Perth Glory demoralises Adelaide United in 5-0 A-League win



Perth Glory demoralises Adelaide United in 5-0 A-League win

Posted

Perth Glory maestro Diego Castro orchestrated a 5-0 belting of a demoralised Adelaide United in Friday night's A-League match.

Castro scored two goals, set up another for Andy Keogh and featured in the lead-up to Adam Taggart's score as Perth climbed to fourth spot.

Adelaide cannot slip any lower on the ladder — they are last — but they plunged to fresh, dark depths in a ramshackle display at Hindmarsh Stadium.

The loss was Adelaide's biggest on home soil, eclipsing their 0-4 result just seven weeks ago against Sydney FC.

After kick-off was delayed one hour because of extreme heat, Adelaide defender Iacopo La Rocca neatly scored the first goal — for Perth.

The Reds' defender inexplicably headed a Josh Risdon cross into the net from close range in the 15th minute — the goal would have been perfectly executed, had it been at the other end.

The own-goal sapped Adelaide's spirit and Perth capitalised in ruthless fashion to bank their seventh win of the season.

After La Rocca limped off with a right leg complaint 20 minutes after his blunder, Castro was a central figure in two rapid-fire goals.

The Spaniard helped himself in the 37th minute — after collecting near the byline, he dodged Adelaide's Riley McGree and then weaved a right-footer into the far-side netting.

Just nine minutes later, Castro tore towards goal after Keogh won possession in midfield.

Keogh tracked his teammate up-field and Castro duly delivered a gold-plated lay-off which the Irishman coolly converted.

It took the Glory just one minute into the second half to extend their lead to 4-0, and Castro was again involved.

The 34-year-old aimed a speculative left-footer across the goal-face which rebounded into the path of Taggart, who belted into the net from five metres.

The Spanish master was not finished — in the 88th minute he drifted on to an Aryn Williams pass for a tap-in which completed Adelaide's misery.

AAP

Topics: a-league, soccer, sport, adelaide-5000, sa, perth-6000, australia