David Cameron's 'cronies' attempt to receive honours in secret
David Cameron's 'cronies' attempt to receive honours in secret 
avid Cameron's 'cronies' attempted to receive honours in secret yesterday after requesting no publicity from the media. Sir Craig Oliver, the former Prime Minister's director of communications, was knighted by Prince Charles during a Buckingham Palace ceremony. sabel Spearman, who worked as a stylist to Samantha Cameron, was also awarded an OBE. The pair had both indicated before the investiture ceremony that they did not want to comment to the press. The former prime minister's "crony" honours list was criticised after it emerged that he awarded a number former aides, donors and senior Remain campaigners peerages, knighthoods and other honours. r Oliver, a former BBC executive, joined Mr Cameron as his £140,000-a-year head of communications in February 2011 after the resignation of Andy Coulson. The awarding of an honour to Mrs Cameron's stylist comes just two years after the former Prime Minister rewarded his hairdresser with an MBE “for services to hairdressing”. Ms Spearman, or 'Bells' as she in known in Whitehall circles, worked for the fashion designer Anya Hindmarch before she was controversially added to the public payroll to run Samantha Cameron’s diary. lthough the outgoing prime minister is entitled to publish an honours list on leaving No 10, neither Gordon Brown or Tony Blair chose to do so. Dame Caroline Spelman spoke of her gratitude towards Mr Cameron for nominating her for an honour but would not comment on accusations of cronyism levelled at her former boss. The former environment secretary, who was made a Dame Commander in Mr Cameron's resignation honours list, said: "It's not for me to comment, it's his choice and I'm very grateful to him for remembering me in his resignation honours."

Isabel Spearman, who worked as a stylist to Samantha Cameron, was also awarded an OBE.

The pair had both indicated before the investiture ceremony that they did not want to comment to the press.

The former prime minister's "crony" honours list was criticised after it emerged that he awarded a number former aides, donors and senior Remain campaigners peerages, knighthoods and other honours.