Miranda Kerr, Snapchat CEO’s Fiancee, Hits Out At Facebook’s 'Stealing' Of Snapchat Features
Miranda Kerr, Snapchat CEO’s Fiancee, Hits Out At Facebook’s 'Stealing' Of Snapchat Features
Miranda Kerr, Snapchat CEO’s Fiancee, Hits Out At Facebook’s 'Stealing' Of Snapchat Features

It’s no secret that Facebook has been adding features “inspired by” Snapchat for some time now. But Miranda Kerr, fiancee of Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel, seems to have had it with Facebook.

Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel and Miranda Kerr had a happy engagement last year (Reuters)

In a recent interview given to the Sunday Times, former Victoria’s Secret supermodel, Miranda Kerr was reportedly quoted as saying: "Can they not be innovative? Do they have to steal all of my partner's ideas?" No prizes for guessing whom Kerr was referring to, obviously.

To be honest, Facebook has been adding a lot of Snapchat-like features on its platform since last year. For instance, Instagram Stories launched earlier in August 2016, giving the Facebook-owned photo and video-sharing site a fresh new glitter -- the feature works similar to Snapchat Stories from which it was inspired from. So it’s easy to understand where Miranda Kerr’s coming from.

Miranda Kerr further said that she was “appalled” by Facebook’s “stealing” of her partner’s ideas -- referring to Evan Spiegel and Snapchat, of course.

Miranda Kerr’s Facebook outburst seems to have been sparked on the back of recent reports that Facebook Stories -- similar to Instagram Stories, and obviously inspired by Snapchat Stories -- is launching very soon on the social platform’s smartphone apps only.

Miranda Kerr has over 8 million Facebook followers, and additionally she have over 10 million fans on her Instagram page -- which is owned by Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook. Yikes!

Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel (Reuters)

Evan Spiegel, surprisingly, has maintained complete silence over Facebook’s current rollout of Snapchat-inspired feature on its properties. But if Miranda Kerr’s reaction is anything to go by, it would be safe to assume that Evan Spiegel isn’t too happy about Facebook’s new features, either.

Leaving Miranda Kerr aside, for the moment, let’s reflect on the fact that Evan Spiegel and Mark Zuckerberg have a complicated history. Zuckerberg’s Facebook tried buying Spiegel's Snapchat for “billions” of dollars back in 2013, only Spiegel wasn’t ready to sell.

So is this Zuckerberg’s version of a hostile takeover?

ALSO READ: Instagram Is Going To Bury Snapchat Very Soon, Here’s Why