Rosie O'Donnell offers glimpse at what she'd look like playing Trump adviser Steve Bannon
Get a glimpse at what Rosie O'Donnell would look like as Steve Bannon on 'SNL'
Pop Culture Rosie O'Donnell offers glimpse at what she'd look like playing Trump adviser Steve Bannon A longtime nemesis of President Donald Trump is eager to play his right-hand man. Rosie O'Donnell has not only expressed interest in portraying White House chief strategist Steve Bannon on "Saturday Night Live," she has even given a glimpse of what it would look like. Text Display Background Enhancements Alec Baldwin to host 'SNL' (but will Rosie O'Donnell play Steve Bannon?) Alec Baldwin to host 'SNL' (but will Rosie O'Donnell play Steve Bannon?) More video Slice Of Orange: Olympians, musicians and Al Roker’s nemesis visit the studio Andy Roddick introduces 2 furry Westminster Dog Show contestants Lena Dunham talks final season of ‘Girls’ (and flusters Maria Shriver) Michael C. Hall of ‘Dexter’ will play JFK on ‘The Crown’ The comedian and TV host, who has been publicly trading insults with Trump for nearly a decade, changed her Twitter avatar on Thursday night to a composite of her face on a picture of Bannon created by Twitter user Jonathan Smith. Dear @nbcsnl I agree with @Rosie that she would be hilarious perfection as #SteveBannon  pic.twitter.com/YQp7S7a5Z9   On the heels of Melissa McCarthy's portrayal of White House spokesman Sean Spicer on last week's "SNL," one of O'Donnell's Twitter followers asked if she might be next to play a member of the Trump staff. @calvininsf - i am here to serve - alec has trump - melissa has spice - i would need a few days to prepare - so if called - i will be ready She then reiterated her willingness to play Bannon. available - if called i will serve !!! https://t.co/LT84EJjfsw There has been no announcement that O'Donnell will appear on this week's "Saturday Night Live." The show will be hosted for a record 17th time by Alec Baldwin, who has regularly lampooned Trump with his impersonation of the president.

share tweet pin email

A longtime nemesis of President Donald Trump is eager to play his right-hand man.

Rosie O'Donnell has not only expressed interest in portraying White House chief strategist Steve Bannon on "Saturday Night Live," she has even given a glimpse of what it would look like.

The comedian and TV host, who has been publicly trading insults with Trump for nearly a decade, changed her Twitter avatar on Thursday night to a composite of her face on a picture of Bannon created by Twitter user Jonathan Smith.

RELATED: Watch Melissa McCarthy's loud and feisty impersonation of Sean Spicer on 'SNL'

On the heels of Melissa McCarthy's portrayal of White House spokesman Sean Spicer on last week's "SNL," one of O'Donnell's Twitter followers asked if she might be next to play a member of the Trump staff.

@calvininsf - i am here to serve - alec has trump - melissa has spice - i would need a few days to prepare - so if called - i will be ready — ROSIE (@Rosie) February 7, 2017

She then reiterated her willingness to play Bannon.

available - if called i will serve !!! https://t.co/LT84EJjfsw — ROSIE (@Rosie) February 7, 2017

There has been no announcement that O'Donnell will appear on this week's "Saturday Night Live."

The show will be hosted for a record 17th time by Alec Baldwin, who has regularly lampooned Trump with his impersonation of the president.

Follow TODAY.com writer Scott Stump on Twitter.