NBA memo urges teams to follow social-media rules in wake of Chandler Parsons, C.J. McCollum 'Twitter war'
NBA memo to teams: Cool it with 'Twitter wars'
NBA memo to teams: Cool it with 'Twitter wars' Draymond Green's triple-double was unusual and valuable Green triple-double historically uncommon in win Sources: Durant hires extra security for return Knicks ban Oakley, fire security chief of MSG Melo: Knicks have to get out from under 'cloud' Dolan: I'll allow Phil to do his job, won't meddle Magic wants to 'call the shots' with Lakers Draymond Green steals the show from Klay Thompson Klay Thompson's heroic Game 6  vs. OKC changed everything Pain in Jimmy Butler's heel lingers in return; status for Sunday unclear 2 Related Q&A: Devin Booker talks Bledsoe, Kobe and being in the zone Jimmy Butler producing at MJ-type level for Chicago Kevin Durant returns with memories, but not regrets What Kevin Durant left behind in Oklahoma City Durant, Westbrook and the NBA's reality TV stars #NBArank Rising Stars: Where does Lakers' Ingram land? Pelton mail: How will Ben Simmons compare to Rubio? Ten (12) things I like and don't like, including the streaking Miami Heat Fantasy basketball forecaster: Feb. 13-26 Jimmy Butler producing at MJ-type level for Chicago Is the Lakers' young core making the right strides? Why we won't stop talking about Lin vs. Kobe 3 Related Photos: New York, Taiwan and the Knicks during peak Linsanity Jeremy Lin is still a symbol for whatever we want him to be What it's like to be called the 'next Jeremy Lin' Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Joined ESPNDallas.com in September 2009 Covers the Dallas Cowboys and Dallas Mavericks Appears regularly on ESPN Dallas 103.3 FM Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The NBA, citing concerns about provoking exchanges between players that could damage the league's reputation, issued a memo to all 30 franchises this week emphasizing rules prohibiting "mocking and/or ridiculing" opponents or officials by official team social media accounts. "While we understand that the use of social media by teams, including during games, is an important part of our business, the inappropriate use of social media can damage the reputation of the NBA, its teams and its players," NBA deputy commissioner Mark Tatum wrote in the memo obtained by ESPN. "Recently, social media postings (e.g., on Twitter) by some teams have crossed the line between appropriate and inappropriate. In addition to other concerns, such conduct by teams can result in 'Twitter wars' between players that can cause further reputational damage and subject players to discipline by the League. "As a result, we want teams to be aware of the NBA's rules with respect to the use of social media by teams. As with in-game entertainment, teams are prohibited from mocking and/or ridiculing opponents (including teams, players, team personnel (including owners) and opponents' home cities) and game officials on social media in any form, including through statements, pictures or videos." The memo was issued in the wake of an exchange between Memphis Grizzlies small forward Chandler Parsons and Portland Trail Blazers guard C.J. McCollum that started with the official Trail Blazers Twitter account posting a GIF of Parsons air-balling a 3-pointer during the Jan. 27 game between the teams. Parsons, who received maximum-contract offers from Portland and Memphis before choosing to go to the Grizzlies in free agency last summer, replied after the game: "Good luck in the lottery show this year." McCollum quoted that tweet and added a snarky one-liner directed to Parsons, who has struggled while coming back from knee surgery this season: "We hit the lottery by not signing you." Parsons later laughed about the exchange and said an apology the next day from Blazers CEO and president Chris McGowan was not necessary, but the league office was clearly not amused. Tatum's memo included three bullet points specifying what would be considered inappropriate material for team social media accounts: Disparage, belittle or embarrass an individual opponent or game official Mimic or impersonate an opponent or game official in a negative manner Criticize officiating or the NBA officiating program "In addition, teams should never disparagingly or negatively refer to an opponent's or game official's personal life, family, race, color, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation or any other status or characteristic protected by law," the memo continued. "Teams are also prohibited from using social media to highlight or encourage player altercations, flagrant fouls or hard physical contact between players, or to condone or make light of violence in any way or form. "Teams may use social media for fun and lighthearted banter that does not reflect poorly on any team, player, other team or League personnel, or the League as a whole. However, such activity cannot become inappropriate or offensive. As such, we encourage teams to properly and extensively train their social media staff members to ensure that they know what kind of postings are appropriate and what kind are not." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The NBA, citing concerns about provoking exchanges between players that could damage the league's reputation, issued a memo to all 30 franchises this week emphasizing rules prohibiting "mocking and/or ridiculing" opponents or officials by official team social media accounts.

"While we understand that the use of social media by teams, including during games, is an important part of our business, the inappropriate use of social media can damage the reputation of the NBA, its teams and its players," NBA deputy commissioner Mark Tatum wrote in the memo obtained by ESPN. "Recently, social media postings (e.g., on Twitter) by some teams have crossed the line between appropriate and inappropriate. In addition to other concerns, such conduct by teams can result in 'Twitter wars' between players that can cause further reputational damage and subject players to discipline by the League.

Editor's Picks McCollum, Parsons get involved in Twitter spat A social media feud was launched Jan. 27 between C.J. McCollum and Chandler Parsons over a video of Parsons shooting an air ball on a 3-point attempt.

"As a result, we want teams to be aware of the NBA's rules with respect to the use of social media by teams. As with in-game entertainment, teams are prohibited from mocking and/or ridiculing opponents (including teams, players, team personnel (including owners) and opponents' home cities) and game officials on social media in any form, including through statements, pictures or videos."

The memo was issued in the wake of an exchange between Memphis Grizzlies small forward Chandler Parsons and Portland Trail Blazers guard C.J. McCollum that started with the official Trail Blazers Twitter account posting a GIF of Parsons air-balling a 3-pointer during the Jan. 27 game between the teams.

Parsons, who received maximum-contract offers from Portland and Memphis before choosing to go to the Grizzlies in free agency last summer, replied after the game: "Good luck in the lottery show this year."

McCollum quoted that tweet and added a snarky one-liner directed to Parsons, who has struggled while coming back from knee surgery this season: "We hit the lottery by not signing you."

Grizzlies forward Chandler Parsons traded Twitter barbs with the Blazers' C.J. McCollum after a Jan. 27 game between the teams. Joe Murphy/NBAE via Getty Images

Parsons later laughed about the exchange and said an apology the next day from Blazers CEO and president Chris McGowan was not necessary, but the league office was clearly not amused.

Tatum's memo included three bullet points specifying what would be considered inappropriate material for team social media accounts:

Disparage, belittle or embarrass an individual opponent or game official

Mimic or impersonate an opponent or game official in a negative manner

Criticize officiating or the NBA officiating program

"In addition, teams should never disparagingly or negatively refer to an opponent's or game official's personal life, family, race, color, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation or any other status or characteristic protected by law," the memo continued. "Teams are also prohibited from using social media to highlight or encourage player altercations, flagrant fouls or hard physical contact between players, or to condone or make light of violence in any way or form.

"Teams may use social media for fun and lighthearted banter that does not reflect poorly on any team, player, other team or League personnel, or the League as a whole. However, such activity cannot become inappropriate or offensive. As such, we encourage teams to properly and extensively train their social media staff members to ensure that they know what kind of postings are appropriate and what kind are not."