Has the 12th Dead Sea Scrolls cave been found?
Has the 12th Dead Sea Scrolls cave been found?


They are the world's oldest biblical manuscripts, yet researchers believe that many Dead Sea Scrolls lie undiscovered.

In the hunt to find the precious relics, researchers have discovered a new cave near the northwestern shore of the Dead Sea.

Although the cave does not hold any scrolls, it contains many hints that it once did, including broken jars and iron pickaxe heads, which suggest looters may have stolen the manuscripts.

Scroll down for video

Researchers have discovered a new cave near the northwestern shore of the Dead Sea. Although it does not contain any scrolls, it does have hints that it once did, including leather binding (pictured)

The cave lies on the cliffs west of Qumran, near the northwestern shore of the Dead Sea.

Researchers from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem's Institute of Archaeology discovered the cave, which is the first found in over 60 years.

Researchers from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem's Institute of Archaeology discovered the cave, which is the first found in over 60 years

Two of the researchers working in the excavation are pictured sifting through dirt and rocks at the site

During an excavation of the site, the researchers discovered numerous storage jars and lids hidden in niches along the walls, which date back to the Second Temple period.

Fragments of scroll wrappings, a string that tied the scrolls, and a piece of leather that was part of a scroll were also found.

The jars were all broken and their contents removed, and the discovery of a pair of iron pickaxe heads from the 1950s suggests the cave was looted.

THE DEAD SEA SCROLLS: THE GREATEST FIND OF THE 20TH CENTURY Discovered between between 1946 and 1956, the Dead Sea Scrolls are a collection of 972 ancient manuscripts containing parts of what is now known as the Hebrew Bible, as well as a range of extra-biblical documents. They were first found by shepherd Muhammed Edh-Dhib, as he searched for a stray among the limestone cliffs at Khirbet Qumran on the shores of the Dead Sea in what was then British Mandate Palestine - now the West Bank. The story goes that in a cave in the dark crevice of a steep rocky hillside, Muhammed hurled a stone into the dark interior and was startled to hear the sound of breaking pots. Venturing inside, the young Bedouin found a mysterious collection of large clay jars, in some of which he found old scrolls, some wrapped in linen and blackened with age. The texts are of great historical and religious significance and include the earliest known surviving copies of biblical and extra-biblical documents, as well as preserving evidence of diversity in late Second Temple Judaism. Dated to various ranges between 408BC and 318AD, they are written in Hebrew, Aramaic, Greek, and Nabataean, mostly on parchment, but with some written on papyrus and bronze. The scrolls are traditionally divided into three groups. 'Biblical' manuscripts, which are copies of texts from the Hebrew Bible comprise 40 per cent of the haul. The Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered in a caves in the limestone cliffs at Khirbet Qumran (pictured) Other religious manuscripts, including known documents from the Second Temple period like the books of Enoch, Jubilees, Tobit, and Sirach, that were now included in the Bible comprise 30 per cent of the identified scrolls. The so-called 'Sectarian' manuscripts - previously unknown documents that shed light on the beliefs of Jewish groups of the time - like the Community Rule, War Scroll, Pesher on Habakkuk, and the Rule of the Blessing, make up the remaining 30 per cent. While some of the writings have survived as nearly intact scrolls, most of the archive consists of thousands of parchment and papyrus fragments.

Until now, experts believed that there were only 11 Dead Sea Scroll caves.

Dr Oren Gutfeld, who led the study, said: 'This exciting excavation is the closest we've come to discovering new Dead Sea scrolls in 60 years.

'Until now, it was accepted that Dead Sea scrolls were found only in 11 caves at Qumran, but now there is no doubt that this is the 12th cave.

Researchers from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem's Institute of Archaeology discovered the cave, which is the first found in over 60 years

During an excavation of the site, the researchers discovered numerous storage jars and lids hidden in niches along the walls, which date back to the Second Temple period

The finding of pottery and of numerous flint blades (left), arrowheads, and a decorated stamp seal made of carnelian, a semi-precious stone (right), also revealed that this cave was used in the Chalcolithic and the Neolithic periods

'Although at the end of the day no scroll was found, and instead we "only" found a piece of parchment rolled up in a jug that was being processed for writing, the findings indicate beyond any doubt that the cave contained scrolls that were stolen.

'The findings include the jars in which the scrolls and their covering were hidden, a leather strap for binding the scroll, a cloth that wrapped the scrolls, tendons and pieces of skin connecting fragments, and more.'

The finding of pottery and of numerous flint blades, arrowheads, and a decorated stamp seal made of carnelian, a semi-precious stone, also revealed that this cave was used in the Chalcolithic and the Neolithic periods.

Fragments of scroll wrappings, a string that tied the scrolls, and a piece of leather that was part of a scroll were also found

The researchers believe the findings indicate beyond any doubt that the cave contained scrolls that were stolen

The excavation was part of a larger project, called 'Operation Scroll', which launched last year.

Israel Hasson, Director General of the Israel Antiquities Authority, said: 'The important discovery of another scroll cave attests to the fact that a lot of work remains to be done in the Judean Desert and finds of huge importance are still waiting to be discovered.

'We are in a race against time as antiquities thieves steal heritage assets worldwide for financial gain.

'The State of Israel needs to mobilize and allocate the necessary resources in order to launch a historic operation, together with the public, to carry out a systematic excavation of all the caves of the Judean Desert.'

The findings include the jars in which the scrolls and their covering were hidden, a leather strap for binding the scroll, a cloth that wrapped the scrolls (pictured), tendons and pieces of skin connecting fragments

The cave lies on the cliffs west of Qumran, near the northwestern shore of the Dead Sea