Jolly LLB 2 Movie Review And Rating Featuring Akshay Kumar, Annu Kapoor, Huma Qureishi
Jolly LLB 2 Review: Akshay Kumar's Courtroom Drama Is A 'Paisa Vasool' Entertainer!
Jolly LLB 2 Movie Review And Rating Featuring Akshay Kumar, Annu Kapoor, Huma Qureishi Summary: , a sequel to Subhash Kapoor's , yet again strikes the right chord in the mirth and emotion department. Two and half hours fly by as you get totally involved in the story of Jagdishwer Mishra alias Jolly LLB (Akshay Kumar), from Kanpur's outwardly mundane life, as he dreams of making it big. Jolly is from a humble background and is more or less a lackey, working as one of the many assistants to a prominent lawyer. Even though Jolly is ridiculed for his ambitions, which seem totally out of place from where he stands, he is shrewd enough to know which path to tread to ultimately reach his goal. All seems well, until  an unfortunate incident and the guilt that comes with it, makes him suddenly change his track. That's when he encounters a morally bankrupt 'supercop' (Kumud Mishra) and his topnotch, ruthless lawyer, Pramod Thakur (Annu Kapoor). Jolly this time is Akshay Kumar.  Jolly is, thankfully, yet again, not a typical Bollywood type chest-beating, punchline-spewing fighter for truth that filmy courts have witnessed over the years. He is just another regular guy who gets to taste defeats more than triumphs, in spite of his razor sharp mind and his persuasion skills. His sharp tongue is his weapon, and he shamelessly and unapologetically uses it to his utmost benefit. Jolly's relationship with his 'Gucci' loving wife, Pushpa (Huma Qureishi) is refreshingly real too. This movie rather bravely takes on the often farcical legal system in the country. This time it takes on the case of a victim of a fake police encounter. Unfortunately, while the film is busy taking on the loopholes of the law, it trips on some loopholes of its own thanks to the script. For instance, Thakur insists on getting a witness go through a narco test, and the results go against Jolly's case. As far as one's knowledge goes, only the accused has to go through the narco test, and that too in the worst case scenario.

Jolly LLB 2 Movie Review And Rating Featuring Akshay Kumar, Annu Kapoor, Huma Qureishi Hindi 3.5/5 Comedy Drama 0 % 0 Votes WILL WATCH (0) MAY BE (0) WON'T WATCH (0) Thank You For Selecting Your Interest, We Have Recorded Successfully

Summary:

Jolly LLB 2, a sequel to Subhash Kapoor's Jolly LLB, yet again strikes the right chord in the mirth and emotion department. Two and half hours fly by as you get totally involved in the story of Jagdishwer Mishra alias Jolly LLB (Akshay Kumar), from Kanpur's outwardly mundane life, as he dreams of making it big.

screen grab/youtube

Jolly is from a humble background and is more or less a lackey, working as one of the many assistants to a prominent lawyer. Even though Jolly is ridiculed for his ambitions, which seem totally out of place from where he stands, he is shrewd enough to know which path to tread to ultimately reach his goal.

All seems well, until an unfortunate incident and the guilt that comes with it, makes him suddenly change his track. That's when he encounters a morally bankrupt 'supercop' (Kumud Mishra) and his topnotch, ruthless lawyer, Pramod Thakur (Annu Kapoor).

screen grab/youtube

Jolly this time is Akshay Kumar. Jolly is, thankfully, yet again, not a typical Bollywood type chest-beating, punchline-spewing fighter for truth that filmy courts have witnessed over the years. He is just another regular guy who gets to taste defeats more than triumphs, in spite of his razor sharp mind and his persuasion skills.

His sharp tongue is his weapon, and he shamelessly and unapologetically uses it to his utmost benefit. Jolly's relationship with his 'Gucci' loving wife, Pushpa (Huma Qureishi) is refreshingly real too.

screen grab/youtube

This movie rather bravely takes on the often farcical legal system in the country. This time it takes on the case of a victim of a fake police encounter. Unfortunately, while the film is busy taking on the loopholes of the law, it trips on some loopholes of its own thanks to the script.

For instance, Thakur insists on getting a witness go through a narco test, and the results go against Jolly's case. As far as one's knowledge goes, only the accused has to go through the narco test, and that too in the worst case scenario.

screen grab/youtube

Even in the dialogues department, there is, disappointingly, too much illogical jeering between Jolly and Thakur in the court, and fewer scenes with a smart, logical war of words.

Akshay Kumar is brilliant, as he consistently and smartly stays true to his character without once resorting to unnecessary hero like behaviour. Annu Kapoor is so convincing as the aggressive, overconfident lawyer that you want to cheer when a tight slap is planted on his cheek. Huma Qureshi gives good support in whatever little she gets to do.

Jolly LLB2 is total paisa vasool for sure. Watch it!

All image Courtesy: Screen Grab from Youtube

Synopsis:

Lead Cast: