College Basketball Player Slaps Opposing Fans for Heckling Him During Game
College Basketball Player Slaps Opposing Fans for Heckling Him During Game
Washington forward Malik Dime didn’t play during his team’s 81-66 loss to Colorado on Thursday night. He was forced to miss the game because of a broken pinkie. But according to reports, he did have an impact on the game thanks to something that he decided to do during halftime. Washington's Malik Dime hits two Colorado students in the face - https://t.co/P4jkSaTLBO  pic.twitter.com/D7HlzmhJKc is reporting that Dime got into it with a group of Colorado students who were heckling him during the first half. The students apparently spent the first 20 minutes of the game talking trash to Dime. And that reportedly prompted him to get up off the bench at the end of the half to confront them. During that confrontation, he allegedly slapped two of them before making his way back to the locker room. First hand account from the student section pic.twitter.com/VoPMtLEu1u Related A Recent History of Athletes and Coaches Cursing at Fans The 50 Most Unsportsmanlike Acts in Sports History The 25 Most Unsportsmanlike Acts in NBA History Following the game, one of the students who was slapped, identified only as Dylan, spoke with about what happened. He talked about how Dime slapped him and ended up slapping one of his friends, identified only as Brian, as well. "We were talking the usual game talk with the players like we usually do," Dylan said. "Malik looked over at us at one point and said, 'I’m gonna come over there and slap the sh*t out of you.' We didn’t think that was real so we just laughed, and then at the end of the half, he came over to us and pretended like he was giving me a handshake and I reached out and he pulled back and slapped me in the face and the follow through hit the person sitting right next to me, which was Brian." "I thought it was a real handshake," Brian told . "He came over with a windup, it was a hard hit. It’s a double face, there’s no way around that." Both students joked about the slap with and didn’t seem too upset about it. Dime also reportedly apologized to the two students at one point. But after the game, Washington coach Lorenzo Romar was asked about the incident, and he said that he planned to look into it further. Asked UW coach Lorenzo Romar about it afterward. He said: "I’m aware of it. I don’t know anything about the details. We will look into it." Washington dropped to 9-15 on the season with the loss to Colorado, despite having surefire NBA Draft lottery pick Markelle Fultz running point for them this season. Dime’s slap is just another blemish on what was supposed to be a promising year for the Huskies.

Washington forward Malik Dime didn’t play during his team’s 81-66 loss to Colorado on Thursday night. He was forced to miss the game because of a broken pinkie. But according to reports, he did have an impact on the game thanks to something that he decided to do during halftime.

Washington's Malik Dime hits two Colorado students in the face - https://t.co/P4jkSaTLBO pic.twitter.com/D7HlzmhJKc — Jake Shapiro (@Shapalicious) February 10, 2017

BSN Denver is reporting that Dime got into it with a group of Colorado students who were heckling him during the first half. The students apparently spent the first 20 minutes of the game talking trash to Dime. And that reportedly prompted him to get up off the bench at the end of the half to confront them. During that confrontation, he allegedly slapped two of them before making his way back to the locker room.

First hand account from the student section pic.twitter.com/VoPMtLEu1u — Jake Shapiro (@Shapalicious) February 10, 2017

Following the game, one of the students who was slapped, identified only as Dylan, spoke with BSN Denver about what happened. He talked about how Dime slapped him and ended up slapping one of his friends, identified only as Brian, as well.

"We were talking the usual game talk with the players like we usually do," Dylan said. "Malik looked over at us at one point and said, 'I’m gonna come over there and slap the sh*t out of you.' We didn’t think that was real so we just laughed, and then at the end of the half, he came over to us and pretended like he was giving me a handshake and I reached out and he pulled back and slapped me in the face and the follow through hit the person sitting right next to me, which was Brian."

"I thought it was a real handshake," Brian told BSN Denver. "He came over with a windup, it was a hard hit. It’s a double face, there’s no way around that."

Both students joked about the slap with BSN Denver and didn’t seem too upset about it. Dime also reportedly apologized to the two students at one point.

But after the game, Washington coach Lorenzo Romar was asked about the incident, and he said that he planned to look into it further.

Asked UW coach Lorenzo Romar about it afterward. He said: "I’m aware of it. I don’t know anything about the details. We will look into it." — Christian Caple (@ChristianCaple) February 10, 2017

Washington dropped to 9-15 on the season with the loss to Colorado, despite having surefire NBA Draft lottery pick Markelle Fultz running point for them this season. Dime’s slap is just another blemish on what was supposed to be a promising year for the Huskies.