The 'Cash Me Ousside' Girl Didn't Get Paid for That Kodak Black Video
 The 'Cash Me Ousside' Girl Didn't Get Paid for That Kodak Black Video
This week, it's been all "Cash Me Ousside" everything. Sure, the meme had been a thing since the fall of 2016, but after it truly went viral at the end of January, the 13-year-old teen behind it, Danielle Bregoli, has skyrocketed. She started out the week getting banned from Spirit Airlines for life after she threw hands with another passenger , but last night, the video for Kodak Black's "Everything 1K" dropped, and for some reason, Bregoli was the star of the show, but she didn't receive a dime for it. According to , Bregoli's camp says she essentially did the video for free. As the story goes, Bregoli was already doing a shoot to promote her merchandise line (that Champion hoodie flip is dope), and it sounds like she needed to get into her zone. The director wisely put on Kodak's "Everything 1K," which seems to have done the trick, because she's in full-on "Cash Me Ousside" mode in the footage we see. Wisely, Bregoli's manager sent the footage over to Kodak's people, primarily because they noticed he hadn't posted a video for it at the time. Kodak, being the wise interneter that he is, knew what time it was, and immediately asked to fast-track this clip as the official video for "Everything 1K." You gotta cash in on this ride while it's still moving, right? If you can't get enough of Bregoli, don't trip; her return to takes place today (February 10). Judging from the preview, it looks like she's in rare form. Hopefully, Dr. Phil is able to get down to brass tacks with Danielle and her real issues.

This week, it's been all "Cash Me Ousside" everything. Sure, the meme had been a thing since the fall of 2016, but after it truly went viral at the end of January, the 13-year-old teen behind it, Danielle Bregoli, has skyrocketed. She started out the week getting banned from Spirit Airlines for life after she threw hands with another passenger, but last night, the video for Kodak Black's "Everything 1K" dropped, and for some reason, Bregoli was the star of the show, but she didn't receive a dime for it.

According to TMZ, Bregoli's camp says she essentially did the video for free. As the story goes, Bregoli was already doing a shoot to promote her merchandise line (that Champion hoodie flip is dope), and it sounds like she needed to get into her zone. The director wisely put on Kodak's "Everything 1K," which seems to have done the trick, because she's in full-on "Cash Me Ousside" mode in the footage we see.

Wisely, Bregoli's manager sent the footage over to Kodak's people, primarily because they noticed he hadn't posted a video for it at the time. Kodak, being the wise interneter that he is, knew what time it was, and immediately asked to fast-track this clip as the official video for "Everything 1K." You gotta cash in on this ride while it's still moving, right?

If you can't get enough of Bregoli, don't trip; her return to The Dr. Phil Show takes place today (February 10). Judging from the preview, it looks like she's in rare form.

Hopefully, Dr. Phil is able to get down to brass tacks with Danielle and her real issues.