Donald Trump adviser Michael Flynn 'discussed sanctions with Russian ambassador' then denied it
Donald Trump adviser Michael Flynn 'discussed sanctions with Russian ambassador' then denied it
ichael Flynn , the White House national security adviser, privately discussed sanctions against Russia with Moscow's ambassador to the United States in the month before President Donald Trump took office, according to reports. Senior US officials interpreted the contacts as a "potentially illegal" signal to Russia that it could expect a reprieve from sanctions imposed by the administration of President Barack Obama, the Washington Post reported. It had previously been established that Mr Flynn, former Director of the US Defense Intelligence Agency, exchanged phone calls and text messages with Sergei Kislyak, the Russian ambassador, and the FBI is examining the contacts. There were five calls on Dec 29, the day Mr Obama expelled three dozen Russian diplomats in retaliation for hacking of the US presidential election. Mr Flynn initially denied he had discussed sanctions with the Russian ambassador, and the Trump administration said the purpose of the communications was to set up a call between the incoming US president and Russian leader Vladimir Putin. But nine senior officials told the Washington Post sanctions were discussed. A spokesman for Mr Flynn has now indicated that "while he had no recollection of discussing sanctions, he [Mr Flynn] couldn't be certain that the topic never came up". Several officials emphasised that, although sanctions were discussed, they did not conclude that Mr Flynn promised to reverse them after Mr Trump was inaugurated. But one official told the Washington Post: “Kislyak was left with the impression that the sanctions would be revisited at a later time." The controversy drew in Vice President Mike Pence after he publicly denied sanctions had been discussed. In an interview with CBS News last month Mr Pence said he had spoken with Mr Flynn about the issue. Mr Pence said: "They did not discuss anything having to do with the United States’ decision to expel diplomats or impose censure against Russia." Following the latest revelations the Trump administration said Mr Pence had been relying on the information given to him by Mr Flynn when he made the denial. t the time of the calls with the Russian ambassador Mr Flynn was still not in office as Mr Trump's national security adviser. A 1799 law called the Logan Act prohibits unauthorised citizens from negotiating with foreign governments in disputes with the US. However, no-one has ever been convicted under the act. In 2015 Mr Flynn was photographed sitting next to Mr Putin at a gala dinner marking the tenth anniversary of the Russia Today television network.

Michael Flynn, the White House national security adviser, privately discussed sanctions against Russia with Moscow's ambassador to the United States in the month before President Donald Trump took office, according to reports.

Senior US officials interpreted the contacts as a "potentially illegal" signal to Russia that it could expect a reprieve from sanctions imposed by the administration of President Barack Obama, the Washington Post reported.

It had previously been established that Mr Flynn, former Director of the US Defense Intelligence Agency, exchanged phone calls and text messages with Sergei Kislyak, the Russian ambassador, and the FBI is examining the contacts.

There were five calls on Dec 29, the day Mr Obama expelled three dozen Russian diplomats in retaliation for hacking of the US presidential election.

Mr Flynn initially denied he had discussed sanctions with the Russian ambassador, and the Trump administration said the purpose of the communications was to set up a call between the incoming US president and Russian leader Vladimir Putin.

But nine senior officials told the Washington Post sanctions were discussed.

A spokesman for Mr Flynn has now indicated that "while he had no recollection of discussing sanctions, he [Mr Flynn] couldn't be certain that the topic never came up".

Several officials emphasised that, although sanctions were discussed, they did not conclude that Mr Flynn promised to reverse them after Mr Trump was inaugurated.

But one official told the Washington Post: “Kislyak was left with the impression that the sanctions would be revisited at a later time."

The controversy drew in Vice President Mike Pence after he publicly denied sanctions had been discussed.

In an interview with CBS News last month Mr Pence said he had spoken with Mr Flynn about the issue.

Mr Pence said: "They did not discuss anything having to do with the United States’ decision to expel diplomats or impose censure against Russia."

Following the latest revelations the Trump administration said Mr Pence had been relying on the information given to him by Mr Flynn when he made the denial.