Half of GP surgeries open for under eight hours a day, Telegraph investigation reveals
Half of GP surgeries open for under eight hours a day, Telegraph investigation reveals
ore than half of GP practices are opening for fewer than eight hours a day - with more than 1,500 opening for under five hours daily, a Telegraph investigation reveals. The Health Secretary urged surgeries which closed early to consider the "severe impact” they were having on the rest of the NHS , which is now under the worst strain in its history. Senior doctors warned that “the vast majority” of practices were struggling to deliver basic care within weekday hours amid rising demand. The Telegraph analysed the opening hours of every GP practice in England, using data published by each surgery. The figures show that in total, 4,208 are open to patients for less than eight hours a day - 47 per cent of the 8,941 English practices listed as active by NHS Choices. They include 3,504 which are open for fewer than seven hours a day. And among them are 1,631 open for under five hours daily. Accident & Emergency waiting times are now the worst in 13 years , with the lowest performance on record against a raft of targets, including trolley waits in casualty units, latest data shows. eremy Hunt , the Health Secretary, urged practices that were not offering a full day service to do more to reduce strain on the NHS. “GPs work very hard but if we are going to reduce pressure on hospitals their services need to be accessible,” he said. “Most deliver just that, not just in working hours but with evening and weekend appointments that are now offered to 17 million people. “But those surgeries that do not even stay open all day need to remember there is a severe impact on the rest of the NHS which expects greater accessibility of services in return for the 14 per cent increase in funding we have promised GPs this parliament.” he worst area was Swale Clinical Commissioning Group, in Kent, where surgeries were open for an average of five hours per day. These short opening times appear to be fueling pressures on Accident & Emergency departments . Latest figures show the local hospital, Medway Maritime, sees just 73.6 per cent of Accident & Emergency patients against a target to see 95 per cent within four hours. In 2014, the hospital was exposed as having waits of up to 35 hours in A&E and the trust - Medway Foundation trust -remains in special measures. Six more areas - NHS Blackburn with Darwen, NHS East Leicestershire and Rutland, NHS Thurrock, NHS West Norfolk, NHS Wolverhampton and NHS Rushcliffe, all managed less than six hours on average each. In total, the seven CCGs with the lowest surgery hours cover more than 200 GP practices. Slightly more than a quarter of areas had practices open for between eight and nine hours a day, the figures show, with the remainder managing at least nine hours. he figures follow warnings that GPs will lose an average of £15,000 per practice if they do not cover basic hours, under revisions to the contract for family doctors. Last month, Theresa May warned that GPs will lose access to extra funds intended for weekend and evening opening if they continue to regularly close for half days during the week. A report by the National Audit Office last month found almost half of surgeries were closed at some point during core hours of 9am to 6pm.  It suggested the closures were heaping pressures on A&E departments, now under record strain. And three quarters of practices receiving funds for extended access were closing up during regular hours, the study found. The British Medical Association (BMA) said GP practices did not have enough funds or staff to stay open longer hours. Dr Richard Vautrey, BMA GP committee deputy chairman, said: “The vast majority of practices are struggling to deliver even basic care in weekday hours and do not have the staff or resources to deliver anymore services. "What these figures don't show is how much better the short term investment could have been used to deal with the day-to-day workload pressures facing GP practices and out of hours organisations.” The figures represent the hours when surgeries are available to patients. rofessor Helen Stokes-Lampard, chairman of the Royal College of GPs, said: “These figures don’t give the full story of what’s happening in general practice – they only take into account surgery time, not practice opening hours. “Obviously, a large part of a GP’s work is seeing patients in face to face consultations, but there is a lot more involved in day to day general practice – and just because actual surgeries aren’t taking place, it doesn’t mean patient care isn’t being delivered via telephone or online consultations, or by making home visits. “There are also vital administrative duties, such as hospital referrals, prescriptions and test analysis that need to be dealt with during the working day, which is growing ever longer for GPs and our teams due to the intense pressures we face as we try to cope with increasing patient demand and complexity.” An NHS England spokesman said: ‘The latest patient survey shows more than three quarters of people are satisfied with the opening hours of their GP surgery but the new GP contract, announced this week, will ensure that access funding for individual practices will not be available where there is half-day closing on a weekly basis.”

More than half of GP practices are opening for fewer than eight hours a day - with more than 1,500 opening for under five hours daily, a Telegraph investigation reveals.

The Health Secretary urged surgeries which closed early to consider the "severe impact” they were having on the rest of the NHS, which is now under the worst strain in its history.

Senior doctors warned that “the vast majority” of practices were struggling to deliver basic care within weekday hours amid rising demand.

The Telegraph analysed the opening hours of every GP practice in England, using data published by each surgery.

The figures show that in total, 4,208 are open to patients for less than eight hours a day - 47 per cent of the 8,941 English practices listed as active by NHS Choices.

They include 3,504 which are open for fewer than seven hours a day. And among them are 1,631 open for under five hours daily.

Accident & Emergency waiting times are now the worst in 13 years, with the lowest performance on record against a raft of targets, including trolley waits in casualty units, latest data shows.