Amazingly, Donald Trump still doesn't know how to shake a hand
Amazingly, Donald Trump still doesn't know how to shake a hand
Donald Trump may be an expert at tweeting, but he hasn't the faintest idea how to shake someone's hand. The latest champion to endure one of the infamously awkward, uncomfortable and visibly aggressive Trump shakes? The Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzō Abe. We feel for you, man. SEE ALSO: Donald Trump is absolutely terrible at  handshakes On Friday morning Abe met with President Trump at the White House, but before the leaders parted ways ... it happened. As the two sat before the cameras, Trump lunged for the prime minister's hand, and before Abe knew what hit him, he was trapped in an absurdly lengthy palm embrace. Relive the cringeworthy shake, pat, hold, shake, shake, shake, pull, pat, shake madness for yourself: pic.twitter.com/OwhUaslnWJ — Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) February 10, 2017 After what seemed like an eternity, Trump finally released his grasp on the prime minister, and Abe (along with all of Japan) breathed a sigh of relief. Abe's face and eye roll spoke volumes, and he looked like he just wanted to get the heck out of there. Trump, completely unfazed, gives two thumbs up. PM Shinzo Abe after Trump handshake: 😵 pic.twitter.com/h0ayPS9pB9 — Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) February 10, 2017 Unfortunately this is not Trump's first horrible handshake offense. The poor form dates back to 2012 , but more recently, Trump caught FBI Director James Comey and even the secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, in his grasp. Pres. Trump greets FBI Director James Comey during First Responders ceremony at the White House: "He's become more famous than me." pic.twitter.com/9Rdgyqi1iM — ABC News (@ABC) January 22, 2017 Say what you want about the size of Trump's hands, but beware. BONUS: Obama's official White House photographer is Insta-trolling Trump

Donald Trump may be an expert at tweeting, but he hasn't the faintest idea how to shake someone's hand.

The latest champion to endure one of the infamously awkward, uncomfortable and visibly aggressive Trump shakes? The Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzō Abe.

We feel for you, man.

SEE ALSO: Donald Trump is absolutely terrible at handshakes

On Friday morning Abe met with President Trump at the White House, but before the leaders parted ways ... it happened.

As the two sat before the cameras, Trump lunged for the prime minister's hand, and before Abe knew what hit him, he was trapped in an absurdly lengthy palm embrace.

Relive the cringeworthy shake, pat, hold, shake, shake, shake, pull, pat, shake madness for yourself:

After what seemed like an eternity, Trump finally released his grasp on the prime minister, and Abe (along with all of Japan) breathed a sigh of relief.

Abe's face and eye roll spoke volumes, and he looked like he just wanted to get the heck out of there.

Trump, completely unfazed, gives two thumbs up.

PM Shinzo Abe after Trump handshake: 😵 pic.twitter.com/h0ayPS9pB9 — Steve Kopack (@SteveKopack) February 10, 2017

Unfortunately this is not Trump's first horrible handshake offense. The poor form dates back to 2012, but more recently, Trump caught FBI Director James Comey and even the secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, in his grasp.

Pres. Trump greets FBI Director James Comey during First Responders ceremony at the White House: "He's become more famous than me." pic.twitter.com/9Rdgyqi1iM — ABC News (@ABC) January 22, 2017

Say what you want about the size of Trump's hands, but beware.