The true story of the five year old who gave birth
The true story of the five year old who gave birth
Weeks later, she gave birth to a healthy baby boy, who she named Gerado after the doctor who delivered him, according to  Lina Medina, the youngest confirmed mother in medical history https://t.co/HsyFhxJjCY  pic.twitter.com/hkGxT1fAMR  Lina Medina, a most disturbing story.  In 1939, FIVE-yr-old Peruvian girl Lina gave birth 2 a healthy baby boy. A medical miracle #amwriting  pic.twitter.com/mlqXm6Y619  Medina lived in Peru, and was born in 1933. Her parents noticed her stomach was growing, and she started getting stomach pains. It turned out Medina had mature sexual organs, and a condition called precocious puberty – where a child’s body changes into an adult’s. It is believed her father committed incest with Medina, but there wasn’t enough evidence to prosecute. Until the age of ten, Gerardo was told he was Medina’s sister. He died at the age of 40 from a bone disease. Medina is now 85 years old, and had a second son later in life.                    Keep scrolling for next article

At the age of five, most of us are occupied by toys and spaghetti shapes. But Lina Medina was just five years old when doctors realised she was seven months pregnant.

Weeks later, she gave birth to a healthy baby boy, who she named Gerado after the doctor who delivered him, according to The Sun.

Lina Medina, the youngest confirmed mother in medical history https://t.co/HsyFhxJjCY pic.twitter.com/hkGxT1fAMR — Old Pics Archive (@oldpicsarchive) January 29, 2017

Lina Medina, a most disturbing story.



In 1939, FIVE-yr-old Peruvian girl Lina gave birth 2 a healthy baby boy. A medical miracle#amwriting pic.twitter.com/mlqXm6Y619 — Enricoh Alfonzo (@Alfonzowords) February 1, 2017

Medina lived in Peru, and was born in 1933. Her parents noticed her stomach was growing, and she started getting stomach pains. It turned out Medina had mature sexual organs, and a condition called precocious puberty – where a child’s body changes into an adult’s.

It is believed her father committed incest with Medina, but there wasn’t enough evidence to prosecute.

Until the age of ten, Gerardo was told he was Medina’s sister. He died at the age of 40 from a bone disease.

Medina is now 85 years old, and had a second son later in life.

HT The Sun

More: This woman has shared the shocking story that left her pregnant with her brother's baby