Detach this Van Gogh action figure's ear and give it to your crush
Detach this Van Gogh action figure's ear and give it to your crush
Here's a great way to win over your crush: take a cue from Vincent Van Gogh and gift them a nice ear. Today Is Art Day is running a Kickstarter campaign to turn Van Gogh, the iconic Post-Impressionist painter who once famously presented his severed ear to a prostitute, into an action figure. SEE ALSO: These artists are painting with ink made from air pollution According to the Kickstarter page, the project's goal is to "make art history more fun, develop a new kind of product for art history fans [and] pay tribute to one of the greatest painters of all time." All noble goals. Also, look at his little sunflower! Image:  Today Is Art Day Most importantly, both of the figure's ears are fully detachable. (If you want to keep your gift to your crush historically accurate, Van Gogh lost his left ear.) If you want a Van Gogh of your own, you'll need to donate $21 to the campaign. And don't delay — it only runs until March 16. Check out the full video pitch below. BONUS: These artists are painting with ink made from air pollution

Here's a great way to win over your crush: take a cue from Vincent Van Gogh and gift them a nice ear.

Today Is Art Day is running a Kickstarter campaign to turn Van Gogh, the iconic Post-Impressionist painter who once famously presented his severed ear to a prostitute, into an action figure.

SEE ALSO: These artists are painting with ink made from air pollution

According to the Kickstarter page, the project's goal is to "make art history more fun, develop a new kind of product for art history fans [and] pay tribute to one of the greatest painters of all time." All noble goals. Also, look at his little sunflower!

Image: Today Is Art Day

Most importantly, both of the figure's ears are fully detachable. (If you want to keep your gift to your crush historically accurate, Van Gogh lost his left ear.)

If you want a Van Gogh of your own, you'll need to donate $21 to the campaign. And don't delay — it only runs until March 16.

Check out the full video pitch below.

[H/T: BoredPanda]