The shadowy Portuguese hacker behind Beckileaks
The shadowy Portuguese hacker behind Beckileaks


The man behind the Beckileaks saga that rocked David Beckham's brand has been identified as a Portuguese hacker who is now on the run in fear of being poisoned.

A shadowy figure known only as John, who works on the Football Leaks website, is behind the expose - and has built up his own cache of enemies over the years.

His sensational email leaks over the former England captain's tax affairs and outburst at the Monarchy sent shockwaves around the globe.

Despite Beckham hiring his own team of security experts to help track his hacker down, he is in a long line, and allegedly behind the Russian, Turkish and Kazhakh mafias.

London-based Marclay Associates have been employed by David Beckham - seen in London today - to try and find out who stole the 18.6million messages and documents

The man suspected of hacking the Beckham account, to the tune of 18.6million messages and documents, has spoken in the past to journalist Rafael Buschmann from the German newspaper Der Spiegel.

He is a man of mystery, and handed over 1.9 terabytes of leaked information to the newspaper - the equivalent to 500,000 Bibles.

Back in May, he and his team took a six month break from the leaking game - over fears of his life.

When he met with Buschmann, he pointed at his beer and said: 'Someone might have put some sort of poison in it. That would be the easiest way to get rid of me.'

John is not his real name, and little is known about him, other than he was born in Portugal, is young, wears ripped jeans and dirty trainers, has black hair, likes a beer and drinks scolding hot coffee.

He sees himself as a Robin Hood figure, and compares himself to Julian Assange or Edward Snowden. He also speaks five languages as well as learning two more, including Russian.

David Beckham has hired top cyber-security experts to track down the hackers responsible for leaking a series of emails that have tarnished his reputation

John has talked extensively with the German paper over the past 12 months, and not willing to lift the lid on how the documents fell into his lap, he said: 'The fans have to understand that with every ticket, every jersey they buy and with every television subscription, they are feeding an extremely corrupt system that is only in it for itself.

'We never hacked anyone, and like we always stated, we are not hackers. All we have is a good network of sources.

'We have very serious, secure sources. However, some of our sources do not realize that they are our source. The important thing is that all our documents are genuine.'

Football Leaks previously revealed Welshman Gareth Bale as being the world's most expensive footballer as well as a host of the sports murky secrets.

The latest is David Beckham's.

In a string of accusations, he is said to have put off a children's charity visit to Downing Street to avoid losing a tax perk and missed out on a knighthood due to a HMRC 'red flag' in 2014, to which he responded angrily.

The charity event was allegedly related to him saying there was a ‘problem’ when he was asked to lead a delegation of 100 youngsters on behalf of the United Nations children’s charity Unicef.

At the time, Beckham was playing in Los Angeles and therefore domiciled in the US for tax purposes.

If he travelled to the UK, it could have meant to pay more to HM Revenue and Customs.

He did later undertake the visit, but on a more convenient date.

It followed revelations in leaked emails that Beckham’s knighthood was blocked by a ‘red flag’ from the taxman to warn there were issues over his tax.

When he found out he had been passed over for the gong, the 41-year-old former England captain branded the Honours Committee ‘unappreciative c***s’ and dismissed lower awards, ranting: ‘Unless it’s a knighthood f*** off’.

A spokesman for Beckham said: ‘This story is based on outdated material taken out of context from hacked and doctored private emails from a third party server and gives a deliberately inaccurate picture.’