Gurugram Residents Come Together To Start India's First Organic Veggies Market
Gurugram Residents Come Together To Start India's First Organic Veggies Market
Gurugram Residents Come Together To Start India's First Organic Veggies Market Gurugram will soon have India's first for-the-residents and by-the-residents farm fresh organic fruits and vegetables market. The initiative which will be called Green leaf India will be launched in association with the Gurugram horticulture department. Green Leaf India is the name of the community of residents enrolled for the city's community gardening project. As of now, there are seventy people enrolled in the project and the department is launching the next phase of the project which has seventy more urban farmers growing organic vegetables and fruits. "We are working on a system where the residents enrolled in the community gardening project will reach out to their friends, family and neighbours in their condominiums through WhatsApp groups for their demand of organic fruits and vegetables," said Deen Mohammad Khan. He added an office will be set up in the name of the Green Leaf India which will have a central order, distribution and delivery system which will take the produce to the consumers. "The whole business will be run by the residents with our support," said Khan. According to the officials at the horticulture department, the community gardening project has received an amazing response from the residents. The department has thus decided to launch the next phase of the project. Many of these community farmers pitched the idea to take their organic produce to more households. "I took this project up because I wanted to grow my own food and also find out if what we are sold in the name of organic is actually organic," said Mridula Singh who is a professor living in Gurgaon and an allottee at the community gardening project. She added that enabling people to buy organic produce fresh from the farms will be a dream come true for her. To make things further transparent, there will also be a source tracking system for the consumers where they can find out where actually their fruits and vegetables came from. Khan said that so many people are duped in the name of organic and on the other hand farmers are being discouraged from growing organic as there is not enough demand in the local mandis.

Gurugram will soon have India's first for-the-residents and by-the-residents farm fresh organic fruits and vegetables market. The initiative which will be called Green leaf India will be launched in association with the Gurugram horticulture department.

Reuters/Representational Image

Green Leaf India is the name of the community of residents enrolled for the city's community gardening project. As of now, there are seventy people enrolled in the project and the department is launching the next phase of the project which has seventy more urban farmers growing organic vegetables and fruits.

"We are working on a system where the residents enrolled in the community gardening project will reach out to their friends, family and neighbours in their condominiums through WhatsApp groups for their demand of organic fruits and vegetables," said Deen Mohammad Khan.

He added an office will be set up in the name of the Green Leaf India which will have a central order, distribution and delivery system which will take the produce to the consumers.

"The whole business will be run by the residents with our support," said Khan.

Reuters/Representational Image

According to the officials at the horticulture department, the community gardening project has received an amazing response from the residents. The department has thus decided to launch the next phase of the project.

Many of these community farmers pitched the idea to take their organic produce to more households.

"I took this project up because I wanted to grow my own food and also find out if what we are sold in the name of organic is actually organic," said Mridula Singh who is a professor living in Gurgaon and an allottee at the community gardening project.

She added that enabling people to buy organic produce fresh from the farms will be a dream come true for her. To make things further transparent, there will also be a source tracking system for the consumers where they can find out where actually their fruits and vegetables came from.

Reuters/Representational Image

Khan said that so many people are duped in the name of organic and on the other hand farmers are being discouraged from growing organic as there is not enough demand in the local mandis.

Hence the horticulture department has also decided to make organic farmers in Gurgaon a part of the venture.

"There are currently around 148 farmers growing organic fruits and vegetables in Gurgaon and they will all be a part of the initiative from us," said Khan. The vegetables will be sold at a maximum of 50 per cent premium compared to the non-organic market prices for fruits and vegetables.