John Lynch's Daughter Cried After Hearing 49ers Hired Dad, Said Team Is Horrible
John Lynch's Daughter Cried After Hearing 49ers Hired Dad, Said Team Is Horrible
John Lynch 's daughter isn't thrilled with his new job as general manager of the San Francisco 49ers. On Thursday, the 45-year-old former safety and Fox broadcaster told NFL Network's Michael Silver about his 9-year-old's hilarious reaction to his new gig running a franchise: "They were shocked but they took it really well. My 9-year-old started bawling, and she's not that girl. She's the one that was always happy. And she was crying, and I said, 'What's wrong Leah? Are you afraid? Is there some nervous anxiety about moving?' And she said, 'No daddy,' and she was sobbing. And I said, 'What's wrong?' And she said, 'The 49ers are horrible.' So, I said, 'Well, I think that's why they hired your daddy.'" Cute as that story is, Leah makes a valid point. The Niners have been on a steady decline in recent years, bottoming out with a disastrous 2-14 campaign in 2016. Lynch will be tasked with rebuilding the league's worst scoring defense and finding a franchise quarterback. Then, and only then, will Leah's tears stop. [h/t The Score ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press

John Lynch's daughter isn't thrilled with his new job as general manager of the San Francisco 49ers.

On Thursday, the 45-year-old former safety and Fox broadcaster told NFL Network's Michael Silver about his 9-year-old's hilarious reaction to his new gig running a franchise:

"They were shocked but they took it really well. My 9-year-old started bawling, and she's not that girl. She's the one that was always happy. And she was crying, and I said, 'What's wrong Leah? Are you afraid? Is there some nervous anxiety about moving?' And she said, 'No daddy,' and she was sobbing. And I said, 'What's wrong?' And she said, 'The 49ers are horrible.' So, I said, 'Well, I think that's why they hired your daddy.'"

Cute as that story is, Leah makes a valid point.

The Niners have been on a steady decline in recent years, bottoming out with a disastrous 2-14 campaign in 2016. Lynch will be tasked with rebuilding the league's worst scoring defense and finding a franchise quarterback.

Then, and only then, will Leah's tears stop.

[h/t The Score]