'Cloverfield' Director Reportedly Offered 'Batman' Franchise
'Cloverfield' Director Reportedly Offered 'Batman' Franchise
Less than two weeks after Ben Affleck bowed out of directing the next movie , there are reports that the franchise may finally have found a replacement. is reporting that the franchise has been offered to Matt Reeves. Reeves has just completed , and also directed the series' prior installment, However, most movie fans will know him for directing the 2008 hit found-footage monster movie . Despite turning down the directing gig, Affleck will still be starring in the Batman movie, reportedly titled . "Performing this role demands focus, passion and the very best performance I can give," he said in a statement last month. "It has become clear that I cannot do both [acting and directing] jobs to the level they require." The movie is supposed to begin shooting in the spring. No word yet on whether Reeves has accepted the offer. He is not involved in the upcoming third film in the universe, , nor has his name been mentioned in connection with any future related projects, of which it seems there will be many .

Less than two weeks after Ben Affleck bowed out of directing the next Batman movie, there are reports that the franchise may finally have found a replacement. Deadline Hollywood is reporting that the franchise has been offered to Matt Reeves. Reeves has just completed War For The Planet Of The Apes, and also directed the series' prior installment, Dawn Of The Planet Of The Apes. However, most movie fans will know him for directing the 2008 hit found-footage monster movie Cloverfield.

Despite turning down the directing gig, Affleck will still be starring in the Batman movie, reportedly titled The Batman. "Performing this role demands focus, passion and the very best performance I can give," he said in a statement last month. "It has become clear that I cannot do both [acting and directing] jobs to the level they require."

The movie is supposed to begin shooting in the spring.

No word yet on whether Reeves has accepted the offer. He is not involved in the upcoming third film in the Cloverfield universe, The God Particle, nor has his name been mentioned in connection with any future related projects, of which it seems there will be many.