Dylann Roof's Lawyers Look to Have Death Penalty Tossed
Dylann Roof's Lawyers Look to Have Death Penalty Tossed
Shares               Lawyers for Charleston church shooter Dylann Roof have filed a motion for a new trial and are looking to throw out the death penalty sentences in the case. The motion, filed in South Carolina federal court, questions whether Roof's attack was plotted and carried out wholly within the state, and therefore not a federal case, as well as whether the hate crimes he was convicted of were punishable by death. "A finding in his favor on this motion would resolve the case, since he would not challenge further the resulting sentences of life in prison without the possibility of release," the lawyers wrote.       Roof was sentenced to death last month after he was convicted of hate crimes in federal court. He killed nine black churchgoers during a bible style at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston in June 2015.  Shares                  Dylann Roof's Lawyers Look to Have Death Penalty Tossed   What's Next in the Legal Battle Over Trump's Immigration Plan   Powerful Quake Kills at Least 6 in Southern Philippines   Obama Hires Agency for Speaking Gigs, Lawyers for Book Deals   American Airlines Pilots Say CEO Should've Met With Trump   Detroit Tigers, Red Wings Owner Mike Ilitch Dies at Age 87   Trump Revives Voter Fraud Claims in Lunch With Senators   NFL More Forceful on Texas 'Bathroom Bill' After Super Bowl   Residents Say 1st Atom Bomb Test Caused Cancer Cases   Museum Shuts Down Shia LaBeouf's Protest Project Over 'Safety Hazards'   Trump: 'Good Chemistry' With Japan’s Leader, 'Getting Along Very Well' With China   Inside Trump's Relationship With Japanese Prime Minister Abe   The US's One-China Policy Explained   Larry Birkhead on What Anna Nicole Smith Was Really Like   Anna Nicole Smith's Daughter 'Fearless Like Her Mom'   Olympic Ghost Town: Bills Due, Venues Empty After Rio Games   Sacrificing California Spillway May Avoid Emergency Releases   How This Polyamorous Couple Plans to Celebrate Valentine's Day   Ryan Gosling Was Prepared to 'Defend' Oscar-Nominated 'La La Land'   Dance Moves for Women Scientifically Proven to Be Sexy

Lawyers for Charleston church shooter Dylann Roof have filed a motion for a new trial and are looking to throw out the death penalty sentences in the case.

The motion, filed in South Carolina federal court, questions whether Roof's attack was plotted and carried out wholly within the state, and therefore not a federal case, as well as whether the hate crimes he was convicted of were punishable by death.

"A finding in his favor on this motion would resolve the case, since he would not challenge further the resulting sentences of life in prison without the possibility of release," the lawyers wrote.

Roof was sentenced to death last month after he was convicted of hate crimes in federal court. He killed nine black churchgoers during a bible style at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston in June 2015.

This is a breaking news story. Check back for more details.