24 Beautifully Stunning Models Who Aren’t Kendall Jenner
24 Beautifully Stunning Models Who Aren't Kendall Jenner
Jasmine Tookes ( @jastookes )  View on Instagram There is no way we could start this article without Jasmine Tookes as the intro. Recently gaining viral attention for wearing the Fantasy Bra in the 2016 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show, this model will only go up from here. Maria Borges ( @iammariaborges )  View on Instagram 2016 was a big year for this new face of Victoria’s Secret. Maria Borges was the first model to wear an afro in a Victoria’s Secret fashion show and has been breaking down walls ever since. Melodie Monrose ( @melodiemonrose )  View on Instagram Melodie Monrose is a high fashion model from Martinique. This 5-foot-10 beauty had dreams of becoming a designer but ended up on the other side of the runway. Senait Gidey ( @senaitgidey )  View on Instagram How can you not fall in love with those eyes? Senait Gidey brings so many diverse looks to the fashion world with her thick curly hair and rich dark skin. Sharam Diniz ( @sharamdiniz )  View on Instagram Well known for appearances in Victoria’s Secret fashion shows, Sharam Diniz not only walks the runway but owns her own hair company . Megan Milan ( @megan.milan )  View on Instagram Megan Milan makes being a college student and a model look easy! Hitting the books, attending castings, and doing shows is one hell of a load. Victoria Lee ( @preciousleexoxo )  View on Instagram Victoria Lee was discovered while supporting a friend at a casting. She left that day with a meeting set up to go over her new modeling contract. Much deserved! Madisin Bradley ( @madisinrian )  View on Instagram Madisin Bradley was discovered in 2008 at a Kimora Lees Simmons luncheon and well, it obviously went well. Tami Williams ( @tamiwilliamsofficial )  View on Instagram Tami Williams is ranked as a Top 50 Model and is signed to five different agencies around the world – it doesn’t get any better than that. Lilian Uwanyuze ( @lili_ann )  View on Instagram Lilian Uwanyuze is a Rwandan model known for her beautiful natural hair. She first decided to go natural after watching Chris Rock’s . Arlenis Sosa ( @realarlenissosa )  View on Instagram We are sure you’ve seen this beauty before. As the spokesperson for Lancome and a previous Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show model, Arlenis Sosa has much to show for her work. Ysaunny Brito ( @ysaunnybrito )  View on Instagram Ysaunny Brito is a Dominican model who was first discovered after her friend secretly dragged her to a casting. Although her modeling career is skyrocketing, she still has dreams of returning home and joining the police force or army. Alicia Burke ( @alicia.burke.14 )  View on Instagram Stella McCartney, Ralph Lauren, and Dolce & Gabbana can’t keep their hands off this Jamaican model. At the young age of 22, Alicia Burke is making moves with top designers all around the world. Crystal Noreiga ( @crystal_noreiga )  View on Instagram Crystal Noreiga first became interested in modeling when she grew up watching . After being scouted she didn’t expect anything major to arise, but clearly she was wrong. Ajak Deng ( @ajak_deng )  View on Instagram Ajak Deng is a high fashion model from South Sudan. There has been recent controversy that she is leaving the modeling industry soon due to racism in the field. Regardless, we still love her and will never forget her work. Amilna Estevao ( @officialamilnaestevao )  View on Instagram Amilna Estevao is a young Angolan model on the rise. At only 17 years old, she has walked in runway shows for Givenchy and Lanvin . Philomena Kwao ( @philomenakwao )  View on Instagram Philomena Kwao became a model after her friend secretly entered her in a national model search competition. Aside from strutting on the runway, she is a writer, humanitarian, and founder of a mentorship program . Elibeidy Danis ( @elibeidy )  View on Instagram A fresh new face – but a successful one to say the least. Elibeidy Danis walked for Burberry in September 2016 as her first runway show ever. Nykhor Paul ( @nykhor )  View on Instagram Nykhor Paul is a Sundanese model who escaped as a refugee to Ethiopia. As a top international model, Paul has used her platform to speak up against colorism and racism in the fashion industry . Sherica Maynard ( @shericamaynard )  View on Instagram Sherica Maynard is an upcoming model that is well known for her appearances on in 2016. She is definitely someone to watch out for in the near future. Tia Becca ( @tia_becca_ )  View on Instagram Aside from her reality TV stardom on and being a full-time mom, Tia Becca is a model on the side. From swimsuits to classy work fits – she does it all. Leomie Anderson ( @leomieanderson )  View on Instagram Leomie Anderson is a British model who recently walked in the 2016 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show. She was first discovered on her way home from school, and the rest is history. Alecia Morais ( @alecia_morais )  View on Instagram Another model on the rise is Alecia Morais. Her youthful face and natural hair have earned her shoots in top magazines like and Duckie Thot ( @duckieofficial )  View on Instagram Duckie Thot gained tons of attention in the fashion industry after posting on Instagram about the struggles associated with being a model with natural hair and dark skin. Today, Thot is happily showing off her natural glow and inspiring women all over the world to love theirs.   30 Dainty Pieces Of Jewelry To Buy Yourself For Valentine's...    13 Romantic Gifts That Are Honestly So Much Better...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

1. Jasmine Tookes (@jastookes) Loading View on Instagram @jastookes / Via instagram.com There is no way we could start this article without Jasmine Tookes as the intro. Recently gaining viral attention for wearing the Fantasy Bra in the 2016 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show, this model will only go up from here. ID: 10426242

2. Maria Borges (@iammariaborges) Loading View on Instagram @iammariaborges / Via instagram.com 2016 was a big year for this new face of Victoria’s Secret. Maria Borges was the first model to wear an afro in a Victoria’s Secret fashion show and has been breaking down walls ever since. ID: 10426466

4. Senait Gidey (@senaitgidey) Loading View on Instagram @Senaitgidey / Via instagram.com How can you not fall in love with those eyes? Senait Gidey brings so many diverse looks to the fashion world with her thick curly hair and rich dark skin. ID: 10426368

5. Sharam Diniz (@sharamdiniz) Loading View on Instagram @Sharamdiniz / Via instagram.com Well known for appearances in Victoria’s Secret fashion shows, Sharam Diniz not only walks the runway but owns her own hair company. ID: 10426388

6. Megan Milan (@megan.milan) Loading View on Instagram @Megan.milan / Via instagram.com Megan Milan makes being a college student and a model look easy! Hitting the books, attending castings, and doing shows is one hell of a load. ID: 10426413

7. Victoria Lee (@preciousleexoxo) Loading View on Instagram @Preciousleexoxo / Via instagram.com Victoria Lee was discovered while supporting a friend at a casting. She left that day with a meeting set up to go over her new modeling contract. Much deserved! ID: 10428578

9. Tami Williams (@tamiwilliamsofficial) Loading View on Instagram @Tamiwilliamsofficial / Via instagram.com Tami Williams is ranked as a Top 50 Model and is signed to five different agencies around the world – it doesn’t get any better than that. ID: 10426522

10. Lilian Uwanyuze (@lili_ann) Loading View on Instagram @lili_ann / Via instagram.com Lilian Uwanyuze is a Rwandan model known for her beautiful natural hair. She first decided to go natural after watching Chris Rock’s Good Hair. ID: 10426439

11. Arlenis Sosa (@realarlenissosa) Loading View on Instagram @Realarlenissosa / Via instagram.com We are sure you’ve seen this beauty before. As the spokesperson for Lancome and a previous Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show model, Arlenis Sosa has much to show for her work. ID: 10426430

12. Ysaunny Brito (@ysaunnybrito) Loading View on Instagram @Ysaunnybrito / Via instagram.com Ysaunny Brito is a Dominican model who was first discovered after her friend secretly dragged her to a casting. Although her modeling career is skyrocketing, she still has dreams of returning home and joining the police force or army. ID: 10426926

14. Crystal Noreiga (@crystal_noreiga) Loading View on Instagram @Crystal_noreiga / Via instagram.com Crystal Noreiga first became interested in modeling when she grew up watching America’s Next Top Model. After being scouted she didn’t expect anything major to arise, but clearly she was wrong. ID: 10426654

15. Ajak Deng (@ajak_deng) Loading View on Instagram @ajak_deng / Via instagram.com Ajak Deng is a high fashion model from South Sudan. There has been recent controversy that she is leaving the modeling industry soon due to racism in the field. Regardless, we still love her and will never forget her work. ID: 10436246

16. Amilna Estevao (@officialamilnaestevao) Loading View on Instagram @Officialamilnaestevao / Via instagram.com Amilna Estevao is a young Angolan model on the rise. At only 17 years old, she has walked in runway shows for Givenchy and Lanvin. ID: 10426789

17. Philomena Kwao (@philomenakwao) Loading View on Instagram @philomenakwao / Via instagram.com Philomena Kwao became a model after her friend secretly entered her in a national model search competition. Aside from strutting on the runway, she is a writer, humanitarian, and founder of a mentorship program. ID: 10428516

18. Elibeidy Danis (@elibeidy) Loading View on Instagram @Elibeidy / Via instagram.com A fresh new face – but a successful one to say the least. Elibeidy Danis walked for Burberry in September 2016 as her first runway show ever. ID: 10426896

19. Nykhor Paul (@nykhor) Loading View on Instagram @Nykhor / Via instagram.com Nykhor Paul is a Sundanese model who escaped as a refugee to Ethiopia. As a top international model, Paul has used her platform to speak up against colorism and racism in the fashion industry. ID: 10426956

20. Sherica Maynard (@shericamaynard) Loading View on Instagram @Shericamaynard / Via instagram.com Sherica Maynard is an upcoming model that is well known for her appearances on Project Runway in 2016. She is definitely someone to watch out for in the near future. ID: 10426763

21. Tia Becca (@tia_becca_) Loading View on Instagram @Tia_becca_ / Via instagram.com Aside from her reality TV stardom on Love & Hip Hop Atlanta and being a full-time mom, Tia Becca is a model on the side. From swimsuits to classy work fits – she does it all. ID: 10428726

22. Leomie Anderson (@leomieanderson) Loading View on Instagram @Leomieanderson / Via instagram.com Leomie Anderson is a British model who recently walked in the 2016 Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show. She was first discovered on her way home from school, and the rest is history. ID: 10426455

23. Alecia Morais (@alecia_morais) Loading View on Instagram @Alecia_morais / Via instagram.com Another model on the rise is Alecia Morais. Her youthful face and natural hair have earned her shoots in top magazines like Vogue and Harper’s Bazaar. ID: 10426780