Everyone’s Freaking Out About Cyrus Beene On This Week’s "Scandal"
Everyone's Freaking Out About Cyrus Beene On This Week's "Scandal"
The Feb. 9 episode of was CRAZY, as usual. We finally got some insight into the details of Frankie Vargas’s death, and unsurprisingly, Cyrus Beene seemed to be at the center of it all. Fitz opened an investigation into the murder of Vargas because of footage Olivia Pope & Associates found in which the late president-elect and Cyrus were fighting. In flashbacks, we saw Cyrus ask Tom to “take care” of a woman who worked on the campaign and who he thought was having an affair with Vargas. It turned out she wasn’t actually sleeping with the candidate, but not before Tom attacked her. Apparently, that wasn’t all the two of them were up to: In addition to being romantically involved, Tom asked Cyrus if he wanted him to help make him the president, implying Tom would kill Vargas. And Cyrus agreed. There were some super intense moments in the episode, eventually ending with Cyrus heading to jail because Tom confessed to the murder of Frankie Vargas under Cyrus’s orders. That also meant that Mellie became the president-elect (at least until next week). People were shocked, to say the least. The last 5 minutes of #Scandal got me like @shondarhimes @kerrywashington 

#TGIT Scandal just got LIT ASF !! #Scandal @kerrywashington Me sitting in bed knowing that Shonda has something planned since things are looking good for Mellie #Scandal Some compared the episode’s events to what’s going on in the US. Liv fixed the country in 3 weeks... meanwhile, in real life #Scandal It's really hard to follow the news if you miss five hours of it but it's also an AMAZING HIGH kind of like absinthe crossed with Scandal. Soon he'll be kite surfing WITH #Obama ! #Scandal #tgit https://t.co/xsVMMsRI72 Others simply couldn’t get over everything that’s going on with Cyrus. When you look up messy in the dictionary you see Cyrus' face. #Scandal Cyrus thinking he was quicker than a trained agent to get that gun... #Scandal This Tom & Cyrus Plotline is too much #Scandal Cyrus jumping to conclusions like... #Scandal It was a roller coaster of emotions. WHY AM I FEELING SAD FOR CYRUS?? #Scandal 😭 When Tom started barking:
#Scandal @bletscher @jscandalp Bark like a dog... a big dog. #Scandal @jscandalp @bletscher @kerrywashington We’ll just leave you with this little thought: never forget cyrus killed his own damn husband... he is a cold blooded manipulator at his core. #Scandal Until next TGIT!   The 13 Most "Um, EXCUSE ME?!" Moments From...    10 Music Legends Who Have Never Won Album Of The Year...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

We finally got some insight into the details of Frankie Vargas’s death, and unsurprisingly, Cyrus Beene seemed to be at the center of it all.

ABC

Fitz opened an investigation into the murder of Vargas because of footage Olivia Pope & Associates found in which the late president-elect and Cyrus were fighting. In flashbacks, we saw Cyrus ask Tom to “take care” of a woman who worked on the campaign and who he thought was having an affair with Vargas. It turned out she wasn’t actually sleeping with the candidate, but not before Tom attacked her.

Apparently, that wasn’t all the two of them were up to: In addition to being romantically involved, Tom asked Cyrus if he wanted him to help make him the president, implying Tom would kill Vargas. And Cyrus agreed.