The dog military kit for pooches on patrol in Afghanistan
The doggy 'military kit' for pooches on patrol in Afghanistan


Smiling for the camera in some rather fetching eyewear, this pooch may look as if he’s about to undertake a skydive or charter a private plane.

Surprisingly, the reality isn’t far off.

Because cocker spaniel Bracken is kitted out to venture out on patrol in Afghanistan, where he may have to help his troops negate machine gun fire and bomb blasts.

Thankfully, the Ministry of Defence have introduced a new doggy ‘military kit’, including goggles, ear muffs and even a bulletproof vest.

Smiling for the camera in fetching eyewear, Bracken may look as if he’s about to undertake a skydive or charter a private plane. But he's actually kitted out for duty in Afghanistan

Cocker spaniel Bracken is kitted out to venture out on patrol in Afghanistan, where he may have to help his troops negate machine gun fire and bomb blasts

And for the soldiers who often rely on their faithful animals to help them negate the pitfalls of the war-torn Middle East, nothing would be too much for ‘man’s best friend’.

The kit, modelled by the five-year-old vehicle search dog, comprises of shatter-proof goggles – dubbed ‘doggles’ – which provide 100 per cent ultraviolet protection and shatterproof lenses.

They are said to be ideal for helicopter landings or patrol in sandy and dusty conditions.

It also includes ear muffs moulded to the shape of the dog’s head, to provide protection from loud noises including gunfire, and a cooling vest that matches a soldier’s camouflage.

The kit is modelled by the five-year-old vehicle search dog Bracken WHAT DOES IT COST? The dogs are supplied with four boots with rubber soles which give the dog a firm footing, while tightly woven air mesh keeps out dirt and debris and keep the paw ventilated. Goggles - £17 Boots - £57 Hearing protection - £48 Cooling jacket - £20 Total: £140

The vest is so light it can be worn under a bullet proof jacket, according to the MoD.

And what outfit would be complete without trendy footwear?

Bracken’s handler, Private Caen Morris, 21, said the pair will be posted to Afghanistan in the next few weeks where they will search vehicles leaving the base in Kabul.

Bracken entered military service in 2013 and trained for six months. He is now a member of 102 Military Working Dogs squadron, based at Sennelager, Germany, alongside 97 other dogs.

Staff Sergeant Baxter, who also works with the dogs, said: ‘These dogs are just as important as the soldiers.

Bracken entered military service in 2013 and trained for six months. He is now a member of 102 Military Working Dogs squadron, based at Sennelager, Germany, alongside 97 other dogs

‘To the individuals, the team dog means absolutely everything.

‘I was perfectly happy to walk where my dog had in Afghanistan, knowing I was going to keep my legs on.

‘It is a huge level of responsibility and a huge level of trust.

‘Some of them are the eyes and ears of the military. Others, such as a search dog like Bracken, are employed for their nose.

‘His great strength is his scent. He uses his nose to detect explosives and weapons and pieces of bombs.’