Rick Derringer Charged With Bringing Loaded Gun on an Airplane
Rick Derringer Charged With Bringing Loaded Gun on an Airplane
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammys 2017: 10 Categories To Watch Led by Pharrell & Kanye, Grammy Red Carpet Casual Style Is Here to Stay Who Should Win the Grammy for Record of the Year? Vote! Rick Derringer Charged With Bringing Loaded Gun on an Airplane  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The manager for rock guitarist Rick Derringer says the artist meant no harm when he brought a loaded gun on an airplane and will work to clear his name. Derringer is charged with having a gun in a secure area at Atlanta's airport. Prosecutors say Derringer carried a loaded gun in his carry-on bag on a Delta Air Lines flight from Mexico but was stopped after landing in Atlanta. A federal air marshal said in court records that Derringer said he often flies with a gun in his carry-on and has never had any problems.  Manager KennÂ MoutenotÂ said Derringer thought he was permitted to have the gun because he has a license to carry one and that he will work with the government to clear his name. Derringer sang the 1965 hit "Hang onÂ Sloopy" and later recorded "Rock and Roll,Â HoochieÂ Koo."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Rick Derringer performs at the Civic Auditorium on Dec. 31, 2014 in Colorado Springs, Colo.

The manager for rock guitarist Rick Derringer says the artist meant no harm when he brought a loaded gun on an airplane and will work to clear his name.

Derringer is charged with having a gun in a secure area at Atlanta's airport.

Prosecutors say Derringer carried a loaded gun in his carry-on bag on a Delta Air Lines flight from Mexico but was stopped after landing in Atlanta. A federal air marshal said in court records that Derringer said he often flies with a gun in his carry-on and has never had any problems.

Manager KennÂ MoutenotÂ said Derringer thought he was permitted to have the gun because he has a license to carry one and that he will work with the government to clear his name.

Derringer sang the 1965 hit "Hang onÂ Sloopy" and later recorded "Rock and Roll,Â HoochieÂ Koo."