Democrats, advocates question ICE enforcement raids
Democrats, advocates question ICE enforcement raids
Democrats, advocates question ICE enforcement raids after hundreds of arrests Updated 0159 GMT (0959 HKT) February 11, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights ICE said "many" of the arrested individuals had prior felony convictions Fear is running high among immigrant communities after Trump's inauguration Democrats raised concerns Friday about immigration enforcement actions in recent days -- though immigration officials say that only routine actions targeting criminals were underway. CNN's Rene Marsh and Ed Lavandera contributed to this report

Story highlights ICE said "many" of the arrested individuals had prior felony convictions

Fear is running high among immigrant communities after Trump's inauguration

Washington (CNN) Democrats raised concerns Friday about immigration enforcement actions in recent days -- though immigration officials say that only routine actions targeting criminals were underway.

Fear is running high among immigrant communities since President Donald Trump's inauguration -- and after the recent publicized deportation of an undocumented Arizona mother of two after a routine visit with immigration officials, reports have been spreading of Immigration and Customs Enforcement stepping up its actions in the southwestern US.

The actions are the first concerted effort by ICE under the Trump administration to arrest targeted undocumented immigrants for deportation proceedings.

It's unclear at this point in the nascent administration whether it was a sign of things to come, or whether the actions were conducted under any different procedures than could have been in place under the Obama administration. It was the uncertainty, the publicity of the raids and the high tensions raised by public comments on immigration by Trump administration officials that had Democrats asking for more information.

"These reports show the serious consequences of the president's executive order, which allows all undocumented immigrants to be categorized as criminals and requires increased enforcement in communities, rather than prioritizing dangerous criminals," California Sen. Dianne Feinstein said in a statement responding to media reports of the stepped up enforcement, including some accounts that the actions were targeting low-priority undocumented immigrants, including family men and women.

Read More