Fifty Shades Of Green: How Fanfiction Went From Dirty Little Secret To Money Machine
Fifty Shades Of Green: How Fanfiction Went From Dirty Little Secret To Money Machine
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Hayley C. Cuccinello       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photo: Pexels.com. Design: Bailey Brautigan (Forbes staff). “Bella Swan is drafted in to interview the reclusive enigmatic Edward Cullen, multi-millionaire CEO of his company. It’s an encounter that will change her life irrevocably, leading her to dark realms of desire.” Sound familiar? The characters are the lovers in Stephenie Meyer’s , but the premise is the same as by E.L. James. The erotic trilogy, originally titled , was posted as fanfiction on Fanfiction.net under the pen name “Snowqueens Icedragon” in August 2009. For the uninitiated, fanfiction is fiction written by a fan that features characters from a particular mythical universe such as a TV show or book. Its cousin, real person fiction (RPF), portrays actual individuals—typically celebrities—such as Harry Styles from One Direction . Though the itself has been dismissed by many as “mommy porn” and “the Great Idiot American Novel,” James is the most commercially successful fanfiction author of all time. After removing references to from a practice known as “filing off the serial numbers,” E.L. James published the renamed with Writer’s Coffee Shop, an independent Australian publisher that was created by fans to commercially publish their work. The results were astonishing. To date, James has sold over 70 million copies worldwide, including print, e-books and audiobooks. In 2013, named E.L. James the highest-paid author in the world , with $95 million in earnings, thanks to her massive book sales and a seven-figure paycheck for the first movie adaptation. In 2016, E.L. James was the eighth highest-paid author in the world , earning $14 million in 12 months, which brings her four-year total earnings to a whopping $131 million. With now showing in U.S. theaters – and hitting the international box office on Valentine’s Day – James’ fortunes will only continue to grow. For better or worse, E.L. James represents fanfiction in mainstream culture. The success of the franchise triggered a gold rush, with publishers clamoring to find the next big thing in fanfiction. James is far from the only fanfiction author to go pro. Before and after rocked the publishing industry, many other authors turned their passion into professional careers. E.L. James is the most commercially successful fanfiction author of all time, but she's far from the only fanfic author to go pro. (Photo by Charles Sykes/Invision/AP) The commercialization of fanfiction began before the internet came into existence, back when E.L. James was in primary school. The roots of modern fanfiction lie in the of the 0s and 80s, though some critics would argue , which predates the TV series by two years, started the movement. Some fanworks featured Kirk and Spock in a romantic relationship, which gave rise to the popular “slash” subgenre. Slash fiction features two or more characters of the same gender in a relationship. "The term slash comes from the way that pairing was written (K/S)," says Flourish Klink, co-host of the podcast. "It was definitely the first widely discussed slash pairing." “Kirk and Spock are the granddaddies of slash fanfic, which goes all the way back to when fans were writing it out and handing it to each other at conventions,” says Andi VanderKolk, co-host of the podcast. Some authors collected their works into fanzines that were typically sold at cost. Many fanzine authors would later find professional careers. Lois McMaster Bujold, writer of sci-fi series the Vorkosian Saga, contributed to numerous fanzines in the late 1960s. Sci-fi and fantasy author Diane Duane, who has authored over 10 novels, previously wrote fanfiction. There are many other examples outside the universe. author Marion Zimmer Bradley not only allowed fanworks but published a few of them in official anthologies. Television writer and producer Stephen Moffat, a former showrunner and current showrunner for , previously wrote fanfiction. “I refuse to mock [fanfiction], because I’m a man who writes fanfiction for a living,” Moffat told last year.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

“Bella Swan is drafted in to interview the reclusive enigmatic Edward Cullen, multi-millionaire CEO of his company. It’s an encounter that will change her life irrevocably, leading her to dark realms of desire.”

Sound familiar? The characters are the lovers in Stephenie Meyer’s Twilight, but the premise is the same as Fifty Shades of Grey by E.L. James. The erotic trilogy, originally titled Master of the Universe, was posted as Twilight fanfiction on Fanfiction.net under the pen name “Snowqueens Icedragon” in August 2009.

For the uninitiated, fanfiction is fiction written by a fan that features characters from a particular mythical universe such as a TV show or book. Its cousin, real person fiction (RPF), portrays actual individuals—typically celebrities—such as Harry Styles from One Direction.

Though the Fifty Shades itself has been dismissed by many as “mommy porn” and “the Great Idiot American Novel,” James is the most commercially successful fanfiction author of all time. After removing references to Twilight from Master of the Universe, a practice known as “filing off the serial numbers,” E.L. James published the renamed Fifty Shades of Grey with Writer’s Coffee Shop, an independent Australian publisher that was created by fans to commercially publish their work.

The results were astonishing. To date, James has sold over 70 million copies worldwide, including print, e-books and audiobooks. In 2013, Forbes named E.L. James the highest-paid author in the world, with $95 million in earnings, thanks to her massive book sales and a seven-figure paycheck for the first movie adaptation. In 2016, E.L. James was the eighth highest-paid author in the world, earning $14 million in 12 months, which brings her four-year total earnings to a whopping $131 million. With Fifty Shades Darker now showing in U.S. theaters – and hitting the international box office on Valentine’s Day – James’ fortunes will only continue to grow.

For better or worse, E.L. James represents fanfiction in mainstream culture. The success of the Fifty Shades franchise triggered a gold rush, with publishers clamoring to find the next big thing in fanfiction.

James is far from the only fanfiction author to go pro. Before and after Fifty Shades rocked the publishing industry, many other authors turned their passion into professional careers.

Kirk And Spock: The "Grandaddies Of Slash Fanfic"

The commercialization of fanfiction began before the internet came into existence, back when E.L. James was in primary school. The roots of modern fanfiction lie in the Star Trek fanzines of the '70s and '80s, though some critics would argue The Man From U.N.C.L.E., which predates the Star Trek TV series by two years, started the movement.

Some fanworks featured Kirk and Spock in a romantic relationship, which gave rise to the popular “slash” subgenre. Slash fiction features two or more characters of the same gender in a relationship. "The term slash comes from the way that pairing was written (K/S)," says Flourish Klink, co-host of the Fansplaining podcast. "It was definitely the first widely discussed slash pairing."

“Kirk and Spock are the granddaddies of slash fanfic, which goes all the way back to when fans were writing it out and handing it to each other at conventions,” says Andi VanderKolk, co-host of the Women At Warp podcast. Some authors collected their works into fanzines that were typically sold at cost.

Many fanzine authors would later find professional careers. Lois McMaster Bujold, writer of sci-fi series the Vorkosian Saga, contributed to numerous Star Trek fanzines in the late 1960s. Sci-fi and fantasy author Diane Duane, who has authored over 10 Star Trek novels, previously wrote fanfiction.

There are many other examples outside the Star Trek universe. Darkover author Marion Zimmer Bradley not only allowed fanworks but published a few of them in official Darkover anthologies. Television writer and producer Stephen Moffat, a former Doctor Who showrunner and current showrunner for Sherlock, previously wrote fanfiction. “I refuse to mock [fanfiction], because I’m a man who writes Sherlock Holmes fanfiction for a living,” Moffat told Entertainment Weekly last year.