PaycomVoice: 3 Things Employers Should Know About Wage Garnishments
PaycomVoice: 3 Things Employers Should Know About Wage Garnishments
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Paycom       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Millions of Americans’ wages are garnished every year, meaning most employers have processed at least one wage garnishment. Creditors and financial institutions now use wage garnishments to collect on everything from medical bills to consumer debt. Debt collectors, creditors and debt buyers file numerous consumer credit lawsuits annually in almost every state. Just as the of wage garnishments has the potential to increase, so does the time it takes an employer to fully execute one. Some interest-accruing orders could leave employers responsible for withholding wages for years. Whether you are processing your first or 50th wage garnishment, keeping these things in mind can help you consistently mitigate risk and reduce your company’s liability: Sometimes, courts accidentally send a writ of garnishment either to the debtor’s previous employer or the wrong employer altogether. If you receive a garnishment order under either of these circumstances, you still answer the garnishment. Specific procedures exist to help employers navigate this situation. Remember, when you receive a writ of garnishment, the issuing court is you to seize property in the form of wages. Failing to properly respond could result in noncompliance with a court order and leave you on the hook for the of the debt. States’ wage garnishment laws differ from one another and from federal law. Understanding which set to follow will ensure you’re accurately calculating garnishment amounts. Generally, you must follow your state’s wage garnishment laws, even if the order originated out-of-state. Federal law provides that no more than 25 percent of an employee’s disposable earnings can be withheld. However, some states allow garnishment of no more than 10 percent of an employee’s wages. Others have rules against collecting amounts that drop an employee’s earning levels below the poverty line. North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas have banned garnishments as a means of collecting on consumer debt. The U.S. Department of Labor advises employers faced with conflicting withholding requirements to follow whichever law results in the smaller garnishment amount. Withholding percentages for these garnishments are different and you must determine which law takes precedence. For example, employers executing withholding orders for child support or alimony must abide by garnishment laws of the state that issued the order the state where the employee works, depending on which part of the process they’re executing. Understanding and following the variances in state and federal laws is crucial to remaining compliant with wage garnishment orders you receive. Processing child support orders takes precedence over all other types of wage garnishments. If an employee has multiple child-support-related garnishments, the most recent support order should be given priority over those in arrears. Other types of garnishments require employers to process existing orders before newer ones. Failure to process garnishments by legally mandated order can result in noncompliance. Carrying out wage garnishments can be complicated. The administrative burden of executing an order can be challenging for employers, considering the margin for error is practically nonexistent. Employers who do not pay attention to the details of each could face penalties for noncompliance. For some companies, outsourcing wage garnishments to a knowledgeable HR and payroll provider is one option that can help them remain compliant, mitigate risk and reduce liability for wage garnishment processed.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Millions of Americans’ wages are garnished every year, meaning most employers have processed at least one wage garnishment.

Creditors and financial institutions now use wage garnishments to collect on everything from medical bills to consumer debt. Debt collectors, creditors and debt buyers file numerous consumer credit lawsuits annually in almost every state. Just as the number of wage garnishments has the potential to increase, so does the time it takes an employer to fully execute one. Some interest-accruing orders could leave employers responsible for withholding wages for years.

Whether you are processing your first or 50th wage garnishment, keeping these things in mind can help you consistently mitigate risk and reduce your company’s liability:

1. You must respond to a writ of garnishment, even if issued to you in error.

Sometimes, courts accidentally send a writ of garnishment either to the debtor’s previous employer or the wrong employer altogether. If you receive a garnishment order under either of these circumstances, you still must answer the garnishment. Specific procedures exist to help employers navigate this situation.

Remember, when you receive a writ of garnishment, the issuing court is ordering you to seize property in the form of wages. Failing to properly respond could result in noncompliance with a court order and leave you on the hook for the entire amount of the debt.

2. Laws for calculating garnishments vary, depending on the type of order and/or the state in which you are located.

States’ wage garnishment laws differ from one another and from federal law. Understanding which set to follow will ensure you’re accurately calculating garnishment amounts. Generally, you must follow your state’s wage garnishment laws, even if the order originated out-of-state.

Federal law provides that no more than 25 percent of an employee’s disposable earnings can be withheld. However, some states allow garnishment of no more than 10 percent of an employee’s wages. Others have rules against collecting amounts that drop an employee’s earning levels below the poverty line. North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas have banned garnishments as a means of collecting on consumer debt.

The U.S. Department of Labor advises employers faced with conflicting withholding requirements to follow whichever law results in the smaller garnishment amount.

Exceptions exist for garnishments that result from bankruptcy, nonpayment of state or federal taxes or a child support or alimony order. Withholding percentages for these garnishments are different and you must determine which law takes precedence. For example, employers executing withholding orders for child support or alimony must abide by garnishment laws of the state that issued the order and the state where the employee works, depending on which part of the process they’re executing.

Understanding and following the variances in state and federal laws is crucial to remaining compliant with wage garnishment orders you receive.

3. Some garnishments take priority over others.

Processing child support orders takes precedence over all other types of wage garnishments. If an employee has multiple child-support-related garnishments, the most recent support order should be given priority over those in arrears.

Other types of garnishments require employers to process existing orders before newer ones. Failure to process garnishments by legally mandated order can result in noncompliance.

Carrying out wage garnishments can be complicated. The administrative burden of executing an order can be challenging for employers, considering the margin for error is practically nonexistent. Employers who do not pay attention to the details of each garnishment order could face penalties for noncompliance.

For some companies, outsourcing wage garnishments to a knowledgeable HR and payroll provider is one option that can help them remain compliant, mitigate risk and reduce liability for every wage garnishment processed.

This article originally was posted on Paycom.com. For more information about garnishments, download this free Infographic: Ditch The Hassle of Garnishments. Or, to learn more about how Paycom’s HR technology can help your business grow, contact us today.

DISCLAIMER: THE INFORMATION PROVIDED HEREIN IS FOR GENERAL INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY. ACCORDINGLY, PAYCOM DOES NOT WARRANT THE COMPLETENESS OR ACCURACY OF THE ABOVE INFORMATION. THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED HEREIN IS PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” BASIS WITH NO ASSURANCE OF COMPLETENESS, ACCURACY OR TIMELINESS OF THE INFORMATION, AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF PERFORMANCE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS, OR FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE. NO LICENSE, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED IS GRANTED OR INTENDED HEREBY. It does not constitute the provision of legal advice, tax advice, accounting services, or professional consulting of any kind. The information provided herein should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional tax, accounting, legal or other professional advisers. Before making any decision or taking any action, you should consult a professional adviser who has been provided with all pertinent facts relevant to your particular situation. Product or company names mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners. This guide is protected by copyright law. Individuals may reproduce and distribute this guide for individual, non-commercial use. Paycom is not responsible for any liabilities that may arise out of the reproduction or distribution of the information herein. © 2017, Paycom. All rights reserved.