A Smitten Sunny Leone During The Shoot Of 'Laila Main Laila' With SRK Is So Damn Real And Relatable
A Smitten Sunny Leone During The Shoot Of 'Laila Main Laila' With SRK Is So Damn Relatable!
A Smitten Sunny Leone During The Shoot Of 'Laila Main Laila' With SRK Is So Damn Real And Relatable Sunny Leone's dream of working with Shah Rukh Khan came true. Her special item song 'Laila Main Laila' became a huge hit and she could not have been happier. In an interview with DNA, Sunny Leone had described her first meeting with Shah Rukh Khan. The report had quoted her saying, Most epic photo which pretty much sums 5years of hard work! Anything is possible! Dream big and work hard and dreams do come true! A photo posted by Sunny Leone (@sunnyleone) on Jan 21, 2017 at 5:39am PST   Okay, wait. That's like all of us (SRK fans) IRL, isn't. The only difference being, we can never be AS LUCKY as her. A video released by Red Chilies Entertainment shows us a glimpse of the making of the song and a smitten Sunny Leone is too hard to ignore. Her excitement when she gets to know that SRK had arrived on the sets and the way she is seen smiling throughout proves that she is a die-hard SRK fangirl, like most of us. Watch the video right here!

Sunny Leone's dream of working with Shah Rukh Khan came true. Her special item song 'Laila Main Laila' became a huge hit and she could not have been happier. In an interview with DNA, Sunny Leone had described her first meeting with Shah Rukh Khan. The report had quoted her saying,

Most epic photo which pretty much sums 5years of hard work! Anything is possible! Dream big and work hard and dreams do come true! A photo posted by Sunny Leone (@sunnyleone) on Jan 21, 2017 at 5:39am PST

“In my first meeting with him, I looked like a mushroom top-head. My hair was like pulled up with all these weird things and I walked outside where we were shooting and he was talking to the director. That’s when we spoke a bit. And then I walked into the van, saw myself and I told myself, “Really Sunny? That’s what you look like. You just met Shah Rukh Khan and you look like a freak.” I was so embarrassed. And this happens to me all the time I meet any famous personality. I either trip over myself or I look like an idiot.”

Okay, wait. That's like all of us (SRK fans) IRL, isn't. The only difference being, we can never be AS LUCKY as her.

Red Chilies

A video released by Red Chilies Entertainment shows us a glimpse of the making of the song and a smitten Sunny Leone is too hard to ignore. Her excitement when she gets to know that SRK had arrived on the sets and the way she is seen smiling throughout proves that she is a die-hard SRK fangirl, like most of us.

Watch the video right here!