Anushka Sharma Slams Media's 'Bogus Claims' About Virat Kohli Producing 'Phillauri'
Anushka Sharma Slams Media's 'Bogus Claims' About Virat Kohli Producing 'Phillauri'
Anushka Sharma Slams Media's 'Bogus Claims' About Virat Kohli Producing 'Phillauri' If you're a celebrity, one thing that's always at stake is your personal life. Privacy is a luxury that's difficult for film stars to avail. Even when they try their best to keep their private life under wraps, media's intrusive tactics and hunger for headlines leave celebrities disheartened and bewildered. Another classic case of false reporting and irresponsible journalism is how reports of Virat Kohli producing Anushka Sharma's film Phillauri started doing rounds. Some love stories last beyond a lifetime! Here's the 2nd poster of #Phillauri @foxstarhindi @OfficialCSFilms A photo posted by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Feb 7, 2017 at 3:57am PST   It's been less than a week since the release of the trailer but some people had a lot of write about the film being financially supported by Anushka's 'rumoured' boyfriend Virat Kohli. Anushka, who has always maintained and graceful and dignified silence could not take these rumours and why would she? When you're investing hard work and dedication to a project, it'd obviously hurt to read such reports. Here comes the bride...in spirit! 1st poster of #Phillauri - releasing March 24! Hope you guys love it! @foxstarhindi @officialcsfilms A photo posted by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Feb 6, 2017 at 12:00am PST   Anushka Sharma took to her social media accounts to slam media and their 'bogus reports'. She wrote a note and shared on her social media account how  “I am more than capable of producing and promoting my own films.” Expressing her displeasure on reading such reports,  she went on to clarifying that the flick is produced by FOX Star Hindi and Clean State Films. In her note, she slammed media for making ‘such bogus claims’. She wrote, “So those TV channels/newspapers/websites claiming anything else, please check FACTS, practice responsible journalism & have some shame. By making such bogus claims and validating this rubbish by your so-called ‘source’, not only are you disrespecting me & the hard work I have put in over the years to be where I am, but also, all the people who have worked on this film. Freedom of press comes with accountability & your fake sources are never accounted for.” Further, clarifying how her career and choices have always been a result of her free-will, she added, "I have always led my career with dignity & often chose to maintain a dignified silence on many untruthful stories, that doesn’t mean you can take my silence as my weakness and say anything without checking with me or my team!" Read Anushka's full post here: Putting to rest some rumours that have been doing the rounds for some days now (1/2) A photo posted by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Feb 10, 2017 at 6:53am PST   (2/2) A photo posted by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Feb 10, 2017 at 6:54am PST

If you're a celebrity, one thing that's always at stake is your personal life. Privacy is a luxury that's difficult for film stars to avail. Even when they try their best to keep their private life under wraps, media's intrusive tactics and hunger for headlines leave celebrities disheartened and bewildered.

Another classic case of false reporting and irresponsible journalism is how reports of Virat Kohli producing Anushka Sharma's film Phillauri started doing rounds.

Some love stories last beyond a lifetime! Here's the 2nd poster of #Phillauri @foxstarhindi @OfficialCSFilms A photo posted by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Feb 7, 2017 at 3:57am PST

It's been less than a week since the release of the trailer but some people had a lot of write about the film being financially supported by Anushka's 'rumoured' boyfriend Virat Kohli.

Instagram

Anushka, who has always maintained and graceful and dignified silence could not take these rumours and why would she? When you're investing hard work and dedication to a project, it'd obviously hurt to read such reports.

Here comes the bride...in spirit! 1st poster of #Phillauri - releasing March 24! Hope you guys love it! @foxstarhindi @officialcsfilms A photo posted by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Feb 6, 2017 at 12:00am PST

Anushka Sharma took to her social media accounts to slam media and their 'bogus reports'. She wrote a note and shared on her social media account how “I am more than capable of producing and promoting my own films.” Expressing her displeasure on reading such reports, she went on to clarifying that the flick is produced by FOX Star Hindi and Clean State Films.

In her note, she slammed media for making ‘such bogus claims’. She wrote,

Clean Slate Films

“So those TV channels/newspapers/websites claiming anything else, please check FACTS, practice responsible journalism & have some shame. By making such bogus claims and validating this rubbish by your so-called ‘source’, not only are you disrespecting me & the hard work I have put in over the years to be where I am, but also, all the people who have worked on this film. Freedom of press comes with accountability & your fake sources are never accounted for.”

Further, clarifying how her career and choices have always been a result of her free-will, she added,

"I have always led my career with dignity & often chose to maintain a dignified silence on many untruthful stories, that doesn’t mean you can take my silence as my weakness and say anything without checking with me or my team!"

Read Anushka's full post here:

Putting to rest some rumours that have been doing the rounds for some days now (1/2) A photo posted by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Feb 10, 2017 at 6:53am PST

(2/2) A photo posted by AnushkaSharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Feb 10, 2017 at 6:54am PST