Anthony Bourdain And Eric Ripert Share Their Best Travel Tips
Anthony Bourdain And Eric Ripert Share Their Best Travel Tips
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Laura Begley Bloom       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Every January, some of the most famous chefs on the planet flock to the island of Grand Cayman for the We caught up with the sharp tongued on the white-sand beach at the Talking travel with Anthony Bourdain and Eric Ripert at the Cayman Cookout, held at the Ritz Carlton, Grand Cayman. (Photo by Jonathan Bloom) Some of their picks might surprise you — and they definitely will inspire you. And be sure to watch the video, above, to see the two best friends sparring and joking with each other. It's a great snapshot of just what it's like to be at the I love the Caribbean in general. It tells the kind of story that I'm always attracted to in food — occupation, invasion, war, displacement. This weird mix of people and the mix of food and flavors. That's a unique advantage. There's a spice element I like as well. Any time chili is involved, I'm a happy guy. Rum Point, home to the Cayman Cookout's Beach Bash. (Photo by Jonathan Bloom) We are in Cayman and we are surrounded by water and fish, and [at Blue by Eric Ripert ] we have created relationships with the local fishermen. At the restaurant, we serve as much local fish as we can. Cayman has a lot of different varieties of fish and seafood that is delicious, from spiny lobster to conch to wahoo. The view from the Ritz Carlton, Grand Cayman. (Photo courtesy of the Ritz Carlton, Grand Cayman) I come down here to not have to put shoes on, so I'm a little resentful every time I have to eat a really excellent meal with fine wines. So the Cracked Conch is perfect. I tend to like my food grimy and shoeless. We are starting to see a lot of farmers on the island, and I think the festival has helped a lot to bring acknowledgement to those farmers. They used to have small gardens, and then they grew because of the hotel and the festival. We find a lot of home-grown vegetables. Right now is the season for pumpkins, and they are very special on this island. Completely different than what we find in the U.S. It's a really interesting mix here of cuisines, high-end, low-end. There are increasingly a lot of good high-end restaurants with hot shots from elsewhere doing food that you would not be surprised to see in New York or London or Paris, for that matter. The exterior of the Cracked Conch. (Photo by Jonathan Bloom)  Havana Club : Communists make really good rum. Flor de Caña is really good, too. I like Zacapa a lot. I am really fascinated by Asia. For me, it's where I have a true culture shock. Spain. Italy. Those are easy, but endlessly thrilling to me. Entrance of Zaid Mosque in Tehran's Grand Bazaar in Iran. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) In the last 30 to 50 years, we have been discovering different food cultures, and today we can not say that French cuisine is the best cuisine in the world. We are discovering different cuisines that are amazing, and we are seeing chefs creating smart fusion. The world is becoming one, slowly but surely. You know where you need to go? You need to go to Chengdu in the Sichuan province of China. The pain threshold there? You're into new dimensions, the next level of spice. It's some serious pleasure pain. The Tokyo city skyline. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) I love Tokyo and Japan in general and also all the regions of Japan. On the map, it looks very small, but it's actually very big as a country. And you find regional cuisines that are very interesting. In Kyoto, I was fascinated by the kaiseki culture. It's a way of being connected with the season that we have lost in the western way of cooking. Even if we think seasonal, we think fall, summer, winter, spring. Over there, it's by the week. Or by the day. For three days, it's going to be that type of flower that they use, and three days later the flower will have disappeared. Three days later, it is a tiny calamari that is red for 24 hours. They're very in tune with the moment. The bright-blue Cayman waters. (Photo by Jonathan Bloom) Aisle, if you've got a weak bladder. Window, if you just want to sleep undisturbed. I'm a sleeper. I want to crash out. I've been doing this for years. I've been getting on planes for 200 days a year. As soon as I smell jet fuel, I'm out. I'm asleep for takeoff. I'm asleep for landing. I'm all about the window. I can wedge my head between the seat and the window during takeoff and fall asleep very nicely. And once I wake up in the air, I go back and as close to flat as the airline allows me. Nobody's stepping over me. And I'm not eating. Do you eat on the plane? Yes. Asian airlines have great food in first class. Ok, Singapore Airlines . I take the aisle. I travel with [Bourdain] a lot. A couple of times, I was by the window, and when he starts to sleep, basically, all his saliva [goes] on your shoulder. And that's the beginning of it. Then he starts to fart. So that's why I take the aisle. I deny this ever happened. It's a lie!    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Every January, some of the most famous chefs on the planet flock to the island of Grand Cayman for the Cayman Cookout. Based at the Ritz-Carlton, Grand Cayman, this food festival is unique in that you get up-close access to luminaries like Anthony Bourdain and Eric Ripert.

We caught up with the sharp tongued author-slash-television host and the soft-spoken French chef on the white-sand beach at the Ritz-Carlton and got them to reveal the places they love.

So where do famous chefs like to go when they want to get away from it all? Some of their picks might surprise you — and they definitely will inspire you. And be sure to watch the video, above, to see the two best friends sparring and joking with each other. It's a great snapshot of just what it's like to be at the Cayman Cookout, hanging out with Bourdain and Ripert in paradise.

What Makes The Caribbean So Appealing?

Anthony Bourdain: I love the Caribbean in general. It tells the kind of story that I'm always attracted to in food — occupation, invasion, war, displacement. This weird mix of people and the mix of food and flavors. That's a unique advantage. There's a spice element I like as well. Any time chili is involved, I'm a happy guy.

Eric Ripert: Curry is something that we find a lot in the Caribbean, and it's very different, depending on the island. Here, they do a very good goat curry.

Bourdain: And conch, cracked conch, and some nice lechon-style pig.

Eating Local The Cayman Islands

Ripert: We are in Cayman and we are surrounded by water and fish, and [at Blue by Eric Ripert] we have created relationships with the local fishermen. At the restaurant, we serve as much local fish as we can. Cayman has a lot of different varieties of fish and seafood that is delicious, from spiny lobster to conch to wahoo.

Bourdain: Other than Eric's restaurant, I come down here to not have to put shoes on, so I'm a little resentful every time I have to eat a really excellent meal with fine wines. So the Cracked Conch is perfect. I tend to like my food grimy and shoeless.

Ripert: We are starting to see a lot of farmers on the island, and I think the festival has helped a lot to bring acknowledgement to those farmers. They used to have small gardens, and then they grew because of the hotel and the festival. We find a lot of home-grown organic vegetables. Right now is the season for pumpkins, and they are very special on this island. Completely different than what we find in the U.S.

Bourdain: It's a really interesting mix here of ethnicities and cuisines, high-end, low-end. There are increasingly a lot of good high-end restaurants with hot shots from elsewhere doing food that you would not be surprised to see in New York or London or Paris, for that matter.

Favorite Rum

Bourdain: Havana Club: Communists make really good rum. Flor de Caña is really good, too.

Ripert: I like Zacapa a lot.

Favorite Places

Ripert: I am really fascinated by Asia. For me, it's where I have a true culture shock. I want to go to Thailand. Burma. There are many countries I want to visit for the food, for the architecture, for the spirituality, for everything.

Bourdain: Vietnam. Spain. Italy. Those are easy, but endlessly thrilling to me. Lebanon. Iran. Amazing cuisine in Iran. We forget that the Persian empire was big and covered a lot of ground. There were a lot of influences. Brazil. Colombia. Peru. It's a big world and it's filled with delicious stuff and on balance, pretty nice people.

Ripert: In the last 30 to 50 years, we have been discovering different food cultures, and today we can not say that French cuisine is the best cuisine in the world. We are discovering different cuisines that are amazing, and we are seeing chefs creating smart fusion. The world is becoming one, slowly but surely.

Bourdain: You know where you need to go? You need to go to Chengdu in the Sichuan province of China. The pain threshold there? You're into new dimensions, the next level of spice. It's some serious pleasure pain.

Japan — A Chef's Dream

Bourdain: Just from the culinary point of view, any chef who goes to Tokyo for the first time, their brain is going to go on tilt. It's as if you're aware of the primary colors, you were taught your whole life that there were a certain number of primary colors. Then suddenly, you go to Tokyo and there's like 15 more. It's so densely packed with exciting stuff. Mario Batali called me before and after he went for the first time. It was quite a few years ago. But when he came back he said, "What do I do now? There's so much more out there than I ever dreamed."

Ripert: I love Tokyo and Japan in general and also all the regions of Japan. On the map, it looks very small, but it's actually very big as a country. And you find regional cuisines that are very interesting. In Kyoto, I was fascinated by the kaiseki culture. It's a way of being connected with the season that we have lost in the western way of cooking. Even if we think seasonal, we think fall, summer, winter, spring. Over there, it's by the week. Or by the day. For three days, it's going to be that type of flower that they use, and three days later the flower will have disappeared. Three days later, it is a tiny calamari that is red for only 24 hours. They're very in tune with the moment.

Bourdain: They're sensitive to degrees of excellence — it's unlike any place I've ever been.

On Travel

Bourdain: Who wouldn't travel, if they could? It's unthinkable to me. Who wouldn't want to enjoy different, new sensations, especially when the world is filled with so much great stuff. I like new things. I like to feel good. I like learning about stuff. It makes me happy. I like being wrong about stuff.

Ripert: The more you travel, the more you discover that the world is beautiful everywhere. And you find people that are nice. Everywhere. And you eat well. Mostly everywhere. When you start to travel, it's endless. You want to do more. It's inspiring. It makes you smarter. You share with people.

And Finally: Aisle Or Window?

Bourdain: Aisle, if you've got a weak bladder. Window, if you just want to sleep undisturbed. I'm a sleeper. I want to crash out. I've been doing this for years. I've been getting on planes for 200 days a year. As soon as I smell jet fuel, I'm out. I'm asleep for takeoff. I'm asleep for landing. I'm all about the window. I can wedge my head between the seat and the window during takeoff and fall asleep very nicely. And once I wake up in the air, I go back and as close to flat as the airline allows me. Nobody's stepping over me. And I'm not eating. Do you eat on the plane?

Ripert: Yes. Asian airlines have great food in first class.

Bourdain: Ok, Singapore Airlines. I'd eat on Singapore Airlines.

Ripert: I take the aisle. I travel with [Bourdain] a lot. A couple of times, I was by the window, and when he starts to sleep, basically, all his saliva [goes] on your shoulder. And that's the beginning of it. Then he starts to fart. So that's why I take the aisle.

Bourdain: I deny this ever happened. It's a lie!

Follow me on Twitter and Instagram and check out more of my work at laurabegleybloom.com.