Church Sign Lists Patriots' Super Bowl Win Among Best Comebacks Ever
Church Sign Lists Patriots' Super Bowl Win Among Best Comebacks Ever
This Cape Cod church ranked the greatest comebacks of all time. The #Patriots Super Bowl win came in second.  https://t.co/lwKhJzkLjv https://t.co/srE9WsBUgk Down 25 in the third quarter of Super Bowl LI , the New England Patriots rallied to defeat the Atlanta Falcons , 34-28, in the first-ever overtime in the big game. Their dramatic win at Houston 's NRG Stadium immediately warranted consideration as one of the greatest comebacks in sports history. One church in Massachusetts thinks so, but it gave the No. 1 spot to someone with far fewer Super Bowl rings than Tom Brady . Cotuit Federated Church pastor Angela Menke Ballou explained the sign, per the 's Steve Annear . "Life, even when it seems like it can't happen, can," she said. "That was what inspired it. We kind of like to find ways to make the Gospel relevant to our time." Although the board didn't have enough room for a larger ranking, the Cleveland Cavaliers and Chicago Cubs may take umbrage with the snub. [ ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Down 25 in the third quarter of Super Bowl LI, the New England Patriots rallied to defeat the Atlanta Falcons, 34-28, in the first-ever overtime in the big game.

Their dramatic win at Houston's NRG Stadium immediately warranted consideration as one of the greatest comebacks in sports history.

One church in Massachusetts thinks so, but it gave the No. 1 spot to someone with far fewer Super Bowl rings than Tom Brady.

Cotuit Federated Church pastor Angela Menke Ballou explained the sign, per the Boston Globe's Steve Annear.

"Life, even when it seems like it can't happen, can," she said. "That was what inspired it. We kind of like to find ways to make the Gospel relevant to our time."

Although the board didn't have enough room for a larger ranking, the Cleveland Cavaliers and Chicago Cubs may take umbrage with the snub.

[Boston Globe]