Thunder Fans Will Wear 'Koward' Shirts for Kevin Durant's Return to OKC
Thunder Fans Will Wear 'Koward' Shirts for Kevin Durant's Return to OKC
OKC fans will have zero chill tonight. https://t.co/8OXfqt3dgI When Kevin Durant returns to Oklahoma City on Saturday night, the Golden State Warriors star will receive a warm welcome home from Thunder fans, who appreciate his years of service to their organization. Just kidding. They're going to relentlessly boo him for jumping ship during the offseason. Some even prepared a special T-shirt for the occasion. The front of the shirt reads "Koward," with the first and final letters in red to highlight Durant's initials. And the cupcake on the back is not a peace offering. Following Durant's decision to join Golden State on July 4, Russell Westbrook posted a seemingly unrelated photo of red, white and blue cupcakes via Instagram . Yet a feature from 's Lee Jenkins later revealed that Thunder players often used the term "cupcake" to call someone soft. So one piece of clothing is labeling the 28-year-old a soft coward for changing employers. : Saturday, Feb. 11, at 11:40 a.m. ET Per ESPN.com's Royce Young, another shirt has circulated referencing Westbrook's claim after Jan. 18's meeting that he and Durant are not on speaking terms : Lots of shirts around OKC for KD's return tonight, but this might be the best I've seen, from @blue_7: https://t.co/tp1jLqcDNh [ ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

When Kevin Durant returns to Oklahoma City on Saturday night, the Golden State Warriors star will receive a warm welcome home from Thunder fans, who appreciate his years of service to their organization.

Just kidding.

They're going to relentlessly boo him for jumping ship during the offseason. Some even prepared a special T-shirt for the occasion.

The front of the shirt reads "Koward," with the first and final letters in red to highlight Durant's initials. And the cupcake on the back is not a peace offering.

Following Durant's decision to join Golden State on July 4, Russell Westbrook posted a seemingly unrelated photo of red, white and blue cupcakes via Instagram. Yet a feature from Sports Illustrated's Lee Jenkins later revealed that Thunder players often used the term "cupcake" to call someone soft.

So one piece of clothing is labeling the 28-year-old a soft coward for changing employers.

UPDATE: Saturday, Feb. 11, at 11:40 a.m. ET

Per ESPN.com's Royce Young, another shirt has circulated referencing Westbrook's claim after Jan. 18's meeting that he and Durant are not on speaking terms:



[SportsCenter]