Seven Business Leadership Lessons From Dwight Eisenhower
Seven Business Leadership Lessons From Dwight Eisenhower
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Forbes Leadership Forum       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Three Days in January: Dwight Eisenhower’s Final Mission Dwight Eisenhower never worked in the business sector. But his leadership principles, cultivated in war and then expressed in the Oval Office, provide a road map for every manager, entrepreneur, and chief executive today. Often we hear of presidents looking to business leaders for wisdom—Eisenhower did that himself. But as I learned while writing my book , our thirty-fourth president has a lot to offer would-be business leaders as well. Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower gives the order of the day, "Full victory, nothing less," to paratroopers about to take part in the D-Day invasion, June 6, 1944. Credit: National Archives. We all know about Harry Truman’s desk plaque reading “The buck stops here.” Eisenhower had a paperweight prominently displayed on his desk with a Latin inscription meaning “gently in manner, strong in deed.” This reflected his philosophy and style. He was not full of bluster. He never threatened. As he said while a general, referring to his more explosive counterparts, “You don’t lead by beating people over the head; that’s assault, not leadership.” One proof of the success of this approach is the common impression that Eisenhower’s presidency was a quiet, unthreatening time. In fact, it was a dangerous period, with a buildup of the Cold War and the threat of nuclear confrontation with the Soviet Union. Eisenhower’s measured way gave Americans confidence that we were on an even keel. His mantra: “Together we must learn to compose differences, not with arms, but with intellect and decent purpose.” Eisenhower once described leadership as “the art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it.” How did he pull it off? By careful organization and a deliberative crafting of words to hit the right note. There’s a reason Eisenhower rewrote his speeches to the point of driving his speechwriters crazy. He knew the importance of words—especially those spoken by the person in charge—to motivate and persuade. He believed in planning. He thought it was dangerous for a leader to shoot from the hip. Noting that one of his predecessors had compared being president to being a quarterback, unable to call the next play until he saw how the last play turned out, he said, “Well, that may be a good way to run a football team, but it is no way to run a government.” The same might be said of running a company. In our business culture, we gravitate to the big personalities, and we’re always looking for the next genius. But Eisenhower appreciated that his greatest resource was not his own genius but the genius of his team. He once wrote this piece of advice: “Always try to associate yourself with and learn as much as you can from those who know more than you do, who do better than you, who see more clearly than you.” And he believed it. He was a collaborator, not a dictator. While always mindful that the final decision was his, he relied heavily on the wise counsel of others. Most of all he relished getting everyone in a room to debate an issue. He wasn’t afraid to hear dissenting voices. This process, which led to success on D-Day, also served him well in the White House. After the Allied victory in World War II, Eisenhower was a great hero who could have written his ticket. Almost immediately the calls came for him to run for president, something he had no intention of doing. He never considered himself to be a hero when compared with the men who landed at Normandy and met the enemy on the bloody fields of battle. Soon after the war, he visited General Douglas MacArthur, his old boss, in Japan. MacArthur, pumped up about their success, crowed that as conquerors either one of them could surely be elected president. It was reported that Eisenhower left that meeting red-faced and angry. He despised the hero label. When years later he did become president, he was often criticized for not being personally forceful or out in front. He was generous about letting those around him take the credit for his ideas. This strategy paid off in loyalty and performance. It’s a great feeling to be in the catbird seat, whether you’ve just won an election or experienced a great success. But Eisenhower’s experience in war and government taught him that things can change on a dime and the mighty can fall before they rise again. When he took office, in 1953, the Senate and House were in Republican hands. Had he doubled down and shut out views from across the aisle, he would have been in for trouble when two years later the election restored Democratic control of Congress. But by then he had already laid the groundwork for working with the opposition. This cautious long game enabled him to get some important legislation signed during his presidency, such as the creation of the Interstate Highway System, which was an overwhelmingly bipartisan effort. In business, as in politics, the long view prevents actions in the moment that can have destructive consequences down the road. When I was researching my book, I was struck by the fact that Eisenhower almost completely avoided criticizing people personally, and he never took cheap shots. He once lectured an aide, “A man will respect you and perhaps even like you if you differ with him on issues and on principles. But if you ever challenge his motives, he will never forgive you. Nor should he.” He understood the distinction between forceful disagreement and an attack on character. Not that he didn’t have a temper, but his brief explosions were more like a passing spring downpour than a steady rain. He had a little trick for handling anger. He’d write down the name of the offending party and put it in an “anger drawer,” banishing it from sight and thought. During the war Eisenhower always made a point of visiting the troops—including spending hours with the paratroopers from the 101st Airborne Division before they left for Normandy the night before D-Day. “I did my best to meet everyone from the general to private with a smile, a pat on the back, and definite interest in his problems,” he said. Part of his goal was to inspire them to fight. But he admitted that he also visited them because inspired to go on. In fact, he believed it was the strength, courage and wisdom he drew from the troops that allowed him to lead. This is a sign not only of his humility—another attribute of great leaders—but also of his pragmatism. He appreciated that the best way to get others to perform to the best of their ability was by believing in them. He knew that a leader is only as strong as those in his command.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

This article is by Bret Baier, the chief political anchor of Fox News Channel and author of Three Days in January: Dwight Eisenhower’s Final Mission.

Dwight Eisenhower never worked in the business sector. But his leadership principles, cultivated in war and then expressed in the Oval Office, provide a road map for every manager, entrepreneur, and chief executive today. Often we hear of presidents looking to business leaders for wisdom—Eisenhower did that himself. But as I learned while writing my book Three Days in January: Dwight Eisenhower’s Final Mission, our thirty-fourth president has a lot to offer would-be business leaders as well.

1. Be gentle in manner, strong in deed.

We all know about Harry Truman’s desk plaque reading “The buck stops here.” Eisenhower had a paperweight prominently displayed on his desk with a Latin inscription meaning “gently in manner, strong in deed.” This reflected his philosophy and style. He was not full of bluster. He never threatened. As he said while a general, referring to his more explosive counterparts, “You don’t lead by beating people over the head; that’s assault, not leadership.” One proof of the success of this approach is the common impression that Eisenhower’s presidency was a quiet, unthreatening time. In fact, it was a dangerous period, with a buildup of the Cold War and the threat of nuclear confrontation with the Soviet Union. Eisenhower’s measured way gave Americans confidence that we were on an even keel. His mantra: “Together we must learn to compose differences, not with arms, but with intellect and decent purpose.”

2. Be a navigator, not an instigator.

Eisenhower once described leadership as “the art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it.” How did he pull it off? By careful organization and a deliberative crafting of words to hit the right note. There’s a reason Eisenhower rewrote his speeches to the point of driving his speechwriters crazy. He knew the importance of words—especially those spoken by the person in charge—to motivate and persuade. He believed in planning. He thought it was dangerous for a leader to shoot from the hip. Noting that one of his predecessors had compared being president to being a quarterback, unable to call the next play until he saw how the last play turned out, he said, “Well, that may be a good way to run a football team, but it is no way to run a government.” The same might be said of running a company.

Watch on FORBES:

3. Know what you don’t know.

In our business culture, we gravitate to the big personalities, and we’re always looking for the next genius. But Eisenhower appreciated that his greatest resource was not his own genius but the genius of his team. He once wrote this piece of advice: “Always try to associate yourself with and learn as much as you can from those who know more than you do, who do better than you, who see more clearly than you.” And he believed it. He was a collaborator, not a dictator. While always mindful that the final decision was his, he relied heavily on the wise counsel of others. Most of all he relished getting everyone in a room to debate an issue. He wasn’t afraid to hear dissenting voices. This process, which led to success on D-Day, also served him well in the White House.

4. Don’t let it go to your head.

After the Allied victory in World War II, Eisenhower was a great hero who could have written his ticket. Almost immediately the calls came for him to run for president, something he had no intention of doing. He never considered himself to be a hero when compared with the men who landed at Normandy and met the enemy on the bloody fields of battle. Soon after the war, he visited General Douglas MacArthur, his old boss, in Japan. MacArthur, pumped up about their success, crowed that as conquerors either one of them could surely be elected president. It was reported that Eisenhower left that meeting red-faced and angry. He despised the hero label. When years later he did become president, he was often criticized for not being personally forceful or out in front. He was generous about letting those around him take the credit for his ideas. This strategy paid off in loyalty and performance.

5. Take the long view.

It’s a great feeling to be in the catbird seat, whether you’ve just won an election or experienced a great success. But Eisenhower’s experience in war and government taught him that things can change on a dime and the mighty can fall before they rise again. When he took office, in 1953, the Senate and House were in Republican hands. Had he doubled down and shut out views from across the aisle, he would have been in for trouble when two years later the election restored Democratic control of Congress. But by then he had already laid the groundwork for working with the opposition. This cautious long game enabled him to get some important legislation signed during his presidency, such as the creation of the Interstate Highway System, which was an overwhelmingly bipartisan effort. In business, as in politics, the long view prevents actions in the moment that can have destructive consequences down the road.

6. Never attack people personally.

When I was researching my book, I was struck by the fact that Eisenhower almost completely avoided criticizing people personally, and he never took cheap shots. He once lectured an aide, “A man will respect you and perhaps even like you if you differ with him on issues and on principles. But if you ever challenge his motives, he will never forgive you. Nor should he.” He understood the distinction between forceful disagreement and an attack on character. Not that he didn’t have a temper, but his brief explosions were more like a passing spring downpour than a steady rain. He had a little trick for handling anger. He’d write down the name of the offending party and put it in an “anger drawer,” banishing it from sight and thought.

7. Be the chief morale-booster.

During the war Eisenhower always made a point of visiting the troops—including spending hours with the paratroopers from the 101st Airborne Division before they left for Normandy the night before D-Day. “I did my best to meet everyone from the general to private with a smile, a pat on the back, and definite interest in his problems,” he said.

Part of his goal was to inspire them to fight. But he admitted that he also visited them because they inspired him to go on. In fact, he believed it was the strength, courage and wisdom he drew from the troops that allowed him to lead. This is a sign not only of his humility—another attribute of great leaders—but also of his pragmatism. He appreciated that the best way to get others to perform to the best of their ability was by believing in them. He knew that a leader is only as strong as those in his command.