Law Enforcement K-9 Can't Hide How Much He Loves His Partner
Law Enforcement K-9 Can't Hide How Much He Loves His Partner
You may not be able to tell by the picture above, but Officer Levi Knach and his K-9 partner Kenobi “ enforce the law with a vengeance ,” according to Indiana’s Department of Natural Resources Law Enforcement. Now, if they could only get Kenobi to sit still for just a second to get that point across. Indiana State Parks posted the super-serious, not-at-all playful portraits of Knach and Kenobi on its Facebook page on Wednesday , and the internet collectively “awwwww’d” at how much the K-9 uncontrollably loves his partner. While Kenobi may be cute, Indiana State Parks warns: “ Make no mistake ― he is a trained working officer and can track people and locate a variety of objects ranging from venison to ginseng.” As seen in the photos, posted to Reddit’s r/aww subreddit with more than 53,000 upvotes, Kenobi eventually held it together long enough for a photographer to take an official law enforcement officer portrait worthy of his badge and ranking. But he’s not fooling anyone. We all now know there’s a cuddle monster underneath that Labrador’s stone face. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Police Dogs In Action       Share this slide:       MORE:

You may not be able to tell by the picture above, but Officer Levi Knach and his K-9 partner Kenobi “enforce the law with a vengeance,” according to Indiana’s Department of Natural Resources Law Enforcement.

Now, if they could only get Kenobi to sit still for just a second to get that point across.

Indiana State Parks posted the super-serious, not-at-all playful portraits of Knach and Kenobi on its Facebook page on Wednesday, and the internet collectively “awwwww’d” at how much the K-9 uncontrollably loves his partner.

While Kenobi may be cute, Indiana State Parks warns: “Make no mistake ― he is a trained working officer and can track people and locate a variety of objects ranging from venison to ginseng.”

As seen in the photos, posted to Reddit’s r/aww subreddit with more than 53,000 upvotes, Kenobi eventually held it together long enough for a photographer to take an official law enforcement officer portrait worthy of his badge and ranking.

But he’s not fooling anyone. We all now know there’s a cuddle monster underneath that Labrador’s stone face.