7 Languages Apart From English You Must Learn Because Of Their 'Usefulness'
7 Languages Apart From English You Must Learn Because Of Their 'Usefulness'
7 Languages Apart From English You Must Learn Because Of Their 'Usefulness' We only face a language barrier when we travel to different countries. It is there that English doesn’t help you much as the locals are only adept with their own language. Learning a new language opens a new horizons for people who take efforts to learn.  Languages just flow; they don’t follow a textbook format. Even if they do, it’s just for the basic, but once you master it, it becomes a skill. Just like knowing how to cook, learning a language is also considered life’s basic skills. So here are seven languages apart from English and your mother tongue which you ought to learn for gaining an upper hand over others. 1. Mandarin Since it’s the most widely spoken language in the world, you ought to learn Mandarin (Chinese). However, it is one difficult language to master. Mandarin is more of a tonal language with pictograms, which demands a lot of attention once you start learning them. The language has approximately 1.2 billion native speakers. 2. Spanish The reason you need to learn Espanol is that almost 20 countries speak Spanish and consider this language as their official language. The most South and Central America is occupied by Spanish speakers. The language changes from region to region i.e. the Spanish spoken in Brazil is different from Spanish spoken in Portugal. 3. Arabic Arabic has around 250 million native speakers around the world. Arabic as a language differs from its respective dialect. For instance, Modern Standard Arabic is different from the Classic Arabic of the Quran. The spoken forms of Arabic, just like Spanish differ from country to country. The local dialect in Oman is not the same in Morocco. 4. Bengali Bengali has a tough history as the partition of Bengal by the British in the year 1947 has divided the language too. The language spoken in West Bengal, India is different from the language spoken in East Bengal, which is Bangladesh today. The Bangladeshi accent is far less formal than the Indian Bengali.  The reason the language makes it to the list is because around 200 million people speak Bengali across the world. 5. Russian

We only face a language barrier when we travel to different countries. It is there that English doesn’t help you much as the locals are only adept with their own language. Learning a new language opens a new horizons for people who take efforts to learn. Languages just flow; they don’t follow a textbook format. Even if they do, it’s just for the basic, but once you master it, it becomes a skill. Just like knowing how to cook, learning a language is also considered life’s basic skills.

So here are seven languages apart from English and your mother tongue which you ought to learn for gaining an upper hand over others.

1. Mandarin

Image Credit: chineseinkenya.wordpress

Since it’s the most widely spoken language in the world, you ought to learn Mandarin (Chinese). However, it is one difficult language to master. Mandarin is more of a tonal language with pictograms, which demands a lot of attention once you start learning them. The language has approximately 1.2 billion native speakers.

2. Spanish

Image Credit: ISOW

The reason you need to learn Espanol is that almost 20 countries speak Spanish and consider this language as their official language. The most South and Central America is occupied by Spanish speakers. The language changes from region to region i.e. the Spanish spoken in Brazil is different from Spanish spoken in Portugal.

3. Arabic

Image Credit: foreignpolicyjournal

Arabic has around 250 million native speakers around the world. Arabic as a language differs from its respective dialect. For instance, Modern Standard Arabic is different from the Classic Arabic of the Quran. The spoken forms of Arabic, just like Spanish differ from country to country. The local dialect in Oman is not the same in Morocco.

4. Bengali

Image Credit: informertechnology

Bengali has a tough history as the partition of Bengal by the British in the year 1947 has divided the language too. The language spoken in West Bengal, India is different from the language spoken in East Bengal, which is Bangladesh today. The Bangladeshi accent is far less formal than the Indian Bengali. The reason the language makes it to the list is because around 200 million people speak Bengali across the world.

5. Russian

Image Credit: mirte.tv

This East Slavic language is the most geographically widespread language of Eurasia and the most widely spoken of the Slavic languages. It is also the largest native language in Europe, with 144 million native speakers in Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. Known for its difficult grammar and elegant Cyrillic script, Russian has a history of literary stalwarts such as Dostoyevsky, Nabokov, Chekhov, Tolstoy and Pushkin.

6. Japanese

Image Credit: hokaido university

If you don’t know Japanese and Chinese, then you’re bound to get confused between the two. However, both the languages are different as chalk and cheese. Japanese has no genetic relationship with Chinese, but it does makes extensive use of Chinese characters, or kanji in its writing system, and a large portion of its vocabulary is borrowed from Chinese. But then again, German and Portuguese have a lot of common words and they are very different languages.

7. German

Image Credit: makeitingermany

That’s because if you’re business-minded then German would help you a lot to understand the economy. Since German is home to many international corporations and technologies, learning German would help you to improve your professional relationship. The language is the most widely spoken native language in Europe. So, if you ever decide to take a Europe trip, German would surely help you.