Jordanian pilot burned alive by ISIS in cage 'had no idea'
Pilot burned alive by ISIS 'had no idea he was about to be executed'


Moaz al-Kasasbeh was slaughtered on camera by Islamic State thugs

The Jordanian air force pilot filmed being burned to death by Islamic State extremists was unaware that he was about to be brutally set on fire until militant thugs poured petrol over him, a former militant involved in his death has confirmed.

Moaz al-Kasasbeh was slaughtered on camera by Islamic State thugs who locked him in a cage before setting him alight.

'We filmed him on the site of where he was going to be executed and zoomed in on his face, but at that time he didn't know we were planning to set him alight,' the anonymous jihadist said.

'We also filmed the fighters, who were standing on guard,' he added, speaking in a documentary that aired on Al Arabiya this week.

Titled 'Healing the Believers' Chests', the 22-minute film, which was released by Islamic State two years ago, showed the captured airman walking alone in front of masked fighters, and locked in a cage before a trail of petrol leading up to its bars is set alight.

The militant said that the 22-year-old airman only realised what was about to happen when he was drenched in petrol by ISIS thugs.

The video showed the captured airman locked in a cage before a trail of petrol leading up to its bars is set alight

The video shows one of the ISIS brutes lighting a torch and igniting a trail of gasoline

An anonymous militant has confirmed that the 22-year-old airman only realised what was about to happen when he was drenched in petrol

Reports at the time said al-Kasasbeh was plied with drugs so that he did not scream as flames consumed his body during his grotesque execution.

The extremist revealed the elaborate set-up used by Islamic State to film the execution, saying that four different cameras had been used to record the horrific event from different angles.

In the high-quality film, dramatic music plays in the background moments before al-Kaseasbeh is cruelly set on fire.

The video shows one of the ISIS brutes lighting a torch and igniting a trail of gasoline, which leads to the young pilot's cage.

The heart-wrenching footage shows the airman collapsing to his knees and screaming in pain as he is engulfed by the flames.

The murdered airman's wife Anwar Tarawneh holds a photo of him taken before his grotesque execution was confirmed, left, and is consoled by Queen Rania of Jordan, right, after the brutal video was released by Islamic State

Officials believe Kasasbeh had been killed almost one month before the video was made public on September 3, 2015, despite ISIS attempting to carry out a prisoner exchange in return for the captured pilot.

After the footage was released, Jordanian officials promised to retaliate harshly and quickly executed two Iraqi militants connected with ISIS.

They included Sajida al-Rishawi, the female would-be suicide bomber whose freedom ISIS had originally demanded in exchange for releasing Kasasbeh.

Jordan's King Abdullah II pledged to hit the militants 'hard in the very centre of their strongholds' following al-Kasasbeh's death.

He said Jordan's response would 'be harsh because this terrorist organisation is not only fighting us, but also fighting Islam and its pure values.'