Dry cleaners 'gave away' this woman's wedding dress - can you help track it down?
Dry cleaners 'gave away' this woman's wedding dress - can you help track it down?
Scottish woman is seeking the internet's help to track down a much-loved wedding dress that has been in her family for generations. Tess Newall, 29, a set designer from Haddington in East Lothian, wore the dress for her wedding last year. It was made by her great, great grandmother Dora Torin, who wore it at her marriage in 1870 to hat-maker Ernest. Dora's daughter then passed it on to Tess, who wore it at the service in the parish of Morham. “The dress was one of the most special things about the day," Tess told MailOnline , adding: "it made it complete and I was overjoyed to have been able to wear such a beautiful family heirloom.” fter her wedding in June she took it to Kleen Cleaners in Edinburgh to be cleaned - but when her father went to pick it up he discovered the shop had gone in to administration, and the dress was no longer there. Tess fears the heirloom has been sold on, and has posted an appeal on Facebook in the hope of tracking it down. Alongside a photo of her wearing the dress she writes: "Please share this far and wide in case anyone stumbles across it! I realise there are far greater issues in the world but it means the world to us. More family memories need to be woven into its threads. Thank you so so much." Her post has been shared thousands of times in just a few hours, and some commenters have already stepped forward believing they could have information that will help track the dress down. “I don’t want any kind of witch hunt against the company," Tess told the Mail, "the only thing that matters to me is getting my dress back.” To see the full appeal, visit Tess's Facebook page .

After her wedding in June she took it to Kleen Cleaners in Edinburgh to be cleaned - but when her father went to pick it up he discovered the shop had gone in to administration, and the dress was no longer there.

Tess fears the heirloom has been sold on, and has posted an appeal on Facebook in the hope of tracking it down.

Alongside a photo of her wearing the dress she writes: "Please share this far and wide in case anyone stumbles across it! I realise there are far greater issues in the world but it means the world to us. More family memories need to be woven into its threads. Thank you so so much."

Her post has been shared thousands of times in just a few hours, and some commenters have already stepped forward believing they could have information that will help track the dress down.

“I don’t want any kind of witch hunt against the company," Tess told the Mail, "the only thing that matters to me is getting my dress back.”

To see the full appeal, visit Tess's Facebook page.