A ‘Firefly’ Reboot Could Happen If This One Person Is On Board
A ‘Firefly’ Reboot Could Happen If This One Person Is On Board
“Firefly” fans, get ready to set your hearts aflutter. David Madden, Fox Broadcasting’s president of entertainment, said he’d be open to a Firefly reboot under one specific condition. Madden told Rotten Tomatoes during a CA 2017 panel that he’d only do it if Joss Whedon, creator of “Firefly” and writer/director on “The Avengers” and “Avengers: Age of Ultron,”  is involved. The outlet also notes that Madden thinks Whedon is too busy to help revive the beloved sci-fi western, however. Whedon’s current projects include ABC’s “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” which he also created, and is apparently writing some sort of World War II-era slasher flick . But according to Alan Tudyk, who played Hoban “Wash” Washburne on “Firefly,” Whedon has expressed interest in reviving the series in the past. “Not only is there a want from fans, but there’s a want from Joss [Whedon], and from Nathan [Fillion], certainly, and the cast,” Tudyk told Hypable in 2013. Whedon also told the Toronto Sun in 2013 that he never quite got over the cancellation of “Firefly,” which only lasted a season on Fox in 2002, but was revived into the movie “Serenity” in 2005. “I’ll never really accept it,” Whedon told the Sun. “And I always, in the back of my head, think, ‘What if I could get the old gang back together? ... It’s something I would love to do.” Fingers crossed, guys! ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

“Firefly” fans, get ready to set your hearts aflutter.

David Madden, Fox Broadcasting’s president of entertainment, said he’d be open to a Firefly reboot under one specific condition. Madden told Rotten Tomatoes during a CA 2017 panel that he’d only do it if Joss Whedon, creator of “Firefly” and writer/director on “The Avengers” and “Avengers: Age of Ultron,” is involved.

The outlet also notes that Madden thinks Whedon is too busy to help revive the beloved sci-fi western, however.

Whedon’s current projects include ABC’s “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” which he also created, and is apparently writing some sort of World War II-era slasher flick. But according to Alan Tudyk, who played Hoban “Wash” Washburne on “Firefly,” Whedon has expressed interest in reviving the series in the past.

“Not only is there a want from fans, but there’s a want from Joss [Whedon], and from Nathan [Fillion], certainly, and the cast,” Tudyk told Hypable in 2013.

Whedon also told the Toronto Sun in 2013 that he never quite got over the cancellation of “Firefly,” which only lasted a season on Fox in 2002, but was revived into the movie “Serenity” in 2005.

“I’ll never really accept it,” Whedon told the Sun. “And I always, in the back of my head, think, ‘What if I could get the old gang back together? ... It’s something I would love to do.”