13 Things to Know About the Charts This Week: Katy Perry's 'Rhythm' Already No. 1 on Trending 140
13 Things to Know About the Charts This Week: Katy Perry's 'Rhythm' Already No. 1 on Trending 140
Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammy Awards 2017: What Each Album of the Year Nominee Win Would Mean Grammys Add First Man, Transgender Woman as Trophy Presenters Which Grammy Performance Are You Most Excited For? Vote! 13 Things to Know About the Charts This Week: Katy Perry's 'Rhythm' Already No. 1 on Trending 140  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Three weeks after his No. 1 debut on the Billboard Hot 100 , Ed Sheeran returns to the top spot with "Shape of You" (on the chart dated Feb. 18), as Migos ' "Bad and Boujee" dips to No. 2 after three nonconsecutive weeks at No. 1. Still, Migos debut at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 , as their second studio album, , arrives as their first leader on the list. Here are 13 other things you need to know about 's charts this week:  1. with her hot new single "Chained to the Rhythm." Click here to read the full article . 2.  Click here to read the full article . 3. Following her show-stopping Super Bowl halftime performance,  Click here to read the full article . 4. Similarly, after her Super Bowl performance. Click here to read the full article. 5. reigning with a behind-the-scenes look at a photo shoot. Click here to read the full article . 6. With her feature on Major Lazer 's "Run Up," : 71. Click here to read the full article . 7.  also make notable moves on the chart. Click here to read the full article . 8. Benefiting from the recent BET mini-series based on the group, for the first time in more than a decade. Click here to read the full article. 9. after teasing new music, while Beyonce 's pregnancy announcement helps her return to the top 10. Click here to read the full article. 10. with , while . Click here to read the full article . 11. , as her first studio album, , bows at the summit. Click here to read the full article. 12. The song, featuring Sean Paul and Anne-Marie, also bullets at No. 4 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs . Click here to read the full article. 13. , with his debut album of the same name having arrived today (Feb. 10). Click here to read the full article.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Three weeks after his No. 1 debut on the Billboard Hot 100, Ed Sheeran returns to the top spot with "Shape of You" (on the chart dated Feb. 18), as Migos' "Bad and Boujee" dips to No. 2 after three nonconsecutive weeks at No. 1. Still, Migos debut at No. 1 on the Billboard 200, as their second studio album, Culture, arrives as their first leader on the list.

Here are 13 other things you need to know about Billboard's charts this week:

1. Katy Perry debuts at No. 1 on the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart with her hot new single "Chained to the Rhythm." Click here to read the full article.

2. Big Sean is set to debut his latest album, I Decided., at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 chart. Click here to read the full article.

3. Following her show-stopping Super Bowl halftime performance, two of Lady Gaga's albums are slated to soar to the top 10 of the Billboard 200 chart. Click here to read the full article.

4. Similarly, Lady Gaga's "Million Reasons" is aiming to re-enter the Billboard Hot 100 in the top 10 after her Super Bowl performance. Click here to read the full article.

5. Snoop Dogg leads Billboard's first-ever Top Facebook Live Videos chart, reigning with a behind-the-scenes look at a photo shoot. Click here to read the full article.

6. With her feature on Major Lazer's "Run Up," Nicki Minaj passes Taylor Swift for the second-most Billboard Hot 100 entries among women: 71. Click here to read the full article.

7. Migos debut five songs from their album Culture on the Billboard Hot 100. The Weeknd, Marian Hill, Post Malone and Missy Elliott also make notable moves on the chart. Click here to read the full article.

8. Benefiting from the recent BET mini-series based on the group, New Edition makes a return to the top 40 of the Billboard 200 for the first time in more than a decade. Click here to read the full article.

9. Selena Gomez re-enters the Social 50 in the top five after teasing new music, while Beyonce's pregnancy announcement helps her return to the top 10. Click here to read the full article.

10. Brantley Gilbert collects his second No. 1 on the Top Country Albums chart with The Devil Don't Sleep, while Thomas RhettÂ racks his seventh Country Airplay No. 1. Click here to read the full article.

11. Kehlani scores her first No. 1 on the Top R&B Albums chart, as her first studio album, SweetSexySavage, bows at the summit. Click here to read the full article.

12. Clean Bandit's "Rockabye" rockets to No. 1 on the Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart. The song, featuring Sean Paul and Anne-Marie, also bullets at No. 4 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs. Click here to read the full article.

13. Rag'n'Bone Man's "Human" jumps 7-1 on the LyricFind Global chart, with his debut album of the same name having arrived today (Feb. 10). Click here to read the full article.