23 Questions You Probably Have For Lesbian Movies
23 Questions You Probably Have For Lesbian Movies
Why can’t we think of a new storyline? Seriously, why can’t two queer women just bump into each other at the coffee shop and fall in love like everyone else? I'm kinda tired of the lesbian-steals-"straight"-girl-from-her-boyfriend movies. How about a lesbian falling in lov… https://t.co/OLZfWyaSzZ Not that it has happened to me personally, but just saying. How is one of the greatest queer love stories of our time without actually being a queer love story? (Same question for these films too.) What’s with the forehead-to-forehead lean on covers? Who made this creative decision? And wait, why are there so many teacher/student storylines? Wolfe This, like, seems like a really bad idea you guys!? Why do we in our hearts these movies are pretty terrible, but the minute someone insults them we are willing to defend them till the bitter end? *Lowers glasses* And who the hell told straight people about scissoring? In , how did Rachel and Heck not actually meet the flower person (Luce) before their actual wedding day!? What kind of wedding planning is that? I can barely keep a pet hamster alive, but in Paulie had time to nurse a falcon back to health (and fucking train it)? And everyone was cool with that!? Why are books always keeping it real? Why hasn’t this very good idea taken off yet? Why are we all known by one name, huh? Just wondering. And when will I get to experience love-at-first-sight in the middle of a crowded department store? How has a fake Totino’s ad somehow become our pièce de résistance? Why is this so accurate? Cough cough. And why — WHY — are they always so sad? Do queer characters just for drama? We are such messy bitches. Sigh. And why do we fall for it each and every time? Shouldn’t these movies come with a goddamn warning label? Where is the cheesy rom-com of our dreams? why are lesbian movies always fucking wild cant i get (1) cheesy ass f/f movie PLEASE I want a buddy cop movie where Sandra Bullock and Kate McKinnon get married at the end. Make it happen. Would it really be that hard? And, seriously, will we ever learn!?   Shopify Employees Quietly Urged The Company To Stop...    Many Patriots Players Won't Say If They're Going To...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.