Blood-thinners Xarelto, Eliquis and Pradaxa marketed to doctors as drug companies splash cash



Blood-thinners Xarelto, Eliquis and Pradaxa marketed to doctors as drug companies splash cash

Updated

Pharmaceutical companies are spending millions marketing new blood-thinning medications to doctors, raising concerns the potentially risky drugs are being prescribed to some patients who may not need them.

Key points: An estimated 250,000 Australians are on, or have taken, blood thinners

Millions of dollars are being spent by drug companies to "educate" doctors

Experts fear younger, healthier people could be prescribed blood thinners unnecessarily

An ABC investigation has found pharmaceutical companies spent more than $2.6 million on "educational events" for doctors on new-generation blood thinners in just six months in 2015.

It included paying $185,000 to fly 25 specialists to Vienna and spending $86,000 to send six doctors business class to Canada for medical conferences; a practice the pharmaceutical industry defends.

The spending also included sponsoring small medical journal clubs in hospitals and expensive dinners for doctors.

Blood thinners are generally given to patients after operations and also to prevent stroke.

Until recently, Warfarin was the only option, but patients needed regular blood tests while on the medication.

With the new generation of blood-thinning drugs, known as novel oral anticoagulants, patients do not need those tests.

The new generation includes medications called Xarelto, Eliquis and Pradaxa.

Do you know more about this story? Email investigations@abc.net.au

An estimated 250,000 Australians are on, or have taken, blood thinners.

If patients are on Warfarin, doctors can easily reverse the drug if needed.

But with the newer drugs, only Pradaxa has an available antidote to stop patients from bleeding.

Barbara Mintzes, from the Faculty of Pharmacy and the Charles Perkins Centre at the University of Sydney, said research clearly showed a doctor was more likely to prescribe the drug if they attended an event or received meals and travel sponsored by the drug manufacturer.

"That can be a problem because that's not necessarily the best drug for that specific person," she said.

WARNING: Stopping blood thinners suddenly can be potentially deadly. Always consult a doctor before making any changes to medications.

Dr Mintzes said calling them "educational events" was a bit of a misnomer.

"This is the company's promotional budget in order to increase sales of the product. These events have been called in the literature 'marketing masquerading as education'," she said.

Pharmaceutical companies say they are required by the drug regulator, the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), to provide education to physicians as part of the drug approval process.

In a statement, the group representing pharmaceutical companies, Medicines Australia, said conferences were organised independently of pharmaceutical companies.

"An independent scientific faculty determines the speakers and topics to be presented," a spokesman said.

Prescription numbers from the Federal Government revealed spending on the new-generation blood thinners hit an all time high with more than 2.6 million scripts written in 2016.

More than $214 million was billed to the taxpayer-funded Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) for the drugs.

'Younger, healthier' patients given new blood thinners

Epidemiologist John Attia, from the Hunter Medical Research Institute, said evidence suggested the new blood thinners were being prescribed more frequently to lower-risk patients.

"The people being started on these medications are younger, are healthier and don't have as many health problems. Those people are the ones who are probably at less risk of stroke and so the risk-benefit ratio changes," Professor Attia said.

"Most people in that younger group have a risk of stroke of 1 to 2 per cent a year and the risk of bleeding is 2 to 4 per cent a year, so their risk of stroke really isn't worth it."

"It suggests to me that just because they're easy to use, people who really don't need them are being put on them."

But the Australian Medication Association (AMA) said doctors took their role as prescribers very seriously.

"These are an important type of drug, they're not prescribed lightly," AMA president Michael Gannon said.

"I'm not concerned that my colleagues, for a few sandwiches, will undo years of training, years of experience as to what they should be prescribing.

"Equally, they need to know about new medications and where they might offer improvements for some of their patients."

Dr Gannon said it would be "naive" to think there was no impact at all from doctors attending a sponsored event.

"In fact, pharmaceutical companies providing education at events is just one way, but an important way, in which doctors come to understand new options in prescribing," he said.

Dr Gannon said most of the research into drug company events and prescribing habits was from the United States where there were different regulatory rules in place.

How much are drug companies spending?

The ABC investigation revealed the makers of anti-coagulants had dedicated a large proportion of their education budget to promoting their blood-thinning products.

A review of the educational reports, submitted to industry body Medicines Australia, showed Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb supported many cardiology and haematology meetings as well as supporting educational events on conditions that related to their drugs.

The spending included sponsoring small medical journal clubs in hospitals, expensive dinners and sending doctors to major international conferences.

The ABC can reveal pharmaceutical companies reached more than 22,300 GPs, specialists and other health professionals with an interest in preventing blood clots in six months in 2015.

Bayer, which makes Xarelto, spent $23,400 to fly specialists to Sydney's Sheraton Hyde Park to "reinforce the importance of adequately anticoagulating non-valvular atrial fibrillation patients at risk of stroke" to doctors.

Pfizer, which makes Eliquis, spent $175,000 including flights and accommodation for its "Thrombo 360 experience" on clotting disorders at Sydney's Hilton Hotel for 107 doctors. The event included a 25-minute session on Eliquis.

Bristol-Myers Squibb, which co-produced Eliquis with Pfizer, spent $185,500 to send 25 haematologists to the European Haematology Association Conference in Vienna.

Boehringer Ingelheim, the makers of Pradaxa, spent $86,000 to send six haematologists business class to an international thrombosis congress in Canada.

Dr Mintzes from the University of Sydney said there was clear evidence globally that educational events for doctors influenced prescribing rates.

She said it suggested some people were getting blood-thinning medications who would not have been getting them otherwise.

"I think there's a real problem with medical education of doctors being carried out by a company that has a product to sell," she said.

A spokesman for Medicines Australia said member companies were committed to transparency in their interactions with medical professionals and regularly publicly reported on them.

"Without the support of pharmaceutical companies, access to the latest innovations in medicines, biotechnology and important medical breakthroughs would be unattainable for the majority of medical practitioners in Australia," the spokesman said.

In a statement Bayer, which makes Xarelto, said:

"The company believes that the medical fraternity greatly benefits from the support provided by industry and that this collaboration helps towards making sure that Australia remains a progressive society able to take part in international debate to improve the health and wellbeing of the population. "Bayer recognises that the Australian medical community operates at a very high standard and trusts that healthcare professionals will always do the best for the patient in deciding if and when they need a medication."

Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pfizer, the makers of Eliquis, said:

"Bristol-Myers Squibb and Pfizer conduct medical education events because it is in the best interests of patients that doctors are fully informed about our medicines. "We do this because we are committed to providing accurate, balanced information about our medicines so they are used appropriately. "The figure quoted [$185,000] refers to Bristol-Myers Squibb sponsorship for another therapeutic area in haematology: malignant haematology."

The medical director of Boehringer Ingelheim, Petra Moroni-Zentgraf, defended the patient familiarisation program, saying education programs supported by Boehringer Ingelheim were developed in close consultation with independent scientific steering committees.

Dr Moroni-Zentgraf said the program was delivered by experts in their field, to enhance medical knowledge and the quality use of medicines.

She said studies in hundreds of thousands of patients had confirmed the benefits of Pradaxa in preventing stroke and lowering the risk of bleeding compared to Warfarin.

About the data

In regards to the number of scripts: The data shows the number of PBS-funded scripts that can be prescribed for ongoing prevention or short term after surgery.

Scripts may be for 30- or 60-day courses depending on the medication.

In regards to the spending data: The figures may be affected by the individual prices of the drugs. New generation thinners typically cost more than Warfarin because they are still under patent.



Topics: medical-ethics, doctors-and-medical-professionals, health, stroke, diseases-and-disorders, australia

First posted