Jeremy Corbyn kept away from voters ahead of crucial Stoke by-election amid claims he is 'not a plus on the doorstep'
Jeremy Corbyn kept away from voters ahead of crucial Stoke by-election amid claims he is 'not a plus on the doorstep'
eremy Corbyn has been kept away from campaigning in next week's crucial Stoke-on-Trent Central by-election because he is "not a plus on the doorstep”, senior Labour figures say. Labour is preparing for a double set back by losing the Copeland by election and the Stoke by-election, which are both being held a week on February 23. Losing both seats would plunge Mr Corbyn's leadership into a fresh crisis after a week which has seen his authority tested over his backing for Brexit. enior Labour figures say they are expecting to lose the Copeland by-election to the Conservatives and face a challenge to hang onto Stoke against Ukip, which has fielded the party’s leader Paul Nuttall. Mr Corbyn has visited Stoke on just two occasions and is not expected to go there this week. He is penciled in for a final visit on the eve of polling day, although it is not confirmed. Mr Corbyn has been dogged by concerns that he is too Metropolitan and is a reluctant support of leaving the European Union. One source said Mr Corbyn: “He is not a plus on the doorstep that's for certain.” he news came after Jon Trickett was moved from his role as party’s campaigning chief. One source said he had “not played a particular significant role” in Stoke. Jack Dromey, the former union leader and local Labour MP, has relentlessly tried to focus on Labour’s support for Brexit in the Commons to hang onto the seat. Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer helped to launch the campaign. Labour sources said the party was involved in a "tough, tight" battle in Stoke but were confident the party would see off the Ukip threat. r Nuttall said Ukip would flood the seat over the final 10 days of campaigning and said had had a 50-50 chance of winning. He told The Telegraph the consistent message he had heard from voters was that “the people want change. “They have had a Labour MP since 1950. People feel a lot has not got better. They feel forgotten, left behind and it is time for change. We will do our best to give it to them.” Mr Nuttall said it would be  “a great boost for the party to have the leader in the House of Commons”. Separately Clive Lewis, a Left-wing MP who quit the frontbench last week over the party’s support for Brexit, has dismissed claims he touted for support in a bid to topple Mr Corbyn. The former shadow business secretary was the most high-profile rebel to resign from Mr Corbyn's top team ahead of defying the leader on a three-line whip. e voted against triggering Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which formally starts the Brexit withdrawal process. His actions provoked claims the Norwich MP was sounding-out colleagues about a possible leadership run, but Mr Lewis rejected such talk. "There has been speculation about that, and it is just that. You can quote me on this. It is total b-------," he told the Eastern Daily Press. He said whispers of a bid to topple Mr Corbyn were part of a "game of fantasy politics in Westminster". Mr Lewis added he would be "working hard to support the leadership and the party from the backbenches". "When I became the MP for Norwich South, I promised my constituents I would be Norwich's voice in Westminster, not Westminster's voice in Norwich," he said. The comments came as it emerged frontbench rebels who defied Mr Corbyn over the Brexit Bill but did not resign will not get the sack , but a written warning. The reprimand emerged after Labour's chief whip Nick Brown met Mr Corbyn to decide what disciplinary action would follow after 52 MPs ignored the leader's orders and voted against triggering Article 50.

Jeremy Corbyn has been kept away from campaigning in next week's crucial Stoke-on-Trent Central by-election because he is "not a plus on the doorstep”, senior Labour figures say.

Labour is preparing for a double set back by losing the Copeland by election and the Stoke by-election, which are both being held a week on February 23.

Losing both seats would plunge Mr Corbyn's leadership into a fresh crisis after a week which has seen his authority tested over his backing for Brexit.