Woman burns to death in a tower block blaze in Sarajevo
Woman burns to death in a tower block as neighbour helplessly watches


Two people died in a horrific tower block blaze after flames engulfed their apartment in Sarajevo - while firefighters apparently stood by and did nothing.

The drama - at a block of flats in the capital of Bosnia-Herzegovina - was recorded by an American-sounding neighbour who kept up a chilling commentary in English as one of the victims died in front of his eyes.

The horrifying video - which has been viewed tens of thousands of times since it was posted to social media - starts with a woman on the balcony of her 11th-storey flat screaming for help.

The drama unfolded at a block of flats in Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia-Herzegovina

A man and woman died after their apartment in the tower block caught fire

Behind her, smoke begins to emerge from the flat as she begs or someone to rescue her and her husband.

The footage then shows two fire engines on the ground below - apparently ignoring her pleas for help.

Within seconds, the fire becomes more intense with choking, thick, black fumes pouring from the balcony and windows.

Again the woman pleads in vain for help as the bright red and orange flames rise up behind her.

Pieces of window glass - shattered by the intense heat - start flying from the building.

The horrified video maker can be heard saying: 'That's an inferno.'

He adds: 'Oh my God! No way! Please, please get to her!'

It first became clear that the flat had caught fire when block smoke started pouring from the apartment's balcony

The black smoke then became thicker as right hot flames licked the side of the building

Eventually the woman disappears behind a wall of fire and smoke as the film maker can be heard pleading: 'F***** please get to them.'

The horrific video ends with the flames reaching up to the flats above and the sound of the sirens from more emergency vehicles arriving.

Local media reports that the woman and her husband - identified only as SR and RV - both died in the fire.

Firefighters claimed they had been unable to tackle the blaze because a fire hydrant was not working.

A neighbour started filming the incident when he saw the woman, circled, on her balcony screaming for help

Soon the entire flat had been engulfed by the flames, with thick columns of black smoke pouring out

The footage shows two fire engines on the ground below - apparently ignoring the woman's pleas for help

Neighbours revealed that the woman might have been able to escape on her own but refused to abandon her husband, who has a broken hip.

One said: 'We were calling to her from the window on the opposite side, asking her to try and get out of there.

'But unfortunately she died while helping her paralysed husband.'

The English speaking person who filmed the footage has not been identified.

There has so far been no statement from the authorities and it is unclear if they are investigating why the fire hydrant did not work. It is also unclear how long it took firefighters to put out the blaze and if there were other victims.