The Iraq investigations are now rightly over – the questioning should turn Whitehall
The Iraq investigations are now rightly over – the questioning should turn Whitehall
aving spent the last six months scrutinising the Iraq Historic Investigations Team and revealing its scandalous activities, this newspaper is pleased that it will be wound up , even if that announcement comes too late to spare many British veterans from Ihat's unwarranted attentions. Yet even though ministers have, finally, made the right decision on Ihat, this sad saga is far from over. As we report, a series of troubling questions remain unanswered about Ihat, they way it was created and the way it was run.  Why was this organisation allowed to run for seven years despite the abundance of concerns about it and about Phil Shiner, the disgraced former lawyer whose firm appeared able to use Ihat as a cash-machine, exchanging baseless slurs against brave service personnel for large sums of public money. Mr Shiner is the villain of this story, and deserves greater punishment than he has yet had.  Yet he did not act alone: those who tolerated and enabled his misconduct should also answer for that. Whitehall must not be allowed to look after its own and sweep these questions under the carpet. Yet there are heroes here too, including Johnny Mercer, the Tory MP who worked hard to expose Ihat's mistakes. Mr Mercer is a former Army officer whose work in Parliament shows that there is more than one way for a man of honour to serve his country.

Having spent the last six months scrutinising the Iraq Historic Investigations Team and revealing its scandalous activities, this newspaper is pleased that it will be wound up, even if that announcement comes too late to spare many British veterans from Ihat's unwarranted attentions.

Yet even though ministers have, finally, made the right decision on Ihat, this sad saga is far from over. As we report, a series of troubling questions remain unanswered about Ihat, they way it was created and the way it was run. Why was this organisation allowed to run for seven years despite the abundance of concerns about it and about Phil Shiner, the disgraced former lawyer whose firm appeared able to use Ihat as a cash-machine, exchanging baseless slurs against brave service personnel for large sums of public money.

Mr Shiner is the villain of this story, and deserves greater punishment than he has yet had. Yet he did not act alone: those who tolerated and enabled his misconduct should also answer for that. Whitehall must not be allowed to look after its own and sweep these questions under the carpet.

Yet there are heroes here too, including Johnny Mercer, the Tory MP who worked hard to expose Ihat's mistakes. Mr Mercer is a former Army officer whose work in Parliament shows that there is more than one way for a man of honour to serve his country.