Several GOP States Move to Block Their Own Funding to Sanctuary Cities

Several GOP States Move to Block Their Own Funding to Sanctuary Cities // // // // // A number of GOP states have moved to introduce legislation to block their own state funding to so-called sanctuary cities. The moves come in conjunction with President Donald Trump's executive order to block federal funding to cities that refuse to comply with federal immigration authorities. The states include Idaho, Texas, Iowa, Michigan, Ohio, Tennessee, Florida, North Carolina and Pennsylvania. Cities nationwide including New York City, Chicago, Philadelphia, New Orleans, Boston, Baltimore and Washington, D.C., have all adopted sanctuary status. As of now, local law enforcement agencies are not required to comply with detention requests from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Some claim declining to enforce federal immigration laws builds trust among the immigrant communities they serve. The new legislation however would use state grant money as leverage to require local agencies to comply with federal laws. The Texas state Senate passed a measure Wednesday to block state funding to sanctuary cities. The measure moves to the state House of Representatives and if passed would go before Gov. Greg Abbott for approval. Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick joined "Fox & Friends Weekend" on Saturday to discuss the state's position on sanctuary cities. Watch the full interview above, and share your thoughts on these states' proposals in the comments section.

A number of GOP states have moved to introduce legislation to block their own state funding to so-called sanctuary cities.

The moves come in conjunction with President Donald Trump's executive order to block federal funding to cities that refuse to comply with federal immigration authorities.

The states include Idaho, Texas, Iowa, Michigan, Ohio, Tennessee, Florida, North Carolina and Pennsylvania.

Cities nationwide including New York City, Chicago, Philadelphia, New Orleans, Boston, Baltimore and Washington, D.C., have all adopted sanctuary status.

Top Aide Says Hillary Clinton 'Least Surprised' She Lost Election to Trump

Sears, Kmart Are Latest Retailers Reportedly to Drop Trump Merchandise

Lindsay Lohan Wants Meeting with Trump, Putin to Solve Syrian Refugee Crisis

As of now, local law enforcement agencies are not required to comply with detention requests from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Some claim declining to enforce federal immigration laws builds trust among the immigrant communities they serve.

The new legislation however would use state grant money as leverage to require local agencies to comply with federal laws.

The Texas state Senate passed a measure Wednesday to block state funding to sanctuary cities. The measure moves to the state House of Representatives and if passed would go before Gov. Greg Abbott for approval.

Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick joined "Fox & Friends Weekend" on Saturday to discuss the state's position on sanctuary cities.

Watch the full interview above, and share your thoughts on these states' proposals in the comments section.

Report: Russia Considering Sending Snowden to US to 'Curry Favor' with Trump

WATCH: Former Marine Posts Warning From Iraq After Travel Ban Uproar

Hannity: 'The Left Is in a Pre-9/11 Mentality'