This Porn Site Is Rerouting Its Utah Users To Online Sex-Ed Resources
This Porn Site Is Rerouting Its Utah Users To Online Sex-Ed Resources
In response to Utah lawmakers’ rejection of a bill that would allow parents to opt their children into comprehensive sex education, porn site xHamster has taken matters into its own hands. Now, when anyone tries to access xHamster from Utah, they are directed to xHamster’s sex education series, according to an announcement on xHamster’s blog earlier this week. “Beginning immediately, we’re rerouting all xHamster traffic from Utah to our comprehensive sex ed series, The Box ,” they wrote. “We’ve been working on The Box since last year, producing videos based on questions submitted by porn viewers.” On Monday, the Utah House Education Committee struck down H.B.15 ― a law that would simply allow parents to opt their kids in to a more comprehensive sex education program if they weren’t satisfied with the state-mandated emphasis on abstinence. The law would not have required more comprehensive sex ed for all students, it simply would have made comprehensive sex ed accessible for students whose parents wanted them to learn about things like consent and emergency contraception. xHamster’s post claims that Utahns “consume the most porn per capita of any state in the nation,” though that might not actually be true. xHamster is likely referring to the 2009 study that showed Utah pays for online porn subscriptions more porn than any other state. But still, the porn site is set on educating its Utah users. “Let’s see if we can turn the thirstiest state in the nation into the most sexually aware.” H/T The Daily Dot ALSO ON HUFFPOST Porn Stars Without Makeup       Share this slide:       MORE:

In response to Utah lawmakers’ rejection of a bill that would allow parents to opt their children into comprehensive sex education, porn site xHamster has taken matters into its own hands.

Now, when anyone tries to access xHamster from Utah, they are directed to xHamster’s sex education series, according to an announcement on xHamster’s blog earlier this week.

xHamster

“Beginning immediately, we’re rerouting all xHamster traffic from Utah to our comprehensive sex ed series, The Box,” they wrote. “We’ve been working on The Box since last year, producing videos based on questions submitted by porn viewers.”

On Monday, the Utah House Education Committee struck down H.B.15 ― a law that would simply allow parents to opt their kids in to a more comprehensive sex education program if they weren’t satisfied with the state-mandated emphasis on abstinence. The law would not have required more comprehensive sex ed for all students, it simply would have made comprehensive sex ed accessible for students whose parents wanted them to learn about things like consent and emergency contraception.

xHamster xHamster's "The Box" sex ed series includes informational videos about consent, contraception, and anatomy.

xHamster’s post claims that Utahns “consume the most porn per capita of any state in the nation,” though that might not actually be true. xHamster is likely referring to the 2009 study that showed Utah pays for online porn subscriptions more porn than any other state. But still, the porn site is set on educating its Utah users.