Internet Is Going Wild Over College Student’s Crazy Wraparound Haircut
Internet Is Going Wild Over College Student’s Crazy Wraparound Haircut
In crazy hair news, a college student’s unique wraparound ‘do is making waves (or should we say circles?) on the Internet. When Kevin Sjuts, the sports director of a Nebraska news station, noticed a basketball game attendee with a creative haircut, he had to share it with his followers. The fan had a mostly shaved head, except for a band of hair that wrapped around the top of his head and down each cheek, where it joined his beard , creating a complete oval around his face. “This is a real haircut spotted in the Nebraska Wesleyan student section,” Sjuts tweeted with a photo of the guy and some friends who were all unaware that they were being photographed while attending a basketball game against Coe College Wednesday night. This is a real haircut spotted in the Nebraska Wesleyan student section pic.twitter.com/GaCo6DXxhi — Kevin Sjuts (@kevinsjuts) February 9, 2017 Of course, Twitter users were quick to comment with questions. The main one being, why? Some had hilarious explanations. One follower, Captain Truth , joked that it was a miscommunication: “The sign at the barber said ‘Haircuts 75% off,’ & he cut 75% off.” Others wondered if it had to do with hazing, if the wearer of the haircut lost a bet, or if he fell asleep at a party. Of course, he could have just wanted that haircut. … Nah, these reasons make much more sense. However, the look might be catching on because another Twitter user posted a photo of a different guy with a similar hair style. That, or else someone’s just really good at Photoshop. @kevinsjuts  pic.twitter.com/5e8zsKd23L — Dan ???????? (@DServon) February 9, 2017 This excuse has got to be our favorite, though: Much like that scary story about the girl with the red ribbon around her neck, Twitter user LaceFace wrote , “Maybe if he shaves it, his jaw will fall off?” First it was Dunkin’ Donuts and Nutella for hair dye, and now we’ve got what we’re deeming the rubber-band ‘do. What will these crazy kids think of next?

A guy at a college basketball game was spotted with a unique shaved hairstyle that has the Internet buzzing. (Photo: Getty Images)

In crazy hair news, a college student’s unique wraparound ‘do is making waves (or should we say circles?) on the Internet.

When Kevin Sjuts, the sports director of a Nebraska news station, noticed a basketball game attendee with a creative haircut, he had to share it with his followers. The fan had a mostly shaved head, except for a band of hair that wrapped around the top of his head and down each cheek, where it joined his beard, creating a complete oval around his face.

“This is a real haircut spotted in the Nebraska Wesleyan student section,” Sjuts tweeted with a photo of the guy and some friends who were all unaware that they were being photographed while attending a basketball game against Coe College Wednesday night.

This is a real haircut spotted in the Nebraska Wesleyan student section pic.twitter.com/GaCo6DXxhi — Kevin Sjuts (@kevinsjuts) February 9, 2017





Of course, Twitter users were quick to comment with questions. The main one being, why? Some had hilarious explanations. One follower, Captain Truth, joked that it was a miscommunication: “The sign at the barber said ‘Haircuts 75% off,’ & he cut 75% off.” Others wondered if it had to do with hazing, if the wearer of the haircut lost a bet, or if he fell asleep at a party. Of course, he could have just wanted that haircut. … Nah, these reasons make much more sense.

However, the look might be catching on because another Twitter user posted a photo of a different guy with a similar hair style. That, or else someone’s just really good at Photoshop.





This excuse has got to be our favorite, though: Much like that scary story about the girl with the red ribbon around her neck, Twitter user LaceFace wrote, “Maybe if he shaves it, his jaw will fall off?”

First it was Dunkin’ Donuts and Nutella for hair dye, and now we’ve got what we’re deeming the rubber-band ‘do. What will these crazy kids think of next?

Read more:

Hairstylist Says She Was Fired for Giving Discount to Woman With Cancer

Donald Trump Reportedly Takes a Hair Growth Drug

Take This Quiz to See if You’re Biased About Black Hair

Let’s keep in touch! Follow Yahoo Beauty on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest.