Finding America, Both Red and Blue, in the ‘Little House’ Books
Finding America, Both Red and Blue, in the ‘Little House’ Books
Nothing about Laura Ingalls’s birth to a modest Wisconsin family on Feb. 7, 1867, suggested she would become one of the most significant voices in the canon of the American frontier. A century and a half later, the contribution Laura Ingalls Wilder made still seems astonishing — a fact not lost on her publisher. As a new anniversary-themed batch of “Little House on the Prairie” books rolled in this fall — with homespun-looking covers and introductions by luminaries including Laura Bush and Patricia MacLachlan (author of the gentle Newbery Medal-winning novel “Sarah, Plain and Tall”) — I found myself plunging back into the “Little House” world I’d loved as a child, with a strange feeling of urgency. Wilder’s novels, which have sold about 60 million copies over the decades, seemed suddenly timely. As the 2016 election raged to a close, the nation, whose fitful years of post-Civil War expansion the children’s book series had documented, was splitting apart again. The new fault lines not only had roots in the world depicted in Wilder’s books but could also be captured quite neatly by those two introduction writers. Laura Bush and Patricia MacLachlan: red America and blue America. Both swaths of the American electorate can lay claim to the “Little House” mythology and the blueprint the books offer for a certain way to live in this country. For every grown-up “Little House” fan who’s now an artisanal pickle maker with a backyard composter, there’s another who’s an evangelical home-schooler dreaming of living off the land and off the grid. It’s a fair bet that, red and blue alike, they’ve all seen episodes of the classic TV series based on the books, starring Michael Landon as Pa and Melissa Gilbert as Laura, which ran on NBC from 1974 to 1983 and has never gone off the air. (Four episodes a day are still shown on NBC’s digital channel COZI .) So I tore through the nine novels once again. They are every bit as charming and emotionally powerful as I remembered, though this time around I was shocked by the stereotypical treatment of Native Americans that must have seemed par for the course in my 1970s childhood. Ma freely voices her hatred of Indians; Laura conveys a slightly more ambiguous attitude. “Won’t it make the Indians mad to have to — ” she tries to ask at one point about the forced marches west, only to be hushed by her father. The books are, in a sense, one giant hushing of Native American history. As for black people, including the slaves only recently freed by the Civil War and also in search of safe homes, there are none besides the smiling Dr. Tan, who appears only to save all the white settlers along the Kansas creek from “fever ’n’ ague,” though at one point the townspeople put on a horrid minstrel show. Advertisement Then I began reading the considerable body of nonfiction that has sprung up alongside the “Little House” books, including the 2014 surprise best seller “Pioneer Girl,” an autobiography Wilder wrote as a kind of first draft. In this material, many facts of Wilder’s life bump up awkwardly against the pioneer world created in the novels and embraced by her fans, red and blue. And yet, even with all the contradictions, it leaves an indelible impression. By the time my “Little House” jag had ended, I came away convinced the books are as good a way as any to understand how certain strains of the American project that ostensibly bring us together can also sharply wrench us apart. In the novels the itinerant Ingalls family outruns natural and other disasters, determined to find some elusive combination of rural isolation and community. Pa, a hunter, trapper and farmer, plays the fiddle soulfully at night; Ma is a patient whiz at countless household industries — sewing, cooking, straw-braiding hats, candlemaking and so on, which Laura and her sisters, Mary, Carrie and Grace, join in on while (more or less) attending school. At the start of the series, the family’s life in the Wisconsin woods seems to Laura blissful, but change is afoot: “Quite often Laura heard the ringing thud of an ax which was not Pa’s ax.” Into the covered wagon the family goes, traveling to Kansas, and later to Minnesota and Dakota. In Dakota, farming methods imported from the East fail utterly, and in perhaps the most dramatic of the books, “The Long Winter,” family members almost starve and freeze to death. Eventually they figure out a way to make a go of it there, just outside De Smet. By “These Happy Golden Years,” the family is settled, with the 18-year-old newlywed Laura establishing her own home with Almanzo Wilder. “Little House in the Big Woods” was published in 1932, when Laura was 65 and Rose, her only child, was long divorced, an accomplished, but increasingly broke journalist and author. Rose Wilder Lane had lost both her own money and money she invested for her parents in the 1929 stock market crash, and they were scrounging by, with Almanzo hauling loads and Laura selling eggs and apples and writing occasional pieces about farm life. Advertisement Out of desperation Rose suggested that her mother write down the stories of her pioneer childhood, heavily revised the resulting manuscript and found a publisher. In the rest of the books, as well, she provided substantial editing. Some historians insist that Rose — who later became an outspoken antigovernment polemicist and is called one of the godmothers of the libertarian movement, along with Ayn Rand — should be considered the books’ ghostwriter. Christine Woodside’s recent book , “Libertarians on the Prairie,” makes this case, cataloging libertarian messages Rose embedded in the books. (Some are overt: “The politicians are a-swarming in already,” says one character in “The Long Winter.” “They’ll tax the lining out’n a man’s pockets,” he cries. “I don’t see nary use for a county, nohow.”) Still, it was Laura’s life story, not Rose’s, and Laura’s patient, precise voice, filled with awe at the wonders of the natural world, the fascination of making useful things, and the joys of everyday family love, never goes missing in the books for too long. Both more interesting and more disturbing to me now are the ways the books massaged reality to support the pioneer fantasy of a self-sustaining family living in relative isolation. Newer research on the American West debunks that mythology, showing that settlers lived in close proximity, often as a matter of life and death. The “Little House” books take every opportunity to show the Ingallses as an independent unit. “The Long Winter” portrays family members as alone in their house, while in fact they took in an irksome couple who begged them for shelter. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy But farming could not support the family, and Pa took jobs including one as a justice of the peace. Laura worked in later life as an administrator of a federal farm loan program. Mary’s tuition at the college for the blind was paid for by the government of Iowa, though the later books make it seem as though the extra money from Laura’s small jobs paid those bills. When the New Deal began, Laura and Rose expressed outrage that struggling people were going to get “handouts,” when they had had to tough out so many hard, lean years. Maybe there was a lingering bitterness about the true sacrifices of both pioneer life and the small-family-farm life Laura and Almanzo pursued in Missouri, where Rose grew up and the family was often in penury. Both women attributed their painful dental problems and diabetes to poor childhood nutrition. Rose told piteous tales of having to go to school in town without shoes. When you’re raised with the belief that you don’t need society, that you’re better off suffering through every hardship than accepting help, it’s a small step toward believing that anyone who takes assistance is a drag on others. But the books are novels, not political tracts, and reading them this time I was also struck by how much their mythologizing of the self-enclosed family has psychological roots, namely Laura’s extreme introversion. (“A great many people traveling through stop to see me, and I am glad not all come this way for I have never gotten over my timidity with perfect strangers,” she wrote after she became a celebrity.) Constant moving is hard on a personality like that. If heaven in the “Little House” books is a quiet fireside evening at home with just the family, it’s partly because hell is other people’s families. Boarding in one unhappy home when she becomes a teacher, Laura is terrified as the miserable wife, desperate to escape the desolate winter prairie, confronts her husband with a butcher knife, saying, “If I can’t go home one way, I’ll go another.” There are comforting values in these books and in Wilder’s worldview. I was moved by the letters she wrote to schoolchildren in her later life, when she had become a national icon. “Unless you had lived as I did, where books were scarce and so prized greatly, you cannot realize how wonderful it really is to have a whole library so convenient for your use,” reads her message for the dedication of a Detroit library named for her. “As you read my books of long ago,” she wrote to the children of Pomona, Calif., when a room in their library was named for her, “I hope you will remember that the things that will give you happiness are the same now as they were then. Courage and kindness, loyalty, truth and helpfulness are always the same and always needed.” But personal integrity and strength are not always enough. I came to see something sad about how it all turned out for the Ingallses and the Wilders, these two pioneer families etched onto our national consciousness. “I am the only one of the C. P. Ingalls family left, and Rose is the only grandchild,” Wilder wrote in a 1946 letter. None of Laura’s sisters had children, nor did Rose, so “the Almanzo Wilder branch will die out with us.” I thought of the hunger, illnesses and injuries in the books: the scarlet fever that left Mary blind, the diphtheria that withered Almanzo’s leg. Rose, who several times approached suicide, was clearly in the throes of untreated mental illness most of her life. Ma, Pa and Almanzo had come from large families that lived relatively comfortably. The hardscrabble way they raised their own children yielded adventure but also ill health. Advertisement Some of the blanks Wilder left have been filled in by other voices. Alongside the “Little House” version of the American westward push, we now also have Birchbark House, the cunning children’s series by the acclaimed novelist Louise Erdrich, which tells the story of white expansion in the upper Midwest from the point of view of a Native American girl. The books, engaging and addictive in their own right, have the satisfying ring of corrective truth about them. Meanwhile, Rose Wilder, late in her life, became attached to an enterprising young man named Roger Lea MacBride, who shared her antigovernment politics and worldview; in 1976 he was the Libertarian Party’s candidate for president. He called Rose “Grandma,” and when she died in 1968 she left him the rights to the books she owned. The rest is, depending on your perspective, a symbolic or cautionary tale. He waged a legal battle with the small library in Mansfield, Mo., that Laura’s will had stipulated would get the copyrights after Rose’s death, until the library settled and handed them over to MacBride for $875,000. MacBride took those copyrights and turned them into the TV series and the endless “Little House” franchise books, which made him a fortune. At his death in 1995 he was chairman of the Republican Liberty Caucus. Laura Ingalls Wilder has no descendants, but her “Little House” books became a $100 million media empire that, it seems, funneled large amounts of money into conservative politics. Given the contradictions of her life, it’s impossible to know how she would have felt about that. There’s something mysterious and paradoxical about Wilder and her view of America, which might just be part of the reason her story endures. A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 2017, on Page C25 of the with the headline: A ‘Little House’ Tinged With Red and Blue.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Then I began reading the considerable body of nonfiction that has sprung up alongside the “Little House” books, including the 2014 surprise best seller “Pioneer Girl,” an autobiography Wilder wrote as a kind of first draft. In this material, many facts of Wilder’s life bump up awkwardly against the pioneer world created in the novels and embraced by her fans, red and blue. And yet, even with all the contradictions, it leaves an indelible impression. By the time my “Little House” jag had ended, I came away convinced the books are as good a way as any to understand how certain strains of the American project that ostensibly bring us together can also sharply wrench us apart.

In the novels the itinerant Ingalls family outruns natural and other disasters, determined to find some elusive combination of rural isolation and community. Pa, a hunter, trapper and farmer, plays the fiddle soulfully at night; Ma is a patient whiz at countless household industries — sewing, cooking, straw-braiding hats, candlemaking and so on, which Laura and her sisters, Mary, Carrie and Grace, join in on while (more or less) attending school.

Photo

At the start of the series, the family’s life in the Wisconsin woods seems to Laura blissful, but change is afoot: “Quite often Laura heard the ringing thud of an ax which was not Pa’s ax.” Into the covered wagon the family goes, traveling to Kansas, and later to Minnesota and Dakota. In Dakota, farming methods imported from the East fail utterly, and in perhaps the most dramatic of the books, “The Long Winter,” family members almost starve and freeze to death. Eventually they figure out a way to make a go of it there, just outside De Smet. By “These Happy Golden Years,” the family is settled, with the 18-year-old newlywed Laura establishing her own home with Almanzo Wilder.

“Little House in the Big Woods” was published in 1932, when Laura was 65 and Rose, her only child, was long divorced, an accomplished, but increasingly broke journalist and author. Rose Wilder Lane had lost both her own money and money she invested for her parents in the 1929 stock market crash, and they were scrounging by, with Almanzo hauling loads and Laura selling eggs and apples and writing occasional pieces about farm life.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Out of desperation Rose suggested that her mother write down the stories of her pioneer childhood, heavily revised the resulting manuscript and found a publisher. In the rest of the books, as well, she provided substantial editing. Some historians insist that Rose — who later became an outspoken antigovernment polemicist and is called one of the godmothers of the libertarian movement, along with Ayn Rand — should be considered the books’ ghostwriter. Christine Woodside’s recent book, “Libertarians on the Prairie,” makes this case, cataloging libertarian messages Rose embedded in the books. (Some are overt: “The politicians are a-swarming in already,” says one character in “The Long Winter.” “They’ll tax the lining out’n a man’s pockets,” he cries. “I don’t see nary use for a county, nohow.”)

Still, it was Laura’s life story, not Rose’s, and Laura’s patient, precise voice, filled with awe at the wonders of the natural world, the fascination of making useful things, and the joys of everyday family love, never goes missing in the books for too long.

Both more interesting and more disturbing to me now are the ways the books massaged reality to support the pioneer fantasy of a self-sustaining family living in relative isolation. Newer research on the American West debunks that mythology, showing that settlers lived in close proximity, often as a matter of life and death. The “Little House” books take every opportunity to show the Ingallses as an independent unit. “The Long Winter” portrays family members as alone in their house, while in fact they took in an irksome couple who begged them for shelter.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But farming could not support the family, and Pa took jobs including one as a justice of the peace. Laura worked in later life as an administrator of a federal farm loan program. Mary’s tuition at the college for the blind was paid for by the government of Iowa, though the later books make it seem as though the extra money from Laura’s small jobs paid those bills.

When the New Deal began, Laura and Rose expressed outrage that struggling people were going to get “handouts,” when they had had to tough out so many hard, lean years. Maybe there was a lingering bitterness about the true sacrifices of both pioneer life and the small-family-farm life Laura and Almanzo pursued in Missouri, where Rose grew up and the family was often in penury. Both women attributed their painful dental problems and diabetes to poor childhood nutrition. Rose told piteous tales of having to go to school in town without shoes. When you’re raised with the belief that you don’t need society, that you’re better off suffering through every hardship than accepting help, it’s a small step toward believing that anyone who takes assistance is a drag on others.

But the books are novels, not political tracts, and reading them this time I was also struck by how much their mythologizing of the self-enclosed family has psychological roots, namely Laura’s extreme introversion. (“A great many people traveling through stop to see me, and I am glad not all come this way for I have never gotten over my timidity with perfect strangers,” she wrote after she became a celebrity.) Constant moving is hard on a personality like that.

If heaven in the “Little House” books is a quiet fireside evening at home with just the family, it’s partly because hell is other people’s families. Boarding in one unhappy home when she becomes a teacher, Laura is terrified as the miserable wife, desperate to escape the desolate winter prairie, confronts her husband with a butcher knife, saying, “If I can’t go home one way, I’ll go another.”

There are comforting values in these books and in Wilder’s worldview. I was moved by the letters she wrote to schoolchildren in her later life, when she had become a national icon. “Unless you had lived as I did, where books were scarce and so prized greatly, you cannot realize how wonderful it really is to have a whole library so convenient for your use,” reads her message for the dedication of a Detroit library named for her. “As you read my books of long ago,” she wrote to the children of Pomona, Calif., when a room in their library was named for her, “I hope you will remember that the things that will give you happiness are the same now as they were then. Courage and kindness, loyalty, truth and helpfulness are always the same and always needed.”

But personal integrity and strength are not always enough. I came to see something sad about how it all turned out for the Ingallses and the Wilders, these two pioneer families etched onto our national consciousness. “I am the only one of the C. P. Ingalls family left, and Rose is the only grandchild,” Wilder wrote in a 1946 letter. None of Laura’s sisters had children, nor did Rose, so “the Almanzo Wilder branch will die out with us.” I thought of the hunger, illnesses and injuries in the books: the scarlet fever that left Mary blind, the diphtheria that withered Almanzo’s leg. Rose, who several times approached suicide, was clearly in the throes of untreated mental illness most of her life. Ma, Pa and Almanzo had come from large families that lived relatively comfortably. The hardscrabble way they raised their own children yielded adventure but also ill health.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some of the blanks Wilder left have been filled in by other voices. Alongside the “Little House” version of the American westward push, we now also have Birchbark House, the cunning children’s series by the acclaimed novelist Louise Erdrich, which tells the story of white expansion in the upper Midwest from the point of view of a Native American girl. The books, engaging and addictive in their own right, have the satisfying ring of corrective truth about them.

Meanwhile, Rose Wilder, late in her life, became attached to an enterprising young man named Roger Lea MacBride, who shared her antigovernment politics and worldview; in 1976 he was the Libertarian Party’s candidate for president. He called Rose “Grandma,” and when she died in 1968 she left him the rights to the books she owned. The rest is, depending on your perspective, a symbolic or cautionary tale. He waged a legal battle with the small library in Mansfield, Mo., that Laura’s will had stipulated would get the copyrights after Rose’s death, until the library settled and handed them over to MacBride for $875,000.

MacBride took those copyrights and turned them into the TV series and the endless “Little House” franchise books, which made him a fortune. At his death in 1995 he was chairman of the Republican Liberty Caucus. Laura Ingalls Wilder has no descendants, but her “Little House” books became a $100 million media empire that, it seems, funneled large amounts of money into conservative politics. Given the contradictions of her life, it’s impossible to know how she would have felt about that. There’s something mysterious and paradoxical about Wilder and her view of America, which might just be part of the reason her story endures.