The gig economy will finally have to give workers the rights they deserve
The gig economy will finally have to give workers the rights they deserve
UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    7 February 2017   A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London   Reuters     7 February 2017   Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice   Getty Images     2 February 2017   The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being  lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete   PA wire     1 February 2017   The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns   PA wire     31 January 2017   Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015   EPA     31 January 2017   Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA     31 January 2017   Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London.  Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings   EPA     30 January 2017   Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London   Getty Images     30 January 2017   Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London.  President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England   Getty Images     26 January 2017   British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London   AP     22 January 2017   The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     22 January 2017   A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters   PA wire     21 January 2017   Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London   Reuters    Landmark court ruling could mean gig economy workers get sick pay More about: gig economy sharing economy Employment Comments

You might have imagined that an advantage of being self-employed would be that after a major health trauma – a heart attack, say – you would be able to reduce your hours without having to beg for the boss’s permission. After all, the boss is you, right?

But the case of Gary Smith reveals how outdated such assumptions are in today’s workforce. As the Court of Appeal’s ruling last week confirmed, the economic reality of Smith’s relationship with Pimlico Plumbers (working five days a week for a single firm from whom he leased a branded van) was that he was a worker rather than a self-employed contractor.

This is not the first case where the courts have found for the “self-employed” over employers in such disputes. But Pimlico’s behaviour towards Smith feels like a watershed moment since it stands out in its unreasonableness.

It would not be surprising if many gig economy toilers who feel they have all the obligations of full-time workers but none of the employment rights responded to the Smith ruling by calling their lawyers.

UK news in pictures







14 show all UK news in pictures

























1/14 7 February 2017 A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London Reuters

2/14 7 February 2017 Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice Getty Images

3/14 2 February 2017 The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete PA wire

4/14 1 February 2017 The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns PA wire

5/14 31 January 2017 Jon Platt with his wife Sally outside the Supreme Court in London. The Supreme Court is set to decide whether parents can be criminalised for keeping sick children off school. Platt, a businessman from the Isle of Wight, refused to pay a school fine for taking his seven-year-old daughter on a term-time holiday in 2015 EPA

6/14 31 January 2017 Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

7/14 31 January 2017 Schera Morris Masters (L), 97, Lance Corporal, John Duke (C), 95, Corporal in the Armoured Corps, and Alfred Arthur Wilson (R), 91, Stoker in the Royal Marines, share a joke in the French Ambassador's residence in London. Twelve British World War II veterans were awarded by the French Ambassador to the UK, Sylvie Bermann, with the Legion d'honneur award, France's highest distinction. The veterans were honoured for their role in securing France's liberation during the Second World War, with many of them having taken part in the June 1944 'D-Day' landings EPA

8/14 30 January 2017 Demonstrators protest outside Downing Street against US President Donald Trump in central London Getty Images

9/14 30 January 2017 Demonstrators hold placards as they protest outside Downing Street in London. President Trump signed an executive order on Friday banning immigration to the USA from seven muslim countries. This led to protests across America and the UK. A British petition asking for the downgrading of Trump's State visit passed one million signatures this morning Getty Images

10/14 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake poses with the Soyuz TMA-19M descent module which he used to return from the International Space Station, as it is unveiled at the Science Museum in London, England Getty Images

11/14 26 January 2017 British astronaut Tim Peake stands by his Russian built Soyuz TMA-19M return capsule at the Science Museum as it is show to the media in London AP

12/14 22 January 2017 The Shard building is lit through a misty sunrise from Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

13/14 22 January 2017 A frosty sunrise over Primrose Hill in London, as some rural areas are expected to see lows of minus 7C (19.4F) as the wintry weather continues, according to forecasters PA wire

14/14 21 January 2017 Protesters carrying banners take part in the Women's March on London, as they stand in Trafalgar Square, in central London Reuters

Even after this latest legal setback firms are unlikely to roll over. Some have business models that appear to be essentially based on avoiding the costs of conventional employment, such as paid holiday leave and the necessity of paying the minimum wage, rather than any other kind of genuine competitive edge.

Yet the smarter ones and the ones who genuinely do things better than the competition could do themselves a big favour by recognising which way the wind is blowing and facing up to the fact that they have obligations to their workforce, even if that workforce is not technically made up of regular employees.

The Government is preparing to act in any case. An independent review into modern employment practices – specifically the burgeoning gig economy – will report in the summer and will likely make a range of policy recommendations for new regulation.

Yet tax may be as important as regulation. As the Institute for Fiscal Studies pointed out last week in its Green Budget, the national insurance system makes it less costly for firms to take on self-employed contractors than new regular employees.

Phillip Hammond announces new government measures designed to protect the economy pre-brexit

In that sense it’s not terribly surprising that almost half of all the jobs created since the financial crisis a decade ago have been self-employed. Faced with a marginal hire in a still uncertain wider market, most firms will naturally play it safe (or rather cheap), particularly if competitors are doing the same.

This story has a macroeconomic dimension. As the gig economy employers frequently point out, no one is forced to work for the likes of Uber, Deliveroo, CitySprint or even Pimlico Plumbers. The fact that many do so, while apparently being unhappy with their pay and harsh conditions, suggest they have little choice; that there is not, in fact, somewhere else for them to go.

The headline unemployment rate might be close to a record low, but the rise of gigging, the explosion of zero hours contracts and chronically weak pay growth, gives this the feel of a market still very much skewed towards the buyer of labour rather than the worker. And this, in turn, suggests that there remains disinflationary slack in the economy.

Libertarian evangelisers for the gig economy pour scorn on the idea that we are witnessing the creation a new “precariat” class of exploited workers and cite surveys suggesting that most self-employed contractors are content with their status and have no particular desire to be treated any differently.

In this view of the world, the complainers, such as Smith, constitute a tiny awkward squad in a sea of happy contractors. To really test this view what is needed is a high pressure and high demand economy where workers indisputably have the greater market power. If the low pay and ultra flexible gigging boom survives that environment the evangelists will have a strong case. But until then the rest of us can justifiably remain sceptical of the proposition that self-employed gigging really does represent the modern worker’s free choice.