North Korea fires ‘unidentified projectile’ into the sea
North Korea fires ‘unidentified projectile’ into the sea


North Korea fired a ballistic missile into the sea off its east coast early on Sunday, South Korea's military has claimed.

It is the first time the isolated state has tested such a device since US President Donald Trump took office.

The missile was launched from an area named Panghyon in North Korea's western region just before 11pm and flew about 300 miles, the South's Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said in statements.

'Our assessment is that it is part of a show of force in response to the new U.S. administration's hardline position against the North,' the office said.

North Korea has fired a ballistic missile into the sea today, according to South Korea, in a first weapons tests since Donald Trump took office

It comes as President Trump warned North Korea that defeating its nuclear threat was a ‘very high priority’ following a meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at the White House.

President Trump and Prime Minister Abe called on Kim Jong-un to ‘abandon’ his country’s nuclear missile programme and ‘not take any further provocative action’.

A joint statement said: ‘The US-Japan alliance is fully capable of ensuring the security of Japan.

'The United States is fully committed to defending its homeland, forces, and allies, through the full range of U.S. military capabilities.’

Kim Jong-un previously told his nation that Pyongyang is in the ‘final stages’ of being able to launch a nuclear missile.

US intelligence services believe he may be plotting a launch to ‘test’ the new President.

Meanwhile South Korea' military said Seoul and Washington were analyzing the details of the launch.

Yonhap News Agency said South Korea was assessing the launch to confirm whether it was a Musudan intermediate-range ballistic missile, which has a designed flight range of 1,800 miles.

The US military also said it had detected a missile test launch by the North and was assessing it, according to a US defence official in Washington.

The North tried to launch a Musudan eight times last year but most attempts failed.

It comes as President Trump, second right, and Japanese President Shinzo Abe, second left, pictured with wives Akie Abe and Melania Trump, called on the North Korean leader to 'abandon' his country's nuclear programme

One launch that sent a missile 250 miles, more than half the distance to Japan, was considered a success by officials and experts in the South and the United States.

South Korea's presidential Blue House said a National Security Council meeting was called and chaired by President Park Geun-hye's top national security advisor.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said in his New Year speech that the country was close to test-launching an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) and state media have said such a launch could come at any time.

The missile launched on Sunday did not appear to be an ICBM, Yonhap cited a South Korean military source as saying.

Kim's comments prompted a vow of an 'overwhelming' response from U.S. Defence Secretary James Mattis when he travelled to South Korea earlier this month.