Home Ministry Website Allegedly Hacked And Taken Offline On Sunday Morning, Officials Clueless!
Home Ministry Website Allegedly Hacked And Taken Offline On Sunday Morning, Officials Clueless!
Home Ministry Website Allegedly Hacked And Taken Offline On Sunday Morning, Officials Clueless! Days after a report on the lax cyber-security of central and state government websites, the Ministry of Home Affairs site has become the latest victim of cyber crime. Reports of the MHA web portal getting hacked emerged on Sunday morning. A PTI tweet also said that the MHA website was hacked. The PTI tweet quoted home ministry officials as saying that the website was hacked "prompting the authorities to temporarily block it." Ministry of Home Affairs ( #MHA ) website #hacked , prompting authorities to temporarily block it: officials. As soon as the hacking was detected, the MHA website was immediately blocked by the National Informatics Centre. Computer emergency response teams are looking into the incident, an official said. "We are not sure about the website being hacked. Pending investigation by the NIC, the website has been blocked," the officials said. In January, suspected Pakistan-affiliated operatives had hacked the official website of the elite National Security Guard (NSG) and defaced it with a profanity-laden message against the Prime Minister and anti-India content. Last week, the Home Ministry had said in a written report to the Lok Sabha that more than 700 websites of various central and state government departments were hacked in the past four years and a total of 8,348 persons were arrested for their involvement in cyber crimes.

Days after a report on the lax cyber-security of central and state government websites, the Ministry of Home Affairs site has become the latest victim of cyber crime. Reports of the MHA web portal getting hacked emerged on Sunday morning.

BCCL

A PTI tweet also said that the MHA website was hacked. The PTI tweet quoted home ministry officials as saying that the website was hacked "prompting the authorities to temporarily block it."

Ministry of Home Affairs (#MHA) website #hacked, prompting authorities to temporarily block it: officials. — Press Trust of India (@PTI_News) 12 February 2017

As soon as the hacking was detected, the MHA website was immediately blocked by the National Informatics Centre. Computer emergency response teams are looking into the incident, an official said.

"We are not sure about the website being hacked. Pending investigation by the NIC, the website has been blocked," the officials said.

Hackerworld/Representational Image

In January, suspected Pakistan-affiliated operatives had hacked the official website of the elite National Security Guard (NSG) and defaced it with a profanity-laden message against the Prime Minister and anti-India content.

Last week, the Home Ministry had said in a written report to the Lok Sabha that more than 700 websites of various central and state government departments were hacked in the past four years and a total of 8,348 persons were arrested for their involvement in cyber crimes.