A porn site decided to step in when this State voted against sex education
A porn site decided to step in when this State voted against sex education
Instead, they are sticking with their existing abstinence-based approach, with educators forbidden from advocating homosexuality, premarital sex or contraception. But as anyone who has ever been a teenager knows, this going to stop horny adolescents seeking out sex. And it's certainly not going to protect them from STI's or unwanted pregnancies. Which is why online porn giant xHamster is stepping up to the plate to educate the youth of today, and have set up their own sex education channel.  In a blog post , xHamster said: While we love porn, we don’t think that it should be relied on for sex ed any more than Star Wars is a substitute for science class. Earlier this month, Pornhub also launched their own sex ed channel . More sex education can only be a good thing, and hopefully we can move past the days of things like this: HT: and                    Keep scrolling for next article

Utah state representatives recently shot down a proposal to introduce a comprehensive sex education program into schools.

Instead, they are sticking with their existing abstinence-based approach, with educators forbidden from advocating homosexuality, premarital sex or contraception.

But as anyone who has ever been a teenager knows, this isn’t going to stop horny adolescents seeking out sex. And it's certainly not going to protect them from STI's or unwanted pregnancies.

Which is why online porn giant xHamster is stepping up to the plate to educate the youth of today, and have set up their own sex education channel.

Now when anyone in Utah goes to xHamster, they will automatically receive a pop-up asking if they want to first visit their sex ed video series The Box.

( xHamster )

In a blog post, xHamster said:

While we love porn, we don’t think that it should be relied on for sex ed any more than Star Wars is a substitute for science class.

Earlier this month, Pornhub also launched their own sex ed channel.

More sex education can only be a good thing, and hopefully we can move past the days of things like this:





HT: Salt Lake Tribune and Pink News

More: A map of the countries that watch the most porn

More: Bored man hacks into giant billboard so he can watch porn while stuck in traffic