Why Lee Holmes recommends WHOLEFOODS fasting
Is WHOLEFOODS fasting the key to a healthier life?


Thousands of health experts around the world have praised the benefits of intermittent fasting - two days per week of low calorie eating - for years.

And while many choose to fast on low calorie packaged junk foods, wellness guru and holistic nutritionist, Lee Holmes, is on a mission to help people fast while also enjoying a wholesome, healthy diet.

In her new book, Fast Your Way To Wellness, Ms Holmes guides people through different kinds of fasting - from cutting out food altogether to low, 500 - 600 calorie meal plans that combat hunger and tiredness.

While many choose to fast on low calorie packaged junk foods while fasting, holistic nutritionist Lee Holmes is on a mission to help people fast while also enjoying a healthy diet

'There are so many health benefits to fasting - I have been doing it twice a week for four years now,' Ms Holmes, a wholefoods chef, told Daily Mail Australia

'There are so many health benefits to fasting - I have been doing it twice a week for four years now,' Ms Holmes, a wholefoods chef, told Daily Mail Australia.

'In the beginning I did find it hard because I was always eating. Everyone is always snacking which ultimately means our body is never in fat burning mode.

'I started fasting when I decided to heal my gut through diet and it allowed me to give it a rest a couple of days a week. Within a few weeks I was feeling energetic and healthier.'

'I started fasting when I decided to heal my gut through diet and it allowed me to give it a rest a couple of days a week. Within a few weeks I was feeling energetic and healthier,' she said

In her book, Ms Holmes highlights a number of different fasting methods - including the 16:8 method which involves eating a low calorie diet within an eight hour window

Why is intermittent fasting twice per week beneficial? * It helps the body transform from 'sugar-burning' into 'fat-burning' mode * It balances your hormones - particularly those that balance hunger and satiety (insulin and leptin) * It ensures the body uses the food we consume more efficiently as energy * It ensures the body burns fat stores for energy, with cells deriving most of their energy from fat *It boosts your metabolism and energy levels

In her book, Ms Holmes highlights a number of different fasting methods - including the 16:8 method which involves eating a low calorie diet within an eight hour window.

For example, having a healthy breakfast at 11am, lunch at 2pm and dinner before 7pm.

Skipping breakfast twice a week is also a recommended approach and involves fasting over night for approximately 16 hours (eating dinner before 7pm and then having breakfast at around 11am).

'These are really beneficial ways of fasting and have really helped me lose weight - especially going through menopause as I am 50,' Ms Holmes said.

For those who fast throughout the day, Ms Holmes recommends 500 calories for women and 600 for men.

'These are really beneficial ways of fasting and have really helped me lose weight - especially going through menopause as I am 50,' Ms Holmes said

'People get really hungry and have low calorie junk food and some people abstain from food altogether which isn't good for you,' she said.

'Wholefood fasting is the best way to go as it is good for you and is beneficial for your body.'

Ms Holmes suggests preparing frozen fruit for smoothies and having a number of healthy foods in the fridge for fasting day including berries, yoghurt, lots of chopped vegetables, salmon and tuna.

Ms Holmes suggests preparing frozen fruit for smoothies and having a number of healthy foods in the fridge for fasting day including berries, yoghurt, lots of chopped vegetables, salmon and tuna

What is an average fasting day like for Lee? Before 11am: A cup of tea 11am: Some tuna with lots of greens like celery as well as carrot, tomato and cucumber with a teaspoon of olive oil 3pm: Some scrambled eggs 6pm: At dinner I will have some protein and lots of vegetables 8.30pm: Bedtime - an early night as it is a self care day

In terms of fasting effectively, Ms Holmes says it's crucial for people to understand their motivations behind fasting.

'Whether it's weight loss or cleansing or healing your gut, surviving the day is about thinking about your motivations,' she said.

She also says it's important that people make it through the entire day, as many go the whole day before 'blowing it.'

'The time to distract yourself is at night. This when you should drink lots of water or phone a friend or get an early night - anything to remove the focus and make it about self care,' Ms Holmes said.

'Listen to your body.'

In terms of fasting effectively, Ms Holmes says it's crucial for people to understand their motivations behind fasting

Ms Holmes, who says she notices a dramatic burst in energy and productivity on the day after fasting, says it's also important for people to enjoy good quality meals on the fasting day and to stay hydrated

Lee Holmes' book Fast Your Way To Wellness is on sale now for $29.99

Ms Holmes, who says she notices a dramatic burst in energy and productivity on the day after fasting, says it's also important for people to enjoy good quality meals on the fasting day and to stay hydrated.

'People should be drinking at least a litre of water a day and herbal teas,' Ms Holmes said.

'In addition, don't skimp on the fat, have fibre rich vegetables and use herbs and spices to flavour things.

'It really is a no-brainer. The day after a fast I notice an increase in brain power, my body is using energy more efficiently and I can function much better.'

Those who want to learn more about effective fasting and wholefoods fasting with healthy recipes can purchase Lee Holmes' book Fast Your Way To Wellness on her website now for $29.99.