Water Flowing Over Emergency Spillway at Tallest US Dam
Water Flowing Over Emergency Spillway at Tallest US Dam
Shares                Water started flowing over an emergency spillway at the nation's tallest dam, on Lake Oroville, for the first time Saturday after erosion damaged the Northern California dam's main spillway. Officials hoped to avoid using Oroville Dam's emergency spillway, fearing it could cause trees to fall and leave debris cascading into water that rushes through the Feather River, into the Sacramento River and on to the San Francisco Bay. Crews prepared for several days, clearing trees and brush. Water began running over the emergency spillway around 8 a.m., according to California's Department of Water Resources. It was the first time the emergency spillway has been used in the reservoir's nearly 50-year history. Water was expected to continuing flowing over the emergency spillway for 38 to 56 hours, agency spokesman Eric See said at a news conference Saturday afternoon. In addition to the emergency spillway, water is also flowing through the main spillway that was significantly damaged from erosion, he said. "This is a very unusual event for us here in Oroville," See said. Unexpected erosion chewed through the main spillway earlier this week, sending chunks of concrete flying and creating a 200-foot-long, 30-foot-deep hole that continues growing. Engineers don't know what caused the cave-in that is expected to keep getting bigger until it reaches bedrock. Bill Croyle, the Department of Water Resources' acting director, said officials are continuously monitoring the erosion both on site and through cameras. "This is mother nature kind of kicking us a few times here," he said. Croyle said the main spillway will need a "complete replacement" from the damage. Officials noted earlier this week that the cost of repairing the dam could approach $100 million, but they noted the estimate was an early, ballpark figure. Officials have stressed Oroville Dam is sound and there is no imminent threat to the public. State officials also had been attempting to rescue millions of hatchery-raised fish imperiled by muddy water flowing downstream alongside the damaged spillway after sections of its concrete walls collapsed earlier this week About 150 miles northeast of San Francisco, Lake Oroville is one of California's largest man-made lakes, and the 770-foot-tall Oroville Dam is the nation's tallest. The lake is a central piece of California's government-run water delivery network, supplying water for agriculture in the Central Valley and residents and businesses in Southern California. ——— Balsamo reported from Los Angeles. Shares                  Water Flowing Over Emergency Spillway at Tallest US Dam   White House Senior Adviser: 'The Judiciary is Not Supreme'   Ohio Critics Hope Bats Might Slow Down Pipeline Project   GOP Reps Face Town Hall Protests Over Obamacare Repeal Efforts   Next up in Ex-NFL Star's 2nd Murder Case: Jury Selection   Voters Reject 2026 Olympic Bid for St. Moritz, Davos   Standing Rock Sioux Ask Court to Halt DAPL Work   Pentagon Launches Effort to Solve a Baffling WWII Mystery   Woman Falls to Her Death Inside World Trade Center Oculus   Aftershocks Rattle Survivors After Philippine Quake Kills 8   Shoppers Weigh Boycott Calls as Buying Gets More Political   Officials Say Hamburg Airport Scare Was Likely Pepper Spray   Massive North Carolina Crowd Protests Trump, Anti-LGBT Law   Top Flynn Aide Denied Security Clearance by CIA for NSC Position   A Family Thing: Don't Mess With Political Dads and Daughters   Rockets Hit Baghdad's Green Zone After Protests Turn Violent   Melissa McCarthy Returns to 'SNL' as Sean Spicer   Dominican Paper Apologizes for Using Baldwin Photo for Trump   Piers Morgan, J.K. Rowling in Twitter Fight Over Politics   Conway's Comment on Ivanka Trump's Brand Being Blown 'Way Out of Proportion': White House Adviser   Top Democrat on Oversight Panel: Conway's Pitch for Ivanka Trump's Brand Was a 'Blatant' Violation   Single Mom Dresses as Dad for Son's ‘Dads and Doughnuts Day' at School   Stars and Royalty Hit the Red Carpet for UK Academy Awards   Fourth Muslim Group Rejects Federal Grant to Fight Extremism   How This Polyamorous Couple Plans to Celebrate Valentine's Day   Could Beyonce Finally Win Album of the Year at the Grammys?   Singer Katy Perry Has 'Given Up' on the Opinion of Others

Water started flowing over an emergency spillway at the nation's tallest dam, on Lake Oroville, for the first time Saturday after erosion damaged the Northern California dam's main spillway.

Officials hoped to avoid using Oroville Dam's emergency spillway, fearing it could cause trees to fall and leave debris cascading into water that rushes through the Feather River, into the Sacramento River and on to the San Francisco Bay. Crews prepared for several days, clearing trees and brush.

Water began running over the emergency spillway around 8 a.m., according to California's Department of Water Resources. It was the first time the emergency spillway has been used in the reservoir's nearly 50-year history.

Water was expected to continuing flowing over the emergency spillway for 38 to 56 hours, agency spokesman Eric See said at a news conference Saturday afternoon. In addition to the emergency spillway, water is also flowing through the main spillway that was significantly damaged from erosion, he said.

"This is a very unusual event for us here in Oroville," See said.

Unexpected erosion chewed through the main spillway earlier this week, sending chunks of concrete flying and creating a 200-foot-long, 30-foot-deep hole that continues growing. Engineers don't know what caused the cave-in that is expected to keep getting bigger until it reaches bedrock.

Bill Croyle, the Department of Water Resources' acting director, said officials are continuously monitoring the erosion both on site and through cameras. "This is mother nature kind of kicking us a few times here," he said.

Croyle said the main spillway will need a "complete replacement" from the damage. Officials noted earlier this week that the cost of repairing the dam could approach $100 million, but they noted the estimate was an early, ballpark figure.

Officials have stressed Oroville Dam is sound and there is no imminent threat to the public.

State officials also had been attempting to rescue millions of hatchery-raised fish imperiled by muddy water flowing downstream alongside the damaged spillway after sections of its concrete walls collapsed earlier this week

About 150 miles northeast of San Francisco, Lake Oroville is one of California's largest man-made lakes, and the 770-foot-tall Oroville Dam is the nation's tallest. The lake is a central piece of California's government-run water delivery network, supplying water for agriculture in the Central Valley and residents and businesses in Southern California.

———

Balsamo reported from Los Angeles.