Massive North Carolina Crowd Protests Trump, Anti-LGBT Law
Massive North Carolina Crowd Protests Trump, Anti-LGBT Law
Shares                A massive crowd energized in opposition to President Donald Trump and to a state law limiting LGBT rights streamed into North Carolina's capital for an annual civil rights march on Saturday.   The "Moral March on Raleigh" in downtown Raleigh was led by the North Carolina NAACP for an 11th year. Participants carried signs promoting issues from gerrymandering and immigration to public education. Raleigh police don't provide crowd estimates. Event organizers predicted 20,000 people. The surface area that the crowd covered neared the march's previous peak from 2014. Saturday's protesters also want to see a repeal of House Bill 2, which limits LGBT rights and which bathrooms transgender people can use. Shares                  Massive North Carolina Crowd Protests Trump, Anti-LGBT Law   White House Senior Adviser: 'The Judiciary is Not Supreme'   Ohio Critics Hope Bats Might Slow Down Pipeline Project   GOP Reps Face Town Hall Protests Over Obamacare Repeal Efforts   Next up in Ex-NFL Star's 2nd Murder Case: Jury Selection   Voters Reject 2026 Olympic Bid for St. Moritz, Davos   Standing Rock Sioux Ask Court to Halt DAPL Work   Pentagon Launches Effort to Solve a Baffling WWII Mystery   Woman Falls to Her Death Inside World Trade Center Oculus   Aftershocks Rattle Survivors After Philippine Quake Kills 8   Shoppers Weigh Boycott Calls as Buying Gets More Political   Officials Say Hamburg Airport Scare Was Likely Pepper Spray   Top Flynn Aide Denied Security Clearance by CIA for NSC Position   A Family Thing: Don't Mess With Political Dads and Daughters   Rockets Hit Baghdad's Green Zone After Protests Turn Violent   Melissa McCarthy Returns to 'SNL' as Sean Spicer   Dominican Paper Apologizes for Using Baldwin Photo for Trump   Piers Morgan, J.K. Rowling in Twitter Fight Over Politics   Conway's Comment on Ivanka Trump's Brand Being Blown 'Way Out of Proportion': White House Adviser   Top Democrat on Oversight Panel: Conway's Pitch for Ivanka Trump's Brand Was a 'Blatant' Violation   Single Mom Dresses as Dad for Son's ‘Dads and Doughnuts Day' at School   Stars and Royalty Hit the Red Carpet for UK Academy Awards   Fourth Muslim Group Rejects Federal Grant to Fight Extremism   How This Polyamorous Couple Plans to Celebrate Valentine's Day   Could Beyonce Finally Win Album of the Year at the Grammys?   Singer Katy Perry Has 'Given Up' on the Opinion of Others

A massive crowd energized in opposition to President Donald Trump and to a state law limiting LGBT rights streamed into North Carolina's capital for an annual civil rights march on Saturday.

The Associated Press

The "Moral March on Raleigh" in downtown Raleigh was led by the North Carolina NAACP for an 11th year. Participants carried signs promoting issues from gerrymandering and immigration to public education.

Raleigh police don't provide crowd estimates. Event organizers predicted 20,000 people. The surface area that the crowd covered neared the march's previous peak from 2014.

Saturday's protesters also want to see a repeal of House Bill 2, which limits LGBT rights and which bathrooms transgender people can use.