Northeast gears up for more blizzard conditions
Northeast braces for blizzard conditions; West Coast drenched 
Northeast gears up for more blizzard conditions Updated 1655 GMT (0055 HKT) February 12, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (13 Videos) Story highlights Boston could surpass its yearly snowfall average this week, and it's only February National Weather Service: Bay Area has experienced wettest winter season in over 100 years New England is bracing for yet another blizzard, the latest salvo in what has already been an unrelenting winter in the Northeast. Northeast U.S. bracing for another round of #wind & #snow Sun-Mon as strong Nor'easter develops off Northeast coast. https://t.co/GIrv1srJLh  pic.twitter.com/EUJppoSDBR Thundersnow Who's ready for more #Thundersnow ? The setup looks favorable Mon morning for #MA & #RI as a coastal storm intensifies rapidly near Cape Cod! JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH West Coast gets drenched Rainfall totals for North San Francisco #BayArea #Napa  #Kentfield wettest winter season - to date - in over 100 years #SanRafael 2nd wettest pic.twitter.com/QzUSvXftOX CNN's Joe Sutton contributed to this report.

Story highlights Boston could surpass its yearly snowfall average this week, and it's only February

National Weather Service: Bay Area has experienced wettest winter season in over 100 years

(CNN) New England is bracing for yet another blizzard, the latest salvo in what has already been an unrelenting winter in the Northeast.

The National Weather Service issued a winter storm warning Sunday for a large swath of the region, including portions of New York state, Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts and Maine -- an area that's home to more than 15 million people.

The agency warned that Portland, Maine, could see as much as 26 inches of snow.

"That's the bullseye," said CNN meteorologist Allison Chinchar, who added the snow there will begin around 1 p.m. and continue into Monday.

Projected snowfalls for Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island.

In Boston, about 100 miles south, early afternoon rain will turn to snow around 3 p.m., according to Chinchar.