Gangs of French Youth Clash With Police in Paris Suburb
Gangs of French Youth Clash With Police in Paris Suburb
Shares                A peaceful demonstration protesting the alleged rape of a black youth by police has degenerated, with small groups setting at least one vehicle afire and throwing projectiles at police in a Paris suburb. Officers responded with tear gas. Hundreds demonstrated Saturday by the courthouse in the northeast Paris suburb of Bobigny, calling for justice for the 22-year-old man arrested Feb. 2 in Aulnay-Sous-Bois during a ID check by four police officers. The young man — who is still hospitalized — says he was sodomized with a police baton. The situation has sparked a week of nightly unrest in several small towns with minority populations. One officer was charged with aggravated rape and three others with aggravated assault. All deny the allegations. An RTL radio van was set ablaze Saturday in the unrest. Shares                  Gangs of French Youth Clash With Police in Paris Suburb   White House Senior Adviser: 'The Judiciary is Not Supreme'   Ohio Critics Hope Bats Might Slow Down Pipeline Project   GOP Reps Face Town Hall Protests Over Obamacare Repeal Efforts   Next up in Ex-NFL Star's 2nd Murder Case: Jury Selection   Voters Reject 2026 Olympic Bid for St. Moritz, Davos   Standing Rock Sioux Ask Court to Halt DAPL Work   Pentagon Launches Effort to Solve a Baffling WWII Mystery   Woman Falls to Her Death Inside World Trade Center Oculus   Aftershocks Rattle Survivors After Philippine Quake Kills 8   Shoppers Weigh Boycott Calls as Buying Gets More Political   Officials Say Hamburg Airport Scare Was Likely Pepper Spray   Massive North Carolina Crowd Protests Trump, Anti-LGBT Law   Top Flynn Aide Denied Security Clearance by CIA for NSC Position   A Family Thing: Don't Mess With Political Dads and Daughters   Rockets Hit Baghdad's Green Zone After Protests Turn Violent   Melissa McCarthy Returns to 'SNL' as Sean Spicer   Dominican Paper Apologizes for Using Baldwin Photo for Trump   Piers Morgan, J.K. Rowling in Twitter Fight Over Politics   Conway's Comment on Ivanka Trump's Brand Being Blown 'Way Out of Proportion': White House Adviser   Top Democrat on Oversight Panel: Conway's Pitch for Ivanka Trump's Brand Was a 'Blatant' Violation   Single Mom Dresses as Dad for Son's ‘Dads and Doughnuts Day' at School   Stars and Royalty Hit the Red Carpet for UK Academy Awards   Fourth Muslim Group Rejects Federal Grant to Fight Extremism   How This Polyamorous Couple Plans to Celebrate Valentine's Day   Could Beyonce Finally Win Album of the Year at the Grammys?   Singer Katy Perry Has 'Given Up' on the Opinion of Others

A peaceful demonstration protesting the alleged rape of a black youth by police has degenerated, with small groups setting at least one vehicle afire and throwing projectiles at police in a Paris suburb. Officers responded with tear gas.

Hundreds demonstrated Saturday by the courthouse in the northeast Paris suburb of Bobigny, calling for justice for the 22-year-old man arrested Feb. 2 in Aulnay-Sous-Bois during a ID check by four police officers.

The young man — who is still hospitalized — says he was sodomized with a police baton. The situation has sparked a week of nightly unrest in several small towns with minority populations.

One officer was charged with aggravated rape and three others with aggravated assault. All deny the allegations.

An RTL radio van was set ablaze Saturday in the unrest.