KKK Imperial Wizard Found Dead on a Missouri Riverbank
KKK Imperial Wizard Found Dead on a Misouri Riverbank
Shares               The body of a Ku Klux Klan leader who had been missing for several days was found on a Missouri riverbank, according to police . Frank Ancona, who was a 51-year-old self-proclaimed imperial wizard of a KKK chapter near St. Louis, according to a website promoting the group, was found dead by a family who had gone to the Big River in Missouri to go fishing, according to Daily Journal, a local newspaper. Ancona was last seen heading for work on Wednesday morning by his wife, the Daily Journal reported . The Washington County Sheriff's Office referred ABC News to a statement about Ancona's death on their Facebook page. "On Friday the Washington County Sheriff's Office learned of the disappearance of Frank Ancona who was missing from Leadwood Missouri. During this time, we were also informed Mr. Ancona's vehicle had been located by a United States Federal Forest Service employee on Federal Forest Service Property," the statement, which is attributed to Sheriff Zach Jacobsen, begins. Jacobsen said that his office reached out to Missouri State Highway Patrol for help with the case on Ancona's disappearance. During the investigation that followed, he said, one subject was arrested on an unrelated warrant and two search warrants were executed in Washington County, Missouri. After the body was found, it was taken by the Washington County Corner's Office for an autopsy, where it was identified as Ancona, Jacobsen said. A cause of death has not been released at this time, Jacobsen said. "The Washington County Sheriff's Office would like to extend our sympathy to Mr. Ancona's family and friends. I would like to thank the Missouri State Highway Patrol, the Franklin County Sheriff"s Office and the Saint Francois County Sheriff's Office for their assistance and professionalism during this tragic and senseless act of violence. I would also like to thank my staff for the professionalism and dedication they show day in and day out for our great community, and to the citizens of Missouri," the statement concludes. Ancona had conducted interviews with media, speaking on behalf of the Klu Klux Klan in the past. In 2014, he appeared on the MSNBC show "All In" with Chris Hayes, in which he defended fliers that the Klan distributed during the protests that took place in Ferguson, Missouri, that year. The fliers threatened "lethal force" against "terrorists masquerading as 'peaceful protesters.'" Shares                  KKK Imperial Wizard Found Dead on a Misouri Riverbank   White House Senior Adviser: 'The Judiciary is Not Supreme'   Ohio Critics Hope Bats Might Slow Down Pipeline Project   GOP Reps Face Town Hall Protests Over Obamacare Repeal Efforts   Next up in Ex-NFL Star's 2nd Murder Case: Jury Selection   Voters Reject 2026 Olympic Bid for St. Moritz, Davos   Standing Rock Sioux Ask Court to Halt DAPL Work   Pentagon Launches Effort to Solve a Baffling WWII Mystery   Woman Falls to Her Death Inside World Trade Center Oculus   Aftershocks Rattle Survivors After Philippine Quake Kills 8   Shoppers Weigh Boycott Calls as Buying Gets More Political   Officials Say Hamburg Airport Scare Was Likely Pepper Spray   Massive North Carolina Crowd Protests Trump, Anti-LGBT Law   Top Flynn Aide Denied Security Clearance by CIA for NSC Position   A Family Thing: Don't Mess With Political Dads and Daughters   Rockets Hit Baghdad's Green Zone After Protests Turn Violent   Melissa McCarthy Returns to 'SNL' as Sean Spicer   Dominican Paper Apologizes for Using Baldwin Photo for Trump   Piers Morgan, J.K. Rowling in Twitter Fight Over Politics   Conway's Comment on Ivanka Trump's Brand Being Blown 'Way Out of Proportion': White House Adviser   Top Democrat on Oversight Panel: Conway's Pitch for Ivanka Trump's Brand Was a 'Blatant' Violation   Single Mom Dresses as Dad for Son's ‘Dads and Doughnuts Day' at School   Viola Davis Wins Best Supporting Actress at UK Awards   Fourth Muslim Group Rejects Federal Grant to Fight Extremism   How This Polyamorous Couple Plans to Celebrate Valentine's Day   Could Beyonce Finally Win Album of the Year at the Grammys?   Singer Katy Perry Has 'Given Up' on the Opinion of Others

The body of a Ku Klux Klan leader who had been missing for several days was found on a Missouri riverbank, according to police.

Frank Ancona, who was a 51-year-old self-proclaimed imperial wizard of a KKK chapter near St. Louis, according to a website promoting the group, was found dead by a family who had gone to the Big River in Missouri to go fishing, according to Daily Journal, a local newspaper.

Ancona was last seen heading for work on Wednesday morning by his wife, the Daily Journal reported.

The Washington County Sheriff's Office referred ABC News to a statement about Ancona's death on their Facebook page.

"On Friday the Washington County Sheriff's Office learned of the disappearance of Frank Ancona who was missing from Leadwood Missouri. During this time, we were also informed Mr. Ancona's vehicle had been located by a United States Federal Forest Service employee on Federal Forest Service Property," the statement, which is attributed to Sheriff Zach Jacobsen, begins.

Jacobsen said that his office reached out to Missouri State Highway Patrol for help with the case on Ancona's disappearance. During the investigation that followed, he said, one subject was arrested on an unrelated warrant and two search warrants were executed in Washington County, Missouri.

After the body was found, it was taken by the Washington County Corner's Office for an autopsy, where it was identified as Ancona, Jacobsen said.

A cause of death has not been released at this time, Jacobsen said.

"The Washington County Sheriff's Office would like to extend our sympathy to Mr. Ancona's family and friends. I would like to thank the Missouri State Highway Patrol, the Franklin County Sheriff"s Office and the Saint Francois County Sheriff's Office for their assistance and professionalism during this tragic and senseless act of violence. I would also like to thank my staff for the professionalism and dedication they show day in and day out for our great community, and to the citizens of Missouri," the statement concludes.

Ancona had conducted interviews with media, speaking on behalf of the Klu Klux Klan in the past.

In 2014, he appeared on the MSNBC show "All In" with Chris Hayes, in which he defended fliers that the Klan distributed during the protests that took place in Ferguson, Missouri, that year.

The fliers threatened "lethal force" against "terrorists masquerading as 'peaceful protesters.'"