Melissa McCarthy is back and super mad as Sean Spicer on 'SNL'
Melissa McCarthy is back and super mad as Sean Spicer on 'SNL'
Melissa McCarthy returned to to bring us the gift that is her impression of White House Press Secretary Sean "Spicy" Spicer — and things got physical. McCarthy opened the night's briefing by assuring the press corps that they needn't worry: This was going to be the "new Spicy." A calm Spicy. One that definitely wouldn't throw wads of chewed gum at reporters and attack them with a leaf blower. SEE ALSO: Twitter's backend is breaking under Trump's tweets Cutting back on the gum to just one piece this week. #SNL  pic.twitter.com/E6XjzLunFs — Saturday Night Live (@nbcsnl) February 12, 2017 But of course, old habits die hard. After stumbling through the pronunciation of a leader's name from "Kahaga…kagahastan," McCarthy opened up the floor for questions, fielding one from Glenn Thrush and his "stupid hat" about Friday's court ruling against the Trump administration's travel ban. If the appeals court won't do what's right, President Trump will see them in court. Specifically, , McCarthy said. And the "Press Secretary" finally added some much-needed clarity on exactly which type of immigrant would be allowed into the country, using dolls. Couldn't make this any more clear. #SNL  pic.twitter.com/7i1rHvsi7V — Saturday Night Live (@nbcsnl) February 12, 2017 Easy rule of thumb? Barbie = good. Moana = bad. And Nordstrom = super bad. The department store caught hell from Trump on Twitter this week for dropping his daughter Ivanka's fashion and accessory line, so McCarthy took the opportunity to hawk some of the younger Trump's wares — poking fun at a real Kellyanne Conway moment on Fox News. "Elizabeth Warren came at me like a porcupine..." #SNL  pic.twitter.com/M1tn4hadIT — Saturday Night Live (@nbcsnl) February 12, 2017 The press corps also got to meet the country's newest attorney general, former Senator Jeff Sessions, played by a white-haired Kate McKinnon with a thick southern drawl. "We all know there's two kinds of crime: regular and black," McKinnon said before McCarthy rushed her off stage. If the rumors are true , Trump will be none too pleased to have two of his top guys skewered on TV by women. BONUS: This wearable airbag could save your life

Melissa McCarthy returned to Saturday Night Live to bring us the gift that is her impression of White House Press Secretary Sean "Spicy" Spicer — and things got physical.

McCarthy opened the night's briefing by assuring the press corps that they needn't worry: This was going to be the "new Spicy." A calm Spicy. One that definitely wouldn't throw wads of chewed gum at reporters and attack them with a leaf blower.

Cutting back on the gum to just one piece this week. #SNL pic.twitter.com/E6XjzLunFs — Saturday Night Live (@nbcsnl) February 12, 2017

But of course, old habits die hard. After stumbling through the pronunciation of a leader's name from "Kahaga…kagahastan," McCarthy opened up the floor for questions, fielding one from The New York Times' Glenn Thrush and his "stupid hat" about Friday's court ruling against the Trump administration's travel ban.

If the appeals court won't do what's right, President Trump will see them in court. Specifically, The People's Court, McCarthy said.

And the "Press Secretary" finally added some much-needed clarity on exactly which type of immigrant would be allowed into the country, using dolls.

Easy rule of thumb? Barbie = good. Moana = bad. And Nordstrom = super bad.

The department store caught hell from Trump on Twitter this week for dropping his daughter Ivanka's fashion and accessory line, so McCarthy took the opportunity to hawk some of the younger Trump's wares — poking fun at a real Kellyanne Conway moment on Fox News.

"Elizabeth Warren came at me like a porcupine..." #SNL pic.twitter.com/M1tn4hadIT — Saturday Night Live (@nbcsnl) February 12, 2017

The press corps also got to meet the country's newest attorney general, former Senator Jeff Sessions, played by a white-haired Kate McKinnon with a thick southern drawl.

"We all know there's two kinds of crime: regular and black," McKinnon said before McCarthy rushed her off stage.

If the rumors are true, Trump will be none too pleased to have two of his top guys skewered on TV by women.