Majority of 161 People Arrested in Recent ICE Raids Have Criminal Histories

Majority of 161 People Arrested in Recent ICE Raids Have Criminal Histories // // // // ICE: 161 people arrested in raids; 75 percent had prior felony convictions. pic.twitter.com/0COH8w8UeG — Fox News (@FoxNews) February 11, 2017 Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials arrested 161 people during a five-day raid this past week in Southern California . Of those, approximately 75 percent have past criminal histories. Others were arrested since they were found to be undocumented as other arrests were taking place, said David Marin, director of Enforcement and Removal Operations for ICE in Los Angeles. According to ICE , these raids were "routine" and were planned before President Donald Trump took office. Democratic state lawmakers denounced the arrests and urged immigrants to know their rights and what to do if approached by federal authorities. The arrests sparked a protest in downtown Los Angeles on Thursday evening. ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said it was not immediately clear how many of those arrested had been deported.

ICE: 161 people arrested in raids; 75 percent had prior felony convictions. pic.twitter.com/0COH8w8UeG — Fox News (@FoxNews) February 11, 2017

Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials arrested 161 people during a five-day raid this past week in Southern California.

Of those, approximately 75 percent have past criminal histories. Others were arrested since they were found to be undocumented as other arrests were taking place, said David Marin, director of Enforcement and Removal Operations for ICE in Los Angeles.

O'Reilly on 'Watters' World': The Far Left 'Just Hates' President Trump

72% of Refugees Admitted After Travel Ban Reprieve Are from 7 Muslim-Majority Countries

Gutfeld Bashes Appeals Court Upholding Suspension of Trump's Travel Ban

According to ICE, these raids were "routine" and were planned before President Donald Trump took office.

Democratic state lawmakers denounced the arrests and urged immigrants to know their rights and what to do if approached by federal authorities. The arrests sparked a protest in downtown Los Angeles on Thursday evening.

ICE spokeswoman Virginia Kice said it was not immediately clear how many of those arrested had been deported.

Several GOP States Move to Block Their Own Funding to Sanctuary Cities

Lindsay Lohan Wants Meeting with Trump, Putin to Solve Syrian Refugee Crisis

WATCH: Former Marine Posts Warning From Iraq After Travel Ban Uproar