10 Artists You Won’t Believe Have Never Won A Grammy For Album Of The Year
10 Artists You Won't Believe Have Never Won A Grammy For Album Of The Year
Album of the Year is the Grammys’ most coveted category. Many greats — like Barbra Streisand, Michael Jackson, and the Beatles — have won. And a few — like Frank Sinatra, Stevie Wonder, and Taylor Swift — have managed to win more than once. 

But here are 10 legends who still don’t have an Album of the Year Grammy. Mariah Carey Even though Carey was nominated for Album of the Year three times for , , , she still has never won. Perfect pitch, five-octave vocal range, multiplatinum-selling albums, but no AOY Grammy. Prince Prince was nominated for and , but lost both times. Yes. Lost. Beyoncé marks the third time Beyoncé has been nominated for Album of the Year (she was also nominated for and ). But she has never taken home the trophy. Like, how? Missy Elliott Elliott was nominated in 2004 for , but she didn’t win. She was never nominated again despite her groundbreaking career as both an artist and producer. Kanye West West is one of two solo artists to receive the Album of the Year nomination for their first three albums. Still, he has never won the category. It’s almost enough to make someone…storm a stage? Shania Twain Twain is one of the biggest-selling country artists ever, but she’s somehow never been awarded Album of the Year. She was nominated once in 1999 for . Dolly Parton Parton is the most honored female country performer of all time, yet she has only ever received one AOY nomination (in 1988 for a collaboration album, , with Linda Ronstadt and Emmylou Harris). It just doesn’t add up. Janet Jackson Janet has slayed the industry for three decades and was nominated once for AOY for her hit album in 1987. But she didn’t win. Madonna Madonna was nominated once for in 1999, but she didn’t win AOY that year or ever, even though she’s one to the top-five-selling artists of all time. Lady Gaga Gaga is the other solo artist to receive Album of the Year nominations for their first three albums. But she also has never won in the category. What a bad romance.   Netflix Just Announced The Premiere Date For The Next...    Netflix's "Dear White People" Teaser Tackles Halloween...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.