Northeast Braces for High Winds, Blizzard Conditions — Again
Here we go again: Northeast braces for another big snowstorm
Just days after residents finished digging themselves out after a winter storm blanketed much of the region with heavy snow, another storm is threatening to do it all over again. The National Weather Service issued winter storm warnings for much of upstate New York, New Jersey, Maine and Vermont beginning at 2 a.m. ET Monday. The storm is expected to intensify through Monday, resulting in heavy snow and high winds that could lead to dangerous conditions on the roads, possible flight delays and power outages. Already airports across the country have made announcements that are sure to earn the ire of travelers. According to FlightAware , more than 4,000 flights have been delayed and nearly 1,000 have been canceled altogether. Meanwhile, parts of Maine are under blizzard warnings from 7 p.m. Sunday to 5 a.m. ET on Tuesday, and could see 18-24 inches of snow, the National Weather Service warned. Winter weather advisories have been issued for portions of coastal and southeastern New York including New York City, northern New Jersey, coastal southern New England, northeastern Pennsylvania and portions of western New York. Upstate New York and northern New England are expected to see at least 6 inches of snow, according to the Weather Channel. Coastal areas in the region could also see flooding. The storm is also expected to bring strong winds to a broader area of the Northeast and Appalachians that had not been seeing wintry weather. Winds gusting up to 60 mph are possible in New York City, Philadelphia and Washington D.C., as well as parts of the Appalachians, Sunday and Monday. In parts of New England, snowfall could increase on Monday, possibly moving from 1 inch an hour on Sunday to 2-4 inches on Monday. In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo urged residents, particularly those upstate, to prepare for the storm, and directed state agencies to deploy resources in advance of its arrival. The earlier storm blanketed much of the region in over a foot of snow, left more than 50,000 people without power and resulted in numerous flight delays. For those in the Northeast who still haven't had their fill of winter weather after the latest storm passes, they may not have long to wait for more. The Weather Channel warns that there is another storm system to watch mid-late next week that could deliver more harsh weather.

Just days after residents finished digging themselves out after a winter storm blanketed much of the region with heavy snow, another storm is threatening to do it all over again.

The National Weather Service issued winter storm warnings for much of upstate New York, New Jersey, Maine and Vermont beginning at 2 a.m. ET Monday.

The storm is expected to intensify through Monday, resulting in heavy snow and high winds that could lead to dangerous conditions on the roads, possible flight delays and power outages.

Weather Channel

Already airports across the country have made announcements that are sure to earn the ire of travelers. According to FlightAware, more than 4,000 flights have been delayed and nearly 1,000 have been canceled altogether.

Meanwhile, parts of Maine are under blizzard warnings from 7 p.m. Sunday to 5 a.m. ET on Tuesday, and could see 18-24 inches of snow, the National Weather Service warned.

Winter weather advisories have been issued for portions of coastal and southeastern New York including New York City, northern New Jersey, coastal southern New England, northeastern Pennsylvania and portions of western New York.

Upstate New York and northern New England are expected to see at least 6 inches of snow, according to the Weather Channel. Coastal areas in the region could also see flooding.

The storm is also expected to bring strong winds to a broader area of the Northeast and Appalachians that had not been seeing wintry weather.

Winds gusting up to 60 mph are possible in New York City, Philadelphia and Washington D.C., as well as parts of the Appalachians, Sunday and Monday.

In parts of New England, snowfall could increase on Monday, possibly moving from 1 inch an hour on Sunday to 2-4 inches on Monday.

In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo urged residents, particularly those upstate, to prepare for the storm, and directed state agencies to deploy resources in advance of its arrival.

The earlier storm blanketed much of the region in over a foot of snow, left more than 50,000 people without power and resulted in numerous flight delays.

For those in the Northeast who still haven't had their fill of winter weather after the latest storm passes, they may not have long to wait for more. The Weather Channel warns that there is another storm system to watch mid-late next week that could deliver more harsh weather.