Watch Alec Baldwin Break Record for Most 'Saturday Night Live' Hosting Gigs
Watch Alec Baldwin Break Record for Most 'Saturday Night Live' Hosting Gigs
Grammys 2017: Watch Billboard's Red Carpet Live Stream Show at the Grammy Museum Grammy Week 2017: Photos From All the Parties Grammy Awards 2017: What Each Album of the Year Nominee Win Would Mean Grammys Add First Man, Transgender Woman as Trophy Presenters Watch Alec Baldwin Break Record for Most 'Saturday Night Live' Hosting Gigs  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Alec Baldwin has won a number of Emmys and Golden Globes -- and he's been nominated for an Oscar -- but on the Feb. 11 episode ofÂ ,Â Baldwin won an impressive new honor: breaking the record for mostÂ Â hosting gigs. "This is my 17th time. That's an achievement that only comes if you're a comedy icon like Steve Martin, or an enduring character actor like John Goodman, or if you were lucky enough to be in the car in 1987 when Lorne Michaels ran over the guy selling oranges by the side of the highway. But I'm proud to say that 17 is the all-time record." Joined onstage by youngestÂ Â cast member Pete Davidson, Baldwin reminisced about his earlier appearances, where -- as Davidson pointed out repeatedly -- he was much younger, and much, much more handsome. "At least I got to look that way once," Baldwin responded, "instead of spending my youth looking like Steve Buscemi's lesbian sister."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Alec Baldwin has won a number of Emmys and Golden Globes -- and he's been nominated for an Oscar -- but on the Feb. 11 episode ofÂ Saturday Night Live,Â Baldwin won an impressive new honor: breaking the record for mostÂ SNLÂ hosting gigs.



"This is my 17th time. That's an achievement that only comes if you're a comedy icon like Steve Martin, or an enduring character actor like John Goodman, or if you were lucky enough to be in the car in 1987 when Lorne Michaels ran over the guy selling oranges by the side of the highway. But I'm proud to say that 17 is the all-time record."



Joined onstage by youngestÂ SNLÂ cast member Pete Davidson, Baldwin reminisced about his earlier appearances, where -- as Davidson pointed out repeatedly -- he was much younger, and much, much more handsome.



"At least I got to look that way once," Baldwin responded, "instead of spending my youth looking like Steve Buscemi's lesbian sister."