Bafta Awards 2017 - Why the Baftas wouldn’t be as British without Stephen Fry as host
Bafta Awards 2017 - Why the Baftas wouldn’t
be as British without Stephen Fry as host
The Oscars can keep their razzmatazz, says – Stephen Fry’s the man for us t all went a bit wrong for Stephen Fry at the British Academy Film Awards last year. As Jenny Beavan walked off stage having picked up the Bafta for Best Costume Design, Fry, who was hosting the event for the 11th time, said: “Only one of the great cinematic costume designers would come to an awards ceremony dressed as a bag lady.” Beavan, who was wearing a leather jacket and scarf, wasn’t at all offended – she and Fry have known each other for years – but plenty of people were extremely cross on her behalf. ry was immediately pilloried on social media, with people branding him “spiteful”, “savage” and, perhaps worst of all, “horrid”. He later quit Twitter, not for the first time, claiming that he also wanted to “leave the planet”. ell, it’s a good thing he didn’t, because tonight is the 70th British Academy Film Awards and we jolly well need him here. His misstep last year was surprising, chiefly because it was so unlike him to misjudge the tone; the remark jarred because it was devoid of the elegance and subtlety that we have come to expect from Fry. Essentially, he became a victim of his own success. But calls for him to be replaced were premature. Put simply, Bafta just doesn’t trust anybody else to do the job properly. “It is a harder job than it looks,” says BBC arts editor Will Gompertz. “Broadly speaking, Stephen Fry gets it about right. He’s interested in film‑making; he’s a good writer himself; he’s a decent actor. So I think he is a believable host.” ever mind all the Hollywood stars who will flood into the Royal Albert Hall later this evening – the Baftas is a thoroughly British occasion. Not for us the all-singing, all-dancing back‑slapping jamboree witnessed each year at the Oscars. During his opening monologue in 2012, Fry said: “As a rule, we don’t do musical song-and-dance numbers here at Bafta because, well, let’s be honest, song-and-dance numbers at awards shows are usually a toe-curling, ear-wriggling, buttock-clenching, eye‑watering embarrassment that make you want to chew your own legs off.” Hear, hear. Take Hugh Jackman and Anne Hathaway’s number at the 2009 Oscars, when the pair sang and twirled each other around the stage. The act was so elaborate and indulgent, it’s a miracle there was any time left to hand out the awards. he Baftas is an altogether more sophisticated affair than the Oscars and Fry can be relied upon to perform his duties as host with just the right combination of warmth and good‑natured disdain for an industry not famous for its humility. “To some extent, your job is to tease,” says Gompertz. But Fry wouldn’t be so crass as to lob a stick of verbal dynamite at the manicured faces in the VIP seats, as Ricky Gervais memorably did in 2010 when he hosted the Golden Globes (a performance so headline-grabbing that Gervais was invited back to host a further three ceremonies). If required, though, Fry can deliver an ego-pricking barb when he needs to. In 2014, for example, he described actress Gillian Anderson as “utterly bilingual; she speaks fluent English and flawless American”. Fry can get away with this because he stands just far enough away from the film industry’s inner circle. That is not to say he is an outsider – far from it. He studied English Literature at Cambridge, was a prominent member of the Footlights, and starred in British comedy classics Jeeves and Wooster and Blackadder. He hosted BBC Two quiz show QI for 11 years and voiced all seven Harry Potter audiobooks. He is also seemingly on the dinner party guest list of every luvvie in town. ut unlike his long-time collaborator Hugh Laurie, Fry has never out-and-out courted Hollywood. It is easier, then, for him to poke fun at a world in which he is not fully immersed. “We are so proud of [James Bond],” he said in 2012. “An enduring collaboration of dashing British style and eccentricity, and that very special American quality of – oh, what’s the word – money.” It is worth noting, though, that Fry recently moved to LA and is the star of American sitcom The Great Indoors. “It will be interesting to see if that changes his insights in any way,” says Gompertz. My guess is that Fry won’t give a fig what the LA set think. He also has that rare knack of articulating exactly what the majority of viewers are thinking. He can be too pompous, as when he needlessly corrected the grammar of American film director David O Russell: “If you’re going to win for writing, you can at least speak properly.” But one always feels that Fry is fundamentally on our side and he always lets us in on the joke. In typically British style, he is no fan of over-emotional acceptance speeches. “Winners of awards are, of course, completely free to break down and cry during their acceptance speeches,” he said in 2001. “But do bear in mind that I am also free to vomit.” Sitting rooms across the country no doubt erupted in cheers of agreement. ry hosted the Baftas from 2001-06, before handing over to Jonathan Ross in 2007. Ross is an altogether different beast – cocksure and uncouth – and, though his reign lasted five years, the Baftas never felt quite right with this anarchic captain at the helm. Ross is a much better fit for the British Comedy Awards, which he has hosted almost every year since 1991, where things invariably come apart at the seams as the evening progresses. But it always felt as if he was just one over-exuberant joke away from wrecking the Baftas. On the contrary, Fry, with his lugubrious mannerisms and headmasterly tone, is much the safer pair of hands for British film’s biggest night of the year. One of his finest moments came in 2006, when he really did affect the role of headmaster, handing out “commendations” to the famous faces in the crowd. The whole concept – prefects, house captains, cookery classes – was so unashamedly British, it left those from across the Atlantic perplexed, which on Baftas night is just how it should be. Making reference to Brokeback Mountain, in which Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal played shepherds, Fry said: “Commendations also to prefects Ledger and Gyllenhaal, who did such a good job over the school holidays of looking after the school sheep.” You simply wouldn’t hear a line like that from anyone else at any other awards ceremony. The full line-up of attendees can be found below: Nominees: aron Taylor-Johnson, Amy Adams, Andrea Arnold , Andrew Garfield, Anya Taylor-Joy, Barry Jenkins, Casey Affleck , Damien Chazelle , David Hare, David Heyman, David Yates, Denis Villeneuve, Dev Patel , Emily Blunt, Emma Stone, Hayley Squires , Hugh Grant, J.K. Rowling, Ken Loach, Kenneth Lonergan, Laia Costa, Meryl Streep , Michelle Williams, Naomie Harris, Nicole Kidman , Pedro Almodóvar , Ron Howard, Ryan Gosling , Tom Ford, Tom Holland, Viggo Mortensen and Viola Davis . Presenters and other attendees: Andrea Riseborough, Bryce Dallas Howard, Carmen Ejogo, Daisy Ridley , Eddie Redmayne , Ella Purnell, Ewen Bremner, Felicity Jones, George MacKay, Holliday Grainger, Isabelle Huppert, Jamie Dornan , Julia Stiles, Lin-Manuel Miranda , Luke Evans, Sir Mark Rylance , Noel Clarke, Noomi Rapace, Penelope Cruz, Rafe Spall, Riz Ahmed, Russell Tovey, Simon Pegg, Sophie Turner, Stanley Tucci and Thandie Newton .

But unlike his long-time collaborator Hugh Laurie, Fry has never out-and-out courted Hollywood. It is easier, then, for him to poke fun at a world in which he is not fully immersed. “We are so proud of [James Bond],” he said in 2012. “An enduring collaboration of dashing British style and eccentricity, and that very special American quality of – oh, what’s the word – money.”

It is worth noting, though, that Fry recently moved to LA and is the star of American sitcom The Great Indoors. “It will be interesting to see if that changes his insights in any way,” says Gompertz. My guess is that Fry won’t give a fig what the LA set think.

He also has that rare knack of articulating exactly what the majority of viewers are thinking. He can be too pompous, as when he needlessly corrected the grammar of American film director David O Russell: “If you’re going to win for writing, you can at least speak properly.” But one always feels that Fry is fundamentally on our side and he always lets us in on the joke.

In typically British style, he is no fan of over-emotional acceptance speeches. “Winners of awards are, of course, completely free to break down and cry during their acceptance speeches,” he said in 2001. “But do bear in mind that I am also free to vomit.” Sitting rooms across the country no doubt erupted in cheers of agreement.