The Department Of Education Misspells Apology For Misspelling W.E.B. Du Bois' Name
The Department Of Education Can't Spell W.E.B. Du Bois' Name
Maybe the Department of Education should have double-checked the spelling of W.E.B. Du Bois’ name with Frederick Douglass before tweeting about him. In a tweet that went out Sunday morning, the agency attributed a quote from famous civil rights activist Du Bois to “W.E.B. DeBois.” Education must not simply teach work - it must teach life. – W.E.B. DeBois pic.twitter.com/Re4cWkPSFA The internet was quick to point out how horrifying it is that the Department of Education ― now run by Betsy DeVos, an education activist who critics fear could dismantle the public education system ― would misspell the name of a civil rights leader, especially during Black History Month. The NAACP clapped back with an apt Du Bois quote, while others roasted the department for its carelessness. "In the Days of Loose & Careless Logic, We Must Teach Thinkers to THINK." - William Edward Burghardt DU Bois 👏🏽 https://t.co/3m03Vnt5C1 Is it funny sad or sad funny that our Dept. of Education misspelled the name of the great W. E. B. Du Bois? https://t.co/egi6Nn15gp @usedgov Looks like @BetsyDeVos is in charge now! pic.twitter.com/paajsZsUSL . @usedgov  pic.twitter.com/5ZfvGibEx4 @usedgov I am glad my public school teachers taught me how to properly spell the names of noted scholars!! Thanks, Betsy DuVos. https://t.co/U1h4Q7zxqo If you're not sure how to spell something, Dept of Education, you can use Google, a dictionary, or the encyclopedia https://t.co/iFv2qrNpgn The department issued a correction three hours later ― with another typo. That correction tweet was swiftly deleted and replaced , this time with the correct spelling of “apologies,” but we saved a screenshot of the original: The misspelling of Du Bois’ name comes just over a week after President Donald Trump described abolitionist Douglass as “an example of somebody who has done an amazing job and is being recognized more and more, I notice,” leaving everyone wondering if Trump has any idea who Douglass was or that he had died in 1895. And DeVos is no grammar purist, if her social media posts are any indication: Some middle school kids corrected education secretary Betsy DeVos Tweet, hilarious. pic.twitter.com/myTCDijcNJ ALSO ON HUFFPOST #TrumpBookReport Might Be Education Secretary Betsy DeVos' Worst Nightmare       Share this slide:       I have yet to win one friend or influence anyone. This book doesn't work. Sad. #TrumpBookReport  @huffpostcomedy MORE:

Maybe the Department of Education should have double-checked the spelling of W.E.B. Du Bois’ name with Frederick Douglass before tweeting about him.

In a tweet that went out Sunday morning, the agency attributed a quote from famous civil rights activist Du Bois to “W.E.B. DeBois.”

Education must not simply teach work - it must teach life. – W.E.B. DeBois pic.twitter.com/Re4cWkPSFA — US Dept of Education (@usedgov) February 12, 2017

The internet was quick to point out how horrifying it is that the Department of Education ― now run by Betsy DeVos, an education activist who critics fear could dismantle the public education system ― would misspell the name of a civil rights leader, especially during Black History Month.

The NAACP clapped back with an apt Du Bois quote, while others roasted the department for its carelessness.

"In the Days of Loose & Careless Logic, We Must Teach Thinkers to THINK." - William Edward Burghardt DU Bois 👏🏽 https://t.co/3m03Vnt5C1 — NAACP (@NAACP) February 12, 2017

Is it funny sad or sad funny that our Dept. of Education misspelled the name of the great W. E. B. Du Bois? https://t.co/egi6Nn15gp — Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) February 12, 2017

@usedgov I am glad my public school teachers taught me how to properly spell the names of noted scholars!! — Maris Kreizman (@mariskreizman) February 12, 2017

If you're not sure how to spell something, Dept of Education, you can use Google, a dictionary, or the encyclopedia https://t.co/iFv2qrNpgn — Carolyn Kellogg (@paperhaus) February 12, 2017

The department issued a correction three hours later ― with another typo. That correction tweet was swiftly deleted and replaced, this time with the correct spelling of “apologies,” but we saved a screenshot of the original:

twitter

The misspelling of Du Bois’ name comes just over a week after President Donald Trump described abolitionist Douglass as “an example of somebody who has done an amazing job and is being recognized more and more, I notice,” leaving everyone wondering if Trump has any idea who Douglass was or that he had died in 1895.

And DeVos is no grammar purist, if her social media posts are any indication: