Penn State Calls Immigration Posters 'Deeply Offensive'
Penn State Calls Immigration Posters 'Deeply Offensive'
Shares                Penn State says posters that someone has put up on university bulletin boards calling on people to report those in the country illegally are "deeply offensive," saying they "appear to be designed to provoke anger, fear and hate." Officials said the posters began appearing on public bulletin boards on the main campus at State College. The university's student newspaper, The Daily Collegian, said images of the posters had been circulating on social media earlier in the week. An image published by the paper included the message, "It is your civic duty to report any and all illegal aliens . They have broken the law." "The posters are unsigned and appear to be designed to provoke anger, fear and hate. The university finds them deeply offensive," Penn State said in a statement. The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials called the signs "bogus" on Friday, saying the agency wasn't involved and wouldn't solicit information in that manner. Such posters found on bulletin boards designated for use only by university organizations were being removed, the university statement said. Posters on public boards would not be removed "but may be relocated if they are used to block other posted documents," the university said. The posters came amid concern on campus over federal immigration policies of the Trump administration, including a temporary ban on immigration from seven Muslim-majority nations that has been blocked by the federal courts. University president Eric Barron expressed opposition to the action in a Jan. 29 statement and urged international students, faculty and scholars to carry immigration documents proving their legal statuses "whenever you are traveling within the United States." The university said in its statement about the posters that officials wanted to emphasize "that every student on this campus has earned the right to be here based on their academic qualifications and hard work. "Penn State is enriched by students and scholars from around the world and we will continue our work on providing a climate of inclusion for all, regardless of country of origin," the university said. Shares                  Penn State Calls Immigration Posters 'Deeply Offensive'   White House Senior Adviser: 'The Judiciary Is Not Supreme'   Thousands March in Mexico to Demand Respect, Reject Trump   Trump Adviser Doubles Down on Claims of Voter Fraud and of 'Thousands' of Voters Bused Into New Hampshire   Ohio Critics Hope Bats Might Slow Down Pipeline Project   Next up in Ex-NFL Star's 2nd Murder Case: Jury Selection   Voters Reject 2026 Olympic Bid for St. Moritz, Davos   Pentagon Launches Effort to Solve a Baffling WWII Mystery   Aftershocks Rattle Survivors After Philippine Quake Kills 8   Woman Falls to Her Death Inside World Trade Center Oculus   Shoppers Weigh Boycott Calls as Buying Gets More Political   Officials Say Hamburg Airport Scare Was Likely Pepper Spray   Massive North Carolina Crowd Protests Trump, Anti-LGBT Law   A Family Thing: Don't Mess With Political Dads and Daughters   Rockets Hit Baghdad's Green Zone After Protests Turn Violent   Melissa McCarthy Returns to 'SNL' as Sean Spicer   Dominican Paper Apologizes for Using Baldwin Photo for Trump   Piers Morgan, J.K. Rowling in Twitter Fight Over Politics   Conway's Comment on Ivanka Trump's Brand Being Blown 'Way Out of Proportion': White House Adviser   Top Democrat on Oversight Panel: Conway's Pitch for Ivanka Trump's Brand Was a 'Blatant' Violation   "La La Land" Takes 5 Prizes at British Academy Awards   Fourth Muslim Group Rejects Federal Grant to Fight Extremism   How This Polyamorous Couple Plans to Celebrate Valentine's Day   In Emotional Speech, Streep Renews Harsh Criticism of Trump   Singer Katy Perry Has 'Given Up' on the Opinion of Others

Penn State says posters that someone has put up on university bulletin boards calling on people to report those in the country illegally are "deeply offensive," saying they "appear to be designed to provoke anger, fear and hate."

Officials said the posters began appearing on public bulletin boards on the main campus at State College. The university's student newspaper, The Daily Collegian, said images of the posters had been circulating on social media earlier in the week. An image published by the paper included the message, "It is your civic duty to report any and all illegal aliens. They have broken the law."

"The posters are unsigned and appear to be designed to provoke anger, fear and hate. The university finds them deeply offensive," Penn State said in a statement.

The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials called the signs "bogus" on Friday, saying the agency wasn't involved and wouldn't solicit information in that manner.

Such posters found on bulletin boards designated for use only by university organizations were being removed, the university statement said. Posters on public boards would not be removed "but may be relocated if they are used to block other posted documents," the university said.

The posters came amid concern on campus over federal immigration policies of the Trump administration, including a temporary ban on immigration from seven Muslim-majority nations that has been blocked by the federal courts.

University president Eric Barron expressed opposition to the action in a Jan. 29 statement and urged international students, faculty and scholars to carry immigration documents proving their legal statuses "whenever you are traveling within the United States."

The university said in its statement about the posters that officials wanted to emphasize "that every student on this campus has earned the right to be here based on their academic qualifications and hard work.

"Penn State is enriched by students and scholars from around the world and we will continue our work on providing a climate of inclusion for all, regardless of country of origin," the university said.