Faith Hill and Carrie Underwood Twin in Red at 2017 Grammy Awards
Faith Hill and Carrie Underwood Twin in Red at 2017 Grammy Awards
Country singers Faith Hill and Carrie Underwood matched in red at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards . Hill’s stunning Zuhair Murad gown featured a cutout and a daringly high slit, which was similar to Underwood’s embellished lace Elie Madi gown. Underwood, a seven-time Grammy winner who was nominated this year for Best Country Solo Performance for her hit “Church Bells,” styled her dazzling gown with metallic pumps and opted for a chic updo. Hill went with red sandals and simple diamond earrings to match her gown — completing her glam look with a bold red lip and styling her tresses in loose waves. Although Hill seemed to love her dress, she struggled to pronounce the Lebanese fashion designer Murad’s name. Faith Hill rocks @ZMURADofficial , butchers pronouncing his name. #GRAMMYs  pic.twitter.com/VtzdcV59fr — Pret-a-Reporter (@pretareporter) February 13, 2017 Not surprisingly, the moment was heavily discussed on Twitter. Users also couldn’t get over the fact that two major country music stars turned up with such similar looks. Twitter already losing it, are Carrie Underwood and Faith Hill wearing a similar dress at the #GRAMMYs ? Either way, both stunning!! pic.twitter.com/TMZoUWCbBZ — Michelle Rodriguez (@michrod) February 12, 2017 #GRAMMYs Faith Hill & Carrie Underwood wearing similar dress = 2.0 version of Hill saying, "What the hell?" when she lost an award to Carrie — Dawn Y. McDaniel????♿️ (@justdawn_) February 13, 2017 Ummm @FaithHill & @carrieunderwood are literally in the same dress design #CLOCKED yassssssssssss #Grammys — Brian Karpas (@Jew_Majesty) February 12, 2017 Is it an unspoken rule that country stars (ahem Faith Hill and Carrie Underwood) have to wear red dresses w/a giant chest cutout? #GRAMMYs — Diana Tsui (@chupsterette) February 12, 2017

Country singers Carrie Underwood and Faith Hill matched in red at the 2017 Grammy Awards. (Photo: Getty Images)

Country singers Faith Hill and Carrie Underwood matched in red at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards. Hill’s stunning Zuhair Murad gown featured a cutout and a daringly high slit, which was similar to Underwood’s embellished lace Elie Madi gown.

Underwood, a seven-time Grammy winner who was nominated this year for Best Country Solo Performance for her hit “Church Bells,” styled her dazzling gown with metallic pumps and opted for a chic updo.

Carrie Underwood wore an embellished red gown to the 2017 Grammy Awards. (Photo: Getty Images) More

Hill went with red sandals and simple diamond earrings to match her gown — completing her glam look with a bold red lip and styling her tresses in loose waves.

Faith Hill wore a sleek red gown on to the 2017 Grammy Awards. (Photo: Getty Images) More

Although Hill seemed to love her dress, she struggled to pronounce the Lebanese fashion designer Murad’s name.





Not surprisingly, the moment was heavily discussed on Twitter. Users also couldn’t get over the fact that two major country music stars turned up with such similar looks.

Twitter already losing it, are Carrie Underwood and Faith Hill wearing a similar dress at the #GRAMMYs? Either way, both stunning!! pic.twitter.com/TMZoUWCbBZ — Michelle Rodriguez (@michrod) February 12, 2017





#GRAMMYs

Faith Hill & Carrie Underwood wearing similar dress = 2.0 version of Hill saying, "What the hell?" when she lost an award to Carrie — Dawn Y. McDaniel????♿️ (@justdawn_) February 13, 2017









Is it an unspoken rule that country stars (ahem Faith Hill and Carrie Underwood) have to wear red dresses w/a giant chest cutout? #GRAMMYs — Diana Tsui (@chupsterette) February 12, 2017





Read More:

Singer Joy Villa Wears ‘Make America Great Again’ Dress at 2017 Grammy Awards

This Runway Model Just Snatched An Editor’s Phone From His Hand





Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.