Tesla Changes Its Name: Don't Try This At Home
Tesla Changes Its Name: Don't Try This At Home
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jess Collen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Tesla shows that little things in a name can be . But trademarks are hard to establish, and feed off a company’s first accomplishments. Name changes – even small ones – have big implications. Tesla announced that it is changing its name from Tesla Motors to Tesla. When they founded the company around the beginning of the century, the “motors” part of the name no doubt was critical. Perhaps they wanted to be seen as an alternative automobile company, and the founders no doubt liked the majesty of including the term “motors,” like General Motors. Only big companies can make and sell cars, and adding Motors helped reinforce Tesla’s place, and aspirations, in the industry. Now, 13 years later, Tesla feels handcuffed by “motors” since it is finding other markets for the batteries it developed as part of its electric car business. With its solar-powered roof tile home battery systems from its acquisition of Solar City Corp, Tesla is more than cars. It seems like a natural to drop “motors,” and besides, like with most marks, people tend to refer to the company by its first name, if the second part is a more descriptive term, like “motors.” But if your mark is “General Motors,” then you are unlikely to be referred to as “General,” since “General” is, well, so general. I think of the scene in the 2000 movie (high-minded literary analogies are my stock-in-trade, and I don’t mind repeating them), when a meeting takes place with several characters by the names General Admission, General Foods, and General Store. Generally speaking, names like “general something” are about bigness, leaning on public recognition of General Foods (waning), General Motors and General Mills, among others. If you want to sound big for certain products – or are at least targeting people old enough to remember when nothing connoted bigness like the phrase “who do they think they are, General Motors?” – even a term like “general” may have valuable connotations. (Before we write off General Motors' place as a cultural icon, we should note that they still own almost a thousand trademark registrations in the USA alone.) The Tesla logo is seen in Washington, DC, on December 20, 2016. / AFP / SAUL LOEB (Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images) But if your mark is a combination of a fairly uncommon term like Tesla, plus a common word like motors, people will shorten your name. If it is important to you to be always known by both names, you need to work like heck to consistently market yourself that way and be prepared to have to correct people, even customers. Otherwise, the free market of words will chose your moniker for you. Tesla is hardly the first to drive down this road.  Remember when Apple was Apple Computer?   Did dropping "Computer" help it flourish in areas like music players and cell phones?   Who can say?   There could be something appealing about a company selling phones which is a “computer” company.  But from a purely trademark standpoint, Apple's decision seemed easy, since “computer” did not bring much to the dance. Who remembers that Starbucks was once Starbucks Coffee, Tea and Spice? Or that Nintendo was preceded in time by the catchy Marufuku Co. Ltd. when it began life in the late 1800’s, then Nintendo Playing Card Company? They changed to Nintendo a couple generations ago. These changes were ultra-long term evolutions.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Tesla shows that little things in a name can be everything. But trademarks are hard to establish, and feed off a company’s first accomplishments. Name changes – even small ones – have big implications.

Tesla announced that it is changing its name from Tesla Motors to Tesla. When they founded the company around the beginning of the century, the “motors” part of the name no doubt was critical. Perhaps they wanted to be seen as an alternative automobile company, and the founders no doubt liked the majesty of including the term “motors,” like General Motors. Only big companies can make and sell cars, and adding Motors helped reinforce Tesla’s place, and aspirations, in the industry.

Now, 13 years later, Tesla feels handcuffed by “motors” since it is finding other markets for the batteries it developed as part of its electric car business. With its solar-powered roof tile home battery systems from its acquisition of Solar City Corp, Tesla is more than cars. It seems like a natural to drop “motors,” and besides, like with most marks, people tend to refer to the company by its first name, if the second part is a more descriptive term, like “motors.” But if your mark is “General Motors,” then you are unlikely to be referred to as “General,” since “General” is, well, so general. I think of the scene in the 2000 movie The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle (high-minded literary analogies are my stock-in-trade, and I don’t mind repeating them), when a meeting takes place with several characters by the names General Admission, General Foods, and General Store.

Generally speaking, names like “general something” are about bigness, leaning on public recognition of General Foods (waning), General Motors and General Mills, among others. If you want to sound big for certain products – or are at least targeting people old enough to remember when nothing connoted bigness like the phrase “who do they think they are, General Motors?” – even a term like “general” may have valuable connotations. (Before we write off General Motors' place as a cultural icon, we should note that they still own almost a thousand trademark registrations in the USA alone.)

But if your mark is a combination of a fairly uncommon term like Tesla, plus a common word like motors, people will shorten your name. If it is important to you to be always known by both names, you need to work like heck to consistently market yourself that way and be prepared to have to correct people, even customers. Otherwise, the free market of words will chose your moniker for you.

Tesla is hardly the first to drive down this road. Remember when Apple was Apple Computer? Did dropping "Computer" help it flourish in areas like music players and cell phones? Who can say? There could be something appealing about a company selling phones which is a “computer” company. But from a purely trademark standpoint, Apple's decision seemed easy, since “computer” did not bring much to the dance.

Who remembers that Starbucks was once Starbucks Coffee, Tea and Spice? Or that Nintendo was preceded in time by the catchy Marufuku Co. Ltd. when it began life in the late 1800’s, then Nintendo Playing Card Company? They changed to Nintendo a couple generations ago. These changes were ultra-long term evolutions.