Megadeth Wins First Grammy at 2017 Awards
Megadeth Wins First Grammy at 2017 Awards
The Weeknd & Daft Punk Perform 'Starboy'/'I Feel It Coming' Mash-Up at 2017 Grammys 2017 Grammys Photos: Red Carpet, Backstage and More! Grammy Awards 2017: See the Full Winners List (Updating) James Corden Lays Down Some Raps in 2017 Grammys Opening Monologue: Watch Megadeth Wins First Grammy at 2017 Awards  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After more than a quarter of century and a dozen Grammy nominations, Megadeth finally nabbed their first Grammy ahead of the 2017 awards telecast.Â The metal legends won best metal performance for "Dystopia," the title track from their fifteenth studio album, which dropped in 2016. The thrash band's previous 11 nominations date back to 1991. Along with Metallica, Anthrax and Slayer, Megadeth are considered part of the "Big 4" that pioneered thrash metal in the '80s (in other words, it's about time they got a Grammy).Â  Following the pre-telecast win, frontman Dave Mustaine tweeted a photo of the envelope revealing their victory, with the simple caption, "Finally!" Finally! pic.twitter.com/2KqdWhSrAX Metal will play a surprisingly central role in the 2017 Grammy Awards telecast, with Lady Gaga and Metallica delivering a once-in-a-lifetime collaboration during the on-air ceremony.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

David Ellefson, Dirk Verbeuren, Dave Mustaine, and Kiko Loureiro of music group Megadeth attend The 59th Grammy Awards at Staples Center on Feb. 12, 2017 in Los Angeles.

After more than a quarter of century and a dozen Grammy nominations, Megadeth finally nabbed their first Grammy ahead of the 2017 awards telecast.Â

The metal legends won best metal performance for "Dystopia," the title track from their fifteenth studio album, which dropped in 2016. The thrash band's previous 11 nominations date back to 1991. Along with Metallica, Anthrax and Slayer, Megadeth are considered part of the "Big 4" that pioneered thrash metal in the '80s (in other words, it's about time they got a Grammy).Â

Following the pre-telecast win, frontman Dave Mustaine tweeted a photo of the envelope revealing their victory, with the simple caption, "Finally!"

Metal will play a surprisingly central role in the 2017 Grammy Awards telecast, with Lady Gaga and Metallica delivering a once-in-a-lifetime collaboration during the on-air ceremony.Â