Lady Gaga posts photo of new Metallica 'tattoo' ahead of Grammy Awards performance
Lady Gaga posts photo of new Metallica 'tattoo' ahead of Grammy Awards performance
Lady Gaga has posted an Instagram photo that appears to show her sporting a brand new tattoo that honours her Grammys collaboration with Metallica. The pop star posted the image on Sunday, which shows a huge moth with a skull on its body, paying tribute to the Metallica track 'Moth Into Flame' from the band's 2016 record Earlier Gaga teased the performance with a photo of her with the band, referring to them as MetalliGa. The Moth & Metallica 🦋------->🔥🖤#ink #tattoo #MothIntoFlame #MetalliGa #metal #grammys @metallica A photo posted by xoxo, Joanne (@ladygaga) on Gonna listen to Metallica all day and party with my friends and then play with them at the Grammy's. 🤘#MetalliGa 📸: Kevin Winter A photo posted by xoxo, Joanne (@ladygaga) on Her show at the 59th Grammy Awards follows her high-wire, drone-assisted Super Bowl halftime show. Also among those set to perform are A Tribe Called Quest, Anderson .Paak, Bruno Mars, The Weeknd, Daft Punk and Ed Sheeran. Read more Here are all of this year's Grammy Winners Bowie wins his first Grammy while Beyonce picks up Best Music Video David Bowie and Beyonce have already picked up a few awards - Bowie posthumously winning his first musical Grammy for 'Blackstar'. While the late artist had won a lifetime achievement Grammy in 2006 and one for a video in 1985, this is the first Grammy awarded to him for an individual album or song. Tonight's Grammys broadcast begin at 8pm EST. More about: Grammys 2017 Grammy Awards 2017 Lady Gaga Comments

Lady Gaga has posted an Instagram photo that appears to show her sporting a brand new tattoo that honours her Grammys collaboration with Metallica.

The pop star posted the image on Sunday, which shows a huge moth with a skull on its body, paying tribute to the Metallica track 'Moth Into Flame' from the band's 2016 record Hardwired... To Self Destruct.

Earlier Gaga teased the performance with a photo of her with the band, referring to them as MetalliGa.

The Moth & Metallica 🦋------->🔥🖤#ink #tattoo #MothIntoFlame #MetalliGa #metal #grammys @metallica A photo posted by xoxo, Joanne (@ladygaga) on Feb 12, 2017 at 2:51pm PST

Gonna listen to Metallica all day and party with my friends and then play with them at the Grammy's. 🤘#MetalliGa 📸: Kevin Winter A photo posted by xoxo, Joanne (@ladygaga) on Feb 11, 2017 at 10:14pm PST

Her show at the 59th Grammy Awards follows her high-wire, drone-assisted Super Bowl halftime show.

Also among those set to perform are A Tribe Called Quest, Anderson .Paak, Bruno Mars, The Weeknd, Daft Punk and Ed Sheeran.

David Bowie and Beyonce have already picked up a few awards - Bowie posthumously winning his first musical Grammy for 'Blackstar'.

While the late artist had won a lifetime achievement Grammy in 2006 and one for a video in 1985, this is the first Grammy awarded to him for an individual album or song.

Tonight's Grammys broadcast begin at 8pm EST.