TV Producer Ken Ehrlich on His Most Memorable Grammy Moments
TV Producer Ken Ehrlich on His Most Memorable Grammy Moments
When Yahoo Music asked Ken Ehrlich, who has produced the Grammys ceremony for the past 37 years, for his favorite Grammy moments, he quickly replied, “I don’t have one!” It turned out, there were performances that came to mind when we put him on the spot. Here they are, in chronological order and in Ehrlich’s own words. “This was my first year producing the show. They had never sung together before — [the original single] was recorded from two different versions of the song. That was pretty exciting, to be the first one of out of the box.” “Of course this is on the list… I’m down here right now at Staples Center [talking via phone], and you know, pretty much every time since [Houston died during the Grammy weekend 2012], there’s one place I will stand, right by this little staircase that takes us down to this little bunker underneath the stage. That was where someone came up to me and said, ‘Whitney’s dead.’ I thought, ‘Come on. You’re joking.’ To this day, when the stage is built and I walk right by that space, my brain goes right to that moment.” “I was fortunate enough to have worked with Prince eight or nine times over my career… I wouldn’t call him a friend, but he was kind of like a confidant. Every once in a while, out of the blue, I’d get a call from him, or I’d call him and ask if he wanted to do something at the Grammys… This was really pretty amazing. I loved this.” “This was Melissa Etheridge performing right after her cancer, bald — and getting maybe the longest standing ovation in my history with the show.” “I loved this. I thought that was an incredible moment.” “I loved how a couple years ago with McCartney, we did the finale with Joe Walsh and Dave Grohl and Bruce Springsteen — and Paul. It was close to checking off three or four boxes on my bucket list.” This year’s Grammy performers include a pregnant-with-twins Beyoncé , Adele , Bruno Mars , Metallica with Lady Gaga , the Weeknd with Daft Punk , Carrie Underwood, John Legend, Keith Urban , Maren Morris with Alicia Keys, and A Tribe Called Quest with Anderson .Paak . The 59th annual Grammy Awards will air Sunday, Feb. 12 on CBS.

When Yahoo Music asked Ken Ehrlich, who has produced the Grammys ceremony for the past 37 years, for his favorite Grammy moments, he quickly replied, “I don’t have one!” It turned out, there were six performances that came to mind when we put him on the spot. Here they are, in chronological order and in Ehrlich’s own words.

Neil Diamond & Barbra Streisand, “You Don’t Bring Me Flowers” (1980)

“This was my first year producing the show. They had never sung together before — [the original single] was recorded from two different versions of the song. That was pretty exciting, to be the first one of out of the box.”

Whitney Houston, “I Will Always Love You” (1994)

“Of course this is on the list… I’m down here right now at Staples Center [talking via phone], and you know, pretty much every time since [Houston died during the Grammy weekend 2012], there’s one place I will stand, right by this little staircase that takes us down to this little bunker underneath the stage. That was where someone came up to me and said, ‘Whitney’s dead.’ I thought, ‘Come on. You’re joking.’ To this day, when the stage is built and I walk right by that space, my brain goes right to that moment.”

Prince & Beyoncé, Purple Rain medley (2004)

“I was fortunate enough to have worked with Prince eight or nine times over my career… I wouldn’t call him a friend, but he was kind of like a confidant. Every once in a while, out of the blue, I’d get a call from him, or I’d call him and ask if he wanted to do something at the Grammys… This was really pretty amazing. I loved this.”

Melissa Etheridge & Joss Stone, “Cry Baby”/“Piece of My Heart” (2005)

“This was Melissa Etheridge performing right after her cancer, bald — and getting maybe the longest standing ovation in my history with the show.”

Elton John & Eminem, “Stan” (2006)

“I loved this. I thought that was an incredible moment.”

Paul McCartney & All-Stars, “Golden Slumbers”/”Carry That Weight” (2012)

“I loved how a couple years ago with McCartney, we did the finale from Abbey Road with Joe Walsh and Dave Grohl and Bruce Springsteen — and Paul. It was close to checking off three or four boxes on my bucket list.”

This year’s Grammy performers include a pregnant-with-twins Beyoncé, Adele, Bruno Mars, Metallica with Lady Gaga, the Weeknd with Daft Punk, Carrie Underwood, John Legend, Keith Urban, Maren Morris with Alicia Keys, and A Tribe Called Quest with Anderson .Paak. The 59th annual Grammy Awards will air Sunday, Feb. 12 on CBS.