Grammys get political early-on with James Corden as host
Grammys get political early-on with James Corden as host
Grammys Grammys get political early-on with James Corden as host Host James Corden raps at the 59th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday, Feb. 12, 2017, in Los Angeles.
	                        
	                        	 (AP) It wouldn’t be an awards show in 2017 without at least a bit of politics taking center stage and a whole lot of drama. James Corden, Katy Perry, Jennifer Lopez and more all touched on the political climate when they took the stage at the 59 annual Grammy Awards, and Adele literally stopped the show to restart her tribute to George Michael after a glitch. Adele first opened the show with a straight-forward performance of her hit “Hello” before James Corden took the stage and things took a turn for the political. "The Late Late Show” host rapped about the show and the stars in the audience, and at the end of his rap Corden turned political, sharing a message of unity and quipping about President Donald Trump. More on this...  Singer Joy Villa wears Trump dress to the Grammys   Rory Feek, late wife Joey win Grammy for best gospel roots album   2017 Grammy Awards: Most eye-catching red carpet looks  “…With President Trump we don't know what comes next,” he said mid-rap. “We can survive by sticking together.” After Corden finished his introduction, Jennifer Lopez presented the first award of the evening and also talked politics. “At this particular point in history, our voices are needed more than ever,” she said hinting at the Trump presidency. JLo presented the award for best new artist to Chance The Rapper. But it was Katy Perry who went the farthest, taking the stage to perform “Chained to the Rhythm” with “We the people” written behind her and an armband that read “persist.” Following Perry’s performance, Adele took the stage to perform a tribute to George Michael, who died on Dec. 25, 2016, but she struggled early on and insisted she start over. The famous singer cursed and then said with teary-eyes, “I can’t mess this up... Can we please start again?” Throughout the night, a slew of other A-list stars performed such as Keith Urban and Carrie Underwood, Ed Sheeran and Beyonce. Introduced by her mother, Beyonce took the stage in a glittered gown and headdress for a performance that began with a long, spoken video-enhanced presentation about mothers and children.  The highly-anticipated performance by the pregnant pop star got a standing ovation from the crowd. Corden had his own attention-grabbing moment when he showed up in the star-studded audience with a mobile Carpool Karaoke cutout car and prompted stars like Lopez, John Legend, Urban and Faith Hill to team up with him and Neil Diamond to sing “Sweet Caroline.” Twenty One Pilots were early winners during the night. They accepted the trophy for best pop duo for "Stressed out” in their underwear, a move Corden mimicked when the show returned from a commercial break. David Bowie won a posthumous Grammy for best rock song during the telecast for “Blackstar,” and Maren Morris won the award for best country solo performance for “My Church.” 2017 Grammy Awards: Most eye-catching red carpet looks The Grammys are known for some seriously wacky, sexy and attention-grabbing red carpet looks. Here are the looks that caught our eye this year.  Singer Joy Villa wears Trump dress to the Grammys   Grammys get political early-on with James Corden as host   John Travola can't read teleprompter at Grammys   Keith Urban ignored Nicole Kidman because he thought she was out of his league

It wouldn’t be an awards show in 2017 without at least a bit of politics taking center stage and a whole lot of drama.

James Corden, Katy Perry, Jennifer Lopez and more all touched on the political climate when they took the stage at the 59th annual Grammy Awards, and Adele literally stopped the show to restart her tribute to George Michael after a glitch.

Adele first opened the show with a straight-forward performance of her hit “Hello” before James Corden took the stage and things took a turn for the political.

"The Late Late Show” host rapped about the show and the stars in the audience, and at the end of his rap Corden turned political, sharing a message of unity and quipping about President Donald Trump.

“…With President Trump we don't know what comes next,” he said mid-rap. “We can survive by sticking together.”

After Corden finished his introduction, Jennifer Lopez presented the first award of the evening and also talked politics.

“At this particular point in history, our voices are needed more than ever,” she said hinting at the Trump presidency.

JLo presented the award for best new artist to Chance The Rapper.

But it was Katy Perry who went the farthest, taking the stage to perform “Chained to the Rhythm” with “We the people” written behind her and an armband that read “persist.”

Following Perry’s performance, Adele took the stage to perform a tribute to George Michael, who died on Dec. 25, 2016, but she struggled early on and insisted she start over.

The famous singer cursed and then said with teary-eyes, “I can’t mess this up... Can we please start again?”

Throughout the night, a slew of other A-list stars performed such as Keith Urban and Carrie Underwood, Ed Sheeran and Beyonce.

Introduced by her mother, Beyonce took the stage in a glittered gown and headdress for a performance that began with a long, spoken video-enhanced presentation about mothers and children. The highly-anticipated performance by the pregnant pop star got a standing ovation from the crowd.

Corden had his own attention-grabbing moment when he showed up in the star-studded audience with a mobile Carpool Karaoke cutout car and prompted stars like Lopez, John Legend, Urban and Faith Hill to team up with him and Neil Diamond to sing “Sweet Caroline.”

Twenty One Pilots were early winners during the night. They accepted the trophy for best pop duo for "Stressed out” in their underwear, a move Corden mimicked when the show returned from a commercial break.

David Bowie won a posthumous Grammy for best rock song during the telecast for “Blackstar,” and Maren Morris won the award for best country solo performance for “My Church.”