Singer Joy Villa Wears ‘Make America Great Again’ Dress at 2017 Grammy Awards
Singer Joy Villa Wears ‘Make America Great Again’ Dress at 2017 Grammy Awards
Awards shows this season have proved to be rife with political statements. And the 59th Annual Grammy Awards are no exception. Artist Joy Villa made the first of the night on Sunday with an epic outfit reveal on the red carpet, with major patriotic vibes. Stepping out in a white cloak, the singer — a self-described feminist — posed for cameras holding a heart-shaped purse. Moments later, Villa whipped off the garment to reveal a flashy red, white, and blue gown emblazoned with the phrase “Make America Great Again” down the front. The figure-hugging, bejeweled gown also featured star detailing and “Trump” in huge letters on the skirt of the dress. She posted a sneak peak of her clutch earlier in the day, writing a sweet message encouraging self-love and acceptance. “ While Villa doesn’t often post on her social channels about politics, she did post a message encouraging unity amongAmericans shortly after the election. Within minutes of debuting the look, the artist already started to receive backlash on social media for the gown. “Great to know you support a racist! #CareerDelete ” user Mika Quick commented. “Seriously with that dress? You should be ashamed of yourself,” user jlm2050 added. “The worst way to get attention! It will back fire on you. Your one chance to make a name for yourself and you choice to wear the ugliest dress ever!” user silverstarr99 wrote on a photo on Villa’s page. However, not everyone disliked the look. “Your dress! I LOVE IT! It’s such a powerful message & we must not hate anyone. Let’s make LOVE stronger!” user a.kat9498 commented.

Awards shows this season have proved to be rife with political statements. And the 59th Annual Grammy Awards are no exception.

Artist Joy Villa made the first of the night on Sunday with an epic outfit reveal on the red carpet, with major patriotic vibes.

Stepping out in a white cloak, the singer — a self-described feminist — posed for cameras holding a heart-shaped purse. Moments later, Villa whipped off the garment to reveal a flashy red, white, and blue gown emblazoned with the phrase “Make America Great Again” down the front.

Photo: Getty Images More

The figure-hugging, bejeweled gown also featured star detailing and “Trump” in huge letters on the skirt of the dress.

Joy Villa’s gown at the Grammy Awards made a major political statement. (Photo: Getty Images) More

She posted a sneak peak of her clutch earlier in the day, writing a sweet message encouraging self-love and acceptance.





“My whole artistic platform is about LOVE! I couldn’t be where I am today without the love and tenderness of those beautiful supporters and friends around me,” she wrote. “Thank you. I hope you enjoy tonight’s @grammysawards2017 and remember to forget your problems and focus on your future! You are infinite and beautiful and no one can stop you but you. So go out and celebrate yourself as a winner no matter what, together with those you adore!”

While Villa doesn’t often post on her social channels about politics, she did post a message encouraging unity amongAmericans shortly after the election.





Within minutes of debuting the look, the artist already started to receive backlash on social media for the gown. “Great to know you support a racist! #CareerDelete” user Mika Quick commented. “Seriously with that dress? You should be ashamed of yourself,” user jlm2050 added. “The worst way to get attention! It will back fire on you. Your one chance to make a name for yourself and you choice to wear the ugliest dress ever!” user silverstarr99 wrote on a photo on Villa’s page.

However, not everyone disliked the look. “Your dress! I LOVE IT! It’s such a powerful message & we must not hate anyone. Let’s make LOVE stronger!” user a.kat9498 commented.

Read More:

Nike’s New ‘Equality’ Campaign Features Alicia Keys, LeBron James, and Serena Williams

Public School Partners With Dr. Martens on Politically-Charged Show





Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.