How to Watch the 2017 Grammy Awards
How to Watch the 2017 Grammy Awards
The 59th Annual Grammy Awards are coming up quickly — and it’s a night that no music lover will want to miss! Here’s everything you need to know about the show in order to watch and enjoy. The show will will air live at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT on Sunday, Feb. 12. The Grammys will air on CBS. For viewers who want to stream, the show will air exclusively on CBS All Access. You’ll be able to stream on desktop, the CBS App, apple TV, Roku, Amazon Fire TV, Playstation 4, Windows 10, and Chromecast. Fans will be treated to a staggering number of A-list performances and appearances, including (the very pregnant) Beyoncé, Adele, Lady Gaga with Metallica, the Weeknd with Daft Punk, Alicia Keys with Maren Morris, John Legend, Barry Gibb, A Tribe Called Quest, Keith Urban, Carrie Underwood, and more. The show will additionally feature tributes to the late Prince, led by Bruno Mars, and George Michael (with special mystery guests). James Corden will serve as host. If you want to catch all the fashion, tune in to CBS or CBS All Access at 7:30 p.m. ET/4:30 PM for the official “Grammy Red Carpet Live” show with ET’s Nancy O’Dell and Kevin Frazier.

The 59th Annual Grammy Awards are coming up quickly — and it’s a night that no music lover will want to miss! Here’s everything you need to know about the show in order to watch and enjoy.

WHEN: The show will will air live at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT on Sunday, Feb. 12.

WHERE: The Grammys will air on CBS. For viewers who want to stream, the show will air exclusively on CBS All Access. You’ll be able to stream on desktop, the CBS App, apple TV, Roku, Amazon Fire TV, Playstation 4, Windows 10, and Chromecast.

WHO: Fans will be treated to a staggering number of A-list performances and appearances, including (the very pregnant) Beyoncé, Adele, Lady Gaga with Metallica, the Weeknd with Daft Punk, Alicia Keys with Maren Morris, John Legend, Barry Gibb, A Tribe Called Quest, Keith Urban, Carrie Underwood, and more. The show will additionally feature tributes to the late Prince, led by Bruno Mars, and George Michael (with special mystery guests). James Corden will serve as host.

AND: If you want to catch all the fashion, tune in to CBS or CBS All Access at 7:30 p.m. ET/4:30 PM for the official “Grammy Red Carpet Live” show with ET’s Nancy O’Dell and Kevin Frazier.