To Address STEM Shortage, U.S. Employers Need Talented Immigrants
To Address STEM Shortage, U.S. Employers Need Talented Immigrants
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Capital Flows       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Immigration has long been a hot topic of discussion in the public arena, and for good reason. Immigration policies touch upon the economy, culture and homeland security, making the issue a complicated and often emotional one for which there is no simple answer. The 2016 presidential campaign kept immigration at the forefront of discussion, with President-to-be Donald Trump making the issue a centerpiece of his campaign. As a result, the American public is ready for a real debate, and real reform. My hope is that we can have substantive reforms based on more than emotional assertions about illegal immigration. A student uses an Apple Inc. iPad Mini to control a Makeblock Co. mBot robot during a robotics class at Creative Coding Hong Kong Ltd. on Dec. 16, 2016. (Anthony Kwan/Bloomberg) In today’s Twitter-feed culture, the immigration debate often misses the fact that most immigrants in the U.S. are here legally. Whether by petition from close family members, via political asylum or by sponsorship through a U.S. employer, new legal immigrants arrive in America every day and are the vast majority of the foreign-born within our borders. Our work visa programs are as outmoded as the rest of our immigration system and desperately need new thinking. There is a false notion that any job that goes to a foreign national is taken away from a U.S. citizen. This is dangerously wrong. As an immigration attorney, I can tell you that the hospitals, universities and technology businesses that I work with across the nation hire foreign workers because they are in desperate need of the skills and training these professionals have. Without these talented immigrants, a patient might not have access to crucial surgery short of traveling a long distance, a critical software project wouldn’t be completed, or a prototype airplane would simply never be designed and manufactured. There is a huge shortage of available talent in the science, technology and engineering fields (commonly referred to as STEM) not just in the United States, but around the world. The technology age that started with President Kennedy’s moonshot in the 1960s and then exploded with the emergence of the Internet in the 1990s is still reshaping and driving the global economy. Technology sectors in India, Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, China and elsewhere are burgeoning. A college graduate in one of the STEM fields writes his or her own ticket to success. However, our universities cannot graduate enough U.S. citizens to meet the demand. The United States is competing globally for talented individuals in the STEM fields, yet our immigration system severely limits the ability of U.S. employers to hire skilled foreign workers. The primary work visa program for these highly skilled workers, the H-1B visa program, is limited to issuing 85,000 new visas a year. Despite the costly and onerous obligations for employers who use this program, over each of the past several years U.S. companies made 200,000-300,000 H-1B visa requests. Only about a third of these requests were granted. America needs talented, highly skilled U.S. workers foreign workers to provide technical expertise, innovation and creative energy to U.S. companies rather than to our competitors abroad. Instead of thinking of these skilled foreign workers as an anchor on U.S. jobs, they should be thought of as the high-octane fuel that we could use to rapidly grow our economy. On the contrary, we have created a complex system that denies U.S. companies the workers they need to succeed and discourages talented STEM professionals from even trying to come to the United States. The way I put this in perspective is to ask: Which software programs won’t be finished? Which planes won’t be built? Which patients will receive subpar medical care? And how many jobs were not created when companies were held back because of this huge black hole in our STEM sector persists? Google, eBay, Yahoo and countless other technology companies were started by immigrants. Bill Gates himself asked Congress to lift the cap on H-1B visas during congressional testimony. Ask the CEO of any STEM company, and you will get the same answer: The cap needs to be lifted. The expansion of H-1b visas was considered the first major victory for Mark Zuckerberg’s nonprofit lobbying organization, FWD.us, which receives financial backing from big tech names. (AP Photo/Jeff Chiu, File) There are robust protections for U.S. workers in the current H-1B visa regulations. The wages paid to foreign workers may not be lower than those actually paid to U.S. workers in the same position, and a U.S. worker may not be displaced by an H-1B visa holder. Although there has been media coverage of instances where U.S. workers were forced to train their foreign replacements, the current rules clearly prohibit that type of activity and impose stiff fines for violators. However, increased policing of bad actors is welcome and should result in the limited number of H-1B visas going to those companies that truly need them. It is worth noting that the typical government filing fee for private-sector employers to use the H-1B program is $2,460 per foreign employee. These hefty fees are earmarked to fund scholarships for U.S. STEM students, to provide technical training to U.S. workers, and to administer the H-1B visa program. 12 Best STEM Schools For International Students With the American public now focused on the issue of immigration, the new administration is presented with a unique opportunity to reform our system and to increase America’s competitive advantage on the world stage by leveraging the talents of highly skilled foreign workers. Substantive immigration reform that brings more STEM professionals to the United States would benefit us all.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Immigration has long been a hot topic of discussion in the public arena, and for good reason. Immigration policies touch upon the economy, culture and homeland security, making the issue a complicated and often emotional one for which there is no simple answer. The 2016 presidential campaign kept immigration at the forefront of discussion, with President-to-be Donald Trump making the issue a centerpiece of his campaign. As a result, the American public is ready for a real debate, and real reform. My hope is that we can have substantive reforms based on more than emotional assertions about illegal immigration.

In today’s Twitter-feed culture, the immigration debate often misses the fact that most immigrants in the U.S. are here legally. Whether by petition from close family members, via political asylum or by sponsorship through a U.S. employer, new legal immigrants arrive in America every day and are the vast majority of the foreign-born within our borders. Our work visa programs are as outmoded as the rest of our immigration system and desperately need new thinking. There is a false notion that any job that goes to a foreign national is taken away from a U.S. citizen. This is dangerously wrong.

Watch On Forbes: The Biotech Pioneer That Can Rebuild Your Heart Cells

As an immigration attorney, I can tell you that the hospitals, universities and technology businesses that I work with across the nation hire foreign workers because they are in desperate need of the skills and training these professionals have. Without these talented immigrants, a patient might not have access to crucial surgery short of traveling a long distance, a critical software project wouldn’t be completed, or a prototype airplane would simply never be designed and manufactured.

There is a huge shortage of available talent in the science, technology and engineering fields (commonly referred to as STEM) not just in the United States, but around the world. The technology age that started with President Kennedy’s moonshot in the 1960s and then exploded with the emergence of the Internet in the 1990s is still reshaping and driving the global economy. Technology sectors in India, Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, China and elsewhere are burgeoning.

A college graduate in one of the STEM fields writes his or her own ticket to success. However, our universities cannot graduate enough U.S. citizens to meet the demand. The United States is competing globally for talented individuals in the STEM fields, yet our immigration system severely limits the ability of U.S. employers to hire skilled foreign workers. The primary work visa program for these highly skilled workers, the H-1B visa program, is limited to issuing 85,000 new visas a year. Despite the costly and onerous obligations for employers who use this program, over each of the past several years U.S. companies made 200,000-300,000 H-1B visa requests. Only about a third of these requests were granted.

America needs talented, highly skilled U.S. workers and foreign workers to provide technical expertise, innovation and creative energy to U.S. companies rather than to our competitors abroad. Instead of thinking of these skilled foreign workers as an anchor on U.S. jobs, they should be thought of as the high-octane fuel that we could use to rapidly grow our economy. On the contrary, we have created a complex system that denies U.S. companies the workers they need to succeed and discourages talented STEM professionals from even trying to come to the United States.

The way I put this in perspective is to ask: Which software programs won’t be finished? Which planes won’t be built? Which patients will receive subpar medical care? And how many jobs were not created when companies were held back because of this huge black hole in our STEM sector persists? Google, eBay, Yahoo and countless other technology companies were started by immigrants. Bill Gates himself asked Congress to lift the cap on H-1B visas during congressional testimony. Ask the CEO of any STEM company, and you will get the same answer: The cap needs to be lifted.

There are robust protections for U.S. workers in the current H-1B visa regulations. The wages paid to foreign workers may not be lower than those actually paid to U.S. workers in the same position, and a U.S. worker may not be displaced by an H-1B visa holder. Although there has been media coverage of instances where U.S. workers were forced to train their foreign replacements, the current rules clearly prohibit that type of activity and impose stiff fines for violators. However, increased policing of bad actors is welcome and should result in the limited number of H-1B visas going to those companies that truly need them. It is worth noting that the typical government filing fee for private-sector employers to use the H-1B program is $2,460 per foreign employee. These hefty fees are earmarked to fund scholarships for U.S. STEM students, to provide technical training to U.S. workers, and to administer the H-1B visa program.

With the American public now focused on the issue of immigration, the new administration is presented with a unique opportunity to reform our system and to increase America’s competitive advantage on the world stage by leveraging the talents of highly skilled foreign workers. Substantive immigration reform that brings more STEM professionals to the United States would benefit us all.