Watch All the Performances at the 2017 Grammys
Watch All the Performances at the 2017 Grammys
The 59th Grammy Awards are finally here. Hosted by James Corden, the awards show is expected to feature blockbuster performances by music’s biggest names. Fresh off her halftime show at Superbowl LI , Lady Gaga and Metallica will bring that same energy tonight. They will also be a tribute to Prince, George Michael, and other musicians we lost last year including Malik Taylor a.k.a. Phife Dawg. Adele, Chance the Rapper, Katy Perry, Anderson .Paak assisting A Tribe Called Quest are among the performers this evening. But there might actually be some surprise performances in store: Ed Sheeran did just announce he would be playing later. Playing the tonight on , tune in ! A photo posted by Ed ( ) on Feb 12, 2017 at 10: PST You can check out the full list below. This post will be updated with videos of the performances throughout the night. Adele #LIVE  sans plus la d' @Adele  "Hello" ! Un mot : sublime (  ) # 😻  pic.twitter.com/ Kelsea Ballerini William Bell and Gary Clark Jr. Chance The Rapper and Kirk Franklin Cynthia Erivo and John Legend Lady Gaga and Metallica Little Big Town Demi Lovato with Andra Day and Tori Kelly Lukas Graham Bruno Mars Maren Morris and Alicia Keys Anderson .Paak and A Tribe Called Quest Katy Perry Sturgill Simpson Carrie Underwood and Keith Urban The Weeknd with Daft Punk Ed Sheeran Beyoncé

The 59th Grammy Awards are finally here.

Hosted by James Corden, the awards show is expected to feature blockbuster performances by music’s biggest names. Fresh off her halftime show at Superbowl LI, Lady Gaga and Metallica will bring that same energy tonight. They will also be a tribute to Prince, George Michael, and other musicians we lost last year including Malik Taylor a.k.a. Phife Dawg.

Adele, Chance the Rapper, Katy Perry, Anderson .Paak assisting A Tribe Called Quest are among the performers this evening. But there might actually be some surprise performances in store: Ed Sheeran did just announce he would be playing later.

Playing the Grammys tonight on cbs, tune in ! A photo posted by Ed Sheeran (@teddysphotos) on Feb 12, 2017 at 10:09am PST

You can check out the full list below. This post will be updated with videos of the performances throughout the night.

Adele



Kelsea

Ballerini William Bell and Gary Clark Jr.

Chance The Rapper and Kirk Franklin

Cynthia Erivo and John Legend

Lady Gaga and Metallica

Little Big Town

Demi Lovato with Andra Day and Tori Kelly

Lukas Graham

Bruno Mars

Maren Morris and Alicia Keys

Anderson .Paak and A Tribe Called Quest

Katy Perry

Sturgill Simpson

Carrie Underwood and Keith Urban

The Weeknd with Daft Punk

Ed Sheeran

Beyoncé