Grammys: Adele pays tribute to Beyonce, Flume the only Aussie winner



Grammys: Adele pays tribute to Beyonce, Flume the only Aussie winner

Updated

Adele may have dominated the Grammys, but even she bowed down to Beyonce.

The British songstress took home all five awards she was nominated for, besting Beyonce for the three biggest gongs of the night — song, album and record of the year.

After taking out the Best Album award for 25, Adele used her speech to pay tribute to her fellow nominee as a teary-eyed Beyonce looked on

"I can't really accept this award," she said.

"This album you made — the Lemonade album — is so monumental.

"The way you make me and my friends feel, the way you make my black friends feel is empowering.

"And they stand up for themselves. And I love you. I always have."

The powerhouse vocalist then snapped her trophy in half, but it was unclear if it was intentional or a mistake.

She was pictured backstage holding five intact trophies.

Adele had earlier used her Record of the Year speech to praise the Formation singer as "my queen and my idol … Queen Bey".

Beyonce went into the awards with a leading nine nominations for Lemonade, an anthem to race, feminism, betrayal and empowerment.

With one early win for her Formation music video, the singer, who is pregnant with twins, performed in an elaborate ode to motherhood.

She took to the stage again to accept the award for Best Urban Contemporary Album for Lemonade.

Adele is the first person to have won all three major awards twice, having taken out the same categories for her album 21.

Flume nabs Grammy for Skin album

Australian producer Flume took home his first Grammy for best dance/electronic album, beating artists including Jean-Michel Jarre and Tycho, Underworld and Louie Vega, with his second album Skin.

"I'm really proud to be here representing Australian music on this stage right now," Flume told the crowd at the winners podium.

"I want to thank all the collaborators on the record, who helped add so much colour and flavour to it."

He spoke to triple j just after the win.

"It's actually kind of hectic over here ... so many people" he said.

"We got a couple after-parties lined up ... I know Diplo's having something, I know Chance [The Rapper] is having something, there's a couple options."

But he will not have his trophy with him at the celebrations.

"They don't let you keep it. I was trying to hold onto it but they kept grabbing it off you," he said.

"Then [they] post it back to you in the mail, which is probably a good thing. I'd probably lose it otherwise."

The record producer was expected to take out Best Dance Recording with his song Never Be Like You featuring Kai, however Chainsmokers won for their song Don't Let Me Down.



Sia lost out for Best Pop Vocal Album to Adele.

She also missed out on Best Pop Duo for her collaboration with Sean Paul on Cheap Thrills and Best Song Written for Visual Media for Try Everything from animated film Zootopia.

Keith Urban was nominated for Best Country Album but Sturgill Simpson took out the award with A Sailor's Guide To Earth.

He also missed out on a nod for Best Country Solo Performance.

Busta Rhymes calls Trump 'President Agent Orange'

Unlike last month's Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Awards, US President Donald Trump was not a fixture of acceptance speeches or performances, until A Tribe Called Quest took the stage.

Busta Rhymes repeatedly called Mr Trump "President Agent Orange" as the group sharply criticised his recent executive order attempting to freeze immigration from several Muslim majority countries, calling it a "Muslim ban".

The rappers repeatedly chanted, "We the people" and ended their performance shouting "Resist! Resist! Resist!", which has become a rallying cry for those protesting against Mr Trump's policies.

Katy Perry's wore an armband that said "Persist" — a reference to the silencing of Democratic senator Elizabeth Warren during a confirmation hearing for Attorney-General Jeff Sessions — during her performance with Skip Marley, the grandson of reggae legend Bob Marley.

During her performance, a giant video projection of the US constitution loomed over the stage.

The document that defines America and famously begins with "We the People" provoked a standing ovation from the audience at the culmination of Perry's performance of her newly released song Chained to the Rhythm.

With a refrain of "We think we're free," the song's lyrics talk about being lulled into a "comfortable bubble".



Bowie, George Michael and Prince remembered

The 2017 Grammys were also a tale of absent friends.

David Bowie was awarded four posthumous nods, marking the first music Grammys for the British singer who had never won in his lifetime for an individual album or song.

Accepting the rock performance Grammy on Bowie's behalf, band-mate Donny McCaslin called Bowie "an artistic genius and a funny-as-hell guy".

Adele delivered a stirring Grammy tribute to George Michael, but not before stopping and restarting, saying she had to make sure she got it right.

"I can't mess this up for him," she said.

The crowd cheered as she started to sing again, accompanied by an orchestra as images of the late British singer-songwriter were projected on large screens.

Prince was remembered in a dance-filled performance by Bruno Mars, who donned a sequinned purple jacket and white scarf to perform the singer's hit Let's Go Crazy

Former Prince collaborators Morris Day and the Time preceded Mars with an equally energetic performance of two songs co-written by their one-time associate — Jungle Love and The Bird.



ABC/Reuters/AP

Topics: dance-music, music, arts-and-entertainment, music-awards, music-industry, united-states, australia

First posted