Does King Tut's tomb hold Queen Nefertiti's remains?
Does King Tut's tomb hold Queen Nefertiti's remains?


olytechnic University Turin, Italy, plans to resume the search later this month

No announcement made, but sources say it did not find hidden rooms

Archaeologists plan to resume the search for lost burial chambers in King Tutankhamun's tomb.

The news follows more than a year of speculation after British Egyptologist, Nicholas Reeves, said he found signs of a hidden doorway in King Tut's tomb.

At the time, he said one of the secret rooms could be the burial place of Queen Nefertiti.

A team now plans to use radar systems to scan the 3,300-year-old tomb, which was first opened in 1923 by British researcher Howard Carter.

Scroll down for video

Archaeologists plan to resume the search for lost burial chambers in King Tutankhamun's tomb (pictured). The news follows more than a year of speculation after British Egyptologist, Nicholas Reeves, said he found signs of a hidden doorway in King Tut's tomb

The search will be led by the Polytechnic University Turin, Italy and will be the third team in the past two years researchers have looked for the lost chamber.

'It will be a rigorous scientific work and will last several days, if not weeks,' Franco Porcelli, the project's director and a professor of physics at the department of applied science and technology of the Polytechnic University in Turin, told Seeker.

'Three radar systems will be used and frequencies from 200 Mhz to 2 GHz will be covered.'

Mamdouh Eldamaty, Egypt's former antiquities minister, said there is a '90 per cent' chance the tomb has hidden chambers.

He claims that and finding them would be the 'discovery of the century'.

Some experts believe Tutankhamun's tomb was in fact Nefertiti's, and when the boy king died unexpectedly at a young age, he was rushed into her tomb's outer chamber in Luxor's Valley of Kings

Previously, researchers had said they believe there is a 90 per cent chance King Tutankhamun's tomb contains at least one, if not two, hidden chambers. The announcement followed infrared thermography tests (shown) that revealed one area of the northern wall was a different temperature to others (marked)

GHOST DOORS TO THE CHAMBER After analysing high-resolution scans of the walls of Tutankhamun's grave complex in the Valley of the Kings in 2015, Dr Nicholas Reeves spotted what appeared to be a secret entrance. They feature very straight lines that are 90 degrees to the ground, positioned so as to correspond with other features within the tomb. Dr Nicholas Reeves recently claimed to have found evidence for the bricked up entrances. These include the burial chamber for Queen Nefertiti, who Dr Reeves claims was the boy-kings co-regent and may even have been his mother, and a new hidden storage room, as shown above He uncovered the 'ghosts' of two portals that tomb builders blocked up, one of which is believed to be a storage room. The other, on the north side of Tutankhamun's tomb, contains 'the undisturbed burial of the tomb's original owner - Nefertiti', Dr Reeves argued. These features are difficult to capture with the naked eye, he said. Reeves said the plastered walls could conceal two unexplored doorways, one of which perhaps leads to Nefertiti's tomb. He also argues the design of the tomb suggests it was built for a queen, rather than a king. The dark blue border shows the walls that were scanned. The area alongside the antechamber is believed to be empty, while Area 1 contains metal and organic material, and Area 2 contains just organic material. This organic material could be human remains In particular, he believes these chambers are behind the northerns and western walls of tomb and that one contains the remains of queen Nefertiti, the chief wife of Pharaoh Akhenaten and mother to six of his children, who is Tutankhamun's mother.

The researchers plan to carry out the first survey of the tomb by the end of this month.

The search began in 2015 following a claim by Nicholas Reeves, an Egyptologist at the University of Arizona.

Based on Reeves' works, Japanese radar expert Hirokatsu Watanabe said he had evidence of two hidden chambers in the King's tomb.

'There is, in fact, an empty space behind the wall based on radar, which is very accurate, there is no doubt,' he said at the time.

This prompted Egyptian antiquities minister Mamdough al-Damaty to issue a statement claiming he was almost certain there was a chamber behind the walls.

'We said earlier there was a 60 percent chance there is something behind the walls,' he in November.

Crouched by King Tut's stone sarcophagus, National Geographic technicians Eric Berkenpas and Alan Turchik prepare the radar unit to scan the tomb's walls. Experts have disagreed over how the search for the chambers was handled with the former antiquities minister Zahi Hawass claiming the project lacked any real science

'But now after the initial reading of the scans, we are saying now its 90 percent likely there is something behind the walls.'

However, experts raised doubts about the claim after radar images from Watanabe's scans were released.

The National Geographic Society conducted a second series of radar scans in the hope of finding clearer evidence of a tomb.

They scanned the walls in question at five different heights, switching between two radar antennae with frequencies of 400 and 900 megahertz, respectively.

'One was for depth perception, and one was for feature perception,' said Eric Berkenpas, an electrical engineer at National Geographic who was accompanied by Alan Turchik, a mechanical engineer.

But results have come up blank.

Live Science says Egypt's antiquities ministry refused to accept the new results.

'Other types of radar and remote-sensing techniques will be applied in the next stage. Once they are determined, we shall publish the updates,' the ministry told Live Science in a statement.

At a conference discussing the claims last year, archaeologists sitting on each side of the fence clashed over the controversial theory and plans to drill a hole in the wall.

Experts even disagreed about how the search for the chambers was handled with the former antiquities minister Zahi Hawass claiming the project lacked any real science.

The researchers who conducted the radar survey were not allowed to present their research at the conference, according to Live Science.

Two leading experts recently suggested King Tut's tomb may have been built for a woman, based upon the layout of the chamber. The gold death mask (pictured) could also hold clues. The face was originally separate from the headdress and they were welded together, while pharaohs' masks were usually made in one piece

Speaking at the conference, the famed Egyptologist Hawass rejected the theory undiscovered chambers lie behind the tomb.

'In all my career ... I have never come across any discovery in Egypt due to radar scans,' Hawass said.

At the time, he said the technology would be better used to examine existing tombs that are known to contain sealed-off chambers.

British Egyptologist Nicolas Reeves meanwhile defended the theory he put forward last year.

Preliminary results of successive scans suggested the tomb contains two open spaces, with signs of metal and organic matter lying behind its western and northern walls.

'I was looking for the evidence that would tell me that my initial reading was wrong,' he said.

'But I didn't find any evidence to suggest that. I just found more and more indicators that there is something extra going on in Tutankhamun's tomb.'

British Egyptologist, Dr Nicholas Reeves has previously said King Tut's tomb seems too small for a pharaoh and may have been repurposed for when he died suddenly. It lies in the Valley of the Kings (shown on map)

Damati inspected the tomb last September with the theory's proponent, Reeves.

His theory and the attention paid to it came as Egypt struggles to revive its key tourism industry after years of political turmoil.

However, experts disagreed over how the search for the chambers was handled.

'Handling the project wasn't done scientifically at all,' said former antiquities minister Zahi Hawass.

Damati himself said more tests were needed.

Last year, former minister Mamduh Damati (pictured) said the secret chambers probably existed, raising expectations of another historical find. Damati inspected the tomb last September with the theory's proponent, British Egyptologist Nicholas Reeves

THE BIZARRE BURIAL RITUALS OF KING TUTANKHAMUN Researchers from the American University in Cairo believe the king's appendage was embalmed at a 90-degree angle to make the young pharaoh appear as Osiris, the god of the underworld. The angling of the penis was a feature worn by 'corn-mummies', created in honour of Osiris. The mummy was also covered in black liquid to resemble Osiris' skin. Elsewhere, Tutankhamun's heart was missing when the tomb was discovered by Howard Carter in 1922. Religious texts claimed Osiris' heart was similarly removed by his brother Seth.On the outside of the tomb, decorations depicted Tutankhamun as Osiris.

'The infrared scan said we need to repeat it because we have something that we cannot be sure what it is exactly,' he said.

Reeves theorised Tutankhamun's tomb was in fact Nefertiti's, and when the boy king died unexpectedly at a young age, he was rushed into her tomb's outer chamber in Luxor's Valley of Kings in southern Egypt.

Hawass suggested the current antiquities minister hire an autonomous committee of experts to handle the investigation.

'We have to stop this media presence, because there is nothing to publish,' he said.

Nefertiti was famed for her beauty as depicted in the famous bust now in Berlin.

She, Tutankhamun and Akhenaten ruled during a turbulent time, and were one of ancient Egypt's most controversial ruling families.

Nefertiti was married to Akhenaten, who tried and failed to force Egypt to convert to monotheism.

DNA evidence has shown that Akhenaten was Tutankhamun's father, but Egyptologists do not agree on who his mother was.

Egyptologists rely on a mix of DNA evidence as well as information documented in ruins and historical calculations to map the pharaohs' family tree.

Most tombs contain more information about the passage to the afterlife rather than solid information about the deceased's biological lineage.

Antiquities Minister Khaled el-Anani (centre) said scans of the tomb would continue in line with the group's recommendations, but that no physical exploration would be allowed unless he was '100 per cent sure there is a cavity behind the wall'