See How India’s Biker Gangs and Bollywood Stars are Boycotting Cash to Help the Needy
See How India’s Biker Gangs and Bollywood Stars are Boycotting Cash to Help the Needy
India's Bike-Riding Patriots Rally Against Cash Biography Karan Deep Singh @kskaydee karan.singh@wsj.com An earnest band of Indian activists is asking rich people to boycott money, so there’s more for the needy. A motley mix of bankers, Bollywood stars and bikers have pledged their support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s November move to ban almost 90% of Indian currency to fight counterfeiting, tax evasion and terrorism. A story from The Wall Street Journal investigated how they are doing their part by continuing to spend while using as few physical rupees as possible and at the same time teaching those less fortunate how they can use less cash. Gangs of 20-somethings, wearing matching t-shirts, have been roaring around the roads of New Delhi and Mumbai trying to convince people to avoid using rupee notes or even withdraw any from the ATM. “If you don’t use cash, more of it will reach the poor,” said Shubham Chaudhary, the leader of one group. Click on this video to see them in action . Bikers Bollywood Cash Cash Crunch Demonetization India Indian rupee Patriots     Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print

India's Bike-Riding Patriots Rally Against Cash A band of self-proclaimed patriots in India is urging millions of countrymen to give up cash and use e-payments instead, to support Prime Minister Narendra Modi's campaign to fight counterfeiting and tax evasion. Video/Photo: Karan Deep Singh/The Wall Street Journal

An earnest band of Indian activists is asking rich people to boycott money, so there’s more for the needy.

A motley mix of bankers, Bollywood stars and bikers have pledged their support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s November move to ban almost 90% of Indian currency to fight counterfeiting, tax evasion and terrorism.

A story from The Wall Street Journal investigated how they are doing their part by continuing to spend while using as few physical rupees as possible and at the same time teaching those less fortunate how they can use less cash.

Gangs of 20-somethings, wearing matching t-shirts, have been roaring around the roads of New Delhi and Mumbai trying to convince people to avoid using rupee notes or even withdraw any from the ATM.

“If you don’t use cash, more of it will reach the poor,” said Shubham Chaudhary, the leader of one group.

Click on this video to see them in action.

For breaking news, features and analysis from India, follow WSJ India on Facebook.