There’s A Reason Why Twenty One Pilots Didn’t Wear Pants To Accept Their Grammy
There's A Reason Why Twenty One Pilots Didn't Wear Pants To Accept Their Grammy
On Sunday, Twenty One Pilots won their first Grammy, for Best Pop Duo or Group Performance. They won it for their hit song “Stressed Out.” It all seemed so normal, a lil’ kiss and hug. But then as they stood to walk to the stage, Tyler Joseph and Josh Dun…took off their pants. For a second, it seemed like they were just going to give a speech without acknowledging the fact they were in their underwear. But then Tyler mentioned how a few years ago, Tyler asked Josh to come over to his house to watch the Grammys: And as we were watching, we noticed every single one of us was in our underwear. And seriously, Josh turned to me — and we were no one at that time — and he said, “If we ever go to the Grammys, if we ever win a Grammy, we should receive it just like this.” And suddenly this all became very sweet. Here’s the full speech: The story, it starts in Columbus, Ohio, and it is a few years ago, and it was before Josh and I were able to make money playing music. And I called him up, and I said, “Hey, Josh, you want to come over to my rental house and watch the Grammys?” And he said, “Yeah, who is hanging there?” And I said, “A couple my roommates coming to watch the Grammys with us.” And as we were watching, we noticed every single one of us was in our underwear. And seriously, Josh turned to me — and we were no one at that time — and he said, “If we ever go to the Grammy, if we ever win a Grammy, we should receive it just like this.” So, not only is this amazing, but I want everyone who is watching at home to know that you could be next. So watch out, okay. Because anyone from anywhere can do anything. And this is that. Congrats, you two!   23 Celebs Who Lost Their Shit During Beyoncé's Grammys...    Rihanna And Her Bedazzled Flask Were Secretly The Best...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

The story, it starts in Columbus, Ohio, and it is a few years ago, and it was before Josh and I were able to make money playing music. And I called him up, and I said, “Hey, Josh, you want to come over to my rental house and watch the Grammys?” And he said, “Yeah, who is hanging there?” And I said, “A couple my roommates coming to watch the Grammys with us.” And as we were watching, we noticed every single one of us was in our underwear. And seriously, Josh turned to me — and we were no one at that time — and he said, “If we ever go to the Grammy, if we ever win a Grammy, we should receive it just like this.”

So, not only is this amazing, but I want everyone who is watching at home to know that you could be next. So watch out, okay. Because anyone from anywhere can do anything. And this is that.