Do you have any cosmetic surgery regrets? | Sarah Marsh

Contact author    The cosmetic surgery industry has seen relatively consistent growth over the years, but in 2016 the number of people going under the knife fell to a near-decade low. So what’s going on? The British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons, which compiles the annual audit, put the decline down to financial constraints in a climate of global fragility. But industry observers think social media-savvy presenters and models have been shifting the focus away from appearances to “ relatability ”. The news comes as some celebrities are turning their backs on cosmetic surgery. Take Katie Price , for example, who has had earlier work reversed. We want to hear from people who have had cosmetic surgery about how they feel now. Do you have regrets about going under the knife? Or do you feel happy with what you had done? Do you think the landscape has now changed? Why do you think cosmetic surgery numbers are down? Please tell us your thoughts and share your experiences. Topics  Cosmetic surgery   Beauty   Health   Celebrity

The cosmetic surgery industry has seen relatively consistent growth over the years, but in 2016 the number of people going under the knife fell to a near-decade low. So what’s going on?

The British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons, which compiles the annual audit, put the decline down to financial constraints in a climate of global fragility. But industry observers think social media-savvy presenters and models have been shifting the focus away from appearances to “relatability”.

The news comes as some celebrities are turning their backs on cosmetic surgery. Take Katie Price, for example, who has had earlier work reversed.



We want to hear from people who have had cosmetic surgery about how they feel now. Do you have regrets about going under the knife? Or do you feel happy with what you had done? Do you think the landscape has now changed? Why do you think cosmetic surgery numbers are down? Please tell us your thoughts and share your experiences.