UN Security Council to hold 'urgent' meeting following North Korea missile launch
UN Security Council to hold 'urgent' meeting following North Korea missile launch
Shares               Hours after North Korea fired off a missile into the East Sea Sunday morning, the United States, Japan and South Korea requested "urgent consultations" from the United Nations Security Council, an official at the U.S. Mission to the UN confirmed. The meeting will take place Monday. In a statement, the spokesman for the UN secretary-general condemned the missile launch, saying North Korea's action "is a further troubling violation of Security Council resolutions." "The DPRK leadership must return to full compliance with its international obligations and to the path of denuclearization," the statement read. "The Secretary-General appeals to the international community to continue to address this situation in a united manner."     A U.S. official said the missile was a KN-11 sub-based missile. It has a maximum range of 1,400 nautical miles, but only traveled 310. Sunday marked the first time North Korea fired a solid-booster missile from land, the official said. North Korea launched this type of missile last August from a water location, leading the government to claim a successful sub-launched missile test. South Korea's acting president and prime minister, Hwang Kyo-ahn, said his country will punish North Korea for the provocation. The launch came only two days after President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe strongly urged North Korea to abandon its nuclear and ballistic missile programs and not to take any further provocative actions.   In a brief joint statement with Trump at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, Saturday night, Abe called the missile launch "absolutely intolerable." "North Korea must fully comply with the relevant UN security council resolutions," he said. Abe, who spent the weekend with Trump in south Florida, said that he and the president were dedicated to working together and strengthening their alliance.  #ICYMI : Joint Statement with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on North Korea. pic.twitter.com/qEC87FKB1D Trump echoed the Japanese prime minister, saying, "The United States of America stands behind Japan a great ally 100 percent, thank you." He gave no further remarks, and neither leaders answered questions from reporters. Trump could comment further at a joint White House press conference this afternoon with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau .  Shares                  UN Security Council to hold 'urgent' meeting following North Korea missile launch   Water levels fall at threatened dam as 200K evacuated   Northeast braces for 2nd major snowstorm of the season   Family, friends mourn murdered Ohio State student   Judge to hear arguments on Dakota Access pipeline work   3 found with weapons cache on drug 'rescue' trip seek deals   Cold spell in Taiwan linked to over 150 deaths in 5 days   Trump, advisers leave embattled Flynn's status uncertain   Some China cities close poultry markets amid bird flu fears   China blames US, South Korea for North Korea missile launch   Trump says US '100 percent' behind Japan after North Korea missile test   Adele's and Beyonce's admiration for each other goes back years   Biggest mishaps of the 2017 Grammy Awards   Grammy Awards 2017: List of winners   2017 Oscar race heats up after the BAFTAs   Desperate immigrants risk perilous winter trek to Canada   Democrats consider their future and who to pick as party chair   4 Valentine's Day gifts that can be purchased without leaving the desk   Derek and Hannah Jeter are expecting a baby girl

Hours after North Korea fired off a missile into the East Sea Sunday morning, the United States, Japan and South Korea requested "urgent consultations" from the United Nations Security Council, an official at the U.S. Mission to the UN confirmed.

The meeting will take place Monday.

In a statement, the spokesman for the UN secretary-general condemned the missile launch, saying North Korea's action "is a further troubling violation of Security Council resolutions."

"The DPRK leadership must return to full compliance with its international obligations and to the path of denuclearization," the statement read. "The Secretary-General appeals to the international community to continue to address this situation in a united manner."

A U.S. official said the missile was a KN-11 sub-based missile. It has a maximum range of 1,400 nautical miles, but only traveled 310. Sunday marked the first time North Korea fired a solid-booster missile from land, the official said.

North Korea launched this type of missile last August from a water location, leading the government to claim a successful sub-launched missile test.

South Korea's acting president and prime minister, Hwang Kyo-ahn, said his country will punish North Korea for the provocation.

The launch came only two days after President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe strongly urged North Korea to abandon its nuclear and ballistic missile programs and not to take any further provocative actions.

Susan Walsh/AP Photo

In a brief joint statement with Trump at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, Saturday night, Abe called the missile launch "absolutely intolerable."

"North Korea must fully comply with the relevant UN security council resolutions," he said.

Abe, who spent the weekend with Trump in south Florida, said that he and the president were dedicated to working together and strengthening their alliance.

#ICYMI: Joint Statement with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on North Korea. pic.twitter.com/qEC87FKB1D — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 12, 2017

Trump echoed the Japanese prime minister, saying, "The United States of America stands behind Japan a great ally 100 percent, thank you." He gave no further remarks, and neither leaders answered questions from reporters.

Trump could comment further at a joint White House press conference this afternoon with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

ABC News' Justin Fishel, Joohee Cho, and Dean Schabner contributed to this report.