Scientists Have Formulated An Equation To Show Just How Much Damage Humans Are Causing To Earth
Scientists Have Formulated An Equation To Show Just How Much Damage Humans Are Causing To Earth
Scientists Have Formulated An Equation To Show Just How Much Damage Humans Are Causing To Earth Scientists have formulated a mathematical equation to project the mammoth effect homo sapiens are having on the planet and causing irreversible damage to the environment. We’re now living in The impact of capitalist and heavily industrialised societies is equivalent to how an asteroid would impact the planet. An equation aids in creating a manifestation of the risks of climate change through large-scale and widespread alterations to the planet. Owen Gaffney and Will Stephen of Australian National University drew up the equation, which was published in The Anthropocene Review journal, by homing in on the rate of change of Earth’s life support system including the atmosphere, oceans, forests, waterway, ice sheets and other diverse limbs of the planet. Owen Gaffney wrote in the New Scientist, “For four billion years, the rate of change of the Earth system (E) has been a complex function of astronomical (A) and geophysical (G) forces plus internal dynamics (I): Earth’s orbit around the sun, gravitational interactions with other planets, the sun’s heat output, colliding continents, volcanoes and evolution, among others.” He added, “In the equation, astronomical and geophysical forces tend to zero because of their slow nature or rarity, as do internal dynamics, for now. All these forces still exert pressure, but currently on orders of magnitude less than human impact.” Steffen says that these forces have changed our natural environment at a rate of 0.01 degrees Celsius per century. However, greenhouse gases as a result of human activity over the past 45 years “have increased the rate of temperature rise to 1.7 degrees Celsius per century, dwarfing the natural background rate”. According to the two authors, these figures represent a change that is 170 times faster than natural forces. “We are not saying the astronomical forces of our solar system or geological processes have disappeared, but in terms of their impact in such a short period of time they are now negligible compared with our own influence,” Steffen said. “Crystallising this evidence in the form of a simple equation gives the current situation a clarity that the wealth of data often dilutes.

Scientists have formulated a mathematical equation to project the mammoth effect homo sapiens are having on the planet and causing irreversible damage to the environment.

We’re now living in the Anthropocene Era - where human activity is the primary driver of change to the environment. The impact of capitalist and heavily industrialised societies is equivalent to how an asteroid would impact the planet.

Dalleschronicle

An equation aids in creating a manifestation of the risks of climate change through large-scale and widespread alterations to the planet. Owen Gaffney and Will Stephen of Australian National University drew up the equation, which was published in The Anthropocene Review journal, by homing in on the rate of change of Earth’s life support system including the atmosphere, oceans, forests, waterway, ice sheets and other diverse limbs of the planet.

Owen Gaffney wrote in the New Scientist, “For four billion years, the rate of change of the Earth system (E) has been a complex function of astronomical (A) and geophysical (G) forces plus internal dynamics (I): Earth’s orbit around the sun, gravitational interactions with other planets, the sun’s heat output, colliding continents, volcanoes and evolution, among others.”

He added, “In the equation, astronomical and geophysical forces tend to zero because of their slow nature or rarity, as do internal dynamics, for now. All these forces still exert pressure, but currently on orders of magnitude less than human impact.”

Reuters

Steffen says that these forces have changed our natural environment at a rate of 0.01 degrees Celsius per century. However, greenhouse gases as a result of human activity over the past 45 years “have increased the rate of temperature rise to 1.7 degrees Celsius per century, dwarfing the natural background rate”.

According to the two authors, these figures represent a change that is 170 times faster than natural forces.

“We are not saying the astronomical forces of our solar system or geological processes have disappeared, but in terms of their impact in such a short period of time they are now negligible compared with our own influence,” Steffen said.

“Crystallising this evidence in the form of a simple equation gives the current situation a clarity that the wealth of data often dilutes.

Reuters

Don't Miss 745 SHARES 74.4 K SHARES 49.9 K SHARES 64.7 K SHARES 26.5 K SHARES

“What we do is give a very specific number to show how humans are affecting the earth over a short timeframe. It shows that while other forces operate over millions of years, we as humans are having an impact at the same strength as the many of these other forces, but in the timeframe of just a couple of centuries.

“The human magnitude of climate change looks more like a meteorite strike than a gradual change.”

Planet Earth, they wrote, has proved its resilience beyond doubt as it has for millions of years withstood human meddling with the environment’s most natural state of flux. Having said that, homo sapiens have now reached an era where if we fail to reduce the impact of our activities, then climate change could “trigger societal collapse”, their research concluded.