Blast at Pakistan protest rally kills at least 16

An apparent suicide bomber detonated a powerful blast Monday amid a protest rally by drug company officials and pharmacists, killing at least 16 people and injuring 30 in the Pakistani city of Lahore. There was no immediate claim of responsibility. But some Islamist groups have sharply denounced the government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif after a decision to place a militant leader, cleric Hafiz Saeed, under house arrest. The group Saeed previously led was accused of staging a mass terrorist attack in Mumbai in 2008 that killed 166 people. Two senior police officials were among those killed in the attack, which occurred in the middle of the peaceful protest outside a provincial legislature building. Officials had received warnings from a counterterrorism agency that a suicide attack might occur in the area, and the protest rally was heavily guarded. Pakistan’s Geo News quoted hospital officials as saying the death toll was at least 16. Video showed a chaotic scene with flames rising and people running and screaming, while ambulances and police vehicles rushed to the scene. It was not immediately clear why the drug industry protest was targeted. The location of the blast — on a major road near the Punjab Assembly — is the site of frequent protest gatherings. Last week, several Islamist groups held demonstrations in part to protest alleged abuse by Indian forces in the disputed Kashmir region. Protests also have been held calling for the release of the militant cleric Saeed. In a statement, Sharif expressed both sorrow and defiance, praising the slain police officers and vowing to continue the fight against terrorism, which has taken thousands of lives across Pakistan in the last decade. “Terrorism isn’t a novelty for us. Our story has been one of constant struggle against its grasp, and a fight for the soul of Pakistan,” Sharif said. “We have fought this fight against the terrorists among us and will continue to fight it until we liberate our people of this cancer . . . We will not stop until we can call ourselves a free and secure people; that is a promise.”       Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world   Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news

Police and security officers cordon off the area after a bombing in Lahore, Pakistan, on Feb. 13. (K.M. Chaudary/AP)

An apparent suicide bomber detonated a powerful blast Monday amid a protest rally by drug company officials and pharmacists, killing at least 16 people and injuring 30 in the Pakistani city of Lahore.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility. But some Islamist groups have sharply denounced the government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif after a decision to place a militant leader, cleric Hafiz Saeed, under house arrest.

The group Saeed previously led was accused of staging a mass terrorist attack in Mumbai in 2008 that killed 166 people.

Two senior police officials were among those killed in the attack, which occurred in the middle of the peaceful protest outside a provincial legislature building. Officials had received warnings from a counterterrorism agency that a suicide attack might occur in the area, and the protest rally was heavily guarded.

Pakistan’s Geo News quoted hospital officials as saying the death toll was at least 16.

Video showed a chaotic scene with flames rising and people running and screaming, while ambulances and police vehicles rushed to the scene. It was not immediately clear why the drug industry protest was targeted.

The location of the blast — on a major road near the Punjab Assembly — is the site of frequent protest gatherings.

Last week, several Islamist groups held demonstrations in part to protest alleged abuse by Indian forces in the disputed Kashmir region. Protests also have been held calling for the release of the militant cleric Saeed.

In a statement, Sharif expressed both sorrow and defiance, praising the slain police officers and vowing to continue the fight against terrorism, which has taken thousands of lives across Pakistan in the last decade.

“Terrorism isn’t a novelty for us. Our story has been one of constant struggle against its grasp, and a fight for the soul of Pakistan,” Sharif said. “We have fought this fight against the terrorists among us and will continue to fight it until we liberate our people of this cancer . . . We will not stop until we can call ourselves a free and secure people; that is a promise.”

Read more:

Today’s coverage from Post correspondents around the world

Like Washington Post World on Facebook and stay updated on foreign news