Woman Claims Popeyes Served Her Flesh-Eating Worms in $1 Million Lawsuit
Woman Claims Popeyes Served Her Flesh-Eating Worms in $1 Million Lawsuit
Some people might say you get what you pay for when it comes to making unhealthy fast food choices. But a San Antonio woman got more than she bargained for during a recent trip to Popeyes. According to a $1 million lawsuit filed by the woman, the chain restaurant served her flesh-eating screwworms as part of her meal. The reports that the woman, identified as Karen Goode, ordered rice and beans that came loaded with the creepy insects that are known for devouring human flesh. In her lawsuit, which was filed last week, Goode claimed the screwworms laid eggs in her digestive tract after she ate them, embedding themselves in her small intestine. She said the eggs then hatched and started eating her "alive from the inside-out." Gross. Screwworms were a serious issue last fall for the Florida Keys and surrounding areas, to the point where an agricultural state of emergency was called and animals from that area were banned from entering other places. These jokers will f*ck up anything they infest, and it isn't a pretty sight (don't Google their work, trust). Cases of these screwworms infesting humans are reportedly rare, but it sounds like it happened in Goode's case. Goode's lawyer says the screwworms made her become ill (obviously), with her body being plagued by E. coli, Helicobacter Pylori bacteria, and injuries to her digestive tract, shoulders, arm, and neck. These ailments caused her to lose her business and practically all of the things she owned. She's now seeking "more than $1 million" from Popeyes and the local Popeyes franchisee, Z&H Foods Inc. The question is, were these hatched worms that like rice? Or were they tiny eggs that happened to be in the rice and beans? Either way, stay woke.

Some people might say you get what you pay for when it comes to making unhealthy fast food choices. But a San Antonio woman got more than she bargained for during a recent trip to Popeyes. According to a $1 million lawsuit filed by the woman, the chain restaurant served her flesh-eating screwworms as part of her meal.

The San Antonio Express-News reports that the woman, identified as Karen Goode, ordered rice and beans that came loaded with the creepy insects that are known for devouring human flesh. In her lawsuit, which was filed last week, Goode claimed the screwworms laid eggs in her digestive tract after she ate them, embedding themselves in her small intestine. She said the eggs then hatched and started eating her "alive from the inside-out."

Gross.

Screwworms were a serious issue last fall for the Florida Keys and surrounding areas, to the point where an agricultural state of emergency was called and animals from that area were banned from entering other places. These jokers will f*ck up anything they infest, and it isn't a pretty sight (don't Google their work, trust). Cases of these screwworms infesting humans are reportedly rare, but it sounds like it happened in Goode's case.

Goode's lawyer says the screwworms made her become ill (obviously), with her body being plagued by E. coli, Helicobacter Pylori bacteria, and injuries to her digestive tract, shoulders, arm, and neck. These ailments caused her to lose her business and practically all of the things she owned. She's now seeking "more than $1 million" from Popeyes and the local Popeyes franchisee, Z&H Foods Inc.

The question is, were these hatched worms that looked like rice? Or were they tiny eggs that happened to be in the rice and beans? Either way, stay woke.