Derek Jeter, wife Hannah Jeter announce couple is expecting first child
It's a girl! Jeter, wife Hannah expecting 1st child
It's a girl! Jeter, wife Hannah expecting 1st child Players with something to prove Pop quiz! How well do you know the baseball offseason? Spring drama? Seven players for two spots is L.A.'s early theme Is Trea Turner the next Rickey Henderson? At his first press conference of the season, Mets ... Flamingos, fast cars and fierce youngsters: Baseball is back! Names to watch: Baseball's most interesting non-roster invitees Mike Ilitch's passion earned loyalty across sports in Detroit Dodgers wrap up their winter with Chase Utley, Franklin Gutierrez deals Inside MLB's potential new strike zone Prince Fielder's career was cut short, but he's still cooking ... literally Place your bets! Vegas win projections that are way off Mexico banking on pitching, home field as edges for WBC David Rollins' offseason odyssey makes another stop on waiver wire Way-too-early 2017 MLB All-Star rosters Carlos Martinez for Cy Young? A Cardinals resurgence? Mike Matheny weighs in Which ballparks are friendliest to hitters and pitchers? The state of baseball's best teams Will Kyle Hendricks and Aaron Sanchez repeat as ERA champs? Can Gary Sanchez do the impossible -- and live up to last season? Who's your MVP for 2017? We've got one for every team Can Freddie Freeman repeat his MVP-level breakthrough? Can Rick Porcello match his 22-win season in 2017? Mike Napoli signs ... finally, but does he help Rangers? Andrew Benintendi, baseball's No. 1 prospect, bulks up Contenders or pretenders? The state of MLB's mid-tier teams The Cespedes brothers, Yoenis and Yoelkis, are not quite alike Mike & Mike congratulate the Jeters on their impending new addition and joke about Derek's chances of being able to choose his daughter's name. (1:41) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The Captain will soon go by a new nickname: Dad. Derek Jeter and his wife Hannah announced Monday that they are expecting their first child. Hannah Jeter, in a column published on her husband's The Players' Tribune website, wrote that she is pregnant with a baby girl. Hannah and Derek Jeter share their next chapter: https://t.co/ZY6aDhRQH6  pic.twitter.com/5heb7MTobQ — The Players' Tribune (@PlayersTribune) February 13, 2017 Hannah, who didn't reveal how far along she is in her pregnancy, also wrote that Derek "already has a name in mind," but that she isn't sold on the former Yankees star's choice. "He already has a name in mind -- he's set on it," Hannah wrote. "[We'll see.] He'll say when he calls me during the day: 'So, how are you and so-and-so doing?' "'That's not the name yet, sweetie.' Whatever her name is, I know she'll run circles around him." Derek, 42, and Hannah, 26, were married last July, less than two years after the 14-time All-Star retired from baseball. Jeter won five World Series titles and finished his 20-year career as the Yankees' all-time leader with 3,465 hits. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Mike & Mike congratulate the Jeters on their impending new addition and joke about Derek's chances of being able to choose his daughter's name. (1:41)

The Captain will soon go by a new nickname: Dad.

Derek Jeter and his wife Hannah announced Monday that they are expecting their first child.

Hannah Jeter, in a column published on her husband's The Players' Tribune website, wrote that she is pregnant with a baby girl.

Hannah and Derek Jeter share their next chapter: https://t.co/ZY6aDhRQH6 pic.twitter.com/5heb7MTobQ — The Players' Tribune (@PlayersTribune) February 13, 2017

Hannah, who didn't reveal how far along she is in her pregnancy, also wrote that Derek "already has a name in mind," but that she isn't sold on the former Yankees star's choice.

"He already has a name in mind -- he's set on it," Hannah wrote. "[We'll see.] He'll say when he calls me during the day: 'So, how are you and so-and-so doing?'

"'That's not the name yet, sweetie.' Whatever her name is, I know she'll run circles around him."

Derek, 42, and Hannah, 26, were married last July, less than two years after the 14-time All-Star retired from baseball. Jeter won five World Series titles and finished his 20-year career as the Yankees' all-time leader with 3,465 hits.