How Rihanna Lowkey Won The 2017 Grammys
How Rihanna Lowkey Won The 2017 Grammys
While most of the talk coming out of the 59th annual Grammy Awards ceremony last night has to do with Beyoncé (which includes everything from her heavenly performance to Adele praising Bey while being given the awards should've received), there's one queen we need to acknowledge: Rihanna. Many feel like her 2016 album was low-key one of the best of the year, and there's no doubt that her single "Work" with Drake was one of the biggest records of 2016, but somehow she got shut out of every category she was in. Rih Rih didn't let that f*ck up her fun, though, and over the course of the evening (and throughout our morning) there have been a multitude of moments that have been captured by the faithful internets for prosperity. So, without further adieu, let's take a look at how Rihanna kept the party live without the need for those awards. During the three-and-a-half-hour award show, Rihanna and her bejeweled flask was all of us. "i think it's time for another shot" i love rihanna 😂 pic.twitter.com/RgWfUakHv1 Rihanna and her flask pic.twitter.com/z1j8Ozexom Rihanna stares straight into the camera as she tries to put away her flask #GRAMMYs  pic.twitter.com/8z7dx8pZfp And trust, you know you'd be all up on your Facetime if you were at the Grammys, too. BITCH RIH ON FACETIME pic.twitter.com/rVH98FHr0C At some point, Chance was either trying to propose or ask Rihanna if he could have the honor of sipping from her magical flask. I'm telling you Rihanna flask is everything even Chance the Rapper paid homage to it yo pic.twitter.com/U3m4Xl4B2r Rih Rih, the best BFF ever, made sure her friend was turning up as well. She seemed to get a kick out of Bruno Mars' joke about women still having tags in their dresses. Rihanna also had a moment during Adele's George Michael tribute. Truth be told, Rihanna might be the best person to go to ANY awards ceremony with. No, forreal Rih Rih. Make us your +1 next time!

While most of the talk coming out of the 59th annual Grammy Awards ceremony last night has to do with Beyoncé (which includes everything from her heavenly performance to Adele praising Bey while being given the awards Lemonade should've received), there's one queen we need to acknowledge: Rihanna. Many feel like her 2016 album Anti was low-key one of the best of the year, and there's no doubt that her single "Work" with Drake was one of the biggest records of 2016, but somehow she got shut out of every category she was in.

Rih Rih didn't let that f*ck up her fun, though, and over the course of the evening (and throughout our morning) there have been a multitude of moments that have been captured by the faithful internets for prosperity. So, without further adieu, let's take a look at how Rihanna kept the party live without the need for those awards.

During the three-and-a-half-hour award show, Rihanna and her bejeweled flask was all of us.

"i think it's time for another shot" i love rihanna 😂 pic.twitter.com/RgWfUakHv1 — Rihanna Reactions ✨ (@RiRiHumor) February 13, 2017

Rihanna and her flask pic.twitter.com/z1j8Ozexom — Best Vines (@TheFunnyVine) February 13, 2017

Rihanna stares straight into the camera as she tries to put away her flask #GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/8z7dx8pZfp — Mashable (@mashable) February 13, 2017

And trust, you know you'd be all up on your Facetime if you were at the Grammys, too.

At some point, Chance was either trying to propose or ask Rihanna if he could have the honor of sipping from her magical flask.

I'm telling you Rihanna flask is everything even Chance the Rapper paid homage to it yo pic.twitter.com/U3m4Xl4B2r — Rafael Shawn Sanz (@sanzrafael75) February 13, 2017

Rih Rih, the best BFF ever, made sure her friend was turning up as well.

She seemed to get a kick out of Bruno Mars' joke about women still having tags in their dresses.

Rihanna also had a moment during Adele's George Michael tribute.

Truth be told, Rihanna might be the best person to go to ANY awards ceremony with.

No, forreal Rih Rih. Make us your +1 next time!