Study Finds Many Americans Need More Than A Year to Recover From $1,500 Financial Hit
Study Finds Many Americans Need More Than A Year to Recover From $1,500 Financial Hit
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Elizabeth Harris       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (AP Photo/Don Petersen, File) As politicians in Washington have been busy debating the veracity of figures as diverse as the real unemployment rate to inaugural crowd size , there’s one number they should not lose sight of: $1,500.00. According to a recent report from the JPMorgan Chase Institute , that’s roughly the amount nearly four of 10 American families paid to cover what they describe as extraordinary medical, auto repair or tax bills annually — requiring more than a year to recover their financial footing, with potentially serious impact on their physical and emotional health as a result. JPMorgan Chase Institute’s latest look, examining anonymized data from about 250,000 Chase checking account customers (weighted for age and income to reflect national averages) from January 2013 to December 2015 builds on prior efforts that expose a root cause for many economic fears: the lack of sufficient savings to adequately cover necessary, but out-of-the-ordinary expenses. (In a series of reports, the Pew Charitable Trusts also found many families struggle to recover from financial emergencies and that a lack of sufficient savings contributed to greater anxiety ). There appears to be a correlation between financial health and physical health. The report shows “extraordinary medical payments” were common during tax season and when families had $900 more in liquid assets prior to making the medical payment. Yet many families did not recover a full year after making the payment — savings was diminished for almost half of the families (48%) and credit card debt was high for almost a third (32%).  In particular, older Americans showed the highest percentages of “extraordinary payments:” 44% of those 65 and older made at least one payment of roughly $1,500.00 for medical, auto repair or tax bills. The timing of major medical bills coinciding with a rise in income suggests it “was linked to ability to pay,” according to the report, (which also cites a 2015 study from The American Psychological Association finding 12% of adults reported skipping a visit to the doctor when they needed health care because of financial concerns). “ ” Is there a solution? Certainly efforts underway to help families build emergency savings, find adequate health insurance and plan for income and expense volatility are key to building financial security. But it’s not just the capacity to pay bills that concern. If 40% of Americans cannot recover from a $1,500.00 expense for nearly a year— something anyone who’s taken a car to the mechanic or had to pay a recent doctor or dental bill is all too familiar with — how can families begin to take the next step to think about saving for longer-term goals such as investing, buying a home, enrolling in school or starting a new business?    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As politicians in Washington have been busy debating the veracity of figures as diverse as the real unemployment rate to inaugural crowd size, there’s one number they should not lose sight of: $1,500.00.

According to a recent report from the JPMorgan Chase Institute, that’s roughly the amount nearly four of 10 American families paid to cover what they describe as extraordinary medical, auto repair or tax bills annually — requiring more than a year to recover their financial footing, with potentially serious impact on their physical and emotional health as a result.

JPMorgan Chase Institute’s latest look, examining anonymized data from about 250,000 Chase checking account customers (weighted for age and income to reflect national averages) from January 2013 to December 2015 builds on prior efforts that expose a root cause for many economic fears: the lack of sufficient savings to adequately cover necessary, but out-of-the-ordinary expenses. (In a series of reports, the Pew Charitable Trusts also found many families struggle to recover from financial emergencies and that a lack of sufficient savings contributed to greater anxiety).

There appears to be a correlation between financial health and physical health. The report shows “extraordinary medical payments” were common during tax season and when families had $900 more in liquid assets prior to making the medical payment. Yet many families did not recover a full year after making the payment — savings was diminished for almost half of the families (48%) and credit card debt was high for almost a third (32%). In particular, older Americans showed the highest percentages of “extraordinary payments:” 44% of those 65 and older made at least one payment of roughly $1,500.00 for medical, auto repair or tax bills.

The timing of major medical bills coinciding with a rise in income suggests it “was linked to ability to pay,” according to the report, (which also cites a 2015 study from The American Psychological Association finding 12% of adults reported skipping a visit to the doctor when they needed health care because of financial concerns).

“Families with lower levels of savings saw a greater increase in savings prior to major medical payments,” according to Diana Farrell, president and CEO, JPMorgan Chase by email. “This suggests they may have been more constrained and had to delay healthcare utilization or payment of their medical bill until they had sufficient funds to cover the payment.”

Is there a solution? Certainly efforts underway to help families build emergency savings, find adequate health insurance and plan for income and expense volatility are key to building financial security. But it’s not just the capacity to pay bills that’s a concern. If 40% of Americans cannot recover from a $1,500.00 expense for nearly a year— something anyone who’s taken a car to the mechanic or had to pay a recent doctor or dental bill is all too familiar with — how can families begin to take the next step to think about saving for longer-term goals such as investing, buying a home, enrolling in school or starting a new business?