‘NEVER AGAIN!’: Scott Baio swears off Nordstrom after Ivanka snub
‘NEVER AGAIN!’: Scott Baio swears off Nordstrom after Ivanka snub
Chachi doesn’t love Nordstrom anymore. Conservative actor Scott Baio vowed to stop shopping at Nordstrom after President Trump attacked the luxury department store chain for dropping his daughter’s fashion line. According to Nordstrom, Ivanka Trump’s clothing line was yanked from the racks because it wasn’t selling well. But the commander in chief and many of his supporters , including Baio, suspect that the retailer dropped the first daughter’s brand for political reasons. Over the weekend, Baio, who is best know for portraying Chachi Arcola on “Happy Days” and its spinoff “Joanie Loves Chachi,” tweeted a receipt showing that his wife, Renee Baio, spent $30,062.16 at Nordstrom. But he insisted that this would never happen again. Dear @Nordstrom NEVER AGAIN! @IvankaTrump  @realDonaldTrump  @DonaldJTrumpJr  @EricTrump  @MrsScottBaio  pic.twitter.com/yPcwr6y4qS — Scott Baio (@ScottBaio) February 11, 2017 The sitcom actor tagged the president and his three eldest children: Ivanka Trump, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump. On Feb. 8, the president tweeted his allegation of mistreatment to his 24.8 million followers. My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @Nordstrom . She is a great person — always pushing me to do the right thing! Terrible! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 8, 2017 Later that day, White House press secretary Sean Spicer defended Trump’s tweet. He said there are “clearly efforts” to undermine the Trump name because of the president’s politics. “For someone to take out their concern with his policies on a family member of his is not acceptable, and the president has every right as a father to stand up for them,” Spicer said. The Wall Street Journal reports that sales of Ivanka Trump’s fashion line fell 32 percent last fiscal year. Top Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway sparked the greatest outcry after Nordstrom’s decision, however, when she urged the public to buy Ivanka’s products. Ethics experts said she crossed the line, and Spicer said Conway had been “counseled” on the issue.

Chachi doesn’t love Nordstrom anymore.

Conservative actor Scott Baio vowed to stop shopping at Nordstrom after President Trump attacked the luxury department store chain for dropping his daughter’s fashion line.

According to Nordstrom, Ivanka Trump’s clothing line was yanked from the racks because it wasn’t selling well. But the commander in chief and many of his supporters, including Baio, suspect that the retailer dropped the first daughter’s brand for political reasons.

Over the weekend, Baio, who is best know for portraying Chachi Arcola on “Happy Days” and its spinoff “Joanie Loves Chachi,” tweeted a receipt showing that his wife, Renee Baio, spent $30,062.16 at Nordstrom. But he insisted that this would never happen again.





The sitcom actor tagged the president and his three eldest children: Ivanka Trump, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump.

On Feb. 8, the president tweeted his allegation of mistreatment to his 24.8 million followers.

My daughter Ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @Nordstrom. She is a great person — always pushing me to do the right thing! Terrible! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 8, 2017





Later that day, White House press secretary Sean Spicer defended Trump’s tweet. He said there are “clearly efforts” to undermine the Trump name because of the president’s politics.

“For someone to take out their concern with his policies on a family member of his is not acceptable, and the president has every right as a father to stand up for them,” Spicer said.

The Wall Street Journal reports that sales of Ivanka Trump’s fashion line fell 32 percent last fiscal year.

Top Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway sparked the greatest outcry after Nordstrom’s decision, however, when she urged the public to buy Ivanka’s products. Ethics experts said she crossed the line, and Spicer said Conway had been “counseled” on the issue.