The Countries With The Largest Shadow Economies [Infographic]
The Countries With The Largest Shadow Economies [Infographic]
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Niall McCarthy       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The shadow economy, the black market, the non-observed economy or the underground economy. It goes by many names and it's generally defined as businesses and individuals engaging in inappropriate practices without complying with certain legal obligations such as paying tax or maintaining acceptable standards of employment. Examples include a warehouse worker driving an unlicensed taxi between shifts, an electrician accepting cash payments without declaring his earnings or a simple drug deal in a shady alleyway. Activities like these cost governments across the globe trillions of dollars every year with some observers believing that the shadow economy is now the second largest economy worldwide. According to the IMF, shadow economies and corruption are well-established in heavily regulated economies with weak administration. The phenomenon is much smaller in countries with strong, well-regulated and efficient government institutions. This can be seen by looking at the economic situation in former Soviet countries in the late 1990s. Back then, Georgia's shadow economy was estimated at 64 percent of GDP while Russia's was at about 44 percent. Today, many countries in southern Europe have booming shadow economies with Greece especially notable, though the scale of underground activity can only be measured indirectly. According to a new study published by the Institute for Applied Economic Research at the University of Tübingen in Germany (IAW), the Greek shadow economy is estimated to average 21.5 percent of GDP. Its fellow southern European states of Italy and Spain also have shadow economies of 19.8 and 17.2 percent of GDP respectively. In the United States, accepting cash without a declaration doesn't seem to be quite as common. IAW's study places U.S. shadow economic activity at 5.4 percent of the country's GDP.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

The shadow economy, the black market, the non-observed economy or the underground economy. It goes by many names and it's generally defined as businesses and individuals engaging in inappropriate practices without complying with certain legal obligations such as paying tax or maintaining acceptable standards of employment. Examples include a warehouse worker driving an unlicensed taxi between shifts, an electrician accepting cash payments without declaring his earnings or a simple drug deal in a shady alleyway. Activities like these cost governments across the globe trillions of dollars every year with some observers believing that the shadow economy is now the second largest economy worldwide.

According to the IMF, shadow economies and corruption are well-established in heavily regulated economies with weak administration. The phenomenon is much smaller in countries with strong, well-regulated and efficient government institutions. This can be seen by looking at the economic situation in former Soviet countries in the late 1990s. Back then, Georgia's shadow economy was estimated at 64 percent of GDP while Russia's was at about 44 percent.

Today, many countries in southern Europe have booming shadow economies with Greece especially notable, though the scale of underground activity can only be measured indirectly. According to a new study published by the Institute for Applied Economic Research at the University of Tübingen in Germany (IAW), the Greek shadow economy is estimated to average 21.5 percent of GDP. Its fellow southern European states of Italy and Spain also have shadow economies of 19.8 and 17.2 percent of GDP respectively. In the United States, accepting cash without a declaration doesn't seem to be quite as common. IAW's study places U.S. shadow economic activity at 5.4 percent of the country's GDP.

*Click below to enlarge (charted by Statista)