Plus-Size Guys Tried ASOS’ New Plus-Size Line For Men And Totally Slayed
Plus-Size Guys Tried ASOS' New Plus-Size Line For Men And Totally Slayed
UK-based clothing brand ASOS recently launched their first-ever plus-size collection for men (7 years after their women’s plus-size line!), and damn, it’s filled with some seriously cool streetwear staples. ASOS / Via us.asos.com ASOS / Via us.asos.com ASOS / Via us.asos.com ASOS’ collection ranges from XL to 4XL and includes casual-cool pieces (like tees and joggers) and trendy workwear (like button-up shirts and trousers) in an assortment of plus-size brands. So, four plus-size guys who are always on the lookout for more trendy pieces above a size XL decided to try out the line for themselves. Here’s how it went down: Macey J. Foronda/BuzzFeed Macey J. Foronda/BuzzFeed Shirts, XL; jackets, XL; and pants, 40. Biker jacket, 2X ( $375 ); button-up shirt, 2X ( $60 ); skinny jeans, 40×32 ( $45 ). “I know it’s dramatic to say that this shoot changed how I see fashion, but what the hell, I love a little drama. Since gaining a bit of weight in recent years, I thought the only option for me was to make choices that hide my body, not show it off. I’m glad this outfit taught me otherwise. Also, I felt like a bad-ass bitch.” Macey J. Foronda/BuzzFeed Macey J. Foronda/BuzzFeed Shirts, XL; jackets, XL; and pants, 38. Denim jacket, XL ( $68 ); white tee, XL ( $9 ); and straight leg jeans, 38×30 ( $113 ). “I felt really confident in the final look, which was a surprise. I’m used to using structured, tailored pieces to give the illusion of having a more traditional masculine shape, so wearing something with a less of a defined silhouette was definitely a departure for me. I actually liked the jacket so much I bought it! It’s really liberating for me to feel like I can pull off a more relaxed style.” Macey J. Foronda/BuzzFeed Macey J. Foronda/BuzzFeed Shirts, L; jackets, L/XL; and pants, 36/38. Bomber jacket, 3X ( $60 ); long-sleeve shirt, 3X ( $13 ); and ripped jeans, 40×36 ( $53 ). “I love the fit of my ASOS look even though the sizing was off for me. Overall, My jeans fit amazing but were tagged as a 40, and I typically wear a 36/38.” Macey J. Foronda/BuzzFeed Macey J. Foronda/BuzzFeed Shirts, 2X/3X; jackets, 2X/3X; and pants, 42. Hooded bomber jacket, 3X ( $68 ); camo tee, 3X ( $28 ); and skinny joggers, 2X ( $28 ). : “I LOVED my final look. It’s super on-trend and bold. , and I’m so glad they’re continuing to do that with this ASOS Plus collection!” Overall, the guys loved ASOS’ plus-size options and gained some serious confidence (and modeling skills, hiii) in the process. To shop the full collection, go here . Nick Holliday  Chris Anthony  Troy Solomon

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.