Dominican paper apologizes for using Baldwin photo for Trump
Dominican paper apologizes for using Baldwin photo for Trump
Shares                 Alec Baldwin does a pretty convincing Donald Trump impersonation - just ask a newspaper in the Dominican Republic . El Nacional published an apology on Saturday after mistakenly running a photo of the actor doing his impression of the U.S. president on " Saturday Night Live " instead of Trump himself. Accompanying an article in its Friday edition headlined in Spanish: "Trump says settlements in Israel don't favor peace," a photo of a scowling Baldwin in a blond wig appears next to a photo of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. In a statement posted on its website, the Dominican newspaper said a photo of Baldwin imitating Trump - over the caption "Donald Trump, president of the USA" - was published on page 19 and the mistake went unnoticed by the newspaper's staff. "El Nacional apologizes to its readers and anyone who felt affect by the publication" of the photo, the statement said. Trump has lashed out at the way "Saturday Night Live" has lampooned him, saying Baldwin's semi-regular portrayal of him "stinks." Shares                  Dominican paper apologizes for using Baldwin photo for Trump   Biggest mishaps of the 2017 Grammy Awards   Princess Kate coloring book on sale at Kensington Palace   Everything you need to know about 'The Walking Dead' mid-season premiere   Derek and Hannah Jeter are expecting a baby girl   Adele's and Beyonce's admiration for each other goes back years   2017 Oscar race heats up after the BAFTAs   'Big Little Lies' co-stars Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon interview each other   How much do you know about Oscars host Jimmy Kimmel?   Nick Viall describes each 'Bachelor' contestant with 1 word   Tracee Ellis Ross explains why you may never find out who she's dating   Water levels fall at threatened dam as 200K evacuated   Northeast braces for 2nd major snowstorm of the season   Family, friends mourn murdered Ohio State student

Alec Baldwin does a pretty convincing Donald Trump impersonation - just ask a newspaper in the Dominican Republic.

El Nacional published an apology on Saturday after mistakenly running a photo of the actor doing his impression of the U.S. president on "Saturday Night Live" instead of Trump himself.

Accompanying an article in its Friday edition headlined in Spanish: "Trump says settlements in Israel don't favor peace," a photo of a scowling Baldwin in a blond wig appears next to a photo of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

In a statement posted on its website, the Dominican newspaper said a photo of Baldwin imitating Trump - over the caption "Donald Trump, president of the USA" - was published on page 19 and the mistake went unnoticed by the newspaper's staff.

"El Nacional apologizes to its readers and anyone who felt affect by the publication" of the photo, the statement said.

Trump has lashed out at the way "Saturday Night Live" has lampooned him, saying Baldwin's semi-regular portrayal of him "stinks."