Suicide Bomber Kills 13 at Protest in Pakistan
Suicide Bomber Kills 13 at Protest in Pakistan
LAHORE, Pakistan — At least 13 people were killed, including six police officers, by a suicide bomber on Monday during a protest by hundreds of pharmacists in downtown Lahore, in eastern Pakistan, officials said. The attack wounded 108 people, 13 of them critically. A breakaway faction of the Pakistani Taliban, Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, claimed responsibility for the attack and warned the government of more strikes to come. Hours later, two members of a bomb disposal unit were killed while defusing an explosive device found under a bridge in the western city of Quetta, officials said. It was not immediately clear if that bomb was related to the Lahore attack. The bombings underlined the country’s continued challenge in fighting militancy. Jamaat-ul-Ahrar has claimed responsibility for several deadly attacks across Pakistan. The spate of attacks had decreased since 2014, when the military launched an offensive in the North Waziristan tribal region, the main redoubt of local and foreign terrorists. However, the militants continue to pose a potent threat. Advertisement In Lahore, the political home of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, at least 400 pharmacists had gathered in front of the Punjab Province assembly building to protest a new provincial regulatory law, causing extensive traffic congestion that lasted for hours. In the evening, as police officers negotiated with the protesters, a suicide bomber on foot detonated his explosives, officials said. Local officials said they had urged the protesters to move away from the assembly building because earlier in the month, the federal government had warned Pakistanis of a possible terrorist attack. “The threat alert had warned that government buildings, schools and hospitals may be targeted,” said Sumair Ahmed, the deputy city commissioner. The suicide bomber was around 20 years old and used 13 to 18 pounds of explosives, said the provincial law minister, Rana Sanaullah. Muhammad Iqbal, a senior police officer who is part of the provincial counterterrorism department, said police officers were the target of the suicide bombing. “The counterterrorism department forensic team is investigating, and we will find out more about the attack,” Officer Iqbal said. Many local reporters and television camera crews were at the scene covering the protest. “I was getting ready for our reporter’s live feed for the 6 o’clock bulletin when I heard a large blast,” said Mehboob Malik, a cameraman for Dawn News Television. “I was about 70 feet away when the explosion shook everything. Next, I saw people carrying the injured.” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy By nightfall, the scene of the attack was littered with debris, and bloodstains were spread over the asphalt. A state of emergency was declared in major hospitals in Lahore, the provincial capital. After the attack, Suleman Ali, 21, was standing in a corridor of Mayo Hospital, along with several other relatives of victims. “My uncle has shrapnel injuries in one leg and will undergo surgery,” Mr. Ali said. His cousin had minor injuries. In another unrelated development, the Pakistani military said three of its soldiers were killed by Indian fire in Bhimber on the Line of Control, the de facto border between the two countries in the disputed Kashmir region. A Pakistani military spokesman called the Indian fire “unprovoked.” Also, a justice of the Islamabad High Court on Monday banned Valentine’s Day celebrations across the country in response to a petition that called them un-Islamic. Justice Shaukat Aziz Siddiqui ordered a ban on holiday events and directed an electronic media regulating authority to ensure that television channels did not air advertisements celebrating a day associated with love and romance. The court order was met with shock and dismay over Twitter, with many people criticizing the justice. Daniyal Hassan reported from Lahore, and Salman Masood from Islamabad, Pakistan. Sameen Khan contributed reporting from Lahore. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

LAHORE, Pakistan — At least 13 people were killed, including six police officers, by a suicide bomber on Monday during a protest by hundreds of pharmacists in downtown Lahore, in eastern Pakistan, officials said. The attack wounded 108 people, 13 of them critically.

A breakaway faction of the Pakistani Taliban, Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, claimed responsibility for the attack and warned the government of more strikes to come.

Hours later, two members of a bomb disposal unit were killed while defusing an explosive device found under a bridge in the western city of Quetta, officials said. It was not immediately clear if that bomb was related to the Lahore attack.

The bombings underlined the country’s continued challenge in fighting militancy. Jamaat-ul-Ahrar has claimed responsibility for several deadly attacks across Pakistan. The spate of attacks had decreased since 2014, when the military launched an offensive in the North Waziristan tribal region, the main redoubt of local and foreign terrorists. However, the militants continue to pose a potent threat.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Lahore, the political home of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, at least 400 pharmacists had gathered in front of the Punjab Province assembly building to protest a new provincial regulatory law, causing extensive traffic congestion that lasted for hours. In the evening, as police officers negotiated with the protesters, a suicide bomber on foot detonated his explosives, officials said.

Local officials said they had urged the protesters to move away from the assembly building because earlier in the month, the federal government had warned Pakistanis of a possible terrorist attack. “The threat alert had warned that government buildings, schools and hospitals may be targeted,” said Sumair Ahmed, the deputy city commissioner.

Photo

The suicide bomber was around 20 years old and used 13 to 18 pounds of explosives, said the provincial law minister, Rana Sanaullah.

Muhammad Iqbal, a senior police officer who is part of the provincial counterterrorism department, said police officers were the target of the suicide bombing. “The counterterrorism department forensic team is investigating, and we will find out more about the attack,” Officer Iqbal said.

Many local reporters and television camera crews were at the scene covering the protest. “I was getting ready for our reporter’s live feed for the 6 o’clock bulletin when I heard a large blast,” said Mehboob Malik, a cameraman for Dawn News Television. “I was about 70 feet away when the explosion shook everything. Next, I saw people carrying the injured.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

By nightfall, the scene of the attack was littered with debris, and bloodstains were spread over the asphalt.

A state of emergency was declared in major hospitals in Lahore, the provincial capital.

After the attack, Suleman Ali, 21, was standing in a corridor of Mayo Hospital, along with several other relatives of victims. “My uncle has shrapnel injuries in one leg and will undergo surgery,” Mr. Ali said. His cousin had minor injuries.

In another unrelated development, the Pakistani military said three of its soldiers were killed by Indian fire in Bhimber on the Line of Control, the de facto border between the two countries in the disputed Kashmir region. A Pakistani military spokesman called the Indian fire “unprovoked.”

Also, a justice of the Islamabad High Court on Monday banned Valentine’s Day celebrations across the country in response to a petition that called them un-Islamic. Justice Shaukat Aziz Siddiqui ordered a ban on holiday events and directed an electronic media regulating authority to ensure that television channels did not air advertisements celebrating a day associated with love and romance. The court order was met with shock and dismay over Twitter, with many people criticizing the justice.