Kanye West Reportedly Suffering From Memory Loss After 2016 Hospitalization
Kanye West Reportedly Suffering From Memory Loss After 2016 Hospitalization
It sounds like Kanye West is still recovering from health issues that landed him in the hospital last year . After arriving at the 59th annual Grammy Awards , the rapper’s good friend and longtime collaborator Malik Yusef provided an update about West’s condition, claiming the father of two was still suffering from memory loss following his week-long hospitalization last November. “I’ve been to his house, sat down with him for about six, seven hours, just walking through his health and recovery,” Yusef told . “His memory is coming back, which is super good. [He’s] just healing, spending time with his family. Saint is getting big and is walking, playing with toys, so that invigorates [Kanye]." West was committed to the UCLA Medical Center last year after reportedly experiencing "temporary psychosis" caused by dehydration and sleep deprivation. He checked out of the facility about a week later, under the care of his wife, Kim Kardashian, and his physician, Dr. Michael Farzam. West was surrounded by major controversy and criticism in the days leading up to his hospitalization. Not only did he criticize his good friends Jay Z and Beyoncé , he also expressed his support for then-President-elect Donald Trump . The rants were made during multiple stops of his Saint Pablo Tour, which West cut short following his hospitalization . Yusef’s comments are reassuring to many of West’s fans. Though the rapper will show his Yeezy Season 5 collection at New York Fashion Week this Wednesday, he’s reportedly taking things easy for now. Yusef revealed West is not working at the moment, as he’s just “going through processes.”

It sounds like Kanye West is still recovering from health issues that landed him in the hospital last year.

After arriving at the 59th annual Grammy Awards, the rapper’s good friend and longtime collaborator Malik Yusef provided an update about West’s condition, claiming the father of two was still suffering from memory loss following his week-long hospitalization last November.

“I’ve been to his house, sat down with him for about six, seven hours, just walking through his health and recovery,” Yusef told Popsugar. “His memory is coming back, which is super good. [He’s] just healing, spending time with his family. Saint is getting big and is walking, playing with toys, so that invigorates [Kanye]."

West was committed to the UCLA Medical Center last year after reportedly experiencing "temporary psychosis" caused by dehydration and sleep deprivation. He checked out of the facility about a week later, under the care of his wife, Kim Kardashian, and his physician, Dr. Michael Farzam.

West was surrounded by major controversy and criticism in the days leading up to his hospitalization. Not only did he criticize his good friends Jay Z and Beyoncé, he also expressed his support for then-President-elect Donald Trump. The rants were made during multiple stops of his Saint Pablo Tour, which West cut short following his hospitalization.

Yusef’s comments are reassuring to many of West’s fans. Though the rapper will show his Yeezy Season 5 collection at New York Fashion Week this Wednesday, he’s reportedly taking things easy for now. Yusef revealed West is not working at the moment, as he’s just “going through processes.”