Donald Trump's Tweets Reimagined as an Early '00s Emo Song
Donald Trump's Tweets Reimagined as an Early '00s Emo Song
The 10 Best & Worst Moments at the 2017 Grammys Bruno Mars' Grammy Performance Makeup is More Than an Homage -- It's a Movement Grammy Awards 2017: Which Music Biz Exec Got the Most Screen Time? 2017 Grammys Photos: Red Carpet, Backstage and More! Donald Trump's Tweets Reimagined as an Early '00s Emo Song  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The track, by Super Delux, is a dead-on impression of emo standards from a decade ago. There is just so much angst and pain in those tweets -- at least, there clearly is now.Â A group by the name ofÂ Super Delux saw more than just the leader of the free world whining over Twitter these past few weeks, they saw a song. An early '00s emo song, to be exact, and it works so well. The group used only tweets posted after Trump was sworn in as the 45thÂ president of the United States as song lyrics.  Thanks to the tone of most of Donald Trump's tweets, the strained vocals laid over the instrumentals makes for an internet hit. The song, posted over the weekend, already has more than 121,000 views on YouTube and has been re-tweeted more than 25,000 times on Twitter. Trump has been aÂ prolific Twitter user for years, long before he ran for office, usually posting anti-Obama messages or talking himself up concerning either his wealth or former reality show.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The track, by Super Delux, is a dead-on impression of emo standards from a decade ago.

There is just so much angst and pain in those tweets -- at least, there clearly is now.Â

A group by the name ofÂ Super Delux saw more than just the leader of the free world whining over Twitter these past few weeks, they saw a song. An early '00s emo song, to be exact, and it works so well. The group used only tweets posted after Trump was sworn in as the 45thÂ president of the United States as song lyrics.

Thanks to the tone of most of Donald Trump's tweets, the strained vocals laid over the instrumentals makes for an internet hit. The song, posted over the weekend, already has more than 121,000 views on YouTube and has been re-tweeted more than 25,000 times on Twitter.

Trump has been aÂ prolific Twitter user for years, long before he ran for office, usually posting anti-Obama messages or talking himself up concerning either his wealth or former reality show.

This article was originally published by The Hollywood Reporter.