Apple teases a new show that's basically 'Shark Tank' for apps plus celebrities
Apple teases a new show that's basically 'Shark Tank' for apps plus celebrities
Apple is getting ready for its Hollywood close-up. On Monday, just hours after the tech giant dropped a trailer for its show , Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue and executive producer Ben Silverman unveiled a trailer for Apple's other new series: "This is a show unlike anything we've seen out there," Cue said at annual media conference. " is in the same vein. We get a lot of things [sent to our desk], but we aren't out trying to buy a bunch of shows. We are trying to do things that are creative, that we think we can move culture and that Apple is adding value to." Both shows will debut on Apple Music in spring. SEE ALSO: The first trailer for 'Carpool Karaoke: The Series' is here Although wholly unique, according to Cue, seems similar to , but for the app world. Will.i.am., Gwyneth Paltrow, Jessica Alba and Vaynermedia's Gary Baynerchuk serve as advisors who listen to pitches from developers. Developers have only 60 seconds on an "escalator" (like an elevator pitch...but on an escalator) to get one of the advisors interested in their idea. Advisors then swipe right or left to pick what they are interested in. "Ebay for the Snapchat generation," one contestant in the trailer says during his pitch. "Developers are the rockstars of right now," adds Will.i.am. If selected, the contestants then work with an advisor to build their business. #Apple just showed the first preview of #PlanetOfTheApps on @Recode  #codemedia and it looks promising. — Prashanth Nimmagadda (@itsmeprashi) February 14, 2017 There will be components that go beyond the linear TV show. Silverman said an additional app will offer viewers more behind-the-scenes content from the show. Apple's push into original TV programming underscores its efforts to rival other streaming services. Apple Music has been behind releases such as Taylor Swift’s  , a docu-series with , and exclusive video interviews with superstars such as Adele. producer Ben Winston also dropped by the Code Conference, but doubled down for the most part on his remarks from the show's Television Critics Association panel . "I'm excited," Cue said of Apple's first two shows. "I think these first two shows ... wouldn't be as good if we weren’t involved. Now I start thinking 'it makes sense for us to do this.'" He also hinted there could be more shows on the horizon, but didn't indicate when or who else the company is interested partnering with. "[We want to work on] a lot more content, and a lot more unique things that haven't been seen before," Cue added. "But how much and how fast? That remains to be seen." BONUS: This robot is all legs and can deliver your groceries

Apple is getting ready for its Hollywood close-up.

On Monday, just hours after the tech giant dropped a trailer for its show Carpool Series, Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue and executive producer Ben Silverman unveiled a trailer for Apple's other new series: Planet of the Apps.

"This is a show unlike anything we've seen out there," Cue said at Re-Code's annual media conference. "Carpool Karaoke is in the same vein. We get a lot of things [sent to our desk], but we aren't out trying to buy a bunch of shows. We are trying to do things that are creative, that we think we can move culture and that Apple is adding value to."

Both shows will debut on Apple Music in spring.

Although wholly unique, according to Cue, Planet of the Apps seems similar to Shark Tank, but for the app world. Will.i.am., Gwyneth Paltrow, Jessica Alba and Vaynermedia's Gary Baynerchuk serve as advisors who listen to pitches from developers.

Developers have only 60 seconds on an "escalator" (like an elevator pitch...but on an escalator) to get one of the advisors interested in their idea. Advisors then swipe right or left to pick what they are interested in.

"Ebay for the Snapchat generation," one contestant in the trailer says during his pitch.

"Developers are the rockstars of right now," adds Will.i.am.

If selected, the contestants then work with an advisor to build their business.

There will be components that go beyond the linear TV show. Silverman said an additional app will offer viewers more behind-the-scenes content from the show.

Apple's push into original TV programming underscores its efforts to rival other streaming services.

Apple Music has been behind releases such as Taylor Swift’s 1989 World Tour, a docu-series with Vice, and exclusive video interviews with superstars such as Adele.

Carpool Karaoke producer Ben Winston also dropped by the Code Conference, but doubled down for the most part on his remarks from the show's Television Critics Association panel.

"I'm excited," Cue said of Apple's first two shows. "I think these first two shows ... wouldn't be as good if we weren’t involved. Now I start thinking 'it makes sense for us to do this.'"

He also hinted there could be more shows on the horizon, but didn't indicate when or who else the company is interested partnering with.

"[We want to work on] a lot more content, and a lot more unique things that haven't been seen before," Cue added. "But how much and how fast? That remains to be seen."