A Frightened Dog Who Would Tremble At Everything Finally Calmed Down After Meeting This Kid
A Frightened Dog Who Would Tremble At Everything Finally Calmed Down After Meeting This Kid
A Frightened Dog Who Would Tremble At Everything Finally Calmed Down After Meeting This Kid For the longest time, humans around her had no idea as to why she was so flaky and cranky all the time but suddenly things changed as she met her human brother. This Italian greyhound was dropped off an animal shelter and was just going about her life. She was then adopted but was dropped off the very next day because of her behaviour, until Sarah Mavro came along. (Also read: This Looks Like Just Another Cute Dog And Man Video. But The End Will Blow You Away !) Sarah's acute attention and love saved her. It took the doggie 3 years to bark for the first time – in her case, a sure sign of trust and comfort 1. This is Weezy. 2. The frightened dog who would fret at everything, even toys. 3. But Sarah's love changed her life. 4. And she became happier than ever. 5. Isn't he cute? 6.  But things changed when baby Evan came along!

Guys, let me introduce you to Weezy -the frightened dog.

For the longest time, humans around her had no idea as to why she was so flaky and cranky all the time but suddenly things changed as she met her human brother.

This Italian greyhound was dropped off an animal shelter and was just going about her life. She was then adopted but was dropped off the very next day because of her behaviour, until Sarah Mavro came along.

(Also read: This Looks Like Just Another Cute Dog And Man Video. But The End Will Blow You Away!)

Sarah's acute attention and love saved her. It took the doggie 3 years to bark for the first time – in her case, a sure sign of trust and comfort

1. This is Weezy.

instagram

2. The frightened dog who would fret at everything, even toys.

3. But Sarah's love changed her life.

4. And she became happier than ever.

5. Isn't he cute?

6. But things changed when baby Evan came along!

Don't Miss 7.3 K SHARES 7.7 K SHARES 81.7 K SHARES 52.9 K SHARES 65 K SHARES

7. His friendship taught the dog to live her life to the fullest.

8. And he was absolutely at ease when around him.

The cute dog and the baby are inseparable now!

(Also read: Once Rescued From The Streets, This Cute Dog Is Now Slaying Instragram With 108K Followers)