Camila Cabello Looks Ahead to Post-Fifth Harmony Solo Career: 'My Fans Are Really Going to Know Me'
Camila Cabello Looks Ahead to Post-Fifth Harmony Solo Career: 'My Fans Are Really Going to Know Me'
The Inside Story of Adele's George Michael Grammy Tribute The 10 Best & Worst Moments at the 2017 Grammys John Legend & Cynthia Erivo Release Studio Version of 'God Only Knows' Grammy Duet 2017 Grammys Photos: Red Carpet, Backstage and More! Camila Cabello Looks Ahead to Post-Fifth Harmony Solo Career: 'My Fans Are Really Going to Know Me'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Camila Cabello covers the new issue of magazine with an interview teasing what fans can expect for her post- Fifth Harmony Â career.Â "Fifth Harmony wasn't the maximum expression of me individually," Cabello said in the feature. "My fans are really going to know me from the music I'm writing. My goal is to be brave and open up my soul." Still, it sounds like Cabello harbors no ill will towards her former bandmates.Â  "I'll continue to wish them all the best, and I'm happy they are continuing their journey as Fifth Harmony," she said. "I'm also looking forward to hearing new music from the group and their solo endeavors." Cabello also said she's still tight with Taylor Swift and has dreams of collaborating with Ed Sheeran -- something that seems feasible, given Swift and Sheeran's close relationship.Â "Taylor is always the person that I go to for boy advice," Cabello said. "The reason we became friends was purely because we think the same way about a lot of things: We're both really sensitive and emotional when it comes to love. We love love, and we love writing songs about love."  Cabello continued of Sheeran: "He's incredible at putting love, emotion, and feeling into words. I would love to see him go into a room and watch how he makes his magic. He always talks about how he loves making songs from the heart, and that's something that I've pushed myself to do in my songwriting process, too."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Camila Cabello arrives at Universal Music Group's 2016 Grammy After Party at The Theatre At The Ace Hotel on Feb. 15, 2016 in Los Angeles.

Camila Cabello covers the new issue of Seventeen magazine with an interview teasing what fans can expect for her post-Fifth HarmonyÂ career.Â

"Fifth Harmony wasn't the maximum expression of me individually," Cabello said in the feature. "My fans are really going to know me from the music I'm writing. My goal is to be brave and open up my soul."

Still, it sounds like Cabello harbors no ill will towards her former bandmates.Â

"I'll continue to wish them all the best, and I'm happy they are continuing their journey as Fifth Harmony," she said. "I'm also looking forward to hearing new music from the group and their solo endeavors."

Cabello also said she's still tight with Taylor Swift and has dreams of collaborating with Ed Sheeran -- something that seems feasible, given Swift and Sheeran's close relationship.Â

"Taylor is always the person that I go to for boy advice," Cabello said. "The reason we became friends was purely because we think the same way about a lot of things: We're both really sensitive and emotional when it comes to love. We love love, and we love writing songs about love."

Cabello continued of Sheeran: "He's incredible at putting love, emotion, and feeling into words. I would love to see him go into a room and watch how he makes his magic. He always talks about how he loves making songs from the heart, and that's something that I've pushed myself to do in my songwriting process, too."