Beyonce-Adele's Powerful Grammys' Speeches, Taimur Ali Khan's New Pic & More From Ent!
Beyonce-Adele's Powerful Grammys' Speeches, Taimur Ali Khan's New Pic & More From Ent!
Beyonce-Adele's Powerful Grammys' Speeches, Taimur Ali Khan's New Pic & More From Ent! 1. On His Daughter Akira's Birthday, Daddy Farhan Akhtar Posts An Inspiring Message On the occasion of Akira’s birthday, daddy Farhan posted a cute picture of her with himself on Twitter. With the picture, he even posted a short yet moving message. 2. Adele Gets Emotional After Winning Best Album Award, Refuses To Accept It Because Of Beyonce She got so emotional that right after thanking everyone and apologizing for her performance mishap, she refused to accept the award! Yes, you read that right. This is what she said, “But I can't possibly accept this award, and I'm very humbled and very grateful and gracious but my life is Beyonce, and the album to me, the "Lemonade" album, Beyonce, was so monumental, and so well thought out. And so beautiful and soul bearing and we all got to see another side of you that you don't always let us see, and we appreciate that. And all us artists adore you. You are our light. And the way that you make me and my friends feel, the way you make my black friends feel is empowering, and you make them stand up for themselves. And I love you. I always have. And I always will. I appreciate it.” 3. Beyonce Gives A Powerful Speech At Grammys 2017, Says Her Goal Is To 'Give Voice To Our Pain' Not only did she give a hair-raising performance, she even came prepared with a powerful speech about something that is close to her heart - to empower "every child of every race."  This is what she said, “It’s important to me to show images to my children that reflect their beauty, so they can grow up in a world where they look in the mirror, first through their own families — as well as the news, the Super Bowl, the Olympics, the White House and the Grammys — and see themselves, and have no doubt that they’re beautiful, intelligent and capable. This is something I want for every child of every race. And I feel it’s vital that we learn from the past and recognize our tendencies to repeat our mistakes. Thank you again for honoring “Lemonade.”” 4. Watch: Kangana Ranaut Roasts KJo On His Own Couch & Gets Away With It Because She's The 'Queen' In the teaser, Ranaut can be seen describing what her biopic would look like if it ever got made. “In my biopic, if ever it’s made, you will play that stereotypical Bollywood biggie, who is ...like you know..very snooty...and completely intolerant to outsiders and flag-bearer of nepotism...the movie mafia...,” she said. Ahem! If you still can’t read between the lines, she was describing Karan Johar in her statement. It obviously, stumped both Karan and Saif as the two men were left completely speechless! 5. This Latest Picture Of Kareena-Saif's Bundle Of Joy Taimur Ali Khan Has Broken The Internet!

1. On His Daughter Akira's Birthday, Daddy Farhan Akhtar Posts An Inspiring Message

On the occasion of Akira’s birthday, daddy Farhan posted a cute picture of her with himself on Twitter. With the picture, he even posted a short yet moving message.

2. Adele Gets Emotional After Winning Best Album Award, Refuses To Accept It Because Of Beyonce

Reuters

She got so emotional that right after thanking everyone and apologizing for her performance mishap, she refused to accept the award! Yes, you read that right. This is what she said, “But I can't possibly accept this award, and I'm very humbled and very grateful and gracious but my life is Beyonce, and the album to me, the "Lemonade" album, Beyonce, was so monumental, and so well thought out. And so beautiful and soul bearing and we all got to see another side of you that you don't always let us see, and we appreciate that. And all us artists adore you. You are our light. And the way that you make me and my friends feel, the way you make my black friends feel is empowering, and you make them stand up for themselves. And I love you. I always have. And I always will. I appreciate it.”

3. Beyonce Gives A Powerful Speech At Grammys 2017, Says Her Goal Is To 'Give Voice To Our Pain'

Reuters

Not only did she give a hair-raising performance, she even came prepared with a powerful speech about something that is close to her heart - to empower "every child of every race." This is what she said,

“It’s important to me to show images to my children that reflect their beauty, so they can grow up in a world where they look in the mirror, first through their own families — as well as the news, the Super Bowl, the Olympics, the White House and the Grammys — and see themselves, and have no doubt that they’re beautiful, intelligent and capable. This is something I want for every child of every race. And I feel it’s vital that we learn from the past and recognize our tendencies to repeat our mistakes. Thank you again for honoring “Lemonade.””

4. Watch: Kangana Ranaut Roasts KJo On His Own Couch & Gets Away With It Because She's The 'Queen'

star world

In the teaser, Ranaut can be seen describing what her biopic would look like if it ever got made.

“In my biopic, if ever it’s made, you will play that stereotypical Bollywood biggie, who is ...like you know..very snooty...and completely intolerant to outsiders and flag-bearer of nepotism...the movie mafia...,” she said.

Ahem! If you still can’t read between the lines, she was describing Karan Johar in her statement. It obviously, stumped both Karan and Saif as the two men were left completely speechless!

5. This Latest Picture Of Kareena-Saif's Bundle Of Joy Taimur Ali Khan Has Broken The Internet!

Don't Miss 668 SHARES 1.7 K SHARES 37.8 K SHARES 41.1 K SHARES 65.4 K SHARES

This latest picture of Taimur has taken the internet by storm as people were only discussing about his good looks on Sunday. While people were still speculating that it isn’t real as there is no legit source that released the picture, it was later found out that this image was Saif Ali Khan’s WhatsApp DP!