Victoria rejects call for forced drug, mental health treatment for most vulnerable children



Victoria rejects call for forced drug, mental health treatment for most vulnerable children

Updated

The Victorian Government rejected a report it commissioned which recommended the introduction of compulsory mental health and drug treatment for vulnerable children in the strife-torn child protection and youth justice systems.

Key points: The report says there's a place forced treatment in Victoria

It identified 30 children in the system who could benefit from the treatment

The Government says the proposed 16 bed model "would not meet ongoing demand"



The report, prepared by consultants KPMG and the Australian Childhood Foundation, stated that "there is a place" for a facility in Victoria where children could be forced to undergo therapeutic treatment.

It also said there would "a significant benefit" to the community from a corresponding reduction in child abuse and neglect.

Among the potential benefits is a reduction in crime, as children who undergo treatment would be less likely to commit future offences.

Children who are taken into state care go on to enter the youth justice system in disproportionately large numbers.

Despite this, the Victorian Government has categorically dismissed the proposal. This week Labor announced the construction of a new high-security youth prison near Werribee South, which will include a supermax unit.

Do you know more about this story? Email investigations@abc.net.au

The report acknowledged that there was little solid research on whether compelling people to undergo therapy was effective, but said it needed to be considered.

"Victoria's child protection and out-of-home care systems are operating in an environment of escalating demand," it stated in the report, obtained by the ABC under freedom of information laws.

"Victoria's out-of-home care system houses some of the state's most vulnerable children, and drug abuse and sexual exploitation by people outside the system are rife.

"Many children also suffer from significant mental health problems after years of neglect or abuse."

However, child protection workers, parents, police and others frequently express deep frustration at the fact that the children housed in residential care units cannot be compelled to stay, and frequently abscond, sometimes spending days or weeks at large.

An inquest last year into the death of 16-year-old Maria Liordos, who was housed at a unit in the western suburbs but died of a drug overdose at the house of an adult male, heard that Maria came and went from the unit as she pleased, sometimes sleeping in squats or on the street.

Maria was traumatised by serious sexual abuse at the hands of a male relative. She frequently missed appointments with her psychologist.

A magistrate in the Children's Court, Jennifer Bowles, used a Churchill Fellowship to gather evidence overseas that compulsory treatment works, and presented her findings to the Government, but was told her proposal would not be considered.

Melbourne's outer suburbs could be home to treatment facility

The recent KPMG and Australian Childhood Foundation report identified 30 children who were already regularly placed in the short-term secure welfare unit, and could benefit from compulsory treatment.

It puts forward the case for a purpose-built unit in Melbourne's outer suburbs, where the children would receive comprehensive therapeutic care.

"The environment should offer safety, therapy and security and should be home-like, welcoming, child-friendly inclusive and soothing," the report said.

The report recommended the children be placed in the unit by order of the Children's Court, and that they be kept there for up to two years, but for as little as four months.

The highest estimated capital investment is $23.5 million — compared to more than $250 million for a new prison — and annual running costs for the recommended model are estimated to be $8.3 million.

A State Government spokeswoman said the proposed model was similar to the existing secure welfare option — despite the fact the report makes it clear that secure welfare is a short-term option, and limited in its capacity "to promote long-term change and intervention".

The spokeswoman also said the 16 beds proposed under the model would be filled quickly "and would not meet ongoing demand".

The State Government has pledged more than $160 million to reform the out-of-home care system and move children out of residential care units, into the care of foster and kinship carers.

Topics: youth, drug-offences, crime, law-crime-and-justice, drug-use, health, drugs-and-substance-abuse, community-and-society, state-parliament, parliament, government-and-politics, vic, melbourne-3000

First posted