University is still a white middle-class affair – it’s not just Cambridge | Franklyn Addo

n 2011 I declined an offer from Cambridge University . Almost six years later I’m still asked whether I feel I made the correct choice. With the recent news that black students still struggle to get university places , and that a Cambridge student taunted a homeless man by burning a £20 note , how could my answer be anything but a definitive “yes”. I chose instead to study at the London School of Economics. But despite its relatively high acceptance of students who are black and from areas under-represented in higher education , I still felt like part of a minority there. This alienation would have been intensified at an institution like Cambridge, where black students are scarcer, theatrical formal dinners are almost compulsorily observed, and some students are so comfortably disconnected from bleak social realities that their minds could even conceive of torching cash to humiliate someone sleeping on the street. The reality is that many students from diverse ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds experience education differently. Their difference is tangibly felt, and as a result some feel required to deliver “performances” to compensate when interviewing for or studying at elite universities. Unfortunately, it appears we have to choose between tiresomely contorting our style of dress, manner of speech and even opinions lest we are rendered hypervisible, and perceived as unintelligent and devoid of “culture”. Such differential experiences are why black and working-class students are less likely to apply to highly selective universities. It is not because of some self-deprecating “false belief that it is impossible for them to receive offers”, as I pompously claimed in the article in which I defended my decision to decline my Cambridge offer . (How hard it now is to see your views as a teenager preserved in perpetuity on the internet.) It is rather a logical, mature decision made to safeguard wellbeing as well as heighten their chances of academic success. Indeed, the differential experiences of education that students may endure due to their race or class can be not only mentally strenuous, but also detrimental to educational outcomes. Throughout my undergraduate degree, I felt constantly frustrated by the general lack of critical engagement with racial issues. I remember having to reiterate basic tenets such as the fact that black men are not more likely to commit crimes. I remember self-consciously reflecting on how my ethnicity, the tracksuit I wore, and the fact I spoke with a distinctive east London accent might have contributed to my classmates misreading my passion in academic debate as aggression. I remember becoming disillusioned when race, ethnicity and postcolonial studies – the masters course I would have loved to study – was cancelled. Apart from the fact that black and working-class students are less likely to apply to highly selective universities in the first instance, they’re also less likely to be accepted when they do. According to the Higher Education Statistics Agency , black students accounted for just 2.7% of Russell Group university students in 2010-11 , the academic year before I went to university. And the 27 black students accepted by Oxford in 2014 accounted for just 1% of that year’s intake . Such statistics have made it clear to me that elite universities are not “meritocratic and non-discriminatory”, as I once naively asserted, and that equality of outcomes will take much more than underprivileged students reassessing their thinking and imagining that “anything is possible with hard work”. We must challenge the unconscious racial and socioeconomic bias in admissions processes, which David Lammy, the Labour MP and former higher education minister, recently cited as an explanation for the low admission of black and working-class students. The specific cultural positioning of students from diverse backgrounds causes interviewers to perceive them not to be as “widely read”, “articulate” or “well-presented” as their counterparts; their intelligence is overlooked and eclipsed by other trivial factors such as dress or accent. If this is ever to change, people from all segments of society must be more equally represented at these institutions. If we are not to resign ourselves to a higher education system that is almost separatist in nature – with certain types of people being offered the best opportunities and others relegated to subordinate institutions – our academic traditions as well as our very conception of intelligence must change. Equality in education is a crucial prerequisite to equality in wider society. Widening participation cannot mean teaching young people how to behave “middle class”. If we continue to link intelligence to assumptions about the way people dress or speak, or the cultural products they apply their knowledge to, we will continue to discourage some of the brightest young people from applying to the best universities. White middle-class values should no longer be the marker against which intelligence and merit is judged. Topics  Higher education   Race issues   Cambridge   London School of Economics and Political Science   Equality

In 2011 I declined an offer from Cambridge University. Almost six years later I’m still asked whether I feel I made the correct choice. With the recent news that black students still struggle to get university places, and that a Cambridge student taunted a homeless man by burning a £20 note, how could my answer be anything but a definitive “yes”.

The real reason I rejected Cambridge | Franklyn Addo Read more

I chose instead to study at the London School of Economics. But despite its relatively high acceptance of students who are black and from areas under-represented in higher education, I still felt like part of a minority there. This alienation would have been intensified at an institution like Cambridge, where black students are scarcer, theatrical formal dinners are almost compulsorily observed, and some students are so comfortably disconnected from bleak social realities that their minds could even conceive of torching cash to humiliate someone sleeping on the street.

The reality is that many students from diverse ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds experience education differently. Their difference is tangibly felt, and as a result some feel required to deliver “performances” to compensate when interviewing for or studying at elite universities. Unfortunately, it appears we have to choose between tiresomely contorting our style of dress, manner of speech and even opinions lest we are rendered hypervisible, and perceived as unintelligent and devoid of “culture”.

Such differential experiences are why black and working-class students are less likely to apply to highly selective universities. It is not because of some self-deprecating “false belief that it is impossible for them to receive offers”, as I pompously claimed in the article in which I defended my decision to decline my Cambridge offer. (How hard it now is to see your views as a teenager preserved in perpetuity on the internet.) It is rather a logical, mature decision made to safeguard wellbeing as well as heighten their chances of academic success. Indeed, the differential experiences of education that students may endure due to their race or class can be not only mentally strenuous, but also detrimental to educational outcomes.

Throughout my undergraduate degree, I felt constantly frustrated by the general lack of critical engagement with racial issues. I remember having to reiterate basic tenets such as the fact that black men are not more likely to commit crimes. I remember self-consciously reflecting on how my ethnicity, the tracksuit I wore, and the fact I spoke with a distinctive east London accent might have contributed to my classmates misreading my passion in academic debate as aggression. I remember becoming disillusioned when race, ethnicity and postcolonial studies – the masters course I would have loved to study – was cancelled.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The MP David Lammy, pictured here taking part in a seminar on gang culture, has challenged the racial and socioeconomic bias in university admissions processes. Photograph: Stuart Freedman/Corbis via Getty Images

Apart from the fact that black and working-class students are less likely to apply to highly selective universities in the first instance, they’re also less likely to be accepted when they do. According to the Higher Education Statistics Agency, black students accounted for just 2.7% of Russell Group university students in 2010-11, the academic year before I went to university. And the 27 black students accepted by Oxford in 2014 accounted for just 1% of that year’s intake. Such statistics have made it clear to me that elite universities are not “meritocratic and non-discriminatory”, as I once naively asserted, and that equality of outcomes will take much more than underprivileged students reassessing their thinking and imagining that “anything is possible with hard work”.

We must challenge the unconscious racial and socioeconomic bias in admissions processes, which David Lammy, the Labour MP and former higher education minister, recently cited as an explanation for the low admission of black and working-class students. The specific cultural positioning of students from diverse backgrounds causes interviewers to perceive them not to be as “widely read”, “articulate” or “well-presented” as their counterparts; their intelligence is overlooked and eclipsed by other trivial factors such as dress or accent.

Widening participation cannot mean teaching young people how to behave 'middle class'

If this is ever to change, people from all segments of society must be more equally represented at these institutions. If we are not to resign ourselves to a higher education system that is almost separatist in nature – with certain types of people being offered the best opportunities and others relegated to subordinate institutions – our academic traditions as well as our very conception of intelligence must change.

Equality in education is a crucial prerequisite to equality in wider society. Widening participation cannot mean teaching young people how to behave “middle class”. If we continue to link intelligence to assumptions about the way people dress or speak, or the cultural products they apply their knowledge to, we will continue to discourage some of the brightest young people from applying to the best universities.

White middle-class values should no longer be the marker against which intelligence and merit is judged.