First-born children really are the cleverest - and it’s all thanks to their parents
First-born children really are the cleverest - and it’s all thanks to their parents
First-born children are usually the cleverest, with measurable differences in IQ as early as age one – and it’s thanks to their parents. The reason first born children can out-think their siblings is because they get more mental stimulation from their parents. Researchers at Edinburgh University found that all children received similar levels of emotional support from their parents – but first borns had more support with tasks which developed their thinking skills. Researchers say the findings could help to explain the so-called birth order effect when children born earlier in a family enjoy better wages and more education in later life. Researchers observed 5,000 children from birth to age 14, testing them every two years with assessments including reading recognition. The researchers used statistical analysis and observation to assess the behaviour of the parents. Dr Ana Nuevo-Chiquero says, ‘Researchers found that parents changed their behaviour as subsequent children were born. They offered less mental stimulation to younger siblings also took part in fewer activities such as such as reading with the child, crafts and playing musical instruments. ‘Mothers also took higher risks during the pregnancy of latter-born children, such as increased smoking. ‘Our results suggests that broad shifts in parental behaviour are a plausible explanation for the observed birth order differences in education and labour market outcomes.

First-born children are usually the cleverest, with measurable differences in IQ as early as age one – and it’s thanks to their parents.

The reason first born children can out-think their siblings is because they get more mental stimulation from their parents.

Researchers at Edinburgh University found that all children received similar levels of emotional support from their parents – but first borns had more support with tasks which developed their thinking skills.

Researchers say the findings could help to explain the so-called birth order effect when children born earlier in a family enjoy better wages and more education in later life.

Researchers observed 5,000 children from birth to age 14, testing them every two years with assessments including reading recognition.

Why do we celebrate Valentine’s Day?

Forget him: These are the Valentine’s Day gifts you should treat yourself (or your best mate) to

The researchers used statistical analysis and observation to assess the behaviour of the parents.

Dr Ana Nuevo-Chiquero says, ‘Researchers found that parents changed their behaviour as subsequent children were born. They offered less mental stimulation to younger siblings also took part in fewer activities such as such as reading with the child, crafts and playing musical instruments.

‘Mothers also took higher risks during the pregnancy of latter-born children, such as increased smoking.

‘Our results suggests that broad shifts in parental behaviour are a plausible explanation for the observed birth order differences in education and labour market outcomes.

What do you think? Tweet us at @YahooStyleUK.