Republicans Tweet, Then Delete, a Fake Lincoln Quote
Republicans Tweet, Then Delete, a Fake Lincoln Quote
It seemed harmless enough. In a tweet celebrating the Feb. 12 birthday of Abraham Lincoln , the Republican National Committee attributed a short quote to the 16th U.S. president. It was an uncontroversial maxim, if ever there was one. “And in the end, it’s not the years in your life that count,” it said. “It’s the life in your years.” There is no documentation of Lincoln uttering these words, according to James Cornelius, curator of the Lincoln Collection at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum. The committee’s tweet was taken down on Monday morning. But in a political atmosphere buzzing with acrimonious debates over fake news and alternative facts , the error caused a ruckus. Blowback was swift on social media and in news reports. . @GOP Dudes, when I was acting research director at RNC, we checked our facts. The Party of Lincoln tweets fake Lincoln quote (it's not hard to find good ones!), & it's an utterly banal quote to boot. All's well w/ GOP! https://t.co/O3e4bElgve  Even historians were wringing their hands. “People search for relevance, but they look to the wrong sources,” said Harold Holzer, a Lincoln scholar and author who now serves as the Jonathan F. Fanton director at the Roosevelt House Public Policy Institute at Hunter College in Manhattan. Advertisement “Fake Lincoln is just as bad as fake news, because this is American scripture,” he said. “So it’s worth examining and worth applying.” Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy To err, as someone said, is human — especially on social media. Verification often falls by the wayside when quotations are neatly packaged into inspirational memes or shareable image files. Mistaken attributions can be copied and reposted with the click of a button. And mistakes spread like wildfire. The false Lincoln quote was immediately picked up by President Trump, who posted the image to his Instagram account. The R.N.C. did not respond immediately to requests for comment. So who actually made the first comment about years in one’s life versus life in one’s years, if it wasn’t President Lincoln? It’s hard to say for sure. Garson O’Toole, the author of “Hemingway Didn’t Say That: The Truth Behind Familiar Quotations,” wrote on his website Quote Investigator that the quote can probably (though not definitively) be traced to a man named Edward J. Stieglitz. An advertisement for Mr. Stieglitz’s book, “ The Second Forty Years ,” contained the phrase: The important thing to you is not how many years in your life, but how much life in your years! That was back in 1947. Since then, those words have been borrowed by, and attributed to, a variety of sources, including the American politician and former vice president Adlai Stevenson, the actress and singer Mae West, and now, Honest Abe, Mr. O’Toole found. This is far from the first time politicians have misattributed words to the 16th U.S. president. Ronald Reagan did the same during a 1992 convention speech when he described this passage as “so eloquently stated by Abraham Lincoln”: You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong. You cannot help the wage earner by pulling down the wage payer. You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich. You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could and should do for themselves. In fact, those words came from Rev. William John Henry Boetcker , a religious leader in the early 1900s whose conservative, individualist philosophies were in line with Reagan’s worldview. The Lincoln gaffe wasn’t the only error to plague Republican Party circles this weekend. The Hill reported on Sunday that an inauguration print featuring a quote from President Trump, on offer at the Library of Congress website, was taken offline after the site’s visitors pointed out a grammatical error — the text used “to” where it should have used “too.” The Department of Education also came under fire for misspelling the name of W.E.B. Du Bois in tweet on Sunday, just days after the fiercely fought confirmation of Mr. Trump’s pick for education secretary, Betsy DeVos. Education must not simply teach work - it must teach life. – W.E.B. DeBois pic.twitter.com/Re4cWkPSFA  The department quickly corrected its error in a new tweet on Sunday morning — though the incorrect one was still posted — and offered “deepest apologies,” though it erred once again when it originally wrote “deepest apologizes.” Susan C. Beachy contributed research. A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 2017, on Page A15 of the with the headline: An Inspiring Lincoln Quote, Except Lincoln Never Said It.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.    MEDIATOR

Photo

It seemed harmless enough.

In a tweet celebrating the Feb. 12 birthday of Abraham Lincoln, the Republican National Committee attributed a short quote to the 16th U.S. president. It was an uncontroversial maxim, if ever there was one.

“And in the end, it’s not the years in your life that count,” it said. “It’s the life in your years.”

There is no documentation of Lincoln uttering these words, according to James Cornelius, curator of the Lincoln Collection at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.

The committee’s tweet was taken down on Monday morning. But in a political atmosphere buzzing with acrimonious debates over fake news and alternative facts, the error caused a ruckus. Blowback was swift on social media and in news reports.

Even historians were wringing their hands.

“People search for relevance, but they look to the wrong sources,” said Harold Holzer, a Lincoln scholar and author who now serves as the Jonathan F. Fanton director at the Roosevelt House Public Policy Institute at Hunter College in Manhattan.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Fake Lincoln is just as bad as fake news, because this is American scripture,” he said. “So it’s worth examining and worth applying.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

To err, as someone said, is human — especially on social media. Verification often falls by the wayside when quotations are neatly packaged into inspirational memes or shareable image files. Mistaken attributions can be copied and reposted with the click of a button.

And mistakes spread like wildfire. The false Lincoln quote was immediately picked up by President Trump, who posted the image to his Instagram account.

The R.N.C. did not respond immediately to requests for comment.

So who actually made the first comment about years in one’s life versus life in one’s years, if it wasn’t President Lincoln? It’s hard to say for sure.

Garson O’Toole, the author of “Hemingway Didn’t Say That: The Truth Behind Familiar Quotations,” wrote on his website Quote Investigator that the quote can probably (though not definitively) be traced to a man named Edward J. Stieglitz. An advertisement for Mr. Stieglitz’s book, “The Second Forty Years,” contained the phrase:

The important thing to you is not how many years in your life, but how much life in your years!

That was back in 1947. Since then, those words have been borrowed by, and attributed to, a variety of sources, including the American politician and former vice president Adlai Stevenson, the actress and singer Mae West, and now, Honest Abe, Mr. O’Toole found.

This is far from the first time politicians have misattributed words to the 16th U.S. president. Ronald Reagan did the same during a 1992 convention speech when he described this passage as “so eloquently stated by Abraham Lincoln”:

You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong. You cannot help the wage earner by pulling down the wage payer. You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich. You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could and should do for themselves.

In fact, those words came from Rev. William John Henry Boetcker, a religious leader in the early 1900s whose conservative, individualist philosophies were in line with Reagan’s worldview.

The Lincoln gaffe wasn’t the only error to plague Republican Party circles this weekend. The Hill reported on Sunday that an inauguration print featuring a quote from President Trump, on offer at the Library of Congress website, was taken offline after the site’s visitors pointed out a grammatical error — the text used “to” where it should have used “too.”

The Department of Education also came under fire for misspelling the name of W.E.B. Du Bois in tweet on Sunday, just days after the fiercely fought confirmation of Mr. Trump’s pick for education secretary, Betsy DeVos.

The department quickly corrected its error in a new tweet on Sunday morning — though the incorrect one was still posted — and offered “deepest apologies,” though it erred once again when it originally wrote “deepest apologizes.”