Naked pictures are traded 'like football stickers' in playgrounds, Education Secretary told
Naked pictures are traded 'like football stickers' in playgrounds, Education Secretary told
aked pictures are traded “like football stickers” in playgrounds, women's groups have warned, as the Mumsnet editor and the Girl Guides call for sex and relationship education (SRE) to be made compulsory in schools. The chair of the association of police and crime commissioners and a cross-party group of MPs are among those urging the Government to bring forward legislation and stop “burying heads in the sand” about issues such as sexting. In a letter due to be delivered to Prime Minister Theresa May and Education Secretary Justine Greening today, they warn that as well as exchanging “cute messages” with each another on smart phones, children will also be receiving “snap shots of private parts,  links to porn sites and material that most parents would rather not contemplate”. arah Green, co-director of the End Violence Against Women Coalition said and one of the signatories to the letter, said that the Government must “wake up to the reality of a school environment where nude images are traded like football stickers”. She added: “Giving schools too much discretion and giving opt-outs, including for private schools and some faith schools, is unsafe and legally unsound.” Other signatories to the letter include the Girl Guiding Advocate Panel, the editor of Mumsnet and Baroness Lorely Burt. Maria Miller MP, the chair of the women's and equalities select committee and Sarah Champion MP, the shadow secretary of state for women and equalities have also backed the letter. It comes as pressure builds on the Government to overhaul sexual education for children for the first time in 17 years.  Last week five former ministers were among a group of 23 Conservative MPs  to back a change to the law to force secondary schools to make SRE compulsory in the National Curriculum. Image Caption: he change would see teenagers being what consent means in sexual relationships and how to protect themselves from sexting and online exploitation in compulsory classes. Currently only council-controlled secondary schools are advised to teach children about sex in biology classes. There is no such requirement on academies or free schools which make up the majority of secondary schools in England. The changes are proposed in an amendment to the Children and Social Work Bill which was published in the House of Commons last week. Ms Greening has already hinted that the Government wants to take action, but has yet to publish further information. The changes come after The Telegraph led a Better Sex Education campaign which called for teaching – which has not been changed since 2000 - to be modernised to reflect the risks facing children online.

Naked pictures are traded “like football stickers” in playgrounds, women's groups have warned, as the Mumsnet editor and the Girl Guides call for sex and relationship education (SRE) to be made compulsory in schools.

The chair of the association of police and crime commissioners and a cross-party group of MPs are among those urging the Government to bring forward legislation and stop “burying heads in the sand” about issues such as sexting.

In a letter due to be delivered to Prime Minister Theresa May and Education Secretary Justine Greening today, they warn that as well as exchanging “cute messages” with each another on smart phones, children will also be receiving “snap shots of private parts, links to porn sites and material that most parents would rather not contemplate”.