The Minute Sasikala Was Sentenced To Four Years Imprisonment, Twitter Hosted An Epic Roast Party
The Minute Sasikala Was To Sentenced 4 Years Imprisonment, Twitter Hosted An Epic Roast Party!
The Minute Sasikala Was Sentenced To Four Years Imprisonment, Twitter Hosted An Epic Roast Party In a major blow to embattled AIADMK General Secretary Sasikala Natarajan, the Supreme Court has convicted her to four years imprisonment in a two-decade-old disproportionate assets case. (Also read: Sasikala's CM Dreams Shattered, Sentenced To Four Years Imprisonment In Disproportionate Assets Case ) One can only sit and wonder as to how fate changes and that Karma is the only God. Where just a couple of days ago, the woman lauded for being the next CM, is now, most certainly, packing her bags for the new endeavour. Anyway, she's been around, making headlines, with her hate-hate-relationship with the with acting chief minister O. Panneerselvam, but the jail sentence has gotten twitter, roasting her like a popcorn. (Also read: Tamil Nadu Trouble Continues As Panneerselvam Revolts Against Sasikala, Stakes Claim At CM Post ) 1. Camp OPS currently pic.twitter.com/DqIUFFClSQ 2. Has Sasikala complained of Chest Pain yet?? 3. Why don't South Indian politicians ever learn from Delhi on how not to get caught. 4. Paneer winning? Bik gayi hai gourmet. 5. Sasikala convicted. OPS camp right now. pic.twitter.com/khwNWAoxp6 6. So this happened @ sasikala pic.twitter.com/i28HCS1ori 7. #OPSVsSasi  #Valentines  pic.twitter.com/SNIQS6d5hA 8. MLA's who supported Sasikala getting inside AIADMK headquarters pic.twitter.com/xVdH61q2a1

In a major blow to embattled AIADMK General Secretary Sasikala Natarajan, the Supreme Court has convicted her to four years imprisonment in a two-decade-old disproportionate assets case.

(Also read: Sasikala's CM Dreams Shattered, Sentenced To Four Years Imprisonment In Disproportionate Assets Case)

One can only sit and wonder as to how fate changes and that Karma is the only God. Where just a couple of days ago, the woman lauded for being the next CM, is now, most certainly, packing her bags for the new endeavour.

Anyway, she's been around, making headlines, with her hate-hate-relationship with the with acting chief minister O. Panneerselvam, but the jail sentence has gotten twitter, roasting her like a popcorn.

(Also read: Tamil Nadu Trouble Continues As Panneerselvam Revolts Against Sasikala, Stakes Claim At CM Post)

1.

2.

Has Sasikala complained of Chest Pain yet?? — Ekita (@LostByWaves) February 14, 2017

3.

Why don't South Indian politicians ever learn from Delhi on how not to get caught. — Manu Joseph (@manujosephsan) February 14, 2017

4.

Paneer winning? Bik gayi hai gourmet. — Trendulkar (@Trendulkar) February 14, 2017

5.

Sasikala convicted.

OPS camp right now. pic.twitter.com/khwNWAoxp6 — Meghnad (@Memeghnad) February 14, 2017

6.

So this happened @ sasikala pic.twitter.com/i28HCS1ori — placentaur (@4ngery) February 14, 2017

7.

8.

MLA's who supported Sasikala getting inside AIADMK headquarters pic.twitter.com/xVdH61q2a1 — Aakash (@PUNchayati) February 14, 2017

Don't Miss 90.2 K SHARES 23.5 K SHARES 19 K SHARES

9.

Tamil Nadu to Supreme Court right now pic.twitter.com/UO6rB6ZwpB — Local Tea Party (@localteaparty) February 14, 2017

10.

That resort owner is not getting paid now, is he #Sasikala — Sandeep Kadian (@GappistanRadio) February 14, 2017

But everything aside, where do people get the time to come on streets and dance over such petty issues? I mean, have you been looking at those ladies, dancing in sheer delight? Or the the men, who too have taken it to the streets to express how happy they are about the decision.

Calm down, people! Calm down!