Commuters Across Delhi NCR Likely To Get Some Relief As Ola, Uber Driver Strike Called Off Partially
Commuters In Delhi NCR Likely To Get Some Relief As Ola, Uber Strike Called Off Partially
Commuters Across Delhi NCR Likely To Get Some Relief As Ola, Uber Driver Strike Called Off Partially Working professional travelling within Delhi NCR got some respite when  the indefinite strike by drivers working with app-based cab aggregators was called off partially  as five unions agreed to run taxis in Delhi-NCR following the Delhi government's assurance.  The development occurred after a delegation of driver met Satyender Jain, Delhi transport minister who assured the members of the delegation of the the fulfilment of most of their demands. Ever since Friday, thousands of cab drivers associated with cab services like Uber and Ola had gone to strike against low fares and lack from basic amenities from app based taxi aggregators. "The Transport Minister has assured us that their fares from the existing Rs 6 per km will be increased. In the meeting, the minister also assured drivers' unions that app-based cab aggregators including Ola and Uber will not charge 25 per cent commission on every booking,"  Balwant Singh, President of Rajdhani Tourist Drivers' Union was quoted by PTI.

Working professional travelling within Delhi NCR got some respite when the indefinite strike by drivers working with app-based cab aggregators was called off partially as five unions agreed to run taxis in Delhi-NCR following the Delhi government's assurance.

PTI

However, the main body, Sarvodaya Driver Association of Delhi (SDAD) which claims to represent 1.5 lakh drivers in Delhi NCR, said that it hasn’t withdrawn the strike and will continue not to operate tomorrow.

Though since five out of six unions have withdrawn the strike called by SDAD, commuters whose life had come to a halt ever since the strike was announced are likely t get some respite.The development occurred after a delegation of driver met Satyender Jain, Delhi transport minister who assured the members of the delegation of the the fulfilment of most of their demands.

PTI

Ever since Friday, thousands of cab drivers associated with cab services like Uber and Ola had gone to strike against low fares and lack from basic amenities from app based taxi aggregators.

"The Transport Minister has assured us that their fares from the existing Rs 6 per km will be increased. In the meeting, the minister also assured drivers' unions that app-based cab aggregators including Ola and Uber will not charge 25 per cent commission on every booking," Balwant Singh, President of Rajdhani Tourist Drivers' Union was quoted by PTI.