Listen to Maroon 5's New Song with Future, 'Cold'
Listen to Maroon 5's New Song with Future, 'Cold'
The Inside Story of Adele's George Michael Grammy Tribute The 10 Best & Worst Moments at the 2017 Grammys John Legend & Cynthia Erivo Release Studio Version of 'God Only Knows' Grammy Duet 2017 Grammys Photos: Red Carpet, Backstage and More! Listen to Maroon 5's New Song with Future, 'Cold'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Maroon 5 clearly have a game plan for their upcoming sixth album. After recently topping the Pop Songs radio airplay chart with their Kendrick Lamar hook-up "Don't Wanna Know," the Adam Levine-led group dropped their latest rap-assisted single from the as-yet-untitled effort on Monday night (Feb. 13). Teaming up with Future this time around, "Cold" is the second song from the follow-up to 2014's smash album. A moody. mid-tempoÂ ode to a lover who has turned, yes, cold, the song finds Levine lamenting that he senses "there's something going on." Picking up no theÂ chilled romance vibe of the trackÂ -- which dropped on the eve of Valentine's Day --Â Future raps, "Never thought that you was like this/ I took the tag off and made you priceless/ I just spent a half a mill on a chandelier/ Not you trying to cut me off like a lightswitch."Â  Check out the song: Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Maroon 5 clearly have a game plan for their upcoming sixth album. After recently topping the Billboard Pop Songs radio airplay chart with their Kendrick Lamar hook-up "Don't Wanna Know," the Adam Levine-led group dropped their latest rap-assisted single from the as-yet-untitled effort on Monday night (Feb. 13). Teaming up with Future this time around, "Cold" is the second song from the follow-up to 2014's smash V album.

A moody. mid-tempoÂ ode to a lover who has turned, yes, cold, the song finds Levine lamenting that he senses "there's something going on." Picking up no theÂ chilled romance vibe of the trackÂ -- which dropped on the eve of Valentine's Day --Â Future raps, "Never thought that you was like this/ I took the tag off and made you priceless/ I just spent a half a mill on a chandelier/ Not you trying to cut me off like a lightswitch."Â

Check out the song:

Â