Future Will Release New Album This Week, Announces Nobody Safe Tour
Future Will Release New Album This Week, Announces Nobody Safe Tour 
Future Will Release New Album This Week, Announces Nobody Safe Tour  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Future is ready to get back on the saddle and release his new self-titled album this Friday (Feb. 17). For the first time in a month, Future tweeted and revealed that his first album since his 2016 release will be out this week. "I was preparing the feast. U walked away from the table too soon," he wrote. His new 17-track endeavor will have no features. In addition to his new project, Future will embark on a new tour (The Nobody Safe Tour), which will have support from Migos, Tory Lanez, and Kodak Black as openers. In addition to his supporting acts, he will also have A$AP Ferg and Young Thug available for select dates.  The Nobody Safe Tour will begin May 4 at the FedEx Forum in Memphis and will conclude June 30 in Las Vegas, NV. Known for being a workhorse, Future has been quiet on the music front since last year. In 2016, Future released his mixtape and his album . Then, he and Drake ventured out together on their Summer 16 Tour. Amidst his exciting song/tour announcement, Future also jumped on the new Maroon 5 single "Cold," which dropped Tuesday (Feb. 14). For dates, you can check here . Check out the trailer below. I was preparing the feast. U walked away from the table too soon https://t.co/n1PFChLlyb  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Future performs during the 2016 Buku Music + Arts Project on March 12, 2016 in New Orleans.

Future is ready to get back on the saddle and release his new self-titled album this Friday (Feb. 17).

For the first time in a month, Future tweeted and revealed that his first album since his 2016 release EVOL will be out this week. "I was preparing the feast. U walked away from the table too soon," he wrote.

His new 17-track endeavor will have no features. In addition to his new project, Future will embark on a new tour (The Nobody Safe Tour), which will have support from Migos, Tory Lanez, and Kodak Black as openers. In addition to his supporting acts, he will also have A$AP Ferg and Young Thug available for select dates.

The Nobody Safe Tour will begin May 4 at the FedEx Forum in Memphis and will conclude June 30 in Las Vegas, NV.

Known for being a workhorse, Future has been quiet on the music front since last year. In 2016, Future released his mixtape Purple Reign and his album EVOL. Then, he and Drake ventured out together on their Summer 16 Tour. Amidst his exciting song/tour announcement, Future also jumped on the new Maroon 5 single "Cold," which dropped Tuesday (Feb. 14).

For dates, you can check here. Check out the trailer below.