Tory MP opposed to selective education admits sending his children to grammar schools
Tory MP opposed to selective education admits sending his children to grammar schools
Tory MP who is one of the leading opponents of Theresa May's plans for more selective schools sent all three of his children to grammars. Neil Carmichael, chairman of the education select committee, said that the 11 plus is "unfair" and that grammar schools leave children in a "win or lose" position. He was yesterday forced to defend himself from accusations of "hypocrisy" after being confronted by Julia Hartley Brewer on Talkradio. e insisted that he only sent his children to grammar schools because he lived near them, adding that it was "convenient". He said: "We had a system in Gloucestershire where that was appropriate. I'm not saying we should close existing grammar schools. "We have got two grammar schools, both of them have expanded. That's good for them. I was chair of one of those schools. "Your attempt to embarrass me, to accuse me of that [hypocrisy] is backfiring because you are proving the point. "We were living in an area where you go through selective education. You have to go through the process. "Where you have got grammar schools, Kent is an obvious example, you do get parents very keen on them. "But you also get the overall education performance not being as high as it should be."

He insisted that he only sent his children to grammar schools because he lived near them, adding that it was "convenient".

He said: "We had a system in Gloucestershire where that was appropriate. I'm not saying we should close existing grammar schools.

"We have got two grammar schools, both of them have expanded. That's good for them. I was chair of one of those schools.

"Your attempt to embarrass me, to accuse me of that [hypocrisy] is backfiring because you are proving the point.

"We were living in an area where you go through selective education. You have to go through the process.

"Where you have got grammar schools, Kent is an obvious example, you do get parents very keen on them.

"But you also get the overall education performance not being as high as it should be."