BAMN Organizer Yvette Felarca: ‘Fascist’ MILO Is Starting ‘Movement of Genocide,’ Must be Stopped
BAMN Organizer Yvette Felarca: 'Fascist' MILO Is Starting 'Movement of Genocide,' Must be Stopped - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Yvette Felarca, a public school teacher and national organizer for the far-left extremist group By Any Means Necessary (BAMN), smeared Breitbart Senior Editor MILO as a fascist before claiming he’s leading a “movement of genocide” and needs to be stopped during on Monday. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER When asked to define what a fascist is, Felarca claimed, “A fascist is someone who’s organizing a mass movement that’s attacking women, immigrants, black people, other minority groups in a movement of genocide.” “So it’s someone who is committing violence?” Carlson questioned. “It is someone who is committing violence and someone who is trying to organize other people to commit violence,” Felarca replied. “And Milo Yiannopoulos is a fascist.” “So he’s committed acts of violence against the protected groups you mentioned?” asked Carlson. “Well what he’s doing is he’s trying to be the youth face and token that other people who are organizing violence try to hide behind, and so in all of his talks all over the country, what Yiannopoulos has done is whip up a whole lynch mob mentality where people who come to see him, or his supporters, not only agree with his views, but attack other people,” claimed Felarca. “That was certainly true in Washington State when one of his supporters came and actually shot an anti-fascist protester. But in Berkeley, we made sure that didn’t happen, because we were able to shut him down.” “But MILO himself has not committed acts of violence, nor has he incited violence by the legal definition, or he’d be in jail if he did,” Carlson stated. “But you’re saying because people who agree with him have committed violence, he should not be allowed to speak?” “Fascist movements take many forms, and it always tries to have one form that looks respectable and a little bit milder, but Yiannopoulos isn’t just a stand-up comedian, and he isn’t someone who just has ideas and posts them up on YouTube,” Felarca claimed. “He’s someone who’s funded by Breitbart and Steve Bannon to go around to college campuses and to try and recruit other young people to then conduct those attacks on his behalf, and on Trump’s behalf, but I’m really glad to say that thousands of us were out there last week, or February 1st, and made sure that there were thousands of us who defended our campus, this community, and especially the immigrant and Muslim students who were under attack and have been under attack by him and other fascists.” When Carslon asked what should be done with “fascists,” Felarca replied that “first we should make sure they’re not able to recruit,” before adding that MILO and others should not be able to speak in public. Though Carlson pointed out that “There’s no evidence that he’s ever called for the genocide of anyone,” Felarca continued to accuse MILO of “espousing rape” and “genocide,” before stating that fascists must be “shut down.” When asked to explain what “shut down” meant in the eyes of BAMN, and what Felarca and her group would do if someone would not stop saying things that offended them, she refused to go into detail. Throughout the interview, Carlson played a video clip of Felarca assaulting a man during a demonstration in Sacramento. Last week, another organizer for BAMN called the violent Berkeley riot against MILO earlier this month “stunningly successful,” before warning that MILO could expect the same response should he return to the city. “Anti-fascists” from far-left groups started several fires , smashed windows and ATMs, looted downtown stores , attacked cars , and assaulted  dozens of  MILO fans , male and female, who they falsely accused of being “Nazis” during the riot. reported that rioters caused around $100,000 in damages at UC Berkeley, while the damage to downtown Berkeley was reported to be around $400,000 to $500,000 . The day after, MILO’s tour bus was tracked down by “anti-fascists” and vandalized , forcing both him and his team to evacuate the premises after his location was leaked online. BAMN previously distributed flyers in Michigan likening MILO to Adolf Hitler and falsely stating that he “promotes” rape and violence, while the group has also been accused of having links with various terrorist organizations . Following the riot in Berkeley, Mayor Jesse Arreguin repeatedly smeared MILO as a “white nationalist” and declared that he would not be welcome back in the city, while several celebrities and news outlets expressed support for the riot, including Hollywood director Judd Apatow , who deleted his tweet shortly after, and media outlet Fusion, who smeared MILO as a “Nazi” and praised rioters before also deleting their tweet. UC Berkeley’s student newspaper also published several defenses of the violence that took place during MILO’s show, while UC Berkeley has repeated a conspiracy theory claiming Breitbart News was “in cahoots” with anti-fascist rioters in an attempt to get the college defunded.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Yvette Felarca, a public school teacher and national organizer for the far-left extremist group By Any Means Necessary (BAMN), smeared Breitbart Senior Editor MILO as a fascist before claiming he’s leading a “movement of genocide” and needs to be stopped during Tucker Carlson Tonight on Monday.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

When asked to define what a fascist is, Felarca claimed, “A fascist is someone who’s organizing a mass movement that’s attacking women, immigrants, black people, other minority groups in a movement of genocide.”

“So it’s someone who is committing violence?” Carlson questioned.

“It is someone who is committing violence and someone who is trying to organize other people to commit violence,” Felarca replied. “And Milo Yiannopoulos is a fascist.”

“So he’s committed acts of violence against the protected groups you mentioned?” asked Carlson.

“Well what he’s doing is he’s trying to be the youth face and token that other people who are organizing violence try to hide behind, and so in all of his talks all over the country, what Yiannopoulos has done is whip up a whole lynch mob mentality where people who come to see him, or his supporters, not only agree with his views, but attack other people,” claimed Felarca. “That was certainly true in Washington State when one of his supporters came and actually shot an anti-fascist protester. But in Berkeley, we made sure that didn’t happen, because we were able to shut him down.”

“But MILO himself has not committed acts of violence, nor has he incited violence by the legal definition, or he’d be in jail if he did,” Carlson stated. “But you’re saying because people who agree with him have committed violence, he should not be allowed to speak?”

“Fascist movements take many forms, and it always tries to have one form that looks respectable and a little bit milder, but Yiannopoulos isn’t just a stand-up comedian, and he isn’t someone who just has ideas and posts them up on YouTube,” Felarca claimed. “He’s someone who’s funded by Breitbart and Steve Bannon to go around to college campuses and to try and recruit other young people to then conduct those attacks on his behalf, and on Trump’s behalf, but I’m really glad to say that thousands of us were out there last week, or February 1st, and made sure that there were thousands of us who defended our campus, this community, and especially the immigrant and Muslim students who were under attack and have been under attack by him and other fascists.”

When Carslon asked what should be done with “fascists,” Felarca replied that “first we should make sure they’re not able to recruit,” before adding that MILO and others should not be able to speak in public.

Though Carlson pointed out that “There’s no evidence that he’s ever called for the genocide of anyone,” Felarca continued to accuse MILO of “espousing rape” and “genocide,” before stating that fascists must be “shut down.”

When asked to explain what “shut down” meant in the eyes of BAMN, and what Felarca and her group would do if someone would not stop saying things that offended them, she refused to go into detail.

Throughout the interview, Carlson played a video clip of Felarca assaulting a man during a demonstration in Sacramento.

Last week, another organizer for BAMN called the violent Berkeley riot against MILO earlier this month “stunningly successful,” before warning that MILO could expect the same response should he return to the city.

“Anti-fascists” from far-left groups started several fires, smashed windows and ATMs, looted downtown stores, attacked cars, and assaulted dozens of MILO fans, male and female, who they falsely accused of being “Nazis” during the riot.

The San Francisco Chronicle reported that rioters caused around $100,000 in damages at UC Berkeley, while the damage to downtown Berkeley was reported to be around $400,000 to $500,000.

The day after, MILO’s tour bus was tracked down by “anti-fascists” and vandalized, forcing both him and his team to evacuate the premises after his location was leaked online.

BAMN previously distributed flyers in Michigan likening MILO to Adolf Hitler and falsely stating that he “promotes” rape and violence, while the group has also been accused of having links with various terrorist organizations.

Following the riot in Berkeley, Mayor Jesse Arreguin repeatedly smeared MILO as a “white nationalist” and declared that he would not be welcome back in the city, while several celebrities and news outlets expressed support for the riot, including Hollywood director Judd Apatow, who deleted his tweet shortly after, and media outlet Fusion, who smeared MILO as a “Nazi” and praised rioters before also deleting their tweet.

UC Berkeley’s student newspaper also published several defenses of the violence that took place during MILO’s show, while UC Berkeley has repeated a conspiracy theory claiming Breitbart News was “in cahoots” with anti-fascist rioters in an attempt to get the college defunded.

DANGEROUS is available to pre-order now via Amazon, in hardcover and Kindle editions. And yes, MILO is reading the audiobook version himself!

Charlie Nash is a reporter for Breitbart Tech. You can follow him on Twitter @MrNashington or like his page at Facebook.