Floyd Mayweather says fight with Conor McGregor 'getting very, very close'
Mayweather: McGregor fight 'very, very close'
Mayweather: McGregor fight 'very, very close' 1 Related Atlas: If I trained McGregor to face Mayweather Don't fall for Haye's Florida con Boxing fight schedule Divisional rankings: Easter solidifies spot in 135-pound division 2 Related Easter defends lightweight title against Cruz Champions list Broner, Granados now fighting at 147 pounds Brook to face Spence Jr. in England 3 Related Pacquiao asks fans whom he should fight next Broner, Granados now fighting at 147 pounds Boxing fight schedule Culcay-Andrade: Repeat or revenge? Povetkin took banned PED before fight, jury says 3 Related Cruiserweight champion Usyk hires new trainer Boxing fight schedule Champions list Scorecard: Baranchyk beats Ramos in fight to remember 1 Related Easter defends lightweight title against Cruz Pacquiao asks fans whom he should fight next 2 Related Broner, Granados now fighting at 147 pounds Boxing fight schedule Easter defends lightweight title against Cruz 1 Related Boxing fight schedule Cruiserweight champion Usyk hires new trainer Hearn questions Haye approach to Bellew bout Klitschko ready for 'toughest challenge ever' Matthysse back, to fight on Canelo-Chavez card 3 Related Warren puts title on the line against Zhakiyanov Lubin-Cota added to Thurman-Garcia card at Barclays Boxing fight schedule Chat wrap: Dan Rafael talks boxing Top Rank signs Stevenson, 19, with high hopes Shields to make history in second pro fight 3 Related Wilder, Povetkin begin breach-of-contract lawsuit Lee to face Leatherwood on Golovkin-Jacobs card Boxing fight schedule Tete-Villanueva to fight, winner gets titleholder Light heavyweights Fonfara, Dawson look to revive careers Lubin-Cota added to Thurman-Garcia card at Barclays Top Rank inks Puerto Rico Olympian Cintron Assault charges against ex-champ Spadafora dropped Wilder, Povetkin begin breach-of-contract lawsuit 3 Related Washington new opponent for Wilder Fa signs with DiBella; U.S. debut set for Feb. 25 Boxing fight schedule Olympian Josh Kelly set for pro debut in April Lee to face Leatherwood on Golovkin-Jacobs card Rankings: Forget Khan, Brook eyeing mandatory against Spence Jr. 3 Related Purse bid for Brook-Spence fight delayed a week WBA orders rematch of McDonnell-Solis bout Boxing fight schedule Purse bid for Brook-Spence fight delayed a week Klitschko would beat Joshua with former trainer - Lewis Who should Amir Khan fight next? 2 Related Eubank Jr: I want the rest of DeGale's teeth Canelo-Chavez Jr. clash set for T-Mobile Arena Fa signs with DiBella; U.S. debut set for Feb. 25 Tyson, Mutombo adviser guilty of embezzlement WBA orders rematch of McDonnell-Solis bout Scorecard: Verdejo returns with victory but fails to impress 2 Related Eubank Jr: I want the rest of DeGale's teeth Eubank Jr. stops Quinlan to win IBO title Eubank Jr: I want the rest of DeGale's teeth Joshua, Klitschko in a classic battle of youth vs. experience 1 Related Joshua: 'Perfect time' to fight Klitschko Canelo-Chavez Jr. clash set for T-Mobile Arena Stephen A. Smith recaps his conversation with Floyd Mayweather at the Thunder-Warriors game and his takeaway was that a fight with Conor McGregor is close to being finalized. (1:33) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment A potential Floyd Mayweather Jr.- Conor McGregor fight is inching closer. Mayweather -- the former pound-for-pound boxing king -- told ESPN's Stephen A. Smith that "we're getting very, very close" to the superfight. Mayweather spoke to Smith at Saturday's NBA game between the Golden State Warriors and Oklahoma City Thunder . Smith said Mayweather believes the fight will happen, but Mayweather said nothing is guaranteed until a deal is done. Mayweather and McGregor, UFC's lightweight champion, have engaged in a back-and-forth regarding a potential matchup for months. In January, both acknowledged that the fight could happen, though money had been a sticking point in any potential negotiations. Last month, UFC president Dana White made a public offer to McGregor and Mayweather of $25 million each . When told of White's offer by TMZ, Mayweather said, "He's a f---ing comedian!" Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Stephen A. Smith recaps his conversation with Floyd Mayweather at the Thunder-Warriors game and his takeaway was that a fight with Conor McGregor is close to being finalized. (1:33)

A potential Floyd Mayweather Jr.-Conor McGregor fight is inching closer. Mayweather -- the former pound-for-pound boxing king -- told ESPN's Stephen A. Smith that "we're getting very, very close" to the superfight.

Mayweather spoke to Smith at Saturday's NBA game between the Golden State Warriors and Oklahoma City Thunder. Smith said Mayweather believes the fight will happen, but Mayweather said nothing is guaranteed until a deal is done.

Mayweather and McGregor, UFC's lightweight champion, have engaged in a back-and-forth regarding a potential matchup for months. In January, both acknowledged that the fight could happen, though money had been a sticking point in any potential negotiations.

Last month, UFC president Dana White made a public offer to McGregor and Mayweather of $25 million each. When told of White's offer by TMZ, Mayweather said, "He's a f---ing comedian!"