Michael Flynn, OPEC, India: Your Tuesday Briefing
Michael Flynn, OPEC, India: Your Tuesday Briefing
Michael T. Flynn quit the post he held for less than a month after it was revealed that he had misled Vice President Mike Pence about a conversation with a Russian diplomat weeks before President Trump’s inauguration. Mr. Pence is said to have told officials that he believed Mr. Flynn had lied to him in saying that he had not discussed sanctions. The F.B.I. examined Mr. Flynn’s phone calls after he came under scrutiny, and the Justice Department told the White House last month that Mr. Flynn had not fully explained himself, adding that it feared that he could be vulnerable to blackmail by Moscow. Advertisement Here’s a timeline of his tenure, and his resignation letter . Retired Lt. Gen. Joseph K. Kellogg Jr. was named acting national security adviser. The Senate confirmed Steven T. Mnuchin , a former Goldman Sachs banker and Mr. Trump’s top campaign fund-raiser, as Treasury secretary in a 53-to-47 vote. One of Mr. Mnuchin’s first goals will be to help finalize the administration’s tax plan. Advertisement That’s what a member of Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida wrote on Facebook after he witnessed the president discussing North Korea’s missile test on Saturday with top aides and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. Critics said they should have moved to a secure location. Mr. Trump’s meeting with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada on Monday was more formal. The two leaders discussed ways to maintain their countries’ close political and economic links. India’s pollution causes about 1.1 million premature deaths each year, rivaling China’s for worst in the world, according to a study out today. Rapid industrialization, population growth and a lack of government intervention were cited as reasons for India’s environmental crisis. Evacuation orders for nearly 200,000 people remain in place for areas near the Oroville Dam in California , as more storms are expected this week. Workers are trying to repair a hole in the dam’s main spillway. The situation is a drastic reversal for the area, which had been affected by more than five years of drought. Today’s show asks: Could the president’s emerging plan for Arab-Israeli peace actually work? Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Listen here if you’re on a computer, here if you have an iOS device or here for an Android device. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business in the U.S. are offering customers a chance to ditch their A.T.M. cards and use smartphones to take out cash. Advertisement are largely sticking to an agreement to limit production in a bid to bolster oil prices, but how long will they cooperate? Here’s a quick rundown of the deal, its implementation and its implications. stopped publishing nude photographs last year. Now it’s reversing course . were up on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living at work today? Remember to take a break . , this man still plays, teaches and conducts. Like the music, he keeps going .  : Impress your sweetheart with this easy-to-make chocolate fudge . Noteworthy Throughout Black History Month, we’re featuring previously unpublished photographs from the 1960s. Our latest focus on Tommy Hunt , one of soul music’s first stars and a regular at the Apollo Theater in New York alongside Marvin Gaye, Ray Charles, Diana Ross, The Shirelles, The Supremes and many others. The big story to emerge after the awards was the freeze-out of Beyoncé in the top categories. “It was #GrammysSoWhite come to life ,” our critic writes, adding that the show’s race problem “is so pernicious that some white winners have chosen contrition over exuberance.” Advertisement One of our most popular articles today is an op-ed by a professor of biology on attempts to censor government scientists, specifically an episode 10 years ago in Canada . An editor and an author discuss which 20th-century dystopian novel best applies to 2017 : “1984” or “Brave New World.” Our latest 360 video takes you backstage at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. On Monday, the hosts found a new nemesis: the White House adviser Stephen Miller, who suggested over the weekend that in the future, the president’s authority “will not be questioned.” Seth Meyers said , “The only way that statement could be more terrifying is if he yelled it in German.” Back Story Valentine’s Day isn’t the only holiday celebrating love today in the U.S. It is also National Donor Day, a government effort encouraging Americans to register to donate organs, eyes and tissue. Fifty years ago in South Africa, Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard performed the first human heart transplant. The patient survived just 18 days, but the use of a donor left brain-dead after an accident was heralded by other doctors. “It was a monumental advance,” one said, “more societal perhaps than medical, because it applied to all organ transplants.” Advertisement Dr. Barnard’s second transplant patient lived for 19 months. The surgery was also notable because the donated heart came from a biracial man, a divisive decision during apartheid. The kidney is the most frequent organ transplanted. The first operation to transfer a kidney that was considered successful took place in Boston in 1954 and involved a man and his dying twin . Tiff Fehr, a colleague at The Times, saved a fellow journalist in December. She has this advice to anyone considering the brave act: “Donating a kidney was a kind of faith: in people, health care, hospitals and more. I’m gratified it went well on all fronts.” For information on how to help, here are donation and transplantation organizations . We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Listen here if you’re on a computer, here if you have an iOS device or here for an Android device.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• Some of the biggest banks in the U.S. are offering customers a chance to ditch their A.T.M. cards and use smartphones to take out cash.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• OPEC members are largely sticking to an agreement to limit production in a bid to bolster oil prices, but how long will they cooperate?

Here’s a quick rundown of the deal, its implementation and its implications.

• Playboy stopped publishing nude photographs last year. Now it’s reversing course.

• U.S. stocks were up on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• Want to stay focused at work today? Remember to take a break.

• At 100, this man still plays, teaches and conducts. Like the music, he keeps going.

• Recipe of the day: Impress your sweetheart with this easy-to-make chocolate fudge.

Noteworthy

• Inside The Times’s archives.

Throughout Black History Month, we’re featuring previously unpublished photographs from the 1960s.

Photo

Our latest focus on Tommy Hunt, one of soul music’s first stars and a regular at the Apollo Theater in New York alongside Marvin Gaye, Ray Charles, Diana Ross, The Shirelles, The Supremes and many others.

• Controversy after the Grammys.

The big story to emerge after the awards was the freeze-out of Beyoncé in the top categories.

“It was #GrammysSoWhite come to life,” our critic writes, adding that the show’s race problem “is so pernicious that some white winners have chosen contrition over exuberance.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Threats to science.

One of our most popular articles today is an op-ed by a professor of biology on attempts to censor government scientists, specifically an episode 10 years ago in Canada.

• Literary debate.

An editor and an author discuss which 20th-century dystopian novel best applies to 2017: “1984” or “Brave New World.”

• The life of a show dog.

Our latest 360 video takes you backstage at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show.

• Best of late-night TV.

On Monday, the hosts found a new nemesis: the White House adviser Stephen Miller, who suggested over the weekend that in the future, the president’s authority “will not be questioned.”

Seth Meyers said, “The only way that statement could be more terrifying is if he yelled it in German.”

Back Story

Valentine’s Day isn’t the only holiday celebrating love today in the U.S.

It is also National Donor Day, a government effort encouraging Americans to register to donate organs, eyes and tissue.

Photo

Fifty years ago in South Africa, Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard performed the first human heart transplant. The patient survived just 18 days, but the use of a donor left brain-dead after an accident was heralded by other doctors.

“It was a monumental advance,” one said, “more societal perhaps than medical, because it applied to all organ transplants.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dr. Barnard’s second transplant patient lived for 19 months. The surgery was also notable because the donated heart came from a biracial man, a divisive decision during apartheid.

The kidney is the most frequent organ transplanted. The first operation to transfer a kidney that was considered successful took place in Boston in 1954 and involved a man and his dying twin.

Tiff Fehr, a colleague at The Times, saved a fellow journalist in December. She has this advice to anyone considering the brave act: “Donating a kidney was a kind of faith: in people, health care, hospitals and more. I’m gratified it went well on all fronts.”

For information on how to help, here are donation and transplantation organizations.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.