Canadian judge rules in favor of forcibly adopted First Nations survivors

Julien Gignac in Toronto    After a bitter legal battle that has lasted nearly a decade , a Canadian judge has ruled that the government is liable for the harm inflicted on thousands of First Nations children who were forcibly removed from their families and adopted by non-indigenous families. Between 1965 and 1984, around 16,000 indigenous children were fostered or put up for adoption in an episode which became known as the “Sixties Scoop”. Ontario superior court justice Edward Belobaba’s ruling Tuesday found in favour of survivors of the operation and their families, who argued that the forced removal robbed the children of their cultural identity and caused emotional damage that has resonated for generations. “There is … no dispute that great harm was done,” Belobaba wrote. “The ‘scooped’ children lost contact with their families. They lost their aboriginal language, culture and identity. Neither the children nor their foster or adoptive parents were given information about the children’s aboriginal heritage or about the various educational and other benefits that they were entitled to receive. The removed children vanished ‘scarcely without a trace’.” The class-action lawsuit was launched last year , after nearly seven years of delays, mostly because of appeals by the federal government. The plaintiffs sued the federal government for C$1.3bn in damages, though a settlement has yet to be reached. Belobaba accepted the argument that the federal government did not consult with indigenous parties before provincial agents moved in to apprehend 16,000 children from Ontario reserves. “The evidence supporting the plaintiff on this is, frankly, insurmountable. In any event, Canada offered no evidence to suggest otherwise,” he said in the decision. “The uncontroverted evidence of the plaintiff’s experts is that the loss of their aboriginal identity left the children fundamentally disoriented, with a reduced ability to lead healthy and fulfilling lives,” Balobaba wrote. “The loss of aboriginal identity resulted in psychiatric disorders, substance abuse, unemployment, violence and numerous suicides.” Canada has never officially apologised for removing the children – a failure which still needs to be set right, according to Michael Cheena, of Toronto’s Council Fire Native Cultural Centre. “Reconciliation means acknowledging historical injustices and taking action to end colonialism,” he said. “These policies eradicated spiritual practices, cultural identity and language.” Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the government would not appeal the decision and that the government wanted to meet survivors by the end of the month to discuss a settlement. John Fox, 56, one of the plaintiffs in the case, was taken from the Wikwemikong First Nation when he was 11 years old, and suffered years of abuse with the family he was eventually placed with. “There was no more freedom,” he said. “I couldn’t speak my language. It’s taken all this time to have balance in my life and feel better about myself.” Jeffery Wilson, a legal adviser for the plaintiffs, said the ruling gave a clear message to the Canadian government. “The court has found what took place is lawfully wrong,” he said. But he added that the lawsuit was not just about compensation. “It’s about providing restorative help for the plaintiffs who have been traumatised and kept waiting because of the litigation process.” Marcia Brown Martel, one of the lead complainants in the lawsuit said the ruling was “a step closer to reconciliation”. “After so many years, I feel like a great weight has been lifted from my heart. Our voices were finally heard and listened to. Our pain was acknowledged. I hope no one sees this as a loss for our government. It is a gain for all of us,” she said. “There is still work to be done, but my hope is that we can now undertake that work with open hearts and open minds.” Topics  Canada   Indigenous peoples

After a bitter legal battle that has lasted nearly a decade, a Canadian judge has ruled that the government is liable for the harm inflicted on thousands of First Nations children who were forcibly removed from their families and adopted by non-indigenous families.

Between 1965 and 1984, around 16,000 indigenous children were fostered or put up for adoption in an episode which became known as the “Sixties Scoop”.

Ontario superior court justice Edward Belobaba’s ruling Tuesday found in favour of survivors of the operation and their families, who argued that the forced removal robbed the children of their cultural identity and caused emotional damage that has resonated for generations.

Indigenous Canadians taken from homes as children get day in court Read more

“There is … no dispute that great harm was done,” Belobaba wrote. “The ‘scooped’ children lost contact with their families. They lost their aboriginal language, culture and identity. Neither the children nor their foster or adoptive parents were given information about the children’s aboriginal heritage or about the various educational and other benefits that they were entitled to receive. The removed children vanished ‘scarcely without a trace’.”



The class-action lawsuit was launched last year, after nearly seven years of delays, mostly because of appeals by the federal government. The plaintiffs sued the federal government for C$1.3bn in damages, though a settlement has yet to be reached.

Belobaba accepted the argument that the federal government did not consult with indigenous parties before provincial agents moved in to apprehend 16,000 children from Ontario reserves.



“The evidence supporting the plaintiff on this is, frankly, insurmountable. In any event, Canada offered no evidence to suggest otherwise,” he said in the decision.



“The uncontroverted evidence of the plaintiff’s experts is that the loss of their aboriginal identity left the children fundamentally disoriented, with a reduced ability to lead healthy and fulfilling lives,” Balobaba wrote. “The loss of aboriginal identity resulted in psychiatric disorders, substance abuse, unemployment, violence and numerous suicides.”

Canada has never officially apologised for removing the children – a failure which still needs to be set right, according to Michael Cheena, of Toronto’s Council Fire Native Cultural Centre.

“Reconciliation means acknowledging historical injustices and taking action to end colonialism,” he said. “These policies eradicated spiritual practices, cultural identity and language.”



Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the government would not appeal the decision and that the government wanted to meet survivors by the end of the month to discuss a settlement.

John Fox, 56, one of the plaintiffs in the case, was taken from the Wikwemikong First Nation when he was 11 years old, and suffered years of abuse with the family he was eventually placed with.



“There was no more freedom,” he said. “I couldn’t speak my language. It’s taken all this time to have balance in my life and feel better about myself.”

Jeffery Wilson, a legal adviser for the plaintiffs, said the ruling gave a clear message to the Canadian government.



“The court has found what took place is lawfully wrong,” he said. But he added that the lawsuit was not just about compensation. “It’s about providing restorative help for the plaintiffs who have been traumatised and kept waiting because of the litigation process.”

Marcia Brown Martel, one of the lead complainants in the lawsuit said the ruling was “a step closer to reconciliation”.



“After so many years, I feel like a great weight has been lifted from my heart. Our voices were finally heard and listened to. Our pain was acknowledged. I hope no one sees this as a loss for our government. It is a gain for all of us,” she said. “There is still work to be done, but my hope is that we can now undertake that work with open hearts and open minds.”