Q&A: Jacqui Lambie and Yassmin Abdel-Magied exchange barbs over sharia law



Q&A: Jacqui Lambie and Yassmin Abdel-Magied exchange barbs over sharia law

Updated

A debate on migration led to fireworks on Monday night's Q&A program, with outspoken independent senator Jacqui Lambie getting into a shouting match with Islamic youth leader Yassmin Abdel-Magied over sharia law.

Key points: Senator Jacqui Lambie said "anyone that supports sharia law should be deported"

Youth leader Yassmin Abdel-Magied accused Ms Lambie of being uninformed

Their differences were set aside regarding childhood education funding — both opposing the Government's proposed funding cuts

The face-off occurred after an audience member asked if it was time to define new rules surrounding migration to avoid community conflict, leading Senator Lambie to reaffirm her position that anyone that supports sharia law be deported from Australia.

Ms Abdel-Magied interjected, asking the Tasmanian senator if she knew what sharia law was, before the two fought over its definition and women's rights.

"My frustration is that people talk about Islam without knowing anything about it and they're willing to completely negate any of my rights as a human being," Ms Abdel-Magied said.

"Islam to me is the most feminist religion. We got equal rights well before the Europeans. We don't take our husbands' last names because we ain't their property."

Senator Lambie replied forcefully, saying there was only one law for Australians.

"The fact is we have one law in this country and it is the Australian law — not sharia law, not in this country, not in my day," she said to cheers from the audience.

Ms Abdel-Magied retorted, saying Islam taught people to follow the law of the land they are on, before the pair sparred again, forcing host Tony Jones to put an end to the fracas.

The pair also traded barbs when US President Donald Trump's ban on Muslim immigration was brought up, with Senator Lambie saying she supported a similar ban being introduced into Australia.

"This is what the majority want — the majority want to feel safe, be safe. And Donald Trump, if he wants to put that and put those on hold for three months, he has every right to do so," she said.

Early childhood education debate unites warring pair

But Senator Lambie's and Ms Adbel-Magied's differences were put to one side when the discussion turned to the Federal Government's plans to change its funding of early childhood education.

The pair turned their attention to Liberal senator James Paterson, who attempted to defend the Government's position on activity testing parents in order for children to receive childcare.

"Oh mate, you know how many families who have been living in public housing — third and fourth generations — it doesn't work like that," Senator Lambie said, with Ms Adbel-Magied saying she was "with Jacqui on this".

"Why should kids pay the penalty being stuck inside those houses? Get them out of there!"

Senator Paterson tried to respond but could not get a word in over Senator Lambie.

"Oh bullshit!" she said.

"I'm really angry about this. You need to get those kids out of there."

Topics: islam, government-and-politics, immigration, australia

First posted