Donald Trump's US Treasury Secretary: Things you may not know about ex-Goldman banker Steven Mnuchin
Donald Trump's US Treasury Secretary: Things you may not know about ex-Goldman banker Steven Mnuchin
Donald Trump has just sworn in his new Treasury Secretary. He’s an ex-hedge fund manager with an unusual name and a semi-famous girlfriend. He's helped finance films like and and he led Mr Trump’s fundraising efforts during the campaign. He was also once described as the "Forest Gump of the financial crisis". Here’s what else you need to know about Steven Mnuchin . Mr Mnuchin (pronounced min-new-chin) was on Monday night confirmed by the Senate as Treasury secretary with 53 to 77 votes. He joins Mr Trump’s team from the world of banking. Mr Mnuchin spent more than a decade and a half at Wall Street bellweather Goldman Sachs , following in the footsteps of his father who was reportedly spent around three decades working for the bank.   Trump is assembling the richest administration in modern US history During his time there, he worked in the mortgage department, dealing with products like collateralised debt obligations and credit default swaps, which arguable played a major part in the 2008 financial crisis. According to , Mr Mnuchin left Goldman Sachs in 2012 to start a hedge fund with his former roommate from Yale, before later jointly creating a hedge fund with billionaire financier George Soros. In 2009, during the thick of the global financial crisis, Mr Mnuchin led a group of high-flying financial types who bought a troubled housing lender called IndyMac. They renamed the company OneWest and Mr Mnuchin became chairman. The company was heavily criticised in the aftermath of the crisis. Two California housing watchdogs filed a federal complaint against the company, according to , accusing it of violating the Fair Housing Act by discriminating against blacks, Hispanics, and Asians.  OneWest was eventually sold for a lot more than it was bought. His dealings in the world of finance won’t easily be forgotten. According to , democratic senator Elizabeth Warren last year put out a damming statement on Mr Mnuchin calling him “the Forrest Gump of the financial crisis.” “He managed to participate in all the worst practices on Wall Street. He spent two decades at Goldman Sachs helping the bank peddle the same kind of mortgage products that blew up the economy and sucked down billions in taxpayer bailout money before he moved on to run a bank that was infamous for aggressively foreclosing on families,” she said, according to . Read more Campaigners demand Donald Trump fully divests from empire These are the early signs Donald Trump is undermining democracy Former Goldman Sachs banker confirms he will be US Treasury Secretary CEOs, oil tycoons and sons tipped to make up Donald Trump’s cabinet According to , Mr Mnuchin in 2004 started a company called Dune Capital Management which has helped finance a whole slew of successful films, including , the franchise, and . According to the publication, Dune has a deal with movie financing company RatPac to invest several hundred million dollars in most Warner Bros movies. He’s a regular at the star-studded Cannes Film Festival and other glitzy events and even had a cameo role as "Merrill Lynch executive" in Warren Beatty's new film, that came out last year. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and abortion   Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March   Getty     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images  Mr Mnuchin was married to Heather Mnuchin, with who he has three children, for 15 years before they divorced in 2009, according to . Since last year he’s been engaged to Louise Linton, a Scottish actress who has 19 acting credits on the online movie database IMDb. But to many she’s likely to be best known for an episode last year when she attracted waves of criticism and ridicule after the self-published a  memoir about her time in Zambia. It was widely mocked for its clichéd descriptions of poverty and danger in the country. reported that the public-shaming became so fierce, that the book was actually withdrawn from Amazon. Zambians reacted particularly harshly Ms Linton’s account, taking to social media with the hashtag #LintonLies to scorn what they described as vastly misguided accounts of her time in the country. Mr Mnuchin, who according to has a 20,000 sq ft mansion in Bel Air, California and a fortune believed to run to several hundred million pounds, has boasted publicly of plans to wed Ms Linton on the White House lawn. If the nuptials are indeed held there, it would be the 18th marriage ceremony to be conducted there with the most recent being the marriage of Hillary Clinton’s brother Tony Rodham in the Rose Garden in 1994, according to . More about: Donald Trump Goldman Sachs Treasury Secretary Elizabeth Warren steven mnuchin Comments

Donald Trump has just sworn in his new Treasury Secretary.

He’s an ex-hedge fund manager with an unusual name and a semi-famous girlfriend. He's helped finance films like Avatar and The Lego Batman Movie and he led Mr Trump’s fundraising efforts during the campaign.

He was also once described as the "Forest Gump of the financial crisis". Here’s what else you need to know about Steven Mnuchin.

He’s got quite a history on Wall Street

Mr Mnuchin (pronounced min-new-chin) was on Monday night confirmed by the Senate as Treasury secretary with 53 to 77 votes. He joins Mr Trump’s team from the world of banking.

Mr Mnuchin spent more than a decade and a half at Wall Street bellweather Goldman Sachs, following in the footsteps of his father who was reportedly spent around three decades working for the bank.

During his time there, he worked in the mortgage department, dealing with products like collateralised debt obligations and credit default swaps, which arguable played a major part in the 2008 financial crisis.

According to Business Insider, Mr Mnuchin left Goldman Sachs in 2012 to start a hedge fund with his former roommate from Yale, before later jointly creating a hedge fund with billionaire financier George Soros.

In 2009, during the thick of the global financial crisis, Mr Mnuchin led a group of high-flying financial types who bought a troubled housing lender called IndyMac. They renamed the company OneWest and Mr Mnuchin became chairman.

The company was heavily criticised in the aftermath of the crisis. Two California housing watchdogs filed a federal complaint against the company, according to Business Insider, accusing it of violating the Fair Housing Act by discriminating against blacks, Hispanics, and Asians. OneWest was eventually sold for a lot more than it was bought.

His dealings in the world of finance won’t easily be forgotten.

According to CNN, democratic senator Elizabeth Warren last year put out a damming statement on Mr Mnuchin calling him “the Forrest Gump of the financial crisis.”

“He managed to participate in all the worst practices on Wall Street. He spent two decades at Goldman Sachs helping the bank peddle the same kind of mortgage products that blew up the economy and sucked down billions in taxpayer bailout money before he moved on to run a bank that was infamous for aggressively foreclosing on families,” she said, according to CNN.

He’s no stranger to the film industry

According to The Hollywood Reporter, Mr Mnuchin in 2004 started a company called Dune Capital Management which has helped finance a whole slew of successful films, including The Devil Wears Prada, the X-Men franchise, and Avatar.

According to the publication, Dune has a deal with movie financing company RatPac to invest several hundred million dollars in most Warner Bros movies.

He’s a regular at the star-studded Cannes Film Festival and other glitzy events and even had a cameo role as "Merrill Lynch executive" in Warren Beatty's new film, Rules Don't Apply, that came out last year.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







10 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued

















1/10 Trump and abortion Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March Getty

2/10 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

3/10 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

4/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

5/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

6/10 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

7/10 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

8/10 Trump and the media White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC Getty Images

9/10 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

10/10 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

He is engaged to a Scottish actress whose memoire of her travels in Zambia didn’t go down too well

Mr Mnuchin was married to Heather Mnuchin, with who he has three children, for 15 years before they divorced in 2009, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

Since last year he’s been engaged to Louise Linton, a Scottish actress who has 19 acting credits on the online movie database IMDb. But to many she’s likely to be best known for an episode last year when she attracted waves of criticism and ridicule after the self-published a memoir about her time in Zambia.

It was widely mocked for its clichéd descriptions of poverty and danger in the country. Quartz reported that the public-shaming became so fierce, that the book was actually withdrawn from Amazon.

Zambians reacted particularly harshly Ms Linton’s account, taking to social media with the hashtag #LintonLies to scorn what they described as vastly misguided accounts of her time in the country.

Mr Mnuchin, who according to The Times has a 20,000 sq ft mansion in Bel Air, California and a fortune believed to run to several hundred million pounds, has boasted publicly of plans to wed Ms Linton on the White House lawn.

If the nuptials are indeed held there, it would be the 18th marriage ceremony to be conducted there with the most recent being the marriage of Hillary Clinton’s brother Tony Rodham in the Rose Garden in 1994, according to The Times.