Nokia to bring back historic 3310 mobile phone
Nokia to bring back historic 3310 mobile phone
okia is going to bring back the historic 3310 in the biggest tech comeback of all time. A homage to the Finnish giant's classic feature phone will reportedly be released later this month when HMD unveils its new range of Nokia branded devices at Mobile World Congress. The Nokia 3310, which was first released in 2000, was beloved for a days-long battery life, ability to withstand great falls, and the classic game Snake. The nostalgia-inducing phone, which hasn’t been available for some years, will probably get a refresh, although it is not entirely clear how modernised it will be. he updated Nokia 3310 will cost €59 (£50), according to Venture Beat , and is designed to be a second phone. There are few details about the new phone's features and how it will work. The original Nokia 3310 could make calls and send text messages, but didn't have a camera and couldn't connect to the internet. But it was renowned for being indestructible and having a seemingly endless battery life. It is not clear if the contemporary "homage" to the 3310 will introduce some of the more expected features of phones such as internet connection and apps. MD, the Finnish startup which secured a 10-year deal to create phones under the Nokia brand, will unveil its first range of smartphones on February 26. As well as the updated 3310 it is expected to release a range of low-end Android smartphones. These have been designed to be recognisable as Nokia devices and "take the clutter away", HMD said. ts first phone was the Nokia 6, which was released in China at the beginning of this year. While the 3310 isn’t Nokia’s best selling phone of all time, it is one of the most iconic. It sold more than 126 million units and its sturdy design meant many first time phone owners kept it for years.

Nokia is going to bring back the historic 3310 in the biggest tech comeback of all time. A homage to the Finnish giant's classic feature phone will reportedly be released later this month when HMD unveils its new range of Nokia branded devices at Mobile World Congress.

The Nokia 3310, which was first released in 2000, was beloved for a days-long battery life, ability to withstand great falls, and the classic game Snake.

The nostalgia-inducing phone, which hasn’t been available for some years, will probably get a refresh, although it is not entirely clear how modernised it will be.