New England Patriots' winning touchdown ball from Super Bowl never missing, after all
Patriots' winning TD ball never missing, after all
Patriots' winning TD ball never missing, after all Source: 49ers likely to hire Saleh as new DC If history holds, Dak Prescott will show he has more to offer Patriots' Dont'a Hightower shares his thoughts on pending free agency From Colin Kaepernick to Landry Jones, Steelers have backup QB options Barnwell's 5 NFC East moves: So long, Romo; franchise Cousins? Brandon LaFell was Bengals' best FA signing in '16; Will they go big in '17? Former Cardinals WR Michael Floyd was surprised by release How Victor Cruz became a Giants legend in such a short period of time Despite Victor Cruz's release, the Latino star still shines bright in NY 32 NFL players who need a change of scenery Russell Wilson, Seahawks must find third-down solutions in 2017 Broncos need offensive line overhaul in order to restore run game Breshad Perriman has to be more than two-dimensional to become Ravens' No. 1 WR Will this be the year Saints draft Drew Brees' successor? Packers can re-build their defense around Ha Ha Clinton-Dix Now 49ers coach, Kyle Shanahan looks back and laughs at lost backpack Panthers tackle Michael Oher reminds he's beaten the odds before Destination Romo: All the places Tony could go How the Cowboys could have kept Tony Romo and Dak Prescott Offseason predictions for every NFL team Way-Too-Early NFL Power Rankings: Patriots No. 1 in 2017? Stacking up NFL's top offseason priorities for 2017 QB Confidence Index: Brady, Patriots still No. 1 How crazy close Patriots are to 7-0 -- or 0-7 -- in Super Bowls Patriots RB James White reflects on his Super Bowl-winning touchdown in overtime. (1:57) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covered Patriots since 1997 Joined ESPN in 2009 Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- New England Patriots running back James White said he forgot to keep the football that he scored the game-winning touchdown with in Super Bowl LI, but luckily for him, an equipment assistant scooped it up, according to a team spokesman. The Patriots are now displaying the football at their Hall of Fame. Now on display: The game winning ball from the #Patriots record breaking comeback to defeat the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI. pic.twitter.com/6EVXfXoyli — The Hall (@TheHall) February 13, 2017 On ESPN Radio's Mike & Mike show the day after Super Bowl LI, White said he forgot to keep the football. In a separate interview on "The Dan Patrick Show" the following day, White said he was hopeful that an equipment manager picked it up. White's remarks came in the wake of uncertainty over the whereabouts of quarterback Tom Brady 's game jersey, which led some to assume that perhaps the football was also missing. "I wasn't thinking in that moment," White said. "I was too busy sprinting down the field." But a team spokesman explained that an equipment assistant retrieved the football at the time of the touchdown, as would be normal protocol. The football could ultimately be given to White as a keepsake, but for now it is being shared with the team's fans. Brady's jersey still has yet to be found. "It's very sad to me that someone would do something like this," Patriots owner Robert Kraft told the Fox Business Network on Monday of Brady's jersey. "It's like taking a great Chagall or Picasso or something. You can never display it. And somehow, I feel there'll be some news that'll clear this up in the not-too-distant future." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -- New England Patriots running back James White said he forgot to keep the football that he scored the game-winning touchdown with in Super Bowl LI, but luckily for him, an equipment assistant scooped it up, according to a team spokesman.

The Patriots are now displaying the football at their Hall of Fame.

Now on display: The game winning ball from the #Patriots record breaking comeback to defeat the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI. pic.twitter.com/6EVXfXoyli — The Hall (@TheHall) February 13, 2017

On ESPN Radio's Mike & Mike show the day after Super Bowl LI, White said he forgot to keep the football. In a separate interview on "The Dan Patrick Show" the following day, White said he was hopeful that an equipment manager picked it up.

White's remarks came in the wake of uncertainty over the whereabouts of quarterback Tom Brady's game jersey, which led some to assume that perhaps the football was also missing.

"I wasn't thinking in that moment," White said. "I was too busy sprinting down the field."

Editor's Picks Patriots file for 'Blitz for Six' trademark Just two days after winning Super Bowl LI for their fifth championship, the Patriots are looking ahead to next season by filing to trademark the phrase "Blitz for Six."

But a team spokesman explained that an equipment assistant retrieved the football at the time of the touchdown, as would be normal protocol.

The football could ultimately be given to White as a keepsake, but for now it is being shared with the team's fans.

Brady's jersey still has yet to be found.

"It's very sad to me that someone would do something like this," Patriots owner Robert Kraft told the Fox Business Network on Monday of Brady's jersey. "It's like taking a great Chagall or Picasso or something. You can never display it. And somehow, I feel there'll be some news that'll clear this up in the not-too-distant future."