In First Ban On Top Officials, Trump Administration Blacklists Venezuela Vice President El Aissami For Drug Trafficking
Trump Administration Blacklists Venezuela Vice President El Aissami For Drug Trafficking
In First Ban On Top Officials, Trump Administration Blacklists Venezuela Vice President El Aissami For Drug Trafficking In first of the case of a crackdown on top foreign officials, the Trump administration has blacklisted Venezuela’s Vice President Tareck El Aissami for drug trafficking. The US Department of Treasury said that it designated El Aissami for sanction under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (FNKDA) while his associate, Sarmark Jose Lopez Bello was targeted for funding El Aissami’s activities, the Treasury department said in a statement. Apart from the individuals, Treasury also targeted 13 companies either owned or controlled by Lopez Bello or other and their network cover large parts comprising the US, Panama, British Virgin Islands, Britain and Venezuela. "El Aissami facilitated shipments of narcotics from Venezuela, to include control over planes that leave from a Venezuelan airbase, as well as control of drug routes through the ports of Venezuela," a senior U.S. administration official told a conference call with reporters and Reuters quoted him. The Treasury also said that El Aissami partially owned the narcotics shipment of more than 1,000 kilograms from Venezuela on multiple occasions, including the shipment from the US and Mexico. U.S. officials called Lopez Bello a "key frontman" used by El Aissami to handle financial matters and purchase assets. The Venezuelan government did not immediately respond to a request for comment. However, President Nicolas Maduro frequently accuses the US officials of trying to smear his administration.

In first of the case of a crackdown on top foreign officials, the Trump administration has blacklisted Venezuela’s Vice President Tareck El Aissami for drug trafficking.

The US Department of Treasury said that it designated El Aissami for sanction under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (FNKDA) while his associate, Sarmark Jose Lopez Bello was targeted for funding El Aissami’s activities, the Treasury department said in a statement.

Apart from the individuals, Treasury also targeted 13 companies either owned or controlled by Lopez Bello or other and their network cover large parts comprising the US, Panama, British Virgin Islands, Britain and Venezuela.

AFP

"El Aissami facilitated shipments of narcotics from Venezuela, to include control over planes that leave from a Venezuelan airbase, as well as control of drug routes through the ports of Venezuela," a senior U.S. administration official told a conference call with reporters and Reuters quoted him.

The Treasury also said that El Aissami partially owned the narcotics shipment of more than 1,000 kilograms from Venezuela on multiple occasions, including the shipment from the US and Mexico.

El Aissami (left) with President of Venezuela, AFP

U.S. officials called Lopez Bello a "key frontman" used by El Aissami to handle financial matters and purchase assets.

The Venezuelan government did not immediately respond to a request for comment. However, President Nicolas Maduro frequently accuses the US officials of trying to smear his administration.