Apple's Surprising Collaboration To Improve Your New iPhone
Apple's Surprising Collaboration To Improve Your New iPhone
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ewan Spence       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Apple's upcoming tenth anniversary iPhone is expected to include a number of new features to Cupertino's smartphone. I've a particular affinity with wireless charging in my handsets, and I'm excited by the  prospect of the presumptively named iPhone 8 picking up this technology - both for the usefulness to the iPhone but also in Apple's ability to promote the technology and improve the wireless environment for everyone. Today saw Apple take another step that points towards a more open attitude to the magical power refreshing solution as it confirmed it will join the Wireless Power Consortium. Apple supplied a comment to Business Insider which confirmed this detail: Apple is an active member of many standards development organizations, as both a leader and contributor. Apple is joining the Wireless Power Consortium to be able to participate and contribute ideas to the open, collaborative development of future wireless charging standards. We look forward to working together with the WPC and its members. Wireless Charging The iPhone 6 (image: Ewan Spence) I've previously written about the decision that Apple will have to make when it adds wireless charging to the iPhone.  The Qi wireless standard has grown in popularity over the last twelve months and can be found in a number of smartphones. Having personally lived and loved with wireless charging since using the first Windows Phone models from Nokia with this technology, I have watched it reach the major handsets (including the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge) with delight. The usefulness of this technology and the peace of mind it offers a user is immense. While it doesn't help when you are on the move for extended periods of times (at which point a battery pack with built-in wireless charging is my nirvana ) for the vast majority of users working at a fixed point such as an office desk the benefits of wireless charging and far greater in my opinion than the rise of the rapid charger. The decision is a simple one but it will have repercussions for existing wireless users looking at the iPhone, part of Apple's strategy for the next few years, and the impact of the iPhone 8 on the wireless charging ecosystem. Will Apple use an existing standard and promote interoperability, or will it tweak the implementation of induction to use its own proprietary method? With Apple joining the Wireless Power Consortium, I think it would be fair to suggest that Apple is going to look towards the former and use the existing standards. Follow me on Facebook . Find more of my work at ewanspence.co.uk , on Twitter , and Linked In . You should subscribe to my weekly newsletter of 'Trivial Posts' .    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Apple's upcoming tenth anniversary iPhone is expected to include a number of new features to Cupertino's smartphone. I've a particular affinity with wireless charging in my handsets, and I'm excited by the prospect of the presumptively named iPhone 8 picking up this technology - both for the usefulness to the iPhone but also in Apple's ability to promote the technology and improve the wireless environment for everyone.

Today saw Apple take another step that points towards a more open attitude to the magical power refreshing solution as it confirmed it will join the Wireless Power Consortium. Apple supplied a comment to Business Insider which confirmed this detail:

Apple is an active member of many standards development organizations, as both a leader and contributor. Apple is joining the Wireless Power Consortium to be able to participate and contribute ideas to the open, collaborative development of future wireless charging standards. We look forward to working together with the WPC and its members.

I've previously written about the decision that Apple will have to make when it adds wireless charging to the iPhone. The Qi wireless standard has grown in popularity over the last twelve months and can be found in a number of smartphones. Having personally lived and loved with wireless charging since using the first Windows Phone models from Nokia with this technology, I have watched it reach the major handsets (including the Samsung Galaxy S6 and S6 Edge) with delight. The usefulness of this technology and the peace of mind it offers a user is immense.

While it doesn't help when you are on the move for extended periods of times (at which point a battery pack with built-in wireless charging is my nirvana) for the vast majority of users working at a fixed point such as an office desk the benefits of wireless charging and far greater in my opinion than the rise of the rapid charger.

The decision is a simple one but it will have repercussions for existing wireless users looking at the iPhone, part of Apple's strategy for the next few years, and the impact of the iPhone 8 on the wireless charging ecosystem. Will Apple use an existing standard and promote interoperability, or will it tweak the implementation of induction to use its own proprietary method?

With Apple joining the Wireless Power Consortium, I think it would be fair to suggest that Apple is going to look towards the former and use the existing standards.

Now read how the design changes on the iPhone 8 facilitate wireless charging...

Follow me on Facebook. Find more of my work at ewanspence.co.uk, on Twitter, and Linked In. You should subscribe to my weekly newsletter of 'Trivial Posts'.