'Pangolin Princess' detained in China after posting images online of cooked wildlife
'Pangolin Princess' detained in China after posting images online of cooked wildlife
woman who was nicknamed “Pangolin Princess” in China after she posted online images of various cooked wildlife that she had eaten has been held by police, authorities said on Tuesday. Among the dishes posted by the woman, who was named Ms Lin by authorities, was a soup made up of meat from eight different animals, including “pangolin, snake and swan”. Another photo showed a dish which was described by Ms Lin – who could face ten years in prison under Chinese law - as “pangolin-blood fried rice”, along with images of live caged owls and pangolin. he rice dish was described as “very special” in her posts, according to the Southern Metropolis Daily newspaper. A soup of pangolin and caterpillar fungus – an expensive and highly sought after ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine – was “very delicious”, Ms Lin was reported to have said. She was detained by police in her home town of Shenzhen, in China’s south, the city’s Urban Management Bureau said in a post on its verified social media account on Tuesday. “The forestry sub-branch of Shenzhen Police will harshly crack down against and investigate thoroughly any criminal and law-breaking behaviour relating to wildlife,” the bureau added. he social media postings, which were made in 2011 and 2012, were recently deleted after web-users shared them widely, branding the poster “Pangolin Princess”. They were highlighted on the Chinese Internet after an investigation was launched last week into a lavish banquet of pangolin meat that was allegedly held by officials in Guizhou province, which is also in China’s south. he meat of the nocturnal creature is seen as a delicacy by some in China, but Beijing banned the trade in pangolins more than ten years ago, amid fears that the insect-eating animal was being hunted to extinction. Swans are also protected in China. Google has been raising awareness to the pangolin , the world's most trafficked animal, with its latest doodle. Additional reporting by Christine Wei

A woman who was nicknamed “Pangolin Princess” in China after she posted online images of various cooked wildlife that she had eaten has been held by police, authorities said on Tuesday.

Among the dishes posted by the woman, who was named Ms Lin by authorities, was a soup made up of meat from eight different animals, including “pangolin, snake and swan”.

Another photo showed a dish which was described by Ms Lin – who could face ten years in prison under Chinese law - as “pangolin-blood fried rice”, along with images of live caged owls and pangolin.