Monkeys display evidence of self-awareness in mirror test
Monkeys display evidence of self-awareness in mirror test


A breakthrough in teaching monkeys to recognise themselves in the mirror may change our understanding of the degree of self-awareness in the animal kingdom.

A team of scientists in China has successfully trained male rhesus monkeys to pass the mirror self-recognition (MSR) test, a standard measure of self-awareness.

The research suggests that bodily self-consciousness may be a cognitive ability present in many more species than previously thought.

Scroll down for video

A team of scientists in China have successfully trained male rhesus monkeys to pass the mirror self-recognition (MSR) test, a standard measure of self-awareness

THE FINDINGS Rhesus monkeys can use mirrors to find hidden objects like food, but do not normally display mirror self-recognition MSR, a standard measure of self-awareness. The Chinese team used a laser pointer to train three monkeys to accurately target a mirror image. The trained monkeys all subsequently passed the standard face mark test for MSR, both while in the test chair and also back in their cages. The research suggests that bodily self-consciousness may be a cognitive ability present in many more species than previously thought.

Mirror self-recognition (MSR) is only thought to be found in humans and a few species of great apes, according to the study.

Rhesus monkeys can use mirrors to find hidden objects like food, but do not normally display MSR.

Researchers have been unable to explain why this is the case and one team in China decided to try and establish whether they could be trained to.

And the report, published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, seems to show promise.

Mu-ming Poo, a neurobiologist at the Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, and his colleagues devised a training regime to put male rhesus monkeys to the test.

The team used a laser pointer to train three monkeys to accurately target a mirror image.

The monkeys were seated in a specially designed chair with their heads held in place by soft rubber balls.

The researchers shone laser on to the balls themselves and then on to boards, with the spot of light visible only in a mirror in front of the monkey.

Each time the monkey correctly pinpointed the location of the light, they were rewarded with a food treat.

After several weeks of training, the same laser light was shone on to the monkey's faces - a location not used in training.

All three trained monkeys touched the area of their faces where the light spot hit, with this again only visible in the mirror in front of them.

Researchers shone laser on to the balls themselves and then on to boards, with the spot of light visible only in a mirror in front of the monkey. Each time the monkey correctly pinpointed the location of the light, they were rewarded with a food treat.

The trained monkeys all subsequently passed the standard face mark test for MSR, both while in the test chair and also back in their cages.

Diana Reiss is a cognitive psychologist at Hunter College in New York, and has previously administered the MSR test to dolphins and Asian.

Speaking to the journal Science, she said: 'It's a really interesting paper because it shows not only what the monkeys can't do, but what it takes for them to succeed.'

'The training seems to switch on a light bulb in the monkeys.'