12 Countries With The Most Unfilled Jobs
12 Countries With The Most Unfilled Jobs
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock When employers seek to fill open positions within their organizations, they post ads in various places online and sometimes in classifieds. They let it be known among contacts and other employees that they are looking for new talent and usually the role is filled and the want ads come down. But if they don’t fulfill the gaps in their organizations with worthy candidates, those job postings stay up. Recently we asked Indeed.com , a massive online jobs platform with more than 16 million listings worldwide, which countries had the highest percentage of jobs that went unfilled for more than about two months. The company came back to us with some figures, comparing the results of 2016 and 2015, which you can view in our slideshow below. 12 Countries With The Most Unfilled Jobs "Job postings that stay open over 60 days are an indicator that employers are leaving roles open for an extended period,” said Daniel Culbertson, an economist with Indeed.com. “This may be for a variety of reasons, including that employers aren't finding the talent they need, that they're hiring multiple people into the roles, or that they don't have a lot of pressure to fill the roles." Looking at the results of the top 12 countries that had the most jobs postings stay up for more than 60 days, the bottom of the list is China. In China in 2016, only 0.9% of job listings remained up for more than that amount of time. And that’s an improvement over the prior year, in which 1.4% of listings stayed up for 60 days or more. Above China, in 11th place, was Russia, with only 2% of listings lingering on the jobs board in 2016, followed by Brazil with 7.7%. Japan and Italy follow suit with 11.2% and 11.9%, respectively, of jobs that remain listed for 60 days or more. Near the top of the list, starting in third place, is Germany, with 21.4% of jobs remaining unfilled for the 60-day-or-more time period, followed by Canada with 22.3%. The country with the highest percentage of lingering job postings is the United States, with 27.5%.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

When employers seek to fill open positions within their organizations, they post ads in various places online and sometimes in classifieds. They let it be known among contacts and other employees that they are looking for new talent and usually the role is filled and the want ads come down.

But if they don’t fulfill the gaps in their organizations with worthy candidates, those job postings stay up.

Recently we asked Indeed.com, a massive online jobs platform with more than 16 million listings worldwide, which countries had the highest percentage of jobs that went unfilled for more than about two months. The company came back to us with some figures, comparing the results of 2016 and 2015, which you can view in our slideshow below.

"Job postings that stay open over 60 days are an indicator that employers are leaving roles open for an extended period,” said Daniel Culbertson, an economist with Indeed.com. “This may be for a variety of reasons, including that employers aren't finding the talent they need, that they're hiring multiple people into the roles, or that they don't have a lot of pressure to fill the roles."

Looking at the results of the top 12 countries that had the most jobs postings stay up for more than 60 days, the bottom of the list is China. In China in 2016, only 0.9% of job listings remained up for more than that amount of time. And that’s an improvement over the prior year, in which 1.4% of listings stayed up for 60 days or more.

Above China, in 11th place, was Russia, with only 2% of listings lingering on the jobs board in 2016, followed by Brazil with 7.7%. Japan and Italy follow suit with 11.2% and 11.9%, respectively, of jobs that remain listed for 60 days or more.

Near the top of the list, starting in third place, is Germany, with 21.4% of jobs remaining unfilled for the 60-day-or-more time period, followed by Canada with 22.3%. The country with the highest percentage of lingering job postings is the United States, with 27.5%.

But why do some countries have more unfilled jobs than others and why does it matter? Says Culbertson: "In general, we find that economies that have been rebounding from the economic crisis in recent years have greater employer demand as represented by job postings staying open longer. Meanwhile, economies that have faced a slowing of economic growth, such as Italy, Brazil, Japan, and Russia, appear lower on the list. China is an interesting case, because although its economy has slowed, it has remained relatively strong. The fewer open positions may have more to do with open positions being filled."

Follow me on Twitter @KarstenStrauss

Follow me on LinkedIn