Kendall Jenner and ASAP Rocky Step Out Again, Continue to Play With Our Emotions
Kendall Jenner and ASAP Rocky Step Out Again, Continue to Play With Our Emotions
Mere months after eating sushi near each other at Nobu, Kendall Jenner and ASAP Rocky have reentered the national discussion with another confirmed instance of being in each other's general vicinity. Jenner reportedly "stepped out" with Rocky in New York City Friday at 1 Oak, where the illustrious  says Jenner had a NYFW DJ obligation. Jenner and Rocky showed up with a "large group" of friends, including Bella Hadid and Hailey Baldwin. "ASAP was at the table next to the DJ booth as Kendall spun all night," one alleged source said . "They all danced the night away and had an amazing time." The 1 Oak also reportedly saw pop-ins that night from Kylie Jenner, Tyga, Tyler, the Creator , Paris Hilton, and somehow not you or I. Last month, the two were seen by engaging in some flea market shopping together in Paris. Their most celebrated spotting, however, is arguably that aforementioned sushi meet-up. As boldly proclaimed back in December, Jenner and Rocky were reportedly "turning into something more serious," whatever that means. As far back as August of last year, so-called reports were circulating—including another one from —about how Jenner and Rocky's relationship was very much the "real deal." One source said at the time that Jenner and Rocky were in fact "full-on dating," a style of dating the source confirmed involves an attempt by one or more parties to go "the extra mile."

Mere months after eating sushi near each other at Nobu, Kendall Jenner and ASAP Rocky have reentered the national discussion with another confirmed instance of being in each other's general vicinity. Jenner reportedly "stepped out" with Rocky in New York City Friday at 1 Oak, where the illustrious Us Weekly says Jenner had a NYFW DJ obligation.

Jenner and Rocky showed up with a "large group" of friends, including Bella Hadid and Hailey Baldwin. "ASAP was at the table next to the DJ booth as Kendall spun all night," one alleged source said. "They all danced the night away and had an amazing time." The 1 Oak also reportedly saw pop-ins that night from Kylie Jenner, Tyga, Tyler, the Creator, Paris Hilton, and somehow not you or I.

Last month, the two were seen by People engaging in some flea market shopping together in Paris. Their most celebrated spotting, however, is arguably that aforementioned sushi meet-up. As TMZ boldly proclaimed back in December, Jenner and Rocky were reportedly "turning into something more serious," whatever that means.

As far back as August of last year, so-called reports were circulating—including another one from Us Weekly—about how Jenner and Rocky's relationship was very much the "real deal." One source said at the time that Jenner and Rocky were in fact "full-on dating," a style of dating the source confirmed involves an attempt by one or more parties to go "the extra mile."