Our Readers’ Favorite Romantic Movies
Our Readers’ Favorite Romantic Movies
I don’t know if it’s the mood of the times or just the mood of Times readers, but based on a highly unscientific (and endlessly fascinating) survey that started last week, the best movie romances (so far) of the 21st century serve the bitter with the sweet, the melancholy with the moonstruck. When I posed the question on Facebook last week , I dropped the names of a few possible candidates, including “ Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind ” and, in the hope of starting some trouble, “ Love, Actually .” With a few notable exceptions — I was glad to see someone standing up for the first “Bridget Jones” movie and share affection for “Crazy, Stupid, Love” — readers gravitated more toward melodrama than whimsy, and favored stories of loss and longing rather than happily ever after. Trailer: ‘Crazy, Stupid, Love’ A preview of the film.      It’s striking how many of the great love stories of our era are really breakup stories, meditations on love’s mutability rather than its permanence. Even “La La Land,” the current romantic conversation piece (and Oscar favorite) is about (spoiler alert, I guess) a relationship that can’t survive the pull of professional ambition and the play of chance. The film “ 500 Days of Summer ,” which several of you mentioned, is also about a romance that doesn’t quite work out. The same is true of “ Blue Is the Warmest Color ” and “Her.” Trailer: ‘Her’ A preview of the film      The popularity of that last one surprised me, but maybe it shouldn’t have. We’re frequently told that we live on the cusp of great advances in artificial intelligence, but we already live in a state of intense daily intimacy with tiny portable screens and what or whoever is inside of them. What could be more timely or tantalizing than the fantasy of a machine with a soul, a scrambled “Pygmalion” story about a perfect mate who turns out to be too good for you? Disappointment is more satisfying than fulfillment. We like movies about great love affairs that never quite happen, as well as those that flare up and flame out. “Once” and “ Lost in Translation ” made strong showings. And it might be that lustrous images are better than sex. “Her” is a visually arresting film — a masterpiece of tasteful retro-futuristic production design if nothing else — and other favorites feature love in fancy, nostalgic dress: “ Brooklyn ,” “ Carol ,” “ In the Mood for Love .” I was gratified and somewhat startled at the range and depth of the choices, even if some predictable patterns emerged. One of these is the supremacy of Ryan Gosling as a leading man. You can’t get enough of this guy, whether he gets the girl or loses her, whether he’s dancing in “La La Land,” getting drenched in “ The Notebook ,” getting the blues in “Blue Valentine,” getting creepy in “Lars and the Real Girl” or driving in “Drive.” Hey girl, you must be an internet meme , because he’s in all your pictures. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

I don’t know if it’s the mood of the times or just the mood of Times readers, but based on a highly unscientific (and endlessly fascinating) survey that started last week, the best movie romances (so far) of the 21st century serve the bitter with the sweet, the melancholy with the moonstruck.

When I posed the question on Facebook last week, I dropped the names of a few possible candidates, including “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind” and, in the hope of starting some trouble, “Love, Actually.” With a few notable exceptions — I was glad to see someone standing up for the first “Bridget Jones” movie and share affection for “Crazy, Stupid, Love” — readers gravitated more toward melodrama than whimsy, and favored stories of loss and longing rather than happily ever after.

Video

It’s striking how many of the great love stories of our era are really breakup stories, meditations on love’s mutability rather than its permanence. Even “La La Land,” the current romantic conversation piece (and Oscar favorite) is about (spoiler alert, I guess) a relationship that can’t survive the pull of professional ambition and the play of chance. The film “500 Days of Summer,” which several of you mentioned, is also about a romance that doesn’t quite work out. The same is true of “Blue Is the Warmest Color” and “Her.”

Video

The popularity of that last one surprised me, but maybe it shouldn’t have. We’re frequently told that we live on the cusp of great advances in artificial intelligence, but we already live in a state of intense daily intimacy with tiny portable screens and what or whoever is inside of them. What could be more timely or tantalizing than the fantasy of a machine with a soul, a scrambled “Pygmalion” story about a perfect mate who turns out to be too good for you?

Disappointment is more satisfying than fulfillment. We like movies about great love affairs that never quite happen, as well as those that flare up and flame out. “Once” and “Lost in Translation” made strong showings. And it might be that lustrous images are better than sex. “Her” is a visually arresting film — a masterpiece of tasteful retro-futuristic production design if nothing else — and other favorites feature love in fancy, nostalgic dress: “Brooklyn,” “Carol,” “In the Mood for Love.”

I was gratified and somewhat startled at the range and depth of the choices, even if some predictable patterns emerged. One of these is the supremacy of Ryan Gosling as a leading man. You can’t get enough of this guy, whether he gets the girl or loses her, whether he’s dancing in “La La Land,” getting drenched in “The Notebook,” getting the blues in “Blue Valentine,” getting creepy in “Lars and the Real Girl” or driving in “Drive.” Hey girl, you must be an internet meme, because he’s in all your pictures.