An Authorised Notorious B.I.G. Documentary Is Officially In The Works
An Authorised Notorious B.I.G. Documentary Is Officially In The Works
A new documentary tentatively called is officially on its way . Naturally you're probably wondering what would separate this newest venture from past docs about Biggie (as well as 2009's feature film ). Well, as it turns out, according to this documentary is "officially authorized," and also will be made in collaboration with Biggie's mother, Voletta Wallace, as well as his estate. It will also feature all of the music that he put out before his untimely death in 1997. The narrative of the film will be built around Biggie's rise, as well as the impact he continues to have two decades after he was killed in a drive-by. His mother released a statement on the news of the biopic being produced, saying: "It brings so much joy to my heart that my son Christopher's music has made such an impact on the music community and his stories have positively inspired so many young men and women over the years and still influencing the youth all over the world today." The doc will be directed by veteran music video/film directing brothers, Emmett and Brendan Malloy , and will be co-produced by , which has worked on a number of recent music documentaries including: and is just the latest project that proves the public's fascination with the late rapper is still very much alive and well, as it comes in addition to an upcoming scripted comedy inspired by his lyrics, a true crime series based on him and 2Pac, a Johnny Depp project about the investigator in his murder case, and a supporting role in the upcoming 2Pac film .

A new documentary tentatively called Notorious B.I.G.: One More Chance is officially on its way. Naturally you're probably wondering what would separate this newest venture from past docs about Biggie (as well as 2009's feature film Notorious).

Well, as it turns out, according to The Hollywood Reporter this documentary is "officially authorized," and also will be made in collaboration with Biggie's mother, Voletta Wallace, as well as his estate. It will also feature all of the music that he put out before his untimely death in 1997. The narrative of the film will be built around Biggie's rise, as well as the impact he continues to have two decades after he was killed in a drive-by.

His mother released a statement on the news of the biopic being produced, saying:

"It brings so much joy to my heart that my son Christopher's music has made such an impact on the music community and his stories have positively inspired so many young men and women over the years and still influencing the youth all over the world today."

The doc will be directed by veteran music video/film directing brothers, Emmett and Brendan Malloy, and will be co-produced by Submarine, which has worked on a number of recent music documentaries including: Nas: Time Is Illmatic, Searching for Sugarman, and 20 Feet From Stardom.

One More Chance is just the latest project that proves the public's fascination with the late rapper is still very much alive and well, as it comes in addition to an upcoming scripted comedy inspired by his lyrics, a true crime series based on him and 2Pac, a Johnny Depp project about the investigator in his murder case, and a supporting role in the upcoming 2Pac film All Eyez on Me.