Rumor the German shepherd wins best in show
Rumor the German shepherd wins best in show
Shares               Rumor has it — literally. The 141st Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show's best in show went to a female German shepherd named Rumor, from the herding group. "It's unbelievable," Rumor's owner, Kent Boyles, said Tuesday night moments after the win was announced at Madison Square Garden in midtown Manhattan on Tuesday night.  Rumor has it! #WKCDogShow  pic.twitter.com/ijPtrrFwkV  When asked about his plans for Rumor, Boyles said, "She's going to be relaxing for a while and finding an appropriate husband. There will be puppies in the future."  Rumor is a natural! #WKCDogShow  pic.twitter.com/cGsf6cHawh   Shares                  Rumor the German shepherd wins best in show   Trump press conference fact-check: What the president got wrong and right   Man arrested after threatening 'Dylann Roof-style attack'   Man arrested for plotting to bomb Target stores   Trump to replace halted travel ban with new executive order   Russian spy ship now off Virginia coast   Judge tosses out defamation lawsuit against Bill Cosby   Russell Simmons, rabbi, imam holding 'I Am A Muslim' rally   Trump nominates Alexander Acosta as labor secretary   Britax recalls 676,000 strollers after 26 children injured   Trump cited in report finding increase in US hate groups for 2nd year in a row   Tea party gains voice in Trump's Cabinet with budget chief   VP Pence's wife aims to raise awareness about art therapy   Darrelle Revis charged with four felonies after altercation in Pittsburgh   Islamic State suicide bombing at Pakistan shrine kills 75   Flu-related doctor visits cut by 48 percent, thanks to vaccine, study finds   No, Bill Gates didn't tweet Trump will be 'one of the greatest presidents'   More arrests in connection with assassination of Kim Jong Un's half brother   In Seoul, assassination of Kim Jong Un’s half brother engrosses, doesn't amaze   Witness: 'It was her or me,' Durst said about slain friend   Lawsuit: Tiffany & Co. pushed out employee with cancer mutation   'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' Force Friday II announced for September   Matt Damon defends 'The Great Wall' against claims of whitewashing   'World News Tonight’s' David Muir on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

Rumor has it — literally.

The 141st Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show's best in show went to a female German shepherd named Rumor, from the herding group.

"It's unbelievable," Rumor's owner, Kent Boyles, said Tuesday night moments after the win was announced at Madison Square Garden in midtown Manhattan on Tuesday night.

When asked about his plans for Rumor, Boyles said, "She's going to be relaxing for a while and finding an appropriate husband. There will be puppies in the future."

The story is breaking. Please check back for updates.