This 22-year-old is already an engineer with Nasa. What have you done with your life?
This 22-year-old is already an engineer with Nasa. What have you done with your life?
She's 22 years old and is also currently working while studying at the Masschussets Institute of Technology, where she will soon graduate with a 5.0 grade point average. She told that she has aspired to be an aerospace engineer since she was a child. One day I saw a plane fly by and I just had this realisation, 'Huh, I can design planes. I’m going to be an aerospace engineer.' Her mother recognised her mathematical gifts and kept her sharp as a razor with every trip to the shops. When we would go to the grocery store, she would get me to clip coupons, put it in my coupon organiser. By the time we got to the register, I’d have to calculate the exact total, including tax. And I did that since I was six years old. Clearly, Tiera is headed for more great accomplishments.  If you go to supbowie.com , you'll find that the late David Bowie had already released Space Oddity, used by the BBC for the coverage of the moon landing. If you go to MuseumOfConceptualArt.com , you'll see that by age 22: Charles Darwin set off as ship's naturalist on a voyage to South America and the Galapagos Islands. James Joyce left his family, his church and his country for the European continent, in order to become a writer. By 22, Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget received his Ph.D., published 20 articles, and wrote a philosophical novel that outlined many of the issues he would explore during his career. Caresse Crosby became the first person to patent a brassiere, which was made of two handkerchiefs and ribbon sewn together. The Greek orator Demosthenes, orphaned at age 7, took his guardians to court when he was 22 for misusing his inheritance. He won the case. Olympic runner Herbert James Elliott, ranked by many as the greatest mile runner ever, retired undefeated at 22. U.S. swimmer Mark Spitz won a record 7 Olympic gold medals. Inventor Samuel Colt patented the Colt six-shooter revolver. Cyrus Hall McCormick invented the McCormick reaper, which allowed one man to do the work of five. Dia DiCristino survived 11 brain surgeries when she was 22. Rachel Castens broke both of her femurs in a snowboarding meeting with a tree, had titanium rods placed in each bone, and walked the next morning. (With the help of a walker, but walked all the same.) By the age of 22, Anna Ellis had been clean and sober for two years. Andrew Robinson bicycled across the United States, unsupported, to raise money for the World Wildlife Fund.                    Keep scrolling for next article

Tiera Guinn is a rocket structural design and analysis engineer for the space launch system that Boeing is currently building for Nasa.

She's 22 years old and is also currently working while studying at the Masschussets Institute of Technology, where she will soon graduate with a 5.0 grade point average.

She told WBRC News that she has aspired to be an aerospace engineer since she was a child.

One day I saw a plane fly by and I just had this realisation, 'Huh, I can design planes. I’m going to be an aerospace engineer.'

Her mother recognised her mathematical gifts and kept her sharp as a razor with every trip to the shops.

When we would go to the grocery store, she would get me to clip coupons, put it in my coupon organiser. By the time we got to the register, I’d have to calculate the exact total, including tax. And I did that since I was six years old.

Clearly, Tiera is headed for many more great accomplishments.

What were you doing age 22?

If you go to supbowie.com, you'll find that the late David Bowie had already released Space Oddity, used by the BBC for the coverage of the moon landing.

If you go to MuseumOfConceptualArt.com, you'll see that by age 22:

Charles Darwin set off as ship's naturalist on a voyage to South America and the Galapagos Islands.

James Joyce left his family, his church and his country for the European continent, in order to become a writer.

By 22, Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget received his Ph.D., published 20 articles, and wrote a philosophical novel that outlined many of the issues he would explore during his career.

Caresse Crosby became the first person to patent a brassiere, which was made of two handkerchiefs and ribbon sewn together.

The Greek orator Demosthenes, orphaned at age 7, took his guardians to court when he was 22 for misusing his inheritance. He won the case.

Olympic runner Herbert James Elliott, ranked by many as the greatest mile runner ever, retired undefeated at 22.

U.S. swimmer Mark Spitz won a record 7 Olympic gold medals.

Inventor Samuel Colt patented the Colt six-shooter revolver.

Cyrus Hall McCormick invented the McCormick reaper, which allowed one man to do the work of five.

Dia DiCristino survived 11 brain surgeries when she was 22.

Rachel Castens broke both of her femurs in a snowboarding meeting with a tree, had titanium rods placed in each bone, and walked the next morning. (With the help of a walker, but walked all the same.)

By the age of 22, Anna Ellis had been clean and sober for two years.

Andrew Robinson bicycled across the United States, unsupported, to raise money for the World Wildlife Fund.

Oh, MERCY.

More: This US politician was destroyed by a child's question about science