How to fight the horrendous battery drain bug currently plaguing iPhone users
How to fight the horrendous battery drain bug currently plaguing iPhone users
Owners of Apple’s various iPhone models have historically been the most satisfied and loyal smartphone customers in the world. The fit and finish on Apple’s iPhones is unmatched, the iOS user experience is outstanding, and Apple’s customer service is second to none. This has been the case for years and it’s largely still the case to this day, but a growing number of iPhone users is becoming increasingly frustrated due to a horrible bug that has been impacting iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus models. As you’ve no doubt read by now or even experienced yourself, there is a severe bug causing many iPhones to shut down despite still having about 30% of their charge remaining. Apple is working on a software fix but unfortunately nothing has been released at this point. There is a battery replacement program for some iPhone models , but only a small fraction of affected devices are eligible. If your iPhone isn’t eligible even though it has been shutting down at 30%, all you can do is sit and wait for Apple to issue a fix. Well, that’s actually not all you can do. Below, you’ll find a handful of battery cases and portable chargers that will help you avoid these bothersome shutdowns by keeping your iPhone’s charge above 30%. They’re all affordable, they’re all highly rated, and they’ll all tide you over until Apple finally figures out how to fix this problem. Verizon’s new $80 unlimited plan is slightly more expensive than Sprint’s $18 unlimited plan Can the iPhone 8 complete with a Galaxy S8 that looks like this? Watch Sean Spicer get lampooned once again by Melissa McCarthy on SNL

Owners of Apple’s various iPhone models have historically been the most satisfied and loyal smartphone customers in the world. The fit and finish on Apple’s iPhones is unmatched, the iOS user experience is outstanding, and Apple’s customer service is second to none. This has been the case for years and it’s largely still the case to this day, but a growing number of iPhone users is becoming increasingly frustrated due to a horrible bug that has been impacting iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus models.

As you’ve no doubt read by now or even experienced yourself, there is a severe bug causing many iPhones to shut down despite still having about 30% of their charge remaining. Apple is working on a software fix but unfortunately nothing has been released at this point. There is a battery replacement program for some iPhone models, but only a small fraction of affected devices are eligible. If your iPhone isn’t eligible even though it has been shutting down at 30%, all you can do is sit and wait for Apple to issue a fix.

Well, that’s actually not all you can do. Below, you’ll find a handful of battery cases and portable chargers that will help you avoid these bothersome shutdowns by keeping your iPhone’s charge above 30%. They’re all affordable, they’re all highly rated, and they’ll all tide you over until Apple finally figures out how to fix this problem.

iPhone 6 / 6s Battery Case, Anker Ultra Slim Extended Battery Case for iPhone 6 / 6s (4.7 inch)…: $46.99

Never Run Out 7000mAh - New Model - Backup Battery Charger Protective Case for iPhone 6 / 6s /…: $39.95

iPhone 6S Plus Battery Case , iPhone 6 Plus Battery Case - 6000mAh External Protective Charging…: $17.99

: Price too low to display

Anker Astro E1 5200mAh Candy bar-Sized Ultra Compact Portable Charger (External Battery Power B…: $15.99

Anker PowerCore 10000, One of the Smallest and Lightest 10000mAh External Batteries, Ultra-Comp…: $23.99

Villain - 20000mAh Portable Charger - with Built in LED Flash Lights and LED Display - Dual USB…: $34.99













Trending right now:

See the original version of this article on BGR.com