19 celebrities you didn't know were twins
19 celebrities you didn't know were twins


Space launches is a risky business. With rockets made up of millions of parts, operating at thousands of degrees temperature, anything can go wrong. And many a time it does. But when it comes to ISRO, there’s a sense of confidence the customers have who pay big bucks to buy space on their rockets.

PSLV-C37 Successfully launched Cartosat-2 Series Satellite along with 103 co-passenger satelliteshttps://t.co/I4jhAcLcce pic.twitter.com/LXID70aWf6 — ISRO (@isro) 15 February 2017

Today, ISRO cemented its position as a cost-effective option in the satellite launch business. The world record launch of 104 satellites is a feat that had never even been tried before, let alone being successful. But as has become customary with the Indian space agency, it was a resounding success that placed all satellites in precise orbits – in the first attempt. But how do they do it?

1. Camaraderie

Moments after the data was relayed by the fourth PS 4 stage of the successful deployment of all satellites, there was a cheer mixed with calm confidence, in the mission control at Sriharikota. The scientists of ISRO soaked in the success without any exuberance, like a psychic who already knew the outcome.

Reuters

A common thread that binds them, and one which is very evident, is the faith they have in each other’s work. Every centre director that took the mic couldn’t thank his colleagues enough for the success. The directive from the A S Kiran Kumar, Chairman ISRO is – do better than what you did the last time. And they’re feeding off this mantra. Till date, 226 satellites have been launched using the PSLV and of these 179 have been for paying foreign customers.

2. Behind the scenes

Speaking after the launch, Dr M Annadurai, Director ISAC (ISRO Satellite Centre) revealed the tight deadlines the different agencies with ISRO had to meet. Referring to the main payload Cartosat-2D, he mentioned that a repeat launch usually takes 1 year. The last Cartosat was launched on June 23. But the ISAC was asked to deliver the new satellite within three months. “On November 14, the chairman called and asked me to deliver the satellite before Jan 26. I told him we will try to give it by Jan 12. Only team ISRO could do this” he declared.

3. ISRO Standard Time

Another centre director, Tapan Misra, Director SAC (Space Applications Centre) was at his funniest after the successful launch. He said, “We have hit the first century in space that too like Virat Kohli”. He too had got a call from Chairman ISRO in November. Misra said “I remember Chairman sir called in November and told us to give the satellite systems in December – three moths cut. I thought of arguing with him initially, but thought it's no use and agreed with him. Chairman sir believed in us and we proved him right.”

ISRO

Then referring to the tight deadline Misra said, “I used to think IST means Indian Standard Time, but with Chairman Sir I have learnt it means ISRO Standard Time. Just remove 3 to 4 months to match it,” filling the mission control with cheers and claps.

4. Many firsts

While falling back on the tried and tested is usually the norm for most, ISRO does things differently. The agency isn’t averse to making changes or using different methodology while risking everything. For today’s mission, for the first time ever, a 3D printed mirror supporting structure was used in a satellite.

Don't Miss 6.9 K SHARES 24 K SHARES 25.7 K SHARES 5.5 K SHARES 5.1 K SHARES

Misra’s agency, SAC used a receiver of India’s IRNSS Navic for PSLV and also a data recorder. “We had bought a solid state recorder for Rs 45 lakh. I said we should develop one on our own. The one we used today costs in thousands and will be used in all PSLV,” he said

ISRO

For a mission so complex, ISRO had to find solutions that were unique to the complex mission. A special separation sequence had to be decided for the satellites, which also involved complex manoeuvring of the upper stage. Space had to be found within the payload fairing and new adapters developed for so many satellites.

5. Hands full

And if you think they’ll be sitting on their laurels after today’s success, you couldn’t be more wrong. In two days' time, ISRO will be testing the C25 cryogenic engine for the GSLV Mk3 for its full duration of 640 seconds. This engine will help make India self-sufficient in launching heavy communication satellites.

Three communication satellites – GSAT-9, GSAT-17 and GSAT-19 - are in different stages of completion and two of these will be launched from Sriharikota itself. By the end of the year, ISRO expects to complete building the Chandrayaan-2 mission, so that it can be launched early next year.

In the first half of this year, the GSLV Mk2 and Mk3 flights are also scheduled to take place.

Expect more proud moments this year.