Somebody left their cucumber behind after this 'Fifty Shades Darker' screening
Somebody left their cucumber behind after this 'Fifty Shades Darker' screening
Look, you've probably figured out by now that the new film hasn't received the most positive reactions from critics . But it seems some people rate it rather highly. See, a cinema staffer randomly found a cucumber lying in an aisle following a screening. SEE ALSO: Fire brigade tweets warning for couples inspired by 'Fifty Shades' The folks at the Hayden Orpheum in Sydney, Australia found the veg, snapping the photo and posted it on Facebook . "That awkward moment when you find a cucumber in the cinema after a session," the cinema wrote. While it might be easy to dismiss this as a marketing stunt, according to Alex Temesvari, the cinema's Deputy General Manager, the discovery was absolutely real. "Hand on my heart, it was actually found after our Student Night session of on Monday night (actually by me!)," he said via email. "Otherwise I would totally take credit for it being a clever marketing ploy, but honestly we're not THAT clever." And yes, people found the photo very amusing. Apart from the hygiene thing. Anyway, the cinema doesn't need some AWOL cucumber to promote the film. The sequel to is actually killing it in Australia, topping the box office and making with A$6.6 million (US$5 million) in its opening week. BONUS: Here are 6 sexy movies to watch instead of 'Fifty Shades' that are sure to put you in the mood

Look, you've probably figured out by now that the new Fifty Shades Darker film hasn't received the most positive reactions from critics. But it seems some people rate it rather highly.

See, a cinema staffer randomly found a cucumber lying in an aisle following a Fifty Shades Darker screening.

The folks at the Hayden Orpheum in Sydney, Australia found the veg, snapping the photo and posted it on Facebook. "That awkward moment when you find a cucumber in the cinema after a session," the cinema wrote.

While it might be easy to dismiss this as a marketing stunt, according to Alex Temesvari, the cinema's Deputy General Manager, the discovery was absolutely real.

"Hand on my heart, it was actually found after our Student Night session of Fifty Shades on Monday night (actually by me!)," he said via email.

"Otherwise I would totally take credit for it being a clever marketing ploy, but honestly we're not THAT clever."

And yes, people found the photo very amusing. Apart from the hygiene thing.

Anyway, the cinema doesn't need some AWOL cucumber to promote the film.

The sequel to Fifty Shades of Grey is actually killing it in Australia, topping the box office and making with A$6.6 million (US$5 million) in its opening week.