Atlanta zoo names cockroach after Patriots QB Tom Brady
Atlanta zoo names cockroach after Tom Brady
Atlanta zoo names cockroach after Tom Brady Barnwell's 5 AFC North moves: Browns get Tyrod; Steelers keep Bell Revis charged with assault, robbery in Pittsburgh Fins cut DE Williams, will try to trade LT Albert Steelers want Brown to end career in Pittsburgh Rams' Goff leveraging noted QB-training facility Jaguars pass on option for starting LT Beachum Sources: Pats' Daboll candidate for Bama OC job Can Ben Roethlisberger replicate Tom Brady's career longevity? Destination Romo: All the places Tony could go Breaking down the Patriots' free-agent options with LB Dont'a Hightower 20 plays every NFL coach should steal How Titans try to gain an advantage on offense during a timeout What will Chiefs do at No. 2 behind Alex Smith? With Kenny Britt and Eagles, a connection to consider Rams-Niners rivalry gets new twist with Sean McVay, Kyle Shanahan Uni Watch: Has the black uniform trend finally peaked? Everything you need to know about the NFL's 2017 franchise tag Franchise-tag predictions for all 32 teams Can Bears keep Alshon Jeffery without franchise tag? Cowboys' game of (franchise) tag could be years away Heartbreaker? Blowout? For Jordy Nelson, all playoff disappointments hurt Where could Adrian Peterson land if he leaves Vikings? How Adrian Peterson factors into Le'Veon Bell's contract future Brett Favre revenge: Would Packers be interested in Adrian Peterson? Ex-Ole Miss QB Kelly disinvited to combine Mock-draft consensus grows as Mel Kiper projects Myles Garrett No. 1 What is fair value for Terrelle Pryor's new contract? Packers need Clay Matthews -- plus help -- inside and outside 32 NFL players who need a change of scenery Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment ATLANTA -- More than a week after the Falcons fell victim to the biggest comeback in Super Bowl history, an Atlanta zoo has named a cockroach after Patriots quarterback Tom Brady . Zoo Atlanta says on its Facebook page that it had a bet with Rhode Island's Roger Williams Park Zoo that called for the loser to name a baby animal after the winning team's star quarterback. Both zoos figured the loser would be pretty bitter about the game, so they agreed the animal in question would be a Madagascar hissing cockroach. The zoo introduced a whole family of cockroaches in a video Monday, including a tiny Tom Brady. Brady and the Patriots came back from a 25-point deficit to defeat Atlanta 34-28 in overtime to win the team's fifth Super Bowl title. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

ATLANTA -- More than a week after the Falcons fell victim to the biggest comeback in Super Bowl history, an Atlanta zoo has named a cockroach after Patriots quarterback Tom Brady.

Editor's Picks Brady OK with fellow Pats skipping White House Tom Brady says he doesn't have a problem if some of his teammates decide not to go to the White House to celebrate New England's Super Bowl LI victory.

Zoo Atlanta says on its Facebook page that it had a bet with Rhode Island's Roger Williams Park Zoo that called for the loser to name a baby animal after the winning team's star quarterback. Both zoos figured the loser would be pretty bitter about the game, so they agreed the animal in question would be a Madagascar hissing cockroach.

The zoo introduced a whole family of cockroaches in a video Monday, including a tiny Tom Brady.

Brady and the Patriots came back from a 25-point deficit to defeat Atlanta 34-28 in overtime to win the team's fifth Super Bowl title.