Donald Trump Blasts Media and Intelligence Agencies
Donald Trump Blasts Media and Intelligence Agencies
Biography Damian Paletta @damianpaletta Damian.Paletta@wsj.com Biography Carol E. Lee @CarolELee carol.lee@wsj.com WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump leveled fresh attacks on the intelligence community and the news media Wednesday after a tumultuous few days that included the departure of his national security adviser and reports about U.S. investigations into his team’s communications with Russian authorities. Mr. Trump requested Michael Flynn’s resignation Monday night following media reports that the Justice Department warned the administration last month that U.S. intercepts contradicted Mr. Flynn’s denials that he had discussed... Most Popular Videos  Disney Cuts Ties to YouTube Superstar PewDiePie  Turkish Butcher 'Salt Bae' Has the Internet Salivating  Seoul Court Approves Arrest of Samsung Heir   Trump Defends Himself, Rejects Critics on Russia    Tokyo Recycles Old Phones to Make Olympic Medals  Most Popular Articles      Spies Keep Trump in Dark on Intelligence in Sign of Mistrust        Jared Kushner Delivers Critique of CNN to Time Warner Executive        Trump Administration Backs Off Talk of Closer Russia Ties        With $15 Left in the Bank, a Baby Boomer Makes Peace With Less        PewDiePie Says WSJ Took Anti-Semitic Content Out of Context

The resignation of National Security Adviser Mike Flynn is raising new questions, after it emerged that the Trump administration was aware last month that he misled Vice President Mike Pence about conversations he had with the Russian ambassador about U.S. sanctions. Photo: Getty Images

WASHINGTON—President Donald Trump leveled fresh attacks on the intelligence community and the news media Wednesday after a tumultuous few days that included the departure of his national security adviser and reports about U.S. investigations into his team’s communications with Russian authorities.

Mr. Trump requested Michael Flynn’s resignation Monday night following media reports that the Justice Department warned the administration last month that U.S. intercepts contradicted Mr. Flynn’s denials that he had discussed...