Have we finally arrived at the era of willing self-destruction in the FA Cup? | Paul Wilson

Contact author    ho needs a winter break when the FA Cup makes a perfectly good substitute? Everton are sunning themselves in Dubai, Liverpool re-enacting a pre-season (Jürgen Klopp’s words) at La Manga, while Sunderland have been testing their supporters’ patience by flying to New York for a team-bonding session. All of these jollies and a few more were made possible by early exits from the FA Cup . Given that other teams might suffer should Liverpool come back with batteries charged and deliver on their promise to win every one of their remaining games, or sub-zero US temperatures wake up Sunderland sufficiently to escape relegation, it is a trend that may catch on. Everyone knows that the Premier League is where the money is and the romance of the FA Cup is strictly limited in its appeal to a narrow band of clubs with little chance of winning anything else, and a precedent has been set that could be even more damaging than the now accepted habit of fielding weakened teams. With the prospect of a fortnight off and a rest in sunny climes at the back of their minds, as opposed to crowding the fixture list through further rounds or replays, it would hardly be the greatest surprise were even seasoned professionals to subconsciously ease up in future rounds of the Cup. At least, with the strength of most Premier League squads, making a few changes will not necessarily lead to a loss of enthusiasm or an acceptance of defeat. A few changes being the operative phrase there. Not nine, as Klopp did when losing at home to Wolves , an occasion when Liverpool surrendered every possible advantage to their opponents by fielding an unrecognisably callow side which had all too clearly never played as a team before. And certainly not 10, the number of new players Garry Monk introduced in what amounted to an insult to the travelling fans as Leeds slid out at the fourth-round stage at Sutton United . “Blame me, I got it wrong,” Monk said afterwards. Klopp was similarly contrite: “We weren’t as good as I thought we would be. Sorry about that.” Even worse than managerial crocodile tears was the subsequent reporting of those two games in the last round. Sutton and Wolves were described as giantkillers, no less. That expression should be banned forthwith unless an inspection of team sheets proves it permissible, whether or not the BBC wishes to maintain its Canute-like stand in continuing to insist that FA Cup upsets must by definition be astonishing. They just about still can, though it is coming to the stage where the allegedly slain giant needs a doctor’s note or a certificate of authenticity to prove it. A team from the Championship that makes 10 changes for a Cup tie can no longer be referred to as a giant. Nor can one like Liverpool, who fielded players against Wolves who were so far from the normal first-team selection that Paul Lambert’s side was the more experienced at Anfield , even though the visitors made seven changes themselves. In these particular circumstances the resultant “shocks” are far from unexpected, and the time-honoured giantkilling tag is woefully inappropriate. A team making so many changes is asking to be dispatched, surely, so mercy-killing might be a more accurate description. We have arrived in the era of FA Cup euthanasia, where bigger teams beg smaller ones to put them out of their misery. Bear this in mind at the weekend when the fifth-round ties are played, particularly the ones at Millwall and Middlesbrough. Leicester must be wondering what on earth they are doing to still be in this competition with so much else going on, particularly after making so many changes in their replay against Derby. That one game, in which Leicester made 10 changes and Derby eight , will probably go down in history as the beginning of the end for replays, if not the FA Cup itself, though in mitigation the two sides that took the pitch were quite well matched and spectators were not completely short-changed. This time, with relegation and the Champions League to worry about, even a manager as principled as Claudio Ranieri could be forgiven for not wanting to continue to fight on a third front. Aitor Karanka faces a similar dilemma, although perhaps not quite the same fixture overload as Middlesbrough themselves have found time for a trip to Spain, when Oxford are the visitors to the Riverside. Boro are a point above Leicester, two above the relegation zone, and the next month brings potentially season-defining games against Crystal Palace, Stoke and Sunderland before the visit of Manchester United. Karanka will probably not make too many changes, Boro have enough players to deal with one game per week, yet the prospect of reaching the quarter-finals might not motivate the home players as much as their rivals. The games at Wolves, Fulham, Huddersfield and Blackburn look like old-fashioned Cup ties on paper, though in each case the four Premier League managers are likely to name sides strong enough to make it through. It would be a surprise were Pep Guardiola or José Mourinho, both in their first seasons in Manchester, to end up apologising Klopp-style for their own weak selections, and though both are involved in Europe they have the squads to cope. So do Chelsea, who are not in Europe. It is important to remember Antonio Conte is in his first season in England too and beyond giving John Terry a game at Wolves the manager would be unlikely, indeed unwise, to tinker too much with a formula that appears capable of producing results and strong performances week after week. This could be the year Chelsea win the Double. Who is going to stop them? Burnley, too, are going well and in no obvious need of a rest, and if non-league Lincoln City pull off a shock at Turf Moor it will be a bona fide giantkilling, no questions asked. As long as Sean Dyche has not put out the development squad or the youth team, which on the balance of probabilities seems a remote likelihood. While Burnley may not be everyone’s idea of giants, they are solid mid-table Premier League these days, which is easily enough. And the Imps, National League leaders, are everyone’s idea of underdogs, or would be if they were not currently being undermined by the even more minnowish Sutton, 15 places below them. Mighty Arsenal at Gander Green Lane really is the sort of improbability that has made the FA Cup famous. Given all the levelling factors, including the unfamiliarity of the ground, Arsenal’s engagement with Bayern Munich in the Champions League and the Gunners’ supposed reluctance to roll up their sleeves and get stuck in even if Arsène Wenger names a strong side, an upset could be on the cards here. If so, for the FA Cup’s sake, let’s hope it is a real one. We have all had enough of fake news. We really do not need the world’s oldest football competition chipping in with fake upsets.                                         Topics  FA Cup   Lincoln   Sutton United   Leeds United   Liverpool

Who needs a winter break when the FA Cup makes a perfectly good substitute? Everton are sunning themselves in Dubai, Liverpool re-enacting a pre-season (Jürgen Klopp’s words) at La Manga, while Sunderland have been testing their supporters’ patience by flying to New York for a team-bonding session.

All of these jollies and a few more were made possible by early exits from the FA Cup. Given that other teams might suffer should Liverpool come back with batteries charged and deliver on their promise to win every one of their remaining games, or sub-zero US temperatures wake up Sunderland sufficiently to escape relegation, it is a trend that may catch on.

Everyone knows that the Premier League is where the money is and the romance of the FA Cup is strictly limited in its appeal to a narrow band of clubs with little chance of winning anything else, and a precedent has been set that could be even more damaging than the now accepted habit of fielding weakened teams.

Wolves stun Liverpool after Richard Stearman kickstarts FA Cup upset Read more

With the prospect of a fortnight off and a rest in sunny climes at the back of their minds, as opposed to crowding the fixture list through further rounds or replays, it would hardly be the greatest surprise were even seasoned professionals to subconsciously ease up in future rounds of the Cup.

At least, with the strength of most Premier League squads, making a few changes will not necessarily lead to a loss of enthusiasm or an acceptance of defeat. A few changes being the operative phrase there. Not nine, as Klopp did when losing at home to Wolves, an occasion when Liverpool surrendered every possible advantage to their opponents by fielding an unrecognisably callow side which had all too clearly never played as a team before.

And certainly not 10, the number of new players Garry Monk introduced in what amounted to an insult to the travelling fans as Leeds slid out at the fourth-round stage at Sutton United. “Blame me, I got it wrong,” Monk said afterwards. Klopp was similarly contrite: “We weren’t as good as I thought we would be. Sorry about that.”

Even worse than managerial crocodile tears was the subsequent reporting of those two games in the last round. Sutton and Wolves were described as giantkillers, no less. That expression should be banned forthwith unless an inspection of team sheets proves it permissible, whether or not the BBC wishes to maintain its Canute-like stand in continuing to insist that FA Cup upsets must by definition be astonishing. They just about still can, though it is coming to the stage where the allegedly slain giant needs a doctor’s note or a certificate of authenticity to prove it.

A team from the Championship that makes 10 changes for a Cup tie can no longer be referred to as a giant. Nor can one like Liverpool, who fielded players against Wolves who were so far from the normal first-team selection that Paul Lambert’s side was the more experienced at Anfield, even though the visitors made seven changes themselves.

Sutton’s dream run continues after Jamie Collins penalty topples Leeds Read more

In these particular circumstances the resultant “shocks” are far from unexpected, and the time-honoured giantkilling tag is woefully inappropriate. A team making so many changes is asking to be dispatched, surely, so mercy-killing might be a more accurate description. We have arrived in the era of FA Cup euthanasia, where bigger teams beg smaller ones to put them out of their misery.

Bear this in mind at the weekend when the fifth-round ties are played, particularly the ones at Millwall and Middlesbrough. Leicester must be wondering what on earth they are doing to still be in this competition with so much else going on, particularly after making so many changes in their replay against Derby. That one game, in which Leicester made 10 changes and Derby eight, will probably go down in history as the beginning of the end for replays, if not the FA Cup itself, though in mitigation the two sides that took the pitch were quite well matched and spectators were not completely short-changed. This time, with relegation and the Champions League to worry about, even a manager as principled as Claudio Ranieri could be forgiven for not wanting to continue to fight on a third front.

Aitor Karanka faces a similar dilemma, although perhaps not quite the same fixture overload as Middlesbrough themselves have found time for a trip to Spain, when Oxford are the visitors to the Riverside. Boro are a point above Leicester, two above the relegation zone, and the next month brings potentially season-defining games against Crystal Palace, Stoke and Sunderland before the visit of Manchester United. Karanka will probably not make too many changes, Boro have enough players to deal with one game per week, yet the prospect of reaching the quarter-finals might not motivate the home players as much as their rivals.

The games at Wolves, Fulham, Huddersfield and Blackburn look like old-fashioned Cup ties on paper, though in each case the four Premier League managers are likely to name sides strong enough to make it through. It would be a surprise were Pep Guardiola or José Mourinho, both in their first seasons in Manchester, to end up apologising Klopp-style for their own weak selections, and though both are involved in Europe they have the squads to cope.

So do Chelsea, who are not in Europe. It is important to remember Antonio Conte is in his first season in England too and beyond giving John Terry a game at Wolves the manager would be unlikely, indeed unwise, to tinker too much with a formula that appears capable of producing results and strong performances week after week. This could be the year Chelsea win the Double. Who is going to stop them?

Burnley, too, are going well and in no obvious need of a rest, and if non-league Lincoln City pull off a shock at Turf Moor it will be a bona fide giantkilling, no questions asked. As long as Sean Dyche has not put out the development squad or the youth team, which on the balance of probabilities seems a remote likelihood.

While Burnley may not be everyone’s idea of giants, they are solid mid-table Premier League these days, which is easily enough. And the Imps, National League leaders, are everyone’s idea of underdogs, or would be if they were not currently being undermined by the even more minnowish Sutton, 15 places below them.

Mighty Arsenal at Gander Green Lane really is the sort of improbability that has made the FA Cup famous. Given all the levelling factors, including the unfamiliarity of the ground, Arsenal’s engagement with Bayern Munich in the Champions League and the Gunners’ supposed reluctance to roll up their sleeves and get stuck in even if Arsène Wenger names a strong side, an upset could be on the cards here. If so, for the FA Cup’s sake, let’s hope it is a real one. We have all had enough of fake news. We really do not need the world’s oldest football competition chipping in with fake upsets.