Ex-UFC champion Brock Lesnar retires from MMA competition
Ex-champ Lesnar tells UFC he's done fighting
Ex-champ Lesnar tells UFC he's done fighting Holly Holm seeking to appeal UFC 208 defeat 3 Related Women's P4P rankings: Holm, Rousey slip away De Randamie beats Holm for featherweight belt Justino: 'I know they made this division for me' Thomson hasn't forgotten Chandler entering Bellator return Vote: Will Mayweather-McGregor happen? Koscheck talks Bellator 172, state of MMA 2 Related Former champ Silva takes decision from Brunson U.S. Congressman looking to expand boxing's Ali Act to MMA NSAC to look at McGregor discipline again Mayweather: Not close to McGregor superfight 1 Related Atlas: If I trained McGregor to face Mayweather Evans receives medical clearance for UFC 209 Sources: UFC eyes Jedrzejczyk-Andrade title bout Megan Anderson feels Cyborg fight doesn't make sense right now McGregor training partner to headline UFC London Former champ Silva takes decision from Brunson De Randamie beats Holm for featherweight belt Waterson vs. Namajunas set for UFC Fight Night on April 15 Swanson gets Lobov next in UFC event in April UFC lightweight Beneil Dariush concerned for others about recent travel ban White: Aldo-Holloway unification bout 'done deal' Cheat Sheet: Holm fights to build legacy at UFC 208 2 Related Betting guide for UFC 208 De Randamie's accuracy could be a problem for Holm MacDonald-Daley bout to headline Bellator 179 Cheat Sheet: Still hungry, Silva returns to snap winless streak 1 Related Divisional rankings: Middleweight Dantas to defend Bellator title vs. Caldwell in April Miocic-Dos Santos set for UFC 211 fight 'Korean Zombie' returns with KO over Bermudez Instant Awesome: MMA fighter uses "Matrix"-like move in a fight UFC fighter Matt Brown reconsidering his future in the Octagon Browne to stick with Tarverdyan as coach, discusses 'tough year' 3 Related Browne-Lewis heavyweight bout moved to Feb. 19 ESPN's MMA divisional rankings: Heavyweight UFC's White says Rousey is 'probably done' Evans middleweight debut likely set for UFC 209 Former UFC heavyweight champion Brock Lesnar informs the UFC that he is done fighting.  Check out some of his career highlights. (1:37) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment MMA columnist for ESPN.com Analyst for "MMA Live" Covered MMA for Las Vegas Sun Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Former UFC heavyweight champion Brock Lesnar , who is currently suspended from competition, has informed the promotion that his professional fighting career is over. UFC officials confirmed the news to ESPN.com on Tuesday following an initial report by MMAFighting.com . The United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) also confirmed it was aware of Lesnar's retirement. Because of the retirement, Lesnar is no longer included in USADA's testing pool under the UFC's anti-doping program. Last month, Lesnar, 39, was handed a one-year suspension from the USADA because of a pair of failed drug tests in 2016. The Nevada State Athletic Commission also suspended Lesnar for one year. The suspensions do not affect his professional wrestling career in WWE. Lesnar would have been eligible to return to active competition in July, but his USADA suspension freezes with this announcement. Should Lesnar (5-3) opt to resume his UFC career at any point, he would be required to fulfill the remaining five months of that suspension. Lesnar has not commented publicly on his retirement. A former NCAA Division I national champion wrestler, Lesnar came out of a nearly five-year retirement to face Mark Hunt at UFC 200 last July in Las Vegas. Lesnar won the fight via unanimous decision, but it was later changed to a no-contest after the positive tests were revealed. Lesnar tested positive for clomiphene, an estrogen blocker. He denied knowingly taking the banned substance. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Former UFC heavyweight champion Brock Lesnar informs the UFC that he is done fighting. Check out some of his career highlights. (1:37)

Former UFC heavyweight champion Brock Lesnar, who is currently suspended from competition, has informed the promotion that his professional fighting career is over.

UFC officials confirmed the news to ESPN.com on Tuesday following an initial report by MMAFighting.com.

The United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) also confirmed it was aware of Lesnar's retirement. Because of the retirement, Lesnar is no longer included in USADA's testing pool under the UFC's anti-doping program.

Currently suspended for using a banned substance, Brock Lesnar has told the UFC he's retiring from professional fighting. Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC/Getty Images

Last month, Lesnar, 39, was handed a one-year suspension from the USADA because of a pair of failed drug tests in 2016. The Nevada State Athletic Commission also suspended Lesnar for one year. The suspensions do not affect his professional wrestling career in WWE.

Lesnar would have been eligible to return to active competition in July, but his USADA suspension freezes with this announcement. Should Lesnar (5-3) opt to resume his UFC career at any point, he would be required to fulfill the remaining five months of that suspension.

Lesnar has not commented publicly on his retirement.

A former NCAA Division I national champion wrestler, Lesnar came out of a nearly five-year retirement to face Mark Hunt at UFC 200 last July in Las Vegas. Lesnar won the fight via unanimous decision, but it was later changed to a no-contest after the positive tests were revealed.

Lesnar tested positive for clomiphene, an estrogen blocker. He denied knowingly taking the banned substance.