NDIS debate: Pyne says Government has 'no intention' of increasing taxes to fund program



NDIS debate: Pyne says Government has 'no intention' of increasing taxes to fund program

Updated

Senior Coalition Minister Christopher Pyne says the Government has no "absolutely no desire or intention" to increase taxes to help pay for the National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS).

His comments came less than 24 hours after Finance Minister Mathias Cormann floated the idea, with the Senate crossbench remaining opposed to the Government's omnibus savings bill.

Treasurer Scott Morrison has vowed to redirect $3.1 billion in savings from the bill to the NDIS, should the savings be passed.

But South Australian senator Nick Xenophon has described that as a "sledgehammer" tactic.

Labor, the Greens and the Nick Xenophon Team remain opposed to the legislation, which rolls nearly $4 billion in saving measures into the one bill, including changes to child care, family payments and paid parental leave.

"If the Labor Party continues to stand in the way of fixing the budget mess they left behind, then there comes a day when the only way you can repair the budget is through tax increases," Mr Cormann had told Lateline.

But Mr Pyne said the Finance Minister's comments were merely stating "the bleeding obvious", and ruled out any increase in taxes to pay for the NDIS.

"We have absolutely no intention to increase taxes," he said.

"We are not increasing taxes, he has made a blinding statement of the obvious that if you are going to increase spending, you need to do it through savings measures."

Pyne: Government willing to compromise

Mr Pyne indicated the Government was willing to compromise on aspects of the omnibus savings bill with the crossbench.

The package includes $1.6 billion in extra funding for child care and more than $3 billion in increased payments, along with almost $8 billion in welfare spending cuts.

"I'm a great believer in negotiation," he said.

"Good governments change their positions, good governments negotiate with the Senate crossbench that has been given to us by the Australian people.

"Malcolm Turnbull's approach is to talk to the crossbenchers and negotiation with them is much more sensible than saying, 100 per cent of nothing is what we're going to end up with."

Senator Xenophon, who controls three votes in the Upper House, said he was supportive of childcare subsidies, but did not believe it should come at the expense of cutting family tax benefits and paid parental leave.

Without the support of the three Nick Xenophon Team senators from South Australia, the bill now needs the support of the Greens to pass the Upper House — which appears unlikely.

'A penetrating glimpse of the obvious'

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said on Wednesday raising taxes to pay for the NDIS was "a penetrating glimpse of the obvious".

"We have a solemn obligation to the nation, to our children and our grandchildren, to live within our means," he said.

The mixed messages on tax increases come amid a political fight over the funding of the $22 billion scheme, with the Coalition accusing Labor of leaving a multi-billion-dollar budget black hole.

Mr Turnbull has accused Labor of leaving the NDIS short of money while in office; a claim the opposition has rejected.

Labor established the NDIS and is determined to not only defend its legacy but counter Coalition claims it left the scheme only partially funded.

Once the NDIS is fully operational it will be one of the biggest government-funded programs after Medicare.

Topics: government-and-politics, disabilities, community-and-society, federal-parliament, canberra-2600

First posted