Ukip donor Arron Banks says he is 'sick to death' of hearing about Hillsborough tragedy which killed 96
Ukip donor Arron Banks says he is 'sick to death' of hearing about Hillsborough tragedy which killed 96
rron Banks, Ukip's biggest donor, has sparked fury after claiming he is "sick to death" of hearing about the Hillsborough disaster as he accused people of "milking a tragedy forever". Mr Banks, one of the most prominent pro-Brexit campaigners during the referendum, made the comments after Ukip leader Paul Nuttall was forced to admit a claim he lost close personal friends in the incident was false. In a series of tweets about Hillsborough Mr Banks responded to a Daily Mirror columnist who said: "If Nuttall [Ukip leader] was at Hillsborough he clearly didn't learn its most powerful lesson: Every right-wing gobs**** who lies about it gets found out." r Banks replied: "I'm sick to death of hearing about it. It was a disaster and that's it, not some sort of cultural happening." The columnist responded that he was "sorry" that Mr Banks was sick of hearing about the disaster, to which the Ukip donor replied: "No milking a tragedy forever is sick." He later added: "If a policemen opens a gate trying to help and makes a bad decision it's an accident. As for a cover up it was the 80's ...I been at some matches that were squeezed beyond belief. This could have happened anywhere anytime. "I understand that people have the need to blame others, the cover up was wrong but in overcrowded stadiums accidents happened." is remarks were criticised by Hillsborough campaigners and Charlotte Hennessey, whose father, James, died in the disaster, tweeted: "It was a completely preventable disaster caused by gross negligence that resulted in 96 people unlawfully killed. Actually." Mr Banks later added: "I didn't say there wasn't a cover up. Someone screwed up but it's still an accident and it's time to see it for what it is." He has over 18,000 followers on Twitter. is comments followed an admission by Mr Nuttall that he did not lose close personal friends in the tragedy, although he did attend the match with two of his uncles. Asked about the claims on Liverpool’s Radio City News Mr Nuttall said: "I’m sorry about that, but that is something … I haven’t put that out. That is wrong.” He later told a press officer, who offered her resignation over the error, that she could stay.

Arron Banks, Ukip's biggest donor, has sparked fury after claiming he is "sick to death" of hearing about the Hillsborough disaster as he accused people of "milking a tragedy forever".

Mr Banks, one of the most prominent pro-Brexit campaigners during the referendum, made the comments after Ukip leader Paul Nuttall was forced to admit a claim he lost close personal friends in the incident was false.

In a series of tweets about Hillsborough Mr Banks responded to a Daily Mirror columnist who said: "If Nuttall [Ukip leader] was at Hillsborough he clearly didn't learn its most powerful lesson: Every right-wing gobs**** who lies about it gets found out."