Were There Any Real Winners at the Grammys?
Were There Any Real Winners at the Grammys?
It seems as if the pop music world has spent the past 10 months getting in “Formation,” but Sunday night made one thing clear: Grammy voters prefer Adele to Beyoncé . The New York Times pop music team had discussed the possibility of Adele sweeping the major categories at the 59th annual Grammy Awards in a Popcast previewing the ceremony . It was a scenario that left the Recording Academy open to criticism that voters had been slow to acknowledge the contributions of younger black artists, preferring more classic songwriting and production. And then it came true. Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Coming soon. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy For a debriefing on a Grammy night that also featured a political statement by A Tribe Called Quest, two big podium moments for Chance the Rapper, a pantsless acceptance speech by Twenty One Pilots, a dramatic performance by Beyoncé and a Prince tribute from Bruno Mars, Mr. Caramanica was joined by the chief pop music critic, Jon Pareles; the pop music reporter Joe Coscarelli; and the pop music editor, Caryn Ganz. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK

Photo

The Popcast is hosted by Jon Caramanica, a pop music critic for The New York Times. It covers the latest in pop music criticism, trends and news.

It seems as if the pop music world has spent the past 10 months getting in “Formation,” but Sunday night made one thing clear: Grammy voters prefer Adele to Beyoncé.

The New York Times pop music team had discussed the possibility of Adele sweeping the major categories at the 59th annual Grammy Awards in a Popcast previewing the ceremony. It was a scenario that left the Recording Academy open to criticism that voters had been slow to acknowledge the contributions of younger black artists, preferring more classic songwriting and production. And then it came true.

Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Coming soon. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

For a debriefing on a Grammy night that also featured a political statement by A Tribe Called Quest, two big podium moments for Chance the Rapper, a pantsless acceptance speech by Twenty One Pilots, a dramatic performance by Beyoncé and a Prince tribute from Bruno Mars, Mr. Caramanica was joined by the chief pop music critic, Jon Pareles; the pop music reporter Joe Coscarelli; and the pop music editor, Caryn Ganz.

Email questions, thoughts and suggestions to us at popcast@nytimes.com.