23 Golden Retriever Puppies Who’ll Remind You There Are Still Good Things In This World
23 Golden Retriever Puppies Who'll Remind You There Are Still Good Things In This World
This pup who is just so, so happy to be going on a car ride:  View on Instagram This pup who is making that face that makes you scream “AWWWWWwwwwwww.”  View on Instagram This rebel pup who refuses to conform to society’s rules:  View on Instagram This pup who decided to do the most adorable photobomb:  View on Instagram This pup who just had the best snow day:  View on Instagram And this pup who would rather eat the snow than play with it:  View on Instagram This pup who is mesmerized by :  View on Instagram This pup who’d rather lay his head on a shoe than chew it up:  View on Instagram This pup who has got her bib on and is ready for dinner:  View on Instagram This pup who needs her Starbucks fix like the rest of us:  View on Instagram This pup who is trying to figure out how exactly he’s going to get this ball in his mouth:  View on Instagram This pup who just wants to give out high fives:  View on Instagram This pup who manages to look adorable even when, maybe, not having the best bath time ever:  View on Instagram This pup who is all about the belly rubs:  View on Instagram These two puppies who had to take a nap after playtime:  View on Instagram This pup who just likes to pose majestically for photos:  View on Instagram This pup who got covered in kisses thanks to her mommy:  View on Instagram This pup who is just chilling on a swing while contemplating life:  View on Instagram This pup who is enjoying a day at the lake:  View on Instagram This pup who probably got a midnight craving:  View on Instagram This pup who had way too much fun getting dirty:  View on Instagram This dapper pup who is def ready for a night out:  View on Instagram And finally, these two sweet pups who are just too cute for words:  View on Instagram   Which Puppy Is Not Like The Others?    23 Golden Retriever Puppies Who'll Remind You There...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.