9-Year-Old Mumbai School Boy Run Over By Private School Bus As His Mom Watched In Horror
9-Year-Old Mumbai School Boy Run Over By Private School Bus As His Mom Watched In Horror
9-Year-Old Mumbai School Boy Run Over By Private School Bus As His Mom Watched In Horror A school bus ran over a nine-year-old student while he was crossing the road to reach his building in Mumbai's, Nerul. Samved Taralkar, a student of NCRD Sterling School in Nerul, died on the spot. The boy had alighted from his school bus and was crossing the road to reach his building, when a speeding private bus that was ferrying children of various schools knocked him down. The accident took place right in front of the victim's mother, who was standing at the gate of her building, watching her son cross the road. Samved was rushed to Apollo Hospital in Nerul where doctors declared him brought dead. The accused, bus driver Govind Rai (21), was arrested. Investigating officer, assistant inspector Santosh Jadhav said, "The accused sped away after the incident as he might have feared that he would be beaten up by the public. He has been booked under section 304A and 279 of the IPC along with the Motor Vehicle Act under Section 184 and 134(a) (b) for rash and negligent driving causing death of the schoolboy." The boy's mother was inconsolable but yet managed to give her statement to the police, saying she saw her son being hit by the private bus while he was crossing the road. The bus driver was speeding though the spot was an intersection of four roads. She stated the bus came suddenly from the opposite lane and ran over her son while he was crossing the road to reach the building's gate where she was waiting to receive him after his school bus dropped him near the building."

A school bus ran over a nine-year-old student while he was crossing the road to reach his building in Mumbai's, Nerul.

Samved Taralkar, a student of NCRD Sterling School in Nerul, died on the spot.

TOI

The boy had alighted from his school bus and was crossing the road to reach his building, when a speeding private bus that was ferrying children of various schools knocked him down. The accident took place right in front of the victim's mother, who was standing at the gate of her building, watching her son cross the road.

Samved was rushed to Apollo Hospital in Nerul where doctors declared him brought dead. The accused, bus driver Govind Rai (21), was arrested.

Investigating officer, assistant inspector Santosh Jadhav said, "The accused sped away after the incident as he might have feared that he would be beaten up by the public.

TOI

He has been booked under section 304A and 279 of the IPC along with the Motor Vehicle Act under Section 184 and 134(a) (b) for rash and negligent driving causing death of the schoolboy."

The boy's mother was inconsolable but yet managed to give her statement to the police, saying she saw her son being hit by the private bus while he was crossing the road. The bus driver was speeding though the spot was an intersection of four roads.

She stated the bus came suddenly from the opposite lane and ran over her son while he was crossing the road to reach the building's gate where she was waiting to receive him after his school bus dropped him near the building."

Originally Published In The Times Of India

Don't Miss 56.2 K SHARES 95.2 K SHARES 29.2 K SHARES 25 K SHARES 36.8 K SHARES