ISRO's Record Breaking Satellite Launch, Jayalalithaa's Assets To Be Seized And Other Must Read Stories
ISRO's Record Breaking Launch, Jayalalithaa's Assets To Be Seized And Other Must Read Stories
ISRO's Record Breaking Satellite Launch, Jayalalithaa's Assets To Be Seized And Other Must Read Stories ISRO launched not one or two or 20 or 40 satellites, but a 104! On a single rocket! In the process, it has set a world record that will likely remain unbeaten for a long time to come. The workhorse PSLV-C37 rocket in the XL configuration lifted off the first launch pad at Sriharikota and hoisted the primary payload – Cartosat-2 satellite along with 103 nano satellites into orbit around the earth. While two of these were Indian nanosatellites the other 101 belong to foreign customers, earning the country foreign exchange. Incidentally, this was the 38th consecutive successful launch of the PSLV rocket. Read more 1. Govt May Blacklist BBC For Airing 'Grossly Erroneous' Film On Rhino Conservation Method In Kaziranga The Union environment ministry has come down heavily on BBC for airing a documentary film on the Kaziranga National Park’s rhino conservation method and said its reporting is “grossly erroneous”. The documentary claims that the forest guards have been given the power to shoot and kill anyone who they think is a threat to the rhinos. Taking a serious note of the matter, the government is also thinking about blacklisting BBC's South Asia correspondent Justin Rowlatt. Read more 2. If You Want To Make In India, We Need A Bigger Rafale Order, Dassault CEO Says India Needs At Least 200 Jets France is in discussions to assist India with its next generation Advanced Multirole Combat Aircraft (AMCA) as part of the offset obligations of the Rafale fighter jet deal, Dassault CEO Eric Trappier has said. However, a larger order of close to 200 Rafale jets would be ideal to transfer high end technology and manufacturing capabilities to India at a 'competitive level' the senior executive has said. Read more 3. Jayalalithaa's Assets Including Poes Garden Bungalow To Be Attached To Recover Rs 100 Crore Fine On Her In DA Case Former Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa was not convicted in the disproportionate assets case on Tuesday following her death last year, while all her co-accused including Sasikala was sentenced.

ISRO launched not one or two or 20 or 40 satellites, but a 104! On a single rocket! In the process, it has set a world record that will likely remain unbeaten for a long time to come.

The workhorse PSLV-C37 rocket in the XL configuration lifted off the first launch pad at Sriharikota and hoisted the primary payload – Cartosat-2 satellite along with 103 nano satellites into orbit around the earth. While two of these were Indian nanosatellites the other 101 belong to foreign customers, earning the country foreign exchange. Incidentally, this was the 38th consecutive successful launch of the PSLV rocket. Read more

1. Govt May Blacklist BBC For Airing 'Grossly Erroneous' Film On Rhino Conservation Method In Kaziranga

The Union environment ministry has come down heavily on BBC for airing a documentary film on the Kaziranga National Park’s rhino conservation method and said its reporting is “grossly erroneous”.

The documentary claims that the forest guards have been given the power to shoot and kill anyone who they think is a threat to the rhinos. Taking a serious note of the matter, the government is also thinking about blacklisting BBC's South Asia correspondent Justin Rowlatt. Read more

2. If You Want To Make In India, We Need A Bigger Rafale Order, Dassault CEO Says India Needs At Least 200 Jets

France is in discussions to assist India with its next generation Advanced Multirole Combat Aircraft (AMCA) as part of the offset obligations of the Rafale fighter jet deal, Dassault CEO Eric Trappier has said.

However, a larger order of close to 200 Rafale jets would be ideal to transfer high end technology and manufacturing capabilities to India at a 'competitive level' the senior executive has said. Read more

3. Jayalalithaa's Assets Including Poes Garden Bungalow To Be Attached To Recover Rs 100 Crore Fine On Her In DA Case

Former Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa was not convicted in the disproportionate assets case on Tuesday following her death last year, while all her co-accused including Sasikala was sentenced.

Don't Miss 1.4 K SHARES 56.2 K SHARES 95.2 K SHARES 29.2 K SHARES

However, the Supreme Court, while upholding the 2014 verdict by a trial court has ordered the seizure of Jayalalithaa's assets. This is because the trial in its verdict had slapped a fine of Rs 100 crore on her, while the co-accused were given fines of Rs 10 crores each. Read more

4. DRDO To Nearly Double The Striking Range Of BrahMos Cruise Missile Range To 450 Kilometers

India will increase the range of the supersonic BrahMos cruise missile to 450 km from the present 290 km, and a test is likely around March 10, DRDO chief S Christopher has said.

The development comes after India became a member of the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) in June 2016. Read more

5. Pakistan Might Have Used The Spy Racket Busted In Madhya Pradesh To Plan Pathankot, Uri Attacks

The Pakistani spy racket busted in Bhopal by the Madhya Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) last week might have serious implications than earlier expected.

The bogus telephone exchange which was used for parallel communication between the arrested men and their handlers in Pakistan was the medium to transfer information in indian military to across the border. Read more