What LeBron James, Tom Brady, Russell Westbrook, Tiger Woods, Nick Saban, Tim Tebow, Connor McDavid would look like with Jaromir Jagr mullets
Happy Birthday, Jaromir Jagr! Here's some mullet company
Happy Birthday, Jaromir Jagr! Here's some mullet company As per National Hockey League rules governing abus... Surveying the haul from an Alex Ovechkin hat trick How Vegas will mess with the trade deadline Key fantasy tips on every NHL team Hurricanes D attracting interest Goals race going down to the wire Coaching comes naturally to Clowe Power Rankings: Caps cruise, Blackhawks up, Habs are have nots Four stars who could be traded Top 250 fantasy hockey rankings 3 stars of the week: Jason Pominville, Jake Allen, Viktor Arvidsson Big Question: What role does fighting have in the game? Evgeny Kuznetsov caps off under-24 rankings Forecaster: Matchups, projections for Feb. 13-19 Finnish Flash still in the fast lane Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment On Wednesday, Feb. 15, as we celebrate Jaromir Jagr's 45th birthday, we are going to great lengths to honor the man, the myth and the mullet. When he broke into the league with the Pittsburgh Penguins in 1990-91, the kid from Kladno had tremendous talents, sick skills and luscious locks. And even as he toils all these years later for the Florida Panthers -- his eighth NHL team -- there's no denying his influence on generations of hockey players around the world. Which got us wondering: What would the sports world look like if his reach had extended beyond the frozen fields? What would key athletes look like after getting Jagr bombed -- getting their very own mullet makeover? Behold the answer: You're welcome. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

On Wednesday, Feb. 15, as we celebrate Jaromir Jagr's 45th birthday, we are going to great lengths to honor the man, the myth and the mullet. When he broke into the league with the Pittsburgh Penguins in 1990-91, the kid from Kladno had tremendous talents, sick skills and luscious locks. And even as he toils all these years later for the Florida Panthers -- his eighth NHL team -- there's no denying his influence on generations of hockey players around the world.

Which got us wondering: What would the sports world look like if his reach had extended beyond the frozen fields? What would key athletes look like after getting Jagr bombed -- getting their very own mullet makeover?

Behold the answer: You're welcome.

Russell Westbrook

Tim Tebow

Auston Matthews

Cristiano Ronaldo

Von Miller

Lionel Messi

Connor McDavid

LeBron James

Bryce Harper

Geno Auriemma

Tom Brady

Odell Beckham Jr.

Roger Federer

Phil Mickelson

Nick Saban

Steve Spurrier

Jim Harbaugh

Paul Finebaum

Joe Maddon