Tesco Thailand introduces special lady parking zones
Tesco Thailand introduces special lady parking zones


Tesco stores in Thailand have introduced special 'lady parking' zones in areas close to the shops for their female customers.

The pink-coloured zones are clearly signposted, and one witness claimed staff told her the specially designated areas were created to allow women to park 'without making men angry'.

Only women are allowed to use the special pink zones after customers expressed fear they could face attack if they were too far away from the store. Several other major retailers in Thailand have introduced similar systems.

Tesco stores in Thailand have introduced special Lady Parking zones exclusively for women

Frankfurt Airport had earlier introduced a similar parking area for their female patrons

Tesco told MailOnline: 'As is the case for a number of retailers in Thailand, we provide female customers with dedicated parking bays close to the store entrance.

'These bays are designed to help customers who travel alone and are concerned about safety. We’ve received positive feedback from customers about the initiative.'

The company also as areas for the disabled and mothers travelling with young children.

Last year, authorities in Frankfurt Airport caused uproar after they introduced a similar scheme for their female patrons.

According to airport authorities, the new bays offer 'quick, safe and convenient from your parking to the terminal.'

Airport officials said the bays are 'bigger, nicer and close to the terminals'.

They added: 'This is our exclusive parking offer at Frankfurt Airport for women only. With new and special designed parking areas, which are colour-coded and easy to find.'

Worse still for people striving for equality, the Ladies Parking section at the airport has bigger parking bays insinuating they require less skill to manoeuvre their vehicle safely into the parking spot.

Last year, Tesco Lotus was cricticised over a controversial advertisement showing a maid being slapped across the face by a rich looking woman.

During the ad, a housemaid drops a plate and displeases the homeowner.

The ad claimed the woman would not have been angry if the only thing dropped were 'smashing-prices promotion' crisps.