Want To Boycott Trump-Friendly Companies? These Apps Aim To Assist You
Want To Boycott Trump-Friendly Companies? These Apps Aim To Assist You
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Renee Morad       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Demonstrators hold up a signs outside the Trump International Hotel during a protest against U.S. President Donald Trump's executive order blocking visitors from seven predominantly Muslim nations in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Sunday, Jan. 29, 2017.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg Many U.S. corporations are participating in an active dialogue about whether or not they support Donald Trump, and it’s rattling the consumer marketplace. Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank said in a recent CNBC interview that he sees Trump as a “real asset for the country” because of his pro-business approach, prompting celebrity athlete endorsers like Stephen Curry, Misty Copeland and Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson to publicly criticize his praise. Nordstrom dropped Ivanka Trump’s brand, Donald Trump tweeted about it, and then stocks climbed. And when Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz announced his plans to hire thousands of refugees, the news caused Trump critics to embrace the coffee giant (including some who were leery in the past because of the chain’s presence in Trump properties) and Trump supporters to boycott the brand. “People are realizing that they have a vote everyday with their purchasing power, and they can take a stand every single day with how they spend their money,” says Nathan Lerner, executive director at the Democratic Coalition Against Trump. Back in late November, he and his team launched the Boycott Trump app , a simple database that allows consumers to know which companies support Donald Trump. “By boycotting companies that are supporters of Trump, consumers can hurt Trump and his allies where it hurts most—their wallets,” Lerner says. To date, the Boycott Trump app has more than 325,000 users and lists about 250 companies that the app’s developers believe are pro-Trump. These include companies owned by Trump, that support Trump or have business connections with him, and even companies that sponsored the Celebrity Apprentice. Some of these companies are Gucci, which has a flagship store in the Trump Tower, Macy’s, which carried Ivanka’s clothing line, and the brand of Kanye West, who publicly expressed support for Trump in the past. The app recently landed in the top 5 U.S. lifestyle apps, alongside Tinder, Zillow and Bumble, according to App Annie. It also was the top lifestyle app in Mexico for three days in a row, beating out Tinder. While no buy-Trump apps are trending, in fact you can also use the app and others like it for a purpose the creators didn't intend: supporting Trump-friendly companies. Over the next week or so and after a big push from private donations, Lerner says the app is getting a major update. He and his team are revising the status of some companies to reflect recent actions and are adding more than a hundred more companies to avoid to the list. Lerner says this includes the Houston Texans, whose owner Robert McNair donated $2 million to pro-Trump Great America PAC, as well as Under Armour, whose CEO expressed approval of Trump, and New Balance, whose vice president of public affairs told the Wall Street Journal after Trump was elected that “things are going to move in the right direction.” The Boycott Trump app will also roll out two new features: a tool to email companies directly to voice concerns and a shortcut to easily tweet about a particular company. Another app called Buycott allows consumers to avoid certain products by scanning the barcodes of items in the store aisle and learning whether the manufacturer supports Trump. The app's "companies to avoid" include KitchenAid, which sponsored a major Trump golf tournament, New Balance and MillerCoors, due to a chairman on the board hosting a fundraiser for the Trump campaign, says Buycott’s founder Ivan Pardo. The app informs consumers about whether the products they’re about to buy are made by a company that has expressed approval of Trump or if the product’s “neutral of conflict,” Pardo explains. The company's Boycott Trump Products campaign already has more than 46,000 members. The company is also working on a Chrome extension that will be unveiled soon that will allow Trump critics to have their online shopping habits monitored. When users visit the website of a retailer, hospitality service or bank that supports Trump, they'll be alerted. “This will be especially helpful for consumers since a lot of the brands that support Trump aren’t manufacturers, but are retailers that are still stocking Trump items or banks that support him,” Pardo says. The extension will essentially work as a plug-in that completely blocks a site, points out a conflict and then suggests an alternate site that isn't known to be Trump-friendly. “We’re working to fill in the holes to make it easy to bring Trump conflicts to the forefront without much work on the consumer's part,” Pardo says.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

Many U.S. corporations are participating in an active dialogue about whether or not they support Donald Trump, and it’s rattling the consumer marketplace. Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank said in a recent CNBC interview that he sees Trump as a “real asset for the country” because of his pro-business approach, prompting celebrity athlete endorsers like Stephen Curry, Misty Copeland and Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson to publicly criticize his praise. Nordstrom dropped Ivanka Trump’s brand, Donald Trump tweeted about it, and then stocks climbed. And when Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz announced his plans to hire thousands of refugees, the news caused Trump critics to embrace the coffee giant (including some who were leery in the past because of the chain’s presence in Trump properties) and Trump supporters to boycott the brand.

“People are realizing that they have a vote everyday with their purchasing power, and they can take a stand every single day with how they spend their money,” says Nathan Lerner, executive director at the Democratic Coalition Against Trump. Back in late November, he and his team launched the Boycott Trump app, a simple database that allows consumers to know which companies support Donald Trump.

“By boycotting companies that are supporters of Trump, consumers can hurt Trump and his allies where it hurts most—their wallets,” Lerner says.

To date, the Boycott Trump app has more than 325,000 users and lists about 250 companies that the app’s developers believe are pro-Trump. These include companies owned by Trump, that support Trump or have business connections with him, and even companies that sponsored the Celebrity Apprentice. Some of these companies are Gucci, which has a flagship store in the Trump Tower, Macy’s, which carried Ivanka’s clothing line, and the brand of Kanye West, who publicly expressed support for Trump in the past.

The app recently landed in the top 5 U.S. lifestyle apps, alongside Tinder, Zillow and Bumble, according to App Annie. It also was the top lifestyle app in Mexico for three days in a row, beating out Tinder. While no buy-Trump apps are trending, in fact you can also use the app and others like it for a purpose the creators didn't intend: supporting Trump-friendly companies.

Over the next week or so and after a big push from private donations, Lerner says the app is getting a major update. He and his team are revising the status of some companies to reflect recent actions and are adding more than a hundred more companies to avoid to the list. Lerner says this includes the Houston Texans, whose owner Robert McNair donated $2 million to pro-Trump Great America PAC, as well as Under Armour, whose CEO expressed approval of Trump, and New Balance, whose vice president of public affairs told the Wall Street Journal after Trump was elected that “things are going to move in the right direction.”

The Boycott Trump app will also roll out two new features: a tool to email companies directly to voice concerns and a shortcut to easily tweet about a particular company.

Another app called Buycott allows consumers to avoid certain products by scanning the barcodes of items in the store aisle and learning whether the manufacturer supports Trump. The app's "companies to avoid" include KitchenAid, which sponsored a major Trump golf tournament, New Balance and MillerCoors, due to a chairman on the board hosting a fundraiser for the Trump campaign, says Buycott’s founder Ivan Pardo.

The app informs consumers about whether the products they’re about to buy are made by a company that has expressed approval of Trump or if the product’s “neutral of conflict,” Pardo explains. The company's Boycott Trump Products campaign already has more than 46,000 members.

The company is also working on a Chrome extension that will be unveiled soon that will allow Trump critics to have their online shopping habits monitored. When users visit the website of a retailer, hospitality service or bank that supports Trump, they'll be alerted.

“This will be especially helpful for consumers since a lot of the brands that support Trump aren’t manufacturers, but are retailers that are still stocking Trump items or banks that support him,” Pardo says.

The extension will essentially work as a plug-in that completely blocks a site, points out a conflict and then suggests an alternate site that isn't known to be Trump-friendly.

“We’re working to fill in the holes to make it easy to bring Trump conflicts to the forefront without much work on the consumer's part,” Pardo says.