Immigrants To The U.S. Create Jobs -- Maybe Even Yours
Immigrants To The U.S. Create Jobs -- Maybe Even Yours
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Capital Flows       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Ali Vayeghan (2R) celebrates with (L-R) his niece Marjan Vayghan, brother Hossein and the Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti gesture upon arrival at Los Angeles International Airport after he was previously barred entry and deported from the United States under President Trumps travel ban, in Los Angeles, California on February 2, 2017. (MARK RALSTON/AFP/Getty Images) Recent executive orders on immigration have some people cheering. Motivated by concerns about national security, dilution of national identity and depletion of public resources, they welcome any border crackdown. President Trump taps into these fears with his proposed one-two punch: Extreme vetting of visa holders, followed by a border wall to keep out low-skilled, undocumented workers, including many who don’t speak English. I have a different perspective. As a person who arrived in the United States in 1988 with English fluency and a graduate degree, I had advantages over many border crossers fleeing poverty and political instability. But as a group — educated or illiterate, rich or poor, documented or undocumented — we are more alike than different. For starters, nearly all immigrants share a sense of desperation that feeds a bias toward action and an appetite for self-direction. Comfortable, cautious people don’t leave the familiarity of home to build a new life in a faraway place. My father offered me security and safety in India — and a generous inheritance — in exchange for submission to his rules. This would have meant a life as a housewife in an arranged marriage. I didn’t have hunger in my belly, but I felt a deep yearning in my soul. So I forfeited my inheritance and fatherly approval. I crossed an ocean, leaving behind everything but two suitcases, and all who I loved. Like so many other immigrants driven by a spirit of defiance, I refused to have my fate dictated to me. Entrepreneurs do something similar when they reject the status quo and start their own firms. To succeed, they must think like immigrants, showing the same tenacity and willingness to venture into the unknown. They are the rebels, outcasts and dreamers who give America its identity as a nation of innovators. This explains why immigrants are more than twice as likely as native-born citizens to start a company. And why more than 40 percent of Fortune 500 firms were founded or cofounded by immigrants or their children. And why immigrant-owned companies employ more than one-in-10 U.S. workers. The link between immigration and entrepreneurship is natural and works to the advantage of the United States, which attracts builders and innovators from all over the world with the promise of self-actualization and economic opportunity.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Recent executive orders on immigration have some people cheering. Motivated by concerns about national security, dilution of national identity and depletion of public resources, they welcome any border crackdown.

President Trump taps into these fears with his proposed one-two punch: Extreme vetting of visa holders, followed by a border wall to keep out low-skilled, undocumented workers, including many who don’t speak English.

I have a different perspective. As a person who arrived in the United States in 1988 with English fluency and a graduate degree, I had advantages over many border crossers fleeing poverty and political instability. But as a group — educated or illiterate, rich or poor, documented or undocumented — we are more alike than different.

For starters, nearly all immigrants share a sense of desperation that feeds a bias toward action and an appetite for self-direction. Comfortable, cautious people don’t leave the familiarity of home to build a new life in a faraway place.

My father offered me security and safety in India — and a generous inheritance — in exchange for submission to his rules. This would have meant a life as a housewife in an arranged marriage.

I didn’t have hunger in my belly, but I felt a deep yearning in my soul. So I forfeited my inheritance and fatherly approval. I crossed an ocean, leaving behind everything but two suitcases, and all who I loved. Like so many other immigrants driven by a spirit of defiance, I refused to have my fate dictated to me.

Entrepreneurs do something similar when they reject the status quo and start their own firms. To succeed, they must think like immigrants, showing the same tenacity and willingness to venture into the unknown. They are the rebels, outcasts and dreamers who give America its identity as a nation of innovators.

This explains why immigrants are more than twice as likely as native-born citizens to start a company. And why more than 40 percent of Fortune 500 firms were founded or cofounded by immigrants or their children. And why immigrant-owned companies employ more than one-in-10 U.S. workers.

The link between immigration and entrepreneurship is natural and works to the advantage of the United States, which attracts builders and innovators from all over the world with the promise of self-actualization and economic opportunity.