Shapiro: Media 'Sound Like Used Car Salesmen' About Flynn Resignation

Shapiro: Media 'Sound Like Used Car Salesmen' About Flynn Resignation // // // // Daily Wire editor Ben Shapiro said media outlets expressing outrage over former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn's contact with a Russian envoy is akin to "a used car salesman trying to hawk an old Chevy." Shapiro slammed such reporting, including from the New York Times' Tom Friedman who compared President Trump's election to Pearl Harbor. "Some advice for the media: If you want to be taken seriously, stop setting your hair on fire and running into plate-glass windows," he said. Shapiro called former CBS anchor Dan Rather the "godfather of modern media fake news" after hearing of his comparison of Flynn's actions to the Watergate affair. The press should know what happened and what was said in those conversations before "freaking out", Shapiro warned. They're jumping on every rake "within a three-radius," he said. What do you think? Watch the segment above and let us know in the comments below.

Daily Wire editor Ben Shapiro said media outlets expressing outrage over former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn's contact with a Russian envoy is akin to "a used car salesman trying to hawk an old Chevy."

Shapiro slammed such reporting, including from the New York Times' Tom Friedman who compared President Trump's election to Pearl Harbor.

Dem Gov. Candidate Apologizes for Saying Trump Win Was Like 'Political 9/11'

Shep to Dem Senator: Would Trump's Tax Returns Shed Light on Potential Russia Dealings?

GOP Senator: Trump Is 'Better Served' by Congress Investigating Russia Matter

"Some advice for the media: If you want to be taken seriously, stop setting your hair on fire and running into plate-glass windows," he said.

Shapiro called former CBS anchor Dan Rather the "godfather of modern media fake news" after hearing of his comparison of Flynn's actions to the Watergate affair.

The press should know what happened and what was said in those conversations before "freaking out", Shapiro warned.

They're jumping on every rake "within a three-radius," he said.

What do you think? Watch the segment above and let us know in the comments below.

Rove: Intelligence Leaks Are 'Political Payback'

Trump Offers Harward Nat'l Security Adviser Job; Labor Pick Withdraws

'Russia Attacked Us': Dem Senator Calls for Probe Similar to 9/11 Commission