US attorney conducting criminal investigation into Fox News
US attorney conducting criminal investigation into Fox News 
Shares               The Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office is conducting a criminal investigation into Fox News, an attorney involved and other sources familiar with the matter told ABC News. Judd Burstein, an attorney representing former Fox News personality Andrea Tantaros, said during a hearing today that one of his clients received a subpoena to testify before a federal grand jury investigating the use of corporate resources in connection with sexual harassment allegations against former Fox News CEO Roger Ailes and Fox News parent company 21st Century Fox. Burstein said the subpoena didn't involve Tantaros but a different client, whom he did not name. A spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara declined to comment. Fox News responded, saying in a statement, “Neither Fox News nor 21st Century Fox has received a subpoena, but we have been in communication with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for months — we have and will continue to cooperate on all inquiries with interested authorities.”  Shares                  US attorney conducting criminal investigation into Fox News   Trump press conference fact-check: What the president got wrong and right   Man arrested after threatening 'Dylann Roof-style attack'   Man arrested for plotting to bomb Target stores   Trump to replace halted travel ban with new executive order   Russian spy ship now off Virginia coast   Judge tosses out defamation lawsuit against Bill Cosby   Russell Simmons, rabbi, imam holding 'I Am A Muslim' rally   Trump nominates Alexander Acosta as labor secretary   Britax recalls 676,000 strollers after 26 children injured   Trump cited in report finding increase in US hate groups for 2nd year in a row   Tea party gains voice in Trump's Cabinet with budget chief   VP Pence's wife aims to raise awareness about art therapy   Darrelle Revis charged with four felonies after altercation in Pittsburgh   Islamic State suicide bombing at Pakistan shrine kills 75   Flu-related doctor visits cut by 48 percent, thanks to vaccine, study finds   No, Bill Gates didn't tweet Trump will be 'one of the greatest presidents'   More arrests in connection with assassination of Kim Jong Un's half brother   In Seoul, assassination of Kim Jong Un’s half brother engrosses, doesn't amaze   Witness: 'It was her or me,' Durst said about slain friend   Lawsuit: Tiffany & Co. pushed out employee with cancer mutation   'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' Force Friday II announced for September   Matt Damon defends 'The Great Wall' against claims of whitewashing   'World News Tonight’s' David Muir on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

The Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office is conducting a criminal investigation into Fox News, an attorney involved and other sources familiar with the matter told ABC News.

Judd Burstein, an attorney representing former Fox News personality Andrea Tantaros, said during a hearing today that one of his clients received a subpoena to testify before a federal grand jury investigating the use of corporate resources in connection with sexual harassment allegations against former Fox News CEO Roger Ailes and Fox News parent company 21st Century Fox.

Burstein said the subpoena didn't involve Tantaros but a different client, whom he did not name.

A spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara declined to comment.

Fox News responded, saying in a statement, “Neither Fox News nor 21st Century Fox has received a subpoena, but we have been in communication with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for months — we have and will continue to cooperate on all inquiries with interested authorities.”