Want to be neighbors with the Obamas, Ivanka Trump and Jeff Bezos? Here’s what it will cost you.

Want to become neighbors with the Obamas, Ivanka Trump and Jeff Bezos in one of the District’s hottest and most exclusive enclaves, Kalorama, but don’t want the hassle of modernizing a historic home? You are in luck. The French Embassy is selling off part of the land where its ambassador lives for $5.6 million. The 0.58-acre lot at 2221 Kalorama Road is roomy enough to build a grand mansion or up to five homes. It’s the first time in decades a parcel of land with no home on it has been for sale on the open market in this tony neighborhood. “What makes this land so unique is the zoning, R1B , which allows for a plethora of things you can build there,” said Alex Venditti of Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, who is co-listing the property with the Morrell-Roth team from Compass.   The French Embassy acquired the 1910 Tudor Revival residence in 1936. Additional lots that overlooked Kalorama Circle were purchased in 1941 to expand the parcel to 3.6 acres. This sale will reduce the lot size to closer to three acres, but it will remain the largest tract of land in Kalorama. “This sale is part of the overall strategy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to free up resources for future investments,” Emmanuelle Lachaussée, press counselor and spokesperson for the Embassy of France, said in a statement. “This is the case for this piece of land, which is not essential to the activities and prestige of the French ambassador’s residence.”   Located behind the ambassador’s home, the lot hugs Kalorama Circle. It is just down the street from where Ivanka Trump lives and around the corner from the Obamas’ residence. “The changes brought on by Obama have made the neighborhood feel a bit more exclusive,” Venditti said. “It’s like a small gated community with secret service patrolling between his house and Ivanka’s house.” Venditti said the opportunity to build a new house is appealing to many would-be buyers. “We’re seeing a huge upswing in people who want new and want modern and there are just very few opportunities to have that in the District,” he said. “I’ve dealt with many folks who just don’t want to stomach taking on an old home and having to retrofit it with today’s security and today’s electronics.” The listing price may seem high for land with no home on it, especially given that a house up the street is listing for $5.75 million . “We came up with the price using multiple calculations,” Venditti said. In addition to the cost for the land, the rarity of having a lot this size for sale, its history and the recent changes in the neighborhood (i.e., a former president and a first daughter moving in and bringing with them the Secret Service) were factored into the price. Listing: 2221 Kalorama Rd. NW, Washington, D.C. Listing agents: Alex Venditti Group , Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage; Morrell-Roth Team , Compass



The French Embassy is selling off the 0.58-acre lot on Kalorama Circle. (HomeVisit)

Want to become neighbors with the Obamas, Ivanka Trump and Jeff Bezos in one of the District’s hottest and most exclusive enclaves, Kalorama, but don’t want the hassle of modernizing a historic home? You are in luck. The French Embassy is selling off part of the land where its ambassador lives for $5.6 million.

The 0.58-acre lot at 2221 Kalorama Road is roomy enough to build a grand mansion or up to five homes. It’s the first time in decades a parcel of land with no home on it has been for sale on the open market in this tony neighborhood.

“What makes this land so unique is the zoning, R1B, which allows for a plethora of things you can build there,” said Alex Venditti of Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, who is co-listing the property with the Morrell-Roth team from Compass.

[There goes the neighborhood: Obamas, Ivanka Trump and Jeff Bezos moving in]

The French Embassy acquired the 1910 Tudor Revival residence in 1936. Additional lots that overlooked Kalorama Circle were purchased in 1941 to expand the parcel to 3.6 acres. This sale will reduce the lot size to closer to three acres, but it will remain the largest tract of land in Kalorama.



The lot is part of the tract of land where the French ambassador lives in Kalorama. (HomeVisit)

“This sale is part of the overall strategy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to free up resources for future investments,” Emmanuelle Lachaussée, press counselor and spokesperson for the Embassy of France, said in a statement. “This is the case for this piece of land, which is not essential to the activities and prestige of the French ambassador’s residence.”

[Jeff Bezos is the anonymous buyer of the biggest house in Washington]

Located behind the ambassador’s home, the lot hugs Kalorama Circle. It is just down the street from where Ivanka Trump lives and around the corner from the Obamas’ residence.

“The changes brought on by Obama have made the neighborhood feel a bit more exclusive,” Venditti said. “It’s like a small gated community with secret service patrolling between his house and Ivanka’s house.”



An artist’s rendering of a house on the land. (Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage)

Venditti said the opportunity to build a new house is appealing to many would-be buyers.

“We’re seeing a huge upswing in people who want new and want modern and there are just very few opportunities to have that in the District,” he said. “I’ve dealt with many folks who just don’t want to stomach taking on an old home and having to retrofit it with today’s security and today’s electronics.”



An artist’s rendering of four houses on the land. (Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage)

The listing price may seem high for land with no home on it, especially given that a house up the street is listing for $5.75 million.

“We came up with the price using multiple calculations,” Venditti said.

In addition to the cost for the land, the rarity of having a lot this size for sale, its history and the recent changes in the neighborhood (i.e., a former president and a first daughter moving in and bringing with them the Secret Service) were factored into the price.

Listing: 2221 Kalorama Rd. NW, Washington, D.C.

Listing agents: Alex Venditti Group, Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage; Morrell-Roth Team, Compass

(Note: Jeffrey P. Bezos is the owner of The Washington Post.)