BACK STORY

FROM FILM TO VIDEO TO DIGITAL - PHILL BROOK REFLECTS ON 36 YEARS WORKING IN TV PRODUCTION    Change
is constant, as the saying goes, and relishing change has been a hallmark of
Phill Brook’s long and varied career at the ABC. Over the course of 36 years,
the Senior Director and operations specialist has seen huge technological
change in radio and television production and he learnt early on to get on
board or be left behind. “I
think you have to be open minded, adaptable and want to develop yourself and
your ideas as technology and ideas move,” says Phill Brook. “The ABC is
a perfect place for that. It is undergoing changes at moment, which can be
disruptive and some people can’t or won’t adapt, but if you are open to change
and take up the challenge you can go a long way." Change
was underway the day Phill walked in the door of the ABC’s Sydney studios at
Gore Hill in 1981, on the eve of his 19th birthday, to start work as an
operations officer trainee. Film was being phased out and the organisation was
in the early days of transition to videotape. Over the next three years, he was
trained in all aspects of radio and television and developed a flexible
mindset. "I
was into music and had been involved in a community radio station in the late
‘70s and wanted to get into recording engineering in the music business, but
after doing the ABC traineeship I discovered the fun of working with video
instead. I still liked audio, but I specialised in vision mixing and video
editing." Phill Brook
enjoyed the challenge of switching cameras, vision feeds and effects and worked
on a range of productions, live broadcasts, news bulletins and current affairs
programs. One of his most memorable broadcasts was the final news bulletin presented by legendary NSW newsreader James Dibble. "James Dibble was a lovely chap to work
with, one of the last presenters who didn’t really use an autocue. There was
always one available but he was of the old school before autocue and could
memorise great chunks of script. He was also one of those presenters who could
ad lib to the second. Presenters who came from radio were very good at watching
the floor manager counting down and getting off air exactly on time. For
the crew who were working that day, it was the end of an era. James
had been reading the news on ABC TV since day one and it was a sad day.
" Phill
also worked as a vision switcher on the ABC’s controversial experiment in a
national news service, ‘The National’, headed by Geraldine Doogue and Richard
Morecroft, which he says was ground breaking in changing the way news was produced. “The National is not fondly remembered and was
widely regarded as a failure, but it was a change agent, in a similar way that
News 24 was. We were just coming out of film and The National dragged news into
electronic news production. There were new production techniques, the Basys
computer system was rolled out, we achieved co-production between Sydney and
Melbourne, took advantage of interstate cables and made more use of domestic
satellites to involve multiple news studios around the country to beef up live coverage
and dynamic production.” In 1988, Phill was seconded to help the Parliament
House Sound and Vision Office in Canberra set up television coverage of Federal
Parliament. The initial four week assignment stretched to three and a half
years and involved configuring an automated system using remote controlled
cameras synced to the audio of ABC radio coverage. “It was a good opportunity for me to resurrect
skills I had learnt as a trainee and hadn’t put into practice for a
few years. I got a taste for major and new technical projects which
has stayed with me for the rest of my career at the ABC. It was also the
place where I started directing, working on live coverage of the chambers
and major events happening around parliament. I enjoyed the editorial responsibility
and gaining a deeper understanding of the different aspects of production,
being able to tie together all the technical roles to create one big
picture of what was happening. I was there during the transition from the
Hawke to Keating governments and it was interesting to see how Parliament has a
buzz when political machinations are happening. Directing Parliament was tricky because the House
of Reps and Senate had strict rules about what you could show. You had to focus
on the person speaking so putting in a cutaway or a shot of something else was
challenging, because your TV instinct is to show the action and what’s unfolding
but you had to go against that and be very
conservative.” After
returning to Sydney in 1992, Phill went on to become one of the News Division’s
top directors, working on a range of news and current affairs programs. He’s
produced programs and also directed many Outside Broadcasts, including the
annual Sydney Anzac Day March. “I am proud of my long term involvement in what is an important
day for many Australians,” he says. Phill Brook’s technical expertise has been called on to
inform the development and roll out of robotic cameras and automated news
studios around the country, the construction of the News 24 studio at Ultimo,
the co-location of capital city newsrooms and most recently the introduction of
the new IMS production system. He
marvels at how much television production has changed over the course of his
career. “When
I started, TV was a much more measured process, the equipment was
bigger, a lot more unwieldly, less portable and it was more of a technical
challenge than today, for example film had to be
processed which was costly. Now people can film on their phones or a portable
video, it’s cheaper, lighter, more reliable and audiences are used to less
formal production. Live crosses to someone on Skype in remote parts of the
world have really opened up what we can do, made it much more immediate. I
think it’s interesting that technological change has also made TV and audio
production more democratic. There are a lot more voices and ideas being heard. I am
still amazed at how quickly technology is developing. You go through
one major tech change, make the transition to ‘x’ and you think surely you
can’t do much to improve this and then something else happens. The explosion
of internet services and network systems has been a major driver of recent technological
change, everything is so much more connected. The latest version of the
studio automation system we are rolling out, has the capability for a studio in one
state to control cameras in another state or combine studios for a big
production. It’s an interesting new sphere.” Deputy
Director of News Craig McMurtrie and NSW Operations Manager Rob Marin have
applauded Phill Brook’s contribution to the ABC. “He
has an encyclopaedic knowledge of all things operational within the ABC studios
and we will all miss having his expertise on tap and his calming presence,” says
Craig McMurtrie. “Over the last four years, Phill has provided invaluable
support to both myself and the various project teams as we roll out the IMS and studio graphics related projects. He’s always been the best person to have on
large events – he’s been able to get the best from both talent and the crew,” says Rob Marin. As he
reflects on his 36 years at the ABC, Phill is glad to have had the opportunity
to work in some great teams, alongside generous colleagues. “I love playing with new toys and that’s been the
theme of my 36 years – learning how to operate new toys and taking on new
challenges. And there’s a great group of people at the ABC who made that happen. It’s a very cooperative workforce. Too often you hear from people in
the outside world about how hard it is to get information from people, people
are reluctant to help with learning and development. You don’t get that at the
ABC, most people want to develop and help you expand and develop your
career.”

(Operations specialist Phill Brook - left - with News presenter Jeremy Fernandez at the 2014 New Year’s Eve 7pm News outside broadcast in Sydney - Photo: Phill Brook)

For 36 years, Phill Brook has worked at the cutting edge of television production, helping to steer ABC News through technological change and the transition from film to video to digital. He was also involved in establishing TV coverage of Federal Parliament. As he moves into retirement, Phill reflects on how dramatically television production has changed over the course of his career.

By Natasha Johnson

Change is constant, as the saying goes, and relishing change has been a hallmark of Phill Brook’s long and varied career at the ABC. Over the course of 36 years, the Senior Director and operations specialist has seen huge technological change in radio and television production and he learnt early on to get on board or be left behind.

“I think you have to be open minded, adaptable and want to develop yourself and your ideas as technology and ideas move,” says Phill Brook. “The ABC is a perfect place for that. It is undergoing changes at moment, which can be disruptive and some people can’t or won’t adapt, but if you are open to change and take up the challenge you can go a long way."

(The TV production crew working on the 1986 series of Clive James At Home - including a young Phill Brook circled below - Photo: ABC)

Change was underway the day Phill walked in the door of the ABC’s Sydney studios at Gore Hill in 1981, on the eve of his 19th birthday, to start work as an operations officer trainee. Film was being phased out and the organisation was in the early days of transition to videotape. Over the next three years, he was trained in all aspects of radio and television and developed a flexible mindset.



"I was into music and had been involved in a community radio station in the late ‘70s and wanted to get into recording engineering in the music business, but after doing the ABC traineeship I discovered the fun of working with video instead. I still liked audio, but I specialised in vision mixing and video editing."

Phill Brook enjoyed the challenge of switching cameras, vision feeds and effects and worked on a range of productions, live broadcasts, news bulletins and current affairs programs. One of his most memorable broadcasts was the final news bulletin presented by legendary NSW newsreader James Dibble.

"James Dibble was a lovely chap to work with, one of the last presenters who didn’t really use an autocue. There was always one available but he was of the old school before autocue and could memorise great chunks of script. He was also one of those presenters who could ad lib to the second. Presenters who came from radio were very good at watching the floor manager counting down and getting off air exactly on time. For the crew who were working that day, it was the end of an era. James had been reading the news on ABC TV since day one and it was a sad day. "

(Legendary ABC newsreader James Dibble)

Phill also worked as a vision switcher on the ABC’s controversial experiment in a national news service, ‘The National’, headed by Geraldine Doogue and Richard Morecroft, which he says was ground breaking in changing the way news was produced.

“The National is not fondly remembered and was widely regarded as a failure, but it was a change agent, in a similar way that News 24 was. We were just coming out of film and The National dragged news into electronic news production. There were new production techniques, the Basys computer system was rolled out, we achieved co-production between Sydney and Melbourne, took advantage of interstate cables and made more use of domestic satellites to involve multiple news studios around the country to beef up live coverage and dynamic production.”

In 1988, Phill was seconded to help the Parliament House Sound and Vision Office in Canberra set up television coverage of Federal Parliament. The initial four week assignment stretched to three and a half years and involved configuring an automated system using remote controlled cameras synced to the audio of ABC radio coverage.

“It was a good opportunity for me to resurrect skills I had learnt as a trainee and hadn’t put into practice for a few years. I got a taste for major and new technical projects which has stayed with me for the rest of my career at the ABC. It was also the place where I started directing, working on live coverage of the chambers and major events happening around parliament. I enjoyed the editorial responsibility and gaining a deeper understanding of the different aspects of production, being able to tie together all the technical roles to create one big picture of what was happening. I was there during the transition from the Hawke to Keating governments and it was interesting to see how Parliament has a buzz when political machinations are happening. Directing Parliament was tricky because the House of Reps and Senate had strict rules about what you could show. You had to focus on the person speaking so putting in a cutaway or a shot of something else was challenging, because your TV instinct is to show the action and what’s unfolding but you had to go against that and be very conservative.”

(Phill Brook - back right - with Wendy Young, Carol Lee and veteran ABC broadcaster John Hinde on the last day of recording ‘John Hinde Presents’ in 1999 - Photo: ABC archives)

After returning to Sydney in 1992, Phill went on to become one of the News Division’s top directors, working on a range of news and current affairs programs. He’s produced programs and also directed many Outside Broadcasts, including the annual Sydney Anzac Day March.

“I am proud of my long term involvement in what is an important day for many Australians,” he says.

Phill Brook’s technical expertise has been called on to inform the development and roll out of robotic cameras and automated news studios around the country, the construction of the News 24 studio at Ultimo, the co-location of capital city newsrooms and most recently the introduction of the new IMS production system. He marvels at how much television production has changed over the course of his career.

“When I started, TV was a much more measured process, the equipment was bigger, a lot more unwieldly, less portable and it was more of a technical challenge than today, for example film had to be processed which was costly. Now people can film on their phones or a portable video, it’s cheaper, lighter, more reliable and audiences are used to less formal production. Live crosses to someone on Skype in remote parts of the world have really opened up what we can do, made it much more immediate. I think it’s interesting that technological change has also made TV and audio production more democratic. There are a lot more voices and ideas being heard.

I am still amazed at how quickly technology is developing. You go through one major tech change, make the transition to ‘x’ and you think surely you can’t do much to improve this and then something else happens. The explosion of internet services and network systems has been a major driver of recent technological change, everything is so much more connected. The latest version of the studio automation system we are rolling out, has the capability for a studio in one state to control cameras in another state or combine studios for a big production. It’s an interesting new sphere.”

Deputy Director of News Craig McMurtrie and NSW Operations Manager Rob Marin have applauded Phill Brook’s contribution to the ABC.

“He has an encyclopaedic knowledge of all things operational within the ABC studios and we will all miss having his expertise on tap and his calming presence,” says Craig McMurtrie.

“Over the last four years, Phill has provided invaluable support to both myself and the various project teams as we roll out the IMS and studio graphics related projects. He’s always been the best person to have on large events – he’s been able to get the best from both talent and the crew,” says Rob Marin.

As he reflects on his 36 years at the ABC, Phill is glad to have had the opportunity to work in some great teams, alongside generous colleagues.

“I love playing with new toys and that’s been the theme of my 36 years – learning how to operate new toys and taking on new challenges. And there’s a great group of people at the ABC who made that happen. It’s a very cooperative workforce. Too often you hear from people in the outside world about how hard it is to get information from people, people are reluctant to help with learning and development. You don’t get that at the ABC, most people want to develop and help you expand and develop your career.”

Click here to return to the Back Story home page or catch up on stories from the past four years on our archive page.