Crossword-Solving: A Search for Connections and Answers
Crossword-Solving: A Search for Connections and Answers
After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, a New York Times editor made a decision: “We ought to proceed with the puzzle.” The puzzle in question was a crossword. Despite decades of popularity — and the endorsement of Arthur Hays Sulzberger, then the publisher of The Times — crosswords had yet to appear in the newspaper. (A Times editorial had called the puzzles “a primitive sort of mental exercise” and a “sinful waste” of time.) Facing a war, the prospect of blackout hours and an audience in need of relaxation, the paper moved in a new direction. Seventy-five years later, people continue to turn to The Times’s puzzles for comfort and distraction. “Human brains are hard-wired to fill in blanks when they see them,” said Helen R. Friedman, a clinical psychologist in St. Louis. “In difficult times, when life begins to feel out of control or when faced with an emotional dilemma, working on something that has finite answers can provide a sense of security.” Vicki Eastus, a puzzle solver in Brooklyn, put it this way: “The more hectic life is, the more calming I find filling in those little boxes.” Search the internet for research on the impact of puzzle-solving on the brain, and you’ll find plenty of studies. But the results are mixed, and it’s not clear whether puzzle solving has any purely physiological benefits. Advertisement The psychological benefits, though, are not in question. “When you do a puzzle, the mind becomes completely absorbed in the task at hand,” said Joanne Cohen-Katz, a psychologist in Allentown, Pa. “There is total focus on what is happening in the moment, which is the definition of mindfulness. And we know that mindfulness results in all sorts of positive changes in the brain.” For one, solving a crossword can be a path to serenity in a world of uncertainty. “I don’t think I have to sell you on the increased demand for this type of pastime in an increasingly worried world,” wrote Margaret Farrar, the first crossword editor of The Times, in a memo to Lester Markel, the Sunday editor, after the Pearl Harbor attack. “You can’t think of your troubles while solving a crossword.” In recent interviews, New York Times crossword enthusiasts shared their emotional connections to the pastime and described the value they find in the exercise. Harry Hassell, of Jackson Heights, Queens, remembered his mother working on crosswords. “Amid the chaos of the household, it allowed her a personal pleasure and a routine all her own,” he said. “It also allowed me to see her not just as a car-pooling, tennis-playing mother, but also as a clever, intelligent, word-loving woman.” Such intergenerational connections, forged over black-and-white grids, can have long-term implications. “I first started doing crosswords as a child while visiting my Grandma Pat,” said Neil Padrick Wilson, a claims analyst in Tacoma, Wash. “She would sit at the big dining room table, dipping toast in her coffee. I would dip toast in my hot chocolate and we would work through a puzzle together. It got me to think, it got me to learn and it got me to know her better.” Puzzles became so important to Mr. Wilson that he began to create them, and a crossword he made recently ran in The Times. While not all enthusiasts go on to construct puzzles, it’s not uncommon for an early habit to persist. Advertisement “Rituals are often key in bonding with others, particularly family rituals,” said Ray Bepko, a clinical psychologist in Clinton, N.Y. “Pastimes and hobbies are very much a part of this and impact our adult relationships.” That seems to be at least one reason people continue or develop a solving habit in adulthood, Dr. Bepko said. “Accessing this deep emotional connection is a source of comfort and reassurance anytime, particularly in difficult moments.” Of course, puzzles are games, and they’re meant to be fun — especially in the addictive “aha!” moments that many solvers describe. “I feel klutzy while I’m doing it,” said Sharon Weinstein, a Times puzzle solver from North Potomac, Md. “But afterward there’s a great sensation of satisfaction.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, a New York Times editor made a decision: “We ought to proceed with the puzzle.”

The puzzle in question was a crossword. Despite decades of popularity — and the endorsement of Arthur Hays Sulzberger, then the publisher of The Times — crosswords had yet to appear in the newspaper. (A Times editorial had called the puzzles “a primitive sort of mental exercise” and a “sinful waste” of time.)

Facing a war, the prospect of blackout hours and an audience in need of relaxation, the paper moved in a new direction.

Seventy-five years later, people continue to turn to The Times’s puzzles for comfort and distraction.

“Human brains are hard-wired to fill in blanks when they see them,” said Helen R. Friedman, a clinical psychologist in St. Louis. “In difficult times, when life begins to feel out of control or when faced with an emotional dilemma, working on something that has finite answers can provide a sense of security.”

Photo

Vicki Eastus, a puzzle solver in Brooklyn, put it this way: “The more hectic life is, the more calming I find filling in those little boxes.”

Search the internet for research on the impact of puzzle-solving on the brain, and you’ll find plenty of studies. But the results are mixed, and it’s not clear whether puzzle solving has any purely physiological benefits.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The psychological benefits, though, are not in question.

“When you do a puzzle, the mind becomes completely absorbed in the task at hand,” said Joanne Cohen-Katz, a psychologist in Allentown, Pa. “There is total focus on what is happening in the moment, which is the definition of mindfulness. And we know that mindfulness results in all sorts of positive changes in the brain.”

For one, solving a crossword can be a path to serenity in a world of uncertainty.

“I don’t think I have to sell you on the increased demand for this type of pastime in an increasingly worried world,” wrote Margaret Farrar, the first crossword editor of The Times, in a memo to Lester Markel, the Sunday editor, after the Pearl Harbor attack. “You can’t think of your troubles while solving a crossword.”

In recent interviews, New York Times crossword enthusiasts shared their emotional connections to the pastime and described the value they find in the exercise.

Harry Hassell, of Jackson Heights, Queens, remembered his mother working on crosswords. “Amid the chaos of the household, it allowed her a personal pleasure and a routine all her own,” he said. “It also allowed me to see her not just as a car-pooling, tennis-playing mother, but also as a clever, intelligent, word-loving woman.”

Photo

Such intergenerational connections, forged over black-and-white grids, can have long-term implications.

“I first started doing crosswords as a child while visiting my Grandma Pat,” said Neil Padrick Wilson, a claims analyst in Tacoma, Wash. “She would sit at the big dining room table, dipping toast in her coffee. I would dip toast in my hot chocolate and we would work through a puzzle together. It got me to think, it got me to learn and it got me to know her better.”

Puzzles became so important to Mr. Wilson that he began to create them, and a crossword he made recently ran in The Times.

While not all enthusiasts go on to construct puzzles, it’s not uncommon for an early habit to persist.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Rituals are often key in bonding with others, particularly family rituals,” said Ray Bepko, a clinical psychologist in Clinton, N.Y. “Pastimes and hobbies are very much a part of this and impact our adult relationships.”

That seems to be at least one reason people continue or develop a solving habit in adulthood, Dr. Bepko said. “Accessing this deep emotional connection is a source of comfort and reassurance anytime, particularly in difficult moments.”

Of course, puzzles are games, and they’re meant to be fun — especially in the addictive “aha!” moments that many solvers describe.

“I feel klutzy while I’m doing it,” said Sharon Weinstein, a Times puzzle solver from North Potomac, Md. “But afterward there’s a great sensation of satisfaction.”