Meatballs With Any Meat Recipe

Lamb Meatballs with Mint By Melissa Clark 2 hours 30 minutes Meatballs Stroganoff By Pierre Franey 30 minutes Steak ’N’ Bacon Cheddar Meatballs By Julia Moskin 45 minutes easy Meatballs By Frank Bruni About 25 minutes Crab-Meat Quiche By David Tanis Spelt and Lamb Meatballs By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending New York Deli-Style Rye Bread By Julia Moskin About 4 hours 30 minutes Trending Loaded Miso Soup By Mark Bittman 20 minutes Trending Red Berry Soufflé By Melissa Clark 65 minutes Trending Brown Butter Skillet Cornbread By Melissa Clark 1 hour Trending Takeout-Style Sesame Noodles By Sam Sifton 10 minutes Trending Pan-Baked Lemon-Almond Tart By Mark Bittman 20 minutes Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times Making great meatballs is all about memorizing a basic ratio that you can adjust to suit your taste. Start with a pound of ground meat — any kind will work, even fish if you want to take it in that direction. Add 1/2 cup bread crumbs for lightness, a teaspoon of salt, and an egg to bind it together. That’s all you need. Pepper and other spices, chopped herbs and minced allium (garlic, onion, scallions or shallot) can be added to taste. Then broil or fry as you like.   5 Easy Meals For The Distracted Cook .  Egg , Meat , Panko  Ingredients                           Nutritional analysis per serving (4 servings)    Preparation In a large bowl, gently combine all ingredients. Roll into 1 1/2-inch balls. Transfer to a baking sheet. Broil until golden and firm, 7 to 10 minutes. Or fry in oil until deeply browned all over. Sprinkle with more salt before serving. Frittata Template By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes Roasted Vegetables By Melissa Clark 30 minutes to 1 hour Pasta Frittata By Mark Bittman 40 minutes Pasta With Bacon, Cheese, Lemon and Pine Nuts By Julia Moskin 30 minutes Pressure Cooker Chocolate Pudding By Melissa Clark 40 minutes, plus chilling Buckwheat Popovers By Melissa Clark 50 minutes Sweet Gorgonzola Fondue By Melissa Clark 15 minutes Double Garlic Soup By Melissa Clark 45 minutes Cooking Guide How to Make Soup By Samin Nosrat Cooking Guide How to Make Pancakes By Alison Roman Cooking Guide How to Make Cocktails By Robert Simonson Cooking Guide How to Grill By Sam Sifton

Let's Get Started

Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below.