Fiona Apple Delights With Valentine's Day-Timed Frankie Valli, Stevie Wonder Covers
Fiona Apple Delights With Valentine's Day-Timed Frankie Valli, Stevie Wonder Covers
Fiona Apple Delights With Valentine's Day-Timed Frankie Valli, Stevie Wonder Covers  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Though no new album is in sight, Fiona Apple is clearly feeling very musical these days. Her latest one-off vocal adventure came via a pair of covers she dropped on Valentine's Day of Frankie Valli and Stevie Wonder songs recorded with an Instagram-famous senior citizen. And not just any 69-year-old Instagrammer, but Lili Hayes , the streetwise, Supreme-lovingÂ mother of artist/director Kevin Hayes,Â who has racked up more than 33,000 followers thanks to her hilariously hip posts. Following on the heels of her President Trump-bashed originals and a recent take on a classic SWV hit, Apple hooked up with Hayes for a cover of Valli's 1967 hit "Can't Take My Eyes Off You" and Wonder's 1984 gem "I Just Called To Say I Love You." Why?Â  Who cares, all we know is that it makes us feel good, and isn't that what love is all about? Fiona and @lili_hayes killing with some karaoke on Valentine's Day!! -------- A post shared by Kevin Hayes (@thedirtiestlittlerainbow) on Apple hasn't released an album of new material since 2012's ,Â but over the past few monthsÂ the normally reclusive singer has released a series of quirky one-offs that include the Trump takedowns " Trump's Nuts Roasting on an Open Fire " and " Tiny Hands ." Just last week Kevin Hayes posted her cover of SWV'sÂ 1993 No. 1 hit " Weak ."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Video still of Lili Hayes teaching Fiona Apple her favorite song, "Can't Take My Eyes off You"

Though no new album is in sight, Fiona Apple is clearly feeling very musical these days. Her latest one-off vocal adventure came via a pair of covers she dropped on Valentine's Day of Frankie Valli and Stevie Wonder songs recorded with an Instagram-famous senior citizen. And not just any 69-year-old Instagrammer, but Lili Hayes, the streetwise, Supreme-lovingÂ mother of artist/director Kevin Hayes,Â who has racked up more than 33,000 followers thanks to her hilariously hip posts.

Following on the heels of her President Trump-bashed originals and a recent take on a classic SWV hit, Apple hooked up with Hayes for a cover of Valli's 1967 hit "Can't Take My Eyes Off You" and Wonder's 1984 gem "I Just Called To Say I Love You." Why?Â

Who cares, all we know is that it makes us feel good, and isn't that what love is all about?

Â Fiona and @lili_hayes killing with some karaoke on Valentine's Day!! -------- A post shared by Kevin Hayes (@thedirtiestlittlerainbow) on Feb 14, 2017 at 12:28pm PST

Apple hasn't released an album of new material since 2012's The Idler Wheel,Â but over the past few monthsÂ the normally reclusive singer has released a series of quirky one-offs that include the Trump takedowns "Trump's Nuts Roasting on an Open Fire" and "Tiny Hands." Just last week Kevin Hayes posted her cover of SWV'sÂ 1993 No. 1 hit "Weak."