How To Ask Questions And Look Smart At Your Next Meeting
How To Ask Questions And Look Smart At Your Next Meeting
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Avery Blank       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) A fortune cookie reminded me, Asking questions is the key to understanding and gaining the knowledge you need to advance. There is a way to ask questions that can help you gain knowledge and, at the same time, help you look smart and gain respect. Here are the four rules for asking questions the smart way: If you can discreetly Google the concept while the person is speaking and understand it, you may not want to ask it. If you do not understand the information you found on the Internet, don’t be afraid to ask a question. Most likely, others will want to know the same information. The other audience members and even the speaker will respect you for raising your hand and taking the opportunity to clarify something from which everyone can benefit. When prefacing a question, don’t say “sorry” or “just.” Refrain from saying, “I’m sorry but…” or “I just want to ask…” Do not start off saying, "Quick question" or "This may be a silly or stupid question." Using these words and phrases can undermine your inquiry and other people’s confidence in you as a professional. Also, try not to use words like “etcetera” or “whatever” or phrases like “so on and so forth.” These filler words do not add value to what you are trying to communicate. 11 Things Smart People Won't Say At Work    Trending on {{channel_name}}

A fortune cookie reminded me, “One way to learn more is not to hide your ignorance.” Asking questions is the key to understanding and gaining the knowledge you need to advance. There is a way to ask questions that can help you gain knowledge and, at the same time, help you look smart and gain respect.

Here are the four rules for asking questions the smart way:

1. Follow the Google rule.

If you can discreetly Google the concept while the person is speaking and understand it, you may not want to ask it. If you do not understand the information you found on the Internet, don’t be afraid to ask a question. Most likely, others will want to know the same information. The other audience members and even the speaker will respect you for raising your hand and taking the opportunity to clarify something from which everyone can benefit.

2. Eliminate cringe-worthy words and phrases.

When prefacing a question, don’t say “sorry” or “just.” Refrain from saying, “I’m sorry but…” or “I just want to ask…” Do not start off saying, "Quick question" or "This may be a silly or stupid question." Using these words and phrases can undermine your inquiry and other people’s confidence in you as a professional. Also, try not to use words like “etcetera” or “whatever” or phrases like “so on and so forth.” These filler words do not add value to what you are trying to communicate.