Joey Badass Strives For Glory On New Song "Victory"
Joey Badass Strives For Glory On New Song "Victory"
Joey Badass is back with new music today, as the Brooklyn rapper has laced The Courtside Project—a partnership between Mountain Dew and the NBA—​and his fans with "Victory." The record comes at the perfect time, as Joey will also be down in New Orleans for All-Star Weekend to deliver the debut performance of the song, as well as to film a new music video. "I’m excited to be a part of The Courtside Project," told about the collaboration. "It’s the fusion of several different worlds—from basketball to music, style and art—that are not all separate streams anymore, they are interconnected. I always want to encourage the youth to be themselves and pursue their dreams, whether those are hoop dreams, Grammy dreams or PhD dreams." Joey took to Twitter to clarify the record will not be featured on his upcoming album: Victory is not on #aaba . It is a song that I did in collaboration with @MountainDew & @NBA for #AllStarWeekend . https://t.co/Ae992PYLIA Speaking of , the project is due out sometime this spring, according to Joey's new cover story with . "This one is about the temperature of the world right now and what’s been happening to us as a people over the last couple of years," he said of the album. "It’s my take on this country as a young black man, and the relationship we have—what’s really going on." For now, check out "Victory" below, and stream his previous cut "Land of the Free" here if you haven't already. Pro Era also recently re-upped on merch; grab some new gear here .

Joey Badass is back with new music today, as the Brooklyn rapper has laced The Courtside Project—a partnership between Mountain Dew and the NBA—​and his fans with "Victory." The record comes at the perfect time, as Joey will also be down in New Orleans for All-Star Weekend to deliver the debut performance of the song, as well as to film a new music video.

"I’m excited to be a part of The Courtside Project," told Billboard about the collaboration. "It’s the fusion of several different worlds—from basketball to music, style and art—that are not all separate streams anymore, they are interconnected. I always want to encourage the youth to be themselves and pursue their dreams, whether those are hoop dreams, Grammy dreams or PhD dreams."

Joey took to Twitter to clarify the record will not be featured on his upcoming album:

Speaking of A.A.B.A., the project is due out sometime this spring, according to Joey's new cover story with Nylon. "This one is about the temperature of the world right now and what’s been happening to us as a people over the last couple of years," he said of the album. "It’s my take on this country as a young black man, and the relationship we have—what’s really going on."

For now, check out "Victory" below, and stream his previous cut "Land of the Free" here if you haven't already. Pro Era also recently re-upped on merch; grab some new gear here.