Eight million Britons opt for staycation amid sterling's post-Brexit slump
Eight million Britons opt for staycation amid sterling's post-Brexit slump
illions of holidaymakers are changing their travel plans on account of the post-Brexit slump in the value of the pound, new research suggests, with a possible eight million planning a “staycation” in the UK to save money instead of going abroad. Forty-one per cent of a recent survey of 2,005 British travellers claimed that sterling's slide since the UK voted to leave the EU had affected their holiday plans, with 16 per cent saying they had decided to stay at home. Half of the young people spoken to in the survey revealed that they have had to tighten their holiday budgets following the referendum vote and falling value of the pound. Of the many destinations that Britons will find more expensive this summer, sterling will buy you less in Australia and Norway in particular, according to Columbus Direct, the travel insurance company. A Briton heading to Australia, as of February 1, will now only get A$830 back from £500, as opposed to A$1,014 a year ago - a reduction of £111.27. Those travelling to Norway will be £103.13 poorer from the exchange of £500 than they would have been in early 2016. Britons will also have less in their pockets in America, where £500 is now worth $88 (£70.27) less than last year. “We have enjoyed a strong currency for many years so the reduced strength of the pound is going to be noticeable for holidaymakers when it doesn’t go as far as it used to,” said Rob Thomas, Head of Brand at Columbus Direct. “Anyone heading to Europe, the US and Australia especially will feel the pinch of less favourable exchange rates.” Skiers and snowboarders in France and Austria will probably have already noticed that they can afford fewer vin chauds or mulled wines compared to last February - they now get €76 (£65.15) less in return for £500. Brexit has made less of an impact in Japan, Mexico and Malaysia, however, the research suggested. Savvier spenders might want to look for deals to these countries, as on February 1 2017, Britons would have received between £22 and £27 more out of their £500 than they would have done in August last year, not long after the referendum. When it comes to keeping an eye on spending, 11 per cent of those questioned in the survey claimed to set a holiday budget in advance. Eight per cent said they are reducing the number of holidays they will take and 7 per cent plan to travel on a self-catering basis in order to make savings. In European cities, travellers should look for good-value visitor passes that often include transport savings and discounts for museum visits, Mr Thomas suggests. Nick Trend, Telegraph Travel’s consumer editor, said: “Prices in different destinations have always varied. It's much cheaper to stay and eat in Lisbon than Paris. But the real secret of saving money on city breaks is timing. Travel off-season - March rather than May - and off-peak - Sunday-Wednesday rather than Thursday to Sunday - and you will find fares are lower and rooms are cheaper, often significantly so.”

Millions of holidaymakers are changing their travel plans on account of the post-Brexit slump in the value of the pound, new research suggests, with a possible eight million planning a “staycation” in the UK to save money instead of going abroad.

Forty-one per cent of a recent survey of 2,005 British travellers claimed that sterling's slide since the UK voted to leave the EU had affected their holiday plans, with 16 per cent saying they had decided to stay at home.

Half of the young people spoken to in the survey revealed that they have had to tighten their holiday budgets following the referendum vote and falling value of the pound.

Australia is now more expensive for Britons Credit: James Braund/James Braund,James Braund

Of the many destinations that Britons will find more expensive this summer, sterling will buy you less in Australia and Norway in particular, according to Columbus Direct, the travel insurance company.

A Briton heading to Australia, as of February 1, will now only get A$830 back from £500, as opposed to A$1,014 a year ago - a reduction of £111.27.

Those travelling to Norway will be £103.13 poorer from the exchange of £500 than they would have been in early 2016.

Britons will also have less in their pockets in America, where £500 is now worth $88 (£70.27) less than last year.

“We have enjoyed a strong currency for many years so the reduced strength of the pound is going to be noticeable for holidaymakers when it doesn’t go as far as it used to,” said Rob Thomas, Head of Brand at Columbus Direct.

“Anyone heading to Europe, the US and Australia especially will feel the pinch of less favourable exchange rates.”

Skiers in France and Austria are feeling the pinch too Credit: Christian Kapfinger

Skiers and snowboarders in France and Austria will probably have already noticed that they can afford fewer vin chauds or mulled wines compared to last February - they now get €76 (£65.15) less in return for £500.

Brexit has made less of an impact in Japan, Mexico and Malaysia, however, the research suggested. Savvier spenders might want to look for deals to these countries, as on February 1 2017, Britons would have received between £22 and £27 more out of their £500 than they would have done in August last year, not long after the referendum.

Save money in Lisbon by travelling out of season Credit: Copyright: Roberta Patat/Photographer: Roberta Patat

When it comes to keeping an eye on spending, 11 per cent of those questioned in the survey claimed to set a holiday budget in advance. Eight per cent said they are reducing the number of holidays they will take and 7 per cent plan to travel on a self-catering basis in order to make savings.

In European cities, travellers should look for good-value visitor passes that often include transport savings and discounts for museum visits, Mr Thomas suggests.

Watch | Top tips for finding a cheap flight 01:50

Nick Trend, Telegraph Travel’s consumer editor, said: “Prices in different destinations have always varied. It's much cheaper to stay and eat in Lisbon than Paris. But the real secret of saving money on city breaks is timing. Travel off-season - March rather than May - and off-peak - Sunday-Wednesday rather than Thursday to Sunday - and you will find fares are lower and rooms are cheaper, often significantly so.”