'Vinyl Cafe' Radio Show Host Stuart McLean Dead At 68
Beloved 'Vinyl Cafe' Radio Show Host Stuart McLean Dies
OTTAWA (Reuters) - Stuart McLean, a Canadian humorist and broadcaster best known for his popular syndicated comic radio show The Vinyl Cafe, died on Wednesday at the age of 68, the Canadian Broadcasting Corp said. Although the CBC did not immediately give a cause of death, doctors had been treating McLean for melanoma since late 2015. In a December 2016 blog post to fans, he said the treatment had not been totally successful. The Vinyl Cafe, a weekly CBC show broadcast in both Canada and the United States, started in 1994 and focused on the life and misadventures of Dave, owner of a small record store, and his wife Morley. McLean, who began his career as a journalist making CBC radio documentaries, wrote a series of best-selling books based on the show. He started taking The Vinyl Cafe on the road in 2008, traveling to both Canada and the UInitd States. “Stuart was an exceptional storyteller who has left an indelible mark on CBC Radio and countless communities across Canada,” Susan Marjetti, executive director of CBC Radio, said in a statement. McLean was awarded the Order of Canada in 2011 “for his contributions to Canadian culture as a storyteller and broadcaster.” He won Canada’s Leacock medal for humor three times, most recently in 2007. Fans, including Prime Minister Justin Trudeau took to social media to remember McLean: On the Vinyl Cafe and in communities across the country, Stuart McLean told uniquely Canadian stories. We’ll miss his humour and humanity. Stuart McLean filled so well the airwaves with his stories and offered us memorable moments. He will be dearly missed. Stuart McLean had the rarest of gifts. His stories could move people to tears of joy or sadness in equal measure, often at the same time. I am profoundly sad to learn of the passing of Stuart McLean, host of CBC's The Vinyl Café. Christmas turkey will never be the same. #rip Very sad to hear of passing of Stuart McLean, the master of long form storytelling full of charm and void of snark or profanity. #RIPStuart Today we lost a very insightful, deep soul.  A man who connected us to each other and to the Country.  RIP Stuart McLean. Heartbreaking. Stuart McLean has died. The man who brought us the stories of a fair country of good neighbours will not be forgotten. @CBC How often Canada have u stayed in ur car, stood in ur kitchens listening 2 #stuartmclean  #vinylcafe finish a yarn. What a gift, what a loss. Raising a toast to a Canadian Icon, a National treasure, and one hell of a good sport. A sad day for radio. Rest in peace. #StuartMclean Stuart McLean, 1948 - 2017. https://t.co/isR44jxYph  pic.twitter.com/JFc0sbSekt ALSO ON HUFFPOST Writers We've Lost In 2017       Share this slide:       MORE:

OTTAWA (Reuters) - Stuart McLean, a Canadian humorist and broadcaster best known for his popular syndicated comic radio show The Vinyl Cafe, died on Wednesday at the age of 68, the Canadian Broadcasting Corp said.

Although the CBC did not immediately give a cause of death, doctors had been treating McLean for melanoma since late 2015. In a December 2016 blog post to fans, he said the treatment had not been totally successful.

Chris Wattie / Reuters Stuart McLean, left, shakes hands with Governor General David Johnston after being awarded the rank of Officer in the Order of Canada at Rideau Hall in 2012.

The Vinyl Cafe, a weekly CBC show broadcast in both Canada and the United States, started in 1994 and focused on the life and misadventures of Dave, owner of a small record store, and his wife Morley.

McLean, who began his career as a journalist making CBC radio documentaries, wrote a series of best-selling books based on the show. He started taking The Vinyl Cafe on the road in 2008, traveling to both Canada and the UInitd States.

“Stuart was an exceptional storyteller who has left an indelible mark on CBC Radio and countless communities across Canada,” Susan Marjetti, executive director of CBC Radio, said in a statement.

McLean was awarded the Order of Canada in 2011 “for his contributions to Canadian culture as a storyteller and broadcaster.” He won Canada’s Leacock medal for humor three times, most recently in 2007.

Fans, including Prime Minister Justin Trudeau took to social media to remember McLean:

On the Vinyl Cafe and in communities across the country, Stuart McLean told uniquely Canadian stories. We’ll miss his humour and humanity. — Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) February 16, 2017

Stuart McLean filled so well the airwaves with his stories and offered us memorable moments. He will be dearly missed. — David Johnston (@GGDavidJohnston) February 16, 2017

Stuart McLean had the rarest of gifts. His stories could move people to tears of joy or sadness in equal measure, often at the same time. — Jonathan Torrens (@TorrensJonathan) February 15, 2017

I am profoundly sad to learn of the passing of Stuart McLean, host of CBC's The Vinyl Café. Christmas turkey will never be the same. #rip — Bob Prentice (@Prentice8R) February 15, 2017

Very sad to hear of passing of Stuart McLean, the master of long form storytelling full of charm and void of snark or profanity. #RIPStuart — Steve Patterson (@patterballs) February 15, 2017

Today we lost a very insightful, deep soul. A man who connected us to each other and to the Country. RIP Stuart McLean. — glendabaileylidstone (@glendabaileylid) February 15, 2017

Heartbreaking. Stuart McLean has died. The man who brought us the stories of a fair country of good neighbours will not be forgotten. @CBC — Elizabeth May (@ElizabethMay) February 15, 2017

How often Canada have u stayed in ur car, stood in ur kitchens listening 2 #stuartmclean #vinylcafe finish a yarn. What a gift, what a loss. — Adrienne Arsenault (@adriearsenault) February 15, 2017