Lucky toddler stars in her very own 'Beauty and the Beast' photoshoot
Lucky toddler stars in her very own 'Beauty and the Beast' photoshoot
Among the perks of having a commercial photographer as your dad: the chance to model in photoshoots styled after your all-time favorite movie. For 3-year-old Nellee, that meant donning a tiny golden gown to channel Belle of for a photo series shot and edited entirely by her dad, Josh Rossi. SEE ALSO: The extended 'Beauty and the Beast' trailer we've been waiting for is here Image: john rossi Over the course of one month, Rossi planned, shot and edited the homage to the Disney fairytale, blending scenic imagery he shot in Europe with shots of his daughter taken back home. He and his wife even commissioned luxury costume designer Ella Dynae to create dresses for the series. And although Rossi photographed the series himself, planning the series was very much a family project. His wife Roxana booked all of the European shooting locations ahead of time and secured the costumes, among other shoot details. "Usually we are just playing games our kids like. This time we play a game we both truly love, which is taking magical pictures together," he wrote via email. "I honestly hope that dads will get inspired to spend more time with their daughters and find something they can do together to connect." Image: john rossi Image: john rossi Image: john rossi BONUS: Here's how the live-action 'Beauty and the Beast' characters compare to the original

Among the perks of having a commercial photographer as your dad: the chance to model in photoshoots styled after your all-time favorite movie.

For 3-year-old Nellee, that meant donning a tiny golden gown to channel Belle of Beauty and the Beast for a photo series shot and edited entirely by her dad, Josh Rossi.

Over the course of one month, Rossi planned, shot and edited the homage to the Disney fairytale, blending scenic imagery he shot in Europe with shots of his daughter taken back home. He and his wife even commissioned luxury costume designer Ella Dynae to create dresses for the series.

And although Rossi photographed the series himself, planning the series was very much a family project. His wife Roxana booked all of the European shooting locations ahead of time and secured the costumes, among other shoot details.

"Usually we are just playing games our kids like. This time we play a game we both truly love, which is taking magical pictures together," he wrote via email.

"I honestly hope that dads will get inspired to spend more time with their daughters and find something they can do together to connect."