Mexican police officers 'gang-rape their female colleague'
Five police officers in Mexico 'gang-raped their female colleague'


Five Mexican police officers are being investigated over the gang rape of a female colleague after harrowing footage of her ordeal emerged.

The police officers are being investigated after footage of the shocking assault was released to local media in Villahermosa, in the Mexican state of Tabasco.

The incident occurred in October 2015 but the footage has only just surfaced. The woman was attacked at the Police Academy in the city, according to local media.

Five Mexican police officers are being investigated over the gang rape of a female colleague after harrowing footage of the incident, which occurred in October 2015, emerged. The woman was attacked at the Police Academy in Villahermosa (pictured above)

The video shows the female officer lying on the ground with her legs spread and a man without a top on top of her.

He then gets up and is replaced by another one of the five accused officers, wearing a white shirt.

He can then be seen moving backwards and forwards on top of her.

She is almost naked and appears to be under the effect of alcohol or drugs, local media reported.

The female victim told investigators she did not recall much about the assault but was moved to make a complaint when the lurid video was posted on social media sites.

She can be seen in the video lying on the ground, wearing only a bra, and trying to cover her private parts at the beginning of the clip.

Local media in Villahermosa in southern Mexico (pictured above) reported that five officers have so far been suspended and that one of them was arrested

The man recording the scene is heard saying 'get out of there' while the first man, half-naked and only wearing blue shorts, is seen walking away from her.

Then, a second officer is seen, this time wearing a white shirt with the message 'la seguridad es de todos' - which means 'security is for everybody' - lying on top of the woman and having sex with her.

Jose Alberto Aguirre Carbajal, secretary of public security, described the case as 'very serious', adding: 'We are collecting evidence in order to determine the punishment for this serious crime.'

'We know that there are more people, because somebody recorded the video, but I cannot confirm properly how many officers participated', he said.

Local media reported that five officers have so far been suspended and that one of them was arrested. No names were mentioned in reports. The exact charges so far are unclear.