Philadelphia Dance Center Invited Dads To Ballet Class And The Results Will Warm Your Heart
Dads Dancing Ballet With Their Little Girls Will Warm Your Heart
A dance school in Philadelphia celebrated Valentine’s Day a bit differently this week and invited parents to join their kids’ classes. The school asked moms to participate in students’ hip hop classes on the day before or after Valentine’s Day. Dads were invited to spend the evening of Feb. 14 dancing ballet with their kids. And the results were nothing short of heartwarming. Philadelphia Dance Center posted videos and photos of the night to their Facebook page, not expecting the clips to go viral. Within days, a video of dads pointing their toes and lifting their legs to “Waltz of the Flowers” from Tchaikovsky’s “The Nutcracker Suite” racked up more than 9.8 million views. Another video, viewed more than 400,000 times, showed dads learning how to pirouette across the floor. The night was a huge success, both on the internet and in real life. After receiving such a big response from Facebook users who liked, shared and commented on the posts, Philadelphia Dance Center posted a message of gratitude to its Facebook Page. ”Thank you for recognizing the beauty, love, and joy that dance can bring into the world,” the message read. “It just proves that art, love and family are the international language. ALSO ON HUFFPOST 19 Style Lessons Every Ballet Kid Knows To Be True       Share this slide:       MORE:

A dance school in Philadelphia celebrated Valentine’s Day a bit differently this week and invited parents to join their kids’ classes.

The school asked moms to participate in students’ hip hop classes on the day before or after Valentine’s Day. Dads were invited to spend the evening of Feb. 14 dancing ballet with their kids.

And the results were nothing short of heartwarming.

Philadelphia Dance Center posted videos and photos of the night to their Facebook page, not expecting the clips to go viral. Within days, a video of dads pointing their toes and lifting their legs to “Waltz of the Flowers” from Tchaikovsky’s “The Nutcracker Suite” racked up more than 9.8 million views.

Another video, viewed more than 400,000 times, showed dads learning how to pirouette across the floor.

The night was a huge success, both on the internet and in real life. After receiving such a big response from Facebook users who liked, shared and commented on the posts, Philadelphia Dance Center posted a message of gratitude to its Facebook Page.