A 7-Year-Old Girl Wrote A Letter To "Google Boss" Sundar Pichai, And He Replied Ever So Sweetly
A 7-Year-Old Girl Wrote A Letter To "Google Boss" Sundar Pichai, And He Replied Ever So Sweetly
This is Chloe Bridgewater, a 7-year-old girl from the UK, and her father Andy. Chloe recently penned a heartfelt letter to “Google Boss” expressing her eventual wish to work with the tech company. As any other serious applicant, Bridgewater mentioned her qualifications, highlighting her efficiency with computer skills and the fact that she loves playing on her tablet. Andy Bridgewater told BuzzFeed that Chloe wanted to work with Google after seeing their offices. Now, obviously the “boss” she was referring to is Google CEO Sundar Pichai. Andy Bridgewater shared a post on LinkedIn , explaining how after Pichai received Chloe’s letter, the CEO surprisingly replied to the letter, and that too, pretty quickly. Here’s the reply in full: Dear Chloe, Thank you so much for your letter. I’m glad that you like computers and robots, and hope you will continue to learn about technology. I think if you keep working hard and following your dreams, you can accomplish everything you set your mind to — from working at Google to swimming in the Olympics. I look forward to receiving your job application when you are finished with school! All the best to you and your family. “Can’t thank such a busy person enough to take time out to make a little girl’s dream become one step closer, although not sure she’s fully aware that it’ll take more than riding go karts and sleeping in pods to make it with Google,” he further wrote in his post. Bridgewater told BuzzFeed that his daughter was in a car accident a few years ago, and that she really felt amazing after receiving Pichai’s reply. “She reacted with amazement and is massively overwhelmed at the reaction, as are we all. She is very excited and wants to continue the chance to work with Google,” he added.   11 Real-Life Couples Who Are ~Actually~ Relationship...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Dear Chloe,

Thank you so much for your letter. I’m glad that you like computers and robots, and hope you will continue to learn about technology. I think if you keep working hard and following your dreams, you can accomplish everything you set your mind to — from working at Google to swimming in the Olympics. I look forward to receiving your job application when you are finished with school!

All the best to you and your family.