FBI Interviews Top U.S. Gymnasts in Intensifying Sexual-Abuse Investigation
FBI Interviews Top U.S. Gymnasts in Intensifying Sexual-Abuse Investigation
Biography Rebecca Davis O’Brien @rebeccadobrien rebecca.obrien@wsj.com Biography Louise Radnofsky @louiseradnofsky Google+ louise.radnofsky@wsj.com Allegations of sexual abuse against the former doctor for the U.S. women’s national gymnastics team languished with various authorities for 10 months before escalating into a federal probe that now involves some of the sport’s biggest stars, according to people familiar with the investigation. Multiple gymnasts from the U.S. team, including members of the gold medal-winning squads in Rio de Janeiro and London, have been interviewed in recent months by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as either patients of the doctor,... Most Popular Videos  Disney Cuts Ties to YouTube Superstar PewDiePie  Turkish Butcher 'Salt Bae' Has the Internet Salivating  Seoul Court Approves Arrest of Samsung Heir   Trump Defends Himself, Rejects Critics on Russia    Tokyo Recycles Old Phones to Make Olympic Medals  Most Popular Articles      Spies Keep Trump in Dark on Intelligence in Sign of Mistrust        Jared Kushner Delivers Critique of CNN to Time Warner Executive        Trump Administration Backs Off Talk of Closer Russia Ties        With $15 Left in the Bank, a Baby Boomer Makes Peace With Less        PewDiePie Says WSJ Took Anti-Semitic Content Out of Context

WSJ's Rebecca Davis O'Brien explains how sexual abuse allegations against the former doctor for the U.S. Women's national gymnastics team has escalated into a federal investigation. She and WSJ's Tanya Rivero discuss lawsuits filed by numerous girls and women against the doctor. Photo: Dave Wasinger/Lansing State Journal

Allegations of sexual abuse against the former doctor for the U.S. women’s national gymnastics team languished with various authorities for 10 months before escalating into a federal probe that now involves some of the sport’s biggest stars, according to people familiar with the investigation.

Multiple gymnasts from the U.S. team, including members of the gold medal-winning squads in Rio de Janeiro and London, have been interviewed in recent months by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as either patients of the doctor,...