'American Horror Story' to Tackle the Most Recent American Horror: the 2016 Election
'American Horror Story' to Tackle the Most Recent American Horror: the 2016 Election
On No. 8, 2016, half of the American population got hit with their darkest American nightmare: Donald Trump being elected president. I mean, what the f*ck?! With leading the pack in trolling Trump on a weekly basis for the last year or so, its high-time we get a more horrific take on this situation. Thanks to Ryan Murphy, brainchild behind FX's series as well as , the worlds of televised horror and IRL horror will meet on Season 7 of , which is said to be drawing inspiration from the 2016 election . On Wednesday night, Murphy was on to drop the bombshell, telling host Andy Cohen, "I don’t have a title but the season when we begin shooting it is going to be about the election that we just went through. So I think that will be interesting for a lot of people." When host Andy Cohen asked if we'd see a Trump on the show, Murphy hit him with a quick "maybe." As of now, there's no idea if this season will be set in the 21st century; word is that Season 7 starts filming in June, and the dynamic Sarah Paulson is on board. Who knows how this will end up looking, though; it surely won't be as cut-and-dry dramatics ala , but how gruesome will an Trump look?!

On No. 8, 2016, half of the American population got hit with their darkest American nightmare: Donald Trump being elected president. I mean, what the f*ck?! With Saturday Night Live leading the pack in trolling Trump on a weekly basis for the last year or so, its high-time we get a more horrific take on this situation. Thanks to Ryan Murphy, brainchild behind FX's American Horror Story series as well as American Crime Story, the worlds of televised horror and IRL horror will meet on Season 7 of American Horror Story, which is said to be drawing inspiration from the 2016 election.

On Wednesday night, Murphy was on Watch What Happens Live to drop the bombshell, telling host Andy Cohen, "I don’t have a title but the season when we begin shooting it is going to be about the election that we just went through. So I think that will be interesting for a lot of people."

When Watch What Happens Live host Andy Cohen asked if we'd see a Trump on the show, Murphy hit him with a quick "maybe."

As of now, there's no idea if this season will be set in the 21st century; word is that Season 7 starts filming in June, and the dynamic Sarah Paulson is on board. Who knows how this will end up looking, though; it surely won't be as cut-and-dry dramatics ala The People v. O.J. Simpson, but how gruesome will an AHS Trump look?!