His Father Sacrificed Life In Kargil War, Now Son Astosh Gets Martyred Fighting Terrorists
Kargil Martyr's Son Follows The Path Of His Father, Sacrifices His Life Fighting For India
Kargil Martyr's Son Follows The Path Of His Father, Sacrifices His Life Fighting For The Country This family is a special one. It has a tradition of braveheart sons sacrificing their lives to save the nation from the enemies. When Gunner Astosh Kumar got martyred while fighting terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, not many people knew that his father, Havildar Lal Sahib, another brave son of the soil was martyred during Kargil War in 1999. Eighteen years later, Gunner Astosh Kumar died while battling militants in Parray Moholla in Hajin area of North Kashmir’s Bandipora district. “Patriotism and sense of sacrifice ran in the blood of Gunner Astosh Kumar. His father Havildar Lal Sahib laid down his life during the Kargil war in 1999 when he was barely a seven-year-old child. His father’s sacrifice only strengthened his resolve to join the Army which he did at the tender age of 19,” Colonel Rajesh Kalia, Defence Spokesman at Srinagar was quoted in DNA. Hailing from Uttar Pradesh's Jaunpur district, Gunner Kumar is survived by his mother Shila Devi. Top Lashkar-e-Toiba commander Abu Haris along with three other militants have also been killed during the encounter.

This family is a special one. It has a tradition of braveheart sons sacrificing their lives to save the nation from the enemies. When Gunner Astosh Kumar got martyred while fighting terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, not many people knew that his father, Havildar Lal Sahib, another brave son of the soil was martyred during Kargil War in 1999.

Eighteen years later, Gunner Astosh Kumar died while battling militants in Parray Moholla in Hajin area of North Kashmir’s Bandipora district.

Gunner Kumar who was serving in 13 Rashtriya Rifle. He was seriously injured and shifted to the 92 Base Hospital in Srinagar where he succumbed.

Gunner Kumar was among the four army men who laid down their lives in two encounters in Hajin and Kralgund in North Kashmir on Tuesday.

“Patriotism and sense of sacrifice ran in the blood of Gunner Astosh Kumar. His father Havildar Lal Sahib laid down his life during the Kargil war in 1999 when he was barely a seven-year-old child. His father’s sacrifice only strengthened his resolve to join the Army which he did at the tender age of 19,” Colonel Rajesh Kalia, Defence Spokesman at Srinagar was quoted in DNA.

Hailing from Uttar Pradesh's Jaunpur district, Gunner Kumar is survived by his mother Shila Devi.

Top Lashkar-e-Toiba commander Abu Haris along with three other militants have also been killed during the encounter.

Don't Miss 35.5 K SHARES 1.8 K SHARES 56.2 K SHARES 95.2 K SHARES 28 K SHARES