They’re Filming The "Love Actually" Reunion Already And The Turtlenecks Are Back
They're Filming The "Love Actually" Reunion Already And The Turtlenecks Are Back
Yesterday the incredible news broke that a short 10-minute sequel, featuring many of the original cast , was being made to raise a lot of money for Red Nose Day. Many of the original cast are returning in this short, including Rowan Atkinson (Rufus), Bill Nighy (Billy Mack), Andrew Lincoln (Mark), Colin Firth (Jamie), Keira Knightley (Juliet), Martine McCutcheon (Natalie) and Hugh Grant (David). Well, they have ALREADY started to film the scenes ahead of the comedy skit’s release at the end of March. Emma Freud, the script editor for , has shared this picture. #rednosedayactually shoot. Day 1. Yum. That’s right. It’s Liam Neeson (Daniel) and Thomas Brodie-Sangster (Sam). The. Turtlenecks. Are. Back. The same goddamn turtleneck that Daniel wore during the actual film. Hot damn. They filmed this scene today. That’s right. So this just happened. #rednosedayactually day 1 of filming. Might have cried a tiny bit. It’s the location where Daniel and Sam talked about Sam’s crush on Joanna (Olivia Olson) in the original. AND THERE IS MORE! Emma Freud also shared this photo of Richard Curtis and a special cast member, first thing this morning. Oh hello #rednosedayactually cast member looking slightly older than she did in the original film.... Who is the woman in the photo? IT’S JOANNA (Olivia Olson). Sam’s love interest in . The one who Sam ran through the whole of Heathrow Airport for when there was really relaxed security for some reason at the end of the film. Speaking on the BBC’s show this morning, Freud said that they’re filming all of the sequel to in just five days and that Liam Neeson looks younger now than when he did in the original film. When asked whether Emma Thompson (Karen) was also going to star in the special, Richard Curtis said: “Oddly, we’re not quite sure. We’ll wait and see.” Curtis and Freud told the BBC that there will never be another feature film, as the only reason why they have done this is to raise money for Red Nose Day, a charity that Curtis and Freud both co-founded. So you see, IS all around.  Red Nose Day Actually will be broadcast on 24 March 2017 on BBC One. It will also be shown during Red Nose Day USA, which will be on NBC on 25 May 2017. 13.  There Is Going To Be A "Love Actually" Reunion For Red Nose Day  buzzfeed.com   Can You Score 15/15 In This Annoyingly Difficult UK...    36 Beautiful Pieces Of Jewellery For Every Birthstone...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

9. Who is the woman in the photo? IT’S JOANNA (Olivia Olson). Sam’s love interest in Love Actually. The one who Sam ran through the whole of Heathrow Airport for when there was really relaxed security for some reason at the end of the film.

Universal Studios

Speaking on the BBC’s Victoria Derbyshire show this morning, Freud said that they’re filming all of the sequel to Love Actually in just five days and that Liam Neeson looks younger now than when he did in the original film.

When asked whether Emma Thompson (Karen) was also going to star in the special, Richard Curtis said: “Oddly, we’re not quite sure. We’ll wait and see.”

Curtis and Freud told the BBC that there will never be another Love Actually feature film, as the only reason why they have done this is to raise money for Red Nose Day, a charity that Curtis and Freud both co-founded.