Vince Young hires agent Leigh Steinberg with eye on comeback
Vince Young hires agent with eye on comeback
Vince Young hires agent with eye on comeback Alabama transfer Blake Barnett may be the Pac-12's biggest wild card Warrants sought in MSU football sex assault case Sources: Pats' Daboll candidate for Bama OC job Liberty football moving from FCS to FBS Strong completes USF staff with Cronin, Cogdell New coach Fleck can 'Row the Boat' with Gophers Ex-Baylor associate AD not indicted for assault Combine invites are another sign of progress at Michigan The Honey Bun surprise: How JaTarvious Whitlow signed with Auburn Massive overhaul on offense puts North Carolina in unique position Oklahoma State's Mike Gundy puts on wrestling singlet Why Da'Shawn Hand is the next (really) big thing at Alabama Full list of 2017 Heisman trophy odds Ohio State is No. 1 in Preseason FPI 1.0 Leonard who? Even without LSU star, SEC loaded at RB for 2017 How Tony Hull engineered a Louisiana recruiting pipeline at Kansas Six SEC coaches facing the most pressure this spring Cowboy Up: Oklahoma State underrated in first FPI ratings Illinois' Lovie Smith getting started early in Year 2 Former Arizona QB Anu Solomon aims to rediscover his touch at Baylor The 10 teams with the easiest 2017 nonconference slates Good luck, Pitt: Panthers have toughest 2017 non-con slate Pat Narduzzi turns to close friend Shawn Watson to take over offense The next great QB prospect might just be J.T. Daniels Will Miami's recruiting classes under Mark Richt mirror his early success at Georgia? If recruiting reforms happen, who benefits? How does Alabama find room for its latest wave of five-stars? Take a tour of Clemson's ridiculously cool new facility Amid whirlwind of change, California searches for new identity Tom Herman has an extensive (and expensive) Texas rebuilding plan No more Mr. Nice Guy for Nebraska's Mike Riley Kansas State coach Snyder has throat cancer Plenty of familiar names join ACC, from Swinney to Roof to Brooks Urban Meyer has everything he needs to keep luring top talent to Ohio State Why LSU, Georgia should temper signing day excitement Which recruiting classes aced signing day? Stephen A. Smith defers to Vince Young's career stats to prove that's it's over for the former QB. (1:51) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers the Big 12 Joined ESPN in 2012 Graduate of the University of Nebraska Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Former NFL quarterback Vince Young has hired agent Leigh Steinberg in an attempt to reboot his football career. Steinberg announced that he signed Young, 33, in a Twitter post on Wednesday, declaring Young has a "dream of playing more football." On Thursday, Steinberg tweeted that he was in negotiations with the Saskatchewan Roughriders of the CFL regarding Young. Young, the former star at Texas , has not played in an NFL regular-season game since 2011. He retired from football in 2014. #VinceYoung Welcome new client @VinceYoung10 who has dream of playing more football,being role model @Longhorn_FB  @LonghornNetwork — Leigh Steinberg (@leighsteinberg) February 15, 2017 WELCOME NEW CLIENT QB @VINCEYOUNG10  @Longhorn_FB  @LonghornNetwork  @UTAustin  #HookEm  #Texas  pic.twitter.com/GDIoN0c2TG — Leigh Steinberg (@leighsteinberg) February 15, 2017 The Spring League, an independent four-team football league made up of free agents that debuts in April, has publicly expressed interest in adding Young, the former No. 3 overall pick who earned rookie of the year honors and made the Pro Bowl in 2006 and 2009 during his six years in the NFL. Young last attempted a comeback in 2014, a brief offseason stint with the Cleveland Browns . He signed following a minicamp tryout but was cut days after the Browns drafted Johnny Manziel . Before that, Young was cut by the Green Bay Packers in the preseason in 2013. Young works for the University of Texas as a development officer in its division of diversity and community engagement. He returned to his alma mater, where he led the Longhorns to a national championship in 2005, following his retirement and took a position specifically created for him that pays $100,000 annually. Young was sentenced to 18 months of probation in January after pleading no contest to a DWI charge. He was fined $300 and ordered to complete 60 hours of community service to resolve his case after a January 2016 arrest in Austin. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Stephen A. Smith defers to Vince Young's career stats to prove that's it's over for the former QB. (1:51)

Former NFL quarterback Vince Young has hired agent Leigh Steinberg in an attempt to reboot his football career.

Steinberg announced that he signed Young, 33, in a Twitter post on Wednesday, declaring Young has a "dream of playing more football."

On Thursday, Steinberg tweeted that he was in negotiations with the Saskatchewan Roughriders of the CFL regarding Young.

Young, the former star at Texas, has not played in an NFL regular-season game since 2011. He retired from football in 2014.

The Spring League, an independent four-team football league made up of free agents that debuts in April, has publicly expressed interest in adding Young, the former No. 3 overall pick who earned rookie of the year honors and made the Pro Bowl in 2006 and 2009 during his six years in the NFL.

Young last attempted a comeback in 2014, a brief offseason stint with the Cleveland Browns. He signed following a minicamp tryout but was cut days after the Browns drafted Johnny Manziel. Before that, Young was cut by the Green Bay Packers in the preseason in 2013.

Editor's Picks Former QB Young gets probation for DWI arrest Vince Young, the former Texas Longhorns star and NFL quarterback, was sentenced to 18 months of probation for a drunken-driving arrest in January 2016.

Young works for the University of Texas as a development officer in its division of diversity and community engagement.

He returned to his alma mater, where he led the Longhorns to a national championship in 2005, following his retirement and took a position specifically created for him that pays $100,000 annually.

Young was sentenced to 18 months of probation in January after pleading no contest to a DWI charge. He was fined $300 and ordered to complete 60 hours of community service to resolve his case after a January 2016 arrest in Austin.