Stephen Colbert Accuses Trump in a ‘Usual Suspects’ Parody
Stephen Colbert Accuses Trump in a ‘Usual Suspects’ Parody
. Colbert Sees ‘Something Weird Going On’ Stephen Colbert began “The Late Show” on Wednesday night by turning “The Usual Suspects” into a thriller about Trump campaign aides’ contacts with Russian officials. Under interrogation by Chazz Palminteri’s detective, Mr. Colbert argued that evidence of Mr. Trump colluding with the Russians was right under his nose. “You’re just not listening! I’ve been telling you for like a year! There’s something weird going on between Trump and the Russians!” Mr. Colbert said. It’s a bold claim, but two days after the resignation of Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser, the topic was too big for the late-night shows to avoid. Wondering About Trump “We do know that Trump’s campaign was talking to the Russians a lot, and ‘the frequency of the communication and the proximity to Trump of those involved “raised a red flag” with U.S. intelligence.’ Yes, intelligence were worried that once he got in the White House, he might raise a red flag.” — , recalling some Cold War colors “Mike Pence is forcing Trump to get his back tattoo of Putin removed. There are consequences! Yeah, that’s a ‘Trump stamp.’” — “The story is all over cable news, and Trump is not happy about it. In fact he went on Twitter this morning and said that MSNBC and CNN are unwatchable. Then he said, ‘And I know, because I spend all day watching them.’” — “Here’s the thing: It can’t be both fake news and an illegal leak of classified information. ‘Your honor, I did not murder that man. The real criminal is whoever filmed me strangling him.’” — And Already Joking About a Successor “Pence apparently was one of the last people to find out that Flynn had lied. According to The Times, Pence was kept in the dark and did not learn that Flynn had misled him about his Russia contacts until reading news accounts late last week. He had to read it in the newspaper. So, that’s comforting. At least our next president reads the newspaper.” — Laura Dern’s Hands Are Tied The hosts talked a lot about the president during their opening monologues, but hardly any of their guests got political. That was a welcome change of pace; sometimes it feels almost impossible to escape conversations about this administration. In just about the most apolitical and lighthearted moment imaginable, James Corden challenged the always-effusive Laura Dern to speak without using her hands. Zach Galifianakis was, ahem, on hand, so he helped out. The Punchiest Punchlines (Touchy-Feely Edition) “In the middle of all this insanity, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited the White House. As a courtesy, Trump asked his staff to put a 24-hour hold on retweeting neo-Nazis. That’s just good manners.” — “We are only one menstrual cycle into this presidency and there is blood in the water.” — “We just learned from multiple intelligence sources that Trump aides were in ‘constant touch’ with senior Russian officials during the campaign. ‘Constant touch,’ by the way, is also Trump’s Secret Service code name. ‘I got Constant Touch on the move. Constant Touch is on the move. Constant Touch. Constant Touch is coming backstage — hide the girls.’” — The Bits Worth Watching What We’re Excited About on Thursday Night Tracy Morgan is on a comeback. He’s been making the rounds on the late-night shows, promoting his new film “Fist Fight” and reflecting on surviving the 2014 car crash that left him in a coma. He’s been in fine form, and the same is likely to be true when he appears with Seth Meyers tomorrow night. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. BEST OF LATE NIGHT    BEST OF LATE NIGHT    BEST OF LATE NIGHT

Photo

Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the funniest jokes and videos and the sharpest monologues and parodies from the comedy shows. We’ve got your back: You need sleep, after all, and something to smile about, while we’re getting paid to watch late night, which is insane.

Do you like this feature? What else are you interested in? Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.

Colbert Sees ‘Something Weird Going On’

Stephen Colbert began “The Late Show” on Wednesday night by turning “The Usual Suspects” into a thriller about Trump campaign aides’ contacts with Russian officials. Under interrogation by Chazz Palminteri’s detective, Mr. Colbert argued that evidence of Mr. Trump colluding with the Russians was right under his nose.

“You’re just not listening! I’ve been telling you for like a year! There’s something weird going on between Trump and the Russians!” Mr. Colbert said. It’s a bold claim, but two days after the resignation of Michael T. Flynn as national security adviser, the topic was too big for the late-night shows to avoid.

Wondering About Trump

“We do know that Trump’s campaign was talking to the Russians a lot, and ‘the frequency of the communication and the proximity to Trump of those involved “raised a red flag” with U.S. intelligence.’ Yes, intelligence were worried that once he got in the White House, he might raise a red flag.” — COLBERT, recalling some Cold War colors “Mike Pence is forcing Trump to get his back tattoo of Putin removed. There are consequences! Yeah, that’s a ‘Trump stamp.’” — TREVOR NOAH “The story is all over cable news, and Trump is not happy about it. In fact he went on Twitter this morning and said that MSNBC and CNN are unwatchable. Then he said, ‘And I know, because I spend all day watching them.’” — JIMMY FALLON “Here’s the thing: It can’t be both fake news and an illegal leak of classified information. ‘Your honor, I did not murder that man. The real criminal is whoever filmed me strangling him.’” — COLBERT

And Already Joking About a Successor

“Pence apparently was one of the last people to find out that Flynn had lied. According to The Times, Pence was kept in the dark and did not learn that Flynn had misled him about his Russia contacts until reading news accounts late last week. He had to read it in the newspaper. So, that’s comforting. At least our next president reads the newspaper.” — SETH MEYERS

Laura Dern’s Hands Are Tied

The hosts talked a lot about the president during their opening monologues, but hardly any of their guests got political. That was a welcome change of pace; sometimes it feels almost impossible to escape conversations about this administration.

In just about the most apolitical and lighthearted moment imaginable, James Corden challenged the always-effusive Laura Dern to speak without using her hands. Zach Galifianakis was, ahem, on hand, so he helped out.

The Punchiest Punchlines (Touchy-Feely Edition)

“In the middle of all this insanity, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited the White House. As a courtesy, Trump asked his staff to put a 24-hour hold on retweeting neo-Nazis. That’s just good manners.” — COLBERT “We are only one menstrual cycle into this presidency and there is blood in the water.” — SAMANTHA BEE “We just learned from multiple intelligence sources that Trump aides were in ‘constant touch’ with senior Russian officials during the campaign. ‘Constant touch,’ by the way, is also Trump’s Secret Service code name. ‘I got Constant Touch on the move. Constant Touch is on the move. Constant Touch. Constant Touch is coming backstage — hide the girls.’” — COLBERT

The Bits Worth Watching

What We’re Excited About on Thursday Night

Tracy Morgan is on a comeback. He’s been making the rounds on the late-night shows, promoting his new film “Fist Fight” and reflecting on surviving the 2014 car crash that left him in a coma. He’s been in fine form, and the same is likely to be true when he appears with Seth Meyers tomorrow night.