Donald Trump, NATO, Boeing: Your Thursday Briefing
Donald Trump, NATO, Boeing: Your Thursday Briefing
President Trump may ask Stephen A. Feinberg, a billionaire investor and a member of his economic advisory council, to lead an assessment of spy operations. The possibility has top intelligence officials on edge and fearing that a review by a Trump ally with no intelligence experience would stifle their independence. The president has blamed leaks from the agencies for the departure of Michael T. Flynn, his national security adviser, and for reports that aides met repeatedly with Russian intelligence officials during the 2016 campaign. Russia dismissed those reports. During a news conference with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, Mr. Trump said that he could “live with” a one-state option for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, discarding the approach that underpinned the U.S. role in Middle East peacemaking for decades. Advertisement Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson was not present, as he was traveling to Germany for a meeting of Group of 20 foreign ministers today. He has kept a low profile since being confirmed. Advertisement And in Brussels, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said the U.S. could “moderate its commitment” to NATO if members do not increase military spending. His comments came as American troops arrived in Bulgaria for an Atlantic alliance operation. Two women and a man have been detained in Malaysia in connection with the assassination of Kim Jong-nam, the North Korean leader’s eldest sibling.The police are said to also be searching for four male suspects, suggesting a wider plot. Mr. Kim was never fully accepted by his family, and he spent much of his life abroad . Jeanette Vizguerra, an undocumented immigrant living in Denver , faces a tough choice: present herself to the authorities and risk deportation, or stay indefinitely in a church, where federal agents are not supposed to enter. “I could be here days, months, maybe even years,” she said. We’ll follow her story in the coming days. Today’s show asks, did the Trump campaign collude with Russia? Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Listen from a computer , on an iOS device or on an Android device . Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business in South Carolina rejected forming a union on Wednesday, in what was viewed as an early test of labor’s strength in the Trump era. The failed bid came after President Trump’s choice to run the Labor Department, Andrew F. Puzder , withdrew his nomination. Advertisement scientists have won rights to a powerful gene-editing technique , the Patent and Trademark Office ruled on Wednesday. It was a blow to the University of California, Berkeley, often said to be the birthplace of the technique. Two start-ups are competing in the unlikely field of cat wines (think nonalcoholic, catnip-laced water). Our reporter’s taste test showed that wine seems to be more fun for humans than felines. were up on Wednesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living  , we suggested building support systems to pursue your resolutions , and asked for your ideas. The most common tactics by far involved smartphones. A few of your suggestions: Runkeeper to set reminders and goals for running, Habitica to “gamify” tasks, MyNetDiary to track calorie intake and Inner Balance for mindfulness. Another theme revolved around sleep — tracking it, getting more of it or timing it differently. Check out our Sleep guide to develop the right routine. We’ll be back on Monday with Week 4 of resolution month. Our food editors have a new feature, “ The New Essentials of French Cooking ,” a next-generation cookbook to help you perfect classic dishes. Noteworthy A rare disease spread by rat urine has killed one person and left two more seriously ill. The case shed new light on rodent problems in some buildings. Advertisement “It’s like someone has to die for anyone to pay attention,” one resident said. The Bees That Give You Almonds A mesmerizing look inside the beehives and pollination operation of a third-generation commercial beekeeper as he ships his bees across California for almond season.      Our 360 video takes a look inside the beehives and pollination operation of a beekeeper as he ships his bees across California for almond season. Nazi Germany wasn’t the only thing on Winston Churchill’s mind as Britain entered World War II. In a newly unearthed essay , he pondered the likelihood of life on other planets. Stephen Colbert began “The Late Show” on Wednesday with a skit turning “The Usual Suspects” into a Trump campaign thriller. He tries to convince a detective that “There’s something weird going on between Trump and the Russians!” Back Story Rumor, a German shepherd, won the top prize at this week’s venerable Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. One hundred years earlier, another member of the breed was honored at the New York City show. Filax of Lewanno earned a bravery award for rescuing 54 wounded soldiers in World War I. Unlike Rumor, Filax didn’t win the best in show award — that honor went to Conejo Wycollar Boy , a wire-haired fox terrier. New Yorkers were familiar with German shepherds by then. A police inspector brought some back to New York from Belgium in the early 1900s, according to a 1929 article in The Times, and the breed filled the city’s first police canine squad. Rex, Pup, Nogy and Flora von Berlin were mentioned in the article for their pursuit of the Staten Island “pants burglar.” German shepherds were bred in the late 19th century. During World War I, shepherds like Filax carried first-aid kits, pulled wounded soldiers on stretchers and delivered messages. Some of the dogs later served as guides for the blind. Advertisement One, Rin Tin Tin, even became a movie star in police dog roles. Clearly, he was a good actor: In 1928, the dog slept through a burglary . An earlier version of this briefing misstated Winston Churchill’s role in 1939. He was in the wartime cabinet, not Britain’s leader. (He became prime minister in 1940.) We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Listen from a computer, on an iOS device or on an Android device.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• Boeing workers in South Carolina rejected forming a union on Wednesday, in what was viewed as an early test of labor’s strength in the Trump era.

The failed bid came after President Trump’s choice to run the Labor Department, Andrew F. Puzder, withdrew his nomination.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Harvard and M.I.T. scientists have won rights to a powerful gene-editing technique, the Patent and Trademark Office ruled on Wednesday. It was a blow to the University of California, Berkeley, often said to be the birthplace of the technique.

Photo

• Happy hour for cats? Two start-ups are competing in the unlikely field of cat wines (think nonalcoholic, catnip-laced water).

Our reporter’s taste test showed that wine seems to be more fun for humans than felines.

• U.S. stocks were up on Wednesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• On Monday, we suggested building support systems to pursue your resolutions, and asked for your ideas.

The most common tactics by far involved smartphones. A few of your suggestions: Runkeeper to set reminders and goals for running, Habitica to “gamify” tasks, MyNetDiary to track calorie intake and Inner Balance for mindfulness.

Another theme revolved around sleep — tracking it, getting more of it or timing it differently. Check out our Sleep guide to develop the right routine.

We’ll be back on Monday with Week 4 of resolution month.

• From omelets to cassoulet: Our food editors have a new feature, “The New Essentials of French Cooking,” a next-generation cookbook to help you perfect classic dishes.

Noteworthy

• A Bronx block, plagued by rats.

A rare disease spread by rat urine has killed one person and left two more seriously ill. The case shed new light on rodent problems in some buildings.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s like someone has to die for anyone to pay attention,” one resident said.

• Business of bees.

Video

Our 360 video takes a look inside the beehives and pollination operation of a beekeeper as he ships his bees across California for almond season.

Photo

• “Are We Alone in the Universe?” Churchill asked.

Nazi Germany wasn’t the only thing on Winston Churchill’s mind as Britain entered World War II. In a newly unearthed essay, he pondered the likelihood of life on other planets.

• Best of late-night TV.

Stephen Colbert began “The Late Show” on Wednesday with a skit turning “The Usual Suspects” into a Trump campaign thriller. He tries to convince a detective that “There’s something weird going on between Trump and the Russians!”

Back Story

Rumor, a German shepherd, won the top prize at this week’s venerable Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show.

One hundred years earlier, another member of the breed was honored at the New York City show.

Photo

Filax of Lewanno earned a bravery award for rescuing 54 wounded soldiers in World War I. Unlike Rumor, Filax didn’t win the best in show award — that honor went to Conejo Wycollar Boy, a wire-haired fox terrier.

New Yorkers were familiar with German shepherds by then. A police inspector brought some back to New York from Belgium in the early 1900s, according to a 1929 article in The Times, and the breed filled the city’s first police canine squad. Rex, Pup, Nogy and Flora von Berlin were mentioned in the article for their pursuit of the Staten Island “pants burglar.”

German shepherds were bred in the late 19th century. During World War I, shepherds like Filax carried first-aid kits, pulled wounded soldiers on stretchers and delivered messages. Some of the dogs later served as guides for the blind.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One, Rin Tin Tin, even became a movie star in police dog roles. Clearly, he was a good actor: In 1928, the dog slept through a burglary.

Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.