Take That Amazon: Walmart Buys Moosejaw For $51 Million
Take That Amazon: Walmart Buys Moosejaw For $51 Million
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Laura Heller       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. SKOKIE, IL - JANUARY 17: Customers shop at a Walmart store on January 17, 2017 in Skokie, Illinois. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images) Walmart has purchased Moosejaw for $51 million, a move aimed squarely at besting Amazon in the apparel and sporting goods categories as the battle heats up . The past year has seen outdoor retailers flounder. Sports Authority was liquidated in May 2016 after failing to find a buyer. Eastern Mountain Sports filed for bankruptcy last week and Gander Mountain is said to be near a bankruptcy filing , according to several reports. Cabelas is being acquired by Bass Pro Shops (although the deal is not yet done ) and strong athletic brands including Under Armour are having trouble competing. There's a big hole in the retail landscape here that provides Walmart entry into a critical category: apparel. Moosejaw carries more 400 apparel brands in addition to outdoor gear. These existing vendor relationships are important to Walmart as it tries to grow the category. Moosejaw also has a reputation as a quirky brand and leader in social media marketing, keys to winning with Millennials and not a real strength for Walmart. "Apparel and accessories is now the number one category for digital commerce, according to comScore, and we gain the experience of another well-established e-commerce player, this time in the active outdoor category," Walmart said in a statement . "Moosejaw has a large assortment of specialty apparel and accessories, strong industry relationships, and rich product content. Their expertise will help us further enhance our customer experience."    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Walmart has purchased Moosejaw for $51 million, a move aimed squarely at besting Amazon in the apparel and sporting goods categories as the battle heats up. Walmart will now have a presence in a category reeling from consolidation and disruption.

Moosejaw is largely an online seller of outdoor gear and activewear, with 10 brick-and-mortar locations.

The past year has seen outdoor retailers flounder. Sports Authority was liquidated in May 2016 after failing to find a buyer. Eastern Mountain Sports filed for bankruptcy last week and Gander Mountain is said to be near a bankruptcy filing, according to several reports.

Cabelas is being acquired by Bass Pro Shops (although the deal is not yet done) and strong athletic brands including Under Armour are having trouble competing.

There's a big hole in the retail landscape here that provides Walmart entry into a critical category: apparel.

Moosejaw carries more 400 apparel brands in addition to outdoor gear. These existing vendor relationships are important to Walmart as it tries to grow the category. Moosejaw also has a reputation as a quirky brand and leader in social media marketing, keys to winning with Millennials and not a real strength for Walmart.

"Apparel and accessories is now the number one category for digital commerce, according to comScore, and we gain the experience of another well-established e-commerce player, this time in the active outdoor category," Walmart said in a statement. "Moosejaw has a large assortment of specialty apparel and accessories, strong industry relationships, and rich product content. Their expertise will help us further enhance our customer experience."