Lorde new album release date hinted at by record label
Lorde new album release date hinted at by record label
Since bursting onto the scene in 2013 with the single “Royals” and album , Lorde ’s musical output has remained rather minimal. Thanks to Republic Records, however, we may finally know when to expect the singer’s first new music since her input on soundtrack (and a feature with Disclosure). The label’s website listed new Lorde music as a point of discussion in an upcoming meeting on the 21 February, detailing a release date of 7 March. 911 POP MUSIC EMERGENCY NEW LORDE MUSIC COMING OUT ON MARCH 7TH pic.twitter.com/tvjGxiIsu2 Many fans believe we can expect the singer to release a new single on the date, the album thought to be coming later this Spring. Recently, Lorde announced her first full performance in three years at Coachella Fetival, with further festival dates announced later on. The 20-year-old also t eased fans about forming a supergroup with Charlie XCX and Carly Rae Jepsen, writing on Twitter alongside an image of the trio: “Can we form a hot girl band one day?” The 20 most ridiculous things superstar musicians have demanded at their concerts               The 20 most ridiculous things superstar musicians have demanded at their concerts    Beyonce   The Demands:

1 Large table for catering dressed with white tablecloths.

Dressing room should be 78 degrees

4 Brand New White Towels in bathroom (2 face & 2 body)

Hot Food: 

Juicy Baked Chicken: Legs, Wings & Breast only (Please season with fresh garlic, season salt, black pepper, and Cayenne pepper HEAVILY SEASONED!!)

Steamed Garlic Broccoli

Lightly Seasoned Green Beans

Lightly Seasoned Steamed Spinach 

Beyoncé can only have Pepsi products.

1 Case of Aquafina water (half cold, half room temperature)

1 Hot Tea Set up (Please have NEW Coffee Pot)

Sliced Lemons Wedges

Rose scented candles

Lighter for candles

CD player   Getty     Adele   The Demands: 

12 Small bottles still (non-carbonated) spring water (at room temperature)

1 Electric kettle for BOILING water

6 Large mugs for tea. All mugs should be new, washed and dried.

6 metal teaspoons

2 “Squeezy” bottles clear honey (not organic) 

1 Bottle very best quality red wine (Italian, French or Spanish)

1 Assortment of chewing gum

1 Pack Marlboro Light plus 1 disposable cigarette lighter

1 Small selection fresh fruit, to include bananas, apples, grapes, fresh berries NO CITRUS FRUIT!

1 Small plate of assorted freshly made, individually wrapped sandwiches, to include chicken salad. Sandwiches must NOT contain tomatoes, vinegar, chili or citrus fruit   PA     Kanye West   The Demands:

1 Tub Plain Yogurt for dipping

4 small Yoplait Yogurt 

1 Bowl of assorted nuts

1 Bowl of Sunkist Salted Pistachio Nuts (No Red Coloring)

2 Packs of Extra Chewing Gum

1 Bottle of Hot Sauce (Tabasco, Caribbean Type)

1 Box of Toothpicks

1 750 ml bottle of Hennessey Liquor

1 750 ml bottle of SKY or Absolut Vodka

1 Bottle of Patron Silver Tequila

4 Six Packs of Heineken Beer   Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty, David Parsons/iStock     Rihanna   The Demands:

5 AC power outlets

Adequate lighting for a “relaxed atmosphere”

White drapes to cover lockers and/or brick

1 Humidifier

1 Large throw rug — plush and animal print (Cheetah, Leopard) … must be CLEAN, as she will walk on it barefoot.

Pipe and Drape the room in Dark Blue or Black drapes with Icy Blue Chiffon draped nicely on top

6 Candles — Archipelago Black Forest (if you can't get these, please let me know ASAP as we have a 2nd choice of candle for Ri).

4 Small, clear, square vases with White Tulips, no foliage (2nd choice: White Casablanca Lilies no foliage, 3rd choice: White Freesia, no foliage)      Katy Perry   The Demands:

Arrangement of pink fresh flowers. White and purple hydrangeas, pink & white roses and peonies. If not available, seasonal white flowers to include white orchids–ABSOLUTELY NO CARNATIONS.

A box of Huggies baby nature care wipes

6 Vitamin waters zero, assorted flavors

Bowl of whole fresh organic grown fruit (apples, bananas, oranges and grapes)

Plate of fresh-cut Crudités (to include cucumber, broccoli, cauliflower, carrots, snap peas, celery) w/ ranch dip

Snyder's of Hanover Honey Mustard & Onion Pretzel

Jar of Salsa

Baked (blue corn if possible) Tortilla Chips

Freeze dried strawberries

2 bottles of Santa Margarita Pinot Grigio

Throat coat, Twinnings Chamomile PG tips and Mint medley tea.

Fuze slenderize assorted flavors

A jar of quality honey

Plastic drinking straws   AFP/Getty Images     Paul McCartney   The Demands: 

All lamps must be halogen floor lamps with dimmer switch.

Only animal free materials (cottons, denims, velour, etc.)

Do not provide furniture made of any animal skin or print.

Do not provide artificial versions of animal skin or print either.

No leather seating is allowed in the black stretch limousine either.

Arrange for a dry cleaner before arrival.

6 Full and leafy floor plants, but no trees.

We want plants that are just as full on the bottom as the top such as palm, bamboo, peace lilies, etc. No tree trunks!

$50.00 - One large arrangement of white Casablanca lilies with lots of foliage.

$40.00 - One long stemmed arrangement of pale pink and white roses with lots of foliage.

$35 One arrangement of freesia. It comes in various colors so please mix them up. Freesia is a favorite.

20 dozen clean towels outside of the production office   AP     Mariah Carey   The Demands:

Each room must be draped. Black drapes are fine.

The entry door should open into the living room space, not the dressing room.

Temperature should be about 75 degrees.

1 Three Seat Couch — Plain Color, no busy patterns; black, dark grey, cream, dark pink are fine

12 1 Liters of Fiji Water

3 Bottles Chardonnay — Chilled

12 Coke

12 Diet Coke

12 Vanilla Protein Drinks

6 Sparkling Water (Pellegrino)

12 Melon Flavor Gatorade

6 Red Wine Glasses

6 White Wine Glasses

4 Joe Malone Vanilla Candles

2 Vases White Roses

Fried Chicken (warm)

12 Small Bottles water (room temperature)

3 Whole lemons and honey

Sugarless gum   Getty     Eminem   The Demands: 

25 pound dumbbells

24-Diet Coke 16oz plastic bottles

12 Diet Coke 12oz cans

6 Verner ginger ale soda (or Schweppes)

48 Daisani, Poland Spring 12oz bottles “NO Evian”

1 Loaf white bread 

1 Loaf wheat bread

6 Lunchables snacks (3 turkeys & 3 ham with cheese)

6 Cans Red Bull

16 Cans Sugar-Free Red Bull

Large fresh jumbo shrimps with cocktail sauce and plenty of lemons

1 Jar of banana pepper rings   Getty Images     Grace Jones​   The Demands:

6 Bottles of Louis Roederer Cristal Champagne

3 Bottles of French Vintage red wine (e.g. St Emilion, Medoc, Bordeaux)

3 Bottles of French Vintage white wine (e.g. Sancerre, Pouilly Fuisse)

2 Dozen Findeclare or Colchester Oysters on ice (unopened)—(Grace does her own shucking.)

2 Sashimi and Sushi platters for 8 people

6 Fresh lemons

1 Bottle of Tabasco sauce

1 Fresh fruit platter for 8 people

6 Bottles of Coca Cola

12 Bottles of still and sparkling water

12 Bottles of fresh fruit juices

Wine glasses, champagne flutes, tumblers (all glass, no plastic)

Cutlery and sharp knife

1 Oyster knife

1 Make up mirror (no neon strip lighting, only opaque white bulbs)

Fresh towels, clothes hangers, clothes rail

3-4 Bunches of flowers—prefer lilys and orchids

Sofa and arm chairs   Andy Sturmey     Drake   The Demands: 

Four dozen natural-scented incense sticks 

Dr. Bronner’s peppermint soap

Pork-free food

E-Z Wider rolling papers and a pack of Dutch Master President cigars

Pinot Grigio

Heineken

Bottles of Jack Daniel’s

Patron Silver tequila

Nivea chapstick

A bottle of Hennesey or Courvoisier

Grey Goose

Andis T-Outliner trimmers

Extra sets of speakers   champagnepapi/Instagram     Jack White   The Demands:

1 dozen chicken wings (buffalo, teryaki, suprise us)

1 bowl of FRESH HOME-MADE GUACAMOLE 

8 champagne flutes (real glass)

8 wine glasses (real glass)

8 highball glasses (real glass)

1 hummus & pita chips

iPod player with sufficient volume control

NO fluorescent lighting

PLEASE NOTE: This is a NO BANANA TOUR. (Seriously)   Getty     Madonna   The Demands:

200-person entourage

2o international phone lines

Her backstage room must look exactly like her own home (that means she ships around her furniture)

Special flower-scented fabric

Actual flowers

Personal chef who prepares only vegan foods

Her own dry-cleaning service   AP     Alicia Keys   Alicia Keys performs at the UEFA Champions League Final   Getty     Jay Z   The Demands:  

7 sets of metal silverware

1 Lighter

3 Glade Candles (French Vanilla, Rain shower, Wild Berry, Tangerine Ginger)

3 Cans of Chunk White Tuna

10 Nutri-Grain Bars (Blueberry, Cherry, Apple, Strawberry)

6 Individual Packets of Quaker Oats Instant Oatmeal (Brown Sugar and Apple Cinnamon)

1 Assorted Fruit Platter with strawberries, seedless red grapes, bananas, mango, blueberries, cantaloupe and raspberries

2 Cases of beer (one imported and one domestic; brands preferred: Amstel Light, Corona, Bud, Bud Light or local beer)

3 menus for local seafood and Italian restaurants to order meals for Alicia   Getty     Mary J. Blige​   The Demands:

2 Humidifiers

10 medium prewashed bath sized towels

NO DAIRY OR PORK OF ANY KIND!!

10 1.5 liter bottles of FIJI water (absolutely, positively must be FIJI)

6 cans of Diet Dr. Pepper

6 cans of Schweeps Ginger Ale

2 packs of Mentos — cinnamon fresh only

6 cans of Red Bull energy drink

6 bottles of Black Cherry Propells in sports bottle

8 sets of silverware

24 napkins

1 tub of clean ice   Getty Images     Lady Gaga   The Demands: 

2 Bottles of white wine with wine opener — Kendall Jackson or Robert Mondavi preferred

1 Pack of Straws

1 Cushioned office style chair

TV with cable and a DVD player

1 Rolling clothing rack 

4 Unscented candles

Cool-mist humidifier

3 fans

Tea kettle, organic ginger and lemongrass tea and honey are very important.

1 4 pack of Red Bull Light (on ice)

2 Bottles of Green Tea

1 Container of Guacamole

Hot dogs (Yves veggie dogs eaten with toothpicks)

A smoothie station (with frozen berries, fuze and whey protein or non-fat Greek yogurt) Blender needed

1 Plate of cheese (non-smelly, non-sweaty on ice) with whole wheat/healthy crackers

A mix of assorted fresh fruit (cut and must have edible skin OR edible seeds OR citrus)   Getty     Cher   The Demands:

1 Wig Room

1 Room for Dr. Stacey

1 bottle of fine red wine (No Kendall Jackson)

1 bottle of fine white wine (No Kendall Jackson)

4 Cokes

4 Diet Cokes

1 coffee table

1 end table for the phone to be placed on

TV with VCR with a cable Hook up. Please make sure we can get the following channels: Turner Classic Movies or AMC      Taylor Swift   The Demands:

If arriving before 11 a.m., the following from Starbucks:

1 Grande ICED Caramel Latte w/ 2 sweet-n-lows

1 Grande ICED Americano w/ 2 sweet-n-lows with soy milk

1 slice pumpkin loaf

1 Stick Butter

3 Boxes Kraft Macaroni/Cheese

2 Four Packs of Red Bull

1 12 Pack Corona Beer

1 12 Pack New Castle Beer

1 Bottle Welch's Grape Juice

1 Avocado

1 Bag of Twizzlers red licorice

1 Case of Smart Water

1 Pint Ben & Jerry's Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Ice Cream

1 Pint Ben & Jerry's Chocolate Brownie Frozen Yogurt      Iggy Pop   The Demands:

A copy of USA Today that's got a story about morbidly obese people in it

6 bottles of Grolsch or decent local beer

F——— loads of good red wines

6 large bottles of good quality sparkling water

3 cases x 12 oz bottles of still mineral water

6 bottles of alcohol free beer

1 case of big bottles of good, premium beer

A bottle of vodka

Cauliflower/broccoli, cut into individual florets and thrown immediately into the garbage. I f——— hate that   Getty Images     Van Halen   The Demands:

Nuts 

Pretzels

M&MS (WARNING: ABSOLUTELY NO BROWN ONES)

1 large tube of KY jelly

3 packs of Marlboro cigarettes (box)

Herring in sour cream

2 gallons non-carbonated, bottled spring water

3 fifths Jack Daniels Black Label bourbon

2 fifths Stolichnaya vodka

1 pint Southern Comfort

2 bottles Blue Nun white wine   Getty Images  As yet, there has been no confirmation of release date for Lorde’s upcoming album. When we know, we’ll update accordingly. More about: Lorde Comments

1/20 Beyonce The Demands: 1 Large table for catering dressed with white tablecloths. Dressing room should be 78 degrees 4 Brand New White Towels in bathroom (2 face & 2 body) Hot Food: Juicy Baked Chicken: Legs, Wings & Breast only (Please season with fresh garlic, season salt, black pepper, and Cayenne pepper HEAVILY SEASONED!!) Steamed Garlic Broccoli Lightly Seasoned Green Beans Lightly Seasoned Steamed Spinach Beyoncé can only have Pepsi products. 1 Case of Aquafina water (half cold, half room temperature) 1 Hot Tea Set up (Please have NEW Coffee Pot) Sliced Lemons Wedges Rose scented candles Lighter for candles CD player Getty

2/20 Adele The Demands: 12 Small bottles still (non-carbonated) spring water (at room temperature) 1 Electric kettle for BOILING water 6 Large mugs for tea. All mugs should be new, washed and dried. 6 metal teaspoons 2 “Squeezy” bottles clear honey (not organic) 1 Bottle very best quality red wine (Italian, French or Spanish) 1 Assortment of chewing gum 1 Pack Marlboro Light plus 1 disposable cigarette lighter 1 Small selection fresh fruit, to include bananas, apples, grapes, fresh berries NO CITRUS FRUIT! 1 Small plate of assorted freshly made, individually wrapped sandwiches, to include chicken salad. Sandwiches must NOT contain tomatoes, vinegar, chili or citrus fruit PA

3/20 Kanye West The Demands: 1 Tub Plain Yogurt for dipping 4 small Yoplait Yogurt 1 Bowl of assorted nuts 1 Bowl of Sunkist Salted Pistachio Nuts (No Red Coloring) 2 Packs of Extra Chewing Gum 1 Bottle of Hot Sauce (Tabasco, Caribbean Type) 1 Box of Toothpicks 1 750 ml bottle of Hennessey Liquor 1 750 ml bottle of SKY or Absolut Vodka 1 Bottle of Patron Silver Tequila 4 Six Packs of Heineken Beer Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty, David Parsons/iStock

4/20 Rihanna The Demands: 5 AC power outlets Adequate lighting for a “relaxed atmosphere” White drapes to cover lockers and/or brick 1 Humidifier 1 Large throw rug — plush and animal print (Cheetah, Leopard) … must be CLEAN, as she will walk on it barefoot. Pipe and Drape the room in Dark Blue or Black drapes with Icy Blue Chiffon draped nicely on top 6 Candles — Archipelago Black Forest (if you can't get these, please let me know ASAP as we have a 2nd choice of candle for Ri). 4 Small, clear, square vases with White Tulips, no foliage (2nd choice: White Casablanca Lilies no foliage, 3rd choice: White Freesia, no foliage)

5/20 Katy Perry The Demands: Arrangement of pink fresh flowers. White and purple hydrangeas, pink & white roses and peonies. If not available, seasonal white flowers to include white orchids–ABSOLUTELY NO CARNATIONS. A box of Huggies baby nature care wipes 6 Vitamin waters zero, assorted flavors Bowl of whole fresh organic grown fruit (apples, bananas, oranges and grapes) Plate of fresh-cut Crudités (to include cucumber, broccoli, cauliflower, carrots, snap peas, celery) w/ ranch dip Snyder's of Hanover Honey Mustard & Onion Pretzel Jar of Salsa Baked (blue corn if possible) Tortilla Chips Freeze dried strawberries 2 bottles of Santa Margarita Pinot Grigio Throat coat, Twinnings Chamomile PG tips and Mint medley tea. Fuze slenderize assorted flavors A jar of quality honey Plastic drinking straws AFP/Getty Images

6/20 Paul McCartney The Demands: All lamps must be halogen floor lamps with dimmer switch. Only animal free materials (cottons, denims, velour, etc.) Do not provide furniture made of any animal skin or print. Do not provide artificial versions of animal skin or print either. No leather seating is allowed in the black stretch limousine either. Arrange for a dry cleaner before arrival. 6 Full and leafy floor plants, but no trees. We want plants that are just as full on the bottom as the top such as palm, bamboo, peace lilies, etc. No tree trunks! $50.00 - One large arrangement of white Casablanca lilies with lots of foliage. $40.00 - One long stemmed arrangement of pale pink and white roses with lots of foliage. $35 One arrangement of freesia. It comes in various colors so please mix them up. Freesia is a favorite. 20 dozen clean towels outside of the production office AP

7/20 Mariah Carey The Demands: Each room must be draped. Black drapes are fine. The entry door should open into the living room space, not the dressing room. Temperature should be about 75 degrees. 1 Three Seat Couch — Plain Color, no busy patterns; black, dark grey, cream, dark pink are fine 12 1 Liters of Fiji Water 3 Bottles Chardonnay — Chilled 12 Coke 12 Diet Coke 12 Vanilla Protein Drinks 6 Sparkling Water (Pellegrino) 12 Melon Flavor Gatorade 6 Red Wine Glasses 6 White Wine Glasses 4 Joe Malone Vanilla Candles 2 Vases White Roses Fried Chicken (warm) 12 Small Bottles water (room temperature) 3 Whole lemons and honey Sugarless gum Getty

8/20 Eminem The Demands: 25 pound dumbbells 24-Diet Coke 16oz plastic bottles 12 Diet Coke 12oz cans 6 Verner ginger ale soda (or Schweppes) 48 Daisani, Poland Spring 12oz bottles “NO Evian” 1 Loaf white bread 1 Loaf wheat bread 6 Lunchables snacks (3 turkeys & 3 ham with cheese) 6 Cans Red Bull 16 Cans Sugar-Free Red Bull Large fresh jumbo shrimps with cocktail sauce and plenty of lemons 1 Jar of banana pepper rings Getty Images

9/20 Grace Jones​ The Demands: 6 Bottles of Louis Roederer Cristal Champagne 3 Bottles of French Vintage red wine (e.g. St Emilion, Medoc, Bordeaux) 3 Bottles of French Vintage white wine (e.g. Sancerre, Pouilly Fuisse) 2 Dozen Findeclare or Colchester Oysters on ice (unopened)—(Grace does her own shucking.) 2 Sashimi and Sushi platters for 8 people 6 Fresh lemons 1 Bottle of Tabasco sauce 1 Fresh fruit platter for 8 people 6 Bottles of Coca Cola 12 Bottles of still and sparkling water 12 Bottles of fresh fruit juices Wine glasses, champagne flutes, tumblers (all glass, no plastic) Cutlery and sharp knife 1 Oyster knife 1 Make up mirror (no neon strip lighting, only opaque white bulbs) Fresh towels, clothes hangers, clothes rail 3-4 Bunches of flowers—prefer lilys and orchids Sofa and arm chairs Andy Sturmey

10/20 Drake The Demands: Four dozen natural-scented incense sticks Dr. Bronner’s peppermint soap Pork-free food E-Z Wider rolling papers and a pack of Dutch Master President cigars Pinot Grigio Heineken Bottles of Jack Daniel’s Patron Silver tequila Nivea chapstick A bottle of Hennesey or Courvoisier Grey Goose Andis T-Outliner trimmers Extra sets of speakers champagnepapi/Instagram

11/20 Jack White The Demands: 1 dozen chicken wings (buffalo, teryaki, suprise us) 1 bowl of FRESH HOME-MADE GUACAMOLE 8 champagne flutes (real glass) 8 wine glasses (real glass) 8 highball glasses (real glass) 1 hummus & pita chips iPod player with sufficient volume control NO fluorescent lighting PLEASE NOTE: This is a NO BANANA TOUR. (Seriously) Getty

12/20 Madonna The Demands: 200-person entourage 2o international phone lines Her backstage room must look exactly like her own home (that means she ships around her furniture) Special flower-scented fabric Actual flowers Personal chef who prepares only vegan foods Her own dry-cleaning service AP

13/20 Alicia Keys Alicia Keys performs at the UEFA Champions League Final Getty

14/20 Jay Z The Demands: 7 sets of metal silverware 1 Lighter 3 Glade Candles (French Vanilla, Rain shower, Wild Berry, Tangerine Ginger) 3 Cans of Chunk White Tuna 10 Nutri-Grain Bars (Blueberry, Cherry, Apple, Strawberry) 6 Individual Packets of Quaker Oats Instant Oatmeal (Brown Sugar and Apple Cinnamon) 1 Assorted Fruit Platter with strawberries, seedless red grapes, bananas, mango, blueberries, cantaloupe and raspberries 2 Cases of beer (one imported and one domestic; brands preferred: Amstel Light, Corona, Bud, Bud Light or local beer) 3 menus for local seafood and Italian restaurants to order meals for Alicia Getty

15/20 Mary J. Blige​ The Demands: 2 Humidifiers 10 medium prewashed bath sized towels NO DAIRY OR PORK OF ANY KIND!! 10 1.5 liter bottles of FIJI water (absolutely, positively must be FIJI) 6 cans of Diet Dr. Pepper 6 cans of Schweeps Ginger Ale 2 packs of Mentos — cinnamon fresh only 6 cans of Red Bull energy drink 6 bottles of Black Cherry Propells in sports bottle 8 sets of silverware 24 napkins 1 tub of clean ice Getty Images

16/20 Lady Gaga The Demands: 2 Bottles of white wine with wine opener — Kendall Jackson or Robert Mondavi preferred 1 Pack of Straws 1 Cushioned office style chair TV with cable and a DVD player 1 Rolling clothing rack 4 Unscented candles Cool-mist humidifier 3 fans Tea kettle, organic ginger and lemongrass tea and honey are very important. 1 4 pack of Red Bull Light (on ice) 2 Bottles of Green Tea 1 Container of Guacamole Hot dogs (Yves veggie dogs eaten with toothpicks) A smoothie station (with frozen berries, fuze and whey protein or non-fat Greek yogurt) Blender needed 1 Plate of cheese (non-smelly, non-sweaty on ice) with whole wheat/healthy crackers A mix of assorted fresh fruit (cut and must have edible skin OR edible seeds OR citrus) Getty

17/20 Cher The Demands: 1 Wig Room 1 Room for Dr. Stacey 1 bottle of fine red wine (No Kendall Jackson) 1 bottle of fine white wine (No Kendall Jackson) 4 Cokes 4 Diet Cokes 1 coffee table 1 end table for the phone to be placed on TV with VCR with a cable Hook up. Please make sure we can get the following channels: Turner Classic Movies or AMC

18/20 Taylor Swift The Demands: If arriving before 11 a.m., the following from Starbucks: 1 Grande ICED Caramel Latte w/ 2 sweet-n-lows 1 Grande ICED Americano w/ 2 sweet-n-lows with soy milk 1 slice pumpkin loaf 1 Stick Butter 3 Boxes Kraft Macaroni/Cheese 2 Four Packs of Red Bull 1 12 Pack Corona Beer 1 12 Pack New Castle Beer 1 Bottle Welch's Grape Juice 1 Avocado 1 Bag of Twizzlers red licorice 1 Case of Smart Water 1 Pint Ben & Jerry's Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Ice Cream 1 Pint Ben & Jerry's Chocolate Brownie Frozen Yogurt

19/20 Iggy Pop The Demands: A copy of USA Today that's got a story about morbidly obese people in it 6 bottles of Grolsch or decent local beer F——— loads of good red wines 6 large bottles of good quality sparkling water 3 cases x 12 oz bottles of still mineral water 6 bottles of alcohol free beer 1 case of big bottles of good, premium beer A bottle of vodka Cauliflower/broccoli, cut into individual florets and thrown immediately into the garbage. I f——— hate that Getty Images