Corporate VC Is On The Rise: Here's What To Know
Corporate VC Is On The Rise: Here's What To Know
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Valley Voices       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. After many attempts at take-off, corporate VC is finally ready to fly with the rest of the VC flock. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images) While much has been written about the proliferation of CVC , its merits and challenges , I’m interested here in the structures that increase CVCs’ likelihood of long-term stability and success. In 2006, Harvard Business School Professor Josh Lerner asked, “Does the Venture Capital Structure Matter?” The answer remains a resounding yes, and amidst this rapid growth in CVC, the structures matter more than ever. Today, many CVCs have been structured with a critical set of features – returns-orientation, independent decision-making, strategic relevance and evergreen capital – that foster longevity for the CVC and trust with the start-up community. Many of today’s leading CVCs are structured with the clear objective of maximizing financial return. With no potential for competing corporate interests, they can tell a simple and easy-to-understand story to the entrepreneurial community: we are aligned with you to grow shareholder value. Upon investment, they have no incentive to pay the “strategic premium” or add off-market strategic terms, like a right of first offer. After investment, they have no reason to force a one-sided commercial deal with the corporate parent at the expense of their portfolio companies’ limited time and energy. Aligned with other shareholders, these returns-focused CVCs can become preferred financing partners. The benefits of a returns-orientation extend to the corporate parent as well. First, the CVC can be more accurately measured on its financial performance – more like an objective score on a math test than a subjective letter on an essay. The parent, many of whom are publicly traded, can in turn quantify results to its shareholders. Second, when a CVC focuses on making returns, financial success is naturally more likely. As a potential profit-generator, the CVC can become insulated from the vagaries of annual budgeting; it becomes self-sustainable. Perhaps the most compelling argument for this feature is that financial performance is the single best proxy for strategic value. Although there are takeaways from failure, most corporates glean valuable, winning strategies from affiliations with successful companies. Empirically, in a study of 71 CVCs in the biopharma industry from 1985 – 2005 , Georgia Tech professors Daniel Kang and Vik Nanda found that more successful investments had a meaningful positive relationship to more successful internal drug development. Great financial returns often go hand-in-hand with strategic benefit for the parent. Accepting that a returns-orientation is foundational to a long-term aligned CVC, we must also recognize that incentives matter for orienting great investing professionals around returns and retention. Historically, CVCs have been challenged to retain partners, who may seek greater pay or independence at a traditional VC fund. A CVC partner’s time and energy should be aligned toward long-term value creation with carry-based compensation that is consistent with traditional fund managers. Indeed, CVCs simultaneously act as fund managers, navigate what Josh Lerner calls the “tricky interface” between start-ups and large corporations, and serve as the parent’s ambassador to the entrepreneur and VC community. Exceptional investment talent can have a profound impact on the parent’s shareholder value, through financial returns, new business opportunities and insights from portfolio companies. Aligned with fund performance, partners are more inclined to achieve optimal outcomes for the portfolio and parent. Autonomy from the parent helps CVCs quickly and nimbly reach decisions and employ in-house investment professionals. At many of today’s most active CVCs , such as GV (formerly Google Ventures), Intel Capital , SAP’s Sapphire Ventures, and Comcast Ventures, where I work, decision-making power rests with a set of dedicated investment professionals, not those busy running the operating business units. With the speed and agility of a small, professional team, these CVCs can become more dependable decision-makers for the start-ups they evaluate and more trusted partners for their portfolio companies. Additionally, these teams either have or quickly develop expertise in the investment process: sourcing and evaluating investments, oversight of and value creation for portfolio companies, and the engineering of optimal exits. Efficient and experienced, these CVCs become trusted partners of entrepreneurs and fellow shareholders, with whom they can collectively grow the start-up. Investing in areas core or adjacent to the corporate parent’s interests enhances stability and returns for the CVC. This relevance means that there is a relationship between the target sectors of the parent and the CVC, not a limited strategic scope. This distinction is important because the disruptive forces upending traditional businesses may come from unexpected places. Less than a decade ago it would have seemed odd for a media-focused CVC to invest in an ephemeral (sometimes illicit) messaging app, but today’s media companies fear and envy how Snapchat has affected their core businesses. While the parent’s M&A and business development teams may focus, like car headlights, on line of sight, strategic opportunities, CVCs scan the broad landscape, more like a lighthouse, evaluating a high volume of opportunities in adjacent sectors. When executed well, strategic relevance facilitates a win-win-win between the CVC, entrepreneur and corporate parent. For the CVC, relevance tends to enhance returns due to proprietary sourcing, diligence and post-investment value-creation. For entrepreneurs, the CVC’s relationship with the larger core business increases the likelihood of gaining a lucrative contract, distribution channel and/or unique domain expertise. The corporate parent also benefits from exposure to new partners, business models and talent. Indeed, a CVC introduces its parent company to talented entrepreneurs – relationships that would be difficult to foster without an investment tie . Practiced over time, these dynamics spin a virtuous and accelerating CVC flywheel.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

VCs often pride themselves on their ability to recognize growth trends, so it should come as no surprise that many have recently commented on a major change in their own trade: the rise of corporate venture capital (CVC). From 2011 to 2016, the number of global active corporate investors has VCs often pride themselves on their ability to recognize growth trends, so it should come as no surprise that many have recently commented on a major change in their own trade: the rise of corporate venture capital (CVC). From 2011 to 2016, the number of global active corporate investors has tripled to 965 . Today, 75 of the Fortune 100 are active in corporate venturing, and 41 have a dedicated CVC team. They represent a growing source of capital as well, participating in nearly a third of all U.S. venture deals and 40% in Asia. Corporate VCs growing role in financing entrepreneurship is undeniable.

While much has been written about the proliferation of CVC, its merits and challenges, I’m interested here in the structures that increase CVCs’ likelihood of long-term stability and success. In 2006, Harvard Business School Professor Josh Lerner asked, “Does the Venture Capital Structure Matter?” The answer remains a resounding yes, and amidst this rapid growth in CVC, the structures matter more than ever. Today, many CVCs have been structured with a critical set of features – returns-orientation, independent decision-making, strategic relevance and evergreen capital – that foster longevity for the CVC and trust with the start-up community.

The Modern CVC Feature Set

1) Returns-orientation

Many of today’s leading CVCs are structured with the clear objective of maximizing financial return. With no potential for competing corporate interests, they can tell a simple and easy-to-understand story to the entrepreneurial community: we are aligned with you to grow shareholder value. Upon investment, they have no incentive to pay the “strategic premium” or add off-market strategic terms, like a right of first offer. After investment, they have no reason to force a one-sided commercial deal with the corporate parent at the expense of their portfolio companies’ limited time and energy. Aligned with other shareholders, these returns-focused CVCs can become preferred financing partners.

The benefits of a returns-orientation extend to the corporate parent as well. First, the CVC can be more accurately measured on its financial performance – more like an objective score on a math test than a subjective letter on an essay. The parent, many of whom are publicly traded, can in turn quantify results to its shareholders. Second, when a CVC focuses on making returns, financial success is naturally more likely. As a potential profit-generator, the CVC can become insulated from the vagaries of annual budgeting; it becomes self-sustainable. Perhaps the most compelling argument for this feature is that financial performance is the single best proxy for strategic value. Although there are takeaways from failure, most corporates glean valuable, winning strategies from affiliations with successful companies. Empirically, in a study of 71 CVCs in the biopharma industry from 1985 – 2005, Georgia Tech professors Daniel Kang and Vik Nanda found that more successful investments had a meaningful positive relationship to more successful internal drug development. Great financial returns often go hand-in-hand with strategic benefit for the parent.

Accepting that a returns-orientation is foundational to a long-term aligned CVC, we must also recognize that incentives matter for orienting great investing professionals around returns and retention. Historically, CVCs have been challenged to retain partners, who may seek greater pay or independence at a traditional VC fund. A CVC partner’s time and energy should be aligned toward long-term value creation with carry-based compensation that is consistent with traditional fund managers. Indeed, CVCs simultaneously act as fund managers, navigate what Josh Lerner calls the “tricky interface” between start-ups and large corporations, and serve as the parent’s ambassador to the entrepreneur and VC community. Exceptional investment talent can have a profound impact on the parent’s shareholder value, through financial returns, new business opportunities and insights from portfolio companies. Aligned with fund performance, partners are more inclined to achieve optimal outcomes for the portfolio and parent.

2) Independent decision-making

Autonomy from the parent helps CVCs quickly and nimbly reach decisions and employ in-house investment professionals. At many of today’s most active CVCs, such as GV (formerly Google Ventures), Intel Capital, SAP’s Sapphire Ventures, and Comcast Ventures, where I work, decision-making power rests with a set of dedicated investment professionals, not those busy running the operating business units. With the speed and agility of a small, professional team, these CVCs can become more dependable decision-makers for the start-ups they evaluate and more trusted partners for their portfolio companies. Additionally, these teams either have or quickly develop expertise in the investment process: sourcing and evaluating investments, oversight of and value creation for portfolio companies, and the engineering of optimal exits. Efficient and experienced, these CVCs become trusted partners of entrepreneurs and fellow shareholders, with whom they can collectively grow the start-up.

3) Strategic relevance

Investing in areas core or adjacent to the corporate parent’s interests enhances stability and returns for the CVC. This relevance means that there is a relationship between the target sectors of the parent and the CVC, not a limited strategic scope. This distinction is important because the disruptive forces upending traditional businesses may come from unexpected places. Less than a decade ago it would have seemed odd for a media-focused CVC to invest in an ephemeral (sometimes illicit) messaging app, but today’s media companies fear and envy how Snapchat has affected their core businesses. While the parent’s M&A and business development teams may focus, like car headlights, on line of sight, strategic opportunities, CVCs scan the broad landscape, more like a lighthouse, evaluating a high volume of opportunities in adjacent sectors.

When executed well, strategic relevance facilitates a win-win-win between the CVC, entrepreneur and corporate parent. For the CVC, relevance tends to enhance returns due to proprietary sourcing, diligence and post-investment value-creation. For entrepreneurs, the CVC’s relationship with the larger core business increases the likelihood of gaining a lucrative contract, distribution channel and/or unique domain expertise. The corporate parent also benefits from exposure to new partners, business models and talent. Indeed, a CVC introduces its parent company to talented entrepreneurs – relationships that would be difficult to foster without an investment tie. Practiced over time, these dynamics spin a virtuous and accelerating CVC flywheel.

Continue reading...