Ted Nugent and Kid Rock Floated as Potential GOP Senate Candidates

Ted Nugent and Kid Rock Floated as Potential GOP Senate Candidates // // // // // Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Michigan) might find herself facing one of two rock and roll icons when she runs for reelection in 2018, if recent reports prove true. Separate reports say musicians Ted Nugent and Kid Rock could be on the Republican ticket against Stabenow next year. Nugent told the Daily Caller News Foundation there is "nothing I wouldn't do to help [Michigan] in any way I can," and would not rule out a bid. The "Cat Scratch Fever" singer has been an outspoken critic of former President Barack Obama on Facebook and endorsed President Donald Trump at an NRA convention during the campaign. He also previously slammed Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) for "preaching Communism" and called out "Never Trump" critics, saying "Don't give me this 'he's not my guy' crap." At a recent Michigan Republican Party convention, Rock's name was floated as a potential opponent for Stabenow, who has been in office since 2001. "I have not talked to Kid Rock about that," Michigan GOP press officer Sarah Anderson told Fox News. "I think he would be awesome. I wouldn't be surprised if there was a movement for him to run, but to my knowledge he has not been asked." A spokesperson for Rock, whose real name is Robert Ritchie, did not respond to a request for comment from FOX-411 . Michigan electors supported Trump in 2016, their first Republican presidential candidate since 1988.

Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-Michigan) might find herself facing one of two rock and roll icons when she runs for reelection in 2018, if recent reports prove true.

Separate reports say musicians Ted Nugent and Kid Rock could be on the Republican ticket against Stabenow next year.

Cruz: With Reid Gone from Senate, 'Kate's Law' Back on the Table

Campos-Duffy: 'People Trust Donald Trump More Than They Trust the Media'

'Day Without Immigrants' Shuts Down Pentagon Food Court Restaurants

Nugent told the Daily Caller News Foundation there is "nothing I wouldn't do to help [Michigan] in any way I can," and would not rule out a bid.

The "Cat Scratch Fever" singer has been an outspoken critic of former President Barack Obama on Facebook and endorsed President Donald Trump at an NRA convention during the campaign.

He also previously slammed Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) for "preaching Communism" and called out "Never Trump" critics, saying "Don't give me this 'he's not my guy' crap."

At a recent Michigan Republican Party convention, Rock's name was floated as a potential opponent for Stabenow, who has been in office since 2001.

"I have not talked to Kid Rock about that," Michigan GOP press officer Sarah Anderson told Fox News. "I think he would be awesome. I wouldn't be surprised if there was a movement for him to run, but to my knowledge he has not been asked."

A spokesperson for Rock, whose real name is Robert Ritchie, did not respond to a request for comment from FOX-411.

Michigan electors supported Trump in 2016, their first Republican presidential candidate since 1988.

'Very Fake News': Pres. Trump Questioned on Intel Leaks by CNN's Acosta

Texas Gov. Abbott Slams NFL for 'Bathroom Bill' Threat

O'Reilly: Media 'Talking Trash' About Trump & Russia With No Credible Evidence