Rotating Dubai skyscraper to be built in 2020
Rotating Dubai skyscraper to be built in 2020


Residents at Dubai's new hotel with be able to watch the sunrise and sunset in the city's rotating hotel.

The Dynamic Tower Hotel, which has been in the works since 2008, will finally be built in 2020.

The skyscraper will be able to rotate 360 degrees, so the view will change endlessly for residents inside.

Units will be built on separate floors of the 1,375foot-tall, 80-story building, with each rotating independently around the structure's concrete center at the command of voice-activated control by the residents.

The Dynamic Tower Hotel in Dubai, which has been in the works since 2008, will finally be built in 2020.

Units will be built on separate floors of the 1,375foot-tall, 80-story building, with each rotating independently around the structure's concrete center at the command of voice-activated control by the residents.

The building will also feature wind turbines positioned horizontally between each floor and solar panels on the roof, which will allow it to be completely self-powered.

It was reported in 2013 that up to 79 wind turbines will be fitted to each floor to generate enough energy to fuel the building's electricity.

The Dynamic Group claims that the landmark will offer a 'wellness experience' rather than simply work as a hotel.

'Indeed, it will no longer be a 'hotel' but a new product in line with today's life,' the group's website says. 'How many stars? This 'hotel' will be beyond stars.'

The site adds: 'This dynamic experience will offer exclusive services, luxurious accommodation and facilities for the traveller with the most cutting-edge technologies, whether for business or leisure.

'Dynamic Hotel' guests will have the choice of spacious luxury suites or excellently appointed deluxe rooms and the benefit of exceptional service delivered by one of the world's leading hospitality companies.'

The skyscraper will be able to rotate 360 degrees, so the view will change endlessly for residents inside. The building will serve as both a hotel and an apartment building

The building will also feature wind turbines positioned horizontally between each floor and solar panels on the roof, which will allow it to be completely self-powered

Some of the units could be turned into apartments, which would cost $30million each, according to Mashable.

The Dynamic Tower was proposed nine years ago by Israeli-Italian architect David Fisher.

Fisher created the design with the idea that 'the motionless state of today's houses does not reflect people's actual lives, where everything is constantly changing'.

He believes that hotels and homes should be able to 'move following the sun or the wind, and adjust to their tenants' life and mood'.

The building is expected to be made from prefabricated units which will then be attached to the structure's concrete center.

Fisher's Rotating Tower project is innovative in design and architecture, but also recognizes environmental care and industrial production process as key points in the city of the future.

The plans were released in 2008 and Fisher planned to have the first building in Dubai completed by 2010.

The building is expected to be made from prefabricated units which will then be attached to the structure's concrete center

However, delays in planning permission as well as structural design tweaks and problems with how the plumbing would work, for example, is said to have pushed this date back.

Although, Dr Fisher believes each floor will only take six days to assemble around the core once permission is granted and the concrete structures are in place.

Each of the towers have been designed with swimming pools, gardens and even lifts for cars meaning people can park outside their flats.

The 80-storey Dubai tower is expected to cost around £355million.

Fisher has proposed similar buildings in Moscow, London, Milan, Paris, Rome, New York and Miami.

Fisher previously said that he did not want to unveil too much information because he wanted it to be kept a 'surprise'.