Are these the worst DIY fails ever?
Are these the worst DIY fails ever?


We all know someone who thinks they're a dab hand at DIY, but sometimes it really is best to just call in a professional.

Now the blog There, I fixed it is documenting the most woeful home improvement fails that are both hilarious and worryingly unsafe at the same time.

From taping a key to the end of a faulty plug and shoving it in a socket, to using books instead of bricks for essential structural repairs, these photos show that some people would be wisest to step away from the tool box.

Don't try to play Jenga! Someone very unwisely decided to use books for structural repairs instead of the more conventional choice of bricks

Rather than buying a new table you can just stick some wood on the legs to make the one you have higher

This water bottle found a new lease of life when the tap broke

If you don't have the correct plug to fit the socket, there's no need to worry!

A broken toilet that ended up being repaired with a seat of a different kind

Books seem to be a popular choice when building materials are in short supply

You've heard of up-cycling and so has the creative person who managed to combine a cooker and a washing machine in one

Empty bottles of whiskey and wine can come in handy when the toilet flush is broken

If your laptop tends to get overheated then it can cause problems, but this may not be the ideal solution

A humble bottle of shower gel became an important component of the bathroom lighting in this house

Shower at your own risk! Bare wires make having a scrub a precarious endeavour in this home

Some crafty individual found another use for a butter knife when they lock on the toilet door broke

Meccano magic: It's probably fair to say the bricks belonged to someone not old enough to shave

A unique toilet roll holder certainly made a visit to this bathroom a unique experience

If your TV unit doesn't fit, don't worry! Simply get out the saw and make it work

Some cars come fitted with on-board entertainment, but others have to improvise

If you can't find a chair, precariously balancing on a water bottle is an alternative you've probably not considered before

Why fork out for an expensive TV unity when you can make your own from a cardboard box?

If the spout on the coffee machine is broken, you could just stick a fork in as an alternative

This dangerously propped up air conditioning unit looks as if it could buckle the stool at any moment

Can't find roller skates to fit? Just tape some wheels on to your boots