Watch: Hall of Famer Greg Maddux goes incognito to prank Chicago Cubs 3B Kris Bryant
Watch: Greg Maddux goes incognito to prank Kris Bryant
Watch: Greg Maddux goes incognito to prank Kris Bryant Here's Nats righty Stephen Strasburg throwing off ... Indians' Brantley to miss start of Cactus League Pirates LHP Watson gets $5.6M in arbitration loss What is it like to face Aroldis Chapman? Step in. Dellin Betances will not report to Yankees camp un... St. Louis Cardinals left-hander Corey Littrell rec... Marlins face tough takeaways after losing Jose Fernandez Twins' Hughes keeps rib as surgery souvenir Mullet makeover for sports' biggest names Beards are back: Marlins lift facial hair ban Cubs RF Jason Heyward spent all winter working on ... The Dodgers officially announce the free-agent sig... What baseball needs now is love, more love Prospects who can make a major impact in 2017 The Royals are wearing this uniform patch in honor... Sale has 'blinders up,' to run until 'race is over' Most of Red Sox's front office watched Chris Sale,... Stroman, McHugh, Odorizzi win arbitration cases A-Rod, Swisher among Yanks' guest instructors Cubs' Schwarber to catch on limited basis Flamingos, fast cars and fierce youngsters: Baseball is back! Mexico banking on pitching, home field as edges for WBC Way-too-early 2017 MLB All-Star rosters The state of baseball's best teams Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Reigning NL MVP Kris Bryant thought he was just shooting a baseball workout video earlier this week in Las Vegas for Red Bull, one of his sponsors. What he didn't know was that a member of the production crew was pitching great Greg Maddux in disguise. The Hall of Famer and four-time Cy Young Award winner was fixed with a wig, mustache and goatee to complete his transformation into the "Sound Guy" for the shoot. And as the video shows, the disguise seemed to fool Bryant. Maddux messed with Bryant throughout the day, offering him water and hand sanitizer, along with telling him to "try to hit it on the barrel" during batting practice. When the original batting practice pitcher had to leave suddenly, Maddux offered to step in. The Cubs third baseman was reluctant at first, but after a few pitches he could be heard saying, "He might be better than the other guy." Mad Dog finally blew his cover when he asked Bryant if he would autograph his bat for "Greg Maddux." The stunt was fair payback for Bryant, who has proved to be quite the prankster. The 25-year-old fooled the Mesa Community College baseball team last spring by posing as a European transfer and went undercover as a Lyft driver in Chicago back during his rookie season. -- Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Reigning NL MVP Kris Bryant thought he was just shooting a baseball workout video earlier this week in Las Vegas for Red Bull, one of his sponsors. What he didn't know was that a member of the production crew was pitching great Greg Maddux in disguise.

The Hall of Famer and four-time Cy Young Award winner was fixed with a wig, mustache and goatee to complete his transformation into the "Sound Guy" for the shoot. And as the video shows, the disguise seemed to fool Bryant.

Maddux messed with Bryant throughout the day, offering him water and hand sanitizer, along with telling him to "try to hit it on the barrel" during batting practice.

When the original batting practice pitcher had to leave suddenly, Maddux offered to step in. The Cubs third baseman was reluctant at first, but after a few pitches he could be heard saying, "He might be better than the other guy."

Mad Dog finally blew his cover when he asked Bryant if he would autograph his bat for "Greg Maddux."

The stunt was fair payback for Bryant, who has proved to be quite the prankster. The 25-year-old fooled the Mesa Community College baseball team last spring by posing as a European transfer and went undercover as a Lyft driver in Chicago back during his rookie season.

-- Sarah Scrivens