This Guy Plowed Snow On An ATV While Wearing A Bikini Because New Brunswick
This Guy Plowed Snow On An ATV While Wearing A Bikini Because New Brunswick
When a winter storm pummeled the east coast of Canada with mountains of snow and freezing temperatures this week, most people stayed inside. But not Shane Spencer. Instead, Spencer, a truck driver in Minto, New Brunswick, did what only a true east coaster would. He put on a speedo and a bikini top and faced the storm head on. In a video shared on Facebook, Spencer recorded himself out giving the most delightful weather report while perched on top an ATV. “As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the government hasn’t been doing her job. Your local weatherman Shane Spencer is live here on location,” he says in the video. “She’s snowing’ but it ain’t that bad yet.” It’s not his first weather report — he actually started posting them awhile ago after being inspired by Sydney, Nova Scotia’s, own viral weatherman, Frankie MacDonald . It’s hard to say whether it’s due to his outfit or that delightful Maritimer accent (probably both), but his latest video has gone viral, with more than 300,000 views on Facebook. “I’m just out there to put a smile on somebody’s face,” Spencer told BuzzFeed Canada. “I had a woman in Alberta message me right out of the blue, thanking me for making her sick son laugh. He’s in the hospital, that really hit home for me,” he said. “That’s my real intention for doing all this. It’s not for me to get attention. I don’t care if anybody watches it, i just want to have fun, and make people laugh.” And for him, that makes hanging around in -20 weather in a bikini totally worth it. “I’m a winter persona and the cold don’t really bother me that much. I’m the guy who walks around in -20 in a t-shirt,” he said. “I’m well insulted, like a polar bear.”   This Is Already The Most Iconic Photo Of The Trump...    These Photos Of Gandalf Travelling Around NZ Are More...

4. “I’m just out there to put a smile on somebody’s face,” Spencer told BuzzFeed Canada.

Shane Spencer

“I had a woman in Alberta message me right out of the blue, thanking me for making her sick son laugh. He’s in the hospital, that really hit home for me,” he said.

“That’s my real intention for doing all this. It’s not for me to get attention. I don’t care if anybody watches it, i just want to have fun, and make people laugh.”