7 Things Americans Love That Were Invented By Immigrants
7 Things Americans Love That Were Invented By Immigrants
Thousands of companies and businesses across the country are feeling the impact of "A Day Without Immigrants," today's boycott and strike highlighting immigrants' contributions to American culture. The strike is also a response to President Donald Trump's immigration agenda, which includes the (now on hold) travel ban on citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries and a pledge to "build the wall" along the U.S.-Mexico border. "A Day Without Immigrants" has inspired demonstrations in major cities, and some businesses are closed for the day while others pledge to share proceeds with nonprofits aiding minority communities. On Thursday, the hashtag #DayWithoutImmigrants trended nationwide, with Twitter users sharing their connections to immigration. Complex put together a list of some of the most important (and often overlooked) everyday items that can be attributed to immigrants to celebrate their immense contributions to American culture.

Thousands of companies and businesses across the country are feeling the impact of "A Day Without Immigrants," today's boycott and strike highlighting immigrants' contributions to American culture. The strike is also a response to President Donald Trump's immigration agenda, which includes the (now on hold) travel ban on citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries and a pledge to "build the wall" along the U.S.-Mexico border.

"A Day Without Immigrants" has inspired demonstrations in major cities, and some businesses are closed for the day while others pledge to share proceeds with nonprofits aiding minority communities. On Thursday, the hashtag #DayWithoutImmigrants trended nationwide, with Twitter users sharing their connections to immigration. Complex put together a list of some of the most important (and often overlooked) everyday items that can be attributed to immigrants to celebrate their immense contributions to American culture.