University of Glasgow gets green light for £1 billion expansion project
University of Glasgow gets green light for £1 billion expansion project
he University of Glasgow has been given the green light to launch one the biggest educational expansion projects in the country. On Thursday town hall chiefs granted planning permission for a £1 billion expansion in the city’s West End, on the site of a former hospital. The expansion project will see a new business school, learning hub and research facility built over the next decade. Professor Anton Muscatelli, the Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the university, said: “We are delighted that Glasgow City Council has endorsed our ambitious plan which we believe will be a major economic driver for the city and for Scotland as well as underpin this university’s world-leading position. “The decision to approve the masterplan is pivotal to allowing us to start this development. An initial financial envelope of around £430m will be spent over the next five years on the first phase of the project. “It is part of a wider £1bn investment which includes significant spend on refurbishing and improving the existing estate. “This will be one of the biggest educational infrastructure projects in Scotland’s history and is certainly the biggest development undertaken by this University since it moved to Gilmorehill 150 years ago.” he university moved from High Street to the Gilmorehill site in 1870 as part of plans to have a teaching centre and hospital side by side so the hospital could be used for clinical instruction and research. A clause was signed stating that if the hospital, which opened in 1874, ever ceased to operate then the university could buy back the site, which it did last year for £40 million. he university say that up to 3,000 jobs will be created from the project, with an initial £430m expected to be spent over five years. The first phase of expansion will include an Institute of Health and Wellbeing, the Adam Smith Business School, and a new base for the College of Arts performance space. The second phase, due to begin in 2023, will include the creation of a Social Justice Hub to lead research in global inequality and a new centre for chronic diseases. The University of Glasgow aims to boost student numbers, in particular, the number of places it can offer to post-graduate students. t is the latest institution of the leading Russell Group Universities to expand in order to cater for the “two degrees” generation of young people for whom a bachelor's degree is not enough. Last year the University of Bristol announced it was to spend £300 million building a second campus, as it sought to tap into growing demand for master's degrees from candidates who want to stand out in the labour market as more of their contemporaries go to university. The Association of University Directors of Estates said in their latest annual report that capital investment in buildings exceeded £2.5 billion for the second year in a row – the highest level in a decade. The Higher Education Funding Council has also looked at forecasts for spending over the next three years. Focusing only on universities in England, it said that the sector is expecting to significantly increase investment in its estate, with projections showing capital expenditure of more than £17.8 billion up to 2019.

The University of Glasgow has been given the green light to launch one the biggest educational expansion projects in the country.

On Thursday town hall chiefs granted planning permission for a £1 billion expansion in the city’s West End, on the site of a former hospital.

The expansion project will see a new business school, learning hub and research facility built over the next decade.

Professor Anton Muscatelli, the Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the university, said: “We are delighted that Glasgow City Council has endorsed our ambitious plan which we believe will be a major economic driver for the city and for Scotland as well as underpin this university’s world-leading position.