6 Celebrities Who Have Embraced Donald Trump as Our President
6 Celebrities Who Have Embraced Donald Trump as Our President
Aside from Scott Baio , Hollywood hasn’t exactly embraced President Donald Trump . But we’ve found a few celebs who — even if they didn’t vote for him — have spoken up about supporting the new commander in chief. Another Hillary Clinton supporter, Morgan Freeman , said, “I’m holding out hope that Donald Trump has to be a good president — he can’t not be. What I see is a guy who will not lose.”

Aside from Scott Baio, Hollywood hasn’t exactly embraced President Donald Trump. But we’ve found a few celebs who — even if they didn’t vote for him — have spoken up about supporting the new commander in chief.

Take for instance Lindsay Lohan, who recently opened up about her feelings on the topic. “He is the president. … We have to join him,” she said.

Matthew McConaughey noted that we “don’t have a choice now; he’s our president. It’s time for us to embrace and shake hands with this fact and be constructive with him over the next four years.”

Meanwhile, Nicole Kidman, who has joint Australian-American citizenship, has said, “We as a country need to support whoever is the president, because that’s what the country is based on.”

Michael Keaton agrees and urged fellow actors to give President Trump a chance: “I didn’t vote for him, but we’ve got to just give him a chance at this point.”

Another Hillary Clinton supporter, Morgan Freeman, said, “I’m holding out hope that Donald Trump has to be a good president — he can’t not be. What I see is a guy who will not lose.”

Bryan Cranston — who portrayed President Lyndon B. Johnson on Broadway and in the movie All the Way — echoed that sentiment. Trump’s “our president now … and I hope he’s unbelievably successful in that role,” he insisted, adding that he would love to play the 45th president of the United States one day.

Jack Antonoff Enlists Lady Gaga, Emma Stone, and Others to Fight Anti-LGBTQ Legislation in Texas:

More From Yahoo Celebrity: