Why Betterment Added A Human Touch To Its Roboadvisor Tool
Why Betterment Added A Human Touch To Its Roboadvisor Tool
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Katheryn Thayer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Follow me on Twitter @KATontap    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Betterment, a digital investing platform that manages over $7 billion in investor assets, announced in late January that it will offer certified financial planner services to users with balances over $100,000.

It’s a rather significant update for the service that had championed the investing power of roboadvising. Roboadvisors “actively” manage profiles without human intervention, using algorithms to adjust portfolios based on market trends. Betterment founder and CEO Jon Stein says that with the new human services available on Betterment, “We can make sure you are using all our tools in the most optimal way possible for your specific situation.”

Or, more specifically, users with larger sums invested will get regular phone calls and account monitoring services from certified financial planners.

“As we continue to improve our service and expand the types of tools we offer, we venture into more complex areas of your financial life,” says Stein. And he has several examples of where he thinks certified financial planners can add to current offerings:

Retirement: Social Security planning, or choosing between a lump sum and a pension

Tax: Roth conversion strategies, or how to minimize taxes when moving to Betterment

Debt: balancing debt vs. investing, or buying vs. renting

Investing: factoring in outside investment accounts

“We found that while a lot of customers out there realize that a roboadvisor is the best option for them to invest their money, they still wanted the ability to talk with a licensed expert,” says Stein. “I always say that customers want a ‘high-tech yet high-touch’ service. We help them understand and feel comfortable with the financial plan we design for them, which in turn helps them stick to that plan for the long-term.”

For now, that human help is intended for those with more sizeable investments. Users with a Betterment balance of $100,000 or more get an annual call and regular monitoring for a flat fee of 0.40%. Those with at least $250,000 invested can opt for unlimited access to a team of CFPs and licensed financial experts for a 0.50% fee.

Follow me on Twitter @KATontap