People Judged Me On My Weight Post-Pregnancy, Says Shilpa Shetty On Fat-Shaming Of New Mothers
People Judged Me On My Weight Post-Pregnancy, Says Shilpa Shetty On Fat-Shaming Of New Mothers
People Judged Me On My Weight Post-Pregnancy, Says Shilpa Shetty On Fat-Shaming Of New Mothers The biggest price that celebrities have to pay in exchange for fame and money is their privacy. rivate life is no longer private and everyone wants to know and consume the personal information related to a celebrity's life. From their dressing style to their weight, everything is always under the scanner by the media. In a recent interview, actress Shilpa Shetty, spoke about fat-shaming of new mothers and how an actress is always under a constant radar for those extra calories, post-pregnancy. My Picasso at work😅Mother-son Art day at school😁so much fun! #unconditionallove #paintingart #mothersontime A post shared by Shilpa Shetty Kundra (@officialshilpashetty) on Nov 11, 2016 at 10:30pm PST   Even Kareena Kapoor Khan had made similar comments recently during a Facebook Live when she revealed how some websites reportedly called her FAT whereas it was only post pregnancy weight. When asked about the issue of body shaming, Shilpa, who welcomed son Viaan with husband Raj Kundra in 2012 said, " She added, Dread to think what life would be without you @rajkundra9 . This day is no different from the others,U r my Valentine everyday ..but what the heck..Happy Valentine's Day..Cheesy but true 😘😍#valentine #loveofmylife #hubbylove #gratitude A post shared by Shilpa Shetty Kundra (@officialshilpashetty) on Feb 13, 2017 at 8:01pm PST   "The pressure that I had when I had a baby, I didn't get out of my house for seven months. The pressure that nothing fit me. I remember the first time I got out of my house, five months after my delivery, my husband took me out for lunch. There were few ladies sitting, they laughed. I heard them, 'she hasn't still lost her weight'." Shilpa Shetty added that the pressure to look good can be depressing because she lost nearly 32 kgs post that. She added, "So, it is very daunting. That's the day I decided 'oh my God, so people are judging me.' That's normal because when you're an actor, you are going to be judged. That's part and parcel of being a celebrity." She also shared an incident where she went to work after giving birth and the issue she faced. With the team of Superdancer #sweet #positivevibes #energy #funatwork A post shared by Shilpa Shetty Kundra (@officialshilpashetty) on Oct 10, 2016 at 8:32am PDT

The biggest price that celebrities have to pay in exchange for fame and money is their privacy.

With paparazzi stepping in, private life is no longer private and everyone wants to know and consume the personal information related to a celebrity's life. From their dressing style to their weight, everything is always under the scanner by the media.

In a recent interview, actress Shilpa Shetty, spoke about fat-shaming of new mothers and how an actress is always under a constant radar for those extra calories, post-pregnancy.

My Picasso at work😅Mother-son Art day at school😁so much fun! #unconditionallove #paintingart #mothersontime A post shared by Shilpa Shetty Kundra (@officialshilpashetty) on Nov 11, 2016 at 10:30pm PST

Even Kareena Kapoor Khan had made similar comments recently during a Facebook Live when she revealed how some websites reportedly called her FAT whereas it was only post pregnancy weight. When asked about the issue of body shaming, Shilpa, who welcomed son Viaan with husband Raj Kundra in 2012 said, "I can understand that emotion (of being judged), especially as an actress and someone who has been synonym with having a good body and (being into) fitness."

She added,

Dread to think what life would be without you @rajkundra9 . This day is no different from the others,U r my Valentine everyday ..but what the heck..Happy Valentine's Day..Cheesy but true 😘😍#valentine #loveofmylife #hubbylove #gratitude A post shared by Shilpa Shetty Kundra (@officialshilpashetty) on Feb 13, 2017 at 8:01pm PST

"The pressure that I had when I had a baby, I didn't get out of my house for seven months. The pressure that nothing fit me. I remember the first time I got out of my house, five months after my delivery, my husband took me out for lunch. There were few ladies sitting, they laughed. I heard them, 'she hasn't still lost her weight'."

Shilpa Shetty added that the pressure to look good can be depressing because she lost nearly 32 kgs post that. She added, "So, it is very daunting. That's the day I decided 'oh my God, so people are judging me.' That's normal because when you're an actor, you are going to be judged. That's part and parcel of being a celebrity."

She also shared an incident where she went to work after giving birth and the issue she faced.

With the team of Superdancer #sweet #positivevibes #energy #funatwork A post shared by Shilpa Shetty Kundra (@officialshilpashetty) on Oct 10, 2016 at 8:32am PDT

"'Nach Baliye' was my first outing after pregnancy, eight months after I delivered. I was very scared. Clothes weren't fitting me, I was size 16, double the size I've ever been in my life. When you're working, that gives you enough inspiration or goal. Some do it for their loved one, some for work, I think you've to do it for yourself."

(With PTI inputs)

Don't Miss 76.5 K SHARES 100.7 K SHARES 31 K SHARES 19.9 K SHARES 47.7 K SHARES