Katy Perry, Nick Jonas, and Other Stars You Can Buy Shoes From
Katy Perry, Nick Jonas, and Other Stars You Can Buy Shoes From
Katy Perry’s preparing to “Roar” with a passion project she’s been secretly working on for the past four years — a shoe line aptly named the Katy Perry Collection. The highly anticipated whimsical shoe line drops Feb. 16 and features designs inspired from personal memories: bunny flats, cigar-shaped heels, and shoes accented by monetary symbols. In an interview with Perry noted, “[Footwear] was a part of me that needed to be carefully created and developed, and I had to weigh a lot of my options… You are what you wear, right? It’s one of those things where I really love the line, and I’m excited by it. It’s not like you’ll never see me in a pair of Adidas slides ever again. And you’ll [probably still] see me on the streets wearing Uggs.” And when it came time to figuring out the price point of the shoe line, the singer went on to say, “Not everybody is rich, and not everybody is excessive. And everybody has more important things to spend their money on — whether it’s their children, or their family or their health. At the end of the day, your personality shouldn’t be so expensive to display.” Perry’s line will range  from $59 to $299 and be sold at Macy’s, Lord & Taylor, Amazon, and Zappos. Perry’s not the only celebrity to step into the shoe game. Check out the video above to find out which other celebrities have a shoe collection.

Katy Perry’s preparing to “Roar” with a passion project she’s been secretly working on for the past four years — a shoe line aptly named the Katy Perry Collection. The highly anticipated whimsical shoe line drops Feb. 16 and features designs inspired from personal memories: bunny flats, cigar-shaped heels, and shoes accented by monetary symbols.

In an interview with Footwear News, Perry noted, “[Footwear] was a part of me that needed to be carefully created and developed, and I had to weigh a lot of my options… You are what you wear, right? It’s one of those things where I really love the line, and I’m excited by it. It’s not like you’ll never see me in a pair of Adidas slides ever again. And you’ll [probably still] see me on the streets wearing Uggs.”

And when it came time to figuring out the price point of the shoe line, the singer went on to say, “Not everybody is rich, and not everybody is excessive. And everybody has more important things to spend their money on — whether it’s their children, or their family or their health. At the end of the day, your personality shouldn’t be so expensive to display.” Perry’s line will range from $59 to $299 and be sold at Macy’s, Lord & Taylor, Amazon, and Zappos.

Perry’s not the only celebrity to step into the shoe game. Check out the video above to find out which other celebrities have a shoe collection.

Nick Cannon is a very generous gift-giver:

More From Yahoo Celebrity: