This spreadsheet full of texts people want to send to their exes is really something special
This spreadsheet full of texts people want to send to their exes is really something special
Like any sensible person who's ever had their heart broken, you probably have a folder of half-cocked texts you've considered sending your ex but held back on. Well, now you can take a peek into humanity's drafts folders thanks to a viral G oogle doc with the simple name, "texts i wanna send my ex."  reports it was created by Sean Drohan on Valentine's Day , and it's currently got 540 entries and counting. It's a real who's who of twisted human emotions, and lots of them are pictures of pure pain.Â "I want to touch you one more time" "I'm so happy to have loved you and I hope you're doing well even though it been a couple of years" "I lost 12 lbs without you!" "I have found someone so much better!" "Sometimes I log into your Netflix account just to see what you have been watching lately. And when I see you are rewatching our favourite show, I am contemplating wether you were watching it alone or introducing it to your new boyfriend. I miss watching shit with you so much." "I stole your facebook password and stalked you for at least two years after our breakup. I read almost every chat you wrote until I had enough of your shitty life. P.s.: Go to therapy, alcoholism isn't funny at all." SEE ALSO: Teen receives extremely blunt job rejection, fights back on Twitter "I never told you that I accidentally peed in your bed once while sleeping. And yes, you were lying next to me. Sorry for that, it wasn't on purpose." "You're such a loser! You created a twitter account for your cat!" "I really was disgusted by your body after a while, I do not know why." "I didnt go out for drinks after the 4th of July party. I went home with your brother" "You're a fucking sociopath and a pathological liar. You lie to everyone around you and get away with it. I wish I hadn't wasted almost six years of my life on you, you lying, cheating fuck. You told me that I was the strongest person you knew, and yes, even though it took me forever to get over the shit you pulled and I still doubt whether I can ever trust a guy again, I AM the strongest person you know. You almost succeeded in breaking me, but I'm still here, while you will always be the pathetic, cheating, lying excuse for a man you were in our relationship. I hope that I will never have to see you again. It gives me great pleasure to know that you will treat every single future girlfriend exactly the way you treated me. You're simply incapable of empathy, honesty and basic humanity. Karma is a bitch; therefore, I just have to believe that at some point, people will start to see through your facade of a charming, funny, successful and popular guy and see you for who you really are. Good luck then, because people will hate and detest the real you." "Your mother was right. You ARE an asshole." Mostly, these will make you realize that there is basically no text that's worth actually sending. BONUS: These animated sculptures are freakishly hypnotizing

Like any sensible person who's ever had their heart broken, you probably have a folder of half-cocked texts you've considered sending your ex but held back on.

Well, now you can take a peek into humanity's drafts folders thanks to a viral Google doc with the simple name, "texts i wanna send my ex."

Select All reports it was created by Sean Drohan on Valentine's Day, and it's currently got 540 entries and counting. It's a real who's who of twisted human emotions, and lots of them are pictures of pure pain.Â

There are a lot of them that we've likely all felt about someone we've ended things with:

"I want to touch you one more time"

"I'm so happy to have loved you and I hope you're doing well even though it been a couple of years"

Some are satisfyingly victorious:

"I lost 12 lbs without you!"

"I have found someone so much better!"

There are plenty of admissions that will make you sleep with one eye open:

"Sometimes I log into your Netflix account just to see what you have been watching lately. And when I see you are rewatching our favourite show, I am contemplating wether you were watching it alone or introducing it to your new boyfriend. I miss watching shit with you so much."

"I stole your facebook password and stalked you for at least two years after our breakup. I read almost every chat you wrote until I had enough of your shitty life. P.s.: Go to therapy, alcoholism isn't funny at all."

A few are amusing:

"I never told you that I accidentally peed in your bed once while sleeping. And yes, you were lying next to me. Sorry for that, it wasn't on purpose."

"You're such a loser! You created a twitter account for your cat!"

But many are crazy harsh:

"I really was disgusted by your body after a while, I do not know why."

"I didnt go out for drinks after the 4th of July party. I went home with your brother"

Some are not so much texts as they are novels:

"You're a fucking sociopath and a pathological liar. You lie to everyone around you and get away with it. I wish I hadn't wasted almost six years of my life on you, you lying, cheating fuck. You told me that I was the strongest person you knew, and yes, even though it took me forever to get over the shit you pulled and I still doubt whether I can ever trust a guy again, I AM the strongest person you know. You almost succeeded in breaking me, but I'm still here, while you will always be the pathetic, cheating, lying excuse for a man you were in our relationship. I hope that I will never have to see you again. It gives me great pleasure to know that you will treat every single future girlfriend exactly the way you treated me. You're simply incapable of empathy, honesty and basic humanity. Karma is a bitch; therefore, I just have to believe that at some point, people will start to see through your facade of a charming, funny, successful and popular guy and see you for who you really are. Good luck then, because people will hate and detest the real you."

And some are just plain perfect:

"Your mother was right. You ARE an asshole."

Mostly, these will make you realize that there is basically no text that's worth actually sending.