FBI: White supremacist talked of Dylann Roof-type attack
FBI: White supremacist talked of Dylann Roof-type attack
Shares                A white supremacist with felony convictions in South Carolina bought a gun from an undercover FBI agent, telling the agent he planned an attack in "the spirit of Dylann Roof," authorities said Thursday. Benjamin McDowell, 29, was arrested in Myrtle Beach shortly after buying the .40-caliber Glock and ammunition for $109 from the agent who picked him up at his mother's house, then took him to his grandfather's house to get the money, FBI agent Grant Lowe wrote in an affidavit. McDowell didn't have a specific target in mind, once telling the undercover agent he might just shoot at a party of black people, Lowe wrote. "I got the heart to do that s---, but I don't have the good training," McDowell said, according to the undercover agent. McDowell is charged as a felon in possession of a firearm. The gun he was sold had its firing pin filed down so it could not be used, Lowe wrote. McDowell is being held in the Horry County jail. Court records did not list an attorney, and no one responded to a message left at the phone number listed for his mother's address. Authorities began investigating McDowell in December after he threatened a synagogue on Facebook . Horry County Police had kept track of McDowell since his release from prison on felony burglary charges a few years ago because he made connections with white supremacists while behind bars, according to the affidavit. Several days after the threat, McDowell posted on Facebook again, saying fellow white supremacists were all talk and no action. "All they wanne (sic) do is stay loaded on drugs the Jews put here to destroy white man and they feast on the drugs. they should be Feasting on the enemy that stole their Heritage and their bloodline and trying to run us off of this Earth," McDowell wrote. "if you ain't got the heart to fight for Yahweh like dylann roof did, you need to shut the f--- up." Roof was sentenced to death in January on federal hate-crime charges for killing nine black worshippers at Emanuel AME church in Charleston in 2015. McDowell also wrote he would like to buy a gun, which got the undercover agent involved, Lowe wrote. McDowell wanted to commit the attack outside of Horry County and get away without being caught, but didn't give a specific time or place, Lowe wrote. Court records show that since 2008, McDowell has several convictions for burglary and a conviction for assault. "Screaming 'white power' was not getting the job done," the undercover agent told Lowe after talking to McDowell. "He indicated he desired a deeper response." ——— Follow Jeffrey Collins on Twitter at http://twitter.com/JSCollinsAP . His work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/jeffrey-collins ——— This story has been corrected to reflect that McDowell is 29, not 28. Shares                  FBI: White supremacist talked of Dylann Roof-type attack   Trump press conference fact-check: What the president got wrong and right   Man arrested after threatening 'Dylann Roof-style attack'   Man arrested for plotting to bomb Target stores   Trump to replace halted travel ban with new executive order   Russian spy ship now off Virginia coast   Judge tosses out defamation lawsuit against Bill Cosby   Russell Simmons, rabbi, imam holding 'I Am A Muslim' rally   Trump nominates Alexander Acosta as labor secretary   Britax recalls 676,000 strollers after 26 children injured   Trump cited in report finding increase in US hate groups for 2nd year in a row   Tea party gains voice in Trump's Cabinet with budget chief   VP Pence's wife aims to raise awareness about art therapy   Darrelle Revis charged with four felonies after altercation in Pittsburgh   Islamic State suicide bombing at Pakistan shrine kills 75   Flu-related doctor visits cut by 48 percent, thanks to vaccine, study finds   No, Bill Gates didn't tweet Trump will be 'one of the greatest presidents'   More arrests in connection with assassination of Kim Jong Un's half brother   In Seoul, assassination of Kim Jong Un’s half brother engrosses, doesn't amaze   Witness: 'It was her or me,' Durst said about slain friend   Lawsuit: Tiffany & Co. pushed out employee with cancer mutation   'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' Force Friday II announced for September   Matt Damon defends 'The Great Wall' against claims of whitewashing   'World News Tonight’s' David Muir on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

A white supremacist with felony convictions in South Carolina bought a gun from an undercover FBI agent, telling the agent he planned an attack in "the spirit of Dylann Roof," authorities said Thursday.

Benjamin McDowell, 29, was arrested in Myrtle Beach shortly after buying the .40-caliber Glock and ammunition for $109 from the agent who picked him up at his mother's house, then took him to his grandfather's house to get the money, FBI agent Grant Lowe wrote in an affidavit.

McDowell didn't have a specific target in mind, once telling the undercover agent he might just shoot at a party of black people, Lowe wrote.

"I got the heart to do that s---, but I don't have the good training," McDowell said, according to the undercover agent.

McDowell is charged as a felon in possession of a firearm. The gun he was sold had its firing pin filed down so it could not be used, Lowe wrote.

McDowell is being held in the Horry County jail. Court records did not list an attorney, and no one responded to a message left at the phone number listed for his mother's address.

Authorities began investigating McDowell in December after he threatened a synagogue on Facebook. Horry County Police had kept track of McDowell since his release from prison on felony burglary charges a few years ago because he made connections with white supremacists while behind bars, according to the affidavit.

Several days after the threat, McDowell posted on Facebook again, saying fellow white supremacists were all talk and no action.

"All they wanne (sic) do is stay loaded on drugs the Jews put here to destroy white man and they feast on the drugs. they should be Feasting on the enemy that stole their Heritage and their bloodline and trying to run us off of this Earth," McDowell wrote. "if you ain't got the heart to fight for Yahweh like dylann roof did, you need to shut the f--- up."

Roof was sentenced to death in January on federal hate-crime charges for killing nine black worshippers at Emanuel AME church in Charleston in 2015.

McDowell also wrote he would like to buy a gun, which got the undercover agent involved, Lowe wrote.

McDowell wanted to commit the attack outside of Horry County and get away without being caught, but didn't give a specific time or place, Lowe wrote.

Court records show that since 2008, McDowell has several convictions for burglary and a conviction for assault.

"Screaming 'white power' was not getting the job done," the undercover agent told Lowe after talking to McDowell. "He indicated he desired a deeper response."

———

Follow Jeffrey Collins on Twitter at http://twitter.com/JSCollinsAP . His work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/jeffrey-collins

———

This story has been corrected to reflect that McDowell is 29, not 28.