Unilever rejects Kraft Heinz mega-merger

US foods company Kraft Heinz has had a mega-merger proposal turned down by Unilever but said a tie-up between the makers of Heinz ketchup and Marmite is still on the table. In a statement to the stock market, Kraft Heinz said it “notes the recent speculation regarding a possible combination of Kraft and Unilever plc”. It added: “Kraft confirms that it has made a comprehensive proposal to Unilever about combining the two groups to create a leading consumer goods company with a mission of long-term growth and sustainable living.” The US firm said Unilever had declined its proposal but said that “we look forward to working to reach agreement on the terms of a transaction”. The statement suggests Kraft could return with a sweetened proposal, although it said there was “no certainty that any further formal proposal will be made to the board of Unilever or that an offer will be made at all or as to the terms of any transaction”. Topics  Mergers and acquisitions   Unilever

US foods company Kraft Heinz has had a mega-merger proposal turned down by Unilever but said a tie-up between the makers of Heinz ketchup and Marmite is still on the table.

In a statement to the stock market, Kraft Heinz said it “notes the recent speculation regarding a possible combination of Kraft and Unilever plc”.

It added: “Kraft confirms that it has made a comprehensive proposal to Unilever about combining the two groups to create a leading consumer goods company with a mission of long-term growth and sustainable living.”

Marmite maker: it was right to increase prices after Brexit vote Read more

The US firm said Unilever had declined its proposal but said that “we look forward to working to reach agreement on the terms of a transaction”.

The statement suggests Kraft could return with a sweetened proposal, although it said there was “no certainty that any further formal proposal will be made to the board of Unilever or that an offer will be made at all or as to the terms of any transaction”.

More details to follow ...