Man arrested by FBI after threatening 'Dylann Roof-style attack'
Man arrested after threatening 'Dylann Roof-style attack'
Shares               A man with a felony record in South Carolina purchased a gun from an undercover FBI agent with the intention of carrying out an attack in "the spirit of Dylann Roof ," authorities said Thursday. Benjamin McDowell, 29, who had allegedly become affiliated with white supremacist gangs during his time in prison, purchased a .40 caliber Glock handgun and ammunition, according to an affidavit filed by FBI agent Grant Lowe. According to the complaint, McDowell was arrested in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina shortly after purchasing the weapon and charged as a felon in possession of a firearm. The agent said that McDowell had made unspecified threats, once telling Lowe that he might shoot at a gathering of black people. Authorities began investigating McDowell in December after he threatened a local synagogue on Facebook. Several days later, he again posted to Facebook, complaining that white supremacists were often unwilling to act on their convictions. "All they wanne (sic) do is stay loaded on drugs the Jews put here to destroy white man and they feast on the drugs. they should be Feasting on the enemy that stole their Heritage and their bloodline and trying to run us off of this Earth," McDowell wrote. "if you ain't got the heart to fight for Yahweh like dylann roof did, you need to shut the f--- up." On or about Jan. 6, 2017, according to the complaint, McDowell had requested an "iron," a code word for a gun, over Facebook Instant Messenger. Court records show that since 2008, McDowell's criminal record included charges for assault and burglary. It also said local authorities had kept tabs on him prior to December because of the alleged white supremacist connections he had made in prison. Dylann Roof was sentence to death last month for the 2015 massacre of 9 black worshipers at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina. Shares                  Man arrested after threatening 'Dylann Roof-style attack'   Trump press conference fact-check: What the president got wrong and right   Powerful storm pelts California and brings risk of flooding   Pope: Migration isn't a danger, it's a challenge for growth   Robert Harward turns down national security adviser position   Senate on track to confirm Scott Pruitt as EPA administrator   Russell Simmons, rabbi, imam holding 'I Am A Muslim' rally   Man arrested for plotting to bomb Target stores   Death toll in Baghdad car bomb attack claimed by IS at 59   Kremlin denies any disappointments in ties with Trump govt   Russian spy ship now off Virginia coast   Judge tosses out defamation lawsuit against Bill Cosby   VP Pence's wife aims to raise awareness about art therapy   Samsung family succession hits snag with chief's arrest   Darrelle Revis charged with four felonies after altercation in Pittsburgh   Flu-related doctor visits cut by 48 percent, thanks to vaccine, study finds   No, Bill Gates didn't tweet Trump will be 'one of the greatest presidents'   Dakota Access Pipeline protesters meet with authorities over emergency evacuation order   Spain's Princess Cristina not guilty in tax fraud case   Tiffany's pushed out employee with cancer mutation   'La La Land' and 'Hacksaw Ridge' editors reveal movie-making secrets   Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd open up about parenting   'World News Tonight’s' David Muir on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

A man with a felony record in South Carolina purchased a gun from an undercover FBI agent with the intention of carrying out an attack in "the spirit of Dylann Roof," authorities said Thursday.

Benjamin McDowell, 29, who had allegedly become affiliated with white supremacist gangs during his time in prison, purchased a .40 caliber Glock handgun and ammunition, according to an affidavit filed by FBI agent Grant Lowe.

According to the complaint, McDowell was arrested in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina shortly after purchasing the weapon and charged as a felon in possession of a firearm.

The agent said that McDowell had made unspecified threats, once telling Lowe that he might shoot at a gathering of black people.

Authorities began investigating McDowell in December after he threatened a local synagogue on Facebook. Several days later, he again posted to Facebook, complaining that white supremacists were often unwilling to act on their convictions.

"All they wanne (sic) do is stay loaded on drugs the Jews put here to destroy white man and they feast on the drugs. they should be Feasting on the enemy that stole their Heritage and their bloodline and trying to run us off of this Earth," McDowell wrote. "if you ain't got the heart to fight for Yahweh like dylann roof did, you need to shut the f--- up."

On or about Jan. 6, 2017, according to the complaint, McDowell had requested an "iron," a code word for a gun, over Facebook Instant Messenger.

Court records show that since 2008, McDowell's criminal record included charges for assault and burglary. It also said local authorities had kept tabs on him prior to December because of the alleged white supremacist connections he had made in prison.

Dylann Roof was sentence to death last month for the 2015 massacre of 9 black worshipers at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina.