B1A4 Get Intimate With Fans & Spotlight Musicality at New York Concert Return
B1A4 Get Intimate With Fans & Spotlight Musicality at New York Concert Return
B1A4 Get Intimate With Fans & Spotlight Musicality at New York Concert Return  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  It had been more than two years since B1A4 had performed in New York, but the boy band made sure to get as close with fans as possible Wednesday nightÂ with aÂ concert at Stage 48Â that spotlighted the quintet's musicianship and in-tuneÂ unity.Â The Midtown Manhattan venueÂ had an intimate feel with B1A4 only separated from the first row by a small barrier, encouragingÂ Jinyoung, Baro, CNU, SandeulÂ and GongchanÂ to sing right up in fans' faces and take as many selfies as they could handle. Attendees were still pouring inÂ when the opening notes of "Melancholy" --Â a cut off their most recent album from late 2016 --Â opened the concert and set the stage for what would be a setÂ mostly focused on their recent album along with major singles and fan favorites.  Highlights from the show included moments where the band slowed things down, particularly onÂ track "Crushing on You," where the guys sat on the stage's edge and crooned directly to the fans screaming in front of them,Â along with theÂ performance ofÂ "If," which spotlighted the band's excellent vocal blend. Fans chanted along to performances of past singles "Lonely," where the band used silky scarves as props, and their most recent "A Lie,"Â which saw SandeulÂ belting at his absoluteÂ hardest. B1A4 also took fans in a "time machine" segmentÂ where they dolled out a medley of past hits includingÂ "Beautiful Target," "Solo Day" and "What's Happening" -- all majorly fun songs, but not totally in-tune with the mood ofÂ , making the rapid-speed rendtions understandable. While the stage was bare and there were no costume changes until the encore, B1A4Â kept viewers captivated with a non-stop set, quickly moving from track to track while focusing more on the guys' performance skills than antics or stunts -- a tough gig for any K-pop band and not one most could successfully pull off.Â It was remarkable to see how seamlessly the band could transition from Sandeul and JinyoungÂ crooningÂ alongside each other, followed by a high note to CNU, before Baro would jump in with a rap, like they did on "If." It's those types of elements that prove why B1A4 -- a band that mostly writes and composes their own material -- can play an intimate venue like Stage 48 where other K-pop acts would likelyÂ flounder. During their goodbyes to fans, member BaroÂ candidly told the audience via a translator , "This is our third time in the States, we've been a little bit worried --Â we were worried you might have forgotten us." While the fans loudly guffawed at that idea, the band's rapper followed up saying, "Thank you for never forgetting us and being with us tonight. I'm so happy to be here and see all the Banas in New York... You'll wait for us, right? Promise?"  And when the guys came back for their encoreÂ the quintet ensured fans would rememberÂ them by snapping photos with as many fans as they could in the front row and spraying the entire ground-level audience with the trays of water bottles they brought onstage. Whether it was due toÂ the band's showmanship or theÂ fact fans were soaked walking into theÂ February cold,Â it's unlikely anyone in attendanceÂ will forget B1A4Â after Wednesday's show, which stands as proof the group continuesÂ to bring something fresh and artistic with every release and concert.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

It had been more than two years since B1A4 had performed in New York, but the boy band made sure to get as close with fans as possible Wednesday nightÂ with aÂ concert at Stage 48Â that spotlighted the quintet's musicianship and in-tuneÂ unity.Â

The Midtown Manhattan venueÂ had an intimate feel with B1A4 only separated from the first row by a small barrier, encouragingÂ Jinyoung, Baro, CNU, SandeulÂ and GongchanÂ to sing right up in fans' faces and take as many selfies as they could handle.

Attendees were still pouring inÂ when the opening notes of "Melancholy" --Â a cut off their most recent album Good TimingÂ from late 2016 --Â opened the concert and set the stage for what would be a setÂ mostly focused on their recent album along with major singles and fan favorites.

Highlights from the show included moments where the band slowed things down, particularly onÂ Good TimingÂ track "Crushing on You," where the guys sat on the stage's edge and crooned directly to the fans screaming in front of them,Â along with theÂ performance ofÂ "If," which spotlighted the band's excellent vocal blend. Fans chanted along to performances of past singles "Lonely," where the band used silky scarves as props, and their most recent "A Lie,"Â which saw SandeulÂ belting at his absoluteÂ hardest.

B1A4 also took fans in a "time machine" segmentÂ where they dolled out a medley of past hits includingÂ "Beautiful Target," "Solo Day" and "What's Happening" -- all majorly fun songs, but not totally in-tune with the mood ofÂ Good Timing, making the rapid-speed rendtions understandable.

While the stage was bare and there were no costume changes until the encore, B1A4Â kept viewers captivated with a non-stop set, quickly moving from track to track while focusing more on the guys' performance skills than antics or stunts -- a tough gig for any K-pop band and not one most could successfully pull off.Â It was remarkable to see how seamlessly the band could transition from Sandeul and JinyoungÂ crooningÂ alongside each other, followed by a high note to CNU, before Baro would jump in with a rap, like they did on "If." It's those types of elements that prove why B1A4 -- a band that mostly writes and composes their own material -- can play an intimate venue like Stage 48 where other K-pop acts would likelyÂ flounder.

During their goodbyes to fans, member BaroÂ candidly told the audience via a translator , "This is our third time in the States, we've been a little bit worried --Â we were worried you might have forgotten us." While the fans loudly guffawed at that idea, the band's rapper followed up saying, "Thank you for never forgetting us and being with us tonight. I'm so happy to be here and see all the Banas in New York... You'll wait for us, right? Promise?"

And when the guys came back for their encoreÂ the quintet ensured fans would rememberÂ them by snapping photos with as many fans as they could in the front row and spraying the entire ground-level audience with the trays of water bottles they brought onstage. Whether it was due toÂ the band's showmanship or theÂ fact fans were soaked walking into theÂ February cold,Â it's unlikely anyone in attendanceÂ will forget B1A4Â after Wednesday's show, which stands as proof the group continuesÂ to bring something fresh and artistic with every release and concert.