Man jailed for shooting cats in Surrey

Press Association   A man has been jailed over a shooting spree that led to one cat’s death and left six others injured. Franky Mills, 19, opened fire on the pets with an airgun in parts of Surrey during a 12-day period in March and April last year. One of the animals, Ruby, had to be put down after being shot in the neck in Cranleigh. Another cat, Pebbles, lost an eye. The owners of a third cat, Snoopy, who had a leg amputated after being shot, said their son had started to struggle at school after taking news of the attack badly. In a statement read at Guildford crown court, they said: “The person who shot our cat has changed our family forever and this is something I will never forgive or forget.” Mills, of Farncombe, pleaded guilty to seven counts of criminal damage and seven counts of possession of a firearm, Surrey police said. He will serve 12 months in jail and 12 months on licence. Mills was also fined £100, and his phone and air weapons were confiscated to be destroyed. Sgt Paul Eden, of Surrey police, said: “Mills’ behaviour is deeply concerning and completely unacceptable and his actions have caused a great deal of distress to a number of families.” A witness who provided the registration details of Mills’ van will be awarded £2,000 from the animal rights charity Peta. Peta’s director of international programmes, Mimi Bekhechi, said: “Animal abusers are a danger to everyone. They take their issues out on whoever is available to them - human or non-human.” Topics  Crime   Animal welfare

A man has been jailed over a shooting spree that led to one cat’s death and left six others injured.



Franky Mills, 19, opened fire on the pets with an airgun in parts of Surrey during a 12-day period in March and April last year.

One of the animals, Ruby, had to be put down after being shot in the neck in Cranleigh. Another cat, Pebbles, lost an eye.

The owners of a third cat, Snoopy, who had a leg amputated after being shot, said their son had started to struggle at school after taking news of the attack badly.



In a statement read at Guildford crown court, they said: “The person who shot our cat has changed our family forever and this is something I will never forgive or forget.”

Mills, of Farncombe, pleaded guilty to seven counts of criminal damage and seven counts of possession of a firearm, Surrey police said.

He will serve 12 months in jail and 12 months on licence. Mills was also fined £100, and his phone and air weapons were confiscated to be destroyed.

Sgt Paul Eden, of Surrey police, said: “Mills’ behaviour is deeply concerning and completely unacceptable and his actions have caused a great deal of distress to a number of families.”

A witness who provided the registration details of Mills’ van will be awarded £2,000 from the animal rights charity Peta.

Peta’s director of international programmes, Mimi Bekhechi, said: “Animal abusers are a danger to everyone. They take their issues out on whoever is available to them - human or non-human.”