A gene discovery may help cure Parkinson's disease
A gene discovery may help cure Parkinson's disease


A 'master switch' in the brain could prevent Parkinson's disease, scientists have revealed.

The breakthrough could pave the way for a drug that potentially cures the condition by stopping brain cells from dying.

By turning on proteins that boost the energy of neurons, it would protect them from destruction, a study found.

A 'switch' in the brain that boosts the energy of neurons may help prevent Parkinson's disease

Researchers from the University of Leicester found that a gene known as ATF4 plays a key role in the onset of Parkinson's in fruit flies.

Acting as a switch, ATF4 helps to control the energy stations of cells - known as mitochondria - including neurons.

Study author Dr Miguel Martins said: 'When the expression of ATF4 is reduced in flies, expression of these mitochondrial genes drops.

'Interestingly, when we over expressed these mitochondrial genes in fly models of Parkinson's, mitochondrial function was reestablished and neuron loss was avoided.'



This groundbreaking discovery could help to prevent or delay Parkinson symptoms.

Dr Martins said: 'Studying the roles of genes such as ATF4 in human neurons could lead to tailored interventions that could one day prevent or delay the neuronal loss seen in Parkinson's.'

Experts say the breakthrough discovery could pave the way for new Parkinson's treatments

In the UK, Parkinson's affects one in 500 people and involves parts of the brain become progressively damaged over many years.

Although most of the 10,000 people diagnosed each year are aged over 60, one in 20 is under 40.

BLOOD TEST FOR PARKINSON'S A blood test could give doctors the first quick and simple way of diagnosing Parkinson's disease, a study suggested earlier this month. Until now, patients have had to undergo a spinal fluid test to determine whether symptoms are caused by Parkinson's. But experts at Lund University in Sweden discovered a protein in the blood which is an accurate marker of the disease.

Figures in the US suggest that the neurological condition affects around a million adults.

The three main symptoms are involuntary shaking of particular parts of the body, slow movement and stiff and inflexible muscles.

Current drug treatments only deal with symptoms of the condition, such as tremors, but don't cure the disease or prevent it from worsening.

Most cases have no known cause although scientists suspect a mix of genetic and environmental factors.

Air pollution, traffic and pesticides used in farming may increase a person's risk of developing Parkinson's, however, this is unproven.

This comes after groundbreaking research in December found that Parkinson's disease may start in the stomach.

Scientists from California Institute of Technology found the first ever conclusive link between gut microbes and the development of Parkinson's-like movement disorders in mice.