7 FinTech Companies Helping Millennials Dominate Their Finances This Year
7 FinTech Companies Helping Millennials Dominate Their Finances This Year
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jeff Rose       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Fintech companies to watch If you’re a millennial, you already know just how hard it is to get ahead. Student loan debt, much of which is shouldered by millennials, surged to $1.3 trillion dollars last year. That leaves the average college graduate ages 20 - 30 with a monthly payment of $351. And let’s not forget that, as of last year, a large percentage of Of course this news is depressing, but it’s important to note that millennials do have one huge advantage. Unlike their predecessors before them, millennials have a knack for using technology to improve their finances and their lives. With this app, retirement savers get access to portfolio customization, automated portfolio rebalancing, tax loss harvesting, and special tools that help individuals hone their savings strategies. With the software's RetireGuide, users can also tweak their retirement plans and portfolio to create a customized retirement strategy that can help them reach their goals.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

If you’re a millennial, you already know just how hard it is to get ahead. Student loan debt, much of which is shouldered by millennials, surged to $1.3 trillion dollars last year.

That leaves the average college graduate ages 20 - 30 with a monthly payment of $351. And let’s not forget that, as of last year, a large percentage of millennials with a college degree were stuck working low-wage, dead end jobs.

So, while many millennials are working hard to get out of debt, they struggle with low wages that make even keeping up with their bills that much harder

Of course this news is depressing, but it’s important to note that millennials do have one huge advantage. Unlike their predecessors before them, millennials have a knack for using technology to improve their finances and their lives.

And really, the younger generation isn't one that's ready to sit back and let life take its course. Through hard work and perseverance, today's youth have big plans for the future - and those plans don't include struggling with debt and underemployment forever.

7 Companies Helping Millennials Rule Their Finances This Year

With the use of smartphone apps and software programs, young people have mastered the art of working smarter (not harder) and leveraging programs that make managing money easier.

Ready to learn more? Here are seven companies and products helping millennials dominate their finances this year:

1. Mint

With more debt to worry about than previous generations, millennials have gotten used to counting their pennies. With Mint.com, millennials can also make the most of the dollars they work so hard to earn. Using the applications’ friendly online interface, consumers can use Mint to create budgets, track spending in specific categories, pay bills, and even check their credit score.

One big benefit millennials love about Mint.com is that a base subscription is absolutely free. And while it can take some time to set all the features up and link your accounts, you can mostly set Mint.com on autopilot thereafter.

While it might seem overwhelming to figure out where your money goes each month, Mint.com takes the mystery out of the equation by showing you exactly how you spend - and how it affects your finances over all.

The end result: With Mint.com, millennials are able to track their bills and grow their savings all in one place.

2. Betterment

Betterment.com is an online financial advisor that helps retirement savers of all ages make smarter decisions with their investments. As a robo-advisor, Betterment aggregates all of your accounts in one place and assesses your portfolio to find room for improvement.

With this app, retirement savers get access to portfolio customization, automated portfolio rebalancing, tax loss harvesting, and special tools that help individuals hone their savings strategies. With the software's RetireGuide, users can also tweak their retirement plans and portfolio to create a customized retirement strategy that can help them reach their goals.

While Betterment isn’t free, many millennials choose robo-advisors like Betterment for their low costs and accessibility.

Where their parent’s generation were more likely to hire a financial advisor in their local community, millennials feel perfectly comfortable relying on technology to help them craft careful investing strategies. With Betterment, millennials have found an easy-to-use platform that speaks their language.

The end result: Millennials use Betterment to make better investing decisions with the help of technology.

3. Haven Life

While everyone knows they need quality life insurance, not everyone takes the steps to buy an affordable, term policy.

Fortunately, Haven Life has changed everything by offering affordable life insurance policies online. Just by filling out a simple questionnaire, millennials everywhere are gaining access to term policies they can afford.

Believe it or not, but a 25-year-old man in excellent health can get a twenty-year term policy worth $250,000 for as little as $12.88 per month.

But the reason millennials in particular are flocking to Haven Life extends well beyond affordability. With Haven Life, millennials in good health may be able to qualify for InstantTerm – a type of policy that doesn’t require a medical exam.

With InstantTerm, millennials who qualify can apply for life insurance in the morning and have a policy in force that day. It doesn't get any easier - or more convenient - than that.

The end result: Haven Life helps millennials buy the life insurance they know they need without all the hassle and stress.

4. Personal Capital

Personal Capital is another robo-advisor attracting millennials in droves. This is partly because the platform includes a personal financial advisor that offers tailored advice, but also because Personal Capital offers an array of valuable tools.

Even if you only sign up for a free account with Personal Capital, you’ll gain access to resources that can help you make smarter decisions with your money.

With Personal Capital’s fee analyzer, for example, you can see how investing fees are eating away at your returns – then compare your fees to the baseline. And with their net worth tracker, you can get a holistic view of your finances while tracking your net worth in real time.

Like Mint.com, Personal Capital also lets you track your spending by purchase or by category. For millennials watching their money closely, having access to this tool for free can really pay off.

And if you're tired of spending too much and regretting it later, Personal Capital can help you confront reality by showing you exactly where your money went.

The end result: Millennials rely on Personal Capital to monitor their net worth and get a holistic look at their finances.