Five Year-Old Bengaluru Girl Burnt Alive By Neighbour After Alleged Sexual Abuse, Police Refuse To Even Record Her Statement
Five-Year-Old Bengaluru Girl Burnt Alive After Sexual Abuse, Cops Refuse To Register Report
Five-Year-Old Bengaluru Girl Burnt Alive After Alleged Sexual Abuse, Police Refuse To Even Record Her Statement In a shocking case of indifference and  refusal to do their duty, Bengaluru police is being accused of refusing to record a statement of a five-year-old girl suspected to have been set ablaze by her neighbour after alleged sexual abuse. Cops in Bannerghatta police station limits waited for the girl to succumb to her injuries and only then arrest the accused - that too on the intervention of the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR). The accused, Suresh, a 55-year-old man who works as a housekeeper at a private school, is the neighbour of the five-year-old victim. According to the victim's family police reportedly did not even bother to record the girl's statement, forcing the parents to record an audio clip of their dying little daughter accusing the neighbour. The police claim the accused himself had reportedly rushed the girl to a nearby clinic before she was referred to Victoria Hospital. The commission has now issued a notice to the cops seeking the probe details. Meanwhile, the police have claimed that they were waiting for the medical examination report from the hospital. Medical superintendent of Victoria Hospital, Ramesh KT, said, "We conducted the medical examination and sent a report to the commission. The medical examination was done before the death of the victim." "We have arrested the accused Suresh. During the interrogation he has admitted to having sent the kid to buy beedi from a nearby shop but that he did not set her ablaze. He said the kid, who was playing outside, came running to his house and she was already afire," Bannerghatta police inspector Murali said. He then took her to the bathroom, poured water and later rushed her to a nearby clinic. The doctors then referred them to the Victoria hospital. The accused said his daughter and five-month-old grandson were also at home when the incident happened. We have interrogated the daughter too. She told us that the girl came running into the house after her dress had caught fire. She said her father tried to douse the fire and then they immediately rushed her to the hospital," the inspector said.

In a shocking case of indifference and refusal to do their duty, Bengaluru police is being accused of refusing to record a statement of a five-year-old girl suspected to have been set ablaze by her neighbour after alleged sexual abuse.

Cops in Bannerghatta police station limits waited for the girl to succumb to her injuries and only then arrest the accused - that too on the intervention of the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR).

Siasat/representational image

The accused, Suresh, a 55-year-old man who works as a housekeeper at a private school, is the neighbour of the five-year-old victim.

According to the victim's family police reportedly did not even bother to record the girl's statement, forcing the parents to record an audio clip of their dying little daughter accusing the neighbour.

According to the family, the accused Suresh, lured her to his residence on the pretext of buying him a packet of beedi from a nearby shop on February 10. The girl had just returned from Anganwadi and her parents were not at home.

The police claim the accused himself had reportedly rushed the girl to a nearby clinic before she was referred to Victoria Hospital.

The commission has now issued a notice to the cops seeking the probe details. Meanwhile, the police have claimed that they were waiting for the medical examination report from the hospital.

Medical superintendent of Victoria Hospital, Ramesh KT, said, "We conducted the medical examination and sent a report to the commission. The medical examination was done before the death of the victim."

BCCL/representational image

"We have arrested the accused Suresh. During the interrogation he has admitted to having sent the kid to buy beedi from a nearby shop but that he did not set her ablaze. He said the kid, who was playing outside, came running to his house and she was already afire," Bannerghatta police inspector Murali said.

He then took her to the bathroom, poured water and later rushed her to a nearby clinic. The doctors then referred them to the Victoria hospital. The accused said his daughter and five-month-old grandson were also at home when the incident happened. We have interrogated the daughter too. She told us that the girl came running into the house after her dress had caught fire. She said her father tried to douse the fire and then they immediately rushed her to the hospital," the inspector said.

Don't Miss 3.1 K SHARES 81.4 K SHARES 21.7 K SHARES 19 K SHARES 18.1 K SHARES

Amit Singh, superintendent of police, Bengaluru Rural, said, "The parents are blaming the accused of sexual abuse, but the doctors have ruled out that. Maybe she might have caught fire outside. We are still investigating."

With inputs from Bangalore Mirror