People Can Relate Hard To This Raccoon That Got Stuck On A Trash Truck
People Can Relate Hard To This Raccoon That Got Stuck On A Trash Truck
On Friday, reporter Helena B. Evich tweeted a photo of a sad sight: a poor little raccoon that got stuck on a trash truck while looking for food. This raccoon is having a rough morning-just wanted some trash & ended up in Rosslyn!

>And yes I alerted the driver Evich tweeted she saw the animal in Rossalyn, Virginia. Poor lil’ fella! People immediately felt for the little guy. @hbottemiller @AndyRichter oh poor guy. hope he's okay. And many said they could relate to the raccoon’s plight. @hbottemiller when you have a brilliant plan that maybe you didn't think all the way through. “‘Everything’s fine,’ thought the trash panda. Everything, indeed, was not.” @hbottemiller "Everything's fine," thought the trash panda. Everything, indeed, was not. Of course, since everything is political now, people soon began to make politics and Trump jokes. @hbottemiller @yashar #deportationforce rounding up hardworking members of the animal kingdom Some thought the raccoon was the perfect metaphor for America at the moment. @hbottemiller @AndyRichter This raccoon is the perfect analog to our country at the moment. Riding the highway to oblivion. Or maybe, just the GOP. @hbottemiller I saw this as a visual metaphor for GOP legislators right now...quietly hanging on. A little nervous. Or Trump supporters. @hbottemiller when u find out half way into the ride that the "Trump Train" is really just a garbage truck😂 “Like all of us: terrified raccoons clinging to a hurtling American garbage truck, looking back with no idea where we’re going,” one person said. @hbottemiller Like all of us: terrified racoons clinging to a hurtling American garbage truck, looking back with no idea where we're going FYI, for those concerned about the raccoon, Evich tweeted she alerted the company and gave the truck number. FYI, animal lovers: The company was super responsive, has the truck #, etc. Hang in there, friend! @hbottemiller Great inspirational office poster.   This Is How Canadian Bartenders Are Trying To Make...    Everything You Need To Know About Laverne Cox's Groundbreaking...

@hbottemiller when you have a brilliant plan that maybe you didn't think all the way through.