Want to Be a CEO? It Helps to Look the Part
Want to Be a CEO? It Helps to Look the Part
If you want to be a chief executive officer, it helps to look the part. So suggests research from a trio of Duke University professors who asked more than 2,000 study participants to look at photos of faces and rate the images based on how competent the person depicted appeared to be. Study participants were shown pairs of photos, one of a CEO and one of a non-CEO of the same race, age and gender. Despite not knowing which of the pair was the CEO and having no other biographical knowledge, the online survey takers (mostly students at Duke University) rated the CEOs as looking more competent than the non-CEOs, based on facial characteristics. In a separate experiment, survey takers labeled large-company CEOs as looking more competent than their counterparts at smaller firms. ‘The opposite of baby-faced’ “The basic idea is that looks do matter for a CEO,” says John Graham, a professor of finance at Duke’s Fuqua School of Business and one of the authors of the research , which has been accepted for publication in the journal Management Science. Dr. Graham notes that looking competent isn’t the same thing as general attractiveness. The faces rated as competent-looking typically had square jaws, overall sharper features and appeared more mature. (Results focused on male CEOs because there weren’t enough female chief executives in the sample, he says). Journal Report Podcast Listen to Alina Dizik using the player below, or click here . Subscribe to the Journal Report podcast at wsj.com , on iTunes or Google Play Music . “Don’t be thinking handsome,” Dr. Graham says. It’s more like “the opposite of baby-faced.” Indeed, a look of competence was prized more than attractiveness in the leaders, he says. In addition to finding that there often is a certain look associated with being a CEO, it also is linked to higher compensation, the research found. That especially held true with outside hires, where first impressions typically play a bigger role. In short, “you are more likely to be a CEO and more likely to be paid more when you look competent,” Dr. Graham says. No correlation The idea that top company executives could be chosen even partially based on looks was surprising given that boards pick CEOs by examining their records and experience, says Dr. Graham. “You’d think that all the other influences would overwhelm anything having to do with looks,” he says. But even CEOs who had been in their jobs for a long time were identified as being more competent-looking, which was surprising given that their performances could be analyzed easily by company boards. Understanding these subconscious behavioral biases is important because there is no evidence that looking competent leads to better business decisions, according to the researchers. “The look of competence isn't correlated with superior performance,” Dr. Graham says.      Bosses Should Stop Thinking of  A, B, and C Players Putting employees into performance boxes hurts the workers—and the company. Click to Read Story      Cruise Lines Woo the Never-Cruisers Arnold Donald, CEO of Carnival, says the answer is technology and exceeding expectations. Click to Read Story     Advertisement   Podcast Name Want to Be CEO? Study Suggests Looks Matter New research suggests people think of CEOs with certain facial traits as being more competent. Wall Street Journal Contributor Alina Dizik joins us with the details. Click to Listen     More in C-Suite     Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print  Most Popular Videos  Turkish Butcher 'Salt Bae' Has the Internet Salivating  Paris Protests Over Alleged Police Rape Turn Violent   Disney Cuts Ties to YouTube Superstar PewDiePie    Trump Defends Himself, Rejects Critics on Russia    BeatsX Review: Apple’s Other Wireless Earbuds  Most Popular Articles      Jared Kushner Delivers Critique of CNN to Time Warner Executive        PewDiePie Says WSJ Took Anti-Semitic Content Out of Context        Spies Keep Trump in Dark on Intelligence in Sign of Mistrust        With $15 Left in the Bank, a Baby Boomer Makes Peace With Less        Trump Administration Backs Off Talk of Closer Russia Ties

Looking competent isn’t the same thing as general attractiveness, one researcher notes. Photo: iStockphoto/Getty Images

If you want to be a chief executive officer, it helps to look the part.

So suggests research from a trio of Duke University professors who asked more than 2,000 study participants to look at photos of faces and rate the images based on how competent the person depicted appeared to be.

Study participants were shown pairs of photos, one of a CEO and one of a non-CEO of the same race, age and gender. Despite not knowing which of the pair was the CEO and having no other biographical knowledge, the online survey takers (mostly students at Duke University) rated the CEOs as looking more competent than the non-CEOs, based on facial characteristics.

In a separate experiment, survey takers labeled large-company CEOs as looking more competent than their counterparts at smaller firms.

‘The opposite of baby-faced’

“The basic idea is that looks do matter for a CEO,” says John Graham, a professor of finance at Duke’s Fuqua School of Business and one of the authors of the research, which has been accepted for publication in the journal Management Science.

Dr. Graham notes that looking competent isn’t the same thing as general attractiveness. The faces rated as competent-looking typically had square jaws, overall sharper features and appeared more mature. (Results focused on male CEOs because there weren’t enough female chief executives in the sample, he says).

Journal Report Podcast Listen to Alina Dizik using the player below, or click here. Subscribe to the Journal Report podcast at wsj.com, on iTunes or Google Play Music.

“Don’t be thinking handsome,” Dr. Graham says. It’s more like “the opposite of baby-faced.” Indeed, a look of competence was prized more than attractiveness in the leaders, he says.

In addition to finding that there often is a certain look associated with being a CEO, it also is linked to higher compensation, the research found. That especially held true with outside hires, where first impressions typically play a bigger role. In short, “you are more likely to be a CEO and more likely to be paid more when you look competent,” Dr. Graham says.

No correlation

The idea that top company executives could be chosen even partially based on looks was surprising given that boards pick CEOs by examining their records and experience, says Dr. Graham. “You’d think that all the other influences would overwhelm anything having to do with looks,” he says.

But even CEOs who had been in their jobs for a long time were identified as being more competent-looking, which was surprising given that their performances could be analyzed easily by company boards.

Understanding these subconscious behavioral biases is important because there is no evidence that looking competent leads to better business decisions, according to the researchers.

“The look of competence isn't correlated with superior performance,” Dr. Graham says.

Ms. Dizik is a writer in Chicago. She can be reached at reports@wsj.com.