White House Denies It Weighed Using National Guard as Deportation Force
White House Denies It Weighed Using National Guard as Deportation Force
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration denied on Friday that it was considering using National Guard troops as a deportation force to round up undocumented immigrants, rebutting a report by The Associated Press that cited an 11-page memorandum describing such an effort. A senior administration official at the Department of Homeland Security said the memo in the news report was an early draft that never made it to the secretary and was not seriously considered by the department. The A.P. said the memo called for the militarization of immigration enforcement by authorizing state governors to mobilize up to 100,000 National Guard troops to find people who are not authorized to be in the United States and send them home. The troops would be acting to carry out President Trump’s Jan. 25 executive order , in which he directed the construction of a wall along the border with Mexico and called for a more aggressive effort to deport undocumented immigrants. Increasing the number of people deported will require more resources at the border and in the nation’s interior. Mr. Trump’s order called for a larger number of border patrol and customs agents, but that would require more money from Congress, something that is many months away, at best. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy A proposal to use the National Guard could, in theory, provide more resources to the department in the short term. But it would also raise alarms among advocates for immigrants, who for years have fought against giving local law enforcement the authority to search for and detain undocumented immigrants on behalf of the federal immigration services. Advertisement Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Friday morning that the report by The A.P. was “100 percent not true.” “It is false,” he said. “It is irresponsible to be saying this.” He told reporters traveling with the president to an event in South Carolina that “there is no effort at all to round up, to utilize the National Guard to round up illegal immigrants.” He added that “I wish you guys had asked before you tweeted.” An A.P. reporter noted that the news service asked for comment multiple times before the article was published. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

WASHINGTON — The Trump administration denied on Friday that it was considering using National Guard troops as a deportation force to round up undocumented immigrants, rebutting a report by The Associated Press that cited an 11-page memorandum describing such an effort.

A senior administration official at the Department of Homeland Security said the memo in the news report was an early draft that never made it to the secretary and was not seriously considered by the department.

The A.P. said the memo called for the militarization of immigration enforcement by authorizing state governors to mobilize up to 100,000 National Guard troops to find people who are not authorized to be in the United States and send them home.

The troops would be acting to carry out President Trump’s Jan. 25 executive order, in which he directed the construction of a wall along the border with Mexico and called for a more aggressive effort to deport undocumented immigrants.

Increasing the number of people deported will require more resources at the border and in the nation’s interior. Mr. Trump’s order called for a larger number of border patrol and customs agents, but that would require more money from Congress, something that is many months away, at best.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

A proposal to use the National Guard could, in theory, provide more resources to the department in the short term. But it would also raise alarms among advocates for immigrants, who for years have fought against giving local law enforcement the authority to search for and detain undocumented immigrants on behalf of the federal immigration services.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Friday morning that the report by The A.P. was “100 percent not true.”

“It is false,” he said. “It is irresponsible to be saying this.”

He told reporters traveling with the president to an event in South Carolina that “there is no effort at all to round up, to utilize the National Guard to round up illegal immigrants.” He added that “I wish you guys had asked before you tweeted.”

An A.P. reporter noted that the news service asked for comment multiple times before the article was published.