Freezing Genitals to Boost Sex Drive Is Apparently a Thing People Do Now
Freezing Genitals to Boost Sex Drive Is Apparently a Thing People Do Now
Freezing one's genitals on purpose is apparently all the rage overseas.  reports that customers at Ainscow Spa in Manchester now have the ability to try out a so-called "Love Mist" treatment, which includes the subzero freezing of penises and vaginas. The service, which received very -y and -y write-ups in the and the earlier this week, claims to "lift the endorphin levels and sex drive" of those adventurous enough to endure it. The appearance of one's genitals is also alleged to see potential improvement following this mist of love. Related Pornhub's 2016 Year in Review Shows U.S. Still Loves Kim Kardashian, Mia Khalifa, and Threesomes Survey Says Your Cracked iPhone Might Be The Reason You're Not Getting Any Is Unsafe Sex the Latest Kink? "When the sub-zero temperature covers the skin, the sudden drop in heat stimulates the temperature receptors, prompting the brain to transmit messages throughout the body so the blood vessels undergo 'vasoconstriction,'" the spa said of the Cryotherapy UK treatment. "This produces a quicker blood flow and ramps up endorphin levels, generating a natural high." But, hey, gotta ask: Is this cryo shit actually safe? Does it even work? According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the answers remain less than definitive. "Given a growing interest from consumers in whole body cryotherapy, the FDA has informally reviewed the medical literature available on this subject," Aron Yustein, an FDA Center for Devices and Radiological health medical officer, said in July 2016. "We found very little evidence about its safety or effectiveness in treating the conditions for which it is being promoted." So yeah. Just use extreme caution when considering a genitalia deep-freeze. And if getting frozen isn't really your preferred method of boosting sexual pleasure, just invest in some must-have toys instead.

Freezing one's genitals on purpose is apparently all the rage overseas. Men's Health reports that customers at Ainscow Spa in Manchester now have the ability to try out a so-called "Love Mist" treatment, which includes the subzero freezing of penises and vaginas.

The service, which received very Sun-y and Mirror-y write-ups in the Sun and the Mirror earlier this week, claims to "lift the endorphin levels and sex drive" of those adventurous enough to endure it. The appearance of one's genitals is also alleged to see potential improvement following this mist of love.

"When the sub-zero temperature covers the skin, the sudden drop in heat stimulates the temperature receptors, prompting the brain to transmit messages throughout the body so the blood vessels undergo 'vasoconstriction,'" the spa said of the Cryotherapy UK treatment. "This produces a quicker blood flow and ramps up endorphin levels, generating a natural high."

But, hey, gotta ask: Is this cryo shit actually safe? Does it even work? According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the answers remain less than definitive. "Given a growing interest from consumers in whole body cryotherapy, the FDA has informally reviewed the medical literature available on this subject," Aron Yustein, an FDA Center for Devices and Radiological health medical officer, said in July 2016. "We found very little evidence about its safety or effectiveness in treating the conditions for which it is being promoted."

So yeah. Just use extreme caution when considering a genitalia deep-freeze. And if getting frozen isn't really your preferred method of boosting sexual pleasure, just invest in some must-have toys instead.