Chris Christie on Eating Meatloaf: Trump Made Me Do It
Chris Christie on Eating Meatloaf: Trump Made Me Do It
Speaking of shit sandwiches , New Jersey Governor Chris Christie revealed Thursday that he once dined on meatloaf because Trump made him do it. Christie recalled the forced meatloaf consumption while guest-hosting a New York sports talk radio show,  reported . Christie, whose testicles were dissed last year by Ted Cruz 's campaign manager, said he went to the White House Tuesday for a Trump lunch. "This is what it's like to be with Trump, okay?" Christie said. "He says, 'There's the menu, you guys order whatever you want.' Then he says, 'Chris, you and I are gonna have the meatloaf.'" According to Christie, Trump didn't force anyone else at the table to consume meatloaf: i found the audio of Chris Christie telling the story of Trump forcing him to eat meatloaf because i needed to hear it from his mouth pic.twitter.com/4IQfkqVV9K Meatloaf scholars, predictably, had some fun with this: One of the few glimmers of light in this dark time is the constant humiliation of Chris Christie: https://t.co/tP72S0Fbew Trump: Try the meatloaf Christie: I would do anything for love, but I won't do that Trump: ... Christie: I'll try the meatloaf Credit where credit’s due, if Trump made Christie eat meatloaf that’s hilariously mean. “C’mon big boy. Have some of that meatloaf, big boy” AP: Trump to use National Guard as deportation force Spicer: #MediaLiesAgain Shep Smith: Lets try a #DayOfFacts Trump: It eats the meatloaf A true friend would order the meatloaf to eat Chris Christie. Christie's recent history with Trump is, to say the least, absolutely loaded with meatloaf-sized ups and downs. Christie, who also ran for president last year before eventually succumbing to a Trump endorsement, was once considered a possible contender for a cabinet position. Sources claimed to  in December that Trump hadn't snubbed Christie, arguing that he had actually turned down multiple offers. The jobs offered, these sources claimed, ranged from Homeland Security secretary to a White House advisory role. And now he's eating meatloaf.

Speaking of shit sandwiches, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie revealed Thursday that he once dined on meatloaf because Trump made him do it. Christie recalled the forced meatloaf consumption while guest-hosting a New York sports talk radio show, CBS News reported.

Christie, whose testicles were dissed last year by Ted Cruz's campaign manager, said he went to the White House Tuesday for a Trump lunch. "This is what it's like to be with Trump, okay?" Christie said. "He says, 'There's the menu, you guys order whatever you want.' Then he says, 'Chris, you and I are gonna have the meatloaf.'" According to Christie, Trump didn't force anyone else at the table to consume meatloaf:

i found the audio of Chris Christie telling the story of Trump forcing him to eat meatloaf because i needed to hear it from his mouth pic.twitter.com/4IQfkqVV9K — Matt Binder (@MattBinder) February 17, 2017

Meatloaf scholars, predictably, had some fun with this:

One of the few glimmers of light in this dark time is the constant humiliation of Chris Christie: https://t.co/tP72S0Fbew — Jeet Heer (@HeerJeet) February 17, 2017

Trump: Try the meatloaf

Christie: I would do anything for love, but I won't do that

Trump: ...

Christie: I'll try the meatloaf — ✿ Ru ❀ (@not_rumeru) February 17, 2017

Credit where credit’s due, if Trump made Christie eat meatloaf that’s hilariously mean. “C’mon big boy. Have some of that meatloaf, big boy” — Patrick Monahan (@pattymo) February 17, 2017

AP: Trump to use National Guard as deportation force

Spicer: #MediaLiesAgain

Shep Smith: Lets try a #DayOfFacts

Trump: It eats the meatloaf — Prez Agent Orange (@przagentorange) February 17, 2017

A true friend would order the meatloaf to eat Chris Christie. — Ronan Farrow (@RonanFarrow) February 17, 2017

Christie's recent history with Trump is, to say the least, absolutely loaded with meatloaf-sized ups and downs. Christie, who also ran for president last year before eventually succumbing to a Trump endorsement, was once considered a possible contender for a cabinet position. Sources claimed to NJ.com in December that Trump hadn't snubbed Christie, arguing that he had actually turned down multiple offers. The jobs offered, these sources claimed, ranged from Homeland Security secretary to a White House advisory role.

And now he's eating meatloaf.