Draymond Green Clarifies Comments on James Dolan's 'Slave-Owner Mentality'
Draymond Green Clarifies Comments on James Dolan's 'Slave-Owner Mentality'
Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green said he was speaking in general terms, and not directly about New York Knicks executive chairman James Dolan, when he made a remark about a "slave-master mentality" Wednesday on his podcast. AJ Neuharth-Keusch of passed along the original comments from the outspoken Warriors All-Star, which came on his show, about the feud between Dolan and former Knicks forward Charles Oakley: No. 1—(Oakley) is a legend. Treat him as such. Why is (Oakley) buying a ticket to a game, first off? ... It wasn't a problem when (Oakley) was speaking out (when he played in the 1990s). It wasn't a problem when he was protecting (the Knicks') superstars then. So if it wasn't a problem then when he was doing it for y'all, why is it all of a sudden a problem now when he speak out on something that he don't like, and now you want to disown him from your entire organization? ... That's a slave mentality. A slave-master mentality. That's ridiculous. He provided additional context during an interview that's scheduled to air Saturday on ESPN Radio's . He explained, "I can't say James Dolan is a racist. I don't know James Dolan. "I never said James Dolan doesn't have a slave-master mentality. I said when you look at something and someone is doing something for someone and all of a sudden they can't anymore, that falls under the slave mentality." Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Ultimate NBA All-Star Game GOAT LeBron James Is About to Take Over New Orleans Why the NBA’s Greatest Dunkers Are Passing on the Slam Dunk Crown From Gucci Mane to LeBron: How the Kiss Cam Is NBA’s Cupid Was Aaron Gordon vs. Zach LaVine the Greatest Dunk Contest Ever? Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant Jaw with Each Other in KD's Return to OKC Russell Westbrook Pushes Kevin Durant Kevin Durant OKC Debut Welcomed with Boos Giannis Antetokounmpo Makes a Space Jam Dunk Draymond Green Steal and Dunk On This Day in the NBA: Allen Iverson Dropped 60 on the Magic in Philadelphia The Underhand Free Throw Could Be Making a Comeback in the NBA Kerr Ejected Devin Booker Scores the Winning Shot Against the Sacramento Kings Yogi Ferrell Hits Game-Winning 3 Versus Trailblazers The Potential Top-2 NBA Draft Picks Are About to Finally Settle It on the Court Dunk Contest Legend Nate Robinson Wants One Last Chance to Ball in the NBA Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Carmelo and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Biggest NBA All-Star Snubs CJ McCollum Making Moves DeAndre Liggins Takes Too Many Steps, LeBron James Mocks Him Kristaps Porzingis Slams in the Face of Dwight Howard Steph Curry Hits a Half-Court Shot Before Halftime Carmelo Anthony Doesn't Want Any Cheers Joel Embiid Blocks James Harden and Finishes the Other Way Kemba Walker Sick Crossover on Derrick Rose The NBA's Biggest Social Media Stars Take the Court at Halftime Howard Beck's Rant on the All-Star Voting Process This Night in the NBA Alternative NBA Facts with Howard Beck Howard Beck Predicts His Western Conference All-Star Reserves Team Howard Beck Predicts His  Eastern Conference All-Star Reserves Team 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Philadelphia 76ers Are on a Roll with #RaiseTheCat Victory Celebration Joakim Noah Makes an Embarrassing Free-Throw Attempt Versus Pacers Dion Waiters Drills the Three to Win the Game Against the Warriors Giannis Antetokounmpo Drains the Three Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz LeBron James Nails a Clutch 3-Pointer to Tie the Game vs. Spurs Eleven Years Ago Today, Kobe Bryant Dropped 81 Points on the Raptors Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Top 5 Question Marks at the Halfway Point Howard Beck and Ric Bucher's 1st-Half Disappointments KD Has His Best Game of the Season vs. Thunder Was the NBA Right or Wrong to Reduce Fan Influence on All-Star Starters? Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Allen Iverson Will Reportedly Coach Former NBA Stars in 3-on-3 Tournament Mr. December: See John Wall Once Again End the Year as NBA's Player of the Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Top 5 Trade Targets in the NBA Jordan Clarkson Fouls Goran Dragic & James Johnson Isn't Having It Draymond Green Alley Oops to Andre Iguodala for the Dunk Carmelo Anthony Drains the 3 for the Lead Against the Bucks Kristaps Porzingis Puts the Moves on the Bucks Top 3 Landing Spots If the Chicago Bulls Move All-Star Jimmy Butler Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns James Harden vs. Russell Westbrook: Who's the Real MVP? Ric Bucher's NBA Power Rankings: New Year Sees a New Team at #1 Bucher Buzz: the Reason the Hawks Are Likely to Trade Paul Millsap and Others Bucher Buzz: League Sources Say Bulls Have Begun Shopping Jimmy Butler Who Will Grab the 8th Seed in the Western Conference? Howard Beck Predicts the NBA All-Star Teams in Each Conference What's Wrong with the New York Knicks? Is Rondo's Relationship with the Bulls Beyond Repair? Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Who Has the Most to Prove in 2017? James Harden Connects with Montrezl Harrell with the Between-the-Legs Dime Jrue Holiday Dunks on Kristaps Porzingis Isaiah Thomas Scores Career High 52 Points Versus the Miami Heat Tommy Heinsohn Goes Nuts After Isaiah Thomas Scores His 50th Point Giannis Antetokounmpo Blocks the Two-Time Slam Dunk Champ Doc and Austin Rivers Receive 1st-Half Ejections Against the Houston Rockets Kristaps Porzingis Down the Lane for a Jam Lopez Does a Double Clothesline KP in No-Man's Land on Defense KP at 4 Leads to Wide-Open Pacers 3 Knicks Beat Downcourt by Pacers Porzingis Plays Good D at Rim vs. Pacers Clutch Under Pressure: MVP Steph Curry Steps Up with the Game on the Line Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the NBA's Best Ball-Handlers Kevin Durant Is an Assassin: the Former MVP Leads the NBA's Best Superteam Tim Duncan Ends His Speech with Some Jokes Coach Gregg Popovich Fights Off the Feelings During His Speech Rest in Peace, Craig Sager: Paying Tribute to a Legendary NBA Sideline Reporter James Harden Is an Assassin: the Beard Makes His Case for NBA MVP Howard Beck's NBA Awards at the Quarter-Mark of the Season DeMarcus Cousins Trade Rumors: Is the All-Star Center 'Damaged Goods'? Is the Phil Jackson/Carmelo Anthony Feud Being Blown Out of Proportion? Los Angeles Lakers legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar was among those to react to Green's comments, saying on ESPN's the forward should "be careful." "Draymond is taking on the top of NBA hierarchy," Abdul-Jabbar said. "I think he should be careful. These people have a lot of resources, and they may not like that." He added: "I don't know Mr. Dolan well enough. I don't know what the situation is. I'm gonna mind my [own] business." Meanwhile, Oakley has remained on the offensive, despite his short-lived ban from Madison Square Garden getting lifted. In an interview with Maggie Gray of on Thursday, he appeared to compare the Knicks owner to former Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling, who was forced to sell the franchise after tapes surfaced where he made racist remarks. doesn't expect a sudden resolution, saying, "No, some things can't be solved." The problems between Dolan and Oakley had been rumbling under the surface for years, and they finally exploded last week. The situation has become a major issue for the organization—which had already been dealing with backlash for its lackluster on-court play—ever since. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Rocky Widner/Getty Images

Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green said he was speaking in general terms, and not directly about New York Knicks executive chairman James Dolan, when he made a remark about a "slave-master mentality" Wednesday on his podcast.

AJ Neuharth-Keusch of USA Today passed along the original comments from the outspoken Warriors All-Star, which came on his Uninterrupted show, about the feud between Dolan and former Knicks forward Charles Oakley:

No. 1—(Oakley) is a legend. Treat him as such. Why is (Oakley) buying a ticket to a game, first off? ... It wasn't a problem when (Oakley) was speaking out (when he played in the 1990s). It wasn't a problem when he was protecting (the Knicks') superstars then. So if it wasn't a problem then when he was doing it for y'all, why is it all of a sudden a problem now when he speak out on something that he don't like, and now you want to disown him from your entire organization? ... That's a slave mentality. A slave-master mentality. That's ridiculous.

He provided additional context during an interview that's scheduled to air Saturday on ESPN Radio's Meet The All-Stars. He explained, "I can't say James Dolan is a racist. I don't know James Dolan.

"I never said James Dolan doesn't have a slave-master mentality. I said when you look at something and someone is doing something for someone and all of a sudden they can't anymore, that falls under the slave mentality."

Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Ultimate NBA All-Star Game GOAT LeBron James Is About to Take Over New Orleans Why the NBA’s Greatest Dunkers Are Passing on the Slam Dunk Crown From Gucci Mane to LeBron: How the Kiss Cam Is NBA’s Cupid Was Aaron Gordon vs. Zach LaVine the Greatest Dunk Contest Ever? Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant Jaw with Each Other in KD's Return to OKC Russell Westbrook Pushes Kevin Durant Kevin Durant OKC Debut Welcomed with Boos Giannis Antetokounmpo Makes a Space Jam Dunk Draymond Green Steal and Dunk On This Day in the NBA: Allen Iverson Dropped 60 on the Magic in Philadelphia The Underhand Free Throw Could Be Making a Comeback in the NBA Kerr Ejected Devin Booker Scores the Winning Shot Against the Sacramento Kings Yogi Ferrell Hits Game-Winning 3 Versus Trailblazers The Potential Top-2 NBA Draft Picks Are About to Finally Settle It on the Court Dunk Contest Legend Nate Robinson Wants One Last Chance to Ball in the NBA Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Carmelo and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Biggest NBA All-Star Snubs CJ McCollum Making Moves DeAndre Liggins Takes Too Many Steps, LeBron James Mocks Him Kristaps Porzingis Slams in the Face of Dwight Howard Steph Curry Hits a Half-Court Shot Before Halftime Carmelo Anthony Doesn't Want Any Cheers Joel Embiid Blocks James Harden and Finishes the Other Way Kemba Walker Sick Crossover on Derrick Rose The NBA's Biggest Social Media Stars Take the Court at Halftime Howard Beck's Rant on the All-Star Voting Process This Night in the NBA Alternative NBA Facts with Howard Beck Howard Beck Predicts His Western Conference All-Star Reserves Team Howard Beck Predicts His Eastern Conference All-Star Reserves Team 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Philadelphia 76ers Are on a Roll with #RaiseTheCat Victory Celebration Joakim Noah Makes an Embarrassing Free-Throw Attempt Versus Pacers Dion Waiters Drills the Three to Win the Game Against the Warriors Giannis Antetokounmpo Drains the Three Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz LeBron James Nails a Clutch 3-Pointer to Tie the Game vs. Spurs Eleven Years Ago Today, Kobe Bryant Dropped 81 Points on the Raptors Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Top 5 Question Marks at the Halfway Point Howard Beck and Ric Bucher's 1st-Half Disappointments KD Has His Best Game of the Season vs. Thunder Was the NBA Right or Wrong to Reduce Fan Influence on All-Star Starters? Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Allen Iverson Will Reportedly Coach Former NBA Stars in 3-on-3 Tournament Mr. December: See John Wall Once Again End the Year as NBA's Player of the Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Top 5 Trade Targets in the NBA Jordan Clarkson Fouls Goran Dragic & James Johnson Isn't Having It Draymond Green Alley Oops to Andre Iguodala for the Dunk Carmelo Anthony Drains the 3 for the Lead Against the Bucks Kristaps Porzingis Puts the Moves on the Bucks Top 3 Landing Spots If the Chicago Bulls Move All-Star Jimmy Butler Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns James Harden vs. Russell Westbrook: Who's the Real MVP? Ric Bucher's NBA Power Rankings: New Year Sees a New Team at #1 Bucher Buzz: the Reason the Hawks Are Likely to Trade Paul Millsap and Others Bucher Buzz: League Sources Say Bulls Have Begun Shopping Jimmy Butler Who Will Grab the 8th Seed in the Western Conference? Howard Beck Predicts the NBA All-Star Teams in Each Conference What's Wrong with the New York Knicks? Is Rondo's Relationship with the Bulls Beyond Repair? Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Who Has the Most to Prove in 2017? James Harden Connects with Montrezl Harrell with the Between-the-Legs Dime Jrue Holiday Dunks on Kristaps Porzingis Isaiah Thomas Scores Career High 52 Points Versus the Miami Heat Tommy Heinsohn Goes Nuts After Isaiah Thomas Scores His 50th Point Giannis Antetokounmpo Blocks the Two-Time Slam Dunk Champ Doc and Austin Rivers Receive 1st-Half Ejections Against the Houston Rockets Kristaps Porzingis Down the Lane for a Jam Lopez Does a Double Clothesline KP in No-Man's Land on Defense KP at 4 Leads to Wide-Open Pacers 3 Knicks Beat Downcourt by Pacers Porzingis Plays Good D at Rim vs. Pacers Clutch Under Pressure: MVP Steph Curry Steps Up with the Game on the Line Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the NBA's Best Ball-Handlers Kevin Durant Is an Assassin: the Former MVP Leads the NBA's Best Superteam Tim Duncan Ends His Speech with Some Jokes Coach Gregg Popovich Fights Off the Feelings During His Speech Rest in Peace, Craig Sager: Paying Tribute to a Legendary NBA Sideline Reporter James Harden Is an Assassin: the Beard Makes His Case for NBA MVP Howard Beck's NBA Awards at the Quarter-Mark of the Season DeMarcus Cousins Trade Rumors: Is the All-Star Center 'Damaged Goods'? Is the Phil Jackson/Carmelo Anthony Feud Being Blown Out of Proportion?

Los Angeles Lakers legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar was among those to react to Green's comments, saying on ESPN's The Jump the forward should "be careful."

"Draymond is taking on the top of NBA hierarchy," Abdul-Jabbar said. "I think he should be careful. These people have a lot of resources, and they may not like that."

He added: "I don't know Mr. Dolan well enough. I don't know what the situation is. I'm gonna mind my [own] business."

Meanwhile, Oakley has remained on the offensive, despite his short-lived ban from Madison Square Garden getting lifted.

In an interview with Maggie Gray of Sports Illustrated on Thursday, he appeared to compare the Knicks owner to former Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling, who was forced to sell the franchise after tapes surfaced where he made racist remarks.

Oakley doesn't expect a sudden resolution, saying, "No, some things can't be solved."

The problems between Dolan and Oakley had been rumbling under the surface for years, and they finally exploded last week. The situation has become a major issue for the organization—which had already been dealing with backlash for its lackluster on-court play—ever since.