87-Year-Old Woman Trolls Trump From The Grave With Her Obituary
87-Year-Old Woman Trolls Trump From The Grave With Her Obituary
Just a little over three weeks into Donald Trump ’s presidency, Elizabeth “Liz” Smith of Norwalk, Ohio, seemed to have had quite enough. On Feb. 13, the 87-year-old died at a hospice center surrounded by family, according to her obituary . And in that same obit, Smith, an active member of St. Mary Catholic Church and Huron County Democratic Party, hilariously let her feelings about our current commander-in-chief be known. “Liz is smiling now, not to be living during the Trump presidency,” it reads. Deborah Lucal, Smith’s daughter, told the Sandusky Register that Smith had noticed a similar sentiment in another obituary and thought it was funny. “She had seen that in somebody else’s obituary and kind of made a note of that,” Lucal said. “She doesn’t like the man, she never has, thought he was a pompous ass.” Wayne Morris, a North Carolina man who died on Oct. 2, never lived to see Trump win the presidency, but made his distaste for the then Republican nominee apparent by requesting his family include the line “Do not vote for Donald Trump” in his obituary. Mary Anne Noland of Richmond, Virginia, on the other hand, wasn’t a fan of Trump or Hillary Clinton and stated that she’d rather die than vote for either one of them in her May 2016 obituary. “Faced with the prospect of voting for either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton, Mary Anne Noland of Richmond chose, instead, to pass into the eternal love of God on Sunday, May 15, 2016, at the age of 68,” the obituary, published in The Richmond Times-Dispatch , said. Here’s hoping that all three are thoroughly enjoying a politics-free afterlife. ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

Just a little over three weeks into Donald Trump’s presidency, Elizabeth “Liz” Smith of Norwalk, Ohio, seemed to have had quite enough.

On Feb. 13, the 87-year-old died at a hospice center surrounded by family, according to her obituary. And in that same obit, Smith, an active member of St. Mary Catholic Church and Huron County Democratic Party, hilariously let her feelings about our current commander-in-chief be known.

“Liz is smiling now, not to be living during the Trump presidency,” it reads.

Deborah Lucal, Smith’s daughter, told the Sandusky Register that Smith had noticed a similar sentiment in another obituary and thought it was funny.

“She had seen that in somebody else’s obituary and kind of made a note of that,” Lucal said. “She doesn’t like the man, she never has, thought he was a pompous ass.”

Wayne Morris, a North Carolina man who died on Oct. 2, never lived to see Trump win the presidency, but made his distaste for the then Republican nominee apparent by requesting his family include the line “Do not vote for Donald Trump” in his obituary.

Mary Anne Noland of Richmond, Virginia, on the other hand, wasn’t a fan of Trump or Hillary Clinton and stated that she’d rather die than vote for either one of them in her May 2016 obituary.

“Faced with the prospect of voting for either Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton, Mary Anne Noland of Richmond chose, instead, to pass into the eternal love of God on Sunday, May 15, 2016, at the age of 68,” the obituary, published in The Richmond Times-Dispatch, said.