Soldiers given taxpayer-funded guide to strip clubs of Tallinn
Soldiers given taxpayer-funded guide to strip clubs of Tallinn
ritish soldiers posted to Estonia were given a taxpayer-funded guide to the country’s best strip clubs, the Ministry of Defence has confirmed. Troops who travelled to Tallinn, the capital of the Baltic nation , were given a booklet advising them which establishments offered the “prettiest dancers”, as well as advice about how much to tip girls and whether private dances were available. The information sheet, entitled "Tallinn guide for friendly forces” was distributed to soldiers taking part in a 2015 Nato exercise, known as Operation Steadfast Javelin. he booklet, disclosed to the BBC under Freedom of Information laws, includes a section detailing three of Tallinn’s major strip clubs . X Club, which bills itself as a place “where the most sexy and hot girls will each night surprise you with most crazy erotic shows you have ever seen”, was described in the Army guide as "the most professional strip club”. The pamphlet noted that the club offered “various elements” in addition to strippers, although it did not give further information. X Club’s website notes that customers searching for “spicy excitement” can visit a medieval torture cellar, which promises to “enrich your life with unforgettable memories”. Another Tallinn club, Soho, was described by the MOD guide as the "biggest strip club in Estonia". The establishment, which claims former heavyweight boxer Lennox Lewis as a previous visitor, describes itself as offering up to ten girls each night, who “demonstrate their skills and fascinating bodies”. he final club, Lasso Baar was described by the guide as a "big strip bar with one of the prettiest dancers". The booklet also offered advice about strip club etiquette in the Baltic state. Soldiers were told that they should “use cash in such places”, and that “the average level of rolling tips to girls is five to 20 euros". The guide said: "All strip clubs offer private rooms for individual dances.” A Ministry of Defence spokesman would not provide any information about who produced the guide, or whether it was still in use. The spokesman said: "As you would expect, we routinely provide guidance to our people about staying safe while on deployment." The booklet also included information about Tallinn nightlife outside of the strip club circuit, recommending pubs such as Mad Murphy's and Hell Hunt. rinking on the streets is forbidden in the Estonian capital, and the guide said that in order to avoid being fined by police, “when you want to drink spirits in the street it is wise to cover the bottles". The booklet was not limited to purely hedonistic activities, however, and also included tips for visiting the sights of the city’s historic Old Town. Bonbon Lingerie, an underwear shop, was recommended as a suitable place at which to buy a present for wives and girlfriends left behind in Britain, while Vana Tallinn, a rum-based liqueur was also cited as a potential gift. The guide says: “Finns just love it and some of them use it as a sleeping pill." Sir Gerald Howarth, the Conservative MP for Aldershot, often described as the home of the Army, said that the guide was an appropriate use of public funds. He said: “It’s all about the welfare of our soldiers, many of whom are very young. It is hugely important - helping them to avoid inappropriate behaviour must be a good thing.”

British soldiers posted to Estonia were given a taxpayer-funded guide to the country’s best strip clubs, the Ministry of Defence has confirmed.

Troops who travelled to Tallinn, the capital of the Baltic nation, were given a booklet advising them which establishments offered the “prettiest dancers”, as well as advice about how much to tip girls and whether private dances were available.

The information sheet, entitled "Tallinn guide for friendly forces” was distributed to soldiers taking part in a 2015 Nato exercise, known as Operation Steadfast Javelin.