Morehouse College to Honor Warner/Chappell CEO Jon Platt, Usher, Tyler Perry
Morehouse College to Honor Warner/Chappell CEO Jon Platt, Usher, Tyler Perry
Morehouse College to Honor Warner/Chappell CEO Jon Platt, Usher, Tyler Perry  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Morehouse College is set to honor music publishing leader this weekend with the prestigious Candle Award in Music, Business and Entertainment. The Warner/Chappell Music chairman and CEO will join fellow 2017 Candle recipients Usher and Tyler Perry at the Atlanta college for a series of events on Saturday, including a panel discussion and, later, the 29th annual 'A Candle in the Dark' gala. The Candle Award recognizes non-alumni for their leadership and service to society in the fields of art, business and philanthropy. Previous recipients have included Ray Charles , Quincy Jones , Berry Gordy, Smokey Robinson , Denzel Washington, Sidney Poitier, Oprah Winfrey, August Wilson, and Louis Gossett, Jr. "There is no one more deserving of this award than Jon, who inspires his songwriters, his team, and his colleagues in the industry and beyond with his extraordinary wisdom, mentorship, creativity and passion," said Warner Music Group CEO in a staff memo. "We're so proud to have Jon in our WMG family, and thrilled to see him join such illustrious company with thisÂ outstandingÂ  honor."  Platt took over Warner/Chappell's day-to-day operation in late 2015, adding "chairman" to his title last May. He recently landed at No. 28 on the Billboard Power 100 list.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Morehouse College is set to honor music publishing leader Jon Platt this weekend with the prestigious Candle Award in Music, Business and Entertainment. The Warner/Chappell Music chairman and CEO will join fellow 2017 Candle recipients Usher and Tyler Perry at the Atlanta college for a series of events on Saturday, including a panel discussion and, later, the 29th annual 'A Candle in the Dark' gala.

The Candle Award recognizes non-alumni for their leadership and service to society in the fields of art, business and philanthropy. Previous recipients have included Ray Charles, Quincy Jones, Berry Gordy, Smokey Robinson, Denzel Washington, Sidney Poitier, Oprah Winfrey, August Wilson, and Louis Gossett, Jr.

"There is no one more deserving of this award than Jon, who inspires his songwriters, his team, and his colleagues in the industry and beyond with his extraordinary wisdom, mentorship, creativity and passion," said Warner Music Group CEO Stephen Cooper in a staff memo. "We're so proud to have Jon in our WMG family, and thrilled to see him join such illustrious company with thisÂ outstandingÂ honor."

Platt took over Warner/Chappell's day-to-day operation in late 2015, adding "chairman" to his title last May. He recently landed at No. 28 on the Billboard Power 100 list.