Hundreds of hay bales delivered to fire-affected farmers from across Australia



Hundreds of hay bales delivered to fire-affected farmers from across Australia

Updated

One week after devastating fires ripped through central western NSW, farmers are being given a helping hand with fodder being delivered from across Australia.

More than 50 trucks carrying hundreds of bails of donated hay to the fire-affected Warrumbungle region lined the streets of Dunedoo on Saturday afternoon.

The Sir Ivan Fire has so far burned about 55,000 hectares of land, destroyed more than 30 homes and killed thousands of livestock.

More than 3,000 bails of hay were expected to be delivered to the district during the coming days.

Trucks had travelled from as far as Emerald in Queensland.

One of the organizers, Andrew Glover from Cootamundra, said delivering fodder was the least he could do.

"We couldn't be seen to be sitting at home on our hands not helping," said Mr Glover.

Co-organiser Paul Manwaring said the hay drive was initially meant to involve only a couple of trucks.

"We were down south, a long way away, too far away to help fight the fires. So we thought the best thing we could do is try and organise a couple of trucks to bring some hay up," he said.

More than 50 trucks had brought hay to the region by Saturday.

"Those couple of trucks, through enormous generosity from everyone, has turned into a massive event," said Mr Manwaring.

Affected family overwhelmed by support

The fodder donations would make a big difference for the Wentworth-Brown family whose whole property was burnt out.

"In a nutshell, [we lost] everything. Other than the important things, the kids," said Chris Wentworth-Brown.

The Wentworth-Brown family said they had received incredible support from their local community and the wider farming sector, including the hay drive.

"It is very overwhelming, look at these trucks rolling down here," said Mr Wentworth-Brown.

The family had temporarily moved in with friends who also live near Dunedoo.

They were expecting about 100 bails of hay to be donated to their property, where many fire-affected people had off-loaded their stock.

"We have just opened our arms to let people in and bring their animals," said Lisa Clisby.

"So far we have got 15 dogs and 14 horses there at the moment as well as, we have got sheep and cattle ourselves, so we have a bit of mixture."

Ms Clisby said she was amazed by how far people had travelled from to bring fodder.

"I just can't believe it, it has been so overwhelming."

Riverina truck driver humbled by grateful community

Ron Wilson would have travelled almost 1,000 kilometres by the time he got back to his home in the New South Wales Riverina region.

He had travelled from Ladysmith near Wagga Wagga to bring hay donated from people in the area.

He said it was imperative the rural sector supported the fire-affected farmers during this time.

"I thought I would help these poor buggers out because some of them have been burnt right out and most of the money I earn, it all comes off the land," said Mr Wilson.

He said the number of people who showed gratitude surprised some of the drivers on the hay drive.

"It was surprising, the amount of cars that passed us and had their thumbs up to say thank you. That sort of gets to you, and you think then they appreciate you, which I know they do."

Topics: bushfire, community-and-society, rural, livestock, dunedoo-2844, cassilis-2329, nsw

First posted