Woman shot dead; great-grandson, 13, among 3 teens charged
Woman shot dead; great-grandson, 13, among 3 teens charged
The trailer home in Mobile County Ala. where Mary Faulk was found shot dead                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Sheriff’s officials say three teenagers are charged with murder in the gunshot killing of a southern Alabama woman, including her 13-year-old great-grandson. Erick James Toomer, 19, was arrested by the Mobile County Sheriff’s Office on Thursday night. Authorities say the youths are being held in the death of 69-year-old Mary Faulk. She was shot to death Thursday in Mobile County. The woman was found dead by her 11-year-old great-grandaughter, reports CBS affiliate WKRG.  Sheriff’s officials say the three were arrested after authorities found the victim’s car in Grand Bay. Besides the 13-year-old, the other suspects are a 15-year-old and 19 year-old Eric Toomer. Sources tell WKRG the great-grandson is alleged to have to have pulled the trigger. The names of the juveniles haven’t been released. Authorities say the 13-year-old was discovered driving his great-grandmother’s car after the killing.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

MOBILE, Ala. -- Sheriff’s officials say three teenagers are charged with murder in the gunshot killing of a southern Alabama woman, including her 13-year-old great-grandson.

Mobile County Sheriff’s Office

Authorities say the youths are being held in the death of 69-year-old Mary Faulk. She was shot to death Thursday in Mobile County.

The woman was found dead by her 11-year-old great-grandaughter, reports CBS affiliate WKRG.

Sheriff’s officials say the three were arrested after authorities found the victim’s car in Grand Bay. Besides the 13-year-old, the other suspects are a 15-year-old and 19 year-old Eric Toomer. Sources tell WKRG the great-grandson is alleged to have to have pulled the trigger.

The names of the juveniles haven’t been released.

Authorities say the 13-year-old was discovered driving his great-grandmother’s car after the killing.