Watch These Politicians Morph Into Their 'SNL' Characters
Watch These Politicians Morph Into Their 'SNL' Characters
These days, it’s not clear if “ Saturday Night Live ” is art imitating life, or life imitating art. Whatever, one thing’s for sure: The show is getting way too good at political impressions. For proof, watch past and present American politicians as they literally morph into their “SNL” characters in graphics created by CompanyReviews.com below. From Tina Fey’s uncanny Sarah Palin , Melissa McCarthy’s spot-on Sean Spicer , and Kate McKinnon as literally  anyone , we can understand how international newspapers can confuse real-life politicians with their “SNL” actors. It’s almost like they’re the same people. Below, watch the lines blur between the White House and Studio 8H . Press Secretary Sean Spicer To Melissa McCarthy President Donald Trump To Alec Baldwin Presidential Counselor Kellyanne Conway To Kate McKinnon Attorney General Jeff Sessions To Kate McKinnon Democratic Nominee Hillary Clinton To Kate McKinnon Tina Fey To Vice Presidential Candidate Sarah Palin President Barack Obama To Jay Pharoah GOP Nominee Mitt Romney To Jason Sudeikis Vice President Al Gore To Darrell Hammond President Bill Clinton To Darrell Hammond Vice President Dick Cheney To Darrel Hammond President George W. Bush To Will Ferrell ALSO ON HUFFPOST Mass Mooning at Trump Tower Chicago       Share this slide:       MORE:

These days, it’s not clear if “Saturday Night Live” is art imitating life, or life imitating art. Whatever, one thing’s for sure: The show is getting way too good at political impressions.

For proof, watch past and present American politicians as they literally morph into their “SNL” characters in graphics created by CompanyReviews.com below.

It’s almost like they’re the same people.

Below, watch the lines blur between the White House and Studio 8H.

Press Secretary Sean Spicer To Melissa McCarthy

President Donald Trump To Alec Baldwin

Presidential Counselor Kellyanne Conway To Kate McKinnon

Attorney General Jeff Sessions To Kate McKinnon

Democratic Nominee Hillary Clinton To Kate McKinnon

Tina Fey To Vice Presidential Candidate Sarah Palin

President Barack Obama To Jay Pharoah

GOP Nominee Mitt Romney To Jason Sudeikis

Vice President Al Gore To Darrell Hammond

President Bill Clinton To Darrell Hammond

Vice President Dick Cheney To Darrel Hammond