Meet 'Cyanide Mallika' India's First Woman Serial Killer And Now Neighbour Of Sasikala In Bengaluru Jail
Meet 'Cyanide Mallika' India's First Woman Serial Killer And Now Neighbour Of Sasikala In Jail
Meet 'Cyanide Mallika' India's First Woman Serial Killer And Now Neighbour Of Sasikala In Bengaluru Jail Saying that the past couple of weeks have been tough for Sasikala will be an understatement. From just one step away from being the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, she saw a virtual coup within the party, then she was sentenced to four years imprisonment in disproportionate assets case . After surrendering at the Parapan Agrahara jail in Karnataka , one by one all her requests from Jayalalithaa's former cell room, to home-cooked food and hot water were turned down. The prisoner number 9,234 had sought A-class facilities in jail which would include a special room for prayers and yoga and an attached toilet-cum-bathroom. She has been denied that and has been allotted only a plate, a tumbler and a blanket for personal use. To make matters worse, Sasikala, the once most powerful person in Tamil Nadu is sharing the wall with a notorious killer. Next to Sasikala's cell is ' Cyanide Mallika ', a woman convicted in six murder cases. All her victims were women who she met at temples and had poisoned them for their gold. The 46-year-old Cyanide Mallika who's real name is KD Kempamma is known as the first lady serial killer of India. Started with small thefts at homes where she worked as a maid, Kempamma committed her first murder in 1999. Since then she killed five more women, most of them 'in distress' and fell for her con job of offering to pray for them.

Saying that the past couple of weeks have been tough for Sasikala will be an understatement.

BCCL

From just one step away from being the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, she saw a virtual coup within the party, then she was sentenced to four years imprisonment in disproportionate assets case.

After surrendering at the Parapan Agrahara jail in Karnataka, one by one all her requests from Jayalalithaa's former cell room, to home-cooked food and hot water were turned down.

The prisoner number 9,234 had sought A-class facilities in jail which would include a special room for prayers and yoga and an attached toilet-cum-bathroom. She has been denied that and has been allotted only a plate, a tumbler and a blanket for personal use.

BCCL

To make matters worse, Sasikala, the once most powerful person in Tamil Nadu is sharing the wall with a notorious killer.

Next to Sasikala's cell is 'Cyanide Mallika', a woman convicted in six murder cases. All her victims were women who she met at temples and had poisoned them for their gold.

PTI/File

The 46-year-old Cyanide Mallika who's real name is KD Kempamma is known as the first lady serial killer of India.

Started with small thefts at homes where she worked as a maid, Kempamma committed her first murder in 1999. Since then she killed five more women, most of them 'in distress' and fell for her con job of offering to pray for them.

Screengrab

Don't Miss 97.3 K SHARES 38.1 K SHARES 28.7 K SHARES 28.5 K SHARES 37.1 K SHARES

She was arrested in 2006 and was awarded the death penalty in 2010. But it was commuted to life imprisonment in 2012, which she is currently serving at the Parappana Agrahara jail.

All is not that bad for Sasikala, apparently, Mallika is a fan of her mentor Jayalalithaa and wanted to meet her when the latter was a prisoner there in 2014.

According to reports, Malika has repeatedly tried to talk to Sasikala, but she did not respond on her first day in prison, but on Thursday, smiled at the other inmate.