Photos: Sonam Kapoor Nailing The Fashion Game In Her Austria Vacay
Photos: Sonam Kapoor Nailing Her Fashion Game In Her Austria Vacay
Photos: Sonam Kapoor Nailing The Fashion Game In Her Austria Vacay If you are missing the winter chill this time in India, you should totally look at what Bollywood actress Sonam Kapoor is upto. If you love life, then life will love you back! #everydayphenomenal #rainbowsandbutterflies A post shared by sonamkapoor (@sonamkapoor) on Feb 16, 2017 at 8:49am PST   The fashion queen took some time off from her work and went on a holiday with her sister Rhea Kapoor in Austria. Sonam took to Instagram to share some fun vacay snaps making her fans absolutely jealous. "Contrary to what the cynics say, distance is not for the fearful; it's for the bold. It's for those who are willing to spend a lot of time alone in exchange for a little time with the one they love." Meghan Daum #everydayphenomenal #alwayseveryday A post shared by sonamkapoor (@sonamkapoor) on Feb 16, 2017 at 9:08am PST   THE ROAD NOT TAKEN - Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, And sorry I could not travel both And be one traveler, long I stood And looked down one as far as I could To where it bent in the undergrowth; Then took the other, as just as fair, And having perhaps the better claim, Because it was grassy and wanted wear; Though as for that the passing there Had worn them really about the same, And both that morning equally lay In leaves no step had trodden black. Oh, I kept the first for another day! Yet knowing how way leads on to way, I doubted if I should ever come back. I shall be telling this with a sigh Somewhere ages and ages hence: Two roads diverged in a wood, and I— I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference. .... ROBERT FROST A post shared by sonamkapoor (@sonamkapoor) on Feb 16, 2017 at 6:22am PST   Sonam posted her solo photos from the trip looking absolutely stylish in a beanie, bomber jacket and jeggings posing in front of snow clad hills. On the work front, Sonam will next seen with Kareena Kapoor in her sister Rhea’s next big project, Veere Di Wedding.

If you are missing the winter chill this time in India, you should totally look at what Bollywood actress Sonam Kapoor is upto.

If you love life, then life will love you back! #everydayphenomenal #rainbowsandbutterflies A post shared by sonamkapoor (@sonamkapoor) on Feb 16, 2017 at 8:49am PST

The fashion queen took some time off from her work and went on a holiday with her sister Rhea Kapoor in Austria.

Sonam took to Instagram to share some fun vacay snaps making her fans absolutely jealous.

"Contrary to what the cynics say, distance is not for the fearful; it's for the bold. It's for those who are willing to spend a lot of time alone in exchange for a little time with the one they love." Meghan Daum #everydayphenomenal #alwayseveryday A post shared by sonamkapoor (@sonamkapoor) on Feb 16, 2017 at 9:08am PST

Sonam posted her solo photos from the trip looking absolutely stylish in a beanie, bomber jacket and jeggings posing in front of snow clad hills.

On the work front, Sonam will next seen with Kareena Kapoor in her sister Rhea’s next big project, Veere Di Wedding.