NSW weather: Three women hit by lightning as storms and hail hit Sydney and Wollongong



NSW weather: Three women hit by lightning as storms and hail hit Sydney and Wollongong

Updated

Three women have been hit by lightning in the New South Wales southern highlands as severe storms hit the state for a second day, with parts of Sydney and Wollongong hammered by large hailstones.

The women, aged in their 60s, were struck at Bowral and have been taken to hospital for treatment. One is believed to have suffered serious burns.

Severe weather warnings are in place for regions around Sydney, the Central Coast and Wollongong, along with the Blue Mountains, Cessnock, and Wollindilly areas.

Around Sydney, the State Emergency Service (SES) is responding to calls for help after reports of damage from hail and fallen trees at Rouse Hill, Castle Hill and Richmond.

Greg Murphy from the Illawarra SES said there had been about 30 calls for assistance in the Wingecarribee area, and around Shellharbour and Wollongong.

"A lot of leaking roofs, gutters overflowing and a bit of water into houses, but luckily the wind hasn't been too severe so we haven't had too many tree jobs just yet," he said.

People took to social media to share photos of large hail, which one person described as the "biggest hail I've ever seen".

The thunderstorms came a day after wild weather left thousands of homes in Sydney's north and on the New South Wales Central Coast facing days without power.

The BOM's duty forecaster Steph Spackman said Saturday's storms were moving quickly.

"These thunderstorms are moving across the Sydney basin at a pretty good cracking pace of about 60 kilometres an hour and we do have a cell-based warning just to the east of Penrith," she said.

"We also have a very dangerous storm near Bowral with the possibility of destructive winds."

Ms Spackman said the storm over the Illawarra was very large and dangerous.

"Everybody out there please be careful and take the proper precautions," she said.

"We still have more instability over the Blue Mountains so once this passes over there is a possibility of more storms later this afternoon and evening."

Residents are being advised to clean gutters, remove outside furniture, place cars under cover and shelter inside with any pets when the storms hit.

After yesterday's storm, the SES received 625 calls for assistance with fallen trees, branches and powerlines coming down on roads and houses mostly across Sydney, the Central Coast and the Hunter.

Hail, heavy rain and gusts of wind up to 109 kilometres per hour battered the region, leaving more than 40,000 homes in eastern New South Wales without power earlier this morning.

About 10,000 homes are still cut off — mostly in Sydney's northern beaches and on the Central Coast.

Ausgrid spokeswoman Phillipa Wheeler said some areas would not have power restored until tomorrow.

"This is a major storm event for our network area and the damage is extensive — they're restoring the major power lines first," she said.

Topics: weather, storm-event, penrith-2750, campbelltown-2560, bowral-2576, nsw, australia, shellharbour-2529, wollongong-2500

First posted