James Earl Jones and Donald Glover to star in live-action Lion King remake
James Earl Jones and Donald Glover to star in live-action Lion King remake
ames Earl Jones is to reprise his role as Mufasa in the forthcoming remake of The Lion King. Jones previously voiced the father character in the original 1994 Disney cartoon. His return to the role was revealed on Twitter by director Jon Favreau, who also announced that Donald Glover will be taking on the role of Simba. It's a second major Disney project for Glover, who will be taking on the role of Lando Calrissian (originally played by Billy Dee Williams) in a forthcoming Star Wars film about Han Solo's early years. I just can’t wait to be king. #Simba  pic.twitter.com/wUYKixMBJI Looking forward to working with this legend. #Mufasa  pic.twitter.com/1LszbWrcYT avreau previously directed last year's live action version of The Jungle Book, a critical and commercial success which was described by Telegraph critic Robbie Collin as "a sincere and full-hearted adaptation." The film made made £742.7 million worldwide. The Lion King was a smash hit in 1994 and made £745 million at the box office before being adapted into a popular stage musical , is to be given a live action reboot directed Jon Favreau (Iron Man). News of the remake was confirmed last September by Walt Disney Studios, who released a statement saying: "We can officially confirm that The Walt Disney Studios and director Jon Favreau are putting a new reimagining of The Lion King on the fast-track to production. "The Lion King builds on Disney's success of reimagining its classics for a contemporary audience with films like Maleficent, Cinderella and The Jungle Book." The film will include the beloved songs from the original, which were written by Elton John, Tim Rice and Hans Zimmer, including the Oscar-winning Can You Feel the Love Tonight.

James Earl Jones is to reprise his role as Mufasa in the forthcoming remake of The Lion King.

Jones previously voiced the father character in the original 1994 Disney cartoon. His return to the role was revealed on Twitter by director Jon Favreau, who also announced that Donald Glover will be taking on the role of Simba.

It's a second major Disney project for Glover, who will be taking on the role of Lando Calrissian (originally played by Billy Dee Williams) in a forthcoming Star Wars film about Han Solo's early years.