Former Newsnight presenter Jeremy Paxman splits from his partner of 35 years
Former Newsnight presenter Jeremy Paxman splits from his partner of 35 years
ormer Newsnight presenter Jeremy Paxman has split from his partner and the mother of his three grown-up children after 35 years together. The 66-year-old hard-hitting interviewer separated from Elizabeth Clough, 64, last year, his agent has said. The couple, who may have hoped to spend more time together when he stepped down as Newsnight host after a quarter of a century, are said to retain a “mutual respect” for each other. According to the Daily Mail, friends say he his being comforted by a younger woman in her 30s at his pied-a-terre in Kensington, London, and that she works in publishing. His agent confirmed the split to the Telegraph. She said: “Jeremy Paxman and his partner separated last year. They retain a mutual respect for each other and a deep love for their children.” he couple, whose family home is in Oxfordshire, have a 26-year-old daughter together, Jessica, and twins Jack and Victoria, 19. Cambridge-educated Paxman, who continues to front University Challenge, quit Newsnight in 2014 - the show where he met Elizabeth. He went on to become one of the BBC’s highest-paid presenters, signing a four-year deal with the broadcaster in 2010, said to be worth around £3.2 million. In 2011, the Telegraph revealed how Elizabeth gave up her BBC job as a producer on the corporation’s faith and ethics programme The Big Questions, when it moved to Glasgow so she could be closer to her partner . At the time, Steve Anderson, creative director of Mentorn which produces The Big Questions, said: “When the programme was relocated by the BBC to Scotland she spent some time bedding it in, but she couldn't relocate." In her youth, she made history in 1968 as one of 25 girls to end the all-male tradition of the English public school when she joined Marlborough College - later attended by the Duchess of Cambridge and Samantha Cameron. From there she read history at Somerville College in Oxford.

Former Newsnight presenter Jeremy Paxman has split from his partner and the mother of his three grown-up children after 35 years together.

The 66-year-old hard-hitting interviewer separated from Elizabeth Clough, 64, last year, his agent has said.

The couple, who may have hoped to spend more time together when he stepped down as Newsnight host after a quarter of a century, are said to retain a “mutual respect” for each other.

According to the Daily Mail, friends say he his being comforted by a younger woman in her 30s at his pied-a-terre in Kensington, London, and that she works in publishing.

His agent confirmed the split to the Telegraph. She said: “Jeremy Paxman and his partner separated last year. They retain a mutual respect for each other and a deep love for their children.”