This 16th Century Mexican Church Rises From The Dead, All Thanks To A Severe Drought
This 16th Century Mexican Church Rises From The Dead, All Thanks To A Severe Drought
This 16th Century Mexican Church Rises From The Dead, All Thanks To A Severe Drought A 16th century mission church has resurfaced from the depths of a Mexican reservoir for the fourth time. The Dominican church which was built by monks and nuns to spread Christianity in the area in the 1500s. The church submerged in 1962 during the construction of the Benito Juarez dam. Although the church keeps reappearing every year during March, this time the situation in particularly alarming. This year, the dams visibility has dropped to a mere 16 percent of its 947 cubic hectometer capacity, exposing the church completely. The drought in Mexico has lowered the water levels in Oaxaca by 82 feet, exposing an 18th-century church! https://t.co/vc0n2WjvEv  pic.twitter.com/exZqhqbyfR The drought cripples local residents and also lowers agricultural production. According to a Telegraph report, the water from the dam benefits close to 247 municipalities. But, despite being submerged under water for decades, the interiors of the church are still intact and is a sight to behold. Check out this stunning drone footage of the magnificent church:

A 16th century mission church has resurfaced from the depths of a Mexican reservoir for the fourth time. The Dominican church which was built by monks and nuns to spread Christianity in the area in the 1500s.

Twitter

The church submerged in 1962 during the construction of the Benito Juarez dam. Although the church keeps reappearing every year during March, this time the situation in particularly alarming. This year, the dams visibility has dropped to a mere 16 percent of its 947 cubic hectometer capacity, exposing the church completely.

The drought in Mexico has lowered the water levels in Oaxaca by 82 feet, exposing an 18th-century church! https://t.co/vc0n2WjvEv pic.twitter.com/exZqhqbyfR — Marshall Moss (@MarshallMoss) February 15, 2017

The drought cripples local residents and also lowers agricultural production. According to a Telegraph report, the water from the dam benefits close to 247 municipalities.

But, despite being submerged under water for decades, the interiors of the church are still intact and is a sight to behold.

Check out this stunning drone footage of the magnificent church: