Indiana Pacers willing to trade first-round pick to help Paul George
Sources: Pacers aggressive in finding George help
Sources: Pacers aggressive in finding George help Westbrook prefers talking fashion over Durant NBA: Correct call on Smart's foul vs. Bulls Jamal Murray is a shooting star, and all the World loves it Ten things I like and don't like, including James Harden's TD passes Draymond Green has a leg up on Defensive Player of Year award Anthony Davis has come a long way as New Orleans' main attraction Kevin Durant: Super excited to help basketball grow, see Taj Mahal 'Warriors + 1' mystery grows for All-Star Game Oakley to be player/coach in Ice Cube's league How Jimmy Butler's rise might force Chicago's hand Kings owner wants team to play games in India Celtics say ref handed Bulls win: 'Horrible call' Celtics guard Marcus Smart: 'I got punished for playing good D' The insanity of NBA All-Star voting Paul George tells Sage Steele that he's happy in Indiana and would like to bring a trophy home to the fans. (0:55) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment NEW ORLEANS -- In an attempt to secure help for All-Star forward Paul George , the Indiana Pacers have made their 2017 first-round pick available in a trade, league sources said. In what is considered to be a deep draft, the Pacers are hoping that such an asset would translate to the addition of either an established wing or an established frontline player, according to sources. There is hesitancy within the organization to relinquish the precious pick, but the Pacers (29-28) have lost six in a row (only the nine-win Nets currently have a longer losing streak, at 14 games). The Pacers are also only two games from dropping into the eighth and final playoff spot in the East. George can opt out of his contract at the end of the 2017-18 season. The Pacers have a small window to provide him with a championship-type supporting cast. Whether he signs an extension this summer probably will be predicated on the moves the franchise can execute up to that point. George is fixated on bringing a title to Indiana. On numerous occasions, including Friday, he has voiced his desire to be a revered Pacers figure. "I wanted to be the first and want to be the first to be able to bring a championship to Indiana," George told ESPN Radio on Friday morning. "So that's still on my mind ... and something I definitely want to achieve in Indiana." The Pacers were supposed to take the next step up and challenge the Cleveland Cavaliers after acquiring point guard Jeff Teague and power forward Thaddeus Young via separate trades last offseason, but that hasn't been the case. Teague started the season slowly but has found a balance. Young has sat out the past eight games with a wrist injury, although he's expected to return to the lineup after the All-Star break. The NBA trade deadline is Thursday. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Paul George tells Sage Steele that he's happy in Indiana and would like to bring a trophy home to the fans. (0:55)

NEW ORLEANS -- In an attempt to secure help for All-Star forward Paul George, the Indiana Pacers have made their 2017 first-round pick available in a trade, league sources said.

In what is considered to be a deep draft, the Pacers are hoping that such an asset would translate to the addition of either an established wing or an established frontline player, according to sources.

There is hesitancy within the organization to relinquish the precious pick, but the Pacers (29-28) have lost six in a row (only the nine-win Nets currently have a longer losing streak, at 14 games). The Pacers are also only two games from dropping into the eighth and final playoff spot in the East.

Editor's Picks Pacers' George won't commit to signing new deal Asked about a contract extension that the Pacers are poised to offer him in July, Paul George told ESPN Radio, "I always want to be part of a team that has a chance to win it [all]."

Trade talk: Best deals for Cavs, Bulls, Bucks, Pacers, Pistons What should the Cavs do to satisfy LeBron? Is it time for Chicago to trade Jimmy Butler? Our Insiders answer 10 big questions on the Central's five teams. 1 Related

George can opt out of his contract at the end of the 2017-18 season. The Pacers have a small window to provide him with a championship-type supporting cast.

Whether he signs an extension this summer probably will be predicated on the moves the franchise can execute up to that point.

George is fixated on bringing a title to Indiana. On numerous occasions, including Friday, he has voiced his desire to be a revered Pacers figure.

"I wanted to be the first and want to be the first to be able to bring a championship to Indiana," George told ESPN Radio on Friday morning. "So that's still on my mind ... and something I definitely want to achieve in Indiana."

The Pacers were supposed to take the next step up and challenge the Cleveland Cavaliers after acquiring point guard Jeff Teague and power forward Thaddeus Young via separate trades last offseason, but that hasn't been the case.

Teague started the season slowly but has found a balance. Young has sat out the past eight games with a wrist injury, although he's expected to return to the lineup after the All-Star break.

The NBA trade deadline is Thursday.