Kyrie Irving of Cleveland Cavaliers believes Earth is flat
'Earth is flat': Cavs' Irving holds firm to belief
'Earth is flat': Cavs' Irving holds firm to belief Sources: Pistons, Magic talk Reggie Jackson deal Massimino, Webber, Lobo among HOF finalists World dumps U.S. in Rising Stars Challenge Cuban on '46' jersey: 'It was to tweak everyone' Sources: Pacers aggressive in finding George help Jamal Murray is a shooting star, and all the World loves it Ten things I like and don't like, including James Harden's TD passes Draymond Green has a leg up on Defensive Player of Year award Anthony Davis has come a long way as New Orleans' main attraction Kevin Durant: Super excited to help basketball grow, see Taj Mahal 'Warriors + 1' mystery grows for All-Star Game Oakley to be player/coach in Ice Cube's league How Jimmy Butler's rise might force Chicago's hand Kings owner wants team to play games in India Celtics say ref handed Bulls win: 'Horrible call' Celtics guard Marcus Smart: 'I got punished for playing good D' The insanity of NBA All-Star voting ESPN's Arash Markazi asks Cavaliers All-Star Kyrie Irving about his belief that the Earth is flat. (0:34) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Some people just have different views of the world. Count Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star guard Kyrie Irving among those people. Irving believes the Earth is flat. As in, there's no curvature of the planet. Flat. Like an actual map. "This is not even a conspiracy theory," Irving said during a "Road Trippin' with RJ & Channing" podcast, with teammates Richard Jefferson and Channing Frye . "The Earth is flat. The Earth is flat. "It's right in front of our faces. I'm telling you, it's right in front of our faces. They lie to us." The three were discussing conspiracy theories -- on an airplane -- when Irving brought up the subject to Jefferson and Frye. Irving told ESPN's Arash Markazi on Friday that he holds true to his belief. "I think people should do their own research, man," Irving told ESPN. "Hopefully they'll either back my belief or they'll throw it in the water. But I think it's interesting for people to find out on their own. "I've seen a lot of things that my educational system has said that was real that turned out to be completely fake. I don't mind going against the grain in terms of my thoughts." Among Irving's other conspiracy theories, he says the lunar landing was fake and that there possibly has been contact with alien life forms. "The fact that they can make all these movies with alien descriptions, they're not just going on strictly brainpower and this is just creative things that we're going to put out to everybody," he told Jefferson and Frye. "For what? All to put an alien movie out, for what?" Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

ESPN's Arash Markazi asks Cavaliers All-Star Kyrie Irving about his belief that the Earth is flat. (0:34)

Some people just have different views of the world. Count Cleveland Cavaliers All-Star guard Kyrie Irving among those people.

Irving believes the Earth is flat. As in, there's no curvature of the planet. Flat. Like an actual map.

"This is not even a conspiracy theory," Irving said during a "Road Trippin' with RJ & Channing" podcast, with teammates Richard Jefferson and Channing Frye. "The Earth is flat. The Earth is flat.

"It's right in front of our faces. I'm telling you, it's right in front of our faces. They lie to us."

The three were discussing conspiracy theories -- on an airplane -- when Irving brought up the subject to Jefferson and Frye.

Editor's Picks Pepsi producing Uncle Drew film starring Irving Cleveland Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving and soft drink company Pepsi are collaborating on a film to turn Irving's Uncle Drew character into a full-length film.

Irving told ESPN's Arash Markazi on Friday that he holds true to his belief.

"I think people should do their own research, man," Irving told ESPN. "Hopefully they'll either back my belief or they'll throw it in the water. But I think it's interesting for people to find out on their own.

"I've seen a lot of things that my educational system has said that was real that turned out to be completely fake. I don't mind going against the grain in terms of my thoughts."

Among Irving's other conspiracy theories, he says the lunar landing was fake and that there possibly has been contact with alien life forms.

"The fact that they can make all these movies with alien descriptions, they're not just going on strictly brainpower and this is just creative things that we're going to put out to everybody," he told Jefferson and Frye. "For what? All to put an alien movie out, for what?"