Jets player turns himself in for alleged Pittsburgh fight
Jets player turns himself in for alleged Pittsburgh fight
Darrelle Revis looks on after a game against the Washington Redskins at MetLife Stadium on October 18, 2015.  (Photo by Alex Goodlett/Getty Images)                Tweet     Stumble     Email  New York Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis has turned himself in to Pittsburgh police following charges alleging he was involved in a fight with two men last weekend. Revis entered a Municipal Courts building Friday. Revis didn’t answer questions on his way in, but lawyer Blaine Jones said the NFL star was apprehensive and anxious to prove his innocence, CBS Pittsburgh reports . “Anyone that’s about to be turned into the authorities, that’s tough, it’s somber, it’s very serious,” said Jones. “He’s hoping that he can be vindicated. And, I hope that in the next phase, he will be vindicated. I think he has a very good case. I do.” A docket sheet filed Thursday says Revis faces counts of aggravated assault, robbery, conspiracy to commit aggravated assault and terroristic threats over the Sunday altercation. Revis’ attorney says Revis was physically assaulted by a group of at least five people. He says Revis “feared for his safety” and sought medical attention. He hasn’t described Revis’ injuries. Police say the fight started when a man began recording a video of Revis and Revis grabbed his phone and tried to delete it. They say other men joined in and two men claimed they were punched and knocked out.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

PITTSBURGH -- New York Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis has turned himself in to Pittsburgh police following charges alleging he was involved in a fight with two men last weekend.



Revis entered a Municipal Courts building Friday.

Revis didn’t answer questions on his way in, but lawyer Blaine Jones said the NFL star was apprehensive and anxious to prove his innocence, CBS Pittsburgh reports.

“Anyone that’s about to be turned into the authorities, that’s tough, it’s somber, it’s very serious,” said Jones. “He’s hoping that he can be vindicated. And, I hope that in the next phase, he will be vindicated. I think he has a very good case. I do.”

A docket sheet filed Thursday says Revis faces counts of aggravated assault, robbery, conspiracy to commit aggravated assault and terroristic threats over the Sunday altercation.



Revis’ attorney says Revis was physically assaulted by a group of at least five people. He says Revis “feared for his safety” and sought medical attention. He hasn’t described Revis’ injuries.



Police say the fight started when a man began recording a video of Revis and Revis grabbed his phone and tried to delete it. They say other men joined in and two men claimed they were punched and knocked out.