Kyrie Irving believes the Earth is flat. It is not.

Kyrie Irving is the type of NBA player anyone would trust to take the winning shot with time expiring. But would you want the four-time NBA all-star teaching a science class? Certainly not after what he told Cleveland Cavaliers teammates Richard Jefferson and Channing Frye this week. On a podcast with Jefferson and Frye title “Road Trippin’ with RJ & Channing,” which was posted on the Cavaliers’ official website , Irving said that, despite all scientific evidence to the contrary proving that the Earth is round. Jefferson began a discussion (around the 15-minute mark) about whether aliens exist in the universe. It quickly evolved to the very non-controversial statement that the Earth is round. “The Earth is flat,” Irving, who spent some time at Duke before entering the NBA draft, repeated three times. “The fact that in our lifetimes that there are so many holes and so many pockets in our history … History is history, and it’s happened long before us, and it’s going to happen after us, and it always repeats itself somehow, in some way,” Irving said. “All these things that they keep giving to us, all this information, I’m just saying that these things that used to put me in fear, it makes you not want to question it naturally, because of how much information you actually can figure out and how much information there actually is out there. It’s crazy. Anything that you have a particular question on, ‘Okay, is the Earth flat or round?’ I think you need to do research on it. It’s right in front of our faces. I’m telling you it’s right in front of our faces. They lie to us.” When asked who “they” is, Irving denied that it was “the man.” “For what I’ve known for many years and what I’ve been taught is that the Earth is round, but if you really think about it from a landscape of the way we travel, the way we move and the fact that — can you really think of us rotating around the sun, and all planets align, rotating in specific dates, being perpendicular with what’s going on with these ‘planets’ and stuff like this?” “Everything that they send or they wanna say that they’re sending [to space] doesn’t come back,” Irving said. “It doesn’t come back. There is no concrete information, except for the information that they’re giving us. They’re particularly putting you in the direction of what to believe and what not to believe, and the truth is right there. You’ve just got to go searching for it. I’ve been searching for it for a while.” “Everything that was particularly thrown in front of me, I had to just be like, ‘Oh, this is all a facade.’ Like, this is all something that they ultimately want me to believe in … but now there is a certain aspect of life in which I want to tell people about, which is this true journey of really becoming a complete individual and total freedom of thought. Do you know what I’m saying?” “Question things, but even if an answer doesn’t come back, you’re perfectly fine with that, because you were never living in that particular truth. There’s a falseness in stories and things that people want you to believe and ultimately what they throw in front of us.” Insert thinking face emoji here, perhaps? Later Friday, ESPN’s Arash Markazi spoke to Irving and informed him that his unorthodox view has made him a trending topic on Twitter. Markazi asked Irving if he’s seen pictures of the planet, which is, in fact, round. “I’ve seen a lot of things,” Irving replied. Kyrie Irving was trending on Twitter today because he believes the Earth is flat. I asked him about it. pic.twitter.com/ODe9aP9qmK — Arash Markazi (@ArashMarkazi) February 18, 2017 Hey, at least Irving has one fellow NBA player in his corner in the person of Denver Nuggets forward Wilson Chandler. I agree with him https://t.co/lbB8gEHZsT — Wilson Chandler (@wilsonchandler) February 17, 2017



Kyrie Irving believes the Earth is flat and he’s serious about it. (Mark Duncan/AP Photo)

Kyrie Irving is the type of NBA player anyone would trust to take the winning shot with time expiring. But would you want the four-time NBA all-star teaching a science class?

Certainly not after what he told Cleveland Cavaliers teammates Richard Jefferson and Channing Frye this week.

On a podcast with Jefferson and Frye title “Road Trippin’ with RJ & Channing,” which was posted on the Cavaliers’ official website, Irving said that, despite all scientific evidence to the contrary proving that the Earth is round.

Jefferson began a discussion (around the 15-minute mark) about whether aliens exist in the universe. It quickly evolved to the very non-controversial statement that the Earth is round.

“The Earth is flat,” Irving, who spent some time at Duke before entering the NBA draft, repeated three times.

“The fact that in our lifetimes that there are so many holes and so many pockets in our history … History is history, and it’s happened long before us, and it’s going to happen after us, and it always repeats itself somehow, in some way,” Irving said. “All these things that they keep giving to us, all this information, I’m just saying that these things that used to put me in fear, it makes you not want to question it naturally, because of how much information you actually can figure out and how much information there actually is out there. It’s crazy. Anything that you have a particular question on, ‘Okay, is the Earth flat or round?’ I think you need to do research on it. It’s right in front of our faces. I’m telling you it’s right in front of our faces. They lie to us.”

When asked who “they” is, Irving denied that it was “the man.”

“For what I’ve known for many years and what I’ve been taught is that the Earth is round, but if you really think about it from a landscape of the way we travel, the way we move and the fact that — can you really think of us rotating around the sun, and all planets align, rotating in specific dates, being perpendicular with what’s going on with these ‘planets’ and stuff like this?”

“Everything that they send or they wanna say that they’re sending [to space] doesn’t come back,” Irving said. “It doesn’t come back. There is no concrete information, except for the information that they’re giving us. They’re particularly putting you in the direction of what to believe and what not to believe, and the truth is right there. You’ve just got to go searching for it. I’ve been searching for it for a while.”

“Everything that was particularly thrown in front of me, I had to just be like, ‘Oh, this is all a facade.’ Like, this is all something that they ultimately want me to believe in … but now there is a certain aspect of life in which I want to tell people about, which is this true journey of really becoming a complete individual and total freedom of thought. Do you know what I’m saying?”

“Question things, but even if an answer doesn’t come back, you’re perfectly fine with that, because you were never living in that particular truth. There’s a falseness in stories and things that people want you to believe and ultimately what they throw in front of us.”

Insert thinking face emoji here, perhaps?

Later Friday, ESPN’s Arash Markazi spoke to Irving and informed him that his unorthodox view has made him a trending topic on Twitter. Markazi asked Irving if he’s seen pictures of the planet, which is, in fact, round.

“I’ve seen a lot of things,” Irving replied.

Kyrie Irving was trending on Twitter today because he believes the Earth is flat. I asked him about it. pic.twitter.com/ODe9aP9qmK — Arash Markazi (@ArashMarkazi) February 18, 2017

Hey, at least Irving has one fellow NBA player in his corner in the person of Denver Nuggets forward Wilson Chandler.