Bill Maher Just Made A Very Serious Point About The Trump Administration 'Circus'
Bill Maher Just Made A Very Serious Point About The Trump 'Circus'
he 2008 vice presidential candidate and former Alaska governor, as a possible candidate for ambassador to Canada “While you’re watching the clown screw the pony, they’re breaking into your car,” he said. Maher then listed some things we we should actually be paying attention to, like the confirmation of the Environmental Protection Agency’s longtime adversary, Scott Pruitt , as its new chief, and Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn’s resignation as national security adviser amid allegations that he discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia with the Russian ambassador in the weeks before Trump took office. Related Coverage  Bill Maher Shreds Republicans For 'Letting Trump Run Down America'   'Late Show' Imagines Candidate Trump Running Against President Trump   Jimmy Fallon Kills It With Hilarious Trump Presser Spoof   Seth Meyers Rips Trump Over Racist News Conference Question  ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

Bill Maher warned people not to get distracted by the circus surrounding President Donald Trump’s administration on Friday.

The “Real Time” host admitted it was “fun to watch the wheels come off the Trump car” — using the president’s 77-minute “brain fart” of a news conference the previous day as an example.

But it’s only amusing “until we remember we’re riding in the back,” Maher cautioned. “Then it’s not so fucking fun any more.”

Maher said the administration’s refusal to discount Sarah Palin, the 2008 vice presidential candidate and former Alaska governor, as a possible candidate for ambassador to Canada was merely one of its several distraction tactics.

“While you’re watching the clown screw the pony, they’re breaking into your car,” he said.

Maher then listed some things we we should actually be paying attention to, like the confirmation of the Environmental Protection Agency’s longtime adversary, Scott Pruitt, as its new chief, and Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn’s resignation as national security adviser amid allegations that he discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia with the Russian ambassador in the weeks before Trump took office.