Watch Larry Wilmore Tell Milo Yiannopoulos 'Go F**k Yourself' on 'Real Time With Bill Maher'
Watch Larry Wilmore Tell Milo Yiannopoulos 'Go F**k Yourself' on 'Real Time With Bill Maher'
One of the more popular segments of Larry Wilmore’s short-lived Comedy Central vehicle , , was a “Keep it 100” guest panel. The writer, producer, and comedian brought the same brutally honest mentality to HBO’s on Friday when facing off with contributor Milo Yiannopoulos. Maher’s panel segment featured Yiannopoulos lashing out against members of the transgender community by saying all members of the transgender community suffer from "a psychiatric disorder" and are "vastly disproportionately involved with sex crimes." Wilmore quickly broke down Yiannopoulos’ argument, as the latter accusation had no factual or statistical basis. “The same arguments that were used against gay people—treating them like aliens who just wanted to fuck anything that moved, and we should avoid them at all costs—is being used [against transgender people],” Wilmore said. Yiannopoulos countered by saying his arguments were rooted in a desire to protect women and children. This would be the same man who was banned from Twitter for insinuating comedian and actor Leslie Jones was illiterate and a black man while continuing to harass her last year. Wilmore earned his red 100 emoji at around the 4:20 mark of the panel video, once Yiannopoulos called the panel a bunch of “low IQ” guests. “You can go fuck yourself, alright,” Wilmore said. “If your argument is that these people are stupid, then you didn’t hear a word this man said. He can talk circles around your pathetic, douchey little ass.” And approximately 30-seconds after, Wilmore again told Yiannopoulos to go fuck himself for his baseless Twitter attacks on Jones last year. The exchange brought about some interesting reactions via Twitter. Thanks, @larrywilmore . As the rest of the @RealTimers panel yukked it up about trans people, you came to our defense https://t.co/SbCoTR36vk The Bill Maher-Milo lovefest was, among other things, the most trans-hating discussion I've seen on television https://t.co/GnAaKGIHtA  https://t.co/MRDpluL4bW Also, I'm glad @larrywilmore was on to defend @Lesdoggg tonight on Bill Maher's show. What Milo's trolls did to her was vicious. Maher is no stranger to controversy, and he's facing criticism in some circles for what could've been construed as normalizing Yiannopoulos and his bigoted statements. Prior to the exchanges between Yiannopoulos and Wilmore, Maher shrugged off laws aimed at discriminating against the transgender community with an off-color joke by asking the panel, "So, what do we think of weirdos peeing?"

One of the more popular segments of Larry Wilmore’s short-lived Comedy Central vehicle, The Nightly Show, was a “Keep it 100” guest panel. The writer, producer, and comedian brought the same brutally honest mentality to HBO’s Real Time With Bill Maher on Friday when facing off with Breitbart contributor Milo Yiannopoulos. Maher’s panel segment featured Yiannopoulos lashing out against members of the transgender community by saying all members of the transgender community suffer from "a psychiatric disorder" and are "vastly disproportionately involved with sex crimes."

Wilmore quickly broke down Yiannopoulos’ argument, as the latter accusation had no factual or statistical basis.

“The same arguments that were used against gay people—treating them like aliens who just wanted to fuck anything that moved, and we should avoid them at all costs—is being used [against transgender people],” Wilmore said.

Yiannopoulos countered by saying his arguments were rooted in a desire to protect women and children. This would be the same man who was banned from Twitter for insinuating comedian and actor Leslie Jones was illiterate and a black man while continuing to harass her last year.

Wilmore earned his red 100 emoji at around the 4:20 mark of the panel video, once Yiannopoulos called the panel a bunch of “low IQ” guests.

“You can go fuck yourself, alright,” Wilmore said. “If your argument is that these people are stupid, then you didn’t hear a word this man said. He can talk circles around your pathetic, douchey little ass.”

And approximately 30-seconds after, Wilmore again told Yiannopoulos to go fuck himself for his baseless Twitter attacks on Jones last year. The exchange brought about some interesting reactions via Twitter.

Thanks, @larrywilmore. As the rest of the @RealTimers panel yukked it up about trans people, you came to our defense https://t.co/SbCoTR36vk — Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy) February 18, 2017

The Bill Maher-Milo lovefest was, among other things, the most trans-hating discussion I've seen on television https://t.co/GnAaKGIHtA https://t.co/MRDpluL4bW — Glenn Greenwald (@ggreenwald) February 18, 2017

Also, I'm glad @larrywilmore was on to defend @Lesdoggg tonight on Bill Maher's show. What Milo's trolls did to her was vicious. — Wajahat Ali (@WajahatAli) February 18, 2017



Maher is no stranger to controversy, and he's facing criticism in some circles for what could've been construed as normalizing Yiannopoulos and his bigoted statements. Prior to the exchanges between Yiannopoulos and Wilmore, Maher shrugged off laws aimed at discriminating against the transgender community with an off-color joke by asking the panel, "So, what do we think of weirdos peeing?"