Ross Kemp: ‘People still think I’m Grant Mitchell’

to when I was in . I did it aged 25 to 35. I was young and naive and even though I was follicly challenged, I was quite vain. I got lulled into a sense of my own self-importance – I don’t take myself that seriously any more. Emotionally, I’m like my mother. She was a hairdresser and very good at talking and listening to clients. She loves life, but wears it very much on her sleeve. My father was a detective in Scotland Yard. When I went into an autopsy room as an adult, the smell of formaldehyde took me straight back to hugging him as a kid. I was accused of talking posh. I went to London when I was 18 and when I returned to Essex my friends didn’t like my accent much. It was all part of this dreadful idea that drama schools can break you down and rebuild you into the model actor. when things become comfortable. I took my eye off the ball at certain points in the past. My acting wasn’t very good the first time I went to ITV. But maybe if I’d been more successful then, I wouldn’t have turned to documentary-making. [Kemp was married to Rebekah Brooks , née Wade]. I may regret some of the options that I took while I was in them, but hopefully that’s how we learn in life.  I’d rather not bottle it up. When you’re in a war zone, you witness people dying and nearly experience it yourself. Talking is a way to avoid it damaging you later in life. but I’m not out to get him. I still support the Labour Party . I don’t think there’s anybody on the horizon that could do the job as well as him presently. when you have children later in life. There’s no time for it. Plus, there’s enough thrill-seeking that comes with my job. when you can see there’s so much to be done. Recently, in Libya, we left young women in detention centres where they told us they were being sexually abused. They’re still there while I sit on my sofa at home. You tell yourself that you’re not an aid worker and hope that telling their story can put a spotlight on their plight. but I’m also an eternal optimist about it. I meet some very interesting, sometimes very dark people, but there are so many good people out there, too. is to sit on the sofa with a packet of Maltesers, a cup of tea and a nice book, with my two-year-old gurgling and the fire going. He had a Neanderthal-type thuggery about him. I’m not necessarily professing to be the brightest person on the planet, but I think once people have a conversation with me, they work out he was just a character I played. Ross Kemp: Libya’s Migrant Hell Topics  EastEnders   Drama   Soap opera   Television

I’m a very different person to when I was in EastEnders. I did it aged 25 to 35. I was young and naive and even though I was follicly challenged, I was quite vain. I got lulled into a sense of my own self-importance – I don’t take myself that seriously any more.

I grew up in a tight-knit household. Emotionally, I’m like my mother. She was a hairdresser and very good at talking and listening to clients. She loves life, but wears it very much on her sleeve. My father was a detective in Scotland Yard. When I went into an autopsy room as an adult, the smell of formaldehyde took me straight back to hugging him as a kid.

You can’t have a midlife crisis when you have children later in life. There’s no time for it

When I came home from drama school I was accused of talking posh. I went to London when I was 18 and when I returned to Essex my friends didn’t like my accent much. It was all part of this dreadful idea that drama schools can break you down and rebuild you into the model actor.

You have to be careful not to get lazy when things become comfortable. I took my eye off the ball at certain points in the past. My acting wasn’t very good the first time I went to ITV. But maybe if I’d been more successful then, I wouldn’t have turned to documentary-making.

I don’t regret past relationships [Kemp was married to Rebekah Brooks, née Wade]. I may regret some of the options that I took while I was in them, but hopefully that’s how we learn in life.

My way of dealing with the trauma I see is to be emotive. I’d rather not bottle it up. When you’re in a war zone, you witness people dying and nearly experience it yourself. Talking is a way to avoid it damaging you later in life.

Jeremy Corbyn’s views aren’t necessarily similar to mine, but I’m not out to get him. I still support the Labour Party. I don’t think there’s anybody on the horizon that could do the job as well as him presently.

You can’t have a midlife crisis when you have children later in life. There’s no time for it. Plus, there’s enough thrill-seeking that comes with my job.

It’s frustrating to leave a place when you can see there’s so much to be done. Recently, in Libya, we left young women in detention centres where they told us they were being sexually abused. They’re still there while I sit on my sofa at home. You tell yourself that you’re not an aid worker and hope that telling their story can put a spotlight on their plight.

I’m anxious about the state of the world, but I’m also an eternal optimist about it. I meet some very interesting, sometimes very dark people, but there are so many good people out there, too.

My idea of relaxing is to sit on the sofa with a packet of Maltesers, a cup of tea and a nice book, with my two-year-old gurgling and the fire going.

Some people still think I’m Grant Mitchell. He had a Neanderthal-type thuggery about him. I’m not necessarily professing to be the brightest person on the planet, but I think once people have a conversation with me, they work out he was just a character I played.

Ross Kemp: Libya’s Migrant Hell premieres on 21 February at 9pm on Sky1