Cue Card romps to ninth Grade One triumph by 15 lengths in Ascot Chase

Press Association   Cue Card swept to his ninth Grade One triumph with a tremendous performance in the Ascot Chase at the Berkshire course. The Colin Tizzard-trained 11-year-old will now head to the Cheltenham Gold Cup after showing he still retains plenty of ability with his second win in the race – four years on from the first. Course specialist Royal Regatta made the running, but Paddy Brennan never let him out of his sight on Cue Card, who eased into the lead with a brilliant jump at the fourth-last. Royal Regatta stuck to his guns for a while longer, but Cue Card’s class came into play in the straight and the 4-9 favourite drew further and further clear to win by 15 lengths. Shantou Flyer stuck at it to claim second place from the tiring Royal Regatta. At Wincanton, leading Champion Hurdle contender Yanworth was made to work hard to take his unbeaten run to three this season with a narrow success in the Kingwell Hurdle. The Alan King-trained seven-year-old only got on top on the run-in, as he got the better of Ch’Tibello by a length. Last year’s winner Rayvin Black made the running until Melodic Rendezvous took over two out. He was tackled on all sides, as the King duo of Yanworth and Sceau Royal and Dan Skelton’s Ch’Tibello made their bids. There was little between the trio at the final flight, but Yanworth’s stamina came into play on the dash to the line as he asserted for Barry Geraghty to land the spoils in first-time cheekpieces. Bookmakers were not impressed, however, as Yanworth was pushed out to 9-2 from 7-2 for Cheltenham by Paddy Power. Topics  Horse racing   Ascot

Cue Card swept to his ninth Grade One triumph with a tremendous performance in the Ascot Chase at the Berkshire course.

The Colin Tizzard-trained 11-year-old will now head to the Cheltenham Gold Cup after showing he still retains plenty of ability with his second win in the race – four years on from the first.

Course specialist Royal Regatta made the running, but Paddy Brennan never let him out of his sight on Cue Card, who eased into the lead with a brilliant jump at the fourth-last.

Royal Regatta stuck to his guns for a while longer, but Cue Card’s class came into play in the straight and the 4-9 favourite drew further and further clear to win by 15 lengths. Shantou Flyer stuck at it to claim second place from the tiring Royal Regatta.

At Wincanton, leading Champion Hurdle contender Yanworth was made to work hard to take his unbeaten run to three this season with a narrow success in the Kingwell Hurdle.

The Alan King-trained seven-year-old only got on top on the run-in, as he got the better of Ch’Tibello by a length.

Alan King enjoys fine season as Yanworth warms up for Champion Hurdle Read more

Last year’s winner Rayvin Black made the running until Melodic Rendezvous took over two out. He was tackled on all sides, as the King duo of Yanworth and Sceau Royal and Dan Skelton’s Ch’Tibello made their bids.

There was little between the trio at the final flight, but Yanworth’s stamina came into play on the dash to the line as he asserted for Barry Geraghty to land the spoils in first-time cheekpieces.

Bookmakers were not impressed, however, as Yanworth was pushed out to 9-2 from 7-2 for Cheltenham by Paddy Power.