The week in apps: Yahoo gets caller ID, Yelp does 411, and more
The week in apps: Yahoo gets caller ID, Yelp does 411, and more
With a fresh wave of iPhone rumors suggesting Apple's next phone could ditch the home button , and news that Apple is moving its annual developer conference back to San Jose for the first time in years, you may have lost track of some of the best new apps. Luckily, we're keeping score for you for you. Each week, we round up the latest app news, along with a few of our favorite new and updated apps, to keep you in the loop with everything coming to your phone. SEE ALSO: What's different about Snapchat's next new original series Here's what we were following this week. Yelp gets Q&A In what has to be one of Yelp's more useful recent updates, the service now has an official question and answer feature so users can ask and answer question about restaurants and other businesses. iMessage Gaming Ever since Apple opened up iMessage to develoeprs, some of the more creative iMessage apps we've seen have been games. But EatMessage is definitely unlike any game we've seen yet. The app challenges you to use your face to control the game — eating as much food as you can while sharing goof selfies along the way. Yahoo Mail gets Caller ID What year is it again? While you'd be forgiven for reading "Yahoo" and "Caller ID" in the same sentence and thinking it was some kind of #tbt joke, the company's mail app added a new feature that, yes, helps you see who's calling. Now, if someone whose phone number is in your inbox calls you, your phone will surface their name even if their number isn't saved to your contacts . Elsewhere: is about to get a lot more like LinkedIn. The social network now includes job postings and you can apply and interview for a job without ever leaving (PSA: now might be a good time to check your privacy settings.) The folks behind have a new chat app — but you can't use it yet . College app has apparently pivoted . The company has a new app called Hive, which is appears to be a social network for college students . I guess anonymity isn't cool anymore. BONUS: This 3D-printed wheelchair could greatly improve lives of wheelchair users

With a fresh wave of iPhone rumors suggesting Apple's next phone could ditch the home button, and news that Apple is moving its annual developer conference back to San Jose for the first time in years, you may have lost track of some of the best new apps.

Luckily, we're keeping score for you for you. Each week, we round up the latest app news, along with a few of our favorite new and updated apps, to keep you in the loop with everything coming to your phone.

Here's what we were following this week.

Yelp gets Q&A

In what has to be one of Yelp's more useful recent updates, the service now has an official question and answer feature so users can ask and answer question about restaurants and other businesses.

iMessage Gaming

Ever since Apple opened up iMessage to develoeprs, some of the more creative iMessage apps we've seen have been games. But EatMessage is definitely unlike any game we've seen yet. The app challenges you to use your face to control the game — eating as much food as you can while sharing goof selfies along the way.

Yahoo Mail gets Caller ID

What year is it again? While you'd be forgiven for reading "Yahoo" and "Caller ID" in the same sentence and thinking it was some kind of #tbt joke, the company's mail app added a new feature that, yes, helps you see who's calling. Now, if someone whose phone number is in your inbox calls you, your phone will surface their name even if their number isn't saved to your contacts.

Elsewhere:

Facebook is about to get a lot more like LinkedIn. The social network now includes job postings and you can apply and interview for a job without ever leaving (PSA: now might be a good time to check your privacy settings.)

The folks behind Musical.ly have a new chat app — but you can't use it yet.

College app Yik Yak has apparently pivoted. The company has a new app called Hive, which is appears to be a social network for college students. I guess anonymity isn't cool anymore.