Stephen Colbert Says Moby Is Just As Credible As Kellyanne Conway
Stephen Colbert Says Moby Is Just As Credible As Kellyanne Conway
Moby claimed this week to be privy to secret intel that the Russian government is blackmailing President Donald Trump and that the Republicans already have a plan to push Trump out of power. According to the musician’s post on social media, he learned of these details after “spending the weekend talking to friends who work in DC.” Moby also specifically claimed that “the russian dossier on trump is real. 100% real,” referring to a document that intelligence chiefs had given to Trump as incoming president and then-President Barack Obama , as CNN reported in January. BuzzFeed quickly published the full, unverified dossier after that initial report. On Friday night’s “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert spent part of his monologue making fun of Moby’s claims, starting the segment by describing him as an “electronic artist and baby in graduate school.” After highlighting a few of Moby’s accusations, Colbert mockingly said, “And you know you can trust Moby, he’s got connections in the highest echelons of Washington’s vegan cafes.” Part of Moby’s post that referred to the internal document about Trump states, “he’s being blackmailed by the russian government, not just for being peed on by russian hookers, but for much more nefarious things.” Joking about Moby bringing up the urine-related allegation (that remains unsubstantiated), Colbert said, “You know you’ve been in the music industry for too long when being peed on by hookers starts to sound tame.” To wrap up his initial social media post, Moby wrote that he was coming out and revealing all of this because “if these things happen there will be a public record beforehand.” Colbert made a joke about this as well. “If you’re wondering when Moby’s Instagram became the public record, it was shortly after Trump’s Twitter-feed became the Library of Congress,” the comedian said to a heightened amount of studio laughter.  after spending the weekend talking to friends who work in dc i can safely(well, 'accurately'...) post the following things: 1-the russian dossier on trump is real.  100% real.  he's being blackmailed by the russian government, not just for being peed on by russian hookers, but for much more nefarious things. 2-the trump administration is in collusion with the russian government, and has been since day one.  3-the trump administration needs a war, most likely with iran.  at present they are putting u.s warships off the coast of iran in the hope that iran will attack one of the ships and give the u.s a pretense for invasion. 4-there are right wing plans to get rid of trump.  he's a drain on their fundraising and their approval ratings, and the gop and koch brothers and other u.s right wing groups are planning to get rid of trump. 5-intelligence agencies around the world, and here in the u.s, are horrified by the incompetence of the trump administration, and are working to present information that will lead to high level firings and, ultimately, impeachment. i'm writing these things so that when/if these things happen there will be a public record beforehand. these are truly baffling and horrifying times, as we have an incompetent president who is essentially owned by a foreign power. -moby A post shared by moby XⓋX (@moby) on But the focus of Colbert’s monologue wasn’t just to be hard on Moby. The comedian also brought up Tom Arnold’s December claims that he has seen out-takes from “The Apprentice” where Trump uses the “N-word.” Colbert wondered whether it’s really that crazy that random celebs are coming forward with such biting accusations. “Random celebs claiming to have dirt on the president seems crazy until you remember that the president is a random celeb,” said Colbert, who continued with his best line of the piece, “Things are so weird right now, that Moby and Tom Arnold seem more reliable than Kellyanne Conway and Sean Spicer .” Moby continued to make anti-Trump posts throughout the week, including the photo below with the caption, “Yes Mistress Putin.”  "Yes Mistress Putin" @realdonaldtrump A post shared by moby XⓋX (@moby) on ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

Moby claimed this week to be privy to secret intel that the Russian government is blackmailing President Donald Trump and that the Republicans already have a plan to push Trump out of power.

According to the musician’s post on social media, he learned of these details after “spending the weekend talking to friends who work in DC.” Moby also specifically claimed that “the russian dossier on trump is real. 100% real,” referring to a document that intelligence chiefs had given to Trump as incoming president and then-President Barack Obama, as CNN reported in January. BuzzFeed quickly published the full, unverified dossier after that initial report.

On Friday night’s “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert spent part of his monologue making fun of Moby’s claims, starting the segment by describing him as an “electronic artist and baby in graduate school.”

After highlighting a few of Moby’s accusations, Colbert mockingly said, “And you know you can trust Moby, he’s got connections in the highest echelons of Washington’s vegan cafes.”

Things are so weird right now, that Moby and Tom Arnold seem more reliable than Kellyanne Conway and Sean Spicer. Stephen Colbert

Part of Moby’s post that referred to the internal document about Trump states, “he’s being blackmailed by the russian government, not just for being peed on by russian hookers, but for much more nefarious things.” Joking about Moby bringing up the urine-related allegation (that remains unsubstantiated), Colbert said, “You know you’ve been in the music industry for too long when being peed on by hookers starts to sound tame.”

To wrap up his initial social media post, Moby wrote that he was coming out and revealing all of this because “if these things happen there will be a public record beforehand.” Colbert made a joke about this as well.

“If you’re wondering when Moby’s Instagram became the public record, it was shortly after Trump’s Twitter-feed became the Library of Congress,” the comedian said to a heightened amount of studio laughter.

But the focus of Colbert’s monologue wasn’t just to be hard on Moby. The comedian also brought up Tom Arnold’s December claims that he has seen out-takes from “The Apprentice” where Trump uses the “N-word.” Colbert wondered whether it’s really that crazy that random celebs are coming forward with such biting accusations.

“Random celebs claiming to have dirt on the president seems crazy until you remember that the president is a random celeb,” said Colbert, who continued with his best line of the piece, “Things are so weird right now, that Moby and Tom Arnold seem more reliable than Kellyanne Conway and Sean Spicer.”

Moby continued to make anti-Trump posts throughout the week, including the photo below with the caption, “Yes Mistress Putin.”