NSW weather: Brace for a third day of storm activity, BOM warns



NSW weather: Brace for a third day of storm activity, BOM warns

Updated

The Bureau of Meteorology has warned residents in Sydney, the Hunter region and the central coast of New South Wales to prepare for more storms, after two days of severe weather caused widespread blackouts and property damage.

Three severe thunderstorms swept the state's east coast yesterday afternoon, and wild weather on Friday left thousands of homes in Sydney's north and on the NSW central coast without power.

Senior BOM forecaster Peter Zmijewski said the wild weather is expected to return to the central and south coast later today.

"Over NSW ... there is a high chance of showers in the north-east of the state with afternoon thunderstorms and showers likely," he said.

The State Emergency Service (SES) yesterday received more than 650 calls for help, mainly for help to repair leaking roofs, fix broken windows and to clear fallen trees and powerlines.

SES volunteers worked through the night to assist the clean-up effort, with more expected to join today ahead of the next round of wild weather.

"They were still clearing some of those jobs [from Friday] and they've got another 650 jobs on top of that," said SES spokesperson Sue Pritchard.

"We've got teams from other areas, from the Southern Highlands and also from the Illawarra, coming up to help the teams within Sydney."

Emergency services are advising residents to storm-proof their homes by clearing their gutters and securing outdoor furniture.

"We're asking people, on Sunday, if the sun's shining can they get out and have a look at their gutters to make sure that they're clear, make sure that any drains around the property are also clear," Ms Pritchard said.

'Biggest hail I've ever seen'

North-west of Sydney bore the brunt of yesterday's storm.

"Those storm cells that have come through have impacted heavily around the Kellyville, Rouse Hill and Castle Hill area," said Ms Pritchard.

Three women, aged in their 60s, were sitting on a park bench at Corbett Gardens in Bowral when they were struck by a bolt of lightning.

They have been taken to hospital, with one woman suffering serious burns to her body and the other two treated for shock.

People took to social media to share photos of large hail, which damaged several cars and was described by one Twitter user as the "biggest hail I've ever seen".

Saturday's destructive weather came a day after wild weather left thousands of homes in Sydney's north and on the New South Wales Central Coast facing days without power.

Topics: weather, storm-event, penrith-2750, nsw, campbelltown-2560, australia, palm-beach-2108, shellharbour-2529, wollongong-2500

First posted