In Maharashtra Civic Polls, Candidates Are Hiring Detectives To Spy On Opponenets
In Maharashtra Civic Polls, Candidates Are Hiring Detectives To Spy On Opponenets
In Maharashtra Civic Polls, Candidates Are Hiring Detectives To Spy On Opponenets It’s that time of the year when political parties sharpen their gaze on opponents, ready to jump on the slightest indiscretion or error and turn it to their advantage. For the looming municipal elections, however, politicos have turned it up a notch and hired professional detective agencies to keep an eye not only on opposing parties and candidates, but also on their own aspirants and key members. Right from selecting a good candidate and pinpointing the weaknesses of opponents, to spying on campaigns and keeping a close watch on illegal activities, professional detectives are having a busy run this poll season. “For the last few months, we have been getting enquiries from political parties for various kinds of investigations and surveys. Initially, it was only to probe the documents submitted by contestants — caste certificate, property disclosure documents, etc. Then, we started getting asked to spy on people who are close to party leaders. The aspirants themselves are never involved in planning or campaign strategy. It is always their subordinates or those close to them. Our job is mostly to keep a watch on the opponents’ wingmen. We are working on cases across Pune, Baramati, Ahmednagar and Nashik and have hired 20 additional people for the election,” said Sunil Shitole, owner of Info Detective Services. Digging into the lives of politicians is bound to get murky, but these detectives are professionals and undeterred. Said Shitole, “Our boys blend into the particular political party and are present at all campaigns and road shows. Then, the real work begins. Recently, a candidate asked us for personal details about his opponent and we found out that he (the opponent) was having an extra-marital affair. This naturally became a strong point to work against him.” And, politicos start preparing such handy information much in advance. Rajendra Pandey, the owner of Corporate Intelligence Services, said, “We started getting enquiries to collect information about opponent parties and aspirants six months ago. Illegal distribution of gifts and cash during campaigns is a big draw for us. Recently, a truck loaded with gifts had come into a big housing society. At the same time, the opposition party had also come to the spot with gifts. The matter got so heated that finally, the police were called in to settle the issue. We have hired nine people for election-related cases. They go about in disguise, wearing caps and T-shirts given out by a particular party and mix with their volunteers. They are provided mini-cameras attached to their clothes to take photos for evidence.” These investigative agencies charge between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 per day, based on the manner of information or investigation. At the end of their survey, a final report is submitted to the customer. Elaborating on the process, Narendra Kulkarni, owner of Focus Detective Agency, said, “Initially, people came to us for a detailed survey of people in certain areas so they could choose their candidates. We checked various details of potential candidates such as criminal background, whether any civil or criminal suit has been filed against them and what social activities they have actually carried out in their area. Then, after the nominations are filed, contestants approach us individually to get details about their opponent — their weaknesses, campaigning strategies, etc. In some cases, political parties have even come to us to get information about their own candidates, fearing the person in question may join another party.”

It’s that time of the year when political parties sharpen their gaze on opponents, ready to jump on the slightest indiscretion or error and turn it to their advantage. For the looming municipal elections, however, politicos have turned it up a notch and hired professional detective agencies to keep an eye not only on opposing parties and candidates, but also on their own aspirants and key members.

AP/representational image

Right from selecting a good candidate and pinpointing the weaknesses of opponents, to spying on campaigns and keeping a close watch on illegal activities, professional detectives are having a busy run this poll season.

“For the last few months, we have been getting enquiries from political parties for various kinds of investigations and surveys. Initially, it was only to probe the documents submitted by contestants — caste certificate, property disclosure documents, etc. Then, we started getting asked to spy on people who are close to party leaders. The aspirants themselves are never involved in planning or campaign strategy. It is always their subordinates or those close to them. Our job is mostly to keep a watch on the opponents’ wingmen. We are working on cases across Pune, Baramati, Ahmednagar and Nashik and have hired 20 additional people for the election,” said Sunil Shitole, owner of Info Detective Services.

Punemirro/representational image

Digging into the lives of politicians is bound to get murky, but these detectives are professionals and undeterred. Said Shitole, “Our boys blend into the particular political party and are present at all campaigns and road shows. Then, the real work begins. Recently, a candidate asked us for personal details about his opponent and we found out that he (the opponent) was having an extra-marital affair.

This naturally became a strong point to work against him.” And, politicos start preparing such handy information much in advance. Rajendra Pandey, the owner of Corporate Intelligence Services, said, “We started getting enquiries to collect information about opponent parties and aspirants six months ago. Illegal distribution of gifts and cash during campaigns is a big draw for us.

Recently, a truck loaded with gifts had come into a big housing society. At the same time, the opposition party had also come to the spot with gifts. The matter got so heated that finally, the police were called in to settle the issue. We have hired nine people for election-related cases. They go about in disguise, wearing caps and T-shirts given out by a particular party and mix with their volunteers. They are provided mini-cameras attached to their clothes to take photos for evidence.”

BCCL/representational image

These investigative agencies charge between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 per day, based on the manner of information or investigation. At the end of their survey, a final report is submitted to the customer. Elaborating on the process, Narendra Kulkarni, owner of Focus Detective Agency, said, “Initially, people came to us for a detailed survey of people in certain areas so they could choose their candidates.

We checked various details of potential candidates such as criminal background, whether any civil or criminal suit has been filed against them and what social activities they have actually carried out in their area. Then, after the nominations are filed, contestants approach us individually to get details about their opponent — their weaknesses, campaigning strategies, etc. In some cases, political parties have even come to us to get information about their own candidates, fearing the person in question may join another party.”

Don't Miss 743 SHARES 121.5 K SHARES 54.4 K SHARES 36.9 K SHARES 33.2 K SHARES

“Recently, we had a case where the personal driver of a political leader went missing just before the election. The leader came to us and wanted to know exactly what happened — has the driver joined another politico, been kidnapped by another party or individual, or met with a mishap. In another case, an aspirant wanted us to spy on his brother’s wife, who is also contesting the election. He wanted information about her campaign and to check whether his own people are supporting her from the inside,” Kulkarni added.

BCCL/representational image

The element of risk does not go unnoticed and, as professionals, these detectives cannot be foolhardy. “It’s always a risk and we refuse such cases most of the time. I must say, though, this time I have personally noticed that the most deserving candidates are often left behind,” Kulkarni mused.

For political parties, it’s all a means to a winning end. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and ex-mayor of Pune Ankush Kakade said, “This is a political war — there is nothing wrong in depending on professionals for accurate information. These detective agencies play a major role in the election.”

However, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s city unit, Yogesh Gogawale, told Mirror, “Our party is never involved in such private investigations or spying on opponents. We believe that people cannot make up their minds based on information coming in over 15 days or a month. I don’t think a political leader’s chances are marred due to criticism based on information gleaned by detective agencies. Ultimately, it depends on the aspirant’s work and the party’s vision.”

On February 21, 1,102 candidates will be contesting from 41 wards for 162 seats in the PMC. The results will be announced on February 23.

Originally Published In Pune Mirror