Columbia University accidentally sent acceptance letters to 277 applicants
Columbia University accidentally sent acceptance letters to 277 applicants
Shares               An Ivy League university informed more than 200 students that they'd been accepted earlier this week, but it turned out to be a mistake. Columbia University said it accidentally sent acceptance emails to 277 prospective students on Wednesday and then recalled them. The university said the notices "incorrectly implied" that they'd been admitted to its Mailman School of Public Health Master's program. Columbia said it sent a follow-up email within an hour saying the initial notice was sent erroneously. Columbia attributed the mix-up to "human error" and said it is working to strengthen its procedures. "We deeply apologize for this miscommunication. We value the energy and enthusiasm that our applicants bring to the admissions process, and regret the stress and confusion caused by this mistake," Julie Kornfeld, Vice Dean for Education at Columbia University, told ABC News in a statement on Friday. "We are working assiduously to strengthen our internal procedures in order to ensure that this mistake does not happen in the future," the statement continued. The university did not immediately respond to ABC News' requests for additional information on what will happen to those students' applications. Columbia is not the first university to make such a mistake. In 2015, Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh said it mistakenly informed 800 applicants that they were accepted into their master’s program in computer science, the university said on its website. And just last year, the University of Buffalo sent out 5,109 acceptance letters in error, according to CNN. Shares                  Columbia University accidentally sent acceptance letters to 277 applicants   Trump holds campaign rally in Florida   At least 4 dead as fierce Southern California storm causes flash floods   'Blind Sheikh' linked to 1993 World Trade Center bombing dies in US federal prison   McCain slams Trump in Munich speech without using his name   Fighters scrambled to intercept plane near Mar-a-Lago   Autopsy on N. Korean inconclusive as 4th person arrested   Mark Cuban wears no. 46 NBA jersey in nod to Trump feud   Trump sons open Dubai golf club as namesake now US president   Pence offers 'unwavering' NATO pledge, leaves open questions   Tensions over Trump deepen fractures among American Jews   Report: ISIS's 'business model' near collapse   Senate confirms EPA nominee Scott Pruitt despite a renewed court battle   Earth has a new continent called 'Zealandia'   Biologists find weird cave life that may be 50,000 years old   Hundreds of DC Zika virus tests to be re-examined after 'technical issues'   Tiffany's pushed out employee with cancer mutation   James Earl Jones, Donald Glover cast in 'Lion King' remake   Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd open up about parenting   'World News Tonight’s' David Muir on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

An Ivy League university informed more than 200 students that they'd been accepted earlier this week, but it turned out to be a mistake.

Columbia University said it accidentally sent acceptance emails to 277 prospective students on Wednesday and then recalled them.

The university said the notices "incorrectly implied" that they'd been admitted to its Mailman School of Public Health Master's program. Columbia said it sent a follow-up email within an hour saying the initial notice was sent erroneously.

Columbia attributed the mix-up to "human error" and said it is working to strengthen its procedures.

"We deeply apologize for this miscommunication. We value the energy and enthusiasm that our applicants bring to the admissions process, and regret the stress and confusion caused by this mistake," Julie Kornfeld, Vice Dean for Education at Columbia University, told ABC News in a statement on Friday.

"We are working assiduously to strengthen our internal procedures in order to ensure that this mistake does not happen in the future," the statement continued.

The university did not immediately respond to ABC News' requests for additional information on what will happen to those students' applications.

Columbia is not the first university to make such a mistake.

In 2015, Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh said it mistakenly informed 800 applicants that they were accepted into their master’s program in computer science, the university said on its website.

And just last year, the University of Buffalo sent out 5,109 acceptance letters in error, according to CNN.