Hillary Clinton Absolutely Burns Michael Flynn With A Single Tweet
Hillary Clinton Absolutely Burns Michael Flynn With A Single Tweet
Michael Flynn resigned as President Donald Trump ’s national security advisor on Monday night, and 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton retweeted a suggestion for a new line of work... at Domino’s Pizza. Flynn and his son, Michael Flynn Jr., had spread conspiracy theories on social media about Clinton, former President and more. The younger Flynn helped spread the debunked #PizzaGate conspiracy theory in which Comet Ping Pong, a Washington, D.C., pizza place, was supposedly at the center of a pedophilia ring linked to the Clinton campaign. He was fired from the transition team as a result. Now that the elder Flynn is also out of work , former Clinton aide Philippe Reines sent a tweet suggesting the pizza gig: Dear Mike Flynn & Mike Flynn Jr., What goes around COMETS around. And given your pizza obsession... https://t.co/rmyO7wyJKX xo Philippe Clinton retweeted Reines, and added: Philippe's got his own way of saying things, but he has a point about the real consequences of fake news... https://t.co/a02sXiaHfp ALSO ON HUFFPOST Fake News Spread By Social Media During The 2016 Election       Share this slide:       MORE:

Michael Flynn resigned as President Donald Trump’s national security advisor on Monday night, and 2016 Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton retweeted a suggestion for a new line of work... at Domino’s Pizza.

Flynn and his son, Michael Flynn Jr., had spread conspiracy theories on social media about Clinton, former President Barack Obama and more.

The younger Flynn helped spread the debunked #PizzaGate conspiracy theory in which Comet Ping Pong, a Washington, D.C., pizza place, was supposedly at the center of a pedophilia ring linked to the Clinton campaign.

He was fired from the transition team as a result.

Now that the elder Flynn is also out of work, former Clinton aide Philippe Reines sent a tweet suggesting the pizza gig:

Dear Mike Flynn & Mike Flynn Jr.,



What goes around COMETS around.



And given your pizza obsession...https://t.co/rmyO7wyJKX



xo



Philippe — Philippe Reines (@PhilippeReines) February 14, 2017

Clinton retweeted Reines, and added: