Vegan Indian wedding scammer going hungry in jail
Indian wedding scammer says he will suffer in jail because he's vegan


A man who made more than $100,000 in a spousal visa scam has asked for leniency because of the low quality of vegan food available in jail.

Migration officer Chetan Mashru and marriage celebrant Divya Gowda ran a scam marriage service from their Brisbane townhouse, arranging for 'down on their luck' brides to wed strangers in exchange for an upfront lump sum and ongoing payments.

Mashru, a former migration officer, and celebrant Divya Gowda are due to be sentenced on Tuesday over the spousal visa racket.

They arranged 16 bogus weddings between Indian men and Australian women, Brisbane District Court heard on Friday morning.

Migration officer Chetan Mashru (pictured), who made more than $100,000 in a spousal visa scam, has asked for leniency because of the low quality of prison vegan food

'It was not a small-scale affair by any means,' crown prosecutor Greg Lynham said during sentence submissions.

Mr Lynham told the court a prison term was appropriate for both, but Mashru asked for leniency, saying a long sentence would cause him undue hardship as he is a vegan and has medical issues.

His submission did not wash with Judge Terry Martin.

'I'm reluctant, to put it mildly, to accept anything Mr Mashru tells me,' Judge Martin said.

Mashru said he was already suffering, having been placed in custody on Thursday night after being found guilty by a jury.

'Since yesterday, I wasn't able to eat or drink anything because of the principles that I have,' he told the court.

Mashru and Gowda have been found guilty of a total 66 charges, 34 of which relate to Mashru helping grooms complete dishonest immigration applications.

Migration officer Chetan Mashru and marriage celebrant Divya Gowda (pictured) were found guilty of marrying off 16 Australian women to Indian men as part of a spousal visa scam

Mashru (left) told the court on Thursday he should not be punished because 'I don't believe I'm guilty'. He and Divya Gowda (right) are due to be sentenced on Tuesday

Most of the couples whose sham weddings he helped arrange married at their first meeting at ceremonies which involved only a signing of documents and handing over of birth certificates.

'There were no marriage vows exchanged, none of the other trimmings that would otherwise be associated with a marriage,' Mr Lynham said.

'These were marriages that were designed specifically and exclusively for the purpose of demonstrating that the couples were married, in order to support a visa application.'

The court heard the grooms were usually charged between $9,000 and $10,000, with Mashru keeping half, though one man paid $25,000.

Mashru, who represented himself at trial, also told the court on Thursday he should not be punished because 'I don't believe I'm guilty'.

The pair, who are both in custody, are due to be sentenced on Tuesday morning.