Police: Tucson mayor carjacked, uninjured
Police: Tucson mayor carjacked, uninjured
Shares                Tucson police say Mayor Jonathan Rothschild wasn't injured when he was carjacked at gunpoint. Police Sgt. Pete Dugan says a male suspect pointed a handgun at Rothschild and demanded his car keys as Rothschild walked to his car Saturday. Dugan says the same suspect was involved in several other incidents in the same midtown area before the carjacking, so detectives don't think the mayor was targeted because of his city office. Dugan says the other incidents included an unsuccessful carjacking attempt and some sort of altercation with a mail carrier. Dugan says the suspect and the car haven't been located. No detailed suspect description is available, including whether suspect is an adult. The incident happened in the area of Tucson Boulevard and Fifth Street. Shares                  Police: Tucson mayor carjacked, uninjured   Trump says he will get Gulf states to pay for 'safe zones' in Syria   Congress members met with crowds and protests at town halls   Man charged in triple shooting that killed Chicago toddler   At least 4 dead as fierce Southern California storm causes flash floods   'Blind Sheikh' linked to 1993 World Trade Center bombing dies in US federal prison   McCain slams Trump in Munich speech without using his name   Fighters scrambled to intercept plane near Mar-a-Lago   Autopsy on N. Korean inconclusive as 4th person arrested   Mark Cuban wears no. 46 NBA jersey in nod to Trump feud   Trump sons open Dubai golf club as namesake now US president   Pence offers 'unwavering' NATO pledge, leaves open questions   Tensions over Trump deepen fractures among American Jews   Report: ISIS's 'business model' near collapse   Senate confirms EPA nominee Scott Pruitt despite a renewed court battle   Earth has a new continent called 'Zealandia'   Biologists find weird cave life that may be 50,000 years old   Hundreds of DC Zika virus tests to be re-examined after 'technical issues'   Tiffany's pushed out employee with cancer mutation   Columbia University accidentally sent acceptance letters to 277 applicants   James Earl Jones, Donald Glover cast in 'Lion King' remake   Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd open up about parenting   'World News Tonight’s' David Muir on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

Tucson police say Mayor Jonathan Rothschild wasn't injured when he was carjacked at gunpoint.

Police Sgt. Pete Dugan says a male suspect pointed a handgun at Rothschild and demanded his car keys as Rothschild walked to his car Saturday.

Dugan says the same suspect was involved in several other incidents in the same midtown area before the carjacking, so detectives don't think the mayor was targeted because of his city office.

Dugan says the other incidents included an unsuccessful carjacking attempt and some sort of altercation with a mail carrier.

Dugan says the suspect and the car haven't been located.

No detailed suspect description is available, including whether suspect is an adult.

The incident happened in the area of Tucson Boulevard and Fifth Street.