Theresa May must not falter in tackling domestic violence | Barbara Ellen

heresa May should be commended for her continuing commitment to the victims of domestic violence. As home secretary, May criminalised coercive and controlling behaviour . She also introduced domestic violence protection orders and a disclosure scheme under which people could find out if their partner had a history of such offences. Last week, the home secretary, Lynne Truss, announced that, among other changes, domestic victims would no longer have to face interrogation by their abusers in family court and undertook to look into restricting the practice of victims’ sexual histories being taken into account. Now, the prime minister is working towards a new domestic violence and abuse act, the aim being to increase prosecutions for domestic violence, overhaul and simplify the legal process and make the “postcode lottery”’ of how victims are dealt with a thing of the past. While there are many things you could criticise May’s government for, a heartfelt bravo is in order for all of this. Such bold moves would also have the effect of raising public awareness and further strengthening the credibility of victims. Some of you out there might be confused by this – in this day and age, why should domestic violence have any credibility issues? After all, this isn’t Russia, where Vladimir Putin recently approved a legal change that decriminalised some domestic violence. Surely British society has come a long way since women being routinely terrorised in their own homes was seen as a minor local difficulty, not really something to bother the police or authorities with? However, while things are improving, there is still a lingering public misconception about domestic violence. Even though victims are still dying at the rate of an average of two a week, physical and mental injuries of survivors are nigh on incalculable and countless child witnesses have their early years ruined, there still remains a mist of not only confusion, but also of what could only be described as targeted diminishment. There is a sense in some quarters that the “domestic” somehow cancels out the “violence”, or at least mutes and trivialises it. Hence, the more scrutiny and importance officially placed upon domestic violence, the better it is for victims. Bearing this in mind, it’s easy to see why groups and charities concerned by domestic violence are praising May’s efforts. However, they would also be only too aware of the inconsistencies in the government response. There was news, only last week, that victims wait on average two years to receive financial compensation, double the amount of time recommended by Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority. A shocking 17% of women’s refuges have closed since 2010 , leaving some areas without any. Proposed government reductions to benefits could affect victims’ payments, the same money that refuges desperately need to stay functioning. On this last point, there’s a delay until 2018, while the issue is reviewed, to determine whether victims of domestic violence and other vulnerable groups should be exempted from the cuts. Which could be interesting. In a week of such positive developments, it seems almost churlish to note that so much in this area depends on money – from delays in payments, to lack of funding, to proposed threats to future funding. Perhaps it would serve the prime minister to remember that, whatever other damage and pain is going on, domestic violence has a powerful economic dimension – victims and those who help them need money to rebuild lives. When she was home secretary, perhaps May felt that her hands were tied to an extent, but she’s prime minister now. While she has so far done an impressive job on the issue, when it comes to putting government funds where her mouth is, there appears to be an opportunity to do even better. Before the laptop gets lippy, turn it off It is my solemn duty to inform you that computers are going to overthrow the human race. Researchers at Google’s Deep Mind (artificial intelligence division) have discovered that computers learn to become “highly aggressive” when placed in stressful competitive situations. Which sounds a bit like me playing Trivial Pursuit after one too many Baileys, though, with these computers, there was some complicated apple-collecting scenario. When the apples were plentiful, or the computers were pre-programmed to work together, it was all fine. However, if there was a shortage of apples, the computers started blasting their rivals with lasers. And the smarter the computer was, the nastier it got. I don’t like to boast, but it still sounds like me after the Baileys. This behaviour apparently mimics something called homo economicus – the notion that human nature is essentially rational but also narrowly self-interested. Being a tad technophobic, by this time, my reaction was becoming a little homo thickus. On the other hand, I’ve seen Terminator and, obviously, apples or not, this cocky-computer situation can’t be allowed to continue. Experts say that computers are hardly likely to annihilate the human race (the term “artificial stupidity” was bandied about). However, I still think that the only logical reaction is for everybody to panic and overreact. If nothing else, it would help take our minds off all the real terrible stuff going on in the world. My technophobia rather limits my options for useful suggestions here. May I humbly propose that in the event of AI attempting to vanquish humankind, and take over the Earth, people of the world could all synchronise in unleashing what’s still our greatest weapon against the awesome and mysterious might of computers: turn it off and turn it on again. A mammophant? That’s so much woolly thinking There are plans to bring the woolly mammoth back from extinction, as near as dammit. A team at Harvard is attempting to genetically engineer mammoth traits and combine them with those of Asian elephants to form a shaggy-haired, small-eared, cold-adapted hybrid playfully described as a “mammophant”. The scientists say this would not only preserve the Asian elephant in an altered form, but the mammoth could also help combat global warming by preventing tundra permafrost from melting, by punching through snow and allowing cold air to get in. So far, so . However, erm, why? Was anyone particularly desperate to have the woolly mammoth back? Already ethical objections have been raised about how such a highly social herd mammal would fare and how other elephants might react to it. Instead of preserving the Asian elephant in another form, conjuring some version of a beast that became extinct 4,000 years ago, why not just help endangered Asian elephants? Bringing back the woolly mammoth was a cute idea (reminiscent of a premise for a Disney film franchise) but perhaps it should have stayed just that.                                         Topics  Domestic violence   Theresa May   Laptops   Computing   Animals

Theresa May should be commended for her continuing commitment to the victims of domestic violence. As home secretary, May criminalised coercive and controlling behaviour. She also introduced domestic violence protection orders and a disclosure scheme under which people could find out if their partner had a history of such offences.

Last week, the home secretary, Lynne Truss, announced that, among other changes, domestic victims would no longer have to face interrogation by their abusers in family court and undertook to look into restricting the practice of victims’ sexual histories being taken into account. Now, the prime minister is working towards a new domestic violence and abuse act, the aim being to increase prosecutions for domestic violence, overhaul and simplify the legal process and make the “postcode lottery”’ of how victims are dealt with a thing of the past. While there are many things you could criticise May’s government for, a heartfelt bravo is in order for all of this.

Such bold moves would also have the effect of raising public awareness and further strengthening the credibility of victims. Some of you out there might be confused by this – in this day and age, why should domestic violence have any credibility issues? After all, this isn’t Russia, where Vladimir Putin recently approved a legal change that decriminalised some domestic violence. Surely British society has come a long way since women being routinely terrorised in their own homes was seen as a minor local difficulty, not really something to bother the police or authorities with?

However, while things are improving, there is still a lingering public misconception about domestic violence. Even though victims are still dying at the rate of an average of two a week, physical and mental injuries of survivors are nigh on incalculable and countless child witnesses have their early years ruined, there still remains a mist of not only confusion, but also of what could only be described as targeted diminishment. There is a sense in some quarters that the “domestic” somehow cancels out the “violence”, or at least mutes and trivialises it. Hence, the more scrutiny and importance officially placed upon domestic violence, the better it is for victims.

Bearing this in mind, it’s easy to see why groups and charities concerned by domestic violence are praising May’s efforts. However, they would also be only too aware of the inconsistencies in the government response. There was news, only last week, that victims wait on average two years to receive financial compensation, double the amount of time recommended by Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority. A shocking 17% of women’s refuges have closed since 2010, leaving some areas without any. Proposed government reductions to benefits could affect victims’ payments, the same money that refuges desperately need to stay functioning.

On this last point, there’s a delay until 2018, while the issue is reviewed, to determine whether victims of domestic violence and other vulnerable groups should be exempted from the cuts. Which could be interesting. In a week of such positive developments, it seems almost churlish to note that so much in this area depends on money – from delays in payments, to lack of funding, to proposed threats to future funding.

Perhaps it would serve the prime minister to remember that, whatever other damage and pain is going on, domestic violence has a powerful economic dimension – victims and those who help them need money to rebuild lives. When she was home secretary, perhaps May felt that her hands were tied to an extent, but she’s prime minister now. While she has so far done an impressive job on the issue, when it comes to putting government funds where her mouth is, there appears to be an opportunity to do even better.

Before the laptop gets lippy, turn it off

Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘And the smarter the computer was, the nastier it got.’ Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA

It is my solemn duty to inform you that computers are going to overthrow the human race. Researchers at Google’s Deep Mind (artificial intelligence division) have discovered that computers learn to become “highly aggressive” when placed in stressful competitive situations. Which sounds a bit like me playing Trivial Pursuit after one too many Baileys, though, with these computers, there was some complicated apple-collecting scenario. When the apples were plentiful, or the computers were pre-programmed to work together, it was all fine. However, if there was a shortage of apples, the computers started blasting their rivals with lasers. And the smarter the computer was, the nastier it got. I don’t like to boast, but it still sounds like me after the Baileys.

This behaviour apparently mimics something called homo economicus – the notion that human nature is essentially rational but also narrowly self-interested. Being a tad technophobic, by this time, my reaction was becoming a little homo thickus. On the other hand, I’ve seen Terminator and, obviously, apples or not, this cocky-computer situation can’t be allowed to continue.

Experts say that computers are hardly likely to annihilate the human race (the term “artificial stupidity” was bandied about). However, I still think that the only logical reaction is for everybody to panic and overreact. If nothing else, it would help take our minds off all the real terrible stuff going on in the world. My technophobia rather limits my options for useful suggestions here. May I humbly propose that in the event of AI attempting to vanquish humankind, and take over the Earth, people of the world could all synchronise in unleashing what’s still our greatest weapon against the awesome and mysterious might of computers: turn it off and turn it on again.

A mammophant? That’s so much woolly thinking

Facebook Twitter Pinterest May the tusk force with be. Photograph: Andrew Nelmerm/Getty Images/Dorling Kindersley

There are plans to bring the woolly mammoth back from extinction, as near as dammit. A team at Harvard is attempting to genetically engineer mammoth traits and combine them with those of Asian elephants to form a shaggy-haired, small-eared, cold-adapted hybrid playfully described as a “mammophant”.

The scientists say this would not only preserve the Asian elephant in an altered form, but the mammoth could also help combat global warming by preventing tundra permafrost from melting, by punching through snow and allowing cold air to get in.

So far, so Jurassic Park: The Documentary. However, erm, why? Was anyone particularly desperate to have the woolly mammoth back?

Already ethical objections have been raised about how such a highly social herd mammal would fare and how other elephants might react to it. Instead of preserving the Asian elephant in another form, conjuring some version of a beast that became extinct 4,000 years ago, why not just help endangered Asian elephants? Bringing back the woolly mammoth was a cute idea (reminiscent of a premise for a Disney film franchise) but perhaps it should have stayed just that.