How the world's fattest woman has lost 66lbs in FIVE DAYS
How the world's fattest woman has lost 66lbs in FIVE DAYS


The world's fattest woman has lost 66lbs in five days ahead of her lifesaving treatment.

Eman Ahmed, 78 stone, was flown from her home in Egypt to India on a specially modified cargo plane to undergo a series of operations to help her lose weight.

She has since been placed on a strict 1,200-calorie diet and lost a stone a day in her first five days at the hospital.

Eman Ahmed, 78 stone, was flown from her home in Egypt to India on a specially modified cargo plane to undergo a series of operations to help her lose weight

She has since been placed on a strict 1,200-calorie diet and lost a stone a day in her first five days at the hospital

The walls of her room reportedly had to be knocked down to bring her out before she was lifted out of her bed by a crane.

She was placed in a mini-truck at Chhatrapati Shivaji International airport and transported to Saifee Hospital in Mumbai India on Saturday.

Medics today said in her first five days at the hospital she lost a staggering 66lbs - more than 13lbs a day - after being put on a liquid diet.

Doctors aim to reduce her weight by 450lbs this year so she can fit on the operating table.

Bariatric surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala said: 'We need to get her in shape for the surgery.

'The operation table can take the weight of 1,000lbs but the width of the elevator is only 141 cm. Eman is currently 151 cm in width.'

Doctors aim to reduce her weight by 200 kg this year so she can fit on the operating table

Eman was reportedly born with elephantiasis - a parasitic infection which causes extreme swelling in a person's limbs and arms

Eman was reportedly born with elephantiasis - a parasitic infection which causes extreme swelling in a person's limbs and arms.

She has been heavy all her life and by the time she was 11 she was too heavy to walk, and had to crawl to get around.

She suffered a cerebral stroke as a child which left her bed-ridden and she piled on the pounds.

Her family posted a desperate plea online to Egyptian president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi asking for medical assistance.

After hearing about her case, Dr Lakdawala agree to help her free of charge..

Eman Ahmed Abd El Aty (pictured via video screen at the hospital) weighs around 1,100lb and had not left her house in more than two decades until arriving in Mumbai at the weekend for bariatric surgery

Eman has been put on a 1,200-calorie per day high protein and fibre diet, and is fed every two hours.

She is also undergoing two sessions of physiotherapy a day and is now able to lift her limbs higher and sleep better.

She is currently undergoing tests with the hope of having surgery in a few weeks time.

Last week, doctors said the 36-year-old would be fed only liquid supplements for the next 25 days to help her lose the 110lb (50kg) required before they can begin operating.

'Only after all the diseases related to obesity are brought under control and Eman loses weight will we conduct the surgery,' Dr Muffazal Lakdawala told reporters, adding the procedure would take two and a half hours.

Doctors put her on a special liquid diet on Monday as they prepared her for an emergency weight-loss operation

Eman Ahmed Abd El Aty, 36, has been bed-ridden in her home in Alexandria, Egypt, for the past 25 years due to a medical condition called Elephantiasis

The specialist weight-loss surgeon said he and his team at Mumbai's Saifee hospital hoped the surgery would help Abd El Aty shed another 330lb (150kg).

It would allow her to sit up and feed herself, something not possible in her present state.

Following the surgery she will spend five months being closely monitored by the Indian specialists and receiving physiotherapy to exercise her muscles before returning to Egypt.

Lakdawala said if the initial treatment was successful then doctors could use surgery to bring Abd El Aty's weight down to under 220lb (100kg) in a couple of years' time.

The Egyptian, who hails from the Mediterranean port city of Alexandria, was flown to India's commercial capital in a specially modified in an Egypt Air cargo plane on Saturday for treatment.

A wall of her room had to be brought down to help bring her out before she was lifted by a crane and placed in an Egypt Air cargo plane

Doctors have been preparing her for the journey over the past 10 days, including building a bed specially for her

Above is the crane which was used to take Ms Aty to Saifee Hospital in Mumbai in western India, where she will undergo a series of Bariatric procedures

Footage was taken of the moment she was craned on to the plane in the early hours of this morning from her home town

After a seven-hour flight, she was placed in a mini truck at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport and transported to hospital, where she will undergo a series of Bariatric procedures.

Ms Aty was born weighing a staggering 11lbs and was shortly diagnosed afterwards with the parasitic disease

She was accompanied by her sister, Shaimaa Ahmed, and a team of doctors from the hospital.

A spokesperson for the hospital said: 'She, along with her sister Shaimaa Ahmed, arrived in Mumbai at around 4am to prepare her for the flight.

'The team of doctors have been in Egypt for the last 10 days to optimise the conditions for her travel.

'Given the fact that she is so heavy, and not moved for the last 25 years, she is at a high risk (of suffering) a pulmonary embolism.

'(She) has been put on blood thinners to try and minimise the chances of such an eventuality during her transfer.'

Abd El Aty's sister had approached Lakdawala in October, saying her sibling needed urgent medical attention.

Eman was born weighing a staggering 11lb and was shortly diagnosed afterwards with the parasitic disease.

By the time she turned 11, she was too heavy to support her weight standing up, and resorted to crawling in her home on her knees.

Several people were then seen gathering around the truck as it arrived. A spokesperson for Saifee Hospital said Ms Aty was given blood thinners in the days leading up to the transfer to prevent her from suffering a pulmonary embolism

She was then, very carefully, lifted out of the truck and on to the plane, where she was then flown to the hospital with her sister by her side

Around the same time she dropped out of primary school and tragically suffering a cerebral stroke, which left her bedridden and exacerbated her conditions, causing her to remain in her room.

She has suffered paralysis in right leg and right arm.

What is Elephantiasis? Elephantiasis is a disease which causes a person's body to swell up to huge proportions. It is caused by an obstruction of the lymphatic system, which causes fluid to be accumulated in certain areas of the body. Arms and legs are often the two main areas which are affected. Some cases of the disease are treated with medicine, which battles the underlying issues. However, many people have surgery.

She has also faced a series of other serious ailments owing to her weight including diabetes, high blood pressure, hypertension and sleep deprivation.

Her request for an Indian visa was initially denied, but she was granted passage after tweeting a plea for help directly to India's foreign minister, who intervened.

Abd El Aty had a long wait as no airlines were willing to fly her due to her health complications.

Prior to her flight, a special bed was created for her in line with the requirements needed to transport her safely to Mumbai.

Special equipment was also installed in the cargo plane in case of an emergency, including a portable ventilator, portable defibrillator, oxygen cylinder, intubation laryngoscope and drugs.

As she approached 78 stone, her family posted a desperate plea online to Egyptian president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi asking for medical assistance.

As a child (left), Ms Aty was diagnosed with elephantiasis which caused her body to swell up and increase her weight dramatically

After hearing about her case, Dr Muffazal Lakdawala offered to carry out the procedure free of charge.

Her request for a visa was initially rejected, prompting Lakdawala in December to tweet a request for help to India's foreign minister Sushma Swaraj.

At the time Swaraj was in hospital awaiting a kidney transplant but was quick to respond with an offer of help.

Ms Aty has had a long wait as no airliners were willing to fly her from Egypt to India due to possible health complications.

Dr Lakdawala previously said: 'Transporting Eman to Mumbai is a challenging task keeping in mind the complexities of her case as she is a high risk patient who has not been able to move or leave the house for the past 25 years.'

Bariatric surgery is a stomach-shrinking bypass procedure carried out on those wanting to lose excessive weight.

It is increasingly common in India, which has a growing problem with obesity, particularly in urban areas.

India is a major destination for medical tourists seeking quality services and no waiting lists at a fraction of the cost of western countries.