There is some truth in Donald Trump's cry of 'fake news' – it is an historical norm
There is some truth in Donald Trump's cry of 'fake news' – it is an historical norm
"Post truth" and "fake news" were popular choices for phrase of the year. We live in now, apparently, in a world where debates and decisions are increasingly removed from facts. Pundits point to the populace’s loss of trust in the mass media which has dropped to its lowest level in history. Part of the blame, they argue, lies with the industry and "fake news". New technologies rapidly propagate lies (now known as "alternative facts"), rumour and gossip instead of accurate information. None of this new. In the late nineteenth century, Jogand-Pages achieved renown as a creator of fake news which included persuading the French Navy to chase imaginary sharks off Marseilles and persuading those with an interest in antiquity to seek out a non-existent Roman city near Geneva. During Roman times, disinformation was rife. Conspirators used fake news about Julius Caesar appointing himself emperor to engender support for his assassination. Subsequently, Augustus used false information about Mark Anthony and Cleopatra to discredit his rival for power. The debate about post truth and fake news is predicated on an important assertion: a golden past where things were different and better. This was never really true. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    14 February 2017   The sun rises behind Tower Bridge in London   PA wire     14 February 2017   Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge visit to RAF base, Cambridgeshire, UK   Rex     14 February 2017   Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge visit to RAF base, Cambridgeshire, UK   Rex     14 February 2017   The Duchess of Cornwall, President of the Royal Voluntary Service, is given roses by RVS volunteer Dave Hancock at a tea party and swing dance at The Trinity Centre in Bristol   PA wire     14 February 2017   The Duchess of Cornwall, President of the Royal Voluntary Service, dances with Graeme Puckett of Hoppin' Mad at a tea party and swing dance at The Trinity Centre in Bristol   PA wire     14 February 2017   The scene outside Topshop in the Oracle shopping centre in Reading, Berkshire, where according to reports a 10-year-old boy died from severe head injuries following an incident involving shop furniture   PA wire     14 February 2017   Creator Nick Ryan examines Machine 9, an electromechanical sound instrument that transforms the movement of 27,000 pieces of space junk into sound in real time, is put on display at the Science Museum in London   PA wire     14 February 2017   Creator Nick Ryan examines Machine 9, an electromechanical sound instrument that transforms the movement of 27,000 pieces of space junk into sound in real time, is put on display at the Science Museum in London   PA wire     14 February 2017   Mayor of London Sadiq Khan poses for a photograph with Tinie Tempah and MTV presenter Laura Whitmore at the offices of Viacom in London where he announced that the MTV European Music Awards will be held in the city   PA wire     14 February 2017   The Tornado locomotive at Appleby station before it pulls the first timetabled main line steam-hauled service for half a century across the Ribblehead viaduct in North Yorkshire   PA wire     14 February 2017   Britain's Queen Elizabeth arrives to officially open the National Cyber Security Centre in London, Britain,   Reuters     14 February 2017   The new National Cyber Crime Security centre in Victoria, central London. The new centre's function is to protect the United Kingdom against cyber-attacks and act as an operational nerve centre   EPA     7 February 2017   A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London   Reuters     7 February 2017   Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice   Getty Images     2 February 2017   The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being  lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete   PA wire     1 February 2017   The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns   PA wire  News, information and opinion has always been designed, in reality, to present events in a certain way to influence decisions and achieve specified outcomes. Casuality flowed in complex ways. In relation to the Spanish American war, newspaper tycoon W.R. Hearst is alleged to have said: "You furnish the pictures, I'll furnish the war." It has always been an exercise in shaping what people think about (agenda) and increasingly what to think about those things (opinion). In his 1922 book , Walter Lippmann identified that news media provides the link between actual events and people’s image of those events. The fundamentals around reportage have remained relatively unaltered over time. News presents itself as fact, an accurate record of events or knowledge that one does not experience directly. But the informational content is always the rendering of recollections and interpretations, filtered through the complex lens of opinion, preconception, world view and motive. If quantum mechanics renders matter ambiguous then news renders concrete events subjective and contestable. What is reported is a function of logistics. It must be known. It must be timely to accommodate the news cycle or schedule. The item must be the right size. Comedian Jerry Seinfeld was astonished that the amount of news of the world every day always exactly fitted the newspaper.  Today, all news must neatly fit available time on TV, online constraints or the 140 characters of a tweet. Items must be familiar. Direct and easy to explain or interpret items are preferred. Drama, violence, conflict or the sudden and unexpected attains elevated importance. Events that are personal or can be humanised through individuals or increasingly a star journalist are favoured. Items involving well known individuals, nations or organisations are more newsworthy. Commercial pressures or competition between rival media or individual reporters also influence coverage. The need to attract and maintain subscribers and advertising is constant. Even the most modern of media is slave to the need for revenue. The language may be different – page views; eyeballs; clickbait – but the focus on attracting advertisers is constant. News has always been set against a wall paper of ideology. As author Helen Swaffer wrote: “freedom of the press…is freedom to print such of the proprietor's prejudices as the advertisers won't object to”. The advent of electronic media, especially online platforms, has not altered these basic dynamics. It has weakened the ability to enforce authority, power and influence vertically from the top to the public. New media has encouraged horizontal fragmentation allowing the same event to be packaged for individual tribes, targeting specific pre-existing biases. Information can now be shared within networks where credibility is based on member’s mutual trust rather than rigorous fact checking. But journalistic practices, now cited with nostalgia, were never been free of bias and agendas where selective use of data buttressed a viewpoint. Canadian media theorist Marshall McLuhan argued that media’s purpose was to create artificial perceptions and arbitrary values.   John McCain says 'attacking free press' is how dictators get started Self-referential in nature, news is what is reported and what is reported is news. News and truth are fundamentally different concepts. Mankind invents rules to live and think by. News is one of these rules, being a central element in framing information. It signals an event or presents information or knowledge in a specific way to create a desired picture of reality to influence how citizens think and act. Control of news has always been politically crucial in establishing issues and manufacturing consensus about necessary actions or policies. In George Orwell’s novel , newspeak, with its constantly changing vocabulary designed to suppress undesirable concepts and limit freedom of expression, is a mechanism for controlling the population. Command of the news and means of communication defines power more precisely than the monopoly of capital and the means of production. The ideals of a free unbiased Fifth Estate and correct information which provides the basis for considered policies and electoral decisions has always been and will be an illusion, like many other human constructs. The debate is and always will be about who controls the news, information and shapes agendas. As Friedrich Nietzsche put it: “all things are subject to interpretation whichever interpretation prevails at a given time is a function of power and not truth”. More about: Donald Trump fake news alternative facts Comments

"Post truth" and "fake news" were popular choices for phrase of the year.

We live in now, apparently, in a world where debates and decisions are increasingly removed from facts. Pundits point to the populace’s loss of trust in the mass media which has dropped to its lowest level in history. Part of the blame, they argue, lies with the industry and "fake news". New technologies rapidly propagate lies (now known as "alternative facts"), rumour and gossip instead of accurate information.

None of this new. In the late nineteenth century, Jogand-Pages achieved renown as a creator of fake news which included persuading the French Navy to chase imaginary sharks off Marseilles and persuading those with an interest in antiquity to seek out a non-existent Roman city near Geneva. During Roman times, disinformation was rife. Conspirators used fake news about Julius Caesar appointing himself emperor to engender support for his assassination. Subsequently, Augustus used false information about Mark Anthony and Cleopatra to discredit his rival for power.

The debate about post truth and fake news is predicated on an important assertion: a golden past where things were different and better. This was never really true.

UK news in pictures







16 show all UK news in pictures





























1/16 14 February 2017 The sun rises behind Tower Bridge in London PA wire

2/16 14 February 2017 Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge visit to RAF base, Cambridgeshire, UK Rex

3/16 14 February 2017 Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge visit to RAF base, Cambridgeshire, UK Rex

4/16 14 February 2017 The Duchess of Cornwall, President of the Royal Voluntary Service, is given roses by RVS volunteer Dave Hancock at a tea party and swing dance at The Trinity Centre in Bristol PA wire

5/16 14 February 2017 The Duchess of Cornwall, President of the Royal Voluntary Service, dances with Graeme Puckett of Hoppin' Mad at a tea party and swing dance at The Trinity Centre in Bristol PA wire

6/16 14 February 2017 The scene outside Topshop in the Oracle shopping centre in Reading, Berkshire, where according to reports a 10-year-old boy died from severe head injuries following an incident involving shop furniture PA wire

7/16 14 February 2017 Creator Nick Ryan examines Machine 9, an electromechanical sound instrument that transforms the movement of 27,000 pieces of space junk into sound in real time, is put on display at the Science Museum in London PA wire

8/16 14 February 2017 Creator Nick Ryan examines Machine 9, an electromechanical sound instrument that transforms the movement of 27,000 pieces of space junk into sound in real time, is put on display at the Science Museum in London PA wire

9/16 14 February 2017 Mayor of London Sadiq Khan poses for a photograph with Tinie Tempah and MTV presenter Laura Whitmore at the offices of Viacom in London where he announced that the MTV European Music Awards will be held in the city PA wire

10/16 14 February 2017 The Tornado locomotive at Appleby station before it pulls the first timetabled main line steam-hauled service for half a century across the Ribblehead viaduct in North Yorkshire PA wire

11/16 14 February 2017 Britain's Queen Elizabeth arrives to officially open the National Cyber Security Centre in London, Britain, Reuters

12/16 14 February 2017 The new National Cyber Crime Security centre in Victoria, central London. The new centre's function is to protect the United Kingdom against cyber-attacks and act as an operational nerve centre EPA

13/16 7 February 2017 A bus drives past a mural depicting US President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May, in London Reuters

14/16 7 February 2017 Claire Blackman, the wife of imprisoned marine Alexander Blackman arrives for the first day of his appeal hearing at Royal Courts of Justice Getty Images

15/16 2 February 2017 The final deck piece of the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth of Forth, sits on a barge ahead of it being lifted into position. Once the operation to start the lift begins, it will take around four hours to complete PA wire

16/16 1 February 2017 The last airworthy Vulcan bomber 'XH558', which last flew in 2015, is towed out of its hangar at Robin Hood Airport, in Doncaster, prior to being put in indefinite storage due to financial concerns PA wire

News, information and opinion has always been designed, in reality, to present events in a certain way to influence decisions and achieve specified outcomes. Casuality flowed in complex ways. In relation to the Spanish American war, newspaper tycoon W.R. Hearst is alleged to have said: "You furnish the pictures, I'll furnish the war."

It has always been an exercise in shaping what people think about (agenda) and increasingly what to think about those things (opinion). In his 1922 book Public Opinion, Walter Lippmann identified that news media provides the link between actual events and people’s image of those events.

The fundamentals around reportage have remained relatively unaltered over time.

News presents itself as fact, an accurate record of events or knowledge that one does not experience directly. But the informational content is always the rendering of recollections and interpretations, filtered through the complex lens of opinion, preconception, world view and motive. If quantum mechanics renders matter ambiguous then news renders concrete events subjective and contestable.

What is reported is a function of logistics. It must be known. It must be timely to accommodate the news cycle or schedule. The item must be the right size. Comedian Jerry Seinfeld was astonished that the amount of news of the world every day always exactly fitted the newspaper. Today, all news must neatly fit available time on TV, online constraints or the 140 characters of a tweet.

Items must be familiar. Direct and easy to explain or interpret items are preferred. Drama, violence, conflict or the sudden and unexpected attains elevated importance. Events that are personal or can be humanised through individuals or increasingly a star journalist are favoured. Items involving well known individuals, nations or organisations are more newsworthy.

Trump accuses 'dishonest media' of fake news at campaign rally

Commercial pressures or competition between rival media or individual reporters also influence coverage. The need to attract and maintain subscribers and advertising is constant. Even the most modern of media is slave to the need for revenue. The language may be different – page views; eyeballs; clickbait – but the focus on attracting advertisers is constant.

News has always been set against a wall paper of ideology. As author Helen Swaffer wrote: “freedom of the press…is freedom to print such of the proprietor's prejudices as the advertisers won't object to”.

The advent of electronic media, especially online platforms, has not altered these basic dynamics. It has weakened the ability to enforce authority, power and influence vertically from the top to the public. New media has encouraged horizontal fragmentation allowing the same event to be packaged for individual tribes, targeting specific pre-existing biases. Information can now be shared within networks where credibility is based on member’s mutual trust rather than rigorous fact checking. But journalistic practices, now cited with nostalgia, were never been free of bias and agendas where selective use of data buttressed a viewpoint. Canadian media theorist Marshall McLuhan argued that media’s purpose was to create artificial perceptions and arbitrary values.

Self-referential in nature, news is what is reported and what is reported is news. News and truth are fundamentally different concepts. Mankind invents rules to live and think by. News is one of these rules, being a central element in framing information. It signals an event or presents information or knowledge in a specific way to create a desired picture of reality to influence how citizens think and act.

Control of news has always been politically crucial in establishing issues and manufacturing consensus about necessary actions or policies. In George Orwell’s novel 1984, newspeak, with its constantly changing vocabulary designed to suppress undesirable concepts and limit freedom of expression, is a mechanism for controlling the population. Command of the news and means of communication defines power more precisely than the monopoly of capital and the means of production.

The ideals of a free unbiased Fifth Estate and correct information which provides the basis for considered policies and electoral decisions has always been and will be an illusion, like many other human constructs. The debate is and always will be about who controls the news, information and shapes agendas. As Friedrich Nietzsche put it: “all things are subject to interpretation whichever interpretation prevails at a given time is a function of power and not truth”.

Satyajit Das is a former financier. His latest book is Age of Stagnation (also published in some countries as A Banquet of Consequences). He is also author of Traders Guns and Money and Extreme Money