Paris protesters tear gassed in clashes with police
Protesters are tear gassed in Paris in clashes with police


Anti-racism protesters in Paris were tear gassed by police after violence broke out at the demonstration.

Thousands took to the streets in the French capital in support of a 22-year-old black man who was allegedly raped by a police officer with a truncheon.

Two officers were injured and 13 people were arrested following clashes between police and bottle-throwing demonstrators at the rally on Saturday.

Scroll down for video

Thousands marched in the streets of the French capital in support of a 22-year-old black man who was allegedly raped by a police officer with a baton

Two police officers were injured and 13 people were arrested following clashes at the protest on Saturday

Protesters were seen running after police sprayed teargas during the demonstration

Footage shows an officer being knocked to the ground after an object was thrown at police by protesters, as well as tear gas being fired at demonstrators.

The skirmishes marked the latest in a string of protests around the alleged rape that have degenerated into violence.

After an apparent video of the attack circulated online, angry youths torched cars and clashed with police for several days in suburbs around Paris.

The violence was reminiscent of riots in 2005 that resulted in around 10,000 cars being burned and 6,000 people arrested.

At the rally on Saturday, protesters carried banners reading 'Justice for Theo', the name of the alleged victim.

One police officer has been charge with rape over the incident, while three others were charged with aggravated assault. All deny intentional wrongdoing.

Violence broke out at what had been a largely peaceful demonstration on Saturday

Anti-riot police officers detained a demonstrator following scuffles at the protest

Anti-riot police wearing protective gear lined up with their shields in Paris on Saturday

Theo, whose surname has not been released, was hospitalised for two weeks after the reported attack in his hometown of Aulnay-sous-Bois northeast of Paris

Theo, whose surname has not been released, was hospitalised for two weeks after the reported attack in his hometown of Aulnay-sous-Bois northeast of Paris.

Ex-footballer Lilian Thuram was among the Paris marchers Saturday calling for justice.

He said: 'Living in the public space is not the same, depending on the color of your skin. We're in 2017. This is a real shame.'

Demonstrator Hamid Djudi, 57, expressed frustration Saturday that successive French governments have failed to prevent abuse and discrimination.

He said: 'In the 1980s, we were protesting racism. I was 20 years old in the `80s. I used to face (police) controls four times a day.

Protesters carried banners reading 'Justice for Theo' as they expressed their support for the 22-year-old

Police installed a security perimeter around the Place de la Republique for the rally

Police deployed tear gas on the demonstrators. The skirmishes marked the latest in a string of protests around the alleged rape that have degenerated into violence

A protester aims a brick towards police officers during clashes at the protest on Saturday

'History repeats itself. My own children are facing the same troubles One of them is an engineer, the other is a doctor, and my daughter is at the Institute of Political Studies.

'And they are controlled by police every time they go out of our building. This is not normal. That's why I decided to come here. To protest for my children.'

Protesters argue that Theo is just one example of many young men from ethnic minorities unfairly targeted by French police in ID checks and sometimes subject to abuse.

Police installed a security perimeter around the Place de la Republique for the rally.

Far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen had urged the government to ban the protest out of respect for police.

Tear gas was sprayed at protesters after violence broke out. It comes after angry youths torched cars and clashed with police for several days in suburbs around Paris

Protesters clashed with anti-riot officers armed with shields and batons during the protest

Police officers lined up as the anti-racism demonstrations turned violent on Saturday

Protesters argue that Theo is just one example of many young men from ethnic minorities unfairly targeted by French police in ID checks

A protester was pictured throwing a rock towards a line of anti-riot police officers

Police argue that Theo's injuries are consistent with an accident, in which his tracksuit bottoms fell down and the baton penetrated him.

It was not until the patrol brought the man back to their station that they noticed he was bleeding, and called paramedics.

The local prosecutor's office said the police had stopped a group of around a dozen people 'after hearing calls characteristic of lookouts at drug dealing sites'.

During the operation they 'attempted to arrest a 22-year-old man'. When he resisted, they used tear gas, and 'one of them used an expandable baton,' the prosecutor's office said.

Demonstrators at the rally covered their faces as they protested against the alleged attack

Far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen had urged the government to ban the protest out of respect for police

Anti-riot police officers detaining a protester. A total of 13 people were arrested at the rally

Anti-riot officers armed with shields lined up as protesters clashed with police

Thousands of protesters gathered at the Place de la Republique at the anti-racism rally