Unilever Bid Follows Familiar Playbook for Warren Buffett and 3G
Unilever Bid Follows Familiar Playbook for Warren Buffett and 3G 
Biography Julie Jargon @juliejargon Julie.Jargon@wsj.com Biography Nicole Friedman @nicolefriedman Google+ nicole.friedman@wsj.com Biography Annie Gasparro @annie_gasparro annie.gasparro@wsj.com Brazilian private-equity firm 3G Capital Partners L.P. and billionaire investor Warren Buffett are creating a global food and consumer-goods empire by following a simple formula: buy a company that is concentrated in one market, combine it with another somewhere else and then spread the products across the world. On Friday they took their biggest swing yet when Kraft Heinz Co., which is partly owned by 3G and Mr. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said it made a $143 billion approach to take over U.K. consumer products... Most Popular Videos  Disney Cuts Ties to YouTube Superstar PewDiePie  Trump Invites Supporter On Stage at Florida Rally  Exploring the Last Frank Lloyd Wright Homes in Their Original Owners' Hands   BeatsX Review: Apple’s Other Wireless Earbuds    Trump Addresses Supporters at Rally in Florida  Most Popular Articles      Opinion: Trump Can’t Build a Border Wall Without the Real Estate        Opinion: Scott Pruitt’s Back-to-Basics Agenda for the EPA        Revised Travel Ban Would Cover Same Seven Countries        Jared Kushner Delivers Critique of CNN to Time Warner Executive        Warren Buffett Lists Longtime Laguna Beach Home for $11 Million

Brazilian private-equity firm 3G Capital Partners L.P. and billionaire investor Warren Buffett are creating a global food and consumer-goods empire by following a simple formula: buy a company that is concentrated in one market, combine it with another somewhere else and then spread the products across the world.

On Friday they took their biggest swing yet when Kraft Heinz Co., which is partly owned by 3G and Mr. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said it made a $143 billion approach to take over U.K. consumer products...