After turbulent first weeks in the White House Donald Trump launches 2020 re-election bid in Florida
After turbulent first weeks in the White House Donald Trump launches 2020 re-election bid in Florida
Trump supporter salutes cardboard cut-out of president every day ene Huber, the supporter who was invited onto the stage by Donald Trump, said he has a six feet cardboard cut-out of Donald Trump which he salutes every day. "I was the first one in line here at four in the morning. I was interviewed by the news people. President Trump must have seen me on TV," he said on CNN. "He said he loves me. He fights for us every day. He didn't have to do this for us. He is 70 years old and has a lovely family." Allies 'treating America unfairly' oward the end of his speech, Mr Trump turned to military matters. He asked the veterans in the crowd - and there we're hundreds - to raise their hands. Mr Trump said the US had been fighting battles that were not its to fight, and accused allies of treating America unfairly. "Many of the countries in Nato, many of the countries that we protect, many of these are very rich countries- they're not paying their bills," he said. he president ended his speech by discussing the values Americans had "fought and died together" for. The local police said 9,000 people attended the rally, and they spilled back out of the hanger and began the long walks back to the far flung lots where they parked their cars. 'Spirit of optimism' sweeping America Mr Trump said that despite impressions to the contrary, "a spirit of optimism is sweeping the country". The tone and content of much of the speech was indistinguishable from rallies during the campaign. There was a sense of deja vu as Mr Trump complained the media never showed his crowds on television. He even brought a man he had seen do a TV interview ahead of the rally on stage to thank him for saying "the nicest things". he president ordered the secret service to allow the man,  Gene Huber, to take the stage saying, "we know our people." After the supporter took the podium and said a few kind words the president remarked, "a star is born". There were updates to Mr Trump's stump speech, however. He railed against the ruling that blocked his travel ban, and vowed to "keep our country safe" despite any roadblocks placed in his way. Mr Trump pledged to pursue "peace through strength", by updating America's military Arsenal- after boasting that he had renegotiated a contract for new fighter jets to save taxpayers "billions". Trump rounds on the media "I'm here because I want to be among my friends and among the people," Mr Trump said shortly after taking the podium. He was introduced by his wife Melania, who led the crowd in a recitation of the Lord's Prayer. The president made quite an entrance, with Air Force One pulling slowly into view and Elton John's Candle in the Wind blaring, followed by Lee Greenwood's Proud to be American. t was while supporters sang along to that patriotic ballad that the president and First Lady emerged. Mr Obama spoke of his "great victory" in Florida during the campaign before launching into an anti-media diatribe. "I also want to speak to you without the filter of the fake news media," he said, noting that even Thomas Jefferson had criticized the press. "The White House is running so smoothly, and believe me, I and we inherited one hell of a mess," he said, reverting back to the theme from his press conference last week. Supporters and protesters gather ahead of rally An enormous and passionate crowd awaited Mr Trump in Melbourne. There were protesters numbering in the hundreds, but as they carried their placards toward the event they passed thousands of Trump supporters waiting in a seemingly-endless line. The reaction to man with a sign reading "Muslims are welcome here" was particularly fierce. "I hope the terrorists rape your family first," one woman shouted. A woman with a sign supporting legal abortion was greeted with cries of "murder, murder!" In line, conspiracy theories mingled with praise for the president. One woman said Mr Trump would have won the popular vote in a landslide if illegal immigrants had not been paid to vote, speaking as though it were an undisputed fact. ince Calvano, 57, said it was time for a second American civil war. "When Trump does anything they scream like hell just like when Obama did anything we screamed like hell. Let's go around behind the shed and may the best man win," he said. Mr Calvano said he left the workforce for the past eight years because he refused to pay taxes to Barack Obama. Now, with Mr Trump in office, he's looking for work. His only criticism of Mr Trump is that he might not go far enough. "I think we should ban all immigrants until we can sort this thing out," he said. Mary Nail, a former local politician, said she came out to be "part of history" and to send a message to the US media. She said the protesters had every right to speak out but should "give him some time." "He's standing up for the country and the constitution and freedom," she said. Morris J Lewis, 74, said he believes Mr Trump was sent to America by God. "As soon as I heard him speak I thought, this is the man," he said "I see the work of the devil out here," he said, indicating the protesters.

"I was the first one in line here at four in the morning. I was interviewed by the news people. President Trump must have seen me on TV," he said on CNN.

"He said he loves me. He fights for us every day. He didn't have to do this for us. He is 70 years old and has a lovely family."

Allies 'treating America unfairly'

Toward the end of his speech, Mr Trump turned to military matters. He asked the veterans in the crowd - and there we're hundreds - to raise their hands.

Mr Trump said the US had been fighting battles that were not its to fight, and accused allies of treating America unfairly.