Paris clashes: 13 arrested as scuffles break out after protest against police brutality
Paris clashes: 13 arrested as scuffles break out after protest against police brutality 
hirteen people were arrested as clashes broke out in Paris yesterday (Sat) on the fringes of a protest against police brutality following the alleged assault of a young black man earlier this month. As an estimated 2,300 protesters dispersed, including the footballer Lilian Thuram , small groups broke away and hurled rocks at helmeted riot police, who deflected most of them with their shields. According to some reports, one officer was injured but was not believed to have been seriously hurt.   More than 250 people have been arrested in almost nightly unrest in the poverty-stricken suburbs since the 22-year-old, named only as Théo, was allegedly sodomised with a truncheon on February 2. n recent days, the protests have moved into central areas of Paris amid fears of a repeat of the 2005 riots in France, sparked by the deaths of two youths who were electrocuted when they fled from police into a power station. Police set up a security cordon around the demonstration on Saturday in Place de la République, in the heart of the city, as a helicopter hovered overhead. Demonstrators carried banners reading “Justice for Théo”. The local metro station was closed and the sale of alcohol in the surrounding area was banned for the day. Protesters said young black and Arab men faced regular police harassment. Dominque Sopo, the head of the anti-racism group SOS Racisme, said: “What happened to Théo isn’t an isolated case. It’s a structural problem of police violence that France must have the maturity to tackle.” e said he was disappointed after meeting the prime minister, Bernard Cazeneuve. “No concrete solution has been proposed and no measures were proposed were taken up.” Anti-racism groups are calling for a change in policing policy and the creation of police units specifically assigned to troubled neighbourhoods who can improve relations with local communities. For many French people, crime-ridden suburbs are no-go areas and police complain of facing frequent attacks from drug gangs. Marine Le Pen, the far-Right presidential candidate , had urged the government to ban the protest out of respect for police who are ensuring public safety during France’s state of emergency, declared after terrorist attacks. ENDS

Thirteen people were arrested as clashes broke out in Paris yesterday (Sat) on the fringes of a protest against police brutality following the alleged assault of a young black man earlier this month.

As an estimated 2,300 protesters dispersed, including the footballer Lilian Thuram, small groups broke away and hurled rocks at helmeted riot police, who deflected most of them with their shields.

According to some reports, one officer was injured but was not believed to have been seriously hurt. More than 250 people have been arrested in almost nightly unrest in the poverty-stricken suburbs since the 22-year-old, named only as Théo, was allegedly sodomised with a truncheon on February 2.