News quiz: Location, location, location

This week’s quiz is all about people, places and things — but mostly places. But first, the high and low from last week’s results. Nearly everyone knew that President Trump was tweeting about Nordstrom when he said his daughter Ivanka was being treated “so unfairly” — 92 percent answered that one correctly. The world’s largest refugee camp is in Kenya. Just 25 percent got that one right. Ready to get started? If the new quiz does not appear below, click here . North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's estranged half brother was assassinated in this city's airport: Bali. Kuala Lumpur. Munich. Seoul.   The Pentagon said Russian aircraft buzzed a U.S. destroyer patrolling in this body of water last week: The Baltic Sea. The Black Sea. The Red Sea. The Arabian Sea.   "Mars 2117" is this country's new plan to build a mini-city on the planet: China. The United Arab Emirates. Kazakhstan. The United States.   In a 77-minute news conference Thursday, who did President Trump say were "very honorable people"? His Cabinet picks. Veterans. The "Fox & Friends" morning show. His children.   Which breed won best in show at the Westminster Kennel Club dog show? A German shepherd. A Dalmatian. An Irish setter. A Scottish terrier.   Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. attended the grand opening of a Trump-branded golf resort in: Dubai. Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Scotland. Montevideo, Uruguay.   The Supreme Court in this state ruled against a florist who refused to provide flowers for a same-sex wedding. Indiana. Ohio. California. Washington.   At the Grammy's, actress Laverne Cox told people to "please Google ‘Gavin Grimm.’" Who is Gavin Grimm? A Democratic member of Congress. A Republican member of Congress. A character in a new movie she stars in. A transgender high school student.   More than 20 states have denounced President Trump's now-frozen travel ban. But this state was the first to ask the appeals court involved to restore it: Florida. Colorado. Texas. Arizona.   What sparked two weeks of protests in major French cities? The alleged rape of a black man by police. The fatal police shooting of a refugee. An increase in school fees. A rally by a far-right-wing party.                   Related

Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.

You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.

You’re all set!