27 Songs From 2007 You Definitely Had On Your iPod
27 Songs From 2007 You Definitely Had On Your iPod
“ Big Girls Don’t Cry ” - Fergie That one person you really had to move on from. “ Thnks Fr Th Mmrs ” - Fall Out Boy The year when Pete Wentz was bae. “ Irreplaceable ” - Beyoncé The sassiest breakup anthem of the year. “ Untouched ” - The Veronicas Trying to perfect the verses without taking huge breaths. “ Umbrella ” - Rihanna Blasting it loud and dancing with your friends when they were staying over. “ Buttons ” - The Pussycat Dolls Trying to act a lot sexier than you really were. “ Girlfriend ” - Avril Lavigne Singing along to the ridiculously catchy chorus even if you weren’t that into the song. “ Famous Last Words ” - My Chemical Romance Being an angsty teen and knowing it wasn’t just a phase. “ The Sweet Escape ” - Gwen Stefani ft. Akon The Harajuku Girls. “ Lying Is The Most Fun a Girl Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes Off ” - Panic! At The Disco Testosterone boys and harlequin girls. “ U + Ur Hand ” - Pink The best “fuck you” to the boy that broke your heart. “ Don’t Hold Back ” - The Potbelleez Music festivals and every ad on TV. “ Face Down ” - Red Jumpsuit Apparatus Feeling angsty af. “ Hey There Delilah ” - Plain White T’s Never getting that chorus out of your head. “ Stronger ” - Kanye West Everyone attempting their own autotuned versions of the start. “ Where I Stood ” - Missy Higgins Basically every CW show using it during breakup scenes. “ Waiting On The World To Change ” - John Mayer When John Mayer wasn’t as douchey. “ It Ends Tonight ” - All American Rejects Feeling all emosh and letting it out while singing this ballad. “ Paralyzer ” - Finger Eleven That nostalgic music feel, but never remembering the actual band name. “ Makes Me Wonder ” - Maroon 5 Remembering how good was. “ Cupid’s Chokehold ” - Gym Class Heroes ft Patrick Stump The days where Fueled By Ramen ruled the lands. “ Grace Kelly ” - Mika Singing along and screeching trying to reach those high notes. “ What Goes Around… Comes Around ” - Justin Timberlake The fact that “Cry Me A River” is a better revenge track. “ What I’ve Done ” - Linkin Park Feeling that raw rock energy coursing through you. “ Lips Of An Angel ” - Hinder The one good song they had. “ Candyman ” - Christina Aguilera Tbh, the last good banger Xtina released. Come back mom. “ Straight Lines ” - Silverchair The fact Silverchair’s comeback didn’t last nearly long enough.   Beyoncé's Grammys Dress Had An Interesting Detail You...    People Are Applying Their Makeup With Condoms And I...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.