'Blind Sheikh' linked to 1993 World Trade Center bombing dies in US federal prison
'Blind Sheikh' linked to 1993 World Trade Center bombing dies in US federal prison
Shares               Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, a blind Egyptian cleric serving a life sentence in the United States for conspiring to blow up New York City landmarks, died early Saturday morning, federal officials said. According to a statement from the U.S. Federal Bureau of Prisons , Rahman died Saturday at approximately 5:40 a.m. ET "from natural causes after a long health battle with diabetes and coronary artery disease." He was 78. His next of kin has been notified of his death, the statement said. Rahman, known as "the blind sheikh," was sentenced to life in prison in 1996 for his advisory role in a plot to blow up landmarks, including the United Nations , and several bridges and tunnels throughout New York City. He was also linked to a bombing at the World Trade Center in February 1993 that killed six people and injured more than 1,000 others. Rahman, a veteran of Egypt's Islamist movement , entered the United States in 1990. He had been jailed in Egypt for allegedly helping to inspire the assassination of President Anwar Sadat. Using evidence collected by an Egyptian informant, the U.S. government prosecuted Rahman for conspiracy in connection with the 1993 World Trade Center attack. After the bombing, the U.S. government recorded the sheikh encouraging further violence against targets in New York and New Jersey. Rahman and nine of his followers were arrested in June 1993. Eight years later, on Sept. 11, 2001, Al Qaeda attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon , killing nearly 3,000 people. Rahman was kept in federal prisons since 1993, most recently at the Federal Medical Center in Butner, North Carolina. In December 2006, Rahman suffered a "medical emergency" at the federal prison in Springfield, Missouri, and the FBI warned at the time that his death could lead Al Qaeda to launch terror attacks against the United States in reprisal. According to an FBI bulletin obtained by ABC News at the time, Rahman began to spit up blood on Dec. 6 and was rushed from prison to St. John's Regional Hospital to receive emergency treatment. "He accepted a needed transfusion to replace lost blood. While he was under examination, medical authorities also discovered a tumor on his liver," the FBI bulletin noted.   Shares                  'Blind Sheikh' linked to 1993 World Trade Center bombing dies in US federal prison   Trump says he will get Gulf states to pay for 'safe zones' in Syria   Congress members met with crowds and protests at town halls   Man charged in triple shooting that killed Chicago toddler   At least 4 dead as fierce Southern California storm causes flash floods   McCain slams Trump in Munich speech without using his name   Fighters scrambled to intercept plane near Mar-a-Lago   Autopsy on N. Korean inconclusive as 4th person arrested   Mark Cuban wears no. 46 NBA jersey in nod to Trump feud   Trump sons open Dubai golf club as namesake now US president   Earth has a new continent called 'Zealandia'   Biologists find weird cave life that may be 50,000 years old   Hundreds of DC Zika virus tests to be re-examined after 'technical issues'   After son's suicide, dad starts 'The Kindness Challenge'   Columbia University accidentally sent acceptance letters to 277 applicants   James Earl Jones, Donald Glover cast in 'Lion King' remake   Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd open up about parenting   'World News Tonight’s' David Muir on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

Sheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, a blind Egyptian cleric serving a life sentence in the United States for conspiring to blow up New York City landmarks, died early Saturday morning, federal officials said.

According to a statement from the U.S. Federal Bureau of Prisons, Rahman died Saturday at approximately 5:40 a.m. ET "from natural causes after a long health battle with diabetes and coronary artery disease." He was 78.

His next of kin has been notified of his death, the statement said.

Rahman, known as "the blind sheikh," was sentenced to life in prison in 1996 for his advisory role in a plot to blow up landmarks, including the United Nations, and several bridges and tunnels throughout New York City. He was also linked to a bombing at the World Trade Center in February 1993 that killed six people and injured more than 1,000 others.

Rahman, a veteran of Egypt's Islamist movement, entered the United States in 1990. He had been jailed in Egypt for allegedly helping to inspire the assassination of President Anwar Sadat.

Using evidence collected by an Egyptian informant, the U.S. government prosecuted Rahman for conspiracy in connection with the 1993 World Trade Center attack. After the bombing, the U.S. government recorded the sheikh encouraging further violence against targets in New York and New Jersey. Rahman and nine of his followers were arrested in June 1993.

Eight years later, on Sept. 11, 2001, Al Qaeda attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, killing nearly 3,000 people.

Rahman was kept in federal prisons since 1993, most recently at the Federal Medical Center in Butner, North Carolina.

In December 2006, Rahman suffered a "medical emergency" at the federal prison in Springfield, Missouri, and the FBI warned at the time that his death could lead Al Qaeda to launch terror attacks against the United States in reprisal.

According to an FBI bulletin obtained by ABC News at the time, Rahman began to spit up blood on Dec. 6 and was rushed from prison to St. John's Regional Hospital to receive emergency treatment.

"He accepted a needed transfusion to replace lost blood. While he was under examination, medical authorities also discovered a tumor on his liver," the FBI bulletin noted.

ABC News' Rym Momtaz and Benjamin Stein contributed to this report. The Associated Press also contributed to this report.