UK sends stress balls to US scientists worried about Donald Trump
UK sends stress balls to US scientists worried about Donald Trump
Stress balls with the message ‘stay calm and research’ have been sent to US scientists by the Research Councils UK amid concern over the impact of Donald Trump’s presidency. Scientific bodies, academics and others have all expressed concern about the Republican billionaire’s attitude to science, particularly about climate change. There are also fears that Mr Trump’s plans to cut taxes and spend large amounts of money on the military, a wall between the US and Mexico and other projects could leave little left to pay for research. His controversial immigration ban on people from seven mainly Muslim countries is also seen as retrograde step because of the need for scientists to collaborate.   Trump threatens ‘very future of our democracy’, top scientist warns The bright red stress balls, which bear an image of the royal crown, were delivered by staff promoting British science at the American Association for the Advancement of Science’s annual meeting in Boston. They echo a British poster made during World War II which urged people to “ Keep calm and carry on ”. It was designed for use in the event of a German invasion, so was never actually displayed in public during the war. A source close to the stress ball campaign told that “typical British humour” was being deployed as part of efforts to promote UK science. “We want something that people will keep on their desk, so it has to be useful or funny,” the insider said. “We went with funny.” Some scientists in the US may see it as gallows humour. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and abortion   Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March   Getty     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images  The president of the AAAS, Professor Barbara Schaal, described a Trump administration ban on scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency from speaking publicly about their work as “chilling” at the opening of the annual meeting. Trump officials’ use of phrases like “alternative facts” have also sparked concern. In April, there are plans in the US and around the world plan to hold a March for Science because of concerns that politicians like Mr Trump and many in the public no longer trust scientific research. More about: Donald Trump Science climate change Global Warming march for science AAAS UK Research Councils Comments

Stress balls with the message ‘stay calm and research’ have been sent to US scientists by the Research Councils UK amid concern over the impact of Donald Trump’s presidency.

Scientific bodies, academics and others have all expressed concern about the Republican billionaire’s attitude to science, particularly about climate change.

There are also fears that Mr Trump’s plans to cut taxes and spend large amounts of money on the military, a wall between the US and Mexico and other projects could leave little left to pay for research. His controversial immigration ban on people from seven mainly Muslim countries is also seen as retrograde step because of the need for scientists to collaborate.

The bright red stress balls, which bear an image of the royal crown, were delivered by staff promoting British science at the American Association for the Advancement of Science’s annual meeting in Boston.

They echo a British poster made during World War II which urged people to “Keep calm and carry on”. It was designed for use in the event of a German invasion, so was never actually displayed in public during the war.

A source close to the stress ball campaign told The Independent that “typical British humour” was being deployed as part of efforts to promote UK science.

“We want something that people will keep on their desk, so it has to be useful or funny,” the insider said. “We went with funny.”

Some scientists in the US may see it as gallows humour.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







10 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued

















1/10 Trump and abortion Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March Getty

2/10 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

3/10 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

4/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

5/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

6/10 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

7/10 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

8/10 Trump and the media White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC Getty Images

9/10 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

10/10 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

The president of the AAAS, Professor Barbara Schaal, described a Trump administration ban on scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency from speaking publicly about their work as “chilling” at the opening of the annual meeting.

Trump officials’ use of phrases like “alternative facts” have also sparked concern.

In April, there are plans in the US and around the world plan to hold a March for Science because of concerns that politicians like Mr Trump and many in the public no longer trust scientific research.