Trump FL Campaign Rally Coordinator: 'This Is His 1st Re-Election Rally'

Trump FL Campaign Rally Coordinator: 'This Is His 1st Re-Election Rally' // // // Tony Ledbetter, the coordinator of President Donald Trump's campaign rally Saturday in Melbourne, Fla., said the event would be the president's "first re-election rally." Speaking in the hours before Trump's event, Ledbetter, chairman of the Volusia County Republican Executive Committee, said he was excited for the event to take place. He coordinated over 9,000 volunteers and supporters to organize the rally. Getting ready to leave for Melbourne, Florida. See you all soon! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 18, 2017 According to a recent Fox News poll , Trump's approval rating based on his job performance is at 48 percent, compared to a 47 percent disapproval rating. Ledbetter said he believes Trump's rally could increase that momentum. "Today he's speaking to the American people," he said. "When he had the news conference the other day, he was speaking to the American people. "The American people want to hear from him. They don't want to hear from ABC, CBS, NBC and The New York Times. His numbers will go up as soon as the mainstream media leave him alone." Watch the full interview above, and be sure to tune in to Fox News Channel at for complete coverage of Trump's campaign rally.

Tony Ledbetter, the coordinator of President Donald Trump's campaign rally Saturday in Melbourne, Fla., said the event would be the president's "first re-election rally."

Speaking in the hours before Trump's event, Ledbetter, chairman of the Volusia County Republican Executive Committee, said he was excited for the event to take place.

He coordinated over 9,000 volunteers and supporters to organize the rally.

Getting ready to leave for Melbourne, Florida. See you all soon! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 18, 2017

Don't Miss a 'First 100 Days' Town Hall on Immigration on Tuesday

RPT: Trump's Border Wall Could Save Americans Nearly $64 Billion Over 10 Years

Mark Cuban's No. 46 Jersey at NBA Celeb Game Was Apparent Jab at Trump

According to a recent Fox News poll, Trump's approval rating based on his job performance is at 48 percent, compared to a 47 percent disapproval rating.

Ledbetter said he believes Trump's rally could increase that momentum.

"Today he's speaking to the American people," he said. "When he had the news conference the other day, he was speaking to the American people.

"The American people want to hear from him. They don't want to hear from ABC, CBS, NBC and The New York Times. His numbers will go up as soon as the mainstream media leave him alone."

Watch the full interview above, and be sure to tune in to Fox News Channel at 5 p.m. ET for complete coverage of Trump's campaign rally.

Sheriff David Clarke on Violent Philly Protests: 'This Stuff Is Disastrous'

Hannity: Media Throwing 'Temper Tantrum' After Being Called Out by Trump

NYC Dad Outraged Over Daughter's 'Anti-Trump' Homework Question