SpaceX sticks daytime rocket landing back on Earth after launch to space
SpaceX sticks daytime rocket landing back on Earth after launch to space
There may come a time when SpaceX landing a rocket stage back on Earth after flying to space isn't news — when we can simply take these science-fiction looking landings for granted and brush them off as no big deal. But today is not that day. The Elon Musk-founded spaceflight company stuck yet another beautiful landing of the first stage of a Falcon 9 rocket after launching an uncrewed Dragon spacecraft toward the International Space Station. The Dragon spacecraft was loaded down with thousands of supplies for NASA. SEE ALSO: Sorry, y'all. SpaceX isn't going to Mars in 2018 The booster set down gently on a pad at Cape Canaveral, Florida about 8 minutes after its 9:39 a.m. ET launch. This landing marks the company's eighth total landing and third back on solid ground. (The other five landed on drone ships in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.) The launch itself was actually history-making as well. The Falcon 9 took off to space from Launch Complex 39A at Kennedy Space Center, marking the first time the pad has been in use since the end of the space shuttle program. The Dragon will now spend about two days in transit on the way to the Space Station, where astronauts onboard will unload the food, science experiments and hardware carried within the Dragon's belly. While SpaceX's landings look like something out of science fiction, they actually have a practical purpose for SpaceX. The private company is hoping to create a fleet of reusable rockets that can fly multiple missions to space instead of the one-and-done method in play among traditional launch providers today. By bringing the boosters back after launches, SpaceX can refurbish them and fly those stages again, greatly reducing the cost of launching to space. Although SpaceX hasn’t yet re-launched a previously flown booster, that could change soon. The private company is planning to fly its first previously flown rocket stage in March, after it reaches Cape Canaveral from Texas, where it was going through testing. SpaceX has had a rough couple years A Falcon 9 rocket exploded not long after launching another Dragon spacecraft for NASA in June 2015, and another accident in September 2016 grounded the company's launches for months during an accident investigation. SpaceX appears to be back on its feet, launching and landing again, but the company should pick up its launch cadence in the months to come. It has an aggressive launch schedule for the next year. The Falcon 9 rocket standing on historic launch pad 39A. Image: spacex flickr Who knows, maybe in a year or even less — assuming SpaceX continues too succeed — these kinds of landings won't be news anymore. But even so, that won't make them any less cool. BONUS: SpaceX's most recent rocket landing looks so sci-fi in new photos

There may come a time when SpaceX landing a rocket stage back on Earth after flying to space isn't news — when we can simply take these science-fiction looking landings for granted and brush them off as no big deal.

But today is not that day.

The Elon Musk-founded spaceflight company stuck yet another beautiful landing of the first stage of a Falcon 9 rocket after launching an uncrewed Dragon spacecraft toward the International Space Station. The Dragon spacecraft was loaded down with thousands of supplies for NASA.

The booster set down gently on a pad at Cape Canaveral, Florida about 8 minutes after its 9:39 a.m. ET launch.

This landing marks the company's eighth total landing and third back on solid ground. (The other five landed on drone ships in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.)

The launch itself was actually history-making as well. The Falcon 9 took off to space from Launch Complex 39A at Kennedy Space Center, marking the first time the pad has been in use since the end of the space shuttle program.

The Dragon will now spend about two days in transit on the way to the Space Station, where astronauts onboard will unload the food, science experiments and hardware carried within the Dragon's belly.

While SpaceX's landings look like something out of science fiction, they actually have a practical purpose for SpaceX. The private company is hoping to create a fleet of reusable rockets that can fly multiple missions to space instead of the one-and-done method in play among traditional launch providers today.

By bringing the boosters back after launches, SpaceX can refurbish them and fly those stages again, greatly reducing the cost of launching to space. Although SpaceX hasn’t yet re-launched a previously flown booster, that could change soon.

The private company is planning to fly its first previously flown rocket stage in March, after it reaches Cape Canaveral from Texas, where it was going through testing.

SpaceX has had a rough couple years

A Falcon 9 rocket exploded not long after launching another Dragon spacecraft for NASA in June 2015, and another accident in September 2016 grounded the company's launches for months during an accident investigation.

SpaceX appears to be back on its feet, launching and landing again, but the company should pick up its launch cadence in the months to come. It has an aggressive launch schedule for the next year.

The Falcon 9 rocket standing on historic launch pad 39A. Image: spacex flickr

Who knows, maybe in a year or even less — assuming SpaceX continues too succeed — these kinds of landings won't be news anymore. But even so, that won't make them any less cool.