Donald Trump yet to make a nomination to 94 per cent of federal roles
Donald Trump yet to make a nomination to 94 per cent of federal roles
Donald Trump has failed to nominate candidates to a number of key positions, falling significantly behind the Obama administration and troubling the President's claim the White House is running like a "well-oiled machine". By March 2009, Barack Obama had made nominations to one in six positions requiring Senate confirmation. With 10 days to go until an exact comparison can be made, the Trump team has made nominations to just one post in 16. As many as 1,200 roles require Senate approval, including Cabinet secretaries, agency chiefs and ambassadors. The Washington Post has compiled a database tracking these appointments, exposing a worrying lag in comparison to previous Presidents. Just 14 of the positions, or 2.5 per cent, had been confirmed by the Senate at the time of writing. A further 20 are awaiting confirmation, while the remaining 515 (or 94 per cent) are yet to have any nominees put forward by the Trump administration. The process has also been marred by withdrawals and resignations: last week, Mr Trump lost more nominees than he put forward. In a high-profile embarrassment for the Trump team, Michael Flynn resigned as national security adviser after it was revealed he had discussed forthcoming sanctions with the Russian ambassador to the US, and then denied it in public statements. Vincent Viola, the billionaire trader and veteran who was Mr Trump's first pick to head up the US Army, withdrew his nomination rather than divest from conflicting business interests. Allegations of domestic abuse and mistreatment of workers at his fast foot chain likewise caused Andy Puzder to withdraw from his nomination to the Labour Secretary post. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and abortion   Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March   Getty     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images  There are several hundred other positions which do not need approval, but still require Mr Trump to put forward a nominee: many of these are internal White House roles. Thousands more appointments must be made within federal organs by senior members of the Trump team. The nominations process is never speedy: as noted, the Obama administration had only made a minority of federal nominations at this stage in 2009. But some unfilled posts urgently require appointees. Unexperienced Cabinet secretaries like Betsy DeVos or Ben Carson will rely on their under-secretaries to do much of the day-to-day work in their departments, as Vox point out. But no one has yet been nominated to take care of business as under-secretary to DeVos, Carson, Rick Perry or a number of other high-profile Cabinet appointees. More about: Donald Trump Betsy DeVos White House Kevin flynn Comments

Donald Trump has failed to nominate candidates to a number of key positions, falling significantly behind the Obama administration and troubling the President's claim the White House is running like a "well-oiled machine".

By March 2009, Barack Obama had made nominations to one in six positions requiring Senate confirmation. With 10 days to go until an exact comparison can be made, the Trump team has made nominations to just one post in 16.

As many as 1,200 roles require Senate approval, including Cabinet secretaries, agency chiefs and ambassadors. The Washington Post has compiled a database tracking these appointments, exposing a worrying lag in comparison to previous Presidents.

Just 14 of the positions, or 2.5 per cent, had been confirmed by the Senate at the time of writing. A further 20 are awaiting confirmation, while the remaining 515 (or 94 per cent) are yet to have any nominees put forward by the Trump administration.

Donald Trump says 'the leaks are real, the news is fake' in response to Michael Flynn resignation

The process has also been marred by withdrawals and resignations: last week, Mr Trump lost more nominees than he put forward.

In a high-profile embarrassment for the Trump team, Michael Flynn resigned as national security adviser after it was revealed he had discussed forthcoming sanctions with the Russian ambassador to the US, and then denied it in public statements.

Vincent Viola, the billionaire trader and veteran who was Mr Trump's first pick to head up the US Army, withdrew his nomination rather than divest from conflicting business interests.

Allegations of domestic abuse and mistreatment of workers at his fast foot chain likewise caused Andy Puzder to withdraw from his nomination to the Labour Secretary post.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







10 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued

















1/10 Trump and abortion Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March Getty

2/10 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

3/10 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

4/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

5/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

6/10 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

7/10 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

8/10 Trump and the media White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC Getty Images

9/10 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

10/10 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

There are several hundred other positions which do not need approval, but still require Mr Trump to put forward a nominee: many of these are internal White House roles. Thousands more appointments must be made within federal organs by senior members of the Trump team.

The nominations process is never speedy: as noted, the Obama administration had only made a minority of federal nominations at this stage in 2009.

But some unfilled posts urgently require appointees. Unexperienced Cabinet secretaries like Betsy DeVos or Ben Carson will rely on their under-secretaries to do much of the day-to-day work in their departments, as Vox point out. But no one has yet been nominated to take care of business as under-secretary to DeVos, Carson, Rick Perry or a number of other high-profile Cabinet appointees.