Cafe 'overwhelmed' with customers after accidentally being awarded Michelin star
Cafe 'overwhelmed' with customers after accidentally being awarded Michelin star
A cafe in a small rench town has been flooded with customers after it was accidentally awarded a prestigious Michelin star. Bourges' Bouche à Oreille is a cheerful eatery which serves homemade food such as lasagna and beef bourguignon to local workmen on long tables covered with a plastic dotted tablecloth. But gourmet customers started streaming through the doors of the local establishment following the news it had been awarded a Michelin star. The unexpected publicity boost was the result of a mistake by the respected Michelin guide, when it announced its top tables for 2017 on its website. The Michelin star was meant for a restaurant also called Bouche à Oreille located in Boutervilliers, Essonne, about 200 kilometres north. Read more Michelin-starred chefs cook with food waste at new restaurant Why a female chef is giving up her 'cursed' Michelin star The 13 best restaurants in London to try in 2017 TV chef admitted his Michelin-starred restaurant keeps the tips Véronique Jacquet, who runs the cafe, told the French newspaper Le Parisien that she had been "overwhelmed" with bookings. "I have new clients that want tables for three and four but at the same time I have my regulars. The problem is that we don’t have that much space,” she said. TV crews and reporters descended on the small cafe to find out what the buzz was all about and Ms Jacquet said that when she told her Parisian son what had happened, he could not stop laughing. How Brexit affected Britain's favourite foods from Weetabix to Marmite               How Brexit affected Britain's favourite foods from Weetabix to Marmite    Weetabix   Chief executive of Weetabix Giles Turrell has warned that the price of one of the nation’s favourite breakfast are likely to go up this year by low-single digits in percentage terms.   Reuters     Nescafé   The cost of a 100g jar of Nescafé Original at Sainsbury’s has gone up 40p from £2.75 to £3.15 – a 14 per cent rise—since the Brexit vote.   PA     Freddo   When contacted by The Independent this month, a Mondelez spokesperson declined to discuss specific brands but confirmed that there would be "selective" price increases across its range despite the American multi-national confectionery giant reporting profits of $548m (£450m) in its last three-month financial period.

Mondelez, which bought Cadbury in 2010, said rising commodity costs combined with the slump in the value of the pound had made its products more expensive to make.   Cadbury     Mr Kipling cakes   Premier Foods, the maker of Mr Kipling and Bisto gravy, said that it was considering price rises on a case-by-case basis   Reuters     Walkers Crisps   Walkers, owned by US giant PepsiCo, said "the weakened value of the pound" is affecting the import cost of some of its materials.

A Walkers spokesman told the Press Association that a 32g standard bag was set to increase from 50p to 55p, and the larger grab bag from 75p to 80p.   Getty     Marmite   Tesco removed Marmite and other Unilever household brand from its website last October, after the manufacturer tried to raise its prices by about 10 per cent owing to sterling’s slump.

Tesco and Unilever resolved their argument, but the price of Marmite has increased in UK supermarkets with the grocer reporting a 250g jar of Marmite will now cost Morrisons’ customers £2.64 - an increase of 12.5 per cent.   Rex     Toblerone   Toblerone came under fire in November after it increased the space between the distinctive triangles of its bars.

Mondelez International, the company which makes the product, said the change was made due to price rises in recent months.   Pixabay     Maltesers   Maltesers, billed as the “lighter way to enjoy chocolate”, have also shrunk in size. Mars, which owns the brand, has reduced its pouch weight by 15 per cent.

Mars said rising costs mean it had to make the unenviable decision between increasing its prices or reducing the weight of its Malteser packs.   iStockphoto  Bouche à Oreille flan Claire Dorland-Clauzel, a director at Michelin told Le Parisien: “This is a technical mistake on a map. We have apologised to both establishments and we are sorry to have misled our clients.” More about: France Michelin Guide Results 2017 Michelin Comments

A cafe in a small rench town has been flooded with customers after it was accidentally awarded a prestigious Michelin star.

Bourges' Bouche à Oreille is a cheerful eatery which serves homemade food such as lasagna and beef bourguignon to local workmen on long tables covered with a plastic dotted tablecloth.

But gourmet customers started streaming through the doors of the local establishment following the news it had been awarded a Michelin star.

The unexpected publicity boost was the result of a mistake by the respected Michelin guide, when it announced its top tables for 2017 on its website. The Michelin star was meant for a restaurant also called Bouche à Oreille located in Boutervilliers, Essonne, about 200 kilometres north.

Véronique Jacquet, who runs the cafe, told the French newspaper Le Parisien that she had been "overwhelmed" with bookings. "I have new clients that want tables for three and four but at the same time I have my regulars. The problem is that we don’t have that much space,” she said.

TV crews and reporters descended on the small cafe to find out what the buzz was all about and Ms Jacquet said that when she told her Parisian son what had happened, he could not stop laughing.

How Brexit affected Britain's favourite foods from Weetabix to Marmite







8 show all How Brexit affected Britain's favourite foods from Weetabix to Marmite













1/8 Weetabix Chief executive of Weetabix Giles Turrell has warned that the price of one of the nation’s favourite breakfast are likely to go up this year by low-single digits in percentage terms. Reuters

2/8 Nescafé The cost of a 100g jar of Nescafé Original at Sainsbury’s has gone up 40p from £2.75 to £3.15 – a 14 per cent rise—since the Brexit vote. PA

3/8 Freddo When contacted by The Independent this month, a Mondelez spokesperson declined to discuss specific brands but confirmed that there would be "selective" price increases across its range despite the American multi-national confectionery giant reporting profits of $548m (£450m) in its last three-month financial period. Mondelez, which bought Cadbury in 2010, said rising commodity costs combined with the slump in the value of the pound had made its products more expensive to make. Cadbury

4/8 Mr Kipling cakes Premier Foods, the maker of Mr Kipling and Bisto gravy, said that it was considering price rises on a case-by-case basis Reuters

5/8 Walkers Crisps Walkers, owned by US giant PepsiCo, said "the weakened value of the pound" is affecting the import cost of some of its materials. A Walkers spokesman told the Press Association that a 32g standard bag was set to increase from 50p to 55p, and the larger grab bag from 75p to 80p. Getty

6/8 Marmite Tesco removed Marmite and other Unilever household brand from its website last October, after the manufacturer tried to raise its prices by about 10 per cent owing to sterling’s slump. Tesco and Unilever resolved their argument, but the price of Marmite has increased in UK supermarkets with the grocer reporting a 250g jar of Marmite will now cost Morrisons’ customers £2.64 - an increase of 12.5 per cent. Rex

7/8 Toblerone Toblerone came under fire in November after it increased the space between the distinctive triangles of its bars. Mondelez International, the company which makes the product, said the change was made due to price rises in recent months. Pixabay

8/8 Maltesers Maltesers, billed as the “lighter way to enjoy chocolate”, have also shrunk in size. Mars, which owns the brand, has reduced its pouch weight by 15 per cent. Mars said rising costs mean it had to make the unenviable decision between increasing its prices or reducing the weight of its Malteser packs. iStockphoto

The more up-market Bouche à Oreille offers customers choice from a €48 (£41) menu, which includes calf’s brain, lobster flan, chocolate pear crisp and a glass of champagne all served on a double tablecloth laid table.

Claire Dorland-Clauzel, a director at Michelin told Le Parisien: “This is a technical mistake on a map. We have apologised to both establishments and we are sorry to have misled our clients.”