Food Fight: Mexico Targets American Corn In Trump 'Trade War'
Food Fight: Mexico Targets American Corn In Trump 'Trade War'
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kenneth Rapoza       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Arming for the coming 'trade war.' At least one Mexican senator is threatening to stop buying corn from the U.S. (Shutterstock) Mexico's government is preparing its arsenal of weapons to go against the U.S. revamp of NAFTA. Corn is on the table. Lock and load. Some in the Mexican senate are willing to start a "tortilla war" with American farmers with government officials in Mexico City supposedly planning to introduce legislation that would tax corn imports from the United States. Mexico would then buy some of its corn from Argentina and Brazil, even if it meant paying a premium. A group called the Agricultural & Applied Economics Association (AAEA) out of Milwaukee warned that Mexican senator Armando Rios Piter was considering proposing legislation on the matter. The legislation is likely a preparation for a trade spat with the Trump Administration. CNN reported from Mexico this week that Piter was going to propose a bill. AAEA said in two separate interviews on Thursday that their sampling of U.S. farmers' concerns over a new tariffs was too small to gauge any real impact on the American Midwestern corn belt. Mexico purchased an estimated $2.4 billion worth of corn from the U.S. in 2015. Corn is a staple in the Mexican diet, particularly among low income households. Brazil and Argentina's corn exporters would unlikely be able to fill any immediate gap if a tariff was put on this year. Mexico is a substantial client for the American farmer. Corn exports to Mexico have averaged out at a compound rate of nearly 8% between 1968 and 2016, according to the AAEA. The growth slowed over the years as Mexico increases its own production and now averages around 5.5% per year ever since NAFTA was signed in January 1994. "I would not be surprised to see Mexico broaden the agricultural commodities to put tariffs on," says Terry Roe, a University of Minnesota professor and member of the steering committee at the University's Center for International Food and Agriculture Policy. He thinks Mexico is more likely to tread carefully in any food fight with Washington since agricultural trade is a larger share of Mexico's GDP than it is for the U.S. In the short-term, new corn duties has low odds of passing legislation anyway. Roe gives it a 15% chance. The U.S. runs a relatively large trade surplus with Mexico in services exports. Mexican trade officials might consider placing other barriers, including non-tariff barriers, on those service goods and try to import substitute in some of these areas where Mexico is competitive or would like to grow further.  Agricultural bans may give Mexican farmers the impetus to produce more, to modernize its own production in terms of corn yields per acre, or for the country to even expand its own crop lands. Mexico can (and should) do this anyway, regardless of the future direction of NAFTA. Trump said during his campaign that he wants to redo the NAFTA trade agreement. He favors bilateral trade agreements instead. But to get that with Mexico would require a full scrapping of the NAFTA accord, which also includes Canada. Last year, the U.S. recorded a $63 billion trade deficit in goods with Mexico, up from $60 billion in 2014 but hardly a record breaker.  The U.S. hit a record $74 billion trade deficit with Mexico in 2007, according to U.S. Census data. In 1994, the first year NAFTA was in place, the U.S. had a small $1.3 billion surplus with Mexico. But in 1995, that was completely erased and the trade trend ran in Mexico's favor as measured by surpluses with a $15.8 billion deficit recorded by the U.S. that year. President Donald Trump tours a Boeing facility in South Carolina on Friday, Feb. 17, 2017. He is on a job-creating mission for a bulk of blue-collar America that's better suited to machine tools than software coding. But investors would like to remind him that Mexico is a tiny portion of America's overall trade deficit with the world. Punishing Mexico may not be warranted, even as the market still expects a NAFTA do-over. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) Markets have been anxiously awaiting details on a NAFTA revise. The iShares MSCI Mexico (EWW) exchange traded fund is up this year, but is underperforming the MSCI Emerging Markets benchmark index. A number of big global funds have been coming out in favor of Mexico, including Prudential Group this week. "Mexico is going to be a tough negotiator. The entire relationship is up for review. Trump is playing rhetoric and Mexico is going to play hard ball," expects Sebastian Miralles, owner of Tempest Capital, a Mexican private equity firm. Mexico is an important economy, but it is more dependent on the U.S. than any other economy in Latin America. Talks of a border adjustment tax or scrapping NAFTA in favor of a bilateral trade agreement will push Mexico and the U.S. back to pre-NAFTA trade, some investors say, which means Mexico has a higher tariff on U.S. goods coming to Mexico than what the U.S. has on Mexico goods coming here. "Whether Mexico ultimately puts extra taxes on corn, every country has to do what they need to do to compensate for tariffs being put on them," says Gerardo Zamorano, director of the investment group at Brandes, a mutual fund company based in San Diego. Zamorano thinks that once the Trump Administration weighs all the risks and rewards, NAFTA revisions won't be as radical as the market first expected. That's mainly because if the U.S. does punish Mexico, the market will simply sell off the peso, making Mexican production and final products cheaper even with the extra tariffs. Meanwhile, if Mexico retaliated on the corn front, American corn meal exporters like Archer Daniels Midland would simply have to reprice and could, in theory, lose markets in Mexico. "It makes more sense for both countries to benefit because Mexico as a low cost production area helps U.S. manufacturing firms which are often part of that NAFTA supply chain," he says. "You are starting to see more companies saying they like benefiting from these low cost areas." Ford Motor Company said on Friday that it was not ruling out building car assembly lines in Mexico in the future, even as it recently agreed to cancel plans to build a small sedan in Mexico. It will build in the U.S. instead. Says Zamorano, "We could have a difficult four years, but given what I'm seeing, I think the majority of the people understand that this can be a benefit and not a detriment." The World's Saddest (And Happiest) Countries Find me on Twitter at @BRICBreaker    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Mexico's government is preparing its arsenal of weapons to go against the U.S. revamp of NAFTA. Corn is on the table. Lock and load.

Some in the Mexican senate are willing to start a "tortilla war" with American farmers with government officials in Mexico City supposedly planning to introduce legislation that would tax corn imports from the United States. Mexico would then buy some of its corn from Argentina and Brazil, even if it meant paying a premium. A group called the Agricultural & Applied Economics Association (AAEA) out of Milwaukee warned that Mexican senator Armando Rios Piter was considering proposing legislation on the matter.

The legislation is likely a preparation for a trade spat with the Trump Administration. CNN reported from Mexico this week that Piter was going to propose a bill.

AAEA said in two separate interviews on Thursday that their sampling of U.S. farmers' concerns over a new tariffs was too small to gauge any real impact on the American Midwestern corn belt.

Mexico purchased an estimated $2.4 billion worth of corn from the U.S. in 2015.

Corn is a staple in the Mexican diet, particularly among low income households. Brazil and Argentina's corn exporters would unlikely be able to fill any immediate gap if a tariff was put on this year.

Mexico is a substantial client for the American farmer. Corn exports to Mexico have averaged out at a compound rate of nearly 8% between 1968 and 2016, according to the AAEA. The growth slowed over the years as Mexico increases its own production and now averages around 5.5% per year ever since NAFTA was signed in January 1994.

"I would not be surprised to see Mexico broaden the agricultural commodities to put tariffs on," says Terry Roe, a University of Minnesota professor and member of the steering committee at the University's Center for International Food and Agriculture Policy. He thinks Mexico is more likely to tread carefully in any food fight with Washington since agricultural trade is a larger share of Mexico's GDP than it is for the U.S. In the short-term, new corn duties has low odds of passing legislation anyway. Roe gives it a 15% chance.

The U.S. runs a relatively large trade surplus with Mexico in services exports. Mexican trade officials might consider placing other barriers, including non-tariff barriers, on those service goods and try to import substitute in some of these areas where Mexico is competitive or would like to grow further. Agricultural bans may give Mexican farmers the impetus to produce more, to modernize its own production in terms of corn yields per acre, or for the country to even expand its own crop lands. Mexico can (and should) do this anyway, regardless of the future direction of NAFTA.

Trump said during his campaign that he wants to redo the NAFTA trade agreement. He favors bilateral trade agreements instead. But to get that with Mexico would require a full scrapping of the NAFTA accord, which also includes Canada.

Last year, the U.S. recorded a $63 billion trade deficit in goods with Mexico, up from $60 billion in 2014 but hardly a record breaker. The U.S. hit a record $74 billion trade deficit with Mexico in 2007, according to U.S. Census data. In 1994, the first year NAFTA was in place, the U.S. had a small $1.3 billion surplus with Mexico. But in 1995, that was completely erased and the trade trend ran in Mexico's favor as measured by surpluses with a $15.8 billion deficit recorded by the U.S. that year.

Markets have been anxiously awaiting details on a NAFTA revise. The iShares MSCI Mexico (EWW) exchange traded fund is up this year, but is underperforming the MSCI Emerging Markets benchmark index. A number of big global funds have been coming out in favor of Mexico, including Prudential Group this week.

"Mexico is going to be a tough negotiator. The entire relationship is up for review. Trump is playing rhetoric and Mexico is going to play hard ball," expects Sebastian Miralles, owner of Tempest Capital, a Mexican private equity firm.

Mexico is an important economy, but it is more dependent on the U.S. than any other economy in Latin America. Talks of a border adjustment tax or scrapping NAFTA in favor of a bilateral trade agreement will push Mexico and the U.S. back to pre-NAFTA trade, some investors say, which means Mexico has a higher tariff on U.S. goods coming to Mexico than what the U.S. has on Mexico goods coming here.

"Whether Mexico ultimately puts extra taxes on corn, every country has to do what they need to do to compensate for tariffs being put on them," says Gerardo Zamorano, director of the investment group at Brandes, a mutual fund company based in San Diego. Zamorano thinks that once the Trump Administration weighs all the risks and rewards, NAFTA revisions won't be as radical as the market first expected. That's mainly because if the U.S. does punish Mexico, the market will simply sell off the peso, making Mexican production and final products cheaper even with the extra tariffs. Meanwhile, if Mexico retaliated on the corn front, American corn meal exporters like Archer Daniels Midland would simply have to reprice and could, in theory, lose markets in Mexico.

"It makes more sense for both countries to benefit because Mexico as a low cost production area helps U.S. manufacturing firms which are often part of that NAFTA supply chain," he says. "You are starting to see more companies saying they like benefiting from these low cost areas."

Ford Motor Company said on Friday that it was not ruling out building car assembly lines in Mexico in the future, even as it recently agreed to cancel plans to build a small sedan in Mexico. It will build in the U.S. instead.

Says Zamorano, "We could have a difficult four years, but given what I'm seeing, I think the majority of the people understand that this can be a benefit and not a detriment."

Find me on Twitter at @BRICBreaker