President Trump Speaks to Supporters 'Without the Filter of the Fake News'

President Trump Speaks to Supporters 'Without the Filter of the Fake News' // // // // In his first post-Inauguration campaign rally, President Donald Trump spoke to a large crowd of supporters inside an airplane hangar in Melbourne, Fla., on Saturday evening. Trump touched on what has occurred during the first month of his presidency and what is in store for the months ahead. He said the purpose of the campaign rally was to speak to the American people "without the filter of the fake news" -- a continuation of his 77-minute news conference Thursday slamming the mainstream media. Trump also discussed how his administration will strengthen the borders in order to keep Americans safe. He continued saying that a new health care plan is in the works to repeal and replace Obamacare. He also touched on the creation of jobs and the ending of business regulations to improve the economy and keep jobs in America. At one point, Trump called a supporter on stage for a few remarks. According to Trump, the man, identified as Gene Huber, arrived at 4 a.m. ET to line up for the campaign rally. "We the people, our movement is the reason why our president of the United States is standing in front of us today," Huber said after being escorted on stage by security. Trump then discussed the suspension of his executive order on immigration and how the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the decision. He also mentioned plans in the works to "totally destroy ISIS" by a vast rebuilding of the U.S. military. Trump then talked about his upcoming plans for tax reform and improvements to America's infrastructure. "It's a movement that's just sweeping across our country," Trump said of his presidency as he "delivers change for the ages." He of course concluded the rally with his patented phrase, "We will make America great again...greater than ever before." Watch the above video clips for more on the campaign rally.

In his first post-Inauguration campaign rally, President Donald Trump spoke to a large crowd of supporters inside an airplane hangar in Melbourne, Fla., on Saturday evening.

Trump touched on what has occurred during the first month of his presidency and what is in store for the months ahead.

He said the purpose of the campaign rally was to speak to the American people "without the filter of the fake news" -- a continuation of his 77-minute news conference Thursday slamming the mainstream media.

Trump also discussed how his administration will strengthen the borders in order to keep Americans safe.

He continued saying that a new health care plan is in the works to repeal and replace Obamacare.

He also touched on the creation of jobs and the ending of business regulations to improve the economy and keep jobs in America.

At one point, Trump called a supporter on stage for a few remarks. According to Trump, the man, identified as Gene Huber, arrived at 4 a.m. ET to line up for the campaign rally.

"We the people, our movement is the reason why our president of the United States is standing in front of us today," Huber said after being escorted on stage by security.

Trump then discussed the suspension of his executive order on immigration and how the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the decision.

He also mentioned plans in the works to "totally destroy ISIS" by a vast rebuilding of the U.S. military.

Trump then talked about his upcoming plans for tax reform and improvements to America's infrastructure.

"It's a movement that's just sweeping across our country," Trump said of his presidency as he "delivers change for the ages."

He of course concluded the rally with his patented phrase, "We will make America great again...greater than ever before."

Watch the above video clips for more on the campaign rally.

Trump FL Campaign Rally Coordinator: 'This Is His 1st Re-Election Rally'

RPT: Trump's Border Wall Could Save Americans Nearly $64 Billion Over 10 Years

Don't Miss a 'First 100 Days' Town Hall on Immigration on Tuesday