Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook, Once a Dynamic Duo, Are Now an Awkward Pairing
Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook, Once a Dynamic Duo, Are Now an Awkward Pairing
NEW ORLEANS — James Harden was staying out of it. “They’re two grown men,” Harden, the Houston Rockets’ do-everything guard, said ahead of Sunday night’s N.B.A. All-Star Game. “They have to figure it out themselves.” He was referring to the ongoing rift between Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook, two former teammates who do not seem to like each other much these days. Their weekend here was an awkward reunion for two global icons, both All-Stars for the Western Conference. As such, they were obliged to share oxygen, if not much else, at Smoothie King Center. Once upon a time, they played together for the Oklahoma City Thunder. Last summer, Durant left for the Golden State Warriors in free agency. Westbrook was not pleased. According to various accounts, their only communication in the many months since Durant’s departure came last week, when they screamed at each other from across the court in the second half of a Warriors victory in Oklahoma City. Before Sunday’s game, they proved equally adept at avoiding the mere mention of the other person’s name. Durant, for example, was asked how he dealt with potential distractions. Advertisement “Sometimes it’s tough,” he said. “But when you just block it out, it’s kind of easy. Don’t look at stuff and don’t pay attention. Stuff that you guys think is important, I don’t think it’s important at all. When you look at it that way, it’s pretty easy to me.” Advertisement As for Westbrook, he refused even to dip his toes into the topic. Consider his response to a question about being in the same locker room as Durant. “Man, you know what? Fashion week has been great,” Westbrook said. “You seen fashion week? You pay attention to fashion week? A lot of great-looking things in fashion week. New collections.” An intrepid reporter attempted to ask a follow-up about Durant. Take it away, Russ. “Man, you seen the new Public School clothing? Crazy,” Westbrook said. “They got the new Jordan hoodie with M. J. It’s crazy, man. A lot of new great things with fashion week I’ve seen, man. What else is out? Gucci. The new Gucci stuff is dope. It’s good stuff, man.” At Saturday’s public practice at the Superdome, Westbrook and Durant kept their distance. Whenever possible — which was often — they took residence at opposite ends of the court. Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, who coached the West All-Stars, said he had no intention of organizing any kind of meeting between the two to work on healing their feud. That was not his job. Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy “The only thing I want is for our players to enjoy the weekend,” Kerr said. “It’s a hectic weekend for all of them. It’s a great honor to be here. I want everybody to be comfortable and happy.” It should be noted, of course, that Durant and Westbrook are both in the process of assembling remarkable seasons. Durant, a long-limbed forward, is averaging 25.8 points, 8.3 rebounds and 4.9 assists for the Warriors, who have a league-best 47-9 record. He is also shooting a career-best 53.9 percent from the field, a product of his own improvement, along with the ability of his high-profile teammates to draw defensive attention. Durant and Stephen Curry have developed into a particularly dynamic tandem. There is always a period of adjustment when players are new to each other, Kerr said, especially when they are superstars. But Curry and Durant are almost unstoppable when they are on the court together. Then add to that the set of challenges Klay Thompson creates from the 3-point line. Advertisement “It’s amazing how quickly they’ve adapted to each other,” Kerr said. “I think Steph had the bigger adjustment, frankly, because he was trying to incorporate K. D. into our group. But I think it turned for Steph when he realized he didn’t have to do anything differently. He could just be himself, and be aggressive and look to score.” In Durant’s absence, Westbrook has hauled the Thunder to a 32-25 record. He is averaging 31.1 points and 10.5 rebounds, both career highs, along with 10.1 assists. He is bidding to become only the second player to average a triple-double — double figures in three of five major statistical categories — for an entire season. Oscar Robertson did it in 1961-62. With Durant, though, the Thunder were title contenders. Last season, they extended the Warriors to seven games in the conference finals — and probably would have advanced to face the Cleveland Cavaliers in the N.B.A. finals had Thompson failed to engineer some late-series heroics. Without Durant, the Thunder are determined overachievers. The joke goes that they are only one player away from being back in the hunt for a title. (That player now lives in the Bay Area.) Despite all that, Westbrook said: “I’m in a great place. I’m happy. I’m having fun.” Westbrook was already a competitive individual before Durant left town. But Durant’s departure appears to have motivated Westbrook even more, no small feat. And in that way, despite their clear differences, Westbrook and Durant remain connected. Westbrook feeds off the anger, uses it as fuel. This is his version of happiness. This is the way he has fun. A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2017, on Page D3 of the with the headline: Once a Dynamic Duo, Now Just an Awkward Pairing.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.          FEATURE

“Sometimes it’s tough,” he said. “But when you just block it out, it’s kind of easy. Don’t look at stuff and don’t pay attention. Stuff that you guys think is important, I don’t think it’s important at all. When you look at it that way, it’s pretty easy to me.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As for Westbrook, he refused even to dip his toes into the topic. Consider his response to a question about being in the same locker room as Durant.

“Man, you know what? Fashion week has been great,” Westbrook said. “You seen fashion week? You pay attention to fashion week? A lot of great-looking things in fashion week. New collections.”

An intrepid reporter attempted to ask a follow-up about Durant. Take it away, Russ.

“Man, you seen the new Public School clothing? Crazy,” Westbrook said. “They got the new Jordan hoodie with M. J. It’s crazy, man. A lot of new great things with fashion week I’ve seen, man. What else is out? Gucci. The new Gucci stuff is dope. It’s good stuff, man.”

At Saturday’s public practice at the Superdome, Westbrook and Durant kept their distance. Whenever possible — which was often — they took residence at opposite ends of the court. Warriors Coach Steve Kerr, who coached the West All-Stars, said he had no intention of organizing any kind of meeting between the two to work on healing their feud. That was not his job.

Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“The only thing I want is for our players to enjoy the weekend,” Kerr said. “It’s a hectic weekend for all of them. It’s a great honor to be here. I want everybody to be comfortable and happy.”

It should be noted, of course, that Durant and Westbrook are both in the process of assembling remarkable seasons.

Durant, a long-limbed forward, is averaging 25.8 points, 8.3 rebounds and 4.9 assists for the Warriors, who have a league-best 47-9 record. He is also shooting a career-best 53.9 percent from the field, a product of his own improvement, along with the ability of his high-profile teammates to draw defensive attention.

Durant and Stephen Curry have developed into a particularly dynamic tandem. There is always a period of adjustment when players are new to each other, Kerr said, especially when they are superstars. But Curry and Durant are almost unstoppable when they are on the court together. Then add to that the set of challenges Klay Thompson creates from the 3-point line.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s amazing how quickly they’ve adapted to each other,” Kerr said. “I think Steph had the bigger adjustment, frankly, because he was trying to incorporate K. D. into our group. But I think it turned for Steph when he realized he didn’t have to do anything differently. He could just be himself, and be aggressive and look to score.”

In Durant’s absence, Westbrook has hauled the Thunder to a 32-25 record. He is averaging 31.1 points and 10.5 rebounds, both career highs, along with 10.1 assists. He is bidding to become only the second player to average a triple-double — double figures in three of five major statistical categories — for an entire season. Oscar Robertson did it in 1961-62.

With Durant, though, the Thunder were title contenders. Last season, they extended the Warriors to seven games in the conference finals — and probably would have advanced to face the Cleveland Cavaliers in the N.B.A. finals had Thompson failed to engineer some late-series heroics.

Without Durant, the Thunder are determined overachievers. The joke goes that they are only one player away from being back in the hunt for a title. (That player now lives in the Bay Area.)

Despite all that, Westbrook said: “I’m in a great place. I’m happy. I’m having fun.”

Westbrook was already a competitive individual before Durant left town. But Durant’s departure appears to have motivated Westbrook even more, no small feat. And in that way, despite their clear differences, Westbrook and Durant remain connected. Westbrook feeds off the anger, uses it as fuel.

This is his version of happiness. This is the way he has fun.