Yale University Group Seeks to Allow Women into All-Male Fraternities

Yale University Group Seeks to Allow Women into All-Male Fraternities // // // // A student group at Yale University is attempting to lobby the administration to allow women into all-male fraternities. According to the Yale Daily News , the group Engender coordinated the attendance of female students at the fraternity Sigma Phi Epsilon's rush events. Sigma Phi Epsilon voted to allow female and nonbinary students to attend its recruitment events this year but would accept only men as pledges due to national regulations. Citing Title IX legislation, Engender seeks to convince the Yale administration to intervene in the single gender membership policies of fraternities as established by the bylaws of their national organizations. Co-directors of the group said restricting fraternity membership to only males is a form of sex discrimination. The group does not have an official position on whether sororities should be gender-integrated as well. According to the Department of Justice's Title IX legal manual, "Title IX exemptions include the membership policies of certain university-based social fraternities and sororities." What do you think of this movement to allow females into all-male fraternities? Tell us in the comments section.

A student group at Yale University is attempting to lobby the administration to allow women into all-male fraternities.

According to the Yale Daily News, the group Engender coordinated the attendance of female students at the fraternity Sigma Phi Epsilon's rush events.

Sigma Phi Epsilon voted to allow female and nonbinary students to attend its recruitment events this year but would accept only men as pledges due to national regulations.

Mark Cuban's No. 46 Jersey at NBA Celeb Game Was Apparent Jab at Trump

Sheriff David Clarke on Violent Philly Protests: 'This Stuff Is Disastrous'

Citing Title IX legislation, Engender seeks to convince the Yale administration to intervene in the single gender membership policies of fraternities as established by the bylaws of their national organizations.

Co-directors of the group said restricting fraternity membership to only males is a form of sex discrimination. The group does not have an official position on whether sororities should be gender-integrated as well.

According to the Department of Justice's Title IX legal manual, "Title IX exemptions include the membership policies of certain university-based social fraternities and sororities."

What do you think of this movement to allow females into all-male fraternities? Tell us in the comments section.

NYC Dad Outraged Over Daughter's 'Anti-Trump' Homework Question

Christie Says Trump Made Him Order Meatloaf at WH Lunch

WATCH: Man Uses Catlike Reflexes to Catch Falling Toddler