Lindsey Graham Warns Trump ‘Don’t Empower Russia’
Lindsey Graham Warns Trump 'Don't Empower Russia' - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Sunday on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) said President Donald Trump, should not “empower Russia.” FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Graham said, “When it comes to Russia, the one thing that bothers me most about President Trump is he never seems to forcefully embrace idea that Russia’s interference in our election in 2016 is something that should be punished. I am a Republican, it happened to the Democrats. it could happen to Republicans next. When one party is attacked, all of us are attacked, and one thing I am looking for  is a more forceful response from President Trump when it comes to what Russia did in our elections.” “Putin is not a friend of democracy,” he added. “George W. Bush miscalculate who Putin was, Obama was weak and indecisive in the face of Russian aggression, and my advice to President Trump is don’t repeat Obama’s mistake and for God’s sake don’t empower Russia, by forgiving them in terms of what they did in our election and if we don’t hit them hard, you will be empowering Russia.”

"What bothers me most about POTUS is that he never seems to forcefully embrace the idea that [Russia interfered in election]" - Sen. Graham pic.twitter.com/Iq6brh78Vv

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Sunday on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) said President Donald Trump, should not “empower Russia.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Graham said, “When it comes to Russia, the one thing that bothers me most about President Trump is he never seems to forcefully embrace idea that Russia’s interference in our election in 2016 is something that should be punished. I am a Republican, it happened to the Democrats. it could happen to Republicans next. When one party is attacked, all of us are attacked, and one thing I am looking for is a more forceful response from President Trump when it comes to what Russia did in our elections.”

“Putin is not a friend of democracy,” he added. “George W. Bush miscalculate who Putin was, Obama was weak and indecisive in the face of Russian aggression, and my advice to President Trump is don’t repeat Obama’s mistake and for God’s sake don’t empower Russia, by forgiving them in terms of what they did in our election and if we don’t hit them hard, you will be empowering Russia.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN