J.K. Rowling has the best response to Trump's non-existent Sweden attack
J.K. Rowling has the best response to Trump's non-existent Sweden attack
The internet can't get enough of President Donald Trump's "last night in Sweden" remarks, including, of course, J.K. Rowling. Never one to shy from a little fun at the expense of the U.S. president, the author joined in on Twitter's response to Trump's confusing reference to a terrorist attack that didn't actually happen. SEE ALSO: Internet turns to @Sweden on Twitter after Trump appears to invent terror attack Literally the biggest incident of Sweden last night was a horse called Biscuit being rescued from a well. https://t.co/CAYsHhpt6z — Grapey (@Grapeykins) February 19, 2017 #MakeBiscuitDryAgain  https://t.co/C7rPpZrcNf — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) February 19, 2017 Naturally, Rowling's hashtag kicked off a whole new riff on Trump's Sweden comments. Poor Biscuit, after #BowlingGreen , why didn't Sweden see this coming and do something to prevent such an atrocity? #MakeBiscuitDryAgain — Bren (@bnboring) February 19, 2017 Thanks to your prayers @jk_rowling Biscuit soon dry again #MakeBiscuitDryAgain  @ChelseaClinton  pic.twitter.com/shs4SnlM7P — Leif Pagrotsky (@leifpagrotsky) February 19, 2017 What's that, Lassie?! Who fell down the well?? #swedenincident  #MakeBiscuitDryAgain  https://t.co/6Aoc9yfzz0 — MJ (@meencat) February 19, 2017 A quick refresher: During a speech at a rally in Melbourne, Florida, held Saturday night, Trump sandwiched a vague reference to Sweden between references to recent terrorist attacks in Germany, France and Belgium. From a transcript of his speech : "We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening. We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening in Germany, you look at what's happening last night in Sweden. Sweden, who would believe this. Sweden. They took in large numbers. They're having problems like they never thought possible. You look at what's happening in Brussels. You look at what's happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice. Take a look at Paris. We've allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country and there was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation. There was no nothing. So we're going to keep our country safe." As many have noted , nothing close to the attacks he referenced in his speech happened in Sweden on Friday night. Even Sweden's former prime minister struggled to make sense of Trump's comment: Sweden? Terror attack? What has he been smoking? Questions abound. https://t.co/XWgw8Fz7tj — Carl Bildt (@carlbildt) February 19, 2017 As for the horse, let's all hope its OK after its terrifying ordeal. [H/T: Huffington Post ] BONUS: The secret love affair between Harry Potter and Voldemort

The internet can't get enough of President Donald Trump's "last night in Sweden" remarks, including, of course, J.K. Rowling.

Never one to shy from a little fun at the expense of the U.S. president, the author joined in on Twitter's response to Trump's confusing reference to a terrorist attack that didn't actually happen.

Literally the biggest incident of Sweden last night was a horse called Biscuit being rescued from a well. https://t.co/CAYsHhpt6z — Grapey (@Grapeykins) February 19, 2017

Naturally, Rowling's hashtag kicked off a whole new riff on Trump's Sweden comments.

Poor Biscuit, after #BowlingGreen, why didn't Sweden see this coming and do something to prevent such an atrocity? #MakeBiscuitDryAgain — Bren (@bnboring) February 19, 2017

A quick refresher: During a speech at a rally in Melbourne, Florida, held Saturday night, Trump sandwiched a vague reference to Sweden between references to recent terrorist attacks in Germany, France and Belgium.

From a transcript of his speech:

"We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening. We've got to keep our country safe. You look at what's happening in Germany, you look at what's happening last night in Sweden. Sweden, who would believe this. Sweden. They took in large numbers. They're having problems like they never thought possible. You look at what's happening in Brussels. You look at what's happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice. Take a look at Paris. We've allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country and there was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation. There was no nothing. So we're going to keep our country safe."

As many have noted, nothing close to the attacks he referenced in his speech happened in Sweden on Friday night.

Even Sweden's former prime minister struggled to make sense of Trump's comment:

Sweden? Terror attack? What has he been smoking? Questions abound. https://t.co/XWgw8Fz7tj — Carl Bildt (@carlbildt) February 19, 2017

As for the horse, let's all hope its OK after its terrifying ordeal.

[H/T: Huffington Post]