Here Are the Best Plays From the 2017 NBA All-Star Game
Here Are the Best Plays From the 2017 NBA All-Star Game
For the second time in three years, the NBA All-Star Game will take place in New Orleans, Louisiana. However, when players from the Eastern Conference and Western Conference take the Smoothie King Center court, things are going to look very different, and very similar at the same time. LeBron James is still repping for the East, but this time around, he's back in Cleveland. DeMar DeRozan is an All-Star once again, but he's elevated his game to starter-worthy material. Meanwhile, the biggest storyline of this year's All-Star Weekend is...  Kyrie Irving spreading that damn "earth is flat" theory everywhere he goes. Instead, it's Russell Westbrook Kevin Durant Oklahoma City Thunder G R E E K F R E A K pic.twitter.com/52e0ds6DtT The Kyrie Irving-to-LeBron James long-distance alley-oop doesn't take a night off. This looks familiar. #KyrieIrving to #LeBronJames ! #NBAAllStar  pic.twitter.com/RgjAqD5HQX Westbrook and KD work together on the give-and-go... up for it, for old time's sake. #KevinDurant up top for #RussellWestbrook for #TeamWEST ! #NBAAllStar  @NBAonTNT  pic.twitter.com/lXDtN6hIfu

For the second time in three years, the NBA All-Star Game will take place in New Orleans, Louisiana. However, when players from the Eastern Conference and Western Conference take the Smoothie King Center court, things are going to look very different, and very similar at the same time.

LeBron James is still repping for the East, but this time around, he's back in Cleveland. DeMar DeRozan is an All-Star once again, but he's elevated his game to starter-worthy material. Meanwhile, the biggest storyline of this year's All-Star Weekend is... not Kyrie Irving spreading that damn "earth is flat" theory everywhere he goes. Instead, it's the ongoing feud between Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant, who was representing the Oklahoma City Thunder the last time this game took place in Louisiana. With Western Conference head coach Steve Kerr consistently teasing the idea of putting out a lineup of Westbrook with the Golden State Warriors' Big 4 of Durant, Steph Curry, Klay Thompson, and Draymond Green, all eyes will be glued on their screen to see what goes down tonight at the 2017 NBA All-Star Game.

Giannis Antetokounmpo shows the Smoothie King Center crowd what a thunderous slam looks like.

G R E E K F R E A K pic.twitter.com/52e0ds6DtT — Complex Sports (@ComplexSports) February 20, 2017

The Kyrie Irving-to-LeBron James long-distance alley-oop doesn't take a night off.

Westbrook and KD work together on the give-and-go... up for it, for old time's sake.