Close encounter with a hare – a rare sight in the West Country

Charlie Elder   emmed in on either side by tall hedgerows, this narrow Dartmoor lane skirts the flank of higher ground and scores a deep furrow between fields so that after dark you feel you are tunnelling through the terrain, headlights tracing a leaden seam of asphalt. There is little traffic here to trouble nocturnal wildlife. Over the years I have come across badgers, heads striped like road markings, furtive-looking foxes and occasionally a barn owl, achingly white in the full beams. This winter’s night, an unexpected wanderer took shape among the blanched fishbone stems of dead weeds, as if created by the action of light on darkness. Long ears held high, hindquarters arched over rangy rear legs, large eyes that brought me to a halt. A hare! Any sighting of this lanky lagomorph comes with an exclamation mark in this part of Britain. Dashing dweller of arable plains, the brown hare ( ) is far from common in the damp pastureland of the west country. Scattered reports collated by the Devon Biodiversity Records Centre this century only lightly freckle the county map, with barely a dozen dots on Dartmoor, where mysterious three-hare motifs carved into church roof bosses may now be more widespread than the real thing. To have chanced across this night-roamer, lolloping calmly across the muddy lane, was a rare privilege indeed. It stopped, searching for sense in the dazzling light, muscular pistons primed. Built for speed and vigilance, the UK’s fastest land mammal is supremely adapted to life in the open. Although, for all its elongated elegance, it is perhaps best known for its eccentricity: the frenzied boxing bouts in spring as pugilistic females fend off amorous males. Ancient symbol of fertility, our mad and magical hare has also been a source of superstition down the centuries, such that it might be considered ill omen if one crossed your path. I couldn’t have felt luckier. Then, with black-topped tail tucked down, it turned and let its powerful legs carry it off into the shadows. Life conjured from light had returned to darkness, and this scarce Dartmoor sighting left me with a message of hope: they are still here. Topics  Wildlife   Winter   Devon holidays

Hemmed in on either side by tall hedgerows, this narrow Dartmoor lane skirts the flank of higher ground and scores a deep furrow between fields so that after dark you feel you are tunnelling through the terrain, headlights tracing a leaden seam of asphalt. There is little traffic here to trouble nocturnal wildlife. Over the years I have come across badgers, heads striped like road markings, furtive-looking foxes and occasionally a barn owl, achingly white in the full beams.

This winter’s night, an unexpected wanderer took shape among the blanched fishbone stems of dead weeds, as if created by the action of light on darkness. Long ears held high, hindquarters arched over rangy rear legs, large eyes that brought me to a halt. A hare!

Any sighting of this lanky lagomorph comes with an exclamation mark in this part of Britain. Dashing dweller of arable plains, the brown hare (Lepus europaeus) is far from common in the damp pastureland of the west country. Scattered reports collated by the Devon Biodiversity Records Centre this century only lightly freckle the county map, with barely a dozen dots on Dartmoor, where mysterious three-hare motifs carved into church roof bosses may now be more widespread than the real thing. To have chanced across this night-roamer, lolloping calmly across the muddy lane, was a rare privilege indeed.

Early-morning fisticuffs for March hares Read more

It stopped, searching for sense in the dazzling light, muscular pistons primed. Built for speed and vigilance, the UK’s fastest land mammal is supremely adapted to life in the open. Although, for all its elongated elegance, it is perhaps best known for its eccentricity: the frenzied boxing bouts in spring as pugilistic females fend off amorous males. Ancient symbol of fertility, our mad and magical hare has also been a source of superstition down the centuries, such that it might be considered ill omen if one crossed your path. I couldn’t have felt luckier.

Then, with black-topped tail tucked down, it turned and let its powerful legs carry it off into the shadows. Life conjured from light had returned to darkness, and this scarce Dartmoor sighting left me with a message of hope: they are still here.