After Record World Satellite Launch, European Space Agency Wants To Collaborate With ISRO!
After Record World Satellite Launch, European Space Agency Wants To Collaborate With ISRO!
After Record World Satellite Launch, European Space Agency Wants To Collaborate With ISRO! European Space Agency (ESA) has expressed to further its collaboration with Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) after the latter's historic launch of 104 satellites into space at one go . The ESA's Senior Scientific Advisor Mark McCaughrean said that they are "looking forward" to a renewed collaboration in space missions. He also said that it was the precision in launching satellites and cost reduction that mattered the most. (Also read: As ISRO Successfully Launched 104 Satellites & Made A World Record, Twitter Poured Wishes ) McCaughrean further added, "ESA plans further collaboration with ISRO in various space missions. Had an informal discussion with former ISRO chairman UR Rao at Bangalore. The current ISRO chairman, AS Kiran Kumar was in a meeting in Delhi that day. Earlier, ESA had collaborated with ISRO on Chandrayaan-1 mission to Moon." The ESA has collaborated with 22 nations including India, China, Japan, Russia and the US in space missions. (Also Read: 5 Things About ISRO’s World Record Launch That Will Make You A Proud Indian ) 15 space missions are already under pipeline where the ESA will send Bepe Colombo to Mercury in 2018 and Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer (JUICE) to Jupiter in 2022. The Mercury mission is a joint venture between the ESA and Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). According to McCaughrean, the Sun's gravity will pose a huge challenge while trying to put the spacecraft into Mercury's orbit. (Also Read: Tesla Founder Elon Musk Calls ISRO 'Awesome', Throws His Weight Behind Make In India! ) As far as JUICE is concerned, the spacecraft will spend 3 years observing the planet and 3 of its largest satellites - Ganymede, Callisto and Europa. Then, the ambitious  (JUICE) to Jupiter in 2022. The explorer will spend at least three years making detailed observations of the giant gaseous planet Jupiter and three of its largest moons. "The ice crust is much deeper and there may be forms of life in these moons," said McCaughrean. He also explained how space missions to Neptune and Uranus will take time in planning as reaching there will easily take 20 to 30 years.

European Space Agency (ESA) has expressed to further its collaboration with Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) after the latter's historic launch of 104 satellites into space at one go.

The ESA's Senior Scientific Advisor Mark McCaughrean said that they are "looking forward" to a renewed collaboration in space missions. He also said that it was the precision in launching satellites and cost reduction that mattered the most.

isro

(Also read: As ISRO Successfully Launched 104 Satellites & Made A World Record, Twitter Poured Wishes)

McCaughrean further added, "ESA plans further collaboration with ISRO in various space missions. Had an informal discussion with former ISRO chairman UR Rao at Bangalore. The current ISRO chairman, AS Kiran Kumar was in a meeting in Delhi that day. Earlier, ESA had collaborated with ISRO on Chandrayaan-1 mission to Moon."

The ESA has collaborated with 22 nations including India, China, Japan, Russia and the US in space missions.

esa

(Also Read: 5 Things About ISRO’s World Record Launch That Will Make You A Proud Indian)

15 space missions are already under pipeline where the ESA will send Bepe Colombo to Mercury in 2018 and Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer (JUICE) to Jupiter in 2022. The Mercury mission is a joint venture between the ESA and Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). According to McCaughrean, the Sun's gravity will pose a huge challenge while trying to put the spacecraft into Mercury's orbit.

esa

(Also Read: Tesla Founder Elon Musk Calls ISRO 'Awesome', Throws His Weight Behind Make In India!)

As far as JUICE is concerned, the spacecraft will spend 3 years observing the planet and 3 of its largest satellites - Ganymede, Callisto and Europa.

Then, the ambitious (JUICE) to Jupiter in 2022. The explorer will spend at least three years making detailed observations of the giant gaseous planet Jupiter and three of its largest moons. "The ice crust is much deeper and there may be forms of life in these moons," said McCaughrean.

He also explained how space missions to Neptune and Uranus will take time in planning as reaching there will easily take 20 to 30 years.

Don't Miss 19.5 K SHARES 126.2 K SHARES 40.3 K SHARES 59.6 K SHARES

With inputs from TOI