Anthony Davis Sets New NBA All-Star Game Scoring Record and Wins MVP Award
Anthony Davis Sets New NBA All-Star Game Scoring Record and Wins MVP Award
There’s never much defense played during the NBA All-Star Game. But on Sunday night, defense was at an all-time low during the 2017 NBA All-Star Game—the Western Conference beat the Eastern Conference 192-182—and as a result, there were a handful of players who put up ridiculous stat lines. Related The 25 Most Unbreakable Records in Sports History Not Happening: The 10 Most Unbreakable Records in Sports History The 25 Greatest Centers in NBA History Kyrie Irving scored 22 points. LeBron James dropped 23 points. And Giannis Antetokounmpo recorded 30 points. But two players stood out from all the rest, as Anthony Davis and Russell Westbrook both caught fire and threatened to break Wilt Chamberlain ’s long-standing record for most points scored in an All-Star Game when he dropped 42 points in 1962. And it was Davis who was ultimately able to break—and frankly, —the record by pouring in 52 points during the 2017 contest with a variety of alley-oops and putback dunks. #TeamWest wins! @AntDavis23 finishes with an @NBAAllStar record 52 points!! #KiaAllStarMVP  #AnthonyDavis  pic.twitter.com/1HtyrMk8fq Davis shot 26-for-39 from the field en route to his 52-point performance. And thanks to his explosive offensive output, he was able to win the 2017 NBA All-Star Game MVP trophy. It’s Davis’ first All-Star Game MVP award, and he actually snapped a streak that saw Westbrook win the last two All-Star Game MVP awards by taking home the trophy this season. After the game, Davis admitted that he had his sights set on breaking Chamberlain’s record during the game. "When I came out in the third quarter and I had 32, I told the guys I wanted to get 50," Davis said. History made in 2017 #NBAAllStar Game. #AnthonyDavis  pic.twitter.com/5Yp7WZuOjC Chamberlain’s record stood for more than 50 years. But after seeing the way the East and West played defense on Sunday, we wouldn’t be surprised to see Davis’ record fall quickly in the coming seasons. But for now, the record belongs to the Pelicans superstar.  sportstips@complex.com

There’s never much defense played during the NBA All-Star Game. But on Sunday night, defense was at an all-time low during the 2017 NBA All-Star Game—the Western Conference beat the Eastern Conference 192-182—and as a result, there were a handful of players who put up ridiculous stat lines.

Kyrie Irving scored 22 points. LeBron James dropped 23 points. And Giannis Antetokounmpo recorded 30 points. But two players stood out from all the rest, as Anthony Davis and Russell Westbrook both caught fire and threatened to break Wilt Chamberlain’s long-standing record for most points scored in an All-Star Game when he dropped 42 points in 1962. And it was Davis who was ultimately able to break—and frankly, shatter—the record by pouring in 52 points during the 2017 contest with a variety of alley-oops and putback dunks.

Davis shot 26-for-39 from the field en route to his 52-point performance. And thanks to his explosive offensive output, he was able to win the 2017 NBA All-Star Game MVP trophy. It’s Davis’ first All-Star Game MVP award, and he actually snapped a streak that saw Westbrook win the last two All-Star Game MVP awards by taking home the trophy this season.

After the game, Davis admitted that he had his sights set on breaking Chamberlain’s record during the game. "When I came out in the third quarter and I had 32, I told the guys I wanted to get 50," Davis said.

Chamberlain’s record stood for more than 50 years. But after seeing the way the East and West played defense on Sunday, we wouldn’t be surprised to see Davis’ record fall quickly in the coming seasons. But for now, the record belongs to the Pelicans superstar.



Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.