Kevin Durant, Russell Westbrook connect on lob during All-Star Game
Kevin Durant, Russell Westbrook connect on lob during All-Star Game
Kevin Durant, Russell Westbrook connect on lob during All-Star Game All-Star Fashion in New Orleans Anthony Davis has come a long way as New Orleans' main attraction For Brad Stevens, trip is chance to build All-Star relationships LeBron James' plan to become King of Hollywood Grading the 2017 Slam Dunk Contest D. Robinson, G. Hill honored at Legends Brunch Aaron Gordon's drone act sets tone for All-Star dunk contest buzzkill Pelton mail: Where would Okafor fit best? Silver 'disheartened' by current Oakley-Dolan status Vote: Pick the winning All-Star team and game MVP Jamal Murray is a shooting star, and all the World loves it As his stature grows, Isaiah Thomas is dreaming bigger Ten things I like and don't like, including James Harden's TD passes Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment After weeks of speculation and a couple days of apparent tension before Sunday's All-Star Game in New Orleans, all eyes were on what would happen when Golden State Warriors forward Kevin Durant and Oklahoma City Thunder guard Russell Westbrook shared the floor together. They answered that question quickly, as Durant fed Westbrook for a lob with 4 minutes, 58 seconds left in the first quarter, just a minute after Westbrook checked into for the first time. #KevinDurant up top for #RussellWestbrook for #TeamWEST ! #NBAAllStar  @NBAonTNT  pic.twitter.com/lXDtN6hIfu — NBA (@NBA) February 20, 2017 During a timeout later in the quarter, the TNT broadcast showed Western Conference All-Stars DeAndre Jordan and DeMarcus Cousins clapping and lauding Durant and Westbrook for passing to each other and scoring. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

After weeks of speculation and a couple days of apparent tension before Sunday's All-Star Game in New Orleans, all eyes were on what would happen when Golden State Warriors forward Kevin Durant and Oklahoma City Thunder guard Russell Westbrook shared the floor together.

They answered that question quickly, as Durant fed Westbrook for a lob with 4 minutes, 58 seconds left in the first quarter, just a minute after Westbrook checked into for the first time.

During a timeout later in the quarter, the TNT broadcast showed Western Conference All-Stars DeAndre Jordan and DeMarcus Cousins clapping and lauding Durant and Westbrook for passing to each other and scoring.