J. Cole Signs Atlanta Rapper J.I.D to Dreamville
J. Cole Signs Atlanta Rapper J.I.D to Dreamville
It looks like J. Cole 's Dreamville team has expanded. On Sunday evening, a two-minute video was uploaded to the official Dreamville YouTube page featuring Atlanta rapper J.I.D of Spillage Village, with the description: New Dreamville artist J.I.D project coming soon. The video also features Cole riding around in a Pontiac with J.I.D. Cole has been a supporter of Spillage Village in the past, working with the collective on their recent project . Clearly he was impressed with J.I.D in particular, who now joins the ranks of Bas, Cozz, and more. It's unclear at this time if all of Spillage Village will be involved with Dreamville at some point. Related J. Cole Drops Brand New Song "High for Hours" "The Album Is Largely From a Perspective That Isn't J. Cole's": Producer Elite on '4 Your Eyez Only' J. Cole's Manager Says Controversy Over "Déjà Vu" Beat 'Was None of Our Concern' The last time Dreamville signed a new artist was back in December of 2015, when both Lute and Ari Lennox joined the label . We haven't heard much from Lute since, while Lennox released her EP back in October . This latest Dreamville news follows Cole's recent album , which debuted at No. 1 and spawned the hit single "Deja Vu." We'll update this story as more information is shared. Our brother on Dreamville. Spillage Village Forever. https://t.co/QuO9aMDW8f My guyza https://t.co/S2jF5k8rIs "NEVER" video tomorrow 1PM EST pic.twitter.com/IywAZbjSgw

It looks like J. Cole's Dreamville team has expanded. On Sunday evening, a two-minute video was uploaded to the official Dreamville YouTube page featuring Atlanta rapper J.I.D of Spillage Village, with the description:

New Dreamville artist J.I.D project The Never Story coming soon.

The video also features Cole riding around in a Pontiac with J.I.D.

Cole has been a supporter of Spillage Village in the past, working with the collective on their recent project Bears Like This Too Much. Clearly he was impressed with J.I.D in particular, who now joins the ranks of Bas, Cozz, and more. It's unclear at this time if all of Spillage Village will be involved with Dreamville at some point.

The last time Dreamville signed a new artist was back in December of 2015, when both Lute and Ari Lennox joined the label. We haven't heard much from Lute since, while Lennox released her Pho EP back in October.

This latest Dreamville news follows Cole's recent album 4 Your Eyez Only, which debuted at No. 1 and spawned the hit single "Deja Vu."

We'll update this story as more information is shared.