National Trust blamed for visitors urinating on Avebury stones after deciding to close loos at 4pm
National Trust blamed for visitors urinating on Avebury stones after deciding to close loos at 4pm
he National Trust is being blamed for visitors urinating on Europe's largest stone circle after deciding to shut its loos early. Locals in the village of Avebury in Wiltshire say the 5,000-year-old monuments are being damaged by tourists who are getting caught short. The residents say it's down to the National Trust only opening the doors to the toilets in its museum from 10am to 4pm each day. hey say some of the 250,000 annual visitors to the World Heritage Site in Wiltshire are instead using the rocks as a loo. Tourists are now resorting to relieving themselves in the local Red Lion pub or B&Bs - or if that's not possible, in car parks, the street, or near the ancient stone circle. Parishioners have called for the loos in the village to be open longer and for another toilet block, which was shut due to its poor condition, to be reopened. llr Jemima Milton, who sits on Wiltshire Council and represents the Avebury ward, said: "This is a really revolting problem to have. "If something is not done, this will continue to plague Avebury and this beautiful heritage site. "If I was going to a World Heritage Site, that attracts 250,000 people a year, I would assume there would be toilets somewhere but they all close after 4pm. "It is just disgusting but really if they have nowhere else to go, this can happen. "People have been knocking on people's homes and using the pub but that we should not be in this situation, it is not very pleasant." An Avebury woman, who runs accommodation in the village and asked not to be named, said tourists often wander into local businesses to use the facilities. he said: "My son's bedroom overlooks the car park and he always sees people peeing there. I see somebody practically every day and it is horrible "I've got a couple of dogs and I'm out a lot and I do see people having a wee. People obviously do other things as well because you find bits of tissue roll. "It impacts the beauty of the site." Retired farm worker and bellringer Heather Peak-Garland, 86, who has lived in Avebury all her life, also blamed the National Trust. She said: "There's nowhere in the main streets that you can go to the toilet and it is terribly uncomfortable at times. "I don't see it too often because I haven't been well but it is terrible when it's solstice and things like that. "I really think you have to blame the National Trust. They get all these people to come to the village and don't look after them. "It does crop up between locals and they would all blame the National Trust." "On the plus side, the wildflowers near the stone circle no longer grow and perhaps weeing on them might make them grow," she quipped. vebury is a Neolithic henge monument which was constructed over several hundred years in the 3rd millennium BC. It contains three stone circles, one of which is the largest Europe, and is one of Britain's best known prehistoric sites. The stones - as well as the nearby village, which is home to around 500 people - are managed by the National Trust. Some 350,000 annual visitors flock to the area according to Wiltshire Council, and as well as being a tourist attraction, it's a place of religious importance to pagans. The National Trust said it is refurbishing three sets of toilets in Avebury and work should be completed by March. Avebury Parish Council, Marlborough Area Board and local benefactors have pledged £3,000 to help set up a partnership scheme with the National Trust. This is to keep the toilets at the museum and another site, both just off the High Street, open for longer than just 10am to 4pm every day. They also want the old toilet block at the coach house on the high street, which is currently closed, to be opened. General manager Janet Tomlin said: "I am delighted to confirm that we are nearing the end of a refurbishment programme to improve all three National Trust toilet facilities at Avebury. "We hope that these works will be finished by March."

Cllr Jemima Milton, who sits on Wiltshire Council and represents the Avebury ward, said: "This is a really revolting problem to have.

"If something is not done, this will continue to plague Avebury and this beautiful heritage site.

"If I was going to a World Heritage Site, that attracts 250,000 people a year, I would assume there would be toilets somewhere but they all close after 4pm.

"It is just disgusting but really if they have nowhere else to go, this can happen.

"People have been knocking on people's homes and using the pub but that we should not be in this situation, it is not very pleasant."

An Avebury woman, who runs accommodation in the village and asked not to be named, said tourists often wander into local businesses to use the facilities.