Boston police build a kitty condo for stray cat they've dubbed 'SWAT Cat'
Police build a kitty condo for stray cat they've dubbed 'SWAT Cat'
Shares               The Boston Police Department is making sure their mascot is taken care of during these winter months. Officers in the Roxbury neighborhood of Boston have been feeding and caring for a stray calico cat they've dubbed SWAT Cat, who's been stopping into the department's Special Weapons and Tactics base since 2013, according to the department's website .       One officer told ABC News that after SWAT Cat went missing for a few months, they decided to create a kitty condo to ensure she has a comfortable place to relax while visiting the police department.   "Officer Jamie Pietroski, a 15-year veteran of the Boston Police Department, stayed late after work for several nights painstakingly preparing SWAT Cat's new home," the website read. Last week, the kitty condo was debuted. It was perfect since the area was recently hit with a snow storm.   "The condo features a spacious studio interior layout, a large deck for outdoor dining and glass sliding doors offering panoramic city views," the police department's website said. The department noted that SWAT Cat didn't hesitate to move into her new condo. Shares                  Police build a kitty condo for stray cat they've dubbed 'SWAT Cat'   Severe storm leaves nearly 40,000 without power in San Antonio   US Defense Secretary Mattis: No plan to seize Iraqi oil   Immigration rallies held around US to support Muslims   Scientists hold rally in Boston to protest threat to science   N. Korean envoy blasts Malaysians, calls for joint probe   Blast in Somalia kills 34 in Mogadishu marketplace   Ex-officials: Israeli leader spurned secret peace offer   US vice president visits former Nazi concentration camp   Russia recognizes passports from Ukrainian separatists, stoking annexation fears   Iran dismisses new US pressure, calls for 'mutual respect'   High profile gymnasts come forward, claim abuse by doctor   14 on Philippine camping trip killed in bus accident   London mayor: 'Cruel' Trump should be denied state visit   Malaysia recalls ambassador to North Korea   Recent developments surrounding the South China Sea   New Zealand judge upholds Kim Dotcom extradition ruling   Ruling party candidate leads in Ecuador's presidential vote   SpaceX launches rocket from NASA's historic moon pad   Iraq launches offensive to liberate western Mosul   Woman in diabetic shock airlifted by Coast Guard from cruise ship   State trooper catches driver using mannequin in HOV lane   Prosecutors say malnutrition killing inmates in Haiti jails   'La La Land' and 'Hacksaw Ridge' editors reveal movie secrets   Zoe Saldana welcomes third child, Zen   Cats get purr-fect retro glamour shots to help them get adopted

The Boston Police Department is making sure their mascot is taken care of during these winter months.

Officers in the Roxbury neighborhood of Boston have been feeding and caring for a stray calico cat they've dubbed SWAT Cat, who's been stopping into the department's Special Weapons and Tactics base since 2013, according to the department's website.

Boston Police Department

One officer told ABC News that after SWAT Cat went missing for a few months, they decided to create a kitty condo to ensure she has a comfortable place to relax while visiting the police department.

Boston Police Department

"Officer Jamie Pietroski, a 15-year veteran of the Boston Police Department, stayed late after work for several nights painstakingly preparing SWAT Cat's new home," the website read.

Last week, the kitty condo was debuted. It was perfect since the area was recently hit with a snow storm.

Boston Police Department

"The condo features a spacious studio interior layout, a large deck for outdoor dining and glass sliding doors offering panoramic city views," the police department's website said.

The department noted that SWAT Cat didn't hesitate to move into her new condo.