Separatists In Kashmir Consider Cancelling Friday Protest As It Coincides With Mahashivratri
Separatists In Kashmir Consider Cancelling Friday Protest As It Coincides With Mahashivratri
Separatists In Kashmir Consider Cancelling Friday Protest As It Coincides With Mahashivratri Kashmiri Separatist known for their hostile approach towards India are mulling to hold the routine Friday protest in the valley this week because festival of Mahashivratri falls on Friday, February 24th. The Separatist organise protests against Indian establishment in Srinagar on every Friday. "We weren't aware that the Shivratri festival falls on (the) coming Friday (February 24). But when the issue was reported, we took the matter as urgent and started working on it," the Syed Ali Shah Geelani-led Hurriyat spokesperson Ayaz Akbar told TOI today. That's why an earlier calendar last week scheduled the protests on February 24. "We have time still. We have taken note and will reschedule protest soon," he added. Meanwhile, other constituent parties, including the Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-led Hurriyat, also expressed their concern over the protest date coinciding with the Hindu festival. They too have extended support to the Hindu community in the state. "The issue is under consideration and new date will be announced soon," the Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-led Hurriyat spokesperson Shahid-ul-Islam told TOI. "We haven't issued any bandh on the date", he added. The Jammu and Kashmir Police, while issuing advisories to ensure peaceful celebration of the Mahashivratri, appealed to the people of Jammu region to cooperate in maintaining security. While directing police personnel deployed to remain extra vigilant, a senior police official asked them to perform regular foot patrolling all day and night. Police have also asked people to cooperate at frisking points and tell about the miscreants. "The people have been asked to remain vigilant while travelling in passenger vehicles (or in) crowded areas (especially the places of worship)," the senior police officer said. He added that people have been asked to not touch any abandoned objects and to inform police if they see any suspicious persons or objects."If you have any information about any anti-national, anti-social elements (who can disturb the holy occasion of Shivratri) please inform the police immediately. Identity of informant shall be kept confidential," he said. Mahashivratri is a Hindu festival celebrated annually in honour of the god Shiva.

Kashmiri Separatist known for their hostile approach towards India are mulling to hold the routine Friday protest in the valley this week because festival of Mahashivratri falls on Friday, February 24th. The Separatist organise protests against Indian establishment in Srinagar on every Friday.

"We weren't aware that the Shivratri festival falls on (the) coming Friday (February 24). But when the issue was reported, we took the matter as urgent and started working on it," the Syed Ali Shah Geelani-led Hurriyat spokesperson Ayaz Akbar told TOI today.

AFP

That's why an earlier calendar last week scheduled the protests on February 24. "We have time still. We have taken note and will reschedule protest soon," he added.

Meanwhile, other constituent parties, including the Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-led Hurriyat, also expressed their concern over the protest date coinciding with the Hindu festival. They too have extended support to the Hindu community in the state.

"The issue is under consideration and new date will be announced soon," the Mirwaiz Umar Farooq-led Hurriyat spokesperson Shahid-ul-Islam told TOI. "We haven't issued any bandh on the date", he added. The Jammu and Kashmir Police, while issuing advisories to ensure peaceful celebration of the Mahashivratri, appealed to the people of Jammu region to cooperate in maintaining security.

AFP

While directing police personnel deployed to remain extra vigilant, a senior police official asked them to perform regular foot patrolling all day and night. Police have also asked people to cooperate at frisking points and tell about the miscreants. "The people have been asked to remain vigilant while travelling in passenger vehicles (or in) crowded areas (especially the places of worship)," the senior police officer said.

He added that people have been asked to not touch any abandoned objects and to inform police if they see any suspicious persons or objects."If you have any information about any anti-national, anti-social elements (who can disturb the holy occasion of Shivratri) please inform the police immediately. Identity of informant shall be kept confidential," he said.

Mahashivratri is a Hindu festival celebrated annually in honour of the god Shiva.