Iran's foreign minister mocks Donald Trump 'putting him on notice'
Iran's foreign minister mocks Donald Trump 'putting him on notice'
Iran’s foreign minister has mocked being “put on notice” in a tweet by Donald Trump and dismissed mounting pressure coming from Washington. Mohammad Javad Zarif drew laughter from an audience at an international security conference in Munich when, referring to the President's post, he said the “tweet is now very fashionable’’. Mr Trump had warned the Gulf nation it was “formally put on notice” on earlier in February after it tested a ballistic missile. The Trump administration then imposed sanctions on individuals and groups linked to the country's Revolutionary Guards. “We don’t respond well to threats, we don’t respond well to coercion and we don’t respond well to sanctions,” Mr Zarif told the meeting. “Crippling sanctions produced a net total of 19,800 centrifuges.” During his campaign, Mr Trump called a nuclear deal between several world powers and Iran was “one of the dumbest deals ever” and vowed to swiftly dismantle it. Iran has kept its part of the deal and significantly reduced its nuclear capacity, according to international monitors. Tensions around the accord were further raised on Sunday when Vice President Mike Pence suggested Tehran was freeing resources to promote terrorism. Mr Pence also repeatedly referred to “radical Islamic terrorism”, aggravating critics who felt the Trump administration was targeting people for their faith. German Chancellor Angela Merkel had used a speech to warn against such language just before Mr Pence spoke. It emerged on Sunday that Republican senators were planning to introduce legislation that would impose harsher sanctions on the Islamic Republic, saying its testing of ballistic missiles violated UN Security Council resolutions. “I think it is now time for the Congress to take Iran on directly in terms of what they’ve done outside the nuclear programme,” Senator Lindsey Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, told the security conference. Mr Graham vowed to take punitive action against Tehran, which he blamed for destabilising the Middle East. “Iran is a bad actor in the greatest sense of the word when it comes to the region," he told the same security conference. "To Iran, I say, if you want us to treat you differently then stop building missiles, test-firing them in defiance of UN resolution and writing 'Death to Israel' on the missile. "That's a mixed message.” World news in pictures               World news in pictures    14 February 2017   Aerial view of the wreckage of a passenger and freight train after a crash near Bettembourg, Luxembourg   Reuters     14 February 2017   A general view of rescue workers at the scene of a train collision in Dudelange, Luxembourg   EPA     14 February 2017   A man walks next the wreckage of a passenger and freight train after a crash near Bettembourg, Luxembourg   Reuters     14 February 2017   People wait for news of the rescue efforts at Zubao Coal Mine after a blast in Lianyuan, Hunan province, China. A midnight explosion at the mine killed nine miners and three still missing   EPA     14 February 2017   Former British war correspondent David Fox speaks to his lawyer as he waits in a holding cell to attend his ongoing trial at a court in Denpasar on Indonesia's resort island of Bali.
Fox, who was charged along with an Australian businessman with using, possessing and transporting hashish last October, could be jailed for several years if found guilty   Getty Images     14 February 2017   Former British war correspondent David Fox (R) walks to a holding cell after arriving from Kerobokan prison with other prisoners before attending his ongoing trial at a court in Denpasar on Indonesia's resort island of Bali.  Fox, who was charged along with an Australian businessman with using, possessing and transporting hashish last October, could be jailed for several years if found guilty   Getty Images     14 February 2017   US Army personnel offload military equipment at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base near Constanta in Romania.  Soldiers and equipment from the 3rd Armored Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, arrived at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base as part of the ongoing Atlantic Resolve mission. The combined arms unit of the "Fighting Eagles" brings a full complement of 500 US troops, a US Army infantry battalion's M1 Abrams tanks, M2 Bradley fighting vehicles, and M109A6 Paladin self-propelled howitzers to Romania   Getty Images     14 February 2017   Kim Jong-Nam, the half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un has been assassinated in Malaysia, South Korean media reported   Getty Images     14 February 2017   A Greenpeace activist holds a banner which reads "EDF is bankrupt" in front of the France's state-owned electricity company EDF headquarters during the company's 2016 annual results presentation in Paris, France   Reuters     14 February 2017   A Greenpeace activist holds a placard reading in French "Bankruptcy, Jean-Bernard, out of the nuclear" during the presentation of EDF group's 2016 results in Pari   AP     14 February 2017   y personnel offload military equipment at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base near Constanta in Romania   Getty Images     13 February 2017   A building is seen submerged in flowing water at Riverbend Park as the Oroville Dam releases water down the spillway as an emergency measure in Oroville, California   Getty Images     13 February 2017   Crews work on a damaged section of the Oroville Dam in Oroville, California   Getty Images     7 February 2017   The remains of a car burnt by protesters on Monday night, in Aulnay-sous-Bois, north of Paris, France. French police say over 20 protesters were detained during an eruption of violence against police in the Paris suburbs in which a police car was torched. The violence in the night of Monday to Tuesday is a show of outrage in support of a young black man who authorities allege was sodomised by a police officer's baton   Getty Images     7 February 2017   Pakistani Security officials inspect the scene of a bomb blast that targeted a Frontier Corps vehicle near the Afghan border in Chaman, Pakistan.   At least two Frontier Corps personnel were wounded when a bomb, planted on a road side, exploded as convoy of Pakistani security forces was passing nearby in Chaman   EPA     7 February 2017   An Israeli border policeman walks near workers lifting a housing unit with a crane during the demolition of the illegal Jewish settlement of Amona at the West Bank.  Israeli police completed the evacuation of Jewish settlers from the West Bank settlement of Amona in compliance with an Israeli court order that ruled the settlement illegal   EPA     7 February 2017   Israeli settler Tamar Nizri cries after her housing unite (L) was destroyed by an Israeli bulldozer during the demolition of the illegal Jewish settlement of Amona at the West Bank   EPA     7 February 2017   Pakistani Security officials inspect the scene of a bomb blast that targeted a Frontier Corps vehicle near the Afghan border in Chaman, Pakistan   EPA     7 February 2017   Civil defense members work at a site hit by airstrikes in the rebel-held city of Idlib, Syria   Reuters     7 February 2017   Military commanders salute during a meeting with Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, Iran   Reuters     6 February 2017   People hold a sign reading "Justice for Theo" during a protest in Aulnay-sous-Bois, northern Paris, a day after a French police officer was charged with the rape of a youth who was severely injured after allegedly being sodomised with a baton   Getty Images     5 February 2017   A Serbian woman looks on as  bulldozers take down a concrete wall near the main bridge in the town of Mitrovica, after the Kosovo government reached an agreement with country's ethnic Serb minority to resolve the issue of a contested wall symbolically dividing the city of Mitrovica   Getty Images     5 February 2017   Bulldozers demolish a wall following weeks of tensions between Kosovo and Serbia, in the ethnically divided town of Mitrovica, Kosovo   Reuters     5 February 2017   Libyan coast guard police help an Illegal immigrant and a child who were rescued at sea off the coast of Libya, get off a boat in the capital Tripoli   Getty Images     5 February 2017   Afghan youth shovel snow from the rooves of houses in Kabul, Afghanistan   Reuters     5 February 2017   Migrants warm themselves by a fire from the morning cold in an abandoned warehouse where they took refuge in Belgrade, Serbia.  Hundreds of migrants have been sleeping rough in freezing conditions in central Belgrade looking for ways to cross the heavily guarded EU borders   AP     4 February 2017   Soldiers destroy ten hectares of a marijuana plantation after the Mexican army found it, while patrolling the area in Mocorito, in Sinaloa State, Mexico   Reuters     4 February 2017   Ukrainian servicemen patrol at the humanitarian aid center in Avdiivka, Ukraine   AP     4 February 2017   A Ukrainian serviceman patrols at the humanitarian aid center in Avdiivka, Ukraine   AP  Senator Christopher Murphy, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told the panel there was nothing preventing Congress from imposing sanctions beyond those in place before the 2016 nuclear agreement with Iran. Mr Murphy, a Democrat, said he had backed the nuclear deal in the explicit understanding that it would not prevent Congress from taking actions against Iran for issues separate to its nuclear capabilities. “There's going to be a conversation about what the proportional response is,” Mr Murphy said, referring to Iran's missile test. “But I don't necessarily think there's going to be partisan division over whether or not we have the ability as a Congress to speak on issues outside of the nuclear agreement.” Mr Murphy said the US needed to decide whether it wanted to take a broader role in the regional conflict. “We have to make a decision whether we are going to get involved in the emerging proxy war in a bigger way than we are today, between Iran and Saudi,” he said. Iran was among the seven countries included in Mr Trump's travel ban targeting seven Muslim-majority nations. More about: Iran Iran nuclear deal Nuclear Iran sanctions sanctions Donald Trump Comments

Iran’s foreign minister has mocked being “put on notice” in a tweet by Donald Trump and dismissed mounting pressure coming from Washington.

Mohammad Javad Zarif drew laughter from an audience at an international security conference in Munich when, referring to the President's post, he said the “tweet is now very fashionable’’.

Mr Trump had warned the Gulf nation it was “formally put on notice” on earlier in February after it tested a ballistic missile.

'Crippling sanctions produced a net total of 19,800 centrifuges,' foreign minister tells conference (AFP/ Getty )

The Trump administration then imposed sanctions on individuals and groups linked to the country's Revolutionary Guards.

“We don’t respond well to threats, we don’t respond well to coercion and we don’t respond well to sanctions,” Mr Zarif told the meeting.

“Crippling sanctions produced a net total of 19,800 centrifuges.”

During his campaign, Mr Trump called a nuclear deal between several world powers and Iran was “one of the dumbest deals ever” and vowed to swiftly dismantle it.

Iran has kept its part of the deal and significantly reduced its nuclear capacity, according to international monitors.

Michael Flynn: We're officially putting Iran on notice

Tensions around the accord were further raised on Sunday when Vice President Mike Pence suggested Tehran was freeing resources to promote terrorism.

Mr Pence also repeatedly referred to “radical Islamic terrorism”, aggravating critics who felt the Trump administration was targeting people for their faith.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel had used a speech to warn against such language just before Mr Pence spoke.

It emerged on Sunday that Republican senators were planning to introduce legislation that would impose harsher sanctions on the Islamic Republic, saying its testing of ballistic missiles violated UN Security Council resolutions.

“I think it is now time for the Congress to take Iran on directly in terms of what they’ve done outside the nuclear programme,” Senator Lindsey Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, told the security conference.

Mr Graham vowed to take punitive action against Tehran, which he blamed for destabilising the Middle East.

“Iran is a bad actor in the greatest sense of the word when it comes to the region," he told the same security conference.

"To Iran, I say, if you want us to treat you differently then stop building missiles, test-firing them in defiance of UN resolution and writing 'Death to Israel' on the missile.

"That's a mixed message.”

World news in pictures







29 show all World news in pictures























































1/29 14 February 2017 Aerial view of the wreckage of a passenger and freight train after a crash near Bettembourg, Luxembourg Reuters

2/29 14 February 2017 A general view of rescue workers at the scene of a train collision in Dudelange, Luxembourg EPA

3/29 14 February 2017 A man walks next the wreckage of a passenger and freight train after a crash near Bettembourg, Luxembourg Reuters

4/29 14 February 2017 People wait for news of the rescue efforts at Zubao Coal Mine after a blast in Lianyuan, Hunan province, China. A midnight explosion at the mine killed nine miners and three still missing EPA

5/29 14 February 2017 Former British war correspondent David Fox speaks to his lawyer as he waits in a holding cell to attend his ongoing trial at a court in Denpasar on Indonesia's resort island of Bali. Fox, who was charged along with an Australian businessman with using, possessing and transporting hashish last October, could be jailed for several years if found guilty Getty Images

6/29 14 February 2017 Former British war correspondent David Fox (R) walks to a holding cell after arriving from Kerobokan prison with other prisoners before attending his ongoing trial at a court in Denpasar on Indonesia's resort island of Bali. Fox, who was charged along with an Australian businessman with using, possessing and transporting hashish last October, could be jailed for several years if found guilty Getty Images

7/29 14 February 2017 US Army personnel offload military equipment at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base near Constanta in Romania. Soldiers and equipment from the 3rd Armored Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, arrived at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base as part of the ongoing Atlantic Resolve mission. The combined arms unit of the "Fighting Eagles" brings a full complement of 500 US troops, a US Army infantry battalion's M1 Abrams tanks, M2 Bradley fighting vehicles, and M109A6 Paladin self-propelled howitzers to Romania Getty Images

8/29 14 February 2017 Kim Jong-Nam, the half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un has been assassinated in Malaysia, South Korean media reported Getty Images

9/29 14 February 2017 A Greenpeace activist holds a banner which reads "EDF is bankrupt" in front of the France's state-owned electricity company EDF headquarters during the company's 2016 annual results presentation in Paris, France Reuters

10/29 14 February 2017 A Greenpeace activist holds a placard reading in French "Bankruptcy, Jean-Bernard, out of the nuclear" during the presentation of EDF group's 2016 results in Pari AP

11/29 14 February 2017 y personnel offload military equipment at the Mihail Kogalniceanu Air Base near Constanta in Romania Getty Images

12/29 13 February 2017 A building is seen submerged in flowing water at Riverbend Park as the Oroville Dam releases water down the spillway as an emergency measure in Oroville, California Getty Images

13/29 13 February 2017 Crews work on a damaged section of the Oroville Dam in Oroville, California Getty Images

14/29 7 February 2017 The remains of a car burnt by protesters on Monday night, in Aulnay-sous-Bois, north of Paris, France. French police say over 20 protesters were detained during an eruption of violence against police in the Paris suburbs in which a police car was torched. The violence in the night of Monday to Tuesday is a show of outrage in support of a young black man who authorities allege was sodomised by a police officer's baton Getty Images

15/29 7 February 2017 Pakistani Security officials inspect the scene of a bomb blast that targeted a Frontier Corps vehicle near the Afghan border in Chaman, Pakistan. At least two Frontier Corps personnel were wounded when a bomb, planted on a road side, exploded as convoy of Pakistani security forces was passing nearby in Chaman EPA

16/29 7 February 2017 An Israeli border policeman walks near workers lifting a housing unit with a crane during the demolition of the illegal Jewish settlement of Amona at the West Bank. Israeli police completed the evacuation of Jewish settlers from the West Bank settlement of Amona in compliance with an Israeli court order that ruled the settlement illegal EPA

17/29 7 February 2017 Israeli settler Tamar Nizri cries after her housing unite (L) was destroyed by an Israeli bulldozer during the demolition of the illegal Jewish settlement of Amona at the West Bank EPA

18/29 7 February 2017 Pakistani Security officials inspect the scene of a bomb blast that targeted a Frontier Corps vehicle near the Afghan border in Chaman, Pakistan EPA

19/29 7 February 2017 Civil defense members work at a site hit by airstrikes in the rebel-held city of Idlib, Syria Reuters

20/29 7 February 2017 Military commanders salute during a meeting with Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, Iran Reuters

21/29 6 February 2017 People hold a sign reading "Justice for Theo" during a protest in Aulnay-sous-Bois, northern Paris, a day after a French police officer was charged with the rape of a youth who was severely injured after allegedly being sodomised with a baton Getty Images

22/29 5 February 2017 A Serbian woman looks on as bulldozers take down a concrete wall near the main bridge in the town of Mitrovica, after the Kosovo government reached an agreement with country's ethnic Serb minority to resolve the issue of a contested wall symbolically dividing the city of Mitrovica Getty Images

23/29 5 February 2017 Bulldozers demolish a wall following weeks of tensions between Kosovo and Serbia, in the ethnically divided town of Mitrovica, Kosovo Reuters

24/29 5 February 2017 Libyan coast guard police help an Illegal immigrant and a child who were rescued at sea off the coast of Libya, get off a boat in the capital Tripoli Getty Images

25/29 5 February 2017 Afghan youth shovel snow from the rooves of houses in Kabul, Afghanistan Reuters

26/29 5 February 2017 Migrants warm themselves by a fire from the morning cold in an abandoned warehouse where they took refuge in Belgrade, Serbia. Hundreds of migrants have been sleeping rough in freezing conditions in central Belgrade looking for ways to cross the heavily guarded EU borders AP

27/29 4 February 2017 Soldiers destroy ten hectares of a marijuana plantation after the Mexican army found it, while patrolling the area in Mocorito, in Sinaloa State, Mexico Reuters

28/29 4 February 2017 Ukrainian servicemen patrol at the humanitarian aid center in Avdiivka, Ukraine AP

29/29 4 February 2017 A Ukrainian serviceman patrols at the humanitarian aid center in Avdiivka, Ukraine AP

Senator Christopher Murphy, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told the panel there was nothing preventing Congress from imposing sanctions beyond those in place before the 2016 nuclear agreement with Iran.

Mr Murphy, a Democrat, said he had backed the nuclear deal in the explicit understanding that it would not prevent Congress from taking actions against Iran for issues separate to its nuclear capabilities.

“There's going to be a conversation about what the proportional response is,” Mr Murphy said, referring to Iran's missile test.

“But I don't necessarily think there's going to be partisan division over whether or not we have the ability as a Congress to speak on issues outside of the nuclear agreement.”

Mr Murphy said the US needed to decide whether it wanted to take a broader role in the regional conflict.

“We have to make a decision whether we are going to get involved in the emerging proxy war in a bigger way than we are today, between Iran and Saudi,” he said.

Iran was among the seven countries included in Mr Trump's travel ban targeting seven Muslim-majority nations.