Donald Trump ‘has fanned the flames of intolerance,’ says Republican Mark Sanford

In a candid and lengthy interview with Politico Magazine , Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) said that Donald Trump has “fanned the flames of intolerance,” one of a string of criticisms that the former governor leveled at the president. In the interview with Tim Alberta , which can be found here , Sanford said that “at some level” Trump “represents the antithesis, or the undoing, of everything I thought I knew about politics, preparation and life.” You should definitely read the full piece (again, check it out here ), but here are a few snippets of what Sanford, the former governor of South Carolina, said about Trump: His digs at Trump cover the spectrum. The president, Sanford says, “has fanned the flames of intolerance.” He has repeatedly misled the public, most recently about the national murder rate and the media’s coverage of terrorist attacks. He showed a lack of humility by using the National Prayer Breakfast to ridicule Arnold Schwarzenegger’s ratings on “The Celebrity Apprentice.” Most worrisome, Sanford says, Trump is unprepared for the presidency. And, later on in the piece, Alberta writes : Sanford says he’s spoken with Trump only once, and the interaction was brief, backstage at a primary debate in South Carolina. “I’ve watched you. You’re a winner,” Trump told him, as Sanford recalls. He rolls his eyes. “It’s like, .” Sanford swears he has nothing personal against the new president; in fact, he’s heard good things about him personally from several mutual acquaintances. But, he says, he can’t “look the other way” as Trump peddles false information to suit his political aims. When Alberta asked whether Trump was an “honest man,” Sanford replied that he had to be careful. “Because people who live in glass houses can’t throw stones,” Sanford said. His comments on Trump and honesty might seem noteworthy because Sanford in 2009 confessed that he had been involved in an extramarital affair with a woman in Argentina, a scandal that destroyed his marriage and, for a time, his political career . Sanford at the time made headlines when he went missing for days , a disappearance that his office initially attributed to a hike along the Appalachian Trail . After he returned, he admitted that he had traveled to Argentina to see the woman with whom he was having an affair. He was at one point engaged to that woman, Maria Belen Chapur, but in 2014 announced that the engagement had been called off. Mark Sanford has a grim outlook on the societal implications of Trump's relationship with "facts" and "reason" https://t.co/9A0pEFB0ea  pic.twitter.com/p2LmxPzI7S — Tim Alberta (@TimAlberta) February 17, 2017 Sanford also suggested that he was somewhat disappointed with House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) in the wake of Trump's victory. “I admired his conviction in the campaign,” Sanford told Politico Magazine of Ryan. But, according to the piece, he added, “At the end of the day, radio silence is not sustainable in being true to yourself.” Ryan's office did not immediately reply Friday to an email seeking comment about Sanford's remarks.  Here’s why Trump’s attacks on ‘fake news’ succeed The White House’s strangely strong denial that its ‘deportation force’ idea is back President Trump loved WikiLeaks. White House leaks? Not so much.



Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) in North Charleston, S.C., on Feb. 17. (Sean Rayford/Getty Images)

In a candid and lengthy interview with Politico Magazine, Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) said that Donald Trump has “fanned the flames of intolerance,” one of a string of criticisms that the former governor leveled at the president.

In the interview with Tim Alberta, which can be found here, Sanford said that “at some level” Trump “represents the antithesis, or the undoing, of everything I thought I knew about politics, preparation and life.”

You should definitely read the full piece (again, check it out here), but here are a few snippets of what Sanford, the former governor of South Carolina, said about Trump:

His digs at Trump cover the spectrum. The president, Sanford says, “has fanned the flames of intolerance.” He has repeatedly misled the public, most recently about the national murder rate and the media’s coverage of terrorist attacks. He showed a lack of humility by using the National Prayer Breakfast to ridicule Arnold Schwarzenegger’s ratings on “The Celebrity Apprentice.” Most worrisome, Sanford says, Trump is unprepared for the presidency.

And, later on in the piece, Alberta writes:

Sanford says he’s spoken with Trump only once, and the interaction was brief, backstage at a primary debate in South Carolina. “I’ve watched you. You’re a winner,” Trump told him, as Sanford recalls. He rolls his eyes. “It’s like, OK.” Sanford swears he has nothing personal against the new president; in fact, he’s heard good things about him personally from several mutual acquaintances. But, he says, he can’t “look the other way” as Trump peddles false information to suit his political aims.

When Alberta asked whether Trump was an “honest man,” Sanford replied that he had to be careful. “Because people who live in glass houses can’t throw stones,” Sanford said.

His comments on Trump and honesty might seem noteworthy because Sanford in 2009 confessed that he had been involved in an extramarital affair with a woman in Argentina, a scandal that destroyed his marriage and, for a time, his political career.

Sanford at the time made headlines when he went missing for days, a disappearance that his office initially attributed to a hike along the Appalachian Trail. After he returned, he admitted that he had traveled to Argentina to see the woman with whom he was having an affair. He was at one point engaged to that woman, Maria Belen Chapur, but in 2014 announced that the engagement had been called off.

Mark Sanford has a grim outlook on the societal implications of Trump's relationship with "facts" and "reason" https://t.co/9A0pEFB0ea pic.twitter.com/p2LmxPzI7S — Tim Alberta (@TimAlberta) February 17, 2017

Sanford also suggested that he was somewhat disappointed with House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) in the wake of Trump's victory.

“I admired his conviction in the campaign,” Sanford told Politico Magazine of Ryan. But, according to the piece, he added, “At the end of the day, radio silence is not sustainable in being true to yourself.”

Ryan's office did not immediately reply Friday to an email seeking comment about Sanford's remarks.

Read More:

Here’s why Trump’s attacks on ‘fake news’ succeed

The White House’s strangely strong denial that its ‘deportation force’ idea is back

President Trump loved WikiLeaks. White House leaks? Not so much.