7 Times Kangana Ranaut Roasted KJo Like A 'Queen' & Stunned Saif Ali Khan On Koffee With Karan 5!
7 Times Kangana Ranaut Roasted KJo Like A 'Queen' & Stunned Saif Ali Khan On Koffee With Karan!
7 Times Kangana Ranaut Roasted KJo Like A 'Queen' & Stunned Saif Ali Khan On Koffee With Karan 5! Truth be told, we are still recovering from last night’s episode of Koffee With Karan. The discussions about the explosive episode are going on in full swing with people applauding Kangana Ranaut and her extempore and wit albeit the weird accent. It takes a lot of guts to roast the ringmaster and do so in such a way that it doesn’t sound offensive. I mean come on, she took KJo for a ride at every opportunity she got. Giving her company was the ever suave and sophisticated actor Saif Ali Khan. Not one to indulge in any frivolous gossips or discussions, even he was visibly stunned by Kangana’s retorts and accusations oops one-liners! Here’s a dekko at some of the most controversial things that Kangana Ranaut said on Koffee With Karan: 1.From discussing skinny-dipping, indulging in experimental sex to being jealous of other actors’ success, Kangana confessed it all! Well, she drank to that. In the Koffee shots with Karan segment, Kangana did not bat even an eyelash before accepting most of the situations much to the dismay of Karan and Saif. 2. Kangana said that Karan Johar has verbal Diarrhea! This was one of the many things that Kangana said about host Karan Johar. The constant attacks led to KJo finally blurting out his feelings. He said,"Kangana has really attacked me on this show. I love that!". Well, if you say so Karan. 3. Kangana accused Karan of making fun of her English Right at the beginning of the episode and after Karan elaborately introduced the actress, she did not just thank him. She went on to add, "I'm so happy to hear this from you as well because you've been the driving force in my life. If it wasn't for your rejections and mocking and all those... of course you made fun of my English on this and you made fun of everything I'm not complaining about it. I'm just saying. Somewhere these things do drive you." Ouch! 4. When Karan tried to instigate Kangana but got shot down instead

Truth be told, we are still recovering from last night’s episode of Koffee With Karan. The discussions about the explosive episode are going on in full swing with people applauding Kangana Ranaut and her extempore and wit albeit the weird accent.

It takes a lot of guts to roast the ringmaster and do so in such a way that it doesn’t sound offensive. I mean come on, she took KJo for a ride at every opportunity she got. Giving her company was the ever suave and sophisticated actor Saif Ali Khan. Not one to indulge in any frivolous gossips or discussions, even he was visibly stunned by Kangana’s retorts and accusations oops one-liners!

Here’s a dekko at some of the most controversial things that Kangana Ranaut said on Koffee With Karan:

1.From discussing skinny-dipping, indulging in experimental sex to being jealous of other actors’ success, Kangana confessed it all!

Well, she drank to that. In the Koffee shots with Karan segment, Kangana did not bat even an eyelash before accepting most of the situations much to the dismay of Karan and Saif.

2. Kangana said that Karan Johar has verbal Diarrhea!

This was one of the many things that Kangana said about host Karan Johar. The constant attacks led to KJo finally blurting out his feelings. He said,"Kangana has really attacked me on this show. I love that!". Well, if you say so Karan.

3. Kangana accused Karan of making fun of her English

Right at the beginning of the episode and after Karan elaborately introduced the actress, she did not just thank him. She went on to add, "I'm so happy to hear this from you as well because you've been the driving force in my life. If it wasn't for your rejections and mocking and all those... of course you made fun of my English on this and you made fun of everything. I'm not complaining about it. I'm just saying. Somewhere these things do drive you." Ouch!

4. When Karan tried to instigate Kangana but got shot down instead

Don't Miss 621 SHARES 11.7 K SHARES 23.4 K SHARES 21.7 K SHARES

Well, trust Karan to innocently probe people and then make a mountain out of a molehill. He tried to do just that last night, when he told Kangana about what Alia had said about her on his show. Alia had said, "I love Kangana's airport look but I don't know where she is going."

Kangana very smartly deviated the scandal when she said, “Karan had asked Alia, who she would like to stalk? Karan is putting words in her mouth! And now Saif, you're putting words in my mouth to say something."

5. Kangana honestly confessed about fighting with her directors!(Subtle hint to KJo, well, maybe!)

She said, "If a set does not have creative conflict then something is not going righ.It's not about taking instructions, and going about doing things and pleasing people, it's about really collaborating and diving into it. I think my directors really like that about me. And the ones who don't I don't like them either".

6. According to Kangana, Karan Johar has an attitude problem. Okay, then!

During her maiden rapid fire round, Karan asked Kangana who gives her more attitude in the industry - Male co-actors or female co-actors, without even blinking once, Kangana replied Karan Johar.

7. In Kangana’s Biopic, Karan will play the antagonist

The actress went on to describe the role that Karan will play in her biopic if it’s ever made. She said, “In my biopic you’ll play the Bollywood biggie, who’s very snooty and completely intolerant to outsiders and the flag-bearer of nepotism, the movie mafia.”

(Images courtesy: Star World)