The best McDonald’s hacks revealed
The best McDonald’s hacks revealed


Former McDonald's workers have revealed the best hacks to use at the global fast food chain to help you get your hands on freshly cooked food and secret menu items, as well as saving money.

Requesting a burger without one ingredient means staff will have to make it freshly, rather than handing you one that's been sitting under the heat lamp, while the same trick works if you ask for unsalted fries.

Requesting a receipt will make employees think you're a secret shopper, so they'll serve you the freshest food - and quickly too.

And you can save money by ordering a cheap coffee and asking for a free refill of a more expensive hot drink, ordering the Happy Meal even if you're an adult and ordering a McDouble with Mac Sauce and lettuce to turn it into a Big Mac.

A Quora user asked: 'What are some favorite McDonald's hacks?' and 24 former workers and McDonald's fans replied with their insider tips (stock image)

Former staff also advised ordering a 'round egg' in your McDonald's breakfast if the item you're asking for usually contains a scrambled egg patty.

The 'round egg' is a poached egg that is usually reserved for the McMuffin range and staff said it's the best variety they have .

But it can be switched into any breakfast item at no additional charge, former workers said.

The hacks were shared by workers on question-and-answer website Quora from both the UK and the US, so not all will be applicable in both countries, but for the most part, their tips are universal.

This insider advised McDonald's fans to order a Quarter Pounder without one ingredient so that the chefs make a fresh burger for them

One user said if you ask for fries without salt, the staff will make a fresh batch for you. She added that you can order off the breakfast and lunch menu if you go at 10.35am

A user who worked at McDonald's in the UK wanted to make people aware of the free refill perk at McDonald's - and you can ask for a different drink to the one you've previously ordered

This user had several McDonald's secret menu hacks to share, including asking for a burger in a lettuce wrap

Another insider recommended ordering three flavours of milkshake in one drink

Brazilian McDonald's sell a secret menu dish of rice and beans to comply with local laws, according to one insider

In the UK, between 12pm and 2pm, and 5pm and 7pm, McDonald's workers are on high alert for mystery shoppers who always ask for a receipt. This insider says you'll get top quality fresh food if you ask for a receipt during these two times

This former McDonald's worker warned against asking for fries with no salt to get a fresh batch as it could cause hassle for the staff, but he said if you just ask directly, you can get fresh fries

This user said you can get a Big Mac for less than half the price by ordering a 'poor man's Big Mac' - a double cheeseburger with shredded lettuce and Big Mac sauce

One insider said to watch out for McDonald's staff overcharging diners for hash browns when adding them to their McBreakfast

A high school student who says she is a McDonald's worker says to order a poached round egg if ordering a McDonald's breakfast to replace the normal scrambled egg patty

One user suggesting swapping normal Big Mac patties with Quarter Pounder ones for a 'monster of a burger'