Ed Sheeran Tops Pop Songs Chart With 'Shape of You'
Ed Sheeran Tops Pop Songs Chart With 'Shape of You'
Ed Sheeran Tops Pop Songs Chart With 'Shape of You'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Sheeran scores his second No. 1 as an artist, and fourth as a writer. Ed Sheeran takes over atop 's Pop Songs radio airplay chart with "Shape of You," which climbs 2-1 on the list dated March 4. The song crowns the ranking with a 10 percent gain in plays among the chart's 166 mainstream top 40 reporters in the week ending Feb. 19, according to Nielsen Music. The track is Sheeran's second Pop Songs No. 1 as an artist, following "Thinking Out Loud," which led the March 21, 2015-dated list. "Shape" is Sheeran's fourth Pop Songs leader as a writer, however. In between his two toppers as a performer, two of his co-writes ruled in 2016: Justin Bieber 's "Love Yourself," for five weeks beginning on the Feb. 13 chart, and Major Lazer 's "Cold Water," featuring Bieber and MO (on the Oct. 1 chart). Also on Pop Songs, the chart's top two debuts are songs released mid-week last week: Maroon 5 's "Cold," featuring Future (No. 23), and Kygo and Selena Gomez 's "It Ain't Me" (No. 30). Back to "Shape": the song has led the airplay, streaming and sales-based Billboard Hot 100 for three nonconsecutive weeks and counting. Find out if the song remains atop the chart when highlights of the March 4-dated Hot 100's top 10 post tomorrow (Feb. 21) on Billboard.com. All charts will update on the site on Wednesday (Feb. 22, a day later than usual, due to today's President's Day holiday).  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Sheeran scores his second No. 1 as an artist, and fourth as a writer.

Ed Sheeran takes over atop Billboard's Pop Songs radio airplay chart with "Shape of You," which climbs 2-1 on the list dated March 4. The song crowns the ranking with a 10 percent gain in plays among the chart's 166 mainstream top 40 reporters in the week ending Feb. 19, according to Nielsen Music.

The track is Sheeran's second Pop Songs No. 1 as an artist, following "Thinking Out Loud," which led the March 21, 2015-dated list.

"Shape" is Sheeran's fourth Pop Songs leader as a writer, however. In between his two toppers as a performer, two of his co-writes ruled in 2016: Justin Bieber's "Love Yourself," for five weeks beginning on the Feb. 13 chart, and Major Lazer's "Cold Water," featuring Bieber and MO (on the Oct. 1 chart).

Also on Pop Songs, the chart's top two debuts are songs released mid-week last week: Maroon 5's "Cold," featuring Future (No. 23), and Kygo and Selena Gomez's "It Ain't Me" (No. 30).

Back to "Shape": the song has led the airplay, streaming and sales-based Billboard Hot 100 for three nonconsecutive weeks and counting. Find out if the song remains atop the chart when highlights of the March 4-dated Hot 100's top 10 post tomorrow (Feb. 21) on Billboard.com. All charts will update on the site on Wednesday (Feb. 22, a day later than usual, due to today's President's Day holiday).