Unilever-Colgate? Unilever-Nestle?
Unilever's Boldest Defense
Unilever-Colgate? Unilever-Nestle?   Deals  Chris Hughes is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering deals. He previously worked for Reuters Breakingviews, as well as the Financial Times and the Independent newspaper. Andrea Felsted is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering the consumer and retail industries. She previously worked at the Financial Times.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  Unilever was all smiles when Kraft Heinz Co. abandoned its attempt to buy the U.K. consumer company for $143 billion. In an unusual joint statement, the two companies referred to their "high regard" for each other. This isn't how bitterly contested takeover situations normally end. The Anglo-Dutch consumer giant must have wanted to end things amicably -- or at least be seen to. Why would Unilever help Kraft Heinz save face, given it manifestly doesn't want to be acquired, let alone by the U.S. ketchup maker? Sure, Unilever is a good-hearted corporate citizen. But it looks like it may need something from Kraft Heinz one day, and is showing the world the pair could do business. One possibility: CEO Paul Polman has a sale of its food assets in mind, and needs to keep potential buyers sweet. Kraft Heinz is all food. Almost 60 percent of Unilever's revenue comes from personal products and homecare, things like soap and washing powder. A sale of the food business would let Polman preserve the company's independence and culture, while meeting Kraft Heinz's need for a deal that offers plenty of margin expansion potential. So why not do such a deal now? Perhaps Kraft Heinz wasn't keen, or it really wanted Unilever's faster-growing household products and personal care assets. Or, it's possible Polman wasn't ready. Conceivably, Unilever wants to bulk up its household and personal care operation before selling the food business. How could it achieve that? A purchase of New York-based Colgate-Palmolive Co. would fit the bill. With a market value of $64 billion, it's about half Unilever's size, and would be a strategic match, as analysts at Exane point out. Buying a storied U.S. name might seem tricky in the current climate, but a generous offer may assuage Colgate's managers, making the politics easier. Alternatively, there is a messier way of getting to the same result -- a deal with Swiss peer Nestle SA. The world's largest food group, with a market value of 228 billion Swiss francs ($227 billion), suffers Unilever's same problems of weak margins and low growth. At the very least, it might make sense for the two companies to merge most of their food operations into a joint venture and spin that off, or sell it. There are surprisingly few overlaps: the Swiss have mostly exited ice cream outside North America, while Unilever still makes choc-ices, for instance. An all-food combination would have combined sales of 32 billion euros ($34 billion). It could be worth 63 billion euros, based on the average sales multiple for the industry. Ulf Mark Schneider, Nestle's newish CEO, has indicated he's not in the market for big deals, so no one should hold their breath. But a full merger of the pair, with a spin-off of the food unit, would create a global group focused on the faster growing businesses of personal care, pet care and food supplements. Either way, the consumer industry needs deals to address weak profitability and growth. Polman needs to ensure Unilever has the strongest negotiating hand as opportunities arise. For now, that means cutting costs and reducing the company's conglomerate discount. That is where he can still earn his legacy. If he fails, others will do it for him. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the authors of this story: in at chughes89@bloomberg.net in at afelsted@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at eevans3@bloomberg.net Optimum cost cuts Drahi's Dream  Tycoon Takes on the Cable Cowboy   Deals  Re-extend and Pretend  Greek Bond Drama Meets Realpolitik   Markets  Not a Happy Camper The Buffett Way  Kraft Heinz Needs to Plug the Leaks   Deals  Sprint's position in a T-Mobile merger Albatross action  Sprint Is Desperate for a Deal   Tech  Shinyoung Marathon Unification Investment Trust, YTD Fraught Union  Nothing German About Korean Unification Bet   Markets  Baidu shares, YTD Proceed With Care  Tread Carefully, JD Finance   Tech  Kraft Heinz's bid was worth Kraft Heinz Takeover  Don't Uni-Leave Me This Way   Deals  DBS shares, YTD Shaky Foundations  Trouble Building in Singapore   Finance  Long Crude Blame Game  It's Not Record Oil Speculation That'll Drive Prices   Commodities  Kraft Heinz's Unilever bid Heating Up  Let the Food-Deal Frenzy Begin   Deals  Dam It  Raining On The Gas Market's Parade   Energy  Stock Laggard Playing Ketchup  Kraft and Unilever's Big Food Fight   Deals  Can't Say They Didn't Try Cash In Hand  Broken Deals Don't Have to Break the Banks   Deals  American Nightmare Taking a Battering  Giving U.S. Border Tax a European Luxury Snub   Consumer  Le Pen is polling French Elections  The "Anyone But Le Pen" Trade   Markets  Lactalis offer Parmalat's back  Big Cheese Meets Big Stink   Deals  Rose-tinted  Stock Investors' Breathtaking Complacency   Markets  The clue's in the name Inequitable  Asian Exchanges' Class Conflict   Markets  Expected wait for a verdict Management Scurvy  Captain in Chains Leaves Samsung Adrift   Management  bad banking trip  Fear and Lending in Singapore   Finance  The Mighty Are Falling Weak Defense  Kevin Plank Plays Politics With Under Armour   Consumer  Room to Fall One-Trick Pony  Alexion Needs New Bets   Health  Indifferent Strokes  Oil Doesn't Care About Your So-Called Data   Energy  Amount Snapchat Stands to Raise in IPO Cautionary Tale  A Modest Parable About Snapchat's IPO   Tech

Unilever was all smiles when Kraft Heinz Co. abandoned its attempt to buy the U.K. consumer company for $143 billion. In an unusual joint statement, the two companies referred to their "high regard" for each other.

This isn't how bitterly contested takeover situations normally end. The Anglo-Dutch consumer giant must have wanted to end things amicably -- or at least be seen to.

Not Giving Up Unilever shares have only partly reversed Friday's gains Source: Bloomberg

Why would Unilever help Kraft Heinz save face, given it manifestly doesn't want to be acquired, let alone by the U.S. ketchup maker?

Sure, Unilever is a good-hearted corporate citizen. But it looks like it may need something from Kraft Heinz one day, and is showing the world the pair could do business.

One possibility: CEO Paul Polman has a sale of its food assets in mind, and needs to keep potential buyers sweet.

Kraft Heinz is all food. Almost 60 percent of Unilever's revenue comes from personal products and homecare, things like soap and washing powder. A sale of the food business would let Polman preserve the company's independence and culture, while meeting Kraft Heinz's need for a deal that offers plenty of margin expansion potential.

Food Fade Growth in Unilever's food business has consistently lagged other divisions Source: Bloomberg Intelligence

So why not do such a deal now? Perhaps Kraft Heinz wasn't keen, or it really wanted Unilever's faster-growing household products and personal care assets.

Or, it's possible Polman wasn't ready. Conceivably, Unilever wants to bulk up its household and personal care operation before selling the food business.

How could it achieve that? A purchase of New York-based Colgate-Palmolive Co. would fit the bill. With a market value of $64 billion, it's about half Unilever's size, and would be a strategic match, as analysts at Exane point out.

Buying a storied U.S. name might seem tricky in the current climate, but a generous offer may assuage Colgate's managers, making the politics easier.

Alternatively, there is a messier way of getting to the same result -- a deal with Swiss peer Nestle SA. The world's largest food group, with a market value of 228 billion Swiss francs ($227 billion), suffers Unilever's same problems of weak margins and low growth.

Swiss on a Roll Nestle got most of its 2016 revenue from its beverages and its nutrition businesses Source: Bloomberg Intelligence

At the very least, it might make sense for the two companies to merge most of their food operations into a joint venture and spin that off, or sell it. There are surprisingly few overlaps: the Swiss have mostly exited ice cream outside North America, while Unilever still makes choc-ices, for instance.

An all-food combination would have combined sales of 32 billion euros ($34 billion). It could be worth 63 billion euros, based on the average sales multiple for the industry.

Ulf Mark Schneider, Nestle's newish CEO, has indicated he's not in the market for big deals, so no one should hold their breath. But a full merger of the pair, with a spin-off of the food unit, would create a global group focused on the faster growing businesses of personal care, pet care and food supplements.

Either way, the consumer industry needs deals to address weak profitability and growth.

Bargain Bin Unilever is cheaper than peers despite its growing personal and household products business Source: Bloomberg

Polman needs to ensure Unilever has the strongest negotiating hand as opportunities arise. For now, that means cutting costs and reducing the company's conglomerate discount. That is where he can still earn his legacy. If he fails, others will do it for him.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the authors of this story:

Chris Hughes in London at chughes89@bloomberg.net

Andrea Felsted in London at afelsted@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Edward Evans at eevans3@bloomberg.net