'My family is being broken': EU migrant parents of British children demand clarity on right to stay after Brexit
'My family is being broken': EU migrant parents of British children demand clarity on right to stay after Brexit
European migrants with British children are terrified their families will be torn apart by Brexit if they lose their right to remain in the UK, protesters have warned. Hundreds of immigrants to the UK from European Union countries held a rally outside the Houses of Parliament to call for politicians to guarantee their right to remain after EU withdrawal. Draped in flags from their home countries, protesters expressed their fears for their future in the UK, as the British government prepares to enter formal negotiations for Brexit. It is not yet known if EU citizens’ right to remain in the UK will be undermined by the move. Read more Oxford university reject rumours of French campus post-Brexit The House of Lords aren't your anti-Brexit knights in shining armour Brexit is unfinished business in the minds of many Brits Brexit bill live:Peers reject 'threats' as Theresa May watches debate The House of Lords is currently considering the ‘Article 50 Bill’ which would empower Prime Minister Theresa May to trigger Article 50, the formal mechanism through which negotiations to leave the European Union can begin. MPs in the House of Commons have given the bill approval but the upper chamber must all back it before it can be given full assent. However, critics say Ms May’s proposal to enact a 'Hard Brexit', does not represent majority public opinion and could leave EU citizens in the UK with fewer rights, as well as British people currently living abroad. Isabel, a French woman living her York with her English husband and three young children, attended the rally carried placards depicting the French and British flags. She told she fears they could be ripped apart by a hard Brexit deal. She said: “We fear being apart, my husband having no right to live in France and me having no right to live here. We are very worried and we’re waiting for the government to do something about it. “My family is being broken. We need guarantees now- that marriage does stand for something, families stand for something.” Ilaria Miarible, a 35-year-old researcher from Italy, said she came to the UK ten years ago to complete a PHD. She left the UK for several years, meaning she is now unsure if she qualifies for permanent residency. She said: “I’ve been in the UK for ten years. I’ve made my life here. I think it’s completely unfair. I have no rights here. “I think it’s unfair that there’s such uncertainty at the moment, we don’t know where we stand. I think how we migrants have been treated, across the board, is appalling. I came here with nothing and I decided to graft. I would like to stay here and pay back all the good things I have received.” Brexit Concerns               Brexit Concerns    Brexit will put British patients at 'back of the queue' for new drugs   Brexit will put British patients at the “back of the queue” for vital new drugs, the Government has been warned – forcing them to wait up to two years longer

A medicines regulator has raised the alarm over a likely decision to pull out of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as well as the EU itself.
ealth Secretary Jeremy Hunt dropped the bombshell , when he said he expected the UK would quit the EMA – because it is subject to rulings by the European Court of Justice.   Getty Images     London to lose status as 'gateway to Europe' for banks   One of Germany’s top banking regulators has warned that London could lose its status as “gateway to Europe” for the banking sector after Britain quits the European trading bloc. 

Andreas Dombret, who is an executive board member for the Bundesbank—Germany’s central bank—told a private meeting of German businesses and banks earlier this week in Frankfurt that even if banking rules were “equivalent” between the UK and the rest of the EU, that was still “miles away from [Britain having] access to the single market”, the BBC reports.   Jason Hawkes     Exodus   The number of financial sector professionals in Britain and continental Europe looking for jobs in Ireland rocketed in the months after the UK voted to leave the European Union   Shutterstock     Brexit is making FTSE 100 executives richer   Pay packages of many FTSE 100 chief executive officers are partly tied to how well share prices are doing rather than the CEO’s performance -- and some stocks are soaring.
ritish equities got a boost since the June vote because the likes of Rio Tinto, Smiths Group and WPP generate most sales abroad and earn a fortune when they convert these revenues back into the weakened pound. Sterling’s fall also made UK stocks more affordable for overseas investors.   Rex     Theresa May: UK to leave single market   Theresa May has said the UK "cannot possibly" remain within the European single market, as staying in it would mean "not leaving the EU at all".   Getty        Lead campaigner Gina Miller and her team outside the High Court   Getty        Raymond McCord holds up his newly issued Irish passport alongside his British passport outside the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit   PA wire        SDLP leader Colum Eastwood leaving the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit   PA wire        Migrants with luggage walk past a graffiti on a wall as they leave the 'Jungle' migrant camp, as part of a major three-day operation planned to clear the camp  in Calais   Getty        Migrants leave messages on their tents in the Jungle migrant camp   Getty        The Adventist Development and Relief Agency (Adra) which distributes approximately 700 meals daily in the northern Paris camp states that it is noticing a spike in new migrant arrivals this week, potentially linked the the Calais 'jungle' camp closure - with around 1000 meals distributed today   EPA        Migrant workers pick apples at Stocks Farm in Suckley, Britain   Reuters        Many farmers across the country are voicing concerns that Brexit could be a dangerous step into the
unknown for the farming industry   Getty        Bank of England governor Mark Carney who said the long-term outlook for the UK economy is positive, but growth was slowing in the wake of the Brexit vote   PA        The Dow Jones industrial average closed down over 600 points on the news with markets around the globe pluninging   Getty        Immigration officers deal with each member of the public seeking entry into the United Kingdom but on average, 10 a day are refused entry at this London airport and between 2008 and 2009, 33,100 people were detained at the airport for mainly passport irregularities   Getty        A number of global investment giants have threatened to move their European operations out of London if Brexit proves to have a negative impact on their businesses   Getty        Following the possibility of a Brexit the UK would be released from its renewable energy targets under the EU Renewable Energy Directive and from EU state aid restrictions, potentially giving the government more freedom both in the design and phasing out of renewable energy support regimes   Getty        A woman looking at a chart showing the drop in the pound (Sterling) against the US Dollar in London  after Britain voted to leave the EU   Getty        Young protesters outside the Houses of Parliament in Westminster, to protest against the United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU following the referendum   Getty        Applications from Northern Ireland citizens for Irish Passports has soared to a record high after the UK Voted in favour of Leaving the EU   Getty        NFU Vice President Minette Batters with Secretary of State, Andrea Leadsome at the National Farmers Union (NFU) took machinery, produce, farmers and staff to Westminster to encourage Members of Parliament to back British farming, post Brexit   Getty        The latest reports released by the UK Cabinet Office warn that expats would lose a range of specific rights to live, to work and to access pensions, healthcare and public services. The same reports added that UK citizens abroad would not be able to assume that these rights will be guaranteed in the future   Getty        A British resident living in Spain asks questions during an informative Brexit talk by the "Brexpats in Spain" group, about Spanish legal issues to become Spanish citizens, at the town hall in Benalmadena, Spain   Reuters        The collapse of Great Britain appears to have been greatly exaggerated given the late summer crowds visiting city museums, hotels, and other important tourist attractions   Getty        The U.K. should maintain European Union regulations covering everything from working hours to chemicals until after the government sets out its plans for Brexit, said British manufacturers anxious to avoid a policy vacuum and safeguard access to their biggest export market   Getty  Protest organiser Matthieu Challot, 42, told he moved to London from France 18 years ago and now lives with his British partner and their child. He says he does not fear losing his right to remain in the UK, but is more worried about social attitudes due to what he perceives to be growing bitterness from British nationals towards immigrants. He said: “I don’t think the UK is going to expel us, they need us as taxpayers and also I’m not sure they would want all their pensioners coming back in exchange.” Mr Challot explained: “I fear we will become second class citizens. People have started to be much more vocal about their prejudices. As a foreigner looking at the Brexit campaign it was horrendous. There was just lies and they have unleashed a new wave of populism.” He said that immediately after the referendum he found bins had been turned over on top of his car, which he fears may be due to his car having French number plates. He said: “I’ve been told lots that the UK is a very tolerant country, but I don’t want to be tolerated, I want to be accepted and integrated. I don’t need to be tolerated.” More about: Brexit Article 50 politics Law EU Migration Comments

European migrants with British children are terrified their families will be torn apart by Brexit if they lose their right to remain in the UK, protesters have warned.

Hundreds of immigrants to the UK from European Union countries held a rally outside the Houses of Parliament to call for politicians to guarantee their right to remain after EU withdrawal. Draped in flags from their home countries, protesters expressed their fears for their future in the UK, as the British government prepares to enter formal negotiations for Brexit.

It is not yet known if EU citizens’ right to remain in the UK will be undermined by the move.

The House of Lords is currently considering the ‘Article 50 Bill’ which would empower Prime Minister Theresa May to trigger Article 50, the formal mechanism through which negotiations to leave the European Union can begin. MPs in the House of Commons have given the bill approval but the upper chamber must all back it before it can be given full assent.

However, critics say Ms May’s proposal to enact a 'Hard Brexit', does not represent majority public opinion and could leave EU citizens in the UK with fewer rights, as well as British people currently living abroad.

Isabel, a French woman living her York with her English husband and three young children, attended the rally carried placards depicting the French and British flags. She told The Independent she fears they could be ripped apart by a hard Brexit deal.

She said: “We fear being apart, my husband having no right to live in France and me having no right to live here. We are very worried and we’re waiting for the government to do something about it.

“My family is being broken. We need guarantees now- that marriage does stand for something, families stand for something.”

Ilaria Miarible, a 35-year-old researcher from Italy, said she came to the UK ten years ago to complete a PHD. She left the UK for several years, meaning she is now unsure if she qualifies for permanent residency. She said: “I’ve been in the UK for ten years. I’ve made my life here. I think it’s completely unfair. I have no rights here.

“I think it’s unfair that there’s such uncertainty at the moment, we don’t know where we stand. I think how we migrants have been treated, across the board, is appalling. I came here with nothing and I decided to graft. I would like to stay here and pay back all the good things I have received.”

Brexit Concerns







26 show all Brexit Concerns

















































1/26 Brexit will put British patients at 'back of the queue' for new drugs Brexit will put British patients at the “back of the queue” for vital new drugs, the Government has been warned – forcing them to wait up to two years longer A medicines regulator has raised the alarm over a likely decision to pull out of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as well as the EU itself. ealth Secretary Jeremy Hunt dropped the bombshell , when he said he expected the UK would quit the EMA – because it is subject to rulings by the European Court of Justice. Getty Images

2/26 London to lose status as 'gateway to Europe' for banks One of Germany’s top banking regulators has warned that London could lose its status as “gateway to Europe” for the banking sector after Britain quits the European trading bloc. Andreas Dombret, who is an executive board member for the Bundesbank—Germany’s central bank—told a private meeting of German businesses and banks earlier this week in Frankfurt that even if banking rules were “equivalent” between the UK and the rest of the EU, that was still “miles away from [Britain having] access to the single market”, the BBC reports. Jason Hawkes

3/26 Exodus The number of financial sector professionals in Britain and continental Europe looking for jobs in Ireland rocketed in the months after the UK voted to leave the European Union Shutterstock

4/26 Brexit is making FTSE 100 executives richer Pay packages of many FTSE 100 chief executive officers are partly tied to how well share prices are doing rather than the CEO’s performance -- and some stocks are soaring. ritish equities got a boost since the June vote because the likes of Rio Tinto, Smiths Group and WPP generate most sales abroad and earn a fortune when they convert these revenues back into the weakened pound. Sterling’s fall also made UK stocks more affordable for overseas investors. Rex

5/26 Theresa May: UK to leave single market Theresa May has said the UK "cannot possibly" remain within the European single market, as staying in it would mean "not leaving the EU at all". Getty

6/26 Lead campaigner Gina Miller and her team outside the High Court Getty

7/26 Raymond McCord holds up his newly issued Irish passport alongside his British passport outside the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit PA wire

8/26 SDLP leader Colum Eastwood leaving the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit PA wire

9/26 Migrants with luggage walk past a graffiti on a wall as they leave the 'Jungle' migrant camp, as part of a major three-day operation planned to clear the camp in Calais Getty

10/26 Migrants leave messages on their tents in the Jungle migrant camp Getty

11/26 The Adventist Development and Relief Agency (Adra) which distributes approximately 700 meals daily in the northern Paris camp states that it is noticing a spike in new migrant arrivals this week, potentially linked the the Calais 'jungle' camp closure - with around 1000 meals distributed today EPA

12/26 Migrant workers pick apples at Stocks Farm in Suckley, Britain Reuters

13/26 Many farmers across the country are voicing concerns that Brexit could be a dangerous step into the unknown for the farming industry Getty

14/26 Bank of England governor Mark Carney who said the long-term outlook for the UK economy is positive, but growth was slowing in the wake of the Brexit vote PA

15/26 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down over 600 points on the news with markets around the globe pluninging Getty

16/26 Immigration officers deal with each member of the public seeking entry into the United Kingdom but on average, 10 a day are refused entry at this London airport and between 2008 and 2009, 33,100 people were detained at the airport for mainly passport irregularities Getty

17/26 A number of global investment giants have threatened to move their European operations out of London if Brexit proves to have a negative impact on their businesses Getty

18/26 Following the possibility of a Brexit the UK would be released from its renewable energy targets under the EU Renewable Energy Directive and from EU state aid restrictions, potentially giving the government more freedom both in the design and phasing out of renewable energy support regimes Getty

19/26 A woman looking at a chart showing the drop in the pound (Sterling) against the US Dollar in London after Britain voted to leave the EU Getty

20/26 Young protesters outside the Houses of Parliament in Westminster, to protest against the United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU following the referendum Getty

21/26 Applications from Northern Ireland citizens for Irish Passports has soared to a record high after the UK Voted in favour of Leaving the EU Getty

22/26 NFU Vice President Minette Batters with Secretary of State, Andrea Leadsome at the National Farmers Union (NFU) took machinery, produce, farmers and staff to Westminster to encourage Members of Parliament to back British farming, post Brexit Getty

23/26 The latest reports released by the UK Cabinet Office warn that expats would lose a range of specific rights to live, to work and to access pensions, healthcare and public services. The same reports added that UK citizens abroad would not be able to assume that these rights will be guaranteed in the future Getty

24/26 A British resident living in Spain asks questions during an informative Brexit talk by the "Brexpats in Spain" group, about Spanish legal issues to become Spanish citizens, at the town hall in Benalmadena, Spain Reuters

25/26 The collapse of Great Britain appears to have been greatly exaggerated given the late summer crowds visiting city museums, hotels, and other important tourist attractions Getty

26/26 The U.K. should maintain European Union regulations covering everything from working hours to chemicals until after the government sets out its plans for Brexit, said British manufacturers anxious to avoid a policy vacuum and safeguard access to their biggest export market Getty

Protest organiser Matthieu Challot, 42, told The Independent he moved to London from France 18 years ago and now lives with his British partner and their child. He says he does not fear losing his right to remain in the UK, but is more worried about social attitudes due to what he perceives to be growing bitterness from British nationals towards immigrants.

He said: “I don’t think the UK is going to expel us, they need us as taxpayers and also I’m not sure they would want all their pensioners coming back in exchange.”

Mr Challot explained: “I fear we will become second class citizens. People have started to be much more vocal about their prejudices. As a foreigner looking at the Brexit campaign it was horrendous. There was just lies and they have unleashed a new wave of populism.”

He said that immediately after the referendum he found bins had been turned over on top of his car, which he fears may be due to his car having French number plates.

He said: “I’ve been told lots that the UK is a very tolerant country, but I don’t want to be tolerated, I want to be accepted and integrated. I don’t need to be tolerated.”