What A Nuclear Test Can Teach Us About The Moon
What A Nuclear Test Can Teach Us About The Moon
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Sam Lemonick       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. More than 70 years later, the world’s first nuclear weapon test has taught us something new. Something new about the Moon. The Gadget test at Trinity. This photo was taken 0.25 seconds after detonation. (Shutterstock) The leading theory of how the Moon formed starts with a Mars-sized object smashing into Earth. It’s called the Giant Impact Theory for a reason. The resulting debris cloud eventually coalesced into our moon. One reason we think that happened is because of what we see when looking at the chemical makeup of rocks. Lunar and terrestrial rocks have essentially identical compositions, implying a common source. But when it comes to lighter elements that evaporate more easily, the Moon has far fewer. That points to the Moon starting out extremely hot, which would make sense if it formed from impact debris. The element zinc is one way to look see that. It has five stable isotopes, which are close chemical siblings that differ only by a few subatomic particles. Lunar rocks have zinc’s heavier isotopes, but not the lighter ones. Another piece of evidence for the Giant Impact Theory. Except we didn’t have any direct proof that lighter isotopes would evaporate first at the extreme temperatures and pressures we think happened during the Moon’s formation. That’s where the 1945 Trinity nuclear test comes in. James Day, a geochemist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, calls it a eureka moment. We can’t replicate the temperature and pressure of a giant impact in the lab, but Day realized that the conditions at the Trinity site were just right. The Gadget device was detonated at the Trinity site in July 1945 just weeks before an identical one, called Fat Man, was dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, killing 40,000 people. Among the effects of Gadget’s explosion was formation of a special type of glass, known as trinitite, from the desert sand. It formed between 1,200 and 1,500 degrees Celsius, Day says, just about what we’d expect during the giant impact that may have formed the moon. Day and his research team compared the zinc isotope composition of trinitite to that of lunar rocks. Just like lunar rocks, they found less of zinc’s lighter isotopes in trinitite. The further out they went from the test site’s ground zero, the more lighter isotopes they found, showing Day and his group that high temperature and pressure—which both decreased with distance from the bomb—are responsible. “I think it’s kind of cool to work on materials that were from a major human-induced experiment that had such a huge effect and impact on human history, and I’m really pleased we could use it for some kind of scientific benefit,” says Day. Their new paper in confirms the theory about zinc isotopes that Day floated in another paper about five years ago. Now other scientists are thinking the Trinity site could give us more evidence to understand the Giant Impact Theory. “We never knew there was a giant impact, it’s just giant impact makes sense to explain the current composition of lunar rocks,” says Kun Wang, a geochemist at Washington University in St. Louis. “This type of data is very valuable.” Wang has done similar work to Day, but with isotopes of potassium. He says he’s planning to test his potassium theories using trinitite, too.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

More than 70 years later, the world’s first nuclear weapon test has taught us something new. Something new about the Moon.

The leading theory of how the Moon formed starts with a Mars-sized object smashing into Earth. It’s called the Giant Impact Theory for a reason. The resulting debris cloud eventually coalesced into our moon.

One reason we think that happened is because of what we see when looking at the chemical makeup of rocks. Lunar and terrestrial rocks have essentially identical compositions, implying a common source. But when it comes to lighter elements that evaporate more easily, the Moon has far fewer. That points to the Moon starting out extremely hot, which would make sense if it formed from impact debris.

The element zinc is one way to look see that. It has five stable isotopes, which are close chemical siblings that differ only by a few subatomic particles. Lunar rocks have zinc’s heavier isotopes, but not the lighter ones. Another piece of evidence for the Giant Impact Theory. Except we didn’t have any direct proof that lighter isotopes would evaporate first at the extreme temperatures and pressures we think happened during the Moon’s formation.

That’s where the 1945 Trinity nuclear test comes in. James Day, a geochemist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, calls it a eureka moment. We can’t replicate the temperature and pressure of a giant impact in the lab, but Day realized that the conditions at the Trinity site were just right.

The Gadget device was detonated at the Trinity site in July 1945 just weeks before an identical one, called Fat Man, was dropped on Nagasaki, Japan, killing 40,000 people.

Among the effects of Gadget’s explosion was formation of a special type of glass, known as trinitite, from the desert sand. It formed between 1,200 and 1,500 degrees Celsius, Day says, just about what we’d expect during the giant impact that may have formed the moon. Day and his research team compared the zinc isotope composition of trinitite to that of lunar rocks.

Just like lunar rocks, they found less of zinc’s lighter isotopes in trinitite. The further out they went from the test site’s ground zero, the more lighter isotopes they found, showing Day and his group that high temperature and pressure—which both decreased with distance from the bomb—are responsible.

“I think it’s kind of cool to work on materials that were from a major human-induced experiment that had such a huge effect and impact on human history, and I’m really pleased we could use it for some kind of scientific benefit,” says Day.

Their new paper in Science Advances confirms the theory about zinc isotopes that Day floated in another paper about five years ago. Now other scientists are thinking the Trinity site could give us more evidence to understand the Giant Impact Theory.

“We never knew there was a giant impact, it’s just giant impact makes sense to explain the current composition of lunar rocks,” says Kun Wang, a geochemist at Washington University in St. Louis. “This type of data is very valuable.”

Wang has done similar work to Day, but with isotopes of potassium. He says he’s planning to test his potassium theories using trinitite, too.