Brazilian footballer racially abused in Serbia
Brazilian footballer racially abused in Serbia


Partizan Belgrade's Brazilian midfielder Everton Luiz left the field in tears yesterday after being racially abused by supporters of local city rivals Rad.

Luiz, 28, was jeered and taunted with monkey noises every time he touched the ball and some Rad fans unfurled a banner insulting the Brazilian towards the end of the game.

At the final whistle, Luiz made a one-fingered gesture in the direction the Rad fans, who reacted furiously, prompting the home team's players to confront him.

A full scale brawl broke out and police had to move in to prevent tensions spilling over as Luiz headed for the dressing room in tears.

Everton Luiz left the field in tears yesterday after being racially abused by Rad Belgrade fans

Partizan won the game 1-0 to stay second in the table six points behind Red Star Belgrade.

Speaking after the match, he said: 'I couldn't hold back the tears as I had to face racist insults from the terraces for 90 minutes.

'I was even more shocked by the attitude of opposing players who, instead of calming things down, backed this behaviour.'

Partizan coach Marko Nikolic, who was sacked by Slovenian side Olimpija Ljubljana last April for racially abusing one of his own players, said Luiz was likely to face disciplinary action from the club.

However, he urged Serbia's football authorities to punish Rad's supporters.

He said: 'Everton should not have reacted but something provoked his outburst, didn't it?

'Both sides in the incident should be punished. These things happen in football but it is now up to the authorities to sanction the offenders. It's a return to the reality of Serbian football.'

While at Olimpija, Nikolic called the club's Nigerian striker Blessing Eleke a 'black idiot' for his over-exuberant celebration of an equalising goal, which meant his team had less time to find a winner in a 1-1 home draw with Zavrc.

Partizan Belgrade's goalkeeper Filip Kljajic (right) hugs Brazilian midfielder Everton Luiz as he leaves the field in tears

After the game, Luiz went over to the Rad fans and put his middle finger up to them

He pointed towards the Rad supporters after they had jeered his every touch during the game

He was then booked by the referee and his actions led to a full-scale brawl on the pitch

Serbian football has been marred by several racist incidents in recent years.

In 2012, England U21's victory over Serbia was marred by racism and violence as tension boiled over at the end of the match.

Defender Danny Rose was sent off after the final whistle for kicking a football into the crowd after being racially abused and having stones thrown at him during the game.

England defender Nedum Onuoha was racially abused during the 2007 Under-21 European Championship game against Serbia in the Netherlands, for which Serbia were fined £16,000 by Uefa.

In a separate incident Serbia's Euro 2012 qualifier against Italy in Genoa was abandoned following an outbreak of hooliganism by Serbia supporters.

Italy were eventually awarded the points in a 3-0 success.