Saudi Stock Exchange appoints first female chief in history of the kingdom
Saudi Stock Exchange appoints first female chief in history of the kingdom
Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange has appointed a woman to the position of chairperson for the first time in the kingdom’s history, sparking hopes that the country is progressing—albeit slowly—towards gender equality . Sarah Al Suhaimi, who became the first female chief executive of a Saudi investment bank when she took the role at NBC Capital in 2014, accepted the offer to chair Saudi Arabia's Tadawul, the largest bourse in the Middle East, replacing Khalid Al Rabiah, the organisation said in a statement last week. The announcement was followed by Monday's appointment of Rania Mahmoud Nashar to the position of chief executive of Samba Financial Group, one of the country’s largest national banks.   Russia overtakes Saudi Arabia as world's largest crude oil producer Ms Nashar has nearly two decades of experience in the financial sector and previously held several jobs at within Samba, according to Bloomberg. The appointment of women at top financial jobs is an important step for the Saudi Arabia, where about a third of the female population is unemployed and women are still not allowed to drive. Women are also subject to a male guardianship system which in many cases restricts their opportunities to work. "Social change is intrinsic to the National Transformation Plan," said Monica Malik, chief economist at Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC told Bloomberg, referring to the kingdom’s list of policies unveiled last year that are designed to wean the economy off its dependence on oil. Read more Britain set for warmest February 20th for 160 years Saudi air strike kills 10 women and children in Yemen Ministers came 'within hours' of suspending Saudi arms exports "You’re seeing more and more signs of social change occurring over the last year." Ms Suhaimi will chair the Arab world's largest stock exchange at a critical time. According to Reuters, it is preparing to offer its own shares to the public and is trying to win emerging market status from international equity index compilers. Forbes top 20 most powerful women in the world               Forbes top 20 most powerful women in the world    Angela Merkel   German Chancellor   AFP/Getty Images     Hillary Clinton   U.S. Democratic presidential candidate   Reuters     Janet Yellen   Federal Reserve Chair   Getty Images     Melinda Gates   Co-founder of The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation   AFP/Getty Images     Mary Barra   General Motors Co. Chairman and CEO   Getty Images     Christine Lagarde   Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund   Getty Images     Sheryl Sandbert   COO of Facebook   Getty Images     Susan Wojcicki   CEO of YouTube   Getty Images for GLAAD     Meg Whitman   Hewlett Packard Enterprise CEO   Getty Images     Ana Patricia Botin   Santander Bank's president   AFP/Getty Images     Ginni Rometty   IBM Chairman, President and CEO   Getty Images     Park Geun-Hye   President of South Korea   Getty Images     Michelle Obama   U.S. first lady   Getty Images     Indra Nooyi   Chairperson and CEO of PepsiCo   Getty Images     Angela Ahrendts   Apple senior vice president   Getty Images     Abigail Johnson   President and CEO of Fidelity Investments and chairman of Fidelity International      Tsai Ing-wen   Taiwan President   AFP/Getty Images     Michelle Bachelet   Chile President   AFP/Getty Images     Federica Mogherini   High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy   AFP/Getty Images     Safra Catz   Oracle president   Getty Images  It is also expected next year to list the shares of national oil giant Saudi Aramco in what could be the world's biggest initial public offer. More about: Saudi Arabia gender equality Stock Exchange Comments

Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange has appointed a woman to the position of chairperson for the first time in the kingdom’s history, sparking hopes that the country is progressing—albeit slowly—towards gender equality.

Sarah Al Suhaimi, who became the first female chief executive of a Saudi investment bank when she took the role at NBC Capital in 2014, accepted the offer to chair Saudi Arabia's Tadawul, the largest bourse in the Middle East, replacing Khalid Al Rabiah, the organisation said in a statement last week.

The announcement was followed by Monday's appointment of Rania Mahmoud Nashar to the position of chief executive of Samba Financial Group, one of the country’s largest national banks.

Ms Nashar has nearly two decades of experience in the financial sector and previously held several jobs at within Samba, according to Bloomberg.

The appointment of women at top financial jobs is an important step for the Saudi Arabia, where about a third of the female population is unemployed and women are still not allowed to drive. Women are also subject to a male guardianship system which in many cases restricts their opportunities to work.

"Social change is intrinsic to the National Transformation Plan," said Monica Malik, chief economist at Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC told Bloomberg, referring to the kingdom’s list of policies unveiled last year that are designed to wean the economy off its dependence on oil.

"You’re seeing more and more signs of social change occurring over the last year."

Ms Suhaimi will chair the Arab world's largest stock exchange at a critical time.

According to Reuters, it is preparing to offer its own shares to the public and is trying to win emerging market status from international equity index compilers.

Forbes top 20 most powerful women in the world







20 show all Forbes top 20 most powerful women in the world





































1/20 Angela Merkel German Chancellor AFP/Getty Images

2/20 Hillary Clinton U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Reuters

3/20 Janet Yellen Federal Reserve Chair Getty Images

4/20 Melinda Gates Co-founder of The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation AFP/Getty Images

5/20 Mary Barra General Motors Co. Chairman and CEO Getty Images

6/20 Christine Lagarde Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund Getty Images

7/20 Sheryl Sandbert COO of Facebook Getty Images

8/20 Susan Wojcicki CEO of YouTube Getty Images for GLAAD

9/20 Meg Whitman Hewlett Packard Enterprise CEO Getty Images

10/20 Ana Patricia Botin Santander Bank's president AFP/Getty Images

11/20 Ginni Rometty IBM Chairman, President and CEO Getty Images

12/20 Park Geun-Hye President of South Korea Getty Images

13/20 Michelle Obama U.S. first lady Getty Images

14/20 Indra Nooyi Chairperson and CEO of PepsiCo Getty Images

15/20 Angela Ahrendts Apple senior vice president Getty Images

16/20 Abigail Johnson President and CEO of Fidelity Investments and chairman of Fidelity International

17/20 Tsai Ing-wen Taiwan President AFP/Getty Images

18/20 Michelle Bachelet Chile President AFP/Getty Images

19/20 Federica Mogherini High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy AFP/Getty Images

20/20 Safra Catz Oracle president Getty Images

It is also expected next year to list the shares of national oil giant Saudi Aramco in what could be the world's biggest initial public offer.