Trump Picks Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster as New National Security Adviser
Trump Picks Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster as New National Security Adviser
President Trump has finally found Mike Flynn’s replacement . Trump named Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster his new national security adviser, according to multiple reports. McMaster is considered one of the military’s “most prominent intellectuals” according to the and was chosen as one of the world’s 100 most influential people by magazine in 2014, who called him the “architect of the future U.S. Army,” and “the 21st century Army’s pre-eminent warrior-thinker.” Trump made the unscheduled announcement from Mar-a-Lago, where he told reporters he considers McMaster "a man of tremendous talent and tremendous experience.” People seem to agree with the president, and commended his choice on social media. HR McMaster is an outstanding choice but his selection does not end WH dysfunction with Bannon & Kushner pursuing own foreign policies. Based on what I'm reading, trying to figure out why McMaster wasn't NSA from the outset instead of Flynn. It’s been a messy road but swapping out Flynn for McMaster is an enormous upgrade. The retired general comes on board after Trump’s previous pick, Ret. Vice Adm. Bob Harward, turned down the job for fear of joining an unstable White House mired in chaos. McMaster’s job will be to restore order to a National Security Council that’s come under fire for a series of perplexing moves and blunders, including the appointment of Steve Bannon in a senior role, and the dismissal of Flynn after he lied to Vice President Pence about the nature of his calls with Russian officials. McMaster rose to prominence when he criticized the Joint Chiefs of Staff for their handling of the Vietnam War, and for his staunch opposition to the way President George W. Bush’s administration handled the war in Iraq, the reports .

President Trump has finally found Mike Flynn’s replacement. Trump named Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster his new national security adviser, according to multiple reports.

McMaster is considered one of the military’s “most prominent intellectuals” according to the Los Angeles Times, and was chosen as one of the world’s 100 most influential people by Time magazine in 2014, who called him the “architect of the future U.S. Army,” and “the 21st century Army’s pre-eminent warrior-thinker.”

Trump made the unscheduled announcement from Mar-a-Lago, where he told reporters he considers McMaster "a man of tremendous talent and tremendous experience.”

People seem to agree with the president, and commended his choice on social media.

HR McMaster is an outstanding choice but his selection does not end WH dysfunction with Bannon & Kushner pursuing own foreign policies. — Max Boot (@MaxBoot) February 20, 2017

Based on what I'm reading, trying to figure out why McMaster wasn't NSA from the outset instead of Flynn. — Steve Deace (@SteveDeaceShow) February 20, 2017

It’s been a messy road but swapping out Flynn for McMaster is an enormous upgrade. — Matthew Yglesias (@mattyglesias) February 20, 2017

The retired general comes on board after Trump’s previous pick, Ret. Vice Adm. Bob Harward, turned down the job for fear of joining an unstable White House mired in chaos. McMaster’s job will be to restore order to a National Security Council that’s come under fire for a series of perplexing moves and blunders, including the appointment of Steve Bannon in a senior role, and the dismissal of Flynn after he lied to Vice President Pence about the nature of his calls with Russian officials.

McMaster rose to prominence when he criticized the Joint Chiefs of Staff for their handling of the Vietnam War, and for his staunch opposition to the way President George W. Bush’s administration handled the war in Iraq, the New York Times reports.