12 Runs Throughout The Year That Your Fibit Can Help You Stay Motivated For
12 Runs Throughout The Year That Your Fibit Can Help You Stay Motivated For
12 Runs Throughout The Year That Your Fibit Can Help You Stay Motivated For You’ve run the hard yards, woken up at wee hours to head out for a run, changed your diet to fuel your training, and paid for your results through toil and sweat for hours to complete the challenge you took up to run that race that you’ve been contemplating for some time. The last thing you want is to dampen all your hard work by letting go of the habits you’ve inculcated up until now or by simply not continuing the efforts you had so judicially made through the rest of the year. Build on the pace goal you’ve finally achieved and your Fitbit stats nailed in previous runs to inspire you to get off the couch and keep you motivated to stay on the run for the rest of the year. Devil’s Circuit As the first and still the biggest obstacle run in India, the Devil's circuit has been a welcome change for people who are tired or bored of training/running for regular runs over the years. Including 15 rugged, tortuous, custom-designed obstacles strategically placed through the course, it's not designed for the faint-hearted, but for someone looking to spice up their runs. 19/02/2017, 05/03/2017, 19/03/2017 Mohali, Panaji, Gurgaon The Amity Gurgaon Half Marathon As one of the most prominent runs in the millennium city, the event is expected to attract more than 1,000 well-conditioned athletes and more than 10,000 participants (including people from the corporate realm) from all around the Delhi-NCR and other states. The event includes a 21.1-km, 10km fun run, and a 5-km kid run. 26/02/2017 Gurgaon, Haryana Pinkathon Women's Run As one the most exclusive and most popular women-centric runs in the country, its endeavour is to raise awareness of breast cancer and encourage women to take up health and fitness. Breast cancer being one of the leading causes of cancer for women, the Pinkathon does its bit in creating awareness about the preventive measures you can take. As Milind Soman as its brand ambassador, one would only expect to see the event grow in leaps and bounds. 26/02/2017 Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh Dehradun half marathon

You’ve run the hard yards, woken up at wee hours to head out for a run, changed your diet to fuel your training, and paid for your results through toil and sweat for hours to complete the challenge you took up to run that race that you’ve been contemplating for some time.

The last thing you want is to dampen all your hard work by letting go of the habits you’ve inculcated up until now or by simply not continuing the efforts you had so judicially made through the rest of the year.

Build on the pace goal you’ve finally achieved and your Fitbit stats nailed in previous runs to inspire you to get off the couch and keep you motivated to stay on the run for the rest of the year.

Here are some of the popular running events spread out through the year to keep you invested in training for your run:

Devil’s Circuit

media.indiatimes.in

As the first and still the biggest obstacle run in India, the Devil's circuit has been a welcome change for people who are tired or bored of training/running for regular runs over the years. Including 15 rugged, tortuous, custom-designed obstacles strategically placed through the course, it's not designed for the faint-hearted, but for someone looking to spice up their runs.

Expected Dates: 19/02/2017, 05/03/2017, 19/03/2017

Location: Mohali, Panaji, Gurgaon

The Amity Gurgaon Half Marathon

portal.amity.edu

As one of the most prominent runs in the millennium city, the event is expected to attract more than 1,000 well-conditioned athletes and more than 10,000 participants (including people from the corporate realm) from all around the Delhi-NCR and other states. The event includes a 21.1-km, 10km fun run, and a 5-km kid run.

Expected Dates: 26/02/2017

Location: Gurgaon, Haryana

Pinkathon Women's Run

hindustantimes.com

As one the most exclusive and most popular women-centric runs in the country, its endeavour is to raise awareness of breast cancer and encourage women to take up health and fitness. Breast cancer being one of the leading causes of cancer for women, the Pinkathon does its bit in creating awareness about the preventive measures you can take. As Milind Soman as its brand ambassador, one would only expect to see the event grow in leaps and bounds.

Expected Dates: 26/02/2017

Location: Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh



Dehradun half marathon

shyamgopan.files.wordpress.com

Don't Miss 2.6 K SHARES 8.8 K SHARES 3.8 K SHARES 2.5 K SHARES

Being a city based at the foothills of the Himalayas, at an altitude of 435-m, nestled between the Ganga and Yamuna, Dehradun, is one of the most picturesque landscapes you can run in. With comfortable weather conditions almost all-year-round the 3rd edition of this event is set to be even more blissful.

Expected Dates: 30/04/2017

Location: Dehradun, Uttarakhand

The Himalayan Running and Living XC Marathon

explara.com

This one-of-a-kind marathon is held at the base of the mighty Himalayas. The run starts in Sangla, Himachal Pradesh and snakes through Sangla valley, which offers a breathtaking view to the runners. With a challenging terrain, it’s ideal for those looking for a sizeable challenge this year.

Expected Dates: 05/05/2017

Location: Sangla, Himalaya

Sikkim running and living 25k

sikkimtouristplaces.wordpress.com

Organised by one of the largest running communities in India, Running and Living, this run includes several photo opportunities amidst the several scenic landscapes it offers to run in. It also includes a 5-km run, 12-km run, and a ginormous 25-km run.

Expected Dates: 21/05/2017

Location: Sikkim

TCS world 10K- Bangalore

yeddyurappa.in

Also known as the world 10k Bengaluru marathon, the 10k run road run is sponsored by Tata Consultancy Services (TCS). First held in 2008 the event has grown substantially over the years in popularity; beginning and ending at the Sree Kanteerava stadium after weaving through the streets of Bangalore.

Expected Dates: 21/05/2017

Location: Bangalore

The Gurgaon running and living XC half marathon

The combination of a trail and mud track for this event is set to test your endurance and grit as you run on a surface similar to a cross country event; across rocky and muddy terrains. It’s also an ideal precursor to the Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon (SCMM) and the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon (ADHM)

Expected Dates: 04/06/2017

Location: Gurgaon, Haryana





in.explara.com

Similar to the Gurgaon running and living XC half marathon this too is a cross-country run set across rocky and muddy terrains. It’s also an ideal precursor to the Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon (SCMM) and the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon (ADHM) as well.

Expected Dates: 18/06/2017

Location: Aarey, Mumbai

La Ultra- The High - Le Ladakh

forbesindia.com

As the highest (altitude) running event in the world, some claim it to be one of the cruellest runs because it tests the mind as much as it tests the body. Having to trudge ludicrous distances of about 111-km, 222-km, and 333-km through some of the most gruelling conditions at an altitude of over 17,700 feet, this run is for the ardent runner looking for a challenge that feels larger than life.

Expected Dates: 16/08/2017

Location: J&K

The Nilgiris Ultra

globeracers.com

You’ll love this one if travelling up the hills is your up your alley. The race is set amidst the beautiful Nilgiri hills located in the Western Ghats and promises a scenic view, spiralling upward into the mist-laden clouds. The run begins at midnight, and the trail passes through the hills offering a breathtaking view of the sunrise.

Expected Dates: 02/12/2017

Location: Ooty, Tamil Nadu

The Airtel Delhi Half Marathon

4to40.com

As the biggest half-marathon in the country by a large number and one of the most prestigious in the world, this is one event for which you wouldn’t mind training all-year-round to participate in or even flying down to attend from whichever part of the world you are in.

The event includes the half-marathon itself, a 7-km Great Delhi Run, a 4.3-km run for senior citizens, and a 3.5-km wheelchair race.

Expected Dates: Sometime during November, December

Location: New Delhi

If you want to check for more runs than the one's on this list, there’s a whole slew of them scheduled for 2017 and the details are available online. Just remember to carry your Fitbit with you before you head out for a run, to keep you ticking!