Presidential podcast by The Washington Post
Presidential podcast by The Washington Post
LATEST EPISODE Jan. 5, 2016 Introduction Welcome to Presidential Preview the Washington Post podcast, with clips from upcoming episodes and an overview of the series by host Lillian Cunningham. Introduction Welcome to Presidential Jan. 10, 2016 George Washington The man, the myth, the legend Post reporters Bob Woodward and Joel Achenbach, and Julie Miller from the Library of Congress, examine George Washington's traits--from fearless action hero and charismatic dancer to insecure and reluctant president. George Washington The man, the myth, the legend Jan. 17, 2016 John Adams The case of the missing monument Biographer David McCullough, Julie Miller of the Library of Congress, Philip Kennicott of The Washington Post, and Kirk Savage of the University of Pittsburgh explore why there's no monument to John Adams in the nation's capital. John Adams The case of the missing monument Jan. 24, 2016 Thomas Jefferson On food and freedom Jon Meacham and Annette Gordon-Reed are among the experts who walk us through the best and worst of our third president's complex and controversial legacy. Thomas Jefferson On food and freedom Jan. 31, 2016 James Madison Burning down the house Though he's our first wartime president, James Madison is usually better remembered for his work on the constitution rather than his time as commander-in-chief while the White House went up in flames. But maybe that's the wrong way to look at it. James Madison Burning down the house Feb. 7, 2016 James Monroe The Forrest Gump of presidents In the latest episode of Presidential, we look at our fifth president's knack for being present at famous moments in history. James Monroe The Forrest Gump of presidents Feb. 14, 2016 John Quincy Adams The trait that broke a presidency Scholars Charles Edel and Fred Kaplan, along with Washington Post journalist Katie Zezima, explore the main leadership characteristic that doomed the presidency of John Quincy Adams. John Quincy Adams The trait that broke a presidency Feb. 21, 2016 Andrew Jackson The violence, the fight Barbara Bair, Steve Inskeep and Jon Meacham examine the tragedy of Andrew Jackson's personal life, the brutality of his battles and his policies against Native Americans, and the conflict that makes up a dynamic democracy. Andrew Jackson The violence, the fight Feb. 28, 2016 Martin Van Buren The story of our two-party system He may not have been a very memorable president, but Van Buren did much to create the party establishments we have today. Experts Barbara Bair and Mark Cheathem, along with Washington Post reporter Chris Cillizza, examine his mark on modern politics. Martin Van Buren The story of our two-party system March 6, 2016 William Henry Harrison Great song, horrible death Washington Post humor columnist Alexandra Petri, along with experts Barbara Bair and Dr. Philip Mackowiak, deconstruct Harrison's transformative presidential campaign and debunk the myth of what killed him after only 32 days in office. William Henry Harrison Great song, horrible death March 13, 2016 John Tyler Ghosts and the vice presidency When Vice President Tyler takes over the White House, he sets a precedent that would forever shape the office. This episode features experts Barbara Bair and Joel Goldstein, as well as descendants who talk about the ghost who haunts the Tyler home. John Tyler Ghosts and the vice presidency March 20, 2016 James K. Polk Getting it done They Might Be Giants singer John Linnell and historian Amy Greenberg are this episode's guests. Through hard work and strategic lying, the 11th president managed to accomplish everything on his agenda. But is being effective the same as being great? James K. Polk Getting it done March 27, 2016 Zachary Taylor War heroes and conspiracy theory Washington Post columnist Dana Milbank joins historians Catherine Clinton and Joseph Uscinski to talk about military hero Zachary Taylor and the assassination theories that swirled around his death in the White House. Zachary Taylor War heroes and conspiracy theory April 3, 2016 Millard Fillmore Teaching the obscure presidents Should we teach the presidency of Millard Fillmore? What do we lose if we don't? Historians Jean Baker and James McPherson, along with researcher Henry Roediger and education reporter T. Rees Shapiro, tackle these questions in our 13th episode. Millard Fillmore Teaching the obscure presidents April 10, 2016 Franklin Pierce Rolling off the tracks Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer James McPherson and historian Edna Greene Medford discuss Franklin Pierce's role in the country's progression toward civil war, as well as the personal tragedy that unfolded right before he took office. Franklin Pierce Rolling off the tracks April 17, 2016 James Buchanan The bachelor and the bloodshed America is on the eve of civil war, and James Buchanan is alone in the White House as our first and only bachelor president. Historians Jean Baker and Jim Loewen, and The Washington Post's Jim Tankersley, explore the lack of personal and political union. James Buchanan The bachelor and the bloodshed April 24, 2016 Abraham Lincoln His hand and his pen Doris Kearns Goodwin, author of 'Team of Rivals,' and Michelle Krowl of the Library of Congress guide us through Lincoln's love for language--and how his gift for writing and oratory became one of his greatest presidential leadership tools. Abraham Lincoln His hand and his pen May 1, 2016 Andrew Johnson Stitching up a torn country What kind of president can repair America's deepest divisions? Michelle Krowl of the Library of Congress walks us through Andrew Johnson's time in office right after the Civil War and sheds light on why he struggled to bring the country together. Andrew Johnson Stitching up a torn country May 8, 2016 Ulysses S. Grant Lover, fighter, writer Ulysses S. Grant's memoirs are considered the best ever written by a president. In this episode, Washington Post nonfiction book critic Carlos Lozada and biographer David Maraniss discuss what they found funny, touching and illuminating about the work. Ulysses S. Grant Lover, fighter, writer May 15, 2016 Rutherford B. Hayes The most contested election How does a vicious, close and disputed election spill over into a presidency? We examine the razor-thin election results for Rutherford B. Hayes, and the equally fine line he then had to tread as president during the end of Reconstruction. Rutherford B. Hayes The most contested election May 22, 2016 James A. Garfield Shot down Only 100 days into office, President Garfield was shot down in a train station by a disturbed office seeker. 'Destiny of the Republic' author Candice Millard, along with Michelle Krowl of the Library of Congress, examine the life cut short. James A. Garfield Shot down May 29, 2016 Chester A. Arthur Redemption How does one of the greatest beneficiaries of the spoils system end up being the president who passes civil service reform? Post reporter David Fahrenthold and Stateline editor Scott Greenberger tell the amazing story of Arthur's personal transformation. Chester A. Arthur Redemption June 5, 2016 Grover Cleveland Tell the truth Known for his forthrightness, Cleveland came clean when news broke that he had fathered an illegitimate child; yet he later covered up a cancer surgery at sea. Guests Matthew Algeo, Michelle Krowl and Roman Mars explore candor and the presidency. Grover Cleveland Tell the truth June 12, 2016 Benjamin Harrison The president as conservationist Benjamin Harrison was the first U.S. president to use his position to try to save a species, the fur seal. He also set aside more than 13 million acres of forest reserves. This episode looks at the roots of conservation as a presidential responsibility. Benjamin Harrison The president as conservationist June 19, 2016 William McKinley The modern campaign Republican political strategist Karl Rove dissects what was so transformative about William McKinley's 1896 presidential campaign; and Washington Post reporter Carol Leonnig discusses how his assassination modernized the Secret Service. William McKinley The modern campaign June 26, 2016 Theodore Roosevelt Exuberance Biographer David McCullough and historian Michelle Krowl take us inside the wild, unstoppable dynamism of Teddy Roosevelt, whose energy and activism redefined the role of American president. Theodore Roosevelt Exuberance July 3, 2016 William Howard Taft This chief, not that chief Doris Kearns Goodwin, author of 'The Bully Pulpit,' along with historian Michelle Krowl and Supreme Court reporter Robert Barnes discuss why President Taft made a better chief justice than commander-in-chief. William Howard Taft This chief, not that chief July 10, 2016 Woodrow Wilson A complicated legacy Racism, diplomacy, women's suffrage...historian John Milton Cooper and Woodrow Wilson House executive director Robert Enholm lead us through Wilson's complicated personal and presidential legacy. Woodrow Wilson A complicated legacy July 17, 2016 Warren G. Harding Love and scandal Steamy love letters. Jazz. Scandal. Psychics. Newspapers. The Hope Diamond. Historian Nicole Hemmer helps guide us through the wild life and presidency of Warren G. Harding. Warren G. Harding Love and scandal July 24, 2016 Calvin Coolidge A tale of two Coolidges Former politician Michael Dukakis, biographer Amity Shlaes and political scientist Robert Gilbert join Washington Post economics reporter Steven Pearlstein to discuss what each of them finds worth reexamining about Coolidge's legacy. Calvin Coolidge A tale of two Coolidges July 31, 2016 Herbert Hoover Dealing with disaster Herbert Hoover entered the White House with an array of high-profile experiences leading disaster relief. So why was his handling of the Great Depression considered a failure? Biographer Charles Rappleye guest stars. Herbert Hoover Dealing with disaster Aug. 7, 2016 Franklin D. Roosevelt Through Eleanor's eyes Allida Black, editor of the Eleanor Roosevelt papers, along with FDR Library Director Paul Sparrow and White House speechwriter Sarada Peri, examine Franklin Roosevelt's leadership through the lens of the first lady's own contributions to his presidency. Franklin D. Roosevelt Through Eleanor's eyes Aug. 14, 2016 Harry S. Truman Trying to make the right call Biographer David McCullough looks at some of the most difficult decisions President Truman made during his time in the White House, and Washington Post polling manager Scott Clement examines the biggest polling failure in presidential history. Harry S. Truman Trying to make the right call Aug. 21, 2016 Dwight D. Eisenhower Covert action Stephen Kinzer, author of "The Brothers," and historian Will Hitchcock explore President Eisenhower's predilection for covert action--both in foreign affairs and in his own leadership style. Dwight D. Eisenhower Covert action Aug. 28, 2016 John F. Kennedy We are all mortal Robert Dallek, Michael Beschloss and Fredrik Logevall--three major Kennedy historians and biographers--join us on this week's episode to talk about JFK and death. But not his assassination... John F. Kennedy We are all mortal Sept. 4, 2016 Lyndon B. Johnson Power The LBJ Presidential Library's director, Mark Updegrove, helps us examine how Johnson worked his will--at times darkly--to get some of the most transformative legislation of the 20th century through Congress. Lyndon B. Johnson Power Sept. 11, 2016 Richard Nixon Looking inward Bob Woodward, one of the Washington Post investigative reporters who helped uncover the Watergate scandal, examines what was at the heart of Richard Nixon's presidential downfall. The Washington Post's current executive editor, Marty Baron, joins as well. Richard Nixon Looking inward Sept. 18, 2016 Gerald Ford It's personal The president's son Steven Ford joins White House photographer David Hume Kennerly and Berkeley professor Daniel Sargent to talk about how Gerald Ford's experience working across the aisle in Congress affected his leadership style as president. Gerald Ford It's personal Sept. 25, 2016 Jimmy Carter Keeping the faith Longtime Carter political adviser Pat Caddell, theologian and biographer Randall Balmer, and Washington Post reporter Robert Costa examine how Jimmy Carter's faith has shaped his leadership in and out of the White House. Jimmy Carter Keeping the faith Oct. 2, 2016 Ronald Reagan Myths and truths Lou Cannon, biographer and senior White House correspondent for The Washington Post during President Reagan's administration, helps us separate the fact from fiction about who Ronald Reagan really was. Ronald Reagan Myths and truths Oct. 9, 2016 George H. W. Bush Restraint Historians Jon Meacham and Jeffrey Engel discuss President Bush's unique form of presidential leadership--a vintage combination of public service, conservatism and emotional restraint--and examine why his legacy has grown more positive over time. George H. W. Bush Restraint Oct. 16, 2016 Bill Clinton The good and the bad David Maraniss, who won the Pulitzer Prize for his reporting on Bill Clinton, explores how his core character traits had both a bright and a dark side. And Washington Post reporter Jim Tankersley examines how his policy legacy has had a similar duality. Bill Clinton The good and the bad Oct. 23, 2016 George W. Bush Changing course Peter Baker, author of "Days of Fire" and a journalist with the New York Times, joins historian Mark Updegrove to examine how George W. Bush's presidency marked the beginning of a new era in American history. George W. Bush Changing course Oct. 30, 2016 Barack Obama The pursuit of identity Political strategist David Axelrod and biographer David Maraniss discuss Barack Obama's search for identity -- and how that quest has paralleled America's own complex reckoning with race. Barack Obama The pursuit of identity Nov. 9, 2016 Donald Trump Division and union In this final episode of the podcast, Library of Congress historians Michelle Krowl and Julie Miller return--along with Washington Post journalist Dan Balz--to reflect on the changing nature of the American presidency. Donald Trump Division and union Presidential figurines of George Washington through Richard Nixon by the Louis Marx Toy Company. Figurines of Gerald Ford through Barack Obama were made by Patric M. Verrone. Photos and art direction by Amy King. Background illustrations in photos by Craig & Karl. Produced by Emily Chow and Jake Crump. More Coverage

In 44 episodes leading up to Election Day 2016, this podcast explores the character and legacy of each of the American presidents. Hosted by Lillian Cunningham, Presidential features Pulitzer Prize-winning historians like David McCullough and journalists like Bob Woodward. A new episode lands each Sunday.

Love the Presidential podcast? You can find t-shirts, mugs and more in our online store. We also want to hear what you’ve learned about presidential leadership! Leave us a voicemail at 314-643-6152.