Derrick Rose Reportedly Drawing Trade Interest from Timberwolves, Other Teams
Derrick Rose Reportedly Drawing Trade Interest from Timberwolves, Other Teams
Derrick Rose is in his first season with the New York Knicks, but the point guard could already be on his way out of town before Thursday's trade deadline. According to Ian Begley of ESPN.com, the Minnesota Timberwolves are one of several teams that have reached out about a potential swap for Rose. Knicks President Phil Jackson is "strongly pushing" to trade Rose and forward Joakim Noah to the Timberwolves, per Mike Ortiz Jr. of DYST Now. The 2010-11 MVP is averaging 17.7 points and 4.5 assists per game. Rose, who is set to be a free agent at the end of the season, was traded from the Chicago Bulls to the Knicks in June as part of a five-player deal . While Rose has posted similar numbers to what he produced his last couple of years in Chicago, New York has struggled as a team. The squad went into the All-Star break with a 23-34 record, good for just 12th place in the Eastern Conference. " On the other hand, No. 5 overall pick Kris Dunn would likely see even less playing time than the 16.6 minutes per game he's averaged during his rookie year. Rose's scoring ability makes him an attractive option, but teams will have to avoid overbidding for what could be a short-term rental. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Jesse D. Garrabrant/Getty Images

Derrick Rose is in his first season with the New York Knicks, but the point guard could already be on his way out of town before Thursday's trade deadline.

According to Ian Begley of ESPN.com, the Minnesota Timberwolves are one of several teams that have reached out about a potential swap for Rose.

Knicks President Phil Jackson is "strongly pushing" to trade Rose and forward Joakim Noah to the Timberwolves, per Mike Ortiz Jr. of DYST Now.

The 2010-11 MVP is averaging 17.7 points and 4.5 assists per game.

Rose, who is set to be a free agent at the end of the season, was traded from the Chicago Bulls to the Knicks in June as part of a five-player deal.

While Rose has posted similar numbers to what he produced his last couple of years in Chicago, New York has struggled as a team. The squad went into the All-Star break with a 23-34 record, good for just 12th place in the Eastern Conference.

"I like being here, but [you] never know what could happen," Rose said Wednesday, per Begley. "My job is to come in and play as hard as I can."

If the Timberwolves acquire the 28-year-old, Rose and coach Tom Thibodeau would be reunited. They spent five years together with the Bulls, though Rose missed the entire 2012-13 season with a torn left ACL.

Rose could provide the Wolves with veteran leadership and a scoring upgrade at point guard over Ricky Rubio, who is averaging 8.9 points per game. That would be especially valuable since Zach LaVine, who was averaging 18.9 points per game, is out for the rest of the season with a torn left ACL.

On the other hand, No. 5 overall pick Kris Dunn would likely see even less playing time than the 16.6 minutes per game he's averaged during his rookie year.

Rose's scoring ability makes him an attractive option, but teams will have to avoid overbidding for what could be a short-term rental.