Fat shaming campaign by German supermarket criticised
Fat shaming campaign by German supermarket criticised


An advert made by a supermarket chain famous for its viral campaigns has been criticised for fat shaming.

German supermarket chain Edeka's new campaign called 'Eatkarus' is has caused controversy only a few days after its release.

The short film, which has amassed 8 million views across social media platforms combined, tells the story of a fat young boy who lives in a town inhabited only by the overweight.

A German advertising campaign has been criticised for fat shaming because it showed a young boy escape a town full of fat people by losing weight and flying away

In the town, which is inhabited only by the overweight, everyone eats the same grey sludge

Everyone in the fantasy world eats the same grey mash for breakfast, lunch and dinner.

However, the plump boy dreams of flying away like a bird - drawing on the Greek myth of Icarus who created wings to fly with.

The boy, distracted by creating his own wings, and inspired to eat berries by a crow he has been chasing, inadvertently loses weight in the process.

As the advert ends, the boy is seen now slimmer and wearing the wings he has designed.

While people look upon him with disgust he runs and takes flight, his new slender frame allowing him to float.

The supermarket chain provides more than just the message alone. On a separate campaign page, they provide recipe videos, diet tips and a BMI calculator.

But the boy, inspired by a black bird, wants to fly away. After stumbling upon fruit for the first time the boy gets to work on his homemade wings

The aim to combat growing obesity and unhealthy eating habits has earned the campaign praise as well as criticism.

One web user wrote: 'It is discrimination. Before you know they are also starting to make fun about people with a disability.'

Another took to social media to say: 'You can also promote healthy eating without ridiculing fat people.'

Finally, having made the wings and given up eating the grey sludge in favour of fruit, the boy flies away. Edeka, the German chain, said they wanted to encourage people to choose healthier options

In a statement, Edeka said they just wanted to raise awareness about healthy nutrition and not discriminate against overweight people.

A spokesperson said: 'With a certain exaggeration, we wanted to shake off the daily routine of fast food and the movie's unidentified grey mash, regardless of the size of an individual.

'We are aware that some people suffer from obesity because of illness, which cannot be solved with a simple diet change.'

The German supermarket chain is perhaps best known for its Christmas commercials, including a viral tearjerker commercial featuring a grandfather eating Christmas dinner all alone as none of his busy children could come over.