New Day Say They'd Never Leave WWE to Fight in UFC, Comment on Conor McGregor
New Day Say They'd Never Leave WWE to Fight in UFC, Comment on Conor McGregor
After Brock Lesnar and CM Punk both fought in UFC within the last year, WWE at least doesn't have to worry about The New Day jumping ship. In an interview with TMZ Sports Monday, Big E, Kofi Kingston and Xavier Woods said they have no desire to transition to mixed martial arts: The New Day may be the longest-reigning tag team champions in WWE history, but they'd unquestionably be out of their depth inside the Octagon. The discussion also focused on UFC star Conor McGregor, who has flirted with possibly showing up in WWE. The company itself acknowledged the speculation after McGregor's brief retirement last April. "I think the general consensus is that what we do are two very different things," Woods said of McGregor. "People say what they want to in interviews and things like that, but at the end of the day, we do what we do and he does what he does. You asking us this question verifies he's talking about it, [getting] people talking. Good for him." Kingston said he'd enjoy seeing McGregor compete in WWE. If McGregor ever does show up in WWE, then it's unlikely to happen at WrestleMania 33. 's Barry Moran reported in January the UFC lightweight champion turned down the opportunity to appear at the event. With over a month before WrestleMania, however, there's still time for McGregor to make a U-turn and pack his bags for Orlando, Florida. The 28-year-old is basically the biggest heel in UFC, so he'd be a natural inside the squared circle should he ever want to give professional wrestling a try. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Ian Gavan/Getty Images

After Brock Lesnar and CM Punk both fought in UFC within the last year, WWE at least doesn't have to worry about The New Day jumping ship.

In an interview with TMZ Sports Monday, Big E, Kofi Kingston and Xavier Woods said they have no desire to transition to mixed martial arts:

The New Day may be the longest-reigning tag team champions in WWE history, but they'd unquestionably be out of their depth inside the Octagon.

The discussion also focused on UFC star Conor McGregor, who has flirted with possibly showing up in WWE. The company itself acknowledged the speculation after McGregor's brief retirement last April.

"I think the general consensus is that what we do are two very different things," Woods said of McGregor. "People say what they want to in interviews and things like that, but at the end of the day, we do what we do and he does what he does. You asking us this question verifies he's talking about it, [getting] people talking. Good for him."

Kingston said he'd enjoy seeing McGregor compete in WWE.

If McGregor ever does show up in WWE, then it's unlikely to happen at WrestleMania 33. The Sun's Barry Moran reported in January the UFC lightweight champion turned down the opportunity to appear at the event.

With over a month before WrestleMania, however, there's still time for McGregor to make a U-turn and pack his bags for Orlando, Florida. The 28-year-old is basically the biggest heel in UFC, so he'd be a natural inside the squared circle should he ever want to give professional wrestling a try.