21 Things You’ll Only Get If You’re Slightly Obsessed With True Crime
21 Things You'll Only Get If You're Slightly Obsessed With True Crime
You’ve always had a morbid fascination with crime stories. But you find them especially thrilling when they are crime stories. Because fact is scarier than fiction, guys. You accept that it’s odd your favourite way to unwind is to learn about cases of violent crime.  View on Instagram *lights candles, runs bath, puts in bath bomb, listens intently to a story about a women being hacked to death by her brother.* So there’s nothing more exciting than meeting another true crime aficionado who doesn’t think your hobbies are weird. When it comes to true crime cases, you soak up every bit of information like a sponge.  View on Instagram So you sometimes fantasise about taking a degree in criminology.  View on Instagram *Never misses a single lecture or seminar* Because then you might be able to actually justify all the time you spend watching crime documentaries… If I could only put that energy and time I used to binge watch Making a Murderer into actually becoming a better human being. …listening to podcasts… I'm gonna start listening to casefile podcasts again here we go dangerrrr …and reading non-fiction crime books.  View on Instagram The only time non-fiction is as unputdownable as a thriller. You feel pangs of jealousy when you meet someone who hasn’t listened to your favourite podcast yet. They have such wonderful times ahead of them! You found the second season of to be heartbreakingly disappointing. Because even though it’s awful, you think that if a case is about fraud or something not very scary, it’s not really worth your time. Because the more fucked up and murdery a story is, the more fascinated you are. As soon as you learn about a case, you immediately Google the people and evidence. Because you have to know detail, what the criminals look like. Thought he was supposed to be hot? You get actual chills when you see this at the start of what you think is a regular movie: And you’ve never concentrated so hard as when the closing credits come up and you get to read what later happened in the case. A part of you hates it if a story has no conclusion. What happened?! A killer is on the loose people! This is outrageous! But another part of you is secretly glad, because it means you were destined to solve it. “These detectives are useless! Why did they not search the car?? If I were the detective I would have searched everything! EVERYONE!” So you often find yourself in forums discussing theories about what might have actually happened. And you love it, you’re in your element. Because you know about so many horrible cases, you freak yourself out on a regular basis. “Wait, didn’t someone get murdered in a barn in Wiltshire once? I’M IN A BARN IN WILTSHIRE!” But that is never enough to stop you from being the secret detective/pathologist/DNA expert you feel you were destined to be.   Chrissy Teigen Shut Down Mom-Shamers Before She Was...    23 Reasons Growing Up In Scotland Ruins You For Life...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.