Can Social Learning Help Your Millennial Workforce Be More Productive?
Can Social Learning Help Your Millennial Workforce Be More Productive?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jimmy Rohampton       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Millennials are already the biggest and most influential generation after Baby Boomers. And they dominate the workforce today. By 2025, 75% of global workers will be millennials. As the first generation to grow up using computers and the internet, there’s a lot that sets their experience and expectations apart. One example is their need for social learning. Social learning is the idea that people can learn from each other informally by watching and emulating. It takes a step back from traditional classroom instruction where students learn from a teacher or from a textbook. As social learners, students have opportunities to learn from each other by observation and trial and error. Anthropologists theorize that learning from and with peer groups was actually the natural way people learned in human history. As you’ll see shortly, millennials prefer this method as well. Shutterstock According to an infographic by PeopleFluent , 89% of millennials want their workplace to be social and fun, and think it’s important to be constantly learning at their job. What strategies do most businesses use to educate their employees? Seminars, workshops, and the traditional classroom setting. Millennials aren’t very interested in that. And millennials have demonstrated that if they aren’t happy with their work environment, they won’t stay. The average tenure for millennials is only two years. Using social media to promote social learning can help address this need. Promoting social media as a part of the workplace environment allows employees to communicate, collaborate and learn anywhere at any time. And by gamifying the learning environment -- making goal-oriented benchmarks for success -- you can improve productivity in the process. Eighty percent of millennials prefer instant recognition of their strengths and weaknesses over formal reviews. Maybe because they’re the first generation that grew up gaming. millennials are used to the instant gratification that comes from leveling up. If you don’t give them enough options to gain skills and promotions, they may lose interest and leave. A gamified learning process helps millennial employees become more engaged , which can lead to 18% higher productivity, 27% lower absenteeism, 12% higher profitability and 31% lower turnover. Since social media is inherently, well, social, I believe it could serve as a tool to help implement and benefit from social learning in the workplace. It’s true that social technology users benefit from quicker access to knowledge but how can you know which platform is best for social learning in the work environment? It’s important to remember that social media use is about preference. According to a report by Gustin Quon , Facebook and Instagram are the two main channels people visit most often. Of adults in the US age 18 to 29 , 87% use Facebook, 53% use Instagram, 37% use Twitter and 34% use Pinterest. Ultimately, you’ll need to see which social media channel your millennial workers respond better to, and then invest more resources in it. That said, social media has already been used to promote social learning with success. Some examples are the Gates Foundation (which use Yammer internally to supplement courses), Quality Formations (which use a progressive scale system to recognize employee goal achievements and give instant feedback – exactly what millennials prefer) and AT&T University (a personal learning environment for corporate professionals).    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Millennials are already the biggest and most influential generation after Baby Boomers. And they dominate the workforce today. By 2025, 75% of global workers will be millennials.

As the first generation to grow up using computers and the internet, there’s a lot that sets their experience and expectations apart. One example is their need for social learning. Social learning is the idea that people can learn from each other informally by watching and emulating. It takes a step back from traditional classroom instruction where students learn from a teacher or from a textbook.

As social learners, students have opportunities to learn from each other by observation and trial and error. Anthropologists theorize that learning from and with peer groups was actually the natural way people learned in human history. As you’ll see shortly, millennials prefer this method as well.

According to an infographic by PeopleFluent, 89% of millennials want their workplace to be social and fun, and think it’s important to be constantly learning at their job. What strategies do most businesses use to educate their employees? Seminars, workshops, and the traditional classroom setting. Millennials aren’t very interested in that.

And millennials have demonstrated that if they aren’t happy with their work environment, they won’t stay. The average tenure for millennials is only two years.

Using social media to promote social learning can help address this need. Promoting social media as a part of the workplace environment allows employees to communicate, collaborate and learn anywhere at any time. And by gamifying the learning environment -- making goal-oriented benchmarks for success -- you can improve productivity in the process.

Eighty percent of millennials prefer instant recognition of their strengths and weaknesses over formal reviews. Maybe because they’re the first generation that grew up gaming. millennials are used to the instant gratification that comes from leveling up. If you don’t give them enough options to gain skills and promotions, they may lose interest and leave.

A gamified learning process helps millennial employees become more engaged, which can lead to 18% higher productivity, 27% lower absenteeism, 12% higher profitability and 31% lower turnover.

Since social media is inherently, well, social, I believe it could serve as a tool to help implement and benefit from social learning in the workplace. It’s true that social technology users benefit from quicker access to knowledge but how can you know which platform is best for social learning in the work environment?

It’s important to remember that social media use is about preference. According to a report by Gustin Quon, Facebook and Instagram are the two main channels people visit most often. Of adults in the US age 18 to 29, 87% use Facebook, 53% use Instagram, 37% use Twitter and 34% use Pinterest. Ultimately, you’ll need to see which social media channel your millennial workers respond better to, and then invest more resources in it.

That said, social media has already been used to promote social learning with success. Some examples are the Gates Foundation (which use Yammer internally to supplement courses), Quality Formations (which use a progressive scale system to recognize employee goal achievements and give instant feedback – exactly what millennials prefer) and AT&T University (a personal learning environment for corporate professionals).