Working longer 'doesn't increase labour productivity', economists say of ATO hours



Working longer 'doesn't increase labour productivity', economists say of ATO hours

Updated

Leading economists have criticised the logic behind a failed push to extend working hours at the Australian Tax Office (ATO) by nine minutes a day, saying productivity is increased by working smarter rather than longer.

Key points: ATO's working day is seven hours, 21 minutes

More Australians working unpaid overtime than years ago, economist says

Most public servants work "conscientiously", public service commissioner says

Documents obtained by the ABC reveal the tax office has been aware its 4.51pm finish time has fallen short of community expectations for many years.

ATO management acknowledge many staff work unpaid overtime, particularly those in more senior positions.

The ATO is one of 18 government agencies with an official working day of seven hours and 21 minutes, including the Office of National Assessments, the Australian Human Rights Commission and the Fair Work Commission.

The bid for staff to work the equivalent of an extra 4.5 days a year was during workplace bargaining, with documents revealing management believed it could improve productivity by up to 2 per cent.

"The move to a [7.5-hour] working day brings the ATO in line with most other APS [Australian Public Service] agencies and can be used as one of the biggest sources of genuine productivity to justify other improvements in the EA [enterprise agreement]," the document said.

"The additional nine minutes is demonstrable, permanent and measurable and increases the availability of our workforce on a daily basis."

But the bid was abandoned in early 2016 after staff told the ATO it was the proposal they "disliked the most", given it would result in an hourly pay cut, matched by a proposed 0.8 per cent pay increase.

Economist Saul Eslake said he understood a vast majority of private sector workers would "raise their eyebrows" at an official 4:51pm finish time, but questioned the ATO's logic.

"Simply asking people to work longer hours — be it a matter of nine minutes, in this case, or something in excess of an hour per day — is not of itself an increase in labour productivity, which properly measured is output per hour worked," he told the ABC.

"The reality is, this is the 37.5-hour working week that is standard across the Australian public service, and has been since at least the late 1970s."

Mr Eslake said more Australians were working unpaid overtime than they were many years ago, with most contactable on weekends and on holidays.

"Most people would feel that, over the last 20 years or so, there has been a significant increase in unpaid overtime," he said.

Former Microsoft chief executive Pop Marlow said on Twitter that "when your discussion is about nine minutes, I think you have bigger problems".

'ATO staff working longer hours'

Australian Public Service Commissioner John Lloyd said the duration of the working day could only be changed if public servants agreed to do so.

"It would be preferable for employees and unions to have more regard to not exceeding community standards," he said.

"Most public servants work productively and conscientiously.

"Significant productivity gains will be made in the ATO and in other agencies by modernising enterprise agreements."

Community and Public Sector Union national president Nadine Flood said the idea all public servants at the ATO finished work at 4.51pm was "ludicrous".

Ms Flood said staff at the ATO were working longer hours than ever before, including unpaid overtime, as a result of more than 4,000 job cuts at the office in recent years.

"With 33 cuts to conditions on the table at the time, this was never the only issue for our members, though they were understandably upset at a cut to their hourly pay rate via changing working hours at the same time as they were being told to accept a measly pay offer at that stage of 0.8 per cent a year.

"Clearly it wasn't the sticking point to reaching a new agreement because there have been two more emphatic 'no' votes from the tax office staff since."

Staff rejected an EA proposal in May and December 2016, with the latter voted down by a 71 per cent voting majority.

Ms Flood said it was the Government's decision to cut more than 4,000 staff that was "out of step with community expectations".

Professor Phil Lewis, director of the Centre for Labor Market Research at the University of Canberra, said there was an "unfortunate" bias against public servants with many Australians believing they are lazy.

"My experience in dealing with the public service is, they are dedicated to their jobs and they do work quite hard," he said.

Topics: public-sector, government-and-politics, tax, australia

First posted