Kim Jong-nam on CCTV telling staff he had been poisoned
Kim Jong-Un’s brother seen telling airport staff he was poisoned


CCTV footage from minutes before Kim Jong-un's half-brother dropped dead at a Malaysian Airport, he sought help at a customer service desk and appeared to explain that he had been attacked by two women.

Kim Jong-nam died en route to a hospital following a seizure at Kuala Lumpur International Airport after two women allegedly sprayed him in the face with poison.

Minutes after the women confronted him, he told officials at a customer service that 'two unidentified women had swabbed or had wiped his face with a liquid and that he felt dizzy', the Deputy National Police Chief of Malaysia, Noor Rashid Ibrahim, said.

He can be seen on video pointing to his face, as if he was telling the security guards that he had been grabbed by the face.

Meanwhile, North Korea's ambassador to Malaysia on Monday said he would not accept local autopsy results for Kim Jong-nam, and claimed that the older Kim died of 'natural causes'.

Another CCTV video released over the weekend allegedly shows the moment which led to the assassination of Kim Jong-nam.

CCTV footage from Kuala Lumpur International Airport shows Kim Jong Un's half brother, Kim Jong-nam, speaking to security guards and officials after apparently being poisoned

He can be seen on video pointing to his face, as if he was telling the security guards that he had been grabbed by the face. Kim Jong-nam died en route to a hospital following a seizure after two women allegedly sprayed him in the face with poison

Minutes after the women confronted him, Kim Jong-nam (second from right, walking through the airport) found a customer service desk and told them what happened. Police said that he told officials that 'two unidentified women had swabbed or had wiped his face with a liquid and that he felt dizzy'

A woman in a white top and jeans is seen grabbing the man and holding him back, while another woman sprays a toxic substance in his face.

Jong-nam, who often spoke out against his brother's regime, died on the way to hospital.

Since the incident, police have so far arrested four people carrying identity documents from North Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam.

Those arrested include two women who were allegedly seen approaching Kim on February 13 as he stood at a ticketing kiosk at the budget terminal of the Kuala Lumpur airport.

North Korea's ambassador to Malaysia Kang Chol also called an investigation into the man's death politically motivated and demanded a joint probe amid increasingly bitter exchanges between the once-friendly nations.

A woman in a while top and jeans is seen grabbing the man and holding him back, while another woman is sprays a toxic substance in his face

Kim Jong-nam, pictured, died shortly after the hit squad administered the poison on Monday

Malaysia responded with its own accusations, with a foreign ministry statement saying the ambassador's comments were 'culled from delusions, lies and half-truths'.

The attack spiraled into diplomatic fury when Malaysia refused to hand over Kim's corpse to North Korean diplomats and proceeded with at least one autopsy over the diplomats' objections.

'The investigation by the Malaysian police is not for the clarification of the cause of the death and search for the suspect, but it is out of the political aim,' Kang told reporters Monday, saying Malaysia was in collusion with South Korea, as Seoul tries to deflect attention from its own months-long political crisis.

Police 'pinned the suspicion on us, and targeted the investigation against us', Kang said, calling on Malaysia to work with North Korea in a joint investigation.

Malaysian police have arrested Ri Jong-chol, centre, who is believed to be a North Korean chemistry expert in connection with the murder of Kim Jong-un's half brother Kim Jong-nam

Jong-chol was arrested following a dramatic raid by Malaysian police hunting the killers

Kang referred to the dead man as 'Kim Chol,' the name on the passport found with Kim Jong Nam.

Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak told reporters later Monday that he had confidence in the objectivity of his country's police and doctors.

Malaysia had no reason to 'paint the North Koreans in a bad light,' he said, adding, 'We expect them to understand that we apply the rule of law in Malaysia.'

Autopsy results on Kim Jong Nam could be released as early as Wednesday, said Health Minister S Subramaniam.

The Malaysian foreign ministry said the government has kept the North Korean Embassy informed, telling them that because 'the death occurred in Malaysian soil under mysterious circumstances, it is the responsibility of the Malaysian government to conduct an investigation to identify the cause of death.'

Meanwhile, Malaysian police have arrested a North Korean chemistry expert in connection with his murder.

Malaysia's National Police Deputy Inspector-General Noor Rashid Ibrahim, left, said his officers have identified four North Korean men who flew out of Kualar Lumpur on the day of the murder

Kim Jong-nam, pictured, is believed to have been murdered using a fast-acting poison in Kuala Lumpur airport on February 13 on the orders of his half-brother Kim Jong-un

Ri Jong-chol, 47, who studied medicine and chemistry in Pyongjang was detained in Kuala Lumpur in connection with the murder.

Police are also hunting four North Korean men who flew out of Kuala Lumpur the same day Jong-nam was assassinated.

The four suspects are believed to have been part of a hit squad sent to murder the despotic leader's half brother on the tyrant's orders.

Malaysian police have so far arrested four people - including the chemistry expert - in connection with the murder probe.

Pyongyang, however, said it had no faith in the investigation and claimed Kuala Lumpur was in cahoots with 'hostile forces'.

One of the suspects, North Korean Hong Song Hac, left Malaysia on the day of the murder

Ri Jae Nam arrived in Malaysia on February 1 and left the country on February 13

O Jong Gil was only in Malaysia for a week before escaping on the day of the murder

Ri Ji U is also one of the suspects who Malaysian police are looking for following the murder

Police have released CCTV image in the search for three more men over the murder

Over the weekend, Malaysia recalled its envoy to North Korea and summoned Pyongyang's ambassador Kang for a dressing down. But an unbowed Kang hit back.

'It has been seven days since the incident, but there is no clear evidence on the cause of death and at the moment we cannot trust the investigation by the Malaysian police', he told reporters in the Malaysian capital.

Pyongyang also criticised Malaysia for carrying out a post-mortem examination without North Korean permission - a complaint Kuala Lumpur said was groundless.

'The ministry emphasised that as the death occurred on Malaysian soil under mysterious circumstances, it is the responsibility of the Malaysian government to conduct an investigation to identify the cause of death,' the foreign ministry said.

'The Malaysian government takes very seriously any unfounded attempt to tarnish its reputation. The Malaysian Government views the criticism... as baseless'.

Doan Thi Huong from Vietnam and Siti Aisyah, right from Indonesia have both been arrested

North Korean Ri Jong chol, left is believed to be a chemistry expert while Malaysian Muhammad Farid Bin Jallaludin, right, has also been detained in connection with the murder

Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak backed those running the probe, saying it would be 'very professional'.

'I have absolute confidence that they are very objective in whatever they do,' he said in his first comments since news of the killing broke.

'We have no reason why we want to do something that would paint the North Koreans in a bad light. But we would be objective and we expect them to understand that we apply the rule of law in Malaysia.'

Kim Jong-nam is believed to have been murdered in a plot using a fast-acting liquid poison.

One of those arrested has been named by Malaysian police as Ri Jong-chol, 47, from Pyongyang.

It is understood Jong-chol graduated in chemistry and medicine from a North Korean university in 2000, later working in chemistry research in India.

Police also released a photograph of Vietnamese suspect Doan Thi Huong

A diplomatic row has deepened in the wake of the death of North Korean Kim Jong-nam

A police source said it was too soon to conclude that Jong-chol was behind the liquid poison believed to have been used to kill Kim Jong-nam.

'He is being quizzed on this and he is also being questioned about the whereabouts of three accomplices who are still at large,' the police source said.

Police fear, however, that three other men - said to be part of a gang of four men working with two women in Kim's murder - might have already escaped from Malaysia.

Special branch officers studying CCTV footage from Kuala Lumpur Airport, where Kim was attacked last week, have allegedly pinpointed three men aged between 30 and 50 who boarded a flight to another Southeast Asian country immediately after the incident.

CCTV footage shows that the suspects changed their clothes before heading to the departure hall to board their flight.

'The suspects wore grey, purple and green clothing respectively prior to the attack,' said a police source.

The 'LOL assasin' (left) who allegedly murdered Kim Jong-nan, right, by wiping poison on his face may have been 'duped into killing him' by 'friends who told her it was a harmless prank'

It is believed one of the attackers distracted him in the check-in queue while another 'came from behind, locked in a chokehold and administered poison'. Pictured is one of the suspects on CCTV, wearing a white top branded with LOL

A second woman named as Siti Aishah (pictured in the passport profile image), 25, from Indonesia and her Malaysian boyfriend were arrested over the death

How the chillingly audacious murder of North Korean tyrant's brother in a major airport may have involved a poisonous handkerchief and fountain pen

'However, after the attack, they went to a restroom and changed before heading to the departure hall to board their flight.'

Police are convinced this was a preconceived plan as the two women allegedly involved in the attack - and who have claimed they were tricked into believing they were taking part in a TV prank - have told officers there was no sign of their male accomplices after the event.

If the arrested North Korean man, Jong-chol, was part of the assassination team, either directly or indirectly, police believe he would know the names of the three men who remain at large.

This would enable Malaysian police to alert authorities in neighbouring countries to watch for them and detain them.

On Sunday, the Deputy National Police Chief of Malaysia, Noor Rashid Ibrahim, said four other suspects were on the run. He said the men were North Korean and had flown out of the country last Monday, when Kim died.

'I am not going disclose where they are,' he told a room packed with journalists. Interpol was helping with the investigation, he said.

Former North Korean leader Kim Jong Il (bottom left) poses with his first-born son Kim Jong-nam (bottom right), in this 1981 family photo in Pyongyang, North Korea

Noor Rashid showed photographs of the four North Korean men police were trying to track down. They were travelling on regular - not diplomatic - passports and are aged 33, 34, 55 and 57.

He also said there was a fifth North Korean man whom authorities wanted to question.

Noor Rashid said Sunday that he expected autopsy results to be released within days.

'We have to send a sample to the chemistry department, we have to send a sample for toxicology tests,' he said.

Investigators also want to speak to Kim Jong-nam's next of kin to identify the body. He is believed to have two sons and a daughter with two women living in Beijing and Macau.

'We haven't met the next of kin,' Noor Rashid said. 'We are working, we are trying very hard to get the next of kin to come and to assist us in the investigation.'