Colson Whitehead on George Saunders’s Novel About Lincoln and Lost Souls
Colson Whitehead on George Saunders’s Novel About Lincoln and Lost Souls
By George Saunders 343 pp. Random House. $28. It’s a very pleasing thing to watch a writer you have enjoyed for years reach an even higher level of achievement. To observe him or her consolidate strengths, share with us new reserves of talent and provide the inspiration that can only come from a true artist charting hidden creative territory. George Saunders pulled that trick off with “Tenth of December,” his 2013 book of short stories. How gratifying and unexpected that he has repeated the feat with “Lincoln in the Bardo,” his first novel and a luminous feat of generosity and humanism. “Escape From Spiderhead,” one of the gems in “Tenth of December,” closed with a young man reckoning with his demise and saying goodbye to the world. “Lincoln in the Bardo” chooses a similar moment as its arena, unfolding in a Washington, D.C., cemetery in 1862, where a cohort of lost souls alternately apprehend, deny and resist the fact of their deaths. The bardo of the title is the transitional state in Buddhism, where the consciousness resides between death and the next life; for non-Buddhists, it is a recognizable limbo, full of milling entities who for one reason or another will not take the next step of the journey. Like the ghosts we know from stories, they are tied to their former existences, trapped by an idea of themselves, and can’t leave until they are ready; perhaps you recognize their dilemma from your own life, when you have been stuck between one obsolete version of yourself and the new version waiting just ahead. Maybe all you need is the right push. Saunders gives us three tour guides to explain the rules of this afterworld. Hans Vollman calls his coffin a temporary “sick-box”; when he recovers, he will finally consummate his marriage (there have been complications). As long as Vollman clings to this wish, he’s dallying among the tombstones. Roger Bevins III is a love-struck suicide who decided, as his blood drained from his veins, to follow his gay “predilection.” He, too, is confined to bardo until he can accept that his resolve arrived too late and that he has kicked the bucket. The Rev. Everly Thomas is the only spirit who is aware of where and why everyone is stuck, and he has his own reasons for tarrying. Three guides, and one guest of honor: Willie Lincoln, the 11-year-old son of the president. The “sort of child people imagine their children will be, before they have children,” he has caught his death of cold. The novel spans the night of his burial, as his presence upends the order of the cemetery. For one thing, “young ones are not meant to tarry” — unburdened by a lifetime’s accumulation of failures and regret, they usually pass over quickly. But a visit by his grieving father agitates the boy, as well as his graveyard neighbors. Making his way to his son’s crypt in the darkness, the president is an “exceedingly tall and unkempt fellow” who “might have been . . . a sculpture on the theme of loss,” and his demonstration of love calls up all sorts of weird feelings in the lingering souls. “It was cheering. It gave us hope,” Reverend Thomas says, “as if one were still worthy of affection and respect” even in this debased state. Roger Bevins III draws a similarly optimistic conclusion. “We were perhaps not so unlovable as we had come to believe,” he says. If the spirits can persuade this boy to undertake his rightful departure to the Other Side, they might be saved as well. It will be a long night. The souls crowd around this uncanny child. As the cast grows, so does our perspective; the novel’s concerns expand, and we see this human business as an angel does, looking down. In the midst of the Civil War, saying farewell to one son foreshadows all those impending farewells to sons, the hundreds of thousands of those who will fall in the battlefields. The stakes grow, from our heavenly vantage, for we are talking about not just the ghostly residents of a few acres, but the citizens of a nation — in the graveyard’s slaves and slavers, drunkards and priests, soldiers of doomed regiments, suicides and virgins, are assembled a country. The wretched and the brave, and such is Saunders’s magnificent portraiture that readers will recognize in this wretchedness and bravery aspects of their own characters as well. He has gathered “sweet fools” here, and we are counted among their number. Readers with conservative tastes may (foolishly) be put off by the novel’s form — it is a kind of oral history, a collage built from a series of testimonies consisting of one line or three lines or a page and a half, some delivered by the novel’s characters, some drawn from historical sources. The narrator is a curator, arranging disparate sources to assemble a linear story. It may take a few pages to get your footing, depending. The more limber won’t be bothered. We’ve had plenty of otherworldly choruses before, from Grover’s Corners to Spoon River, and with so many walking dead in the pop culture nowadays, why not a corresponding increase in the talking dead? Are the nonfiction excerpts — from presidential historians, Lincoln biographers, Civil War chroniclers — real or fake? Who cares? Keep going, read the novel, Google later. Lincoln in the Bardo In this immersive narrative short, President Lincoln pays a nighttime visit to the haunted cemetery in which his beloved son has just been laid to rest. Based on "Lincoln in the Bardo," the new novel by George Saunders. For the full film and other virtual reality videos, download the NYT VR app. Please wait 24 hours or enter a different number before trying again. ( )  Though I’ve met George Saunders a few times, we’re not buddy-buddy. I might lend him 10 bucks if he asked — I trust he’s good for it — but given how rarely our paths cross I know it would be a while before I saw it again, and that’s O.K. As with you, probably, I know him chiefly through his work, including “Pastoralia” and “CivilWarLand in Bad Decline,” his satirical diagnoses of our post-post-modern condition: our theme park life, mass-produced existential writhings, the communal pig-wallow in the mud pits of consumerism. But if the historical theme park in “CivilWarLand” was a stage for its workers’ ludicrous miseries, the war here is a crucible for a heroic American identity: fearful but unflagging; hopeful even in tragedy; staggering, however tentatively, toward a better world. The father must say goodbye to his son, the son must say goodbye to the father. Abraham Lincoln must stop being the father to a lost boy and assume his role as a father to a nation, one on the brink of cataclysm. It is a perilous moment, the sort that comes along every so often, where it seems the country is listing and about to tip and only steady hands can right the ship. Survival depends not only on the captain, but on all aboard. Here we insert the common observation that the inanity of modern life has left the satirist unable to compete; pour one out for the absurdists among us. But events sometimes conspire to make a work of art, like a novel set in the past, supremely timely. In describing Lincoln’s call to action, Saunders provides an appeal for his limbo denizens — for citizens everywhere — to step up and join the cause. As one graveyard slave puts it, inspired by the great man in his mourning: “Sir, if you are as powerful as I feel that you are, and as inclined toward us as you seem to be, endeavor to something for us, so that we might do something for ourselves. We are ready, sir; are angry, are capable, our hopes are coiled up so tight as to be deadly, or holy: Turn us loose, sir, let us at it, let us show what we can do.” Colson Whitehead’s most recent novel, “The Underground Railroad,” won the National Book Award for fiction last year. A version of this review appears in print on February 12, 2017, on Page BR1 of the with the headline: When Spirits Linger.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

LINCOLN IN THE BARDO

By George Saunders

343 pp. Random House. $28.

It’s a very pleasing thing to watch a writer you have enjoyed for years reach an even higher level of achievement. To observe him or her consolidate strengths, share with us new reserves of talent and provide the inspiration that can only come from a true artist charting hidden creative territory. George Saunders pulled that trick off with “Tenth of December,” his 2013 book of short stories. How gratifying and unexpected that he has repeated the feat with “Lincoln in the Bardo,” his first novel and a luminous feat of generosity and humanism.

“Escape From Spiderhead,” one of the gems in “Tenth of December,” closed with a young man reckoning with his demise and saying goodbye to the world. “Lincoln in the Bardo” chooses a similar moment as its arena, unfolding in a Washington, D.C., cemetery in 1862, where a cohort of lost souls alternately apprehend, deny and resist the fact of their deaths. The bardo of the title is the transitional state in Buddhism, where the consciousness resides between death and the next life; for non-Buddhists, it is a recognizable limbo, full of milling entities who for one reason or another will not take the next step of the journey. Like the ghosts we know from stories, they are tied to their former existences, trapped by an idea of themselves, and can’t leave until they are ready; perhaps you recognize their dilemma from your own life, when you have been stuck between one obsolete version of yourself and the new version waiting just ahead. Maybe all you need is the right push.

Photo

Saunders gives us three tour guides to explain the rules of this afterworld. Hans Vollman calls his coffin a temporary “sick-box”; when he recovers, he will finally consummate his marriage (there have been complications). As long as Vollman clings to this wish, he’s dallying among the tombstones. Roger Bevins III is a love-struck suicide who decided, as his blood drained from his veins, to follow his gay “predilection.” He, too, is confined to bardo until he can accept that his resolve arrived too late and that he has kicked the bucket. The Rev. Everly Thomas is the only spirit who is aware of where and why everyone is stuck, and he has his own reasons for tarrying.

Three guides, and one guest of honor: Willie Lincoln, the 11-year-old son of the president. The “sort of child people imagine their children will be, before they have children,” he has caught his death of cold. The novel spans the night of his burial, as his presence upends the order of the cemetery. For one thing, “young ones are not meant to tarry” — unburdened by a lifetime’s accumulation of failures and regret, they usually pass over quickly. But a visit by his grieving father agitates the boy, as well as his graveyard neighbors. Making his way to his son’s crypt in the darkness, the president is an “exceedingly tall and unkempt fellow” who “might have been . . . a sculpture on the theme of loss,” and his demonstration of love calls up all sorts of weird feelings in the lingering souls. “It was cheering. It gave us hope,” Reverend Thomas says, “as if one were still worthy of affection and respect” even in this debased state. Roger Bevins III draws a similarly optimistic conclusion. “We were perhaps not so unlovable as we had come to believe,” he says. If the spirits can persuade this boy to undertake his rightful departure to the Other Side, they might be saved as well. It will be a long night.

The souls crowd around this uncanny child. As the cast grows, so does our perspective; the novel’s concerns expand, and we see this human business as an angel does, looking down. In the midst of the Civil War, saying farewell to one son foreshadows all those impending farewells to sons, the hundreds of thousands of those who will fall in the battlefields. The stakes grow, from our heavenly vantage, for we are talking about not just the ghostly residents of a few acres, but the citizens of a nation — in the graveyard’s slaves and slavers, drunkards and priests, soldiers of doomed regiments, suicides and virgins, are assembled a country. The wretched and the brave, and such is Saunders’s magnificent portraiture that readers will recognize in this wretchedness and bravery aspects of their own characters as well. He has gathered “sweet fools” here, and we are counted among their number.

Readers with conservative tastes may (foolishly) be put off by the novel’s form — it is a kind of oral history, a collage built from a series of testimonies consisting of one line or three lines or a page and a half, some delivered by the novel’s characters, some drawn from historical sources. The narrator is a curator, arranging disparate sources to assemble a linear story. It may take a few pages to get your footing, depending. The more limber won’t be bothered. We’ve had plenty of otherworldly choruses before, from Grover’s Corners to Spoon River, and with so many walking dead in the pop culture nowadays, why not a corresponding increase in the talking dead? Are the nonfiction excerpts — from presidential historians, Lincoln biographers, Civil War chroniclers — real or fake? Who cares? Keep going, read the novel, Google later.

Video

For the full film and other virtual reality videos, download the NYT VR app. Text yourself a link to get the app. Please enter a 10-digit US mobile number. Too many attempts. Please wait 24 hours or enter a different number before trying again. We’re sorry, something went wrong. () Text Me For iOS and Android. Standard messaging rates may apply. Your information is used only to deliver a one-time text message. Your link is on the way! Didn’t receive it? Try again.

Though I’ve met George Saunders a few times, we’re not buddy-buddy. I might lend him 10 bucks if he asked — I trust he’s good for it — but given how rarely our paths cross I know it would be a while before I saw it again, and that’s O.K. As with you, probably, I know him chiefly through his work, including “Pastoralia” and “CivilWarLand in Bad Decline,” his satirical diagnoses of our post-post-modern condition: our theme park life, mass-produced existential writhings, the communal pig-wallow in the mud pits of consumerism. But if the historical theme park in “CivilWarLand” was a stage for its workers’ ludicrous miseries, the war here is a crucible for a heroic American identity: fearful but unflagging; hopeful even in tragedy; staggering, however tentatively, toward a better world.

The father must say goodbye to his son, the son must say goodbye to the father. Abraham Lincoln must stop being the father to a lost boy and assume his role as a father to a nation, one on the brink of cataclysm. It is a perilous moment, the sort that comes along every so often, where it seems the country is listing and about to tip and only steady hands can right the ship. Survival depends not only on the captain, but on all aboard. Here we insert the common observation that the inanity of modern life has left the satirist unable to compete; pour one out for the absurdists among us. But events sometimes conspire to make a work of art, like a novel set in the past, supremely timely. In describing Lincoln’s call to action, Saunders provides an appeal for his limbo denizens — for citizens everywhere — to step up and join the cause. As one graveyard slave puts it, inspired by the great man in his mourning: “Sir, if you are as powerful as I feel that you are, and as inclined toward us as you seem to be, endeavor to do something for us, so that we might do something for ourselves. We are ready, sir; are angry, are capable, our hopes are coiled up so tight as to be deadly, or holy: Turn us loose, sir, let us at it, let us show what we can do.”