California officer shot and killed after responding to crash identified
California officer shot and killed after responding to crash identified
Shares               A veteran officer was killed and another injured after a parolee opened fire on them after they responded to a traffic incident today in Whittier, California, police officials said. The officers responded to a reported incident — in which a driver, who police said was driving a stolen car, rear-ended multiple other vehicles — around 8 a.m. Lt. John Corina of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office said the suspect, who was not named, moved his car around the corner after the collisions. When officers arrived on the scene, the other drivers, who had refused to give the suspect a ride, indicated that he had moved his car. The officers, who did not know at the time that the car was stolen, made contact the suspect and went to pat him down, and he pulled out a gun and opened fire, police said.       Corina said the suspect was 26, a "known gang member" and was armed with a semiautomatic handgun. He was released from jail a week ago. The officers returned fire, wounding him. The suspect was released on parole two weeks ago and has made statements to police. The two officers and the suspect were hospitalized after the shooting, and one officer, Keith Wayne Boyer, died at the hospital. The surviving officer, Patrick Hazel, and the suspect are in stable condition, according to Corina. Boyer became an officer with the Whittier Police Department in 1990 and was remembered as positive and energetic, according to the department's chief, Jeff Piper. He was from the area and had grown children, Piper said.  Shares                  California officer shot and killed after responding to crash identified   Revised immigration order expected to renew ban on 7 Muslim-majority countries   11 travelers pass security at JFK without proper screening: Sources   Global stocks mixed after Wall Street's long weekend   Malaysia: No cause of death yet for exiled North Korean   Israeli court gives soldier 18 months for fatal shooting   Breitbart's Milo Yiannopoulos disinvited to speak at CPAC   Russia's ambassador to the United Nations dies   GOP health plan: Lower costs, better care, or road to ruin?   Assassination of Kim Jong Nam appears to be visible on CCTV footage   Kremlin: Trump associates' peace plan for Ukraine 'absurd'   DC panda fans bam-boo-hoo as US-born cub leaves for China   Death toll in Philippine bus crash climbs to 15   Zimbabwe's Mugabe turns 93, says he will stand in 2018 polls   N. Korean envoy blasts Malaysians, calls for joint probe   Congressman intends to sue over removal of painting   Majority of parents with children at home don't lock up prescribed opioids, study finds   New Zealand judge upholds Kim Dotcom extradition ruling   New John F. Kennedy stamp marks centennial of his birth   LA the world's most traffic-clogged city, study says   Meet the woman who broke barriers as a hidden figure at the US Navy   Photo of mystery suspect prompts calls 'from everywhere' in Indiana teens' murder   Unidentified man in photo called suspect in Indiana girls' killings   Small Indiana town left heartbroken and rattled by murders of 2 teens   Frances Bean Cobain pays tribute to her late father on his 50th birthday   Magnitude 4.7 earthquake shakes Panama's capital   COLUMN: Think Mount Rushmore to unite the country, build respect   Oscars 2017: 5 things to know about 'Moonlight' director Barry Jenkins   Soccer star Abby Wambach is engaged   Casey Affleck: 5 things to know about the Oscar nominee

A veteran officer was killed and another injured after a parolee opened fire on them after they responded to a traffic incident today in Whittier, California, police officials said.

The officers responded to a reported incident — in which a driver, who police said was driving a stolen car, rear-ended multiple other vehicles — around 8 a.m.

Lt. John Corina of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office said the suspect, who was not named, moved his car around the corner after the collisions.

When officers arrived on the scene, the other drivers, who had refused to give the suspect a ride, indicated that he had moved his car.

The officers, who did not know at the time that the car was stolen, made contact the suspect and went to pat him down, and he pulled out a gun and opened fire, police said.

KABC

"When they got the call, it was just a traffic accident, and they didn't know what they had," Corina told reporters. "When they went to contact him, that's when the shooting happened."

Corina said the suspect was 26, a "known gang member" and was armed with a semiautomatic handgun. He was released from jail a week ago.

The officers returned fire, wounding him.

The suspect was released on parole two weeks ago and has made statements to police.

The two officers and the suspect were hospitalized after the shooting, and one officer, Keith Wayne Boyer, died at the hospital. The surviving officer, Patrick Hazel, and the suspect are in stable condition, according to Corina.

Boyer became an officer with the Whittier Police Department in 1990 and was remembered as positive and energetic, according to the department's chief, Jeff Piper.

He was from the area and had grown children, Piper said.

ABC News' Michael Kreisel contributed to this report.