Woman jailed after suffocating cousin during exorcism
Woman jailed after suffocating her cousin during exorcism


A woman has been jailed for six years after beating and suffocating her cousin during an exorcism at a German hotel.

Seonhwa P, 41, from South Korea, was attacked after she began talking to herself and lashing out during a hotel stay in Frankfurt in December 2015.

Five of her family members decided to perform an exorcism on her.

A 16-year-old South Korean covers his face as he is led into a court room by a lawyer in Frankfurt, Germany

Seonhwa P, 41, from South Korea, was attacked after she began talking to herself and lashing out during a hotel stay in Frankfurt in December 2015

The woman's chest and stomach were beaten while she was gagged first with a towel and then a cloth-covered coat hanger during a two-hour ordeal.

The victim suffered 'massive chest compression and trauma to the neck' and died of asphyxiation.

Judges at the district court in the western city of Frankfurt found the victim's 44-year-old cousin, described as the main perpetrator, guilty of inflicting bodily harm causing death.

The guilty woman, named as Doean K, had 'taken it upon herself to decide over life and death', prosecutor Nadja Boettinger said during the trial.

Also accused were her son, 22, and daughter, 19, as well as a 16-year-old cousin.

The four other family members accused of taking part in the ritual were handed suspended sentences ranging from 18 months to two years.

Judges at the district court in the western city of Frankfurt found the victim's 44-year-old cousin, described as the main perpetrator, guilty of inflicting bodily harm causing death

The guilty woman, named as Doean K, had 'taken it upon herself to decide over life and death', prosecutor Nadja Boettinger said during the trial

In delivering his ruling, the presiding judge said the family had acted in the belief that they were chasing away the victim's demons, calling it 'a tragic case'.

After finding the woman's body at the hotel, police at the time also discovered a possible second victim in the garage of a house the group had rented in the town of Sulzbach.

The second woman, who was found alive, was badly injured and suffering from hypothermia and dehydration.