Hepatitis C will be eradicated in Australia by 2026, researchers predict



Hepatitis C will be eradicated in Australia by 2026, researchers predict

Updated

Hepatitis C may soon be a thing of the past, with Australia well on the way to eradicating the potentially deadly virus within the next 10 years, researchers say.

Key points: Report finds Australia able to eradicate hepatitis C by 2026

More than 30,000 Australians treated for the disease last year

Cure rate for risen from 10 per cent to close to 100 per cent in two decades

Researchers say the Federal Government's aggressive approach to funding treatments and cures is paying off, with the cure rate lifting close to 100 per cent.

More than 30,000 people were treated for hepatitis C last year, according to a report published by the Kirby Institute at the University of New South Wales.

The report found Australia was in a position to eradicate the disease by 2026.

The Institute's Professor Greg Dore said the Federal Government is largely responsible.

"Most countries, because of the high prices of these new treatments, they've had to restrict the treatments to those with very advanced liver disease," Professor Dore said.

"But Australia's been able to provide access to people across the disease spectrum.

"Whether you've got major liver damage, or no significant liver damage, you can come forward and access treatment.

He said the cure rate for hepatitis C had gone from 10 per cent to almost 100 per cent in two decades.

"We need to keep the momentum up and there are a lot of strategies that are being put in place to do that," Professor Dore said.

"[These include] rolling out better treatment programs in methadone clinics, better programs in prisons, raising awareness within the community of people affected by hepatitis C about these new therapies."

Developments in treatment 'a miracle'

Emmanuel, who has had hepatitis C for close to 30 years, was 22 when he was diagnosed.

He said the initial diagnosis came as a surprise in spite of his drug use.

"I was a bit shocked because even though I was a needle user at the time, I'd never shared a needle," he said.

"But I was sharing equipment such as spoons, and back then we didn't know much about hep C."

The blood-borne virus, which attacks the liver, forced Emmanuel to reassess his life.

He quit drugs and drinking, and underwent regular testing for decades to make sure his liver was still functioning.

"After each test, that was a troubled time because you are hoping that your test wouldn't come back worse than the last one," he said.

Last year's rollout of powerful antiviral treatment Zepatier — now available on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme — cured Emmanuel of hep C.

"I feel like I have a lot more energy, but also I don't live with that fear of discrimination anymore."

He said the new developments in hepatitis C treatment felt like a miracle.

"It's quite magical to think that we haven't even got a cure for the common cold, and yet we're coming up with cures for more serious illnesses, and I just think that's amazing."

But in spite of the high cure rate, Professor Greg Dore said access to clean injecting equipment remains essential.

"While we've got these incredible treatments, which is amazing, we shouldn't forget prevention strategies that Australians had in place for the last two decades."

Topics: hepatitis, healthcare-facilities, australia

First posted