OracleVoice: GE Digital: Beyond A 'Cartoonish Version' Of The Internet Of Things
OracleVoice: GE Digital: Beyond A 'Cartoonish Version' Of The Internet Of Things
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Oracle       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. No blue chip company has embraced the Internet of Things more aggressively than industrial giant GE. The company’s software-endowed wind turbines, medical imaging systems, lighting fixtures, appliances, jet engines, locomotives, and other internet-connected “things” now generate reams of data, which GE and its customers analyze to improve system uptime, cut costs, and deliver a variety of other business outcomes. For example, by using software developed on GE’s Predix operating system to collect and analyze the terabytes of data generated by a jet engine every flight, the maintenance crews of GE’s airline customers can determine when to replace a component before it malfunctions, avoiding costly unscheduled downtime. To put that opportunity into context, GE estimates that 41% of flight cancellations or delays are caused by mechanical failure. How much would it be worth to an airline to eliminate such failures? (For a deeper dive into GE Digital’s ambitious strategy, read the magazine article .) Bill Ruh is GE’s chief digital officer and CEO of its 17-month-old GE Digital unit. We asked Bill Ruh, GE’s chief digital officer and CEO of its 17-month-old GE Digital unit, whether he worries that the likes of Google or some digital startup are better placed than GE to grab the $200 billion-plus market opportunity the company calls the “industrial internet,” a subset of the Internet of Things. “Not at all,” was Ruh’s immediate answer. He explained: “Terms like IoT are absurdly confusing—OK, connect the machine and get data off it. Everybody can do that. Well, no—that’s a simplistic, cartoonish version of the IoT world.” It’s one thing to instrument, network, and collect data from a home thermostat, as Google is doing with the Nest business it acquired for $3.2 billion in 2014. It’s another thing to deploy sensors and applications nationwide at one of the largest US energy providers, as GE Digital is doing to improve the reliability and performance of Exelon’s nuclear, hydroelectric, wind, solar, and natural gas facilities. Those plants generate tens of thousands of megawatts of power. “Are those two things the same? Of course not,” Ruh says. GE has an advantage in industrial markets not only against digital rivals that lack its deep domain expertise, he insists, but also against traditional manufacturing competitors such as Siemens and Honeywell, which flexed their digital muscles early on by acquiring a range of industrial software vendors. The problem now for those companies, Ruh maintains, is that their software is based on last-generation technology that doesn’t interoperate well with systems from other vendors. “The real action is going to be in next-gen manufacturing, where the entire technology is going to shift in the next decade,” Ruh says. “And if you aren’t on the new cloud architecture, you’re not going to be able to compete, either as the one who uses it or the one who sells it.” GE Digital, based in San Ramon, California, employs more than 21,000 developers to build industrial IoT applications on top of Predix, a distributed operating system it rolled out in February 2016. And it has hired more than 2,000 software developers and engineers to complement the domain experts in GE’s aviation, power, transportation, oil and gas, healthcare, renewable energy, and other industrial divisions. “If you don’t figure out how to get more productivity and efficiency in your products, someone else will,” Ruh explains. “In the end, every major company has to be a software company, because if you don’t own this asset, you stand to be disrupted.” GE Digital has also signed up more than 270 integration, technology, and other corporate partners, including Oracle, Tata Consultancy Services, Accenture, and Intel. For example, GE Digital is working with Oracle to integrate its operational technology (the software that collects, organizes, and analyzes industrial machine data) with Oracle’s information technology (the ERP and other software that manages companies’ manufacturing, supply chain, financial, HR, and other business processes). “What a customer really wants is, ‘I’ve got a deep investment in Oracle. I’ve got a deep investment with GE. If you guys could work together, I’ll make a deeper investment in both of you because I’ve got somebody who knows me to make sure things go right,’” Ruh says. “That’s what this is going to be about, not about some startup creating an IoT platform and then saying they could do everything for everybody.” GE Digital already generates about $6 billion in revenue from the software and digital services it packages with GE’s and other companies’ industrial systems.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

No blue chip company has embraced the Internet of Things more aggressively than industrial giant GE. The company’s software-endowed wind turbines, medical imaging systems, lighting fixtures, appliances, jet engines, locomotives, and other internet-connected “things” now generate reams of data, which GE and its customers analyze to improve system uptime, cut costs, and deliver a variety of other business outcomes.

For example, by using software developed on GE’s Predix operating system to collect and analyze the terabytes of data generated by a jet engine every flight, the maintenance crews of GE’s airline customers can determine when to replace a component before it malfunctions, avoiding costly unscheduled downtime. To put that opportunity into context, GE estimates that 41% of flight cancellations or delays are caused by mechanical failure. How much would it be worth to an airline to eliminate such failures?

(For a deeper dive into GE Digital’s ambitious strategy, read the Profit magazine article.)

We asked Bill Ruh, GE’s chief digital officer and CEO of its 17-month-old GE Digital unit, whether he worries that the likes of Google or some digital startup are better placed than GE to grab the $200 billion-plus market opportunity the company calls the “industrial internet,” a subset of the Internet of Things.

“Not at all,” was Ruh’s immediate answer. He explained:

“Terms like IoT are absurdly confusing—OK, connect the machine and get data off it. Everybody can do that. Well, no—that’s a simplistic, cartoonish version of the IoT world.”

It’s one thing to instrument, network, and collect data from a home thermostat, as Google is doing with the Nest business it acquired for $3.2 billion in 2014. It’s another thing to deploy sensors and applications nationwide at one of the largest US energy providers, as GE Digital is doing to improve the reliability and performance of Exelon’s nuclear, hydroelectric, wind, solar, and natural gas facilities. Those plants generate tens of thousands of megawatts of power.

“Are those two things the same? Of course not,” Ruh says.

GE has an advantage in industrial markets not only against digital rivals that lack its deep domain expertise, he insists, but also against traditional manufacturing competitors such as Siemens and Honeywell, which flexed their digital muscles early on by acquiring a range of industrial software vendors. The problem now for those companies, Ruh maintains, is that their software is based on last-generation technology that doesn’t interoperate well with systems from other vendors.

“The real action is going to be in next-gen manufacturing, where the entire technology is going to shift in the next decade,” Ruh says. “And if you aren’t on the new cloud architecture, you’re not going to be able to compete, either as the one who uses it or the one who sells it.”

Software Expertise

GE Digital, based in San Ramon, California, employs more than 21,000 developers to build industrial IoT applications on top of Predix, a distributed operating system it rolled out in February 2016. And it has hired more than 2,000 software developers and engineers to complement the domain experts in GE’s aviation, power, transportation, oil and gas, healthcare, renewable energy, and other industrial divisions.

“If you don’t figure out how to get more productivity and efficiency in your products, someone else will,” Ruh explains. “In the end, every major company has to be a software company, because if you don’t own this asset, you stand to be disrupted.”

GE Digital has also signed up more than 270 integration, technology, and other corporate partners, including Oracle, Tata Consultancy Services, Accenture, and Intel. For example, GE Digital is working with Oracle to integrate its operational technology (the software that collects, organizes, and analyzes industrial machine data) with Oracle’s information technology (the ERP and other software that manages companies’ manufacturing, supply chain, financial, HR, and other business processes).

“What a customer really wants is, ‘I’ve got a deep investment in Oracle. I’ve got a deep investment with GE. If you guys could work together, I’ll make a deeper investment in both of you because I’ve got somebody who knows me to make sure things go right,’” Ruh says. “That’s what this is going to be about, not about some startup creating an IoT platform and then saying they could do everything for everybody.”

GE Digital already generates about $6 billion in revenue from the software and digital services it packages with GE’s and other companies’ industrial systems.

Rob Preston is editorial director for Oracle.