British Cycling accused of covering up bullying culture and misleading UK Sport
British Cycling accused of covering up bullying culture and misleading UK Sport
ritish Cycling stood accused of a damning cover-up of alleged bullying on Tuesday night amid explosive claims it misled UK Sport over an internal review that exposed a “culture of fear” in the sport. The beleaguered governing body of the country’s most successful Olympic sport was hit with arguably the most serious allegation of the wave to have engulfed it after a summary of a 2012 report it provided to UK Sport was said by the latter’s chief executive to have improperly reflected “the actual facts” of the full document and smacked of “a complete lack of transparency”. That report, which has never been made public, was produced in the wake of the London Olympics and was based on a review by former British Cycling chief executive Peter King, who is said to have been told about accusations of bullying on its elite programme as well as being specifically warned about the alleged conduct of now ex-technical director Shane Sutton. UK Sport, which handed British Cycling £30 million of taxpayer and National Lottery cash in the four years up to Rio 2016, received a summary of the King report at the end of 2012 but did not request the full document until last year. That was after an independent review into the governing body was commissioned in the wake of accusations Sutton had told former Olympic sprinter Jess Varnish to “go and have a baby”, had used the word “bitches” to her, and had called disabled cyclists “gimps” and “wobblies”. utton, who has always denied the claims, was cleared by British Cycling in November of eight of nine charges against him , with one of using inappropriate and discriminatory language upheld. The independent review, meanwhile, is expected to be highly critical of the governing body but could also make uncomfortable reading for UK Sport amid questions over whether it submitted the sport to sufficient scrutiny while the medals kept rolling in. But the chief executive of UK Sport, Liz Nicholl, claimed it had been lured into a false sense of security by the summary of the King report. “What we received from them as a summary of what the report was saying did not raise any alarm bells at all,” she said. “That’s a complete lack of transparency and that’s a relationship that is not acceptable in terms of what was shared with us as opposed to what the actual facts of that report were.” Asked whether British Cycling was guilty of a cover-up, Nicholl nodded, adding: “We wouldn’t expect that to happen. We would’ve expected to receive the full report at the time.” icholl indicated UK Sport could and would have intervened at an earlier stage had it been aware of issues she insisted it had no knowledge of until last year. Asked who was ultimately responsible for submitting to UK Sport the King report, which was produced when Team Sky supremo Sir Dave Brailsford was British Cycling’s performance director and International Cycling Union president Brian Cookson was its president, Nicholl replied: “The accountable officer at British Cycling, so Ian Drake.” Drake, who could not be reached for comment on Tuesday, stepped down as chief executive of British Cycling last month , having denied he was doing so because of the controversies to have engulfed the sport. They include a UK Anti-Doping investigation into a medical package delivered to Sir Bradley Wiggins on the final day of the Criterium du Dauphine in 2011 , over which there have been repeated denials of wrongdoing. King on Tuesday night said he had not written the summary of the report delivered to UK Sport and did not know who at British Cycling would have been privy to it. e added: “As far as I’m aware, my original report was delivered to Ian Drake and I don’t know how much further it went after that. “There were various presentations made at the time to the staff and to the board which were a direct result of the report – lessons that needed to be learned etc – but I don’t think the full report was shared with them. “What I do know is that a lot of people told me things in my report that they would have expected to be acted upon. And I don’t want them to think it was my fault that they haven’t been.” A British Cycling spokesman said of the King report: “Contributions were made with a guarantee of anonymity, so key findings and recommendations were shared in briefings with UK Sport and the British Cycling board. “The full report was also made available to the 2016 independent review, jointly commissioned by UK Sport and British Cycling in April last year, of the world-class programme. British Cycling and UK Sport are currently working with the commissioning panel on the publication of the independent review. “Significant restructuring of the British Cycling organisation has already taken place alongside the completion of the review, both the board and the executive leadership team, led by new chair Jonathan Browning, are determined the review will be a catalyst for change in making British Cycling a world-leading governing body.” icholl promised the findings and recommendations of the current independent review  would not be watered down and would be acted upon, even if they were critical of UK Sport itself. She revealed it would not be published for another “month or so”, far beyond the original intended date of November, in order to ensure whistleblowers could not be identified and that anyone criticised in the report was given the right of reply. Denying UK Sport was “sitting on” the report, outgoing chairman Rod Carr, said: “In the big scheme of things looking back 10 years, whether it’s in November or March is not going to make any difference. Get it wrong, it’ll make a big difference. We’ve got to get it right.”

British Cycling stood accused of a damning cover-up of alleged bullying on Tuesday night amid explosive claims it misled UK Sport over an internal review that exposed a “culture of fear” in the sport.

The beleaguered governing body of the country’s most successful Olympic sport was hit with arguably the most serious allegation of the wave to have engulfed it after a summary of a 2012 report it provided to UK Sport was said by the latter’s chief executive to have improperly reflected “the actual facts” of the full document and smacked of “a complete lack of transparency”.

That report, which has never been made public, was produced in the wake of the London Olympics and was based on a review by former British Cycling chief executive Peter King, who is said to have been told about accusations of bullying on its elite programme as well as being specifically warned about the alleged conduct of now ex-technical director Shane Sutton.

UK Sport, which handed British Cycling £30 million of taxpayer and National Lottery cash in the four years up to Rio 2016, received a summary of the King report at the end of 2012 but did not request the full document until last year.

That was after an independent review into the governing body was commissioned in the wake of accusations Sutton had told former Olympic sprinter Jess Varnish to “go and have a baby”, had used the word “bitches” to her, and had called disabled cyclists “gimps” and “wobblies”.