How Long Before The Dow Jones Industrial Average Reaches 21,000?
How Long Before The Dow Jones Industrial Average Reaches 21,000?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Roger Aitken       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Has there ever been this much bullishness in equity markets? The reflationary trade has pushed US and UK stock markets to fresh highs, with the Dow Jones, S&P 500, Nasdaq, FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 all notching up new records today despite the renewed prospect of an interest rate hike in the US next month. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) breached 20,000 for the first time on January 25. And, after fading at the end of last month it would appear to have now broken free. But what's next for the index? Neil Wilson, a market strategist at brokerage ETX Capital in London, said back then in late January that it would “not be long” before a level of 21,000 was in sight. He was not far wrong. Today the major U.S. blue-chip index just needed to rise a little over 2% to reach that level. At 12.04pm EST this Wednesday the index was up 78.22 (+0.38%) at 20,582.63 points. Compared to this time one year ago - when it stood at 16,196.41 on February 16, 2016  - it is up a tad over 27% over that time and an impressive 4,386.22 points to the good. People walk by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) early this February. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images). The prospect of higher rates being announced by the Federal Reserve Open Markets Committee (FOMC), which convenes its next meeting on March 14-15 and will include a Summary of Economic Projections and a press conference by the Chair, and loosening of bank regulation means financials will likely continue to lead the assault. “The odds of the Fed hiking rates again in March improved after inflation accelerated to a five-year high of 2.5% and retail sales smashed expectations,” said Wilson at the FCA-regulated brokerage in The City of London. He added: “The data points to interest rates rising sooner rather than later as we see signs the US economy is getting hot. Fed chair Janet Yellen’s testimony in Congress is further fuelling expectations that we are back on for March and the market is pricing in a roughly 40% chance [of a hike].” In remarks this week (February 14/15) before the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in Washington, D.C., Yellen noted that since her appearance before the Committee in June last year, that the US economy has continued to make progress toward the Fed’s “dual-mandate objectives of maximum employment and price stability.” In the labor market, job gains averaged 190,000 per month over the second half of 2016, and the number of jobs rose an additional 227,000 in January. These gains brought the total increase in employment since its trough in early 2010 to nearly 16 million. Additionally, the unemployment rate, which stood at 4.8% this January, is more than 5 percentage points lower than where it stood at its peak in 2010 and “now in line with the median of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) participants’ estimates of its longer-run normal level.” In relation to monetary policy, Yellen stated in her closing comments: “The economic outlook is uncertain, and monetary policy is not on a pre-set course. FOMC participants will adjust their assessments of the appropriate path for the Federal funds rate in response to changes to the economic outlook and associated risks as informed by incoming data.” But remember too that the market had been waiting to see what Donald Trump’s tax and spending plans were comprised of. This has the potential to do some serious disruption and send equities soaring again, led by banks and cyclicals, while also fuelling further gains for the US dollar off the back of anticipated rate hikes. Bang on cue, and no doubt with an “eye to outshine” Yellen according to Wilson, Trump offered a tantalizing foretaste of planned tax reforms that sent the Dow soaring to new record highs today as the London market came to a close. The DJIA bounced off the 20,604 level after the US President stated that he will greatly reduce taxes. Markets are taking this as the fodder they need for a fresh pop higher in equities. “He was short on details but based on what we've seen so far from this radical president there is no reason to think that the tax plans will be anything less than a major shift in US fiscal policy,” Wilson remarked. “Major pro-business tax reform has been on the cards but today’s comments reiterate his intentions.” The gains today on the Dow are not quite so spectacular as attention was on Yellen’s testimony, but the US blue-chip index is being led higher by Procter & Gamble, which rose more than 3% to $90.65 at 2.02pm in New York after activist investor Nelson Pelz took a $3 billion stake in the firm. On the FTSE 100 in London, the heavy lifting was being done by the banks, which are rising on the prospect of global interest rates moving higher. Ahead of earnings from the ‘Big 5’ banks next week, investors are showing plenty of bullishness around the sector. Barclays and HSBC have both been on a tear since Brexit and there is even a touch more optimism around embattled Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) of late as it starts to see some light at the end of a very long and dark tunnel. Conduct charges and fines are eating up less of banks’ profits now and with reflation the name of the game the outlook seems to be improving. A word of caution though for investors. The strong performance of US equities in recent weeks has brought comparisons to the ‘melt-up’ in 1999. A melt up is a sudden jump in the market resulting from investors rushing in as they fear missing out on a big rally. Some like Dr Wallace Wormley, Harvard Ph.D.-educated and founder of private investment consultancy provides a range of investment consulting solutions to institutional clients and family offices, recently a speculative increase in asset prices and unhealthy since it leaves the market “vulnerable to sharp downdrafts.” It might well be a case of irrational exuberance. Peter Nigro , Professor and Chair of the Finance Department at Bryant University (Smithfield, R.I), said at the back end of last year that it was "somewhat impossible" to truly predict how markets will settle into a Trump presidency given the ambiguity of some of his positions. In terms of the number of rate hikes Nigro said this will depend on the “economic tea leaves” before the FOMC’s meetings. That said, prior to the last hike, Nigro, who trained as a labor economist and worked in Washington, D.C. at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (a bureau of the US Department of the Treasury), had been expecting two to three 25 basis points (bps) interest rate rises over 2017. After the FOMC meeting scheduled for this March the market will have to wait until May 2-3 for the committee to convene again. Banks clearly like less regulation and would like to see at least some parts of the Dodd-Frank Act go away, which Trump slammed as a “disaster” late this January and vowed to “do a big number” on it soon. Dodd-Frank was enacted back in 2010 as President Obama administration's response to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and to prevent the banks making the same mistakes they made around decade ago. The Dow was trading at 1.51pm today just shy of 20,600 at - up 0.42% (+85.57 points). While the bulls tried very hard to push the FTSE in London to a record close at the death, it fell just short. As to whether the Dow can push up towards 21,000 and beyond remains to be seen in the coming days and weeks. But it can’t be discounted although caveat emptor might be the byword.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Has there ever been this much bullishness in equity markets? The reflationary trade has pushed US and UK stock markets to fresh highs, with the Dow Jones, S&P 500, Nasdaq, FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 all notching up new records today despite the renewed prospect of an interest rate hike in the US next month.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) breached 20,000 for the first time on January 25. And, after fading at the end of last month it would appear to have now broken free. But what's next for the index?

Neil Wilson, a market strategist at brokerage ETX Capital in London, said back then in late January that it would “not be long” before a level of 21,000 was in sight. He was not far wrong.

Today the major U.S. blue-chip index just needed to rise a little over 2% to reach that level. At 12.04pm EST this Wednesday the index was up 78.22 (+0.38%) at 20,582.63 points. Compared to this time one year ago - when it stood at 16,196.41 on February 16, 2016 - it is up a tad over 27% over that time and an impressive 4,386.22 points to the good.

The prospect of higher rates being announced by the Federal Reserve Open Markets Committee (FOMC), which convenes its next meeting on March 14-15 and will include a Summary of Economic Projections and a press conference by the Chair, and loosening of bank regulation means financials will likely continue to lead the assault.

“The odds of the Fed hiking rates again in March improved after inflation accelerated to a five-year high of 2.5% and retail sales smashed expectations,” said Wilson at the FCA-regulated brokerage in The City of London.

He added: “The data points to interest rates rising sooner rather than later as we see signs the US economy is getting hot. Fed chair Janet Yellen’s testimony in Congress is further fuelling expectations that we are back on for March and the market is pricing in a roughly 40% chance [of a hike].”

In remarks this week (February 14/15) before the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in Washington, D.C., Yellen noted that since her appearance before the Committee in June last year, that the US economy has continued to make progress toward the Fed’s “dual-mandate objectives of maximum employment and price stability.”

In the labor market, job gains averaged 190,000 per month over the second half of 2016, and the number of jobs rose an additional 227,000 in January. These gains brought the total increase in employment since its trough in early 2010 to nearly 16 million.

Additionally, the unemployment rate, which stood at 4.8% this January, is more than 5 percentage points lower than where it stood at its peak in 2010 and “now in line with the median of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) participants’ estimates of its longer-run normal level.”

In relation to monetary policy, Yellen stated in her closing comments: “The economic outlook is uncertain, and monetary policy is not on a pre-set course. FOMC participants will adjust their assessments of the appropriate path for the Federal funds rate in response to changes to the economic outlook and associated risks as informed by incoming data.”

Trump’s Tax Talk Cranks Dow Higher

But remember too that the market had been waiting to see what Donald Trump’s tax and spending plans were comprised of. This has the potential to do some serious disruption and send equities soaring again, led by banks and cyclicals, while also fuelling further gains for the US dollar off the back of anticipated rate hikes.

Bang on cue, and no doubt with an “eye to outshine” Yellen according to Wilson, Trump offered a tantalizing foretaste of planned tax reforms that sent the Dow soaring to new record highs today as the London market came to a close.

The DJIA bounced off the 20,604 level after the US President stated that he will greatly reduce taxes. Markets are taking this as the fodder they need for a fresh pop higher in equities.

“He was short on details but based on what we've seen so far from this radical president there is no reason to think that the tax plans will be anything less than a major shift in US fiscal policy,” Wilson remarked. “Major pro-business tax reform has been on the cards but today’s comments reiterate his intentions.”

The gains today on the Dow are not quite so spectacular as attention was on Yellen’s testimony, but the US blue-chip index is being led higher by Procter & Gamble, which rose more than 3% to $90.65 at 2.02pm in New York after activist investor Nelson Pelz took a $3 billion stake in the firm.

On the FTSE 100 in London, the heavy lifting was being done by the banks, which are rising on the prospect of global interest rates moving higher. Ahead of earnings from the ‘Big 5’ banks next week, investors are showing plenty of bullishness around the sector.

Barclays and HSBC have both been on a tear since Brexit and there is even a touch more optimism around embattled Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) of late as it starts to see some light at the end of a very long and dark tunnel. Conduct charges and fines are eating up less of banks’ profits now and with reflation the name of the game the outlook seems to be improving.

A word of caution though for investors. The strong performance of US equities in recent weeks has brought comparisons to the ‘melt-up’ in 1999. A melt up is a sudden jump in the market resulting from investors rushing in as they fear missing out on a big rally.

Some like Dr Wallace Wormley, Harvard Ph.D.-educated and founder of private investment consultancy OSPARA that provides a range of investment consulting solutions to institutional clients and family offices, recently noted that this was a speculative increase in asset prices and unhealthy since it leaves the market “vulnerable to sharp downdrafts.” It might well be a case of irrational exuberance.

Peter Nigro, Professor and Chair of the Finance Department at Bryant University (Smithfield, R.I), said at the back end of last year that it was "somewhat impossible" to truly predict how markets will settle into a Trump presidency given the ambiguity of some of his positions.

In terms of the number of rate hikes Nigro said this will depend on the “economic tea leaves” before the FOMC’s meetings.

That said, prior to the last hike, Nigro, who trained as a labor economist and worked in Washington, D.C. at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (a bureau of the US Department of the Treasury), had been expecting two to three 25 basis points (bps) interest rate rises over 2017. After the FOMC meeting scheduled for this March the market will have to wait until May 2-3 for the committee to convene again.

Banks clearly like less regulation and would like to see at least some parts of the Dodd-Frank Act go away, which Trump slammed as a “disaster” late this January and vowed to “do a big number” on it soon. Dodd-Frank was enacted back in 2010 as President Obama administration's response to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and to prevent the banks making the same mistakes they made around decade ago.

The Dow was trading at 1.51pm today just shy of 20,600 at - up 0.42% (+85.57 points). While the bulls tried very hard to push the FTSE in London to a record close at the death, it fell just short. As to whether the Dow can push up towards 21,000 and beyond remains to be seen in the coming days and weeks. But it can’t be discounted although caveat emptor might be the byword.