Blake Griffin Trade Rumors: Celtics, Clippers Reportedly Discussed Possible Deal
Blake Griffin Trade Rumors: Celtics, Clippers Reportedly Discussed Possible Deal
The Boston Celtics and Los Angeles Clippers have talked about a swap that would send Blake Griffin to Boston, per Zach Lowe of ESPN, though any deal is a long shot: They have talked intermittently with the Clippers about Blake Griffin in recent weeks, per several league sources, but a deal is unlikely. Griffin will be a free agent this summer, and Boston would probably need official permission to talk to him about his future -- a concession Minnesota allowed Cleveland before the Kevin Love trade. The Clips would ask for a bounty, starting with Jae Crowder and one of the Avery Bradley/ Marcus Smart duo, plus picks, per league sources. Griffin, 27, is having another strong season, averaging 21.9 points, 8.8 rebounds and 5.0 assists per game. He's been a monster since returning from a knee injury in late January, averaging 25.5 points, 8.8 rebounds and 6.3 assists in February. The Clippers have needed that production, with Chris Paul sidelined with a torn ligament in his left thumb. And they remain one of the great unknowns in the NBA . When they are fully healthy, the Clippers are arguably a top-five team. But as Lowe noted, they have never proved themselves capable of consistently beating the Golden State Warriors, have had " "Boston could contend now later by dealing some of its chips for an in-his-prime stud under contract, which is why they've zeroed in on Jimmy Butler and Paul George . Snag one, and Boston could still open more than $25 million in cap space this summer if they renounce their rights to Kelly Olynyk." Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Brian Babineau/Getty Images

The Boston Celtics and Los Angeles Clippers have talked about a swap that would send Blake Griffin to Boston, per Zach Lowe of ESPN, though any deal is a long shot:

They have talked intermittently with the Clippers about Blake Griffin in recent weeks, per several league sources, but a deal is extremely unlikely. Griffin will be a free agent this summer, and Boston would probably need official permission to talk to him about his future -- a concession Minnesota allowed Cleveland before the Kevin Love trade. The Clips would ask for a bounty, starting with Jae Crowder and one of the Avery Bradley/Marcus Smart duo, plus picks, per league sources.

Griffin, 27, is having another strong season, averaging 21.9 points, 8.8 rebounds and 5.0 assists per game. He's been a monster since returning from a knee injury in late January, averaging 25.5 points, 8.8 rebounds and 6.3 assists in February.

The Clippers have needed that production, with Chris Paul sidelined with a torn ligament in his left thumb. And they remain one of the great unknowns in the NBA. When they are fully healthy, the Clippers are arguably a top-five team.

But as Lowe noted, they have never proved themselves capable of consistently beating the Golden State Warriors, have had "severe bouts of angst in prior years," are heading into an offseason when Griffin, Paul and J.J. Redick are all set to hit free agency, and have a head coach and team president in Doc Rivers who "hates rebuilding."

That raises the question: Has their window closed? And would now be the moment to cash in on an asset like Griffin?

If the Clippers firmly believe Griffin and Paul will return, the answer to both questions is no.

But there are no guarantees, and a team like Boston has the assets to make trading Griffin a worthwhile decision. On the other hand, Paul may be less inclined to return to the Clippers if they move an established star for draft picks and younger players. By dealing Griffin, the Clippers would likely be ushering in a full rebuild.

And from Boston's perspective, is Griffin the right player to pair with Isaiah Thomas and Al Horford as part of the franchise's core?

His injury history will be a concern, and as Lowe noted, "Boston could contend now and later by dealing some of its chips for an in-his-prime stud under contract, which is why they've zeroed in on Jimmy Butler and Paul George. Snag one, and Boston could still open more than $25 million in cap space this summer if they renounce their rights to Kelly Olynyk."

Griffin, meanwhile, would demand a huge contract this offseason that could handcuff the Celtics. So there is a strong argument to be made that he wouldn't be the wisest investment for Boston. Add it all up, and it isn't hard to see why this trade remains unlikely.