Entirely pointless signs from around the world
You don't say! Entirely pointless signs from around the world


It's tricky to work out the reasoning behind some of these signs.

Who, for example, felt it necessary to erect a sign that forbids people from breathing underwater?

And how many times did shoppers try on condoms in the supermarket aisle before a warning notice was issued reading: 'Attention, please DO NOT open or try on the product.'

You'd like to think that anyone capable of passing a driving test would be familiar with the basic principles of rain - and yet one road sign in this collection reads: 'Caution, water on road during rain.'

Another somewhat confounding sign informs the viewer that 'hot water is hot!!!', with no less than three exclamation marks just to drive the point home.

Here, MailOnline Travel has compiled a gallery of contenders for the prize of most utterly useless notifications on earth.

Unless this sign is reserved for superhumans capable of defying the laws of physics, it's pretty redundant

You'd like to think that anyone capable of passing a driving test would be familiar with the basic principles of rain - but perhaps not?

It's hard to imagine why or how this sign came into existence, humans not being amphibious

How many times did shoppers try on condoms in the supermarket aisle before a warning notice was placed here?

Falling backwards off a cliff can indeed end in death - a good enough reason not to meander off the trail

How many people took a pew on this sub-optimal fence before it required its own sign to discourage the practice? We can only wonder

Another example of advice which, although wise, doesn't really need to be spelled out

Is this sign specific to this Xlerator hand dryer alone, or a broad statement regarding hand dryers in general?

As most of us know, balconies very seldom are on the ground level - that would make them patios

A stop sign with a sign under it to remind you that the above stop sign is a stop sign - information overload?

A step-by-step tutorial in the act of operating a bin, which will possibly never prove helpful to anyone, ever

When judgement fails, will this sign prevail?

Whoever issued this mini science lesson even felt it necessary to colour-code the adjective

This notice appears to be geared towards people not familiar with how screens work, although there can't be a very high number of them

Who understands basic English, but needs coaching in the art of operating a lift? It remains unclear

Just in case you failed to notice, this is a region in which sand is present, and it has the sign to prove it

The question is, what is it about this particular fence that requires us to exercise caution?

It is strange here that the very first thing you see upon removing a battery is a statement to inform you that you have just removed a battery

This sign, spotted in Florida, is so effective that even the local alligators take heed of it