Maryland falls to Ohio State, misses chance to clinch Big Ten regular season title

The Maryland women’s basketball team has been unbeatable in the Big Ten since joining the conference three years ago, save for one notable exception: Ohio State. With an opportunity to secure a third straight Big Ten regular season championship, the second-ranked Terrapins again failed to solve their nemesis Monday night in a 98-87 loss to the No. 12 Buckeyes at Value City Arena. Maryland ( 26-2, 14-1 Big Ten ) dropped its third in a row to Ohio State to fall into a first-place tie in the conference with the Buckeyes, who own the tiebreaker with one regular season game left for both schools. The Terrapins are 48-0 against the rest of the Big Ten, including two conference tournament titles, and 2-3 against Ohio State (24-5, 14-1) over the past three seasons. “I thought Ohio State was sensational,” Maryland Coach Brenda Frese said after the Terrapins gave up their most points in a game this season. “It’s the best I’ve seen them, when you talk about shooting the ball.” The Buckeyes shot 63 percent, the highest percentage Maryland has surrendered this season, and made 10 of 18 three-pointers (56 percent) to gain the inside track on the Big Ten regular season title. Maryland still could win the championship if it beats Minnesota in College Park on Sunday and Ohio State loses at Rutgers, which has three conference wins. Otherwise, the Buckeyes will lock up the No. 1 seed in the Big Ten tournament that begins March 1 in Indianapolis. Maryland can be no worse than the No. 2 seed and is assured of a double-bye.   Senior guard Shatori Walker-Kimbrough led Maryland with 29 points and added five rebounds, five assists and three steals Monday in front of an announced senior night crowd of 6,505. She became the fifth player in program history to reach 2,000 career points. Senior center Brionna Jones added 21 points and nine rebounds in Maryland’s first loss since Dec. 29, when the Terrapins fell, 87-81, to top-ranked Connecticut in College Park. Jones had been among the leading contenders for the Big Ten player of the year award entering the game, but Kelsey Mitchell’s 31 points for Ohio State likely positioned the junior guard as the front-runner for the honor. The conference scoring leader made 11 of 18 shots overall and had 15 points in the first quarter when the Buckeyes shot 78 percent and made 5 of 6 three-pointers. “Coach has been challenging us day in and day out, so we’ve just got to keep getting better,” Walker-Kimbrough said. “Continue to trust each other on defense, continue to trust the help side, continue to get better on team defense.” In a game it led for only 67 seconds and trailed by 16 late in the third quarter, Maryland charged back to trail by two, courtesy of a 14-0 flurry to close the third. Maryland made it 80-76 with 5:09 left in the fourth quarter when freshman guard Kaila Charles went 1 for 2 from the free throw line, but Ohio State countered with three straight baskets and never led by fewer than six the rest of the way. The Buckeyes were 10 for 16 on foul shots over the final 1:59 to secure their 10th consecutive triumph. Destiny Slocum’s three-pointer triggered the run that gave Maryland hope late in the third, and Walker-Kimbrough soon after converted a conventional three-point play. Thirty seconds later, Slocum added another three-pointer, leading Ohio State Coach Kevin McGuff to call a timeout with 1:54 to play in the quarter. Junior guard Kristen Confroy then collected a pass from Slocum out of the stoppage and sank a three-pointer. The Buckeyes committed a turnover, and Walker-Kimbrough’s driving layup whittled the deficit to 68-66, the closest Maryland had come since the first quarter. “I don’t think it’s anything specific other than we’ve played some of our best games since I’ve been here against Maryland,” McGuff, in his fourth season in Columbus, said when asked why this matchup suits his team. “I think our kids, they get up for a big game and they rise to the challenge.” Maryland had trailed 49-40 at halftime, clawing back after the Buckeyes led by 15 after redshirt junior Linnae Harper’s jumper to start the second quarter. Ohio State had scored 35 points in the first 10 minutes on 14-for-18 shooting. “I think it is big motivation. I mean, coming off a loss you can always get better and grow from it,” said Slocum, who had 15 points and four assists but committed five turnovers after missing Wednesday’s 89-40 win against Wisconsin with an illness. “I think that’s what we’ll do with this one.”

The Maryland women’s basketball team has been unbeatable in the Big Ten since joining the conference three years ago, save for one notable exception: Ohio State.

With an opportunity to secure a third straight Big Ten regular season championship, the second-ranked Terrapins again failed to solve their nemesis Monday night in a 98-87 loss to the No. 12 Buckeyes at Value City Arena.

Maryland (26-2, 14-1 Big Ten) dropped its third in a row to Ohio State to fall into a first-place tie in the conference with the Buckeyes, who own the tiebreaker with one regular season game left for both schools. The Terrapins are 48-0 against the rest of the Big Ten, including two conference tournament titles, and 2-3 against Ohio State (24-5, 14-1) over the past three seasons.

“I thought Ohio State was sensational,” Maryland Coach Brenda Frese said after the Terrapins gave up their most points in a game this season. “It’s the best I’ve seen them, when you talk about shooting the ball.”

The Buckeyes shot 63 percent, the highest percentage Maryland has surrendered this season, and made 10 of 18 three-pointers (56 percent) to gain the inside track on the Big Ten regular season title. Maryland still could win the championship if it beats Minnesota in College Park on Sunday and Ohio State loses at Rutgers, which has three conference wins.

Otherwise, the Buckeyes will lock up the No. 1 seed in the Big Ten tournament that begins March 1 in Indianapolis. Maryland can be no worse than the No. 2 seed and is assured of a double-bye.

[D.C. Sports Bog: Winless Terps shock nation’s top softball team]

Senior guard Shatori Walker-Kimbrough led Maryland with 29 points and added five rebounds, five assists and three steals Monday in front of an announced senior night crowd of 6,505. She became the fifth player in program history to reach 2,000 career points. Senior center Brionna Jones added 21 points and nine rebounds in Maryland’s first loss since Dec. 29, when the Terrapins fell, 87-81, to top-ranked Connecticut in College Park.

Jones had been among the leading contenders for the Big Ten player of the year award entering the game, but Kelsey Mitchell’s 31 points for Ohio State likely positioned the junior guard as the front-runner for the honor. The conference scoring leader made 11 of 18 shots overall and had 15 points in the first quarter when the Buckeyes shot 78 percent and made 5 of 6 three-pointers.

“Coach has been challenging us day in and day out, so we’ve just got to keep getting better,” Walker-Kimbrough said. “Continue to trust each other on defense, continue to trust the help side, continue to get better on team defense.”

In a game it led for only 67 seconds and trailed by 16 late in the third quarter, Maryland charged back to trail by two, courtesy of a 14-0 flurry to close the third.

Maryland made it 80-76 with 5:09 left in the fourth quarter when freshman guard Kaila Charles went 1 for 2 from the free throw line, but Ohio State countered with three straight baskets and never led by fewer than six the rest of the way.

The Buckeyes were 10 for 16 on foul shots over the final 1:59 to secure their 10th consecutive triumph.

Destiny Slocum’s three-pointer triggered the run that gave Maryland hope late in the third, and Walker-Kimbrough soon after converted a conventional three-point play. Thirty seconds later, Slocum added another three-pointer, leading Ohio State Coach Kevin McGuff to call a timeout with 1:54 to play in the quarter.

Junior guard Kristen Confroy then collected a pass from Slocum out of the stoppage and sank a three-pointer. The Buckeyes committed a turnover, and Walker-Kimbrough’s driving layup whittled the deficit to 68-66, the closest Maryland had come since the first quarter.

“I don’t think it’s anything specific other than we’ve played some of our best games since I’ve been here against Maryland,” McGuff, in his fourth season in Columbus, said when asked why this matchup suits his team. “I think our kids, they get up for a big game and they rise to the challenge.”

Maryland had trailed 49-40 at halftime, clawing back after the Buckeyes led by 15 after redshirt junior Linnae Harper’s jumper to start the second quarter. Ohio State had scored 35 points in the first 10 minutes on 14-for-18 shooting.

“I think it is big motivation. I mean, coming off a loss you can always get better and grow from it,” said Slocum, who had 15 points and four assists but committed five turnovers after missing Wednesday’s 89-40 win against Wisconsin with an illness. “I think that’s what we’ll do with this one.”