Making Financial Goals Reality, With The Help Of Trusted Partners
Making Financial Goals Reality, With The Help Of Trusted Partners
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Katheryn Thayer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Vanessa and Matt Pestritto with their daughter. Credit: Ben Lau Follow me on Twitter @KATontap    Trending on {{channel_name}}

As the cofounder of Lattice Ventures, Vanessa Pestritto invests in and helps scale startups. But back when she was 25, with student debts hanging over her head, she had some real financial anxiety.

Her first step towards getting her finances in shape was learning to talk to her boyfriend — now husband — about it. “At first it is very uncomfortable ... it's awkward,” she says. But soon she was making budgets and prioritizing her debts, paying off the highest-interest one within a year. “I didn't completely stop spending money but I just went cheap for like a year. I actually ended up coming out with a big savings afterward because I was so scrappy.”

Being able to talk to people she respected at work helped, too. She was at New York Angels at the time, connecting early-stage investors to startups. It was there she realized even very successful, financially savvy people have dealt with personal finance challenges. “I remember talking to a few of the investors about it who I'd befriended by then, and they were great because they were like ‘Oh my God! I paid my loans forever.’” She explains, “No one in my family went to a bigger school that was so expensive. No one in my family had like a career in the private sector. It was just all new territory and that's what made it very intimidating.”

A little later, when she started thinking about having kids, the financial anxiety resurfaced. Pestritto started worrying about the cost, but, again, a conversation helped. Her husband opened up a spreadsheet. They compiled a simple overview of their after-tax incomes and monthly expenses. From that, they could see a kid would be “in-budget” in the next few years.

So they had their first child. Soon after, Pestritto cofounded Lattice Ventures and her husband joined the founding team of Parachute Health. When they started thinking about another kid, they had to balance not just their budgets, but also their startup schedules. Pestritto and her cofounder, Brittany Laughlin, were planning to raise a second fund. Pestritto mapped out the timeline of her pregnancy and her business development to figure out when would be best to get pregnant.

She reports the whole process, at home and at work, went smoothly. “The thing with pregnancy and becoming a mother is that it's so different for everyone, as far as how they want to experience it in their life,” Pestritto says. “People feel like you should stop or slow down. That's something that is a choice. You don't have to do it unless you want to do it.” For her, it was a matter of talking through her personal and professional goals with her husband and her cofounder.

Follow me on Twitter @KATontap