Trump to visit African American History Museum
Trump to visit African American History Museum 
Shares                President Donald Trump is set to visit the Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History and Culture Tuesday. The president was initially scheduled to visit the museum in observance of Martin Luther King Day but ABC News later learned that the visit was removed from his calendar due to scheduling issues and was not fully planned out.     Last week, following the joint Trump-Netanyahu press conference at the White House, First Lady Melania Trump hosted Sara Netanyahu on a visit to the museum. The wives were accompanied by museum director Lonnie Bunch and Smithsonian Secretary David Skorton.  After husbands' joint news conference, Melania Trump and Sara Netanyahu visited the National African American Museum https://t.co/ps01OZmFmz  pic.twitter.com/oPzduBpsR1  "Mrs Sara Netanyahu met at the White House with @FLOTUS Melania Trump, who surprised her with a visit to @NMAAHC," read a tweet from Netanyahu's office, along with a trio of photos of the leaders' wives at the museum and the White House.  Mrs Sara Netanyahu met at the White House with @FLOTUS Melania Trump, who surprised her with a visit to @NMAAHC  pic.twitter.com/c607mj9SBa  The first lady reportedly said in a statement afterwards of the visit, "As we remember, with deep humility and reverence, the historic plight of slavery which the Jewish and African-American people have known all too well, we rededicate ourselves to those powerful words that both our nations hold dear: "NEVER AGAIN!" Shares                  Trump to visit African American History Museum   The Note: McMaster Joins the Ranks of Trump’s Administration   Everything you need to know about Trump's new national security adviser   VP Pence 'disappointed' Flynn misled him on Russia   Breitbart's Milo Yiannopoulos disinvited to speak at CPAC   Gen. McMaster to remain active duty as national security adviser   Revised immigration order expected to renew ban on 7 Muslim-majority countries   Trump weighs options for next national security adviser   COLUMN: Think Mount Rushmore to unite the country, build respect   Senate committee pursues Russia investigation   Trump's remarks about Sweden 'not referring to a specific incident,' White House says   Sen. Rand Paul on Trump: 'Not everyone is perfect'   Global stocks mixed after Wall Street's long weekend   Uber taps Eric Holder to probe harassment claims   Pinpointing cause of death for NK's Kim Jong Nam may be hard

President Donald Trump is set to visit the Smithsonian's National Museum of African American History and Culture Tuesday.

The president was initially scheduled to visit the museum in observance of Martin Luther King Day but ABC News later learned that the visit was removed from his calendar due to scheduling issues and was not fully planned out.

Last week, following the joint Trump-Netanyahu press conference at the White House, First Lady Melania Trump hosted Sara Netanyahu on a visit to the museum.

The wives were accompanied by museum director Lonnie Bunch and Smithsonian Secretary David Skorton.

After husbands' joint news conference, Melania Trump and Sara Netanyahu visited the National African American Museum https://t.co/ps01OZmFmz pic.twitter.com/oPzduBpsR1 — ABC News (@ABC) February 16, 2017

"Mrs Sara Netanyahu met at the White House with @FLOTUS Melania Trump, who surprised her with a visit to @NMAAHC," read a tweet from Netanyahu's office, along with a trio of photos of the leaders' wives at the museum and the White House.

Mrs Sara Netanyahu met at the White House with @FLOTUS Melania Trump, who surprised her with a visit to @NMAAHC pic.twitter.com/c607mj9SBa — PM of Israel (@IsraeliPM) February 15, 2017

The first lady reportedly said in a statement afterwards of the visit, "As we remember, with deep humility and reverence, the historic plight of slavery which the Jewish and African-American people have known all too well, we rededicate ourselves to those powerful words that both our nations hold dear: "NEVER AGAIN!"