This Guy Offered A Quirky Valentine's Day Date On Facebook And Got 2,000 Applications For It!
This Guy Offered A Quirky Valentine's Day Date On Facebook And Got 2,000 Applications For It!
This Guy Offered A Quirky Valentine's Day Date On Facebook And Got 2,000 Applications For It! Valentine's Day is not for everyone. Every year, around the 14th of February, we all see love sprouting from every nook and corner of this world. But what about the hapless people who're single? While a lot of us have despised the idea of spending the Valentine's exclusively with lovers, it goes without saying it is more conditional than intended. But hey, that shouldn't stop you from doing anything. Meet Shakul Gupta, the "entrepreneur with an Audi A4" who fetched more than 2,000 applications for his valentine proposal. This lad from Gurgaon took it to Facebook, to ask girls out for a Valentine date in the most unconventional way. 'Who want to be my Valentine?' he wrote. He offered dinner at Oberoi, Gurgaon. iPhone 7 ( brand new of the girl's choice) and memorable moments. Within minutes, the proposal went viral with more than 16,000 likes, 500 shares and 2,000 applications. Two days after the Valentine's Day he announced the results with 5 lucky names.  Good on you man!

Valentine's Day is not for everyone. Every year, around the 14th of February, we all see love sprouting from every nook and corner of this world.

But what about the hapless people who're single?

While a lot of us have despised the idea of spending the Valentine's exclusively with lovers, it goes without saying it is more conditional than intended. But hey, that shouldn't stop you from doing anything.

Meet Shakul Gupta, the "entrepreneur with an Audi A4" who fetched more than 2,000 applications for his valentine proposal.

Facebook

This lad from Gurgaon took it to Facebook, to ask girls out for a Valentine date in the most unconventional way.

'Who want to be my Valentine?' he wrote.

He offered dinner at Oberoi, Gurgaon. iPhone 7 ( brand new of the girl's choice) and memorable moments.

Within minutes, the proposal went viral with more than 16,000 likes, 500 shares and 2,000 applications.

Two days after the Valentine's Day he announced the results with 5 lucky names.

He further shared the bill for the amount of money that the spent at the Oberoi and users cannot seem to accept that a man actually pulled this off.

Facebook

Good on you man!

Don't Miss 46.8 K SHARES 48 K SHARES 28.2 K SHARES