Mel B Celebrates Her Final 'Chicago' Broadway Show With a Spice Girls Shout-Out: Watch
Mel B Celebrates Her Final 'Chicago' Broadway Show With a Spice Girls Shout-Out: Watch
Mel B Celebrates Her Final 'Chicago' Broadway Show With a Spice Girls Shout-Out: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  As Mel B closed out her run as Roxie Hart in Broadway'sÂ Â on Sunday (Feb. 19),Â she spiced up the stage by paying tribute to another role she once played.Â During a solo number in her final night in the show, the former Spice Girl couldn't help channeling Scary Spice by singing a little "Wannabe." "I'm gonna tell you something..." Mel B begins, then busting intoÂ "so here's the story from A to Z." Not surprisingly, the crowd went crazy for the throwback moment.  Here is a snippet of me last night doing my last show In @chicagomusical playing Roxie heart breaking character busting out some spice power haha #nyc-- #broadwaybaby A post shared by Mel B (@officialmelb) on Mel B had the Spice Girl vibes before even taking the stage for her finalÂ Â performance, as she shared a picture from her Scary Spice days with the caption "Me walking off broadway last night at my last show." Even after the performance, her ode to Scary continued withÂ her daughter Madison, who clearly wants to take after her mom. She won't take them off A post shared by Mel B (@officialmelb) on Mel B'sÂ run lasted from Dec. 28 through Feb. 19 at New York's Ambassador Theater. In addition to her Spice Girls shout-out, she gave a shout-out to herself on TwitterÂ for not missing a singleÂ performance during her eight-week Broadway stint.  Whether Mel B will continue to appear in Broadway shows is unclear, but after her Scary Spice tease, she likely has fans hoping for a Spice Girls musical --Â wouldn't that be a way to celebrate their 20th anniversary?Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Mel B returns to Broadway's "Chicago" at Sardi's on Dec. 21, 2016 in New York City.

As Mel B closed out her run as Roxie Hart in Broadway'sÂ ChicagoÂ on Sunday (Feb. 19),Â she spiced up the stage by paying tribute to another role she once played.Â During a solo number in her final night in the show, the former Spice Girl couldn't help channeling Scary Spice by singing a little "Wannabe."

"I'm gonna tell you something..." Mel B begins, then busting intoÂ "so here's the story from A to Z." Not surprisingly, the crowd went crazy for the throwback moment.

Â Here is a snippet of me last night doing my last show In @chicagomusical playing Roxie heart breaking character busting out some spice power haha #nyc-- #broadwaybaby A post shared by Mel B (@officialmelb) on Feb 20, 2017 at 10:10am PST



Mel B had the Spice Girl vibes before even taking the stage for her finalÂ ChicagoÂ performance, as she shared a picture from her Scary Spice days with the caption "Me walking off broadway last night at my last show." Even after the performance, her ode to Scary continued withÂ her daughter Madison, who clearly wants to take after her mom.

Â She won't take them off A post shared by Mel B (@officialmelb) on Feb 20, 2017 at 1:28pm PST



Mel B'sÂ ChicagoÂ run lasted from Dec. 28 through Feb. 19 at New York's Ambassador Theater. In addition to her Spice Girls shout-out, she gave a shout-out to herself on TwitterÂ for not missing a singleÂ performance during her eight-week Broadway stint.

Whether Mel B will continue to appear in Broadway shows is unclear, but after her Scary Spice tease, she likely has fans hoping for a Spice Girls musical --Â wouldn't that be a way to celebrate their 20th anniversary?Â