A man has invented the most ridiculous way for women to deal with their periods
A man has invented the most ridiculous way for women to deal with their periods
Dopps has invented Mensez, an adhesive “lipstick” that is applied to a woman’s lady parts to block their menstruation. And it comes undone when the woman urinates. Yes, this man was clearly not at school when his class was taught about the female anatomy. In a post on Facebook, Mensez claims: Have you ever woke up with your lips stuck together? It didn’t hurt and it was kinda fun. All you had to do was to wet your lips from the inside with saliva and they became unstuck. This is the principle behind Mensez. Mensez is a natural combination of amino acids and oil in a lipstick applicator that is applied to the lips downunder during the period. It causes them to stick together, strong enough to prevent leakage, that is until the user urinates. The urine instantly unsticks the labia and allows everything to wash out into the toilet.   'Simply wipe, and reapply,' it advises. In an even more bizarre turn of events, his product is patented . Unfortunately for Dopps, he managed to alienate and insult his with another Facebook post, where he wrote: Yes, I am a man and you as a woman, should have come up with a better solution than diapers and plugs, but you didn’t. Reason being women are focused on and distracted by your period 25 per cent of the time, making them far less productive than they could be. He goes on to say that periods “play with [women’s] heads,” and that periods can be “gross, crusty, smelly and incredibly awful”. People have had some great reactions:    Mensez says its Facebook was hacked by "prankster ". No, the product isn't a joke. That bit's definitely real.                    Keep scrolling for next article

Daniel Dopps is a chiropractor from Kansas and he has just had one of the most ridiculous ideas ever known to humankind.

Ever.

Dopps has invented Mensez, an adhesive “lipstick” that is applied to a woman’s lady parts to block their menstruation. And it comes undone when the woman urinates.

Yes, this man was clearly not at school when his class was taught about the female anatomy.

In a post on Facebook, Mensez claims:

Have you ever woke up with your lips stuck together? It didn’t hurt and it was kinda fun. All you had to do was to wet your lips from the inside with saliva and they became unstuck. This is the principle behind Mensez. Mensez is a natural combination of amino acids and oil in a lipstick applicator that is applied to the lips downunder during the period. It causes them to stick together, strong enough to prevent leakage, that is until the user urinates. The urine instantly unsticks the labia and allows everything to wash out into the toilet.

'Simply wipe, and reapply,' it advises.

So.

Many.

Questions.

In an even more bizarre turn of events, his product is patented.

Unfortunately for Dopps, he managed to alienate and insult his entire customer base with another Facebook post, where he wrote:

Yes, I am a man and you as a woman, should have come up with a better solution than diapers and plugs, but you didn’t. Reason being women are focused on and distracted by your period 25 per cent of the time, making them far less productive than they could be.

He goes on to say that periods “play with [women’s] heads,” and that periods can be “gross, crusty, smelly and incredibly awful”.

People have had some great reactions:













Mensez says its Facebook was hacked by "prankster".

No, the product isn't a joke. That bit's definitely real.

More: This is what it would be like if men had periods

More: 10 amazing cartoons that show the reality of periods