West Virginia’s Bob Huggins has scary moment when defibrillator goes off during game

During a timeout just before halftime of West Virginia’s game against Texas on Monday night, Mountaineers Coach Bob Huggins fell to his knees and clutched his chest. It was a frightening scene, especially considering Huggins’s history of heart problems. West Virginia coach Bob Huggins needed help off the floor and medical attention late in the first half against Texas. He appears to be ok. pic.twitter.com/qSOd4nMgxj — SI College Hoops (@si_ncaabb) February 21, 2017 Huggins, 63, made it back to the West Virginia bench and was in place for the second half. After the game, he said the defibrillator he had installed after his 2002 heart attack simply went off. “It comes out of nowhere,” Huggins said, per the AP . “Well, I guess I got a little lightheaded, which I do when I stand up too fast sometimes. A lot of that’s old age, and a lot of it is some of the medication I take.” “Then, I mean honestly, the defibrillator went off,” Huggins added. “But, that’s the second time it’s been going off. It goes off and what it is, it just shocks your heart back into rhythm.” Huggins has atrial fibrillation, or an irregular heartbeat. The defibrillator shocks the heart into beating regularly again when it senses that something is amiss. His players knew everything was all right when, during the episode, he pointed at one of the referees and joked, “You did this to me.” The 12th-ranked Mountaineers made things as stress-free as possible for their coach, erasing an early 12-2 deficit to win going away, 77-62.



Bob Huggins is okay after collapsing to his knees during Monday night’s game. (Jamie Squire/Getty Images)

During a timeout just before halftime of West Virginia’s game against Texas on Monday night, Mountaineers Coach Bob Huggins fell to his knees and clutched his chest. It was a frightening scene, especially considering Huggins’s history of heart problems.

West Virginia coach Bob Huggins needed help off the floor and medical attention late in the first half against Texas. He appears to be ok. pic.twitter.com/qSOd4nMgxj — SI College Hoops (@si_ncaabb) February 21, 2017

Huggins, 63, made it back to the West Virginia bench and was in place for the second half. After the game, he said the defibrillator he had installed after his 2002 heart attack simply went off.

“It comes out of nowhere,” Huggins said, per the AP. “Well, I guess I got a little lightheaded, which I do when I stand up too fast sometimes. A lot of that’s old age, and a lot of it is some of the medication I take.”

“Then, I mean honestly, the defibrillator went off,” Huggins added. “But, that’s the second time it’s been going off. It goes off and what it is, it just shocks your heart back into rhythm.”

Huggins has atrial fibrillation, or an irregular heartbeat. The defibrillator shocks the heart into beating regularly again when it senses that something is amiss.

His players knew everything was all right when, during the episode, he pointed at one of the referees and joked, “You did this to me.”

“We told him not to yell or anything, and he’s like, ‘Stay in line and don’t let your man drive and I’ll be fine,’ ” Mountaineers forward Elijah Macon said afterward, per the Charleston Gazette-Mail

The 12th-ranked Mountaineers made things as stress-free as possible for their coach, erasing an early 12-2 deficit to win going away, 77-62.