Katy Perry took a selfie in an Infinity Mirror room. Should you do it too?

Yayoi Kusama’s mirror rooms have been wildly popular selfie spots in recent years, and the Hirshhorn exhibit will probably be no exception. However, you may want to think twice before snapping a photo. After all, visitors are given only about 45 seconds in each room, and that time is better spent actually contemplating the art, says The Washington Post’s Lavanya Ramanathan . “I am going to argue for the mindful, ‘be here now’ approach to museum going,” she says. In contrast, Huffington Post art critic Priscilla Frank says that selfies are a perfectly acceptable way to respond to the mirror rooms. “It’s this very physical way to enact what I think is the spirit of the room: dissolving boundaries, proliferating yourself and also sharing yourself,” Frank says. Whether you snap a photo or not, the trippy experience of seeing your face multiplied endlessly among a sea of glowing pumpkins, floating candles or twinkling lights will either reinforce or puncture your ego, or perhaps do both at the same time. It all depends on you. Tickets for the exhibit’s first two weeks have been snapped up , but don’t despair. You can win two tickets from Express — that you can use anytime — by finding polka dots anywhere, taking a photo and posting it on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram with the hashtag . ( Here are the complete rules ). And even if you don’t win, the Hirshhorn will be releasing more free timed tickets every Monday at noon during the exhibit’s run. This exhibit is going to blow up your Instagram feed — and rewrite art history How Yayoi Kusama channels mental illness into art An exhibition of the beloved Kusama with everything but Kusama herself

Katy Perry is one of many celebrities who have snapped selfies in Kusama’s mirror rooms.(Katy Perry/Instagram)

Yayoi Kusama’s mirror rooms have been wildly popular selfie spots in recent years, and the Hirshhorn exhibit will probably be no exception. However, you may want to think twice before snapping a photo. After all, visitors are given only about 45 seconds in each room, and that time is better spent actually contemplating the art, says The Washington Post’s Lavanya Ramanathan. “I am going to argue for the mindful, ‘be here now’ approach to museum going,” she says. In contrast, Huffington Post art critic Priscilla Frank says that selfies are a perfectly acceptable way to respond to the mirror rooms. “It’s this very physical way to enact what I think is the spirit of the room: dissolving boundaries, proliferating yourself and also sharing yourself,” Frank says. Whether you snap a photo or not, the trippy experience of seeing your face multiplied endlessly among a sea of glowing pumpkins, floating candles or twinkling lights will either reinforce or puncture your ego, or perhaps do both at the same time. It all depends on you.

Contest: Win free tickets to the show

Tickets for the exhibit’s first two weeks have been snapped up, but don’t despair. You can win two tickets from Express — that you can use anytime — by finding polka dots anywhere, taking a photo and posting it on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram with the hashtag #expressdots. (Here are the complete rules). And even if you don’t win, the Hirshhorn will be releasing more free timed tickets every Monday at noon during the exhibit’s run.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Independence Avenue and Seventh Street SW; Thu. through May 14, free.

More on ‘Infinity Mirrors’

This exhibit is going to blow up your Instagram feed — and rewrite art history

How Yayoi Kusama channels mental illness into art

An exhibition of the beloved Kusama with everything but Kusama herself