Church's Jesus Statue Beheaded for 2nd Time; Jewish Cemetery Vandalized

Church's Jesus Statue Beheaded for 2nd Time; Jewish Cemetery Vandalized // // A statue of Jesus was beheaded for the second time in two weeks outside an Indiana church. The pastor at the Cottage Avenue Pentecostal Fellowship Church in Indianapolis said the head was re-attached after the first incident, but then removed and stolen on Saturday night or Sunday morning. Pastor Brad Flaskamp told FOX 59 that whoever is responsible would have needed a sledgehammer to inflict the damage, saying he doesn't believe it was done by kids or pranksters. Police said the crime was not caught on surveillance video and they're hoping someone in the community will come forward with information. Meantime, in University City, Missouri, more than 100 headstones were vandalized at a Jewish cemetery. According to FOX 2 , police believe the vandalism at the Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery was committed by a group, not just one person. The St. Louis-area cemetery includes the remains of Holocaust survivors. Gov. Eric Greitens condemned the actions, calling it "a despicable act of what appears to be anti-Semitic vandalism."  The vandalism comes amid rising reports of bomb threats directed at Jewish centers across the country. President Donald Trump's daughter, Ivanka, called for tolerance on Twitter Monday night. America is a nation built on the principle of religious tolerance. We must protect our houses of worship & religious centers. #JCC — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) February 20, 2017 Watch more below.

A statue of Jesus was beheaded for the second time in two weeks outside an Indiana church.

The pastor at the Cottage Avenue Pentecostal Fellowship Church in Indianapolis said the head was re-attached after the first incident, but then removed and stolen on Saturday night or Sunday morning.

Pastor Brad Flaskamp told FOX 59 that whoever is responsible would have needed a sledgehammer to inflict the damage, saying he doesn't believe it was done by kids or pranksters.

Police said the crime was not caught on surveillance video and they're hoping someone in the community will come forward with information.

Meantime, in University City, Missouri, more than 100 headstones were vandalized at a Jewish cemetery.

According to FOX 2, police believe the vandalism at the Chesed Shel Emeth Cemetery was committed by a group, not just one person.

The St. Louis-area cemetery includes the remains of Holocaust survivors.

Gov. Eric Greitens condemned the actions, calling it "a despicable act of what appears to be anti-Semitic vandalism."

The vandalism comes amid rising reports of bomb threats directed at Jewish centers across the country.

President Donald Trump's daughter, Ivanka, called for tolerance on Twitter Monday night.

America is a nation built on the principle of religious tolerance. We must protect our houses of worship & religious centers. #JCC — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) February 20, 2017

Watch more below.

Fox News Channel's Brenda Buttner Passes Away

Moms Raise Concerns About Teaching of Islam at NJ Middle School

'Post-Election Stress Disorder': Vets Take Issue With New Term for Upset Liberals