Brit Awards 2017: When are they? How can I watch? Who is presenting and performing?
Brit Awards 2017: When are they? How can I watch? Who is presenting and performing?
Artists, managers, label bosses and music fans are gearing up for one of the biggest nights for the UK music industry. The Brit Awards take place tomorrow night (22 February) and will feature performances and tributes from the likes of Skepta, Katy Perry and The 1975. Here's everything you need to know ahead of the big night. The Brits take place on Wednesday 22 February at London's O2 Arena. Read more Ed Sheeran is performing at the Brit Awards 2017 Dermot O'Leary and Emma Willis to co-host Brit Awards 2017 The Brit Awards can only be relevant if they honour modern music Ant and Dec have been replaced by X Factor presenter Dermot O'Leary and The Voice presenter Emma Willis. Michael Buble was originally scheduled to host the awards show but had to pull out after his son became ill. Willis said of taking on the role: "Every part of me sends so much love and all the best wishes in the world to Michael and his family at such a difficult time.: O'Leary added: "Michael is such an effortless showman, so those patent shoes will not be easy to fill. But it's an honour to be asked to step in with Emma to host the Brits." Brit Awards 2016: Nominations You can vote via the official Brits website for British Artist Video . Voting for the British Breakthrough Act award is now closed. Ed Sheeran is set to play at the ceremony along with Katy Perry, Little Mix, Bruno Mars, Skepta, The 1975, Robbie Williams, Emeli Sande and Little Mix. Brit Awards 2016 winners               Brit Awards 2016 winners    British Male Solo Artist   James Bay   Getty Images     British Female Solo Artist   Adele   Getty Images     British Group   Coldplay   Getty Images     British Breakthrough Act   Catfish and the Bottlemen   PA     Critics’ Choice   Jack Garratt   PA     British Single   Adele, “Hello”   PA     MasterCard British Album of the Year   Adele, "25"      International Male Solo Artist   Justin Bieber   Getty Images     International Female Solo Artist   Bjork   Getty Images     International Group   Tame Impala   Getty Images     British Producer of the Year   Charlie Andrew (alt-J)   Universal Audio     Global Success Award   Adele   Getty Images  The Brit Awards will be aired on ITV at 7.30pm. You can follow live updates on social media via the award ceremony's official Twitter handle , Facebook page and YouTube channel. If you're not in the UK you can watch it livestreamed on YouTube with presenter/vlogger Caspar Lee. More about: BRIT Awards Skepta David Bowie Emma Willis Dermot O'Leary stormzy Michael Kiwanuka Little Mix Ed Sheeran Katy Perry Comments

Artists, managers, label bosses and music fans are gearing up for one of the biggest nights for the UK music industry.

The Brit Awards take place tomorrow night (22 February) and will feature performances and tributes from the likes of Skepta, Katy Perry and The 1975.

Here's everything you need to know ahead of the big night.

When are the Brit Awards?

The Brits take place on Wednesday 22 February at London's O2 Arena.

Who is presenting?

Ant and Dec have been replaced by X Factor presenter Dermot O'Leary and The Voice presenter Emma Willis.

Michael Buble was originally scheduled to host the awards show but had to pull out after his son became ill.

Willis said of taking on the role: "Every part of me sends so much love and all the best wishes in the world to Michael and his family at such a difficult time.:

O'Leary added: "Michael is such an effortless showman, so those patent shoes will not be easy to fill. But it's an honour to be asked to step in with Emma to host the Brits."

Brit Awards 2016: Nominations



How do I vote for Brit Award nominees?

You can vote via the official Brits website for British Artist Video. Voting for the British Breakthrough Act award is now closed.

Who is performing?

Ed Sheeran is set to play at the ceremony along with Katy Perry, Little Mix, Bruno Mars, Skepta, The 1975, Robbie Williams, Emeli Sande and Little Mix.

Brit Awards 2016 winners







12 show all Brit Awards 2016 winners





















1/12 British Male Solo Artist James Bay Getty Images

2/12 British Female Solo Artist Adele Getty Images

3/12 British Group Coldplay Getty Images

4/12 British Breakthrough Act Catfish and the Bottlemen PA

5/12 Critics’ Choice Jack Garratt PA

6/12 British Single Adele, “Hello” PA

7/12 MasterCard British Album of the Year Adele, "25"

8/12 International Male Solo Artist Justin Bieber Getty Images

9/12 International Female Solo Artist Bjork Getty Images

10/12 International Group Tame Impala Getty Images

11/12 British Producer of the Year Charlie Andrew (alt-J) Universal Audio

12/12 Global Success Award Adele Getty Images

How can I watch?

The Brit Awards will be aired on ITV at 7.30pm.

You can follow live updates on social media via the award ceremony's official Twitter handle, Facebook page and YouTube channel.

If you're not in the UK you can watch it livestreamed on YouTube with presenter/vlogger Caspar Lee.

Check out the full list of awards nominees here.