Cops help 10-year-old girl with homework after she messaged them on Facebook
Cops help 10-year-old girl with homework after she messaged them on Facebook
A fifth-grader stuck on a math problem went to go to an unusual place for  help when she decided to message the cops on Facebook. The best part is that the cops actually responded. Molly Draper shared a few screenshots of her Facebook Messenger app on Friday which showed an adorable interaction between her 10-year-old daughter Lena and the Marion, Ohio, Police Department. According to the post, Lena was a bit stuck on a math problem, so she messaged the cops for a bit of help. SEE ALSO: Third grader has no time for your silly homework nonsense After asking for assistance, Marion Police Dept. Lt. B.J. Gruber, who is in charge of running the page, responded to the request with, “Ok with what?” reports . Lena told Gruber the problem that she needed help with, and he responded with an explanation. Image: Molly Draper Lena later followed it up with a more difficult problem, which Gruber also explained. Unfortunately, he was a little bit wrong with his order of operations on this one, but hey, he tried. Image: Molly Draper Draper had no idea Lena was going to message the cops until after the interaction started. Draper says that she had a fun interaction with the cops on Facebook last summer, which is where Lena dreamed up the idea. “I was happy, but not surprised that they responded so quickly,” Draper told . “They are wonderful with their communication with the community.” BONUS: A bike helmet with turn signal lights will make rides a whole lot safer

A fifth-grader stuck on a math problem went to go to an unusual place for help when she decided to message the cops on Facebook.

The best part is that the cops actually responded.

Molly Draper shared a few screenshots of her Facebook Messenger app on Friday which showed an adorable interaction between her 10-year-old daughter Lena and the Marion, Ohio, Police Department. According to the post, Lena was a bit stuck on a math problem, so she messaged the cops for a bit of help.

SEE ALSO: Third grader has no time for your silly homework nonsense

After asking for assistance, Marion Police Dept. Lt. B.J. Gruber, who is in charge of running the page, responded to the request with, “Ok with what?” CBS News reports.

Lena told Gruber the problem that she needed help with, and he responded with an explanation.

Lena later followed it up with a more difficult problem, which Gruber also explained. Unfortunately, he was a little bit wrong with his order of operations on this one, but hey, he tried.

Draper had no idea Lena was going to message the cops until after the interaction started. Draper says that she had a fun interaction with the cops on Facebook last summer, which is where Lena dreamed up the idea.

“I was happy, but not surprised that they responded so quickly,” Draper told CBS News. “They are wonderful with their communication with the community.”