Magic Johnson's Old Tweets Gain New Life After Lakers Name Him Executive
Magic Johnson's Old Tweets Gain New Life After Lakers Name Him Executive
The Los Angeles Lakers announced a major front-office shake-up Tuesday when they named  Magic Johnson president of basketball operations. The slumping organization is also parting ways with general manager Mitch Kupchak and executive vice president of basketball operations Jim Buss. Rather than discuss Magic's credentials for running an NBA franchise, let's take the opportunity to celebrate and chastise his mystical social media history by digging up his old posts. The former Lakers legend has a knack for posting the blandest of opinions: The Bucks just acquired the next Jason Kidd in Michael Carter-Williams. OKC vs. Golden State series will have it all...especially star power w/ Warriors' Curry, Green &amp; Thompson &amp; OKC's Durant, Westbrook &amp; Ibaka! I love the NBA Playoffs! Laker fans all over should be happy with the No. 2 pick because the Lakers will get another really good player. Laker Nation: The Lakers should call LeBron James agent. We know he's going stay in CLE but they should go after him just in case he leaves. Kupchak and Buss probably didn't even think to pursue those James and Durant fellows. Also, who could forget Johnson's succinct breakdown of 2016's MVP candidates? Laker Nation: I would love to see Kevin Durant in the Purple &amp; Gold! Kevin Durant is playing great for the Warriors and should be in the MVP conversation averaging 31pts, 10reb and 4ast. Also probably in the early MVP conversation is James Harden, Chris Paul, Blake Griffin, Damian Lillard, DeMarcus Cousins, Anthony Davis... Then again, that's better than the more damning alternative of his questionable player evaluations: ...Carmelo Anthony, Paul George, Hassan Whiteside, Jimmy Butler and Andre Drummond. Great move by Phil Jackson, James Dolan &amp; Steve Mills, hiring Derek Fisher as the new head coach for the New York Knicks! I'm impressed w/ the Chicago Bulls starting Rondo, Butler, Wade &amp; MCW off the bench they have the 3rd best group of guards in the league... It appears he is at least admitting to one of his errors in judgment: The Dallas Mavericks' trade for Rajon Rondo puts them in position to be a contender in the Western Conference. [Twitter] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Emma McIntyre/Getty Images

The Los Angeles Lakers announced a major front-office shake-up Tuesday when they named Magic Johnson president of basketball operations. The slumping organization is also parting ways with general manager Mitch Kupchak and executive vice president of basketball operations Jim Buss.

Rather than discuss Magic's credentials for running an NBA franchise, let's take the opportunity to celebrate and chastise his mystical social media history by digging up his old posts.

The former Lakers legend has a knack for posting the blandest of opinions:

Kupchak and Buss probably didn't even think to pursue those James and Durant fellows.

Also, who could forget Johnson's succinct breakdown of 2016's MVP candidates?

Then again, that's better than the more damning alternative of his questionable player evaluations:

It appears he is at least admitting to one of his errors in judgment:





[Twitter]