Jordan Peele's Barack Obama Impression Is Now Drunk And Angry At Donald Trump
Jordan Peele's Obama Impression Is Now Drunk And Angry At Trump
Throughout the years Barack Obama was in power, Jordan Peele’s impression of the president emerged as the most recognizable, only rivaled by Jay Pharoah’s take on “Saturday Night Live.” During the comedian’s appearance on Seth Meyer’s “Late Night” Monday to promote his well-reviewed new film “Get Out,” the host told Peele he thought the Obama impression “was the gold standard.” Peele’s take on the president from his Comedy Central show, “Key & Peele,” would portray Obama as extremely even-keeled and calm. During these sketches his comedic partner, Keegan-Michael Key, would play an “anger translator,” expressing the frustration Obama presumably decided he couldn’t. The popularity of the recurring impressions became so popular that the real Obama invited Key to be his anger translator for part of his speech at the 2015 White House Correspondents’ Dinner . With this context, Meyers asked Peele to revive his impression and asked what Obama is thinking about the United States at the moment. Although he didn’t outright mention his name, Meyers heavily implied he wanted Peele’s Obama to respond to the fact that Donald Trump now runs the country. At least according to this new impression, Obama no longer needs an anger translator ― the post-Trump Obama is willing to get mad all by himself. Peele set up his take with a mention that Obama has been on vacation and a guess that the former president is now holding a glass of whiskey in his hands while watching TV. “This is some messed up stuff here,” Peele’s drunk Obama yelled out in response to watching news on TV. Then while swirling the imaginary whiskey glass, Peele slurred in his Obama-voice, “Michelle, top her off. Michelle, top her off.” Peele-as-Obama reacted again to the TV and said with clear frustration, “Well, you done done did it now, America!” Before wrapping up the take, Peele referenced Trump’s past insistence that Obama was not born in the United States. In the impression, Peele’s Obama repeatedly asks Michelle where he is from, before stating himself that the answer is Hawaii. His last line as Obama? “Well, mele kalikimaka mother f—,” making sure to stop himself short. ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

Throughout the years Barack Obama was in power, Jordan Peele’s impression of the president emerged as the most recognizable, only rivaled by Jay Pharoah’s take on “Saturday Night Live.”

During the comedian’s appearance on Seth Meyer’s “Late Night” Monday to promote his well-reviewed new film “Get Out,” the host told Peele he thought the Obama impression “was the gold standard.”

Peele’s take on the president from his Comedy Central show, “Key & Peele,” would portray Obama as extremely even-keeled and calm. During these sketches his comedic partner, Keegan-Michael Key, would play an “anger translator,” expressing the frustration Obama presumably decided he couldn’t.

The popularity of the recurring impressions became so popular that the real Obama invited Key to be his anger translator for part of his speech at the 2015 White House Correspondents’ Dinner.

With this context, Meyers asked Peele to revive his impression and asked what Obama is thinking about the United States at the moment. Although he didn’t outright mention his name, Meyers heavily implied he wanted Peele’s Obama to respond to the fact that Donald Trump now runs the country.

At least according to this new impression, Obama no longer needs an anger translator ― the post-Trump Obama is willing to get mad all by himself.

Peele set up his take with a mention that Obama has been on vacation and a guess that the former president is now holding a glass of whiskey in his hands while watching TV.

“This is some messed up stuff here,” Peele’s drunk Obama yelled out in response to watching news on TV. Then while swirling the imaginary whiskey glass, Peele slurred in his Obama-voice, “Michelle, top her off. Michelle, top her off.”

Peele-as-Obama reacted again to the TV and said with clear frustration, “Well, you done done did it now, America!”

Before wrapping up the take, Peele referenced Trump’s past insistence that Obama was not born in the United States. In the impression, Peele’s Obama repeatedly asks Michelle where he is from, before stating himself that the answer is Hawaii.