The 10 Least Stressful Jobs In 2017
The 10 Least Stressful Jobs In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jeff Kauflin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The 10 Least Stressful Jobs In 2017 Diagnostic medical sonographer ranked first on CareerCast's list of the least stressful jobs. Photo credit: Shutterstock.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Stress plays a big role in our daily lives, and according to careers website CareerCast, some jobs create more anxiety than others. Last week my colleague Karsten Strauss covered the most stressful jobs, and this week I’m writing about the least stressful.

CareerCast evaluated 200 professions and rated them on 11 measures of stress, such as the amount of travel required, the growth potential of the industry and job, and the physical demands of the role. The report isn’t a survey—CareerCast relies largely on data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics to score every position on each metric, and then rolls that up into an overall stress score. More methodology details are available here.

To see the 10 least stressful jobs and their median salaries, view the gallery below.

Although these jobs are rated as low-stress based on CareerCast’s approach, by no means are they easy or unimportant. Some, such as audiologist and tenured professor, require a Ph.D. Others, like medical and pharmacy technicians, provide critical support in the process of saving lives.

CareerCast’s stress ratings are averages, and exceptions always arise. For instance, having a difficult manager or extremely demanding clients can make any job unpleasant. Also, much stress is self-induced and best managed by means other than switching jobs, like limiting the number of tasks you take on. But we wanted to publish this list because we think it’s informative and thought-provoking. Two years ago, my colleague Susan Adams published many interesting reader responses to an earlier version of this annual list.

Diagnostic medical sonographer was rated as the least stressful job. The position involves using medical imaging equipment like ultrasound machines. Medical sonographers assist physicians in conducting and interpreting these tests, and to become one, you’ll need to take an accreditation program that lasts between one and four years. Median pay in 2015 was $63,630.

The second-least stressful job was compliance officer, a role with a median salary of $65,640 that requires making sure your colleagues abide by laws and regulations. A compliance officer at a bank might monitor traders to check if they’re following insider trading regulations.

Operations research analyst ranked eighth, with median income of $78,630. Using mathematical and analytical methods, operations analysts help organizations solve complex problems.

Follow me on Twitter @JeffKauflin or email me at jkauflin[at]forbes[dot]com.