Running of the bull: NYPD wrangles bull after chase
Runaway bull that led NYPD on chase dies after being tranquilized 
Shares               A bull that led police on a wild goose chase through New York City earlier today has died just hours after it was captured, according to a New York Police Department source briefed on the incident. The bull was originally spotted roaming the streets of the city's Jamaica, Queens, neighborhood late this morning after escaping from a slaughterhouse, according to ABC's New York station WABC . A local named Jimmy King told WABC he was nearly mauled by the animal. "[If] I didn't move to the left like this, he would have got me," King said. "Thank God I'm alive." At one point, the bull began grazing on someone's lawn. But once police officers closed in on it, the bull got spooked and trotted off again, according to video recorded by WABC.       Several times during the chase, the bull squeezed through and narrowly avoided cop cars that tried to pin it down. Police officers were eventually able to corral the animal and shoot it with several darts containing tranquilizers, WABC reported. Once the bull was sedated, it was loaded onto a vehicle for transport to a local animal shelter -- but it didn't survive for long. Animal Care Centers of NYC said the bull was dead on arrival when it arrived at the Brooklyn facility, according to WABC. The police source told ABC News that while the NYPD is good at many things, the department has proved deficient in bull wrangling. "We're really not good at it," the source said. "They don't train us for that in the academy." Shares                  Runaway bull that led NYPD on chase dies after being tranquilized   Is Trump right about crime in Sweden?   Trump denounces anti-Semitic threats as 'horrible'   Dozens of headstones toppled at Jewish cemetery in Missouri   Supreme Court hearing case of teen shot dead in Mexico by border agent in US   Yahoo salvages Verizon deal with $350 million discount   Graffiti found at 3 popular monuments in Washington, DC   Pinpointing cause of death for NK's Kim Jong Nam may be hard   Almost 2,000 opioid-related deaths in Massachusetts show fentanyl dangers rising   Israeli soldier gets 18 months in Palestinian assailant's death, less than requested   Officer killed after responding to crash identified   Trump visits African American History Museum   Tom Brady's missing Super Bowl jersey valued at $500K   George Clooney says he and Amal are 'really excited' about parenthood   Zimbabwe's Mugabe praises Trump's 'America First' policy   Evacuations ordered amid heavy Northern California rain   The making of 'La La Land': Why it's important to modern cinema   Jennifer Lopez denies she dates younger men, says age doesn't matter   Katy Perry's 'Chained to the Rhythm' video critiques American culture

A bull that led police on a wild goose chase through New York City earlier today has died just hours after it was captured, according to a New York Police Department source briefed on the incident.

The bull was originally spotted roaming the streets of the city's Jamaica, Queens, neighborhood late this morning after escaping from a slaughterhouse, according to ABC's New York station WABC.

A local named Jimmy King told WABC he was nearly mauled by the animal.

"[If] I didn't move to the left like this, he would have got me," King said. "Thank God I'm alive."

At one point, the bull began grazing on someone's lawn. But once police officers closed in on it, the bull got spooked and trotted off again, according to video recorded by WABC.

Several times during the chase, the bull squeezed through and narrowly avoided cop cars that tried to pin it down.

Police officers were eventually able to corral the animal and shoot it with several darts containing tranquilizers, WABC reported.

Once the bull was sedated, it was loaded onto a vehicle for transport to a local animal shelter -- but it didn't survive for long.

Animal Care Centers of NYC said the bull was dead on arrival when it arrived at the Brooklyn facility, according to WABC.

The police source told ABC News that while the NYPD is good at many things, the department has proved deficient in bull wrangling.

"We're really not good at it," the source said. "They don't train us for that in the academy."