Future Flaunts His Lavish Lifestyle in 'Super Trapper' Video: Watch
Future Flaunts His Lavish Lifestyle in 'Super Trapper' Video: Watch
Future Flaunts His Lavish Lifestyle in 'Super Trapper' Video: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Fresh off the release of his self-titled album, Future unveils his new video "Super Trapper." For his latest visual, the Atlanta rapperÂ is swarmed by a sea of gorgeous women inside aÂ lavish mansion.Â "The top come out the Lamb cause I'm a super trapper/ My pockets on Fat Albert I'm a super trapper," he boasts on the DY and Southside-produced beat.Â Never bashful about his success, Future also dishes opulent raps in front of his shark tank. "My tennis bracelets lookin' like a water fountain/ I got Benjamins, they taller than a mountain/ I was pushing dope and then hired an accountant." During his interview with Zane Lowe last week, Future explained how the song "Super Trapper" entailsÂ "taking an average person and making them a superhero."Â  On Friday (Feb. 19), Future unleashed his 17-track project with no features. In addition to his new album, Future will embark on his Nobody Safe Tour Â this upcoming MayÂ with Migos, Kodak Black, Tory Lanez.Â Check out his newÂ video below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Fresh off the release of his self-titled album, Future unveils his new video "Super Trapper." For his latest visual, the Atlanta rapperÂ is swarmed by a sea of gorgeous women inside aÂ lavish mansion.Â "The top come out the Lamb cause I'm a super trapper/ My pockets on Fat Albert I'm a super trapper," he boasts on the DY and Southside-produced beat.Â

Never bashful about his success, Future also dishes opulent raps in front of his shark tank. "My tennis bracelets lookin' like a water fountain/ I got Benjamins, they taller than a mountain/ I was pushing dope and then hired an accountant."

During his interview with Zane Lowe last week, Future explained how the song "Super Trapper" entailsÂ "taking an average person and making them a superhero."Â

On Friday (Feb. 19), Future unleashed his 17-track project with no features. In addition to his new album, Future will embark on his Nobody Safe TourÂ this upcoming MayÂ with Migos, Kodak Black, Tory Lanez.Â

Check out his newÂ video below.