Isaiah Thomas Tweets Emoji, Everyone Obsesses over Meaning
Isaiah Thomas Tweets Emoji, Everyone Obsesses over Meaning
👀 The internet reads too much into pro athletes' motives. This was proved when everyone impersonated Sherlock Holmes after Isaiah Thomas' emoji post on Monday. Yes, it's just a symbol of eyeballs. No explanation. No words. That was enough for spectators to wonder if the Boston Celtics pulled off a major deal prior to Thursday's deadline. Through the art of deduction and scrolling through the Twitter archives, detectives confirmed that Thomas used the same emoji right as Al Horford signed with the Celtics last summer: Not saying it means anything, but...

Another time Isaiah Thomas tweeted the eyes emoji: right before the Al Horford signing. https://t.co/MNmZ2qFRbR This whipped Twitter into a frenzy, as fans anxiously awaited a move for Jimmy Butler or Carmelo Anthony : .@Isaiah_Thomas I literally keep refreshing my timeline every 10 seconds. WOJBOMB WYA??? https://t.co/euFoPtOx2E 8:23 PM
Isaiah Thomas: 👀
Me: gotta wait for this trade 

12:44 AM
Me: I'm going to bed
Jae Crowder: 😎😜😆
Me: https://t.co/oVLIRTpwQi On one hand, Marc Berman of the wrote the "odds are heavily against" the New York Knicks moving their star scorer. On the other hand, here's a frivolous clue that probably means nothing: Celtics instagram just followed melo 👀 @Isaiah_Thomas @celtics https://t.co/DUO9HssNr4 The suspense continued when Detroit Pistons center Andre Drummond retweeted Thomas' emoji. Then he again tweeted the same thing: 👀 Thomas may know about a pending transaction. Or it could mean literally anything else. Maybe he was still processing that his old team, the Sacramento Kings , dealt DeMarcus Cousins . He could also be in shock from a weekend full of hearing flat-Earth theories . Maybe someone cut the line at the local coffee shop. Perhaps the vending machine gave Thomas two candy bars for the price of one. Or maybe he realized he has the power to mess with everyone without typing or uttering a single word...unless the Celtics are on the verge of acquiring Anthony, Butler, Drummond and LeBron James without sacrificing the Brooklyn Nets ' first-round pick. [Twitter] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

The internet reads too much into pro athletes' motives. This was proved when everyone impersonated Sherlock Holmes after Isaiah Thomas' emoji post on Monday.

Yes, it's just a symbol of eyeballs. No explanation. No words. That was enough for spectators to wonder if the Boston Celtics pulled off a major deal prior to Thursday's deadline.

Through the art of deduction and scrolling through the Twitter archives, detectives confirmed that Thomas used the same emoji right as Al Horford signed with the Celtics last summer:

This whipped Twitter into a frenzy, as fans anxiously awaited a move for Jimmy Butler or Carmelo Anthony:

On one hand, Marc Berman of the New York Post wrote the "odds are heavily against" the New York Knicks moving their star scorer. On the other hand, here's a frivolous clue that probably means nothing:

The suspense continued when Detroit Pistons center Andre Drummond retweeted Thomas' emoji. Then he again tweeted the same thing:

Thomas may know about a pending transaction. Or it could mean literally anything else. Maybe he was still processing that his old team, the Sacramento Kings, dealt DeMarcus Cousins. He could also be in shock from a weekend full of hearing flat-Earth theories.

Maybe someone cut the line at the local coffee shop. Perhaps the vending machine gave Thomas two candy bars for the price of one.

Or maybe he realized he has the power to mess with everyone without typing or uttering a single word...unless the Celtics are on the verge of acquiring Anthony, Butler, Drummond and LeBron James without sacrificing the Brooklyn Nets' first-round pick.

[Twitter]