Watch Ed Sheeran Perform 'Divide' Singles, Cover Little Mix in Live Lounge
Watch Ed Sheeran Perform 'Divide' Singles, Cover Little Mix in Live Lounge
Watch Ed Sheeran Perform 'Divide' Singles, Cover Little Mix in Live Lounge  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Ed Sheeran is on a serious roll of live performances. The latest addition? BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge. The British singer-songwriter (and current Billboard Hot 100 chart-topper) brought his newest singles, a couple of his older tunes, and a Little Mix cover for his firstÂ Live Lounge performance in two years on Tuesday (Feb. 21). Starting off with "Shape of You,"Â Sheeran used his loop-pedal powers to perform "Shape of You," similar to his show-stoppingÂ GrammysÂ performance.Â Followed by his otherÂ Â single,Â "Castle on the Hill," Sheeran also sang Â tracks "Bloodstream" andÂ "Thinking Out Loud"Â while in the studio.  As if Sheeran's own songs weren't enough to have fans swooning over his Live Lounge appearance, he also tried his hand at Little Mix 's latest single "Touch" -- and, of course, nailed it . CheckÂ out three ofÂ Sheeran'sÂ Live Lounge performances below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Ed Sheeran covers Little Mix's "Touch" in the Live Lounge on Feb. 21, 2017.

Ed Sheeran is on a serious roll of live performances. The latest addition? BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge.

The British singer-songwriter (and current Billboard Hot 100 chart-topper) brought his newest singles, a couple of his older tunes, and a Little Mix cover for his firstÂ Live Lounge performance in two years on Tuesday (Feb. 21).

Starting off with "Shape of You,"Â Sheeran used his loop-pedal powers to perform "Shape of You," similar to his show-stoppingÂ GrammysÂ performance.Â Followed by his otherÂ DivideÂ single,Â "Castle on the Hill," Sheeran also sang xÂ tracks "Bloodstream" andÂ "Thinking Out Loud"Â while in the studio.

As if Sheeran's own songs weren't enough to have fans swooning over his Live Lounge appearance, he also tried his hand at Little Mix's latest single "Touch" -- and, of course, nailed it.

CheckÂ out three ofÂ Sheeran'sÂ Live Lounge performances below.