Air Force Sergeant Hacks Colleague Into Pieces Over Alleged Love Affair With His Wife
Air Force Sergeant Hacks Colleague Into Pieces Over Alleged Love Affair With His Wife
Air Force Sergeant Hacks Colleague Into Pieces Over Alleged Love Affair With His Wife An Indian Air Force (IAF) corporal posted at Bhisiana air base, in Chandigarh was killed and his body hacked to pieces by a colleague and his kin over his alleged affair with the latter's wife. The victim, Vipan Shukla, 27, belonged to Gonda in Uttar Pradesh. Sergeant Sulesh Kumar, his wife and brother-in-law killed the corporal on the night of February 8, however, the murder came to light on Tuesday with the discovery of Shukla's body from the residence of the sergeant. This led to the arrest of Kumar and his wife Anuradha Patel, but the latter's brother, Shashi Bhushan, who is in the merchant navy, is still at large. Bhushan had come to meet his sister when the crime was committed. Giving details of the crime, Bathinda SSP Swapan Sharma said that after Corporal Shukla's wife Kumkum lodged a complaint at Balluana police post on February 9 about her husband going missing, they began investigating. When the police were searching the family accommodations at the airbase, the sniffer dogs led them to the sergeant's house, from where the police recovered the corporal's body parts packed in 16 plastic bags from an almirah and refrigerator in the house. The SSP said that Shukla was posted at Bhisiana in 2014 but came here without his wife. He soon got involved with the sergeant's wife and she became pregnant. As per sources, when she asked him to marry her, he refused as he was already married. In December 2016, Shukla's wife began staying in Bhisiana. Anuradha was then forced to tell her husband about her affair, said cops. An angry Kumar then began plotting Shukla's murder. After he was allotted another residential quarter, he called Shukla to his house on February 8 and asked him to lend a hand with the packing. He, along with his wife and brother-in-law, then allegedly killed Shukla with a sharp-edged weapon and stuffed the body into an iron trunk. When the family shifted to their new accommodation on February 19, they cut the body into pieces and packed these into 16 bags and hid them.

An Indian Air Force (IAF) corporal posted at Bhisiana air base, in Chandigarh was killed and his body hacked to pieces by a colleague and his kin over his alleged affair with the latter's wife.

BCCL/representational image

The victim, Vipan Shukla, 27, belonged to Gonda in Uttar Pradesh. Sergeant Sulesh Kumar, his wife and brother-in-law killed the corporal on the night of February 8, however, the murder came to light on Tuesday with the discovery of Shukla's body from the residence of the sergeant.

This led to the arrest of Kumar and his wife Anuradha Patel, but the latter's brother, Shashi Bhushan, who is in the merchant navy, is still at large. Bhushan had come to meet his sister when the crime was committed.

Giving details of the crime, Bathinda SSP Swapan Sharma said that after Corporal Shukla's wife Kumkum lodged a complaint at Balluana police post on February 9 about her husband going missing, they began investigating.

BCCL/representational image

When the police were searching the family accommodations at the airbase, the sniffer dogs led them to the sergeant's house, from where the police recovered the corporal's body parts packed in 16 plastic bags from an almirah and refrigerator in the house.

The SSP said that Shukla was posted at Bhisiana in 2014 but came here without his wife. He soon got involved with the sergeant's wife and she became pregnant. As per sources, when she asked him to marry her, he refused as he was already married. In December 2016, Shukla's wife began staying in Bhisiana. Anuradha was then forced to tell her husband about her affair, said cops.

AP/representational image

An angry Kumar then began plotting Shukla's murder. After he was allotted another residential quarter, he called Shukla to his house on February 8 and asked him to lend a hand with the packing.

He, along with his wife and brother-in-law, then allegedly killed Shukla with a sharp-edged weapon and stuffed the body into an iron trunk. When the family shifted to their new accommodation on February 19, they cut the body into pieces and packed these into 16 bags and hid them.

Don't Miss 6.5 K SHARES 2.4 K SHARES 58.1 K SHARES 38.2 K SHARES 48.4 K SHARES

Originally Published In The Times Of India