SRK-AbRam’s Fun Car Ride, Ranbir Kapoor’s Look For Sanjay Dutt Biopic & More From Entertainment
SRK-AbRam’s Fun Car Ride, Ranbir Kapoor’s Look For Sanjay Dutt Biopic & More From Entertainment
SRK-AbRam’s Fun Car Ride, Ranbir Kapoor’s Look For Sanjay Dutt Biopic & More From Entertainment 1. This Video Of SRK Taking Little AbRam For A Ride In His Convertible Is A Sight To Behold! Recently, SRK and AbRam were spotted on the Mumbai streets taking a ride in the former’s open top BMW convertible. While SRK took to the driving seat, little AbRam sat in the passenger seat along with a guy from SRK’s team. The duo caught a lot of attention from the onlookers, all thanks to the open top (No tinted windows you see *wink*) 2. Leaked Picture Of Ranbir's Look From Sanjay Dutt Biopic Shows An Uncanny Resemblance To Him A leaked picture of Ranbir has emerged on the social circuit. He is sporting Sanju Baba’s popular hairdo from the 90s and the resemblance is uncanny! Keeping up with that era, Ranbir can be seen sporting baggy clothes. What’s more, he is spending a lot of time in the gym. Why, you ask? Well, he has been told to bulk up for his look to match up with Sanjay Dutt. 3. 'Tu Cheez Badi Hai Mast' Is About To Get A Makeover & We Are Getting A Sinking Feeling Already If reports are to be believed, then Abbas-Mustan will be using the famous number for their upcoming thriller film, Machine. Machine will see the debut of Abbas’s son, Mustafa who will act alongside Kiara Advani 4. Whoa! SRK Might Have Refused To Work With Kangana Ranaut In Sanjay Leela Bhansali's Film According to report carried out by Business Of Cinema, Shah Rukh Khan might have rejected the film starring Kangana. Reportedly, two scripts of SLB’s projects were narrated to him. However, he rejected the one in which Kangana was roped in as the female lead. 5. Controversy Queen Sofia Hayat Gets Swastika Tattoos On Her Feet, Faces Internet's Wrath! Ok..so my last photo was me having tatoos on my feet...the sacred swastika..found on the feet of BUDDHA.. the sacred .. eternal..self existence..the star of David..the Islamic moon..universal manifestation..the Sun..hindu swastika..ancient christian cross..buddhist..tibetan..it encompasses the all..the power of the universe at my feet so to at yours..wake up..we are one! A symbol is just a symbol and it is the intent that makes the difference. A scalpel in the hands of a surgeon is a tool in his profession can save a life; while in the hands of a perpetrator is unlawful possession of a weapon, in the eyes of the law, to commit a crime. In the Dahmmapada, Yamaka Vagga (The Twin Verses), Verses 1 and 2 straighten our minds and views on good and evil intentions. “Mano pubbaṅgamă mano, setthă manomayă Manasă ce padutthena, bhăsati vă katoti vă Tato naḿ dukkhamanvertĭ, cakkaḿ’va vahato padam”. (Mind is the forerunner of (all evil) states. Mind is chief; mind-made are they. If one speaks or acts with wicked mind, because of that suffering follows one, even as the wheel follows the hoofs of the draught-ox). “Mano pubbaňgama, mano setthă manomayă Manasă ce pasannena, bhăsti vă karoti vă Tato naḿ sukkamanveti, chăyă’va anapăynĭ”. (Mind is the forerunner of (all good) states. Mind is chief, mind-made are they. If one speaks or acts with pure mind, because of that, happiness follows one, even as one’s shadow that never leaves). #templeofawakening #gaiamothersofia #spiritual #love #ayahuasca #dmt #awakening #conciousness #christ #ra #mothermary #shiva #goddessisis #auset #osiris #ra #trinity A post shared by Sofia Hayat. (Gaia Mother) (@sofiahayat) on Feb 18, 2017 at 3:47am PST   Popular reality show contestant Sofia Hayat who was once upon a time known for sleaze and steamy scenes, has now got two swastika symbols on her feet. Sofia, who has her ways of being in the news, got herself inked with the auspicious symbols, which is seen as a power symbol and is also the emblem of Ganesha.

1. This Video Of SRK Taking Little AbRam For A Ride In His Convertible Is A Sight To Behold!

Recently, SRK and AbRam were spotted on the Mumbai streets taking a ride in the former’s open top BMW convertible. While SRK took to the driving seat, little AbRam sat in the passenger seat along with a guy from SRK’s team. The duo caught a lot of attention from the onlookers, all thanks to the open top (No tinted windows you see *wink*)

2. Leaked Picture Of Ranbir's Look From Sanjay Dutt Biopic Shows An Uncanny Resemblance To Him

A leaked picture of Ranbir has emerged on the social circuit. He is sporting Sanju Baba’s popular hairdo from the 90s and the resemblance is uncanny! Keeping up with that era, Ranbir can be seen sporting baggy clothes. What’s more, he is spending a lot of time in the gym. Why, you ask? Well, he has been told to bulk up for his look to match up with Sanjay Dutt.

3. 'Tu Cheez Badi Hai Mast' Is About To Get A Makeover & We Are Getting A Sinking Feeling Already

Video Grab

If reports are to be believed, then Abbas-Mustan will be using the famous number for their upcoming thriller film, Machine. Machine will see the debut of Abbas’s son, Mustafa who will act alongside Kiara Advani

4. Whoa! SRK Might Have Refused To Work With Kangana Ranaut In Sanjay Leela Bhansali's Film

According to report carried out by Business Of Cinema, Shah Rukh Khan might have rejected the film starring Kangana. Reportedly, two scripts of SLB’s projects were narrated to him. However, he rejected the one in which Kangana was roped in as the female lead.

5. Controversy Queen Sofia Hayat Gets Swastika Tattoos On Her Feet, Faces Internet's Wrath!

Popular reality show contestant Sofia Hayat who was once upon a time known for sleaze and steamy scenes, has now got two swastika symbols on her feet. Sofia, who has her ways of being in the news, got herself inked with the auspicious symbols, which is seen as a power symbol and is also the emblem of Ganesha.

Don't Miss 11.6 K SHARES 7.4 K SHARES 66.7 K SHARES 26.2 K SHARES 21.8 K SHARES