Burger King, Tim Hortons owner adding Popeyes to holdings
Burger King, Tim Hortons owner adding Popeyes to holdings
Shares                The parent company of Burger King and Tim Hortons is buying Popeyes for $1.8 billion, with plans to accelerate the growth of the fried chicken chain. Such a move fits Restaurant Brands International's strategy of taking over well-known fast-food chains that it believes have the potential for wider expansion. While Popeyes has a presence in almost every state, its locations now are concentrated in the eastern half of the continental U.S. Josh Kobza, Restaurant Brands' chief financial officer, said Tuesday the company plans to speed up Popeyes' expansion, as it has done with Burger King. Restaurant Brands was created after Burger King, controlled by Brazilian investment firm 3G Capital, bought Tim Hortons in 2014. The corporate name it took signaled the company's aim of expanding its stable of fast-food chains. In the meantime, Restaurant Brands has been striking deals with local operators to open additional Burger Kings around the world. However, Cowen analyst Andrew Charles said last week that the company has not yet accomplished its goal of expanding Tim Hortons internationally. Although Tim Hortons has signed three master franchise development agreements in the Philippines , the United Kingdom and Mexico, Charles noted no stores have yet opened under those deals. Stephen Anderson, a Maxim Group analyst, noted last week that Popeyes has had stronger sales performance worldwide in the past two years compared to Burger King and Tim Hortons. The deal gives shareholders of Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen Inc. $79 per share, a 19 percent premium from its closing price on Friday. Restaurant Brands International Inc., based in suburban Toronto, has more than 20,000 locations globally, and Popeyes would give it about 2,600 more. By comparison, McDonald's Corp. had more than 36,800 locations around the world at the end of 2016. Yum Brands, which owns KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, has more than 43,600. Restaurant Brands makes money from fees it charges franchisees who operate Burger King and Tim Hortons restaurants. It has also been improving its financial results by cutting costs, the same strategy 3G has employed with another of its investments, Kraft Heinz. Shares                  Burger King, Tim Hortons owner adding Popeyes to holdings   White House: Mass deportation not goal of immigration memos despite fears among many   Police: Suspects in N. Korean death coated hands with poison   Judge blocks Texas cutting Medicaid to Planned Parenthood   Banner reading 'Refugees welcome' appears at base of Statue of Liberty   Hundreds rescued from California floodwaters in San Jose   Dozens of headstones toppled at Jewish cemetery in Missouri   Wells Fargo fires 4 senior managers in sales scandal inquiry   Graffiti found at 4 popular monuments in Washington, DC   Almost 2,000 opioid-related deaths in Massachusetts show fentanyl dangers rising   GOP members of Congress meet with protests at town halls   More tests needed on Russian UN ambassador's cause of death   Life expectancy to keep rising; S. Korean women could hit 91   High pollen counts reported as mild weather kick-starts allergy season   Ukraine backs more sanctions against Russia in passport spat   Yahoo salvages Verizon deal with $350 million discount   Israeli soldier gets 18 months in Palestinian assailant's death, less than requested   Runaway bull that led NYPD on chase dies after being tranquilized   Pilot in Australia crash called 'mayday' several times, authorities say   5 killed, including 4 Americans, in Australian charter plane crash   Tom Brady's missing Super Bowl jersey valued at $500K   George Clooney says he and Amal are 'really excited' about parenthood   MLB to push forward with process for rule changes   Evacuations ordered amid heavy Northern California rain   The making of 'La La Land': Why it's important to modern cinema   Jennifer Lopez denies she dates younger men, says age doesn't matter   Katy Perry's 'Chained to the Rhythm' video critiques American culture

The parent company of Burger King and Tim Hortons is buying Popeyes for $1.8 billion, with plans to accelerate the growth of the fried chicken chain.

Such a move fits Restaurant Brands International's strategy of taking over well-known fast-food chains that it believes have the potential for wider expansion. While Popeyes has a presence in almost every state, its locations now are concentrated in the eastern half of the continental U.S.

Josh Kobza, Restaurant Brands' chief financial officer, said Tuesday the company plans to speed up Popeyes' expansion, as it has done with Burger King.

Restaurant Brands was created after Burger King, controlled by Brazilian investment firm 3G Capital, bought Tim Hortons in 2014. The corporate name it took signaled the company's aim of expanding its stable of fast-food chains. In the meantime, Restaurant Brands has been striking deals with local operators to open additional Burger Kings around the world.

However, Cowen analyst Andrew Charles said last week that the company has not yet accomplished its goal of expanding Tim Hortons internationally. Although Tim Hortons has signed three master franchise development agreements in the Philippines, the United Kingdom and Mexico, Charles noted no stores have yet opened under those deals.

Stephen Anderson, a Maxim Group analyst, noted last week that Popeyes has had stronger sales performance worldwide in the past two years compared to Burger King and Tim Hortons.

The deal gives shareholders of Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen Inc. $79 per share, a 19 percent premium from its closing price on Friday.

Restaurant Brands International Inc., based in suburban Toronto, has more than 20,000 locations globally, and Popeyes would give it about 2,600 more.

By comparison, McDonald's Corp. had more than 36,800 locations around the world at the end of 2016. Yum Brands, which owns KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, has more than 43,600.

Restaurant Brands makes money from fees it charges franchisees who operate Burger King and Tim Hortons restaurants. It has also been improving its financial results by cutting costs, the same strategy 3G has employed with another of its investments, Kraft Heinz.