Mehbooba Mufti Says There'll Be No Peace Till Pandits Feel Safe Living In Kashmir
Mehbooba Mufti Says There'll Be No Peace Till Pandits Feel Safe Living In Kashmir
Mehbooba Mufti Says There'll Be No Peace Till Pandits Feel Safe Living In Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister, Mehbooba Mufti, said peace will remain elusive in the state unless Kashmiri Pandits feel safe living in the valley again. "Even after we hold talks (with Pakistan), reopen roads between two sides, Kashmir will remain incomplete and peace in Kashmir is incomplete, unless and until Kashmiri Pandits do not feel that they will able to live in Kashmir again," She said. This, she said, is the real challenge. "Please pray on holy night of Shivratri to God to create peace in Kashmir so that all migrants could return to their homes and hearths with respect and dignity. "It is big need of the time that you return back to your roots with respect," she said. "Kashmir has lagged behind due to your migration from the Valley. You were our assets. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs -- all are a big treasure of brotherhood and composite culture," the CM said. Mehbooba also said that in Jammu people from diverse backgrounds are living together peacefully, but this "composite culture" has been lost in Kashmir. "One of my KP brothers was saying that the government of India should be pressed to commence dialogue with Pakistan. Even after we hold talks with Pakistan, reopen roads between two sides, Kashmir will remain incomplete and peace in Kashmir is incomplete, unless and until KPs do not feel that he will be able to live in Kashmir again. That is the real test to us," she said. "You may have many [personal] problems," she said, but there is also a lot of stress in the community. "You may be feeling the difficulty due to this barbed wire, but Kashmir is laid with such wires. It is we Kashmiris who are responsible for that. We are responsible for this. "When we cross Jawahir tunnel towards Jammu, the mind opens and we become free but in Kashmir, people are under huge stress. We have created the situation ourselves," she said.

Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister, Mehbooba Mufti, said peace will remain elusive in the state unless Kashmiri Pandits feel safe living in the valley again.

Reuters/representational image

"Even after we hold talks (with Pakistan), reopen roads between two sides, Kashmir will remain incomplete and peace in Kashmir is incomplete, unless and until Kashmiri Pandits do not feel that they will able to live in Kashmir again," She said.

This, she said, is the real challenge.

"Please pray on holy night of Shivratri to God to create peace in Kashmir so that all migrants could return to their homes and hearths with respect and dignity.

"It is big need of the time that you return back to your roots with respect," she said.

AFP

"Kashmir has lagged behind due to your migration from the Valley. You were our assets. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs -- all are a big treasure of brotherhood and composite culture," the CM said.

Mehbooba also said that in Jammu people from diverse backgrounds are living together peacefully, but this "composite culture" has been lost in Kashmir.

"One of my KP brothers was saying that the government of India should be pressed to commence dialogue with Pakistan. Even after we hold talks with Pakistan, reopen roads between two sides, Kashmir will remain incomplete and peace in Kashmir is incomplete, unless and until KPs do not feel that he will be able to live in Kashmir again. That is the real test to us," she said.

Reuters/representational image

"You may have many [personal] problems," she said, but there is also a lot of stress in the community.

"You may be feeling the difficulty due to this barbed wire, but Kashmir is laid with such wires. It is we Kashmiris who are responsible for that. We are responsible for this.

"When we cross Jawahir tunnel towards Jammu, the mind opens and we become free but in Kashmir, people are under huge stress. We have created the situation ourselves," she said.

Don't Miss 2.6 K SHARES 416 SHARES 42.4 K SHARES 61.4 K SHARES 26 K SHARES

Inputs From PTI