Iceland's President Says He Would Gladly Ban Pineapple Pizzas If He Could, Starts An Online Row
Iceland's President Says He Would Gladly Ban Pineapple Pizzas If He Could, Starts An Online Row
Iceland's President Says He Would Gladly Ban Pineapple Pizzas If He Could, Starts An Online Row One of the world's most hotly debated subject is that of pineapple pizzas. While on one hand we have those who can't stand the sight of the godforsaken fruit (count me as one of them), the other group will promptly sell their souls to defend it. I mean, as a pizza topping, pineapple is a grave mistake. And agreeing with us is Iceland's president, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson. While answering questions at a North Iceland high school, one student asked for Jóhannesson's take on pineapple pizzas. And without blinking an eye, the president expressed his scorn for the dish. He said that if he had the power, he would simply pass a law to ban the loathsome combination across Iceland, reported local media source, . Folks on Twitter immediately jumped to defend and offend pineapple pizzas. Iceland's President is the hero we all need right now... #pineappleonpizza Iceland's President wants to ban pineapple on pizza?? oh my why is there such hatred towards that, pineapple on pizza doesn't deserve it😂 Well, Nestle's DiGiornio Pizzeria definitely took offence. No ban here 🙃 pic.twitter.com/vmSJw5F1ew Come on, people. You know it's a crime to ruin the greatest food of all time by forcibly loading a low-born fruit on top of it. Have some morals, seriously!

One of the world's most hotly debated subject is that of pineapple pizzas. While on one hand we have those who can't stand the sight of the godforsaken fruit (count me as one of them), the other group will promptly sell their souls to defend it.

visir

I mean, as a pizza topping, pineapple is a grave mistake. And agreeing with us is Iceland's president, Guðni Th. Jóhannesson.

While answering questions at a North Iceland high school, one student asked for Jóhannesson's take on pineapple pizzas. And without blinking an eye, the president expressed his scorn for the dish.

bondi pizza

He said that if he had the power, he would simply pass a law to ban the loathsome combination across Iceland, reported local media source, Visir.

Folks on Twitter immediately jumped to defend and offend pineapple pizzas.

Iceland's President is the hero we all need right now... #pineappleonpizza — lalammar (@Layla_AlAmmar) February 21, 2017

Iceland's President wants to ban pineapple on pizza?? oh my why is there such hatred towards that, pineapple on pizza doesn't deserve it😂 — wassy fassy🦉 (@fassywassy) February 21, 2017

Well, Nestle's DiGiornio Pizzeria definitely took offence.

No ban here 🙃 pic.twitter.com/vmSJw5F1ew — DiGiorno Pizza (@DiGiornoPizza) February 21, 2017

Come on, people. You know it's a crime to ruin the greatest food of all time by forcibly loading a low-born fruit on top of it. Have some morals, seriously!