Seen This Image Of 'Pregnant' Trump Being Spooned By Vladimir Putin? Here’s What It Means!
Seen This Image Of 'Pregnant' Trump Being Spooned By Vladimir Putin? Here’s What It Means!
Seen This Image Of 'Pregnant' Trump Being Spooned By Vladimir Putin? Here’s What It Means! This 'Yuge' illustration of a pregnant Donald Trump being lovingly caressed by his 'lover boy' Vladimir Putin, appeared across buildings in New York City on Valentines Day. The image quite obviously went 'bigly' viral. The illustration popped up in three different locations across the city, leaving people baffled and assumed at the same time. #Trump  #Putin image projected on #NYC building on 9th Avenue #Chelsea  pic.twitter.com/Dzt2kSTL2e The hilarious illustration, however, was not an all-out political attack on the presidential power couple. It was an advertising ploy of a dating app called 'Hater'. Make #valentinesday great again. Come hang on 14th and 8th if you're in NYC. Encore at Wythe and North 6th @ 8:30. #lovethroughhate  pic.twitter.com/ZnN9Zs4MX1 'Hater' is a new age dating app, which as the name suggests, literally matches people who detest each other. The app is the brainchild of Goldman Sachs employee-turned-comedian Brendan Alper. "There’s a lot of tension out there, regardless of which side you’re on. We’re just trying to make people laugh. Through humour, hate can turn into love," Alper told . The app with an upside-down heart is not even a month old and is currently the numero uno lifestyle app in Germany. Almost 80 percent of its users in the US and abroad hate Trump to his guts, states the Business Insider report. Twitterati, as usual, had a field day with the image PUTIN DIDN'T PULL OUT OF CRIMEA EITHER 😒 #lovethroughhate  #PuppetPresident  pic.twitter.com/jmOC4y2weh #LoveThroughHate What a warm and lovely embrace! @realDonaldTrump you're glowing!! pic.twitter.com/tISyJ8Q817 With an administration like this one, if we didn't have freedom of speech, we could end up like Russia or North Korea. #lovethroughhate  pic.twitter.com/yaDeblcRCM

This 'Yuge' illustration of a pregnant Donald Trump being lovingly caressed by his 'lover boy' Vladimir Putin, appeared across buildings in New York City on Valentines Day.

The image quite obviously went 'bigly' viral. The illustration popped up in three different locations across the city, leaving people baffled and assumed at the same time.

The hilarious illustration, however, was not an all-out political attack on the presidential power couple. It was an advertising ploy of a dating app called 'Hater'.

Make #valentinesday great again. Come hang on 14th and 8th if you're in NYC. Encore at Wythe and North 6th @ 8:30. #lovethroughhate pic.twitter.com/ZnN9Zs4MX1 — Hater (@LoveThroughHate) 14 February 2017

'Hater' is a new age dating app, which as the name suggests, literally matches people who detest each other. The app is the brainchild of Goldman Sachs employee-turned-comedian Brendan Alper.

"There’s a lot of tension out there, regardless of which side you’re on. We’re just trying to make people laugh. Through humour, hate can turn into love," Alper told Business Insider.

The app with an upside-down heart is not even a month old and is currently the numero uno lifestyle app in Germany. Almost 80 percent of its users in the US and abroad hate Trump to his guts, states the Business Insider report.

Twitterati, as usual, had a field day with the image

With an administration like this one, if we didn't have freedom of speech, we could end up like Russia or North Korea. #lovethroughhate pic.twitter.com/yaDeblcRCM — Jessiqa (@JessiqaPace) 16 February 2017

Don't Miss 3.8 K SHARES 397 SHARES 46.4 K SHARES 62.2 K SHARES 29.2 K SHARES

This public display of affection between the two leaders isn’t something new. In May last year, a mural on the side of a restaurant in Lithuania of Trump kissing Putin sparked ‘laughtivism’ and outrage at the same time.

Twitter/@SallyYates

If you want some more clarity on this strange admiration that Trump has for Putin, the host of 'Last Week Tonight', John Oliver breaks it down for you in a hilarious way. In Oliver's words, Trump has been 'objectively nicer to Vladimir Putin than to Meryl Streep.'