A woman found a shirt tucked in her windscreen - and she has a serious warning for everyone
A woman found a shirt tucked in her windscreen - and she has a serious warning for everyone
Once inside, she realised a shirt had been thrown across her windshield and tucked under her windscreen wiper. Thanks to quick thinking and a previous warning from her mother, Hardacre got herself out of a potentially dangerous situation. She wrote on Facebook: I got to my car and locked the doors behind me immediately as I always do and noticed that there was a blue flannel shirt on my windshield. There were two cars near me and one was running so I immediately felt uneasy and knew I couldn't get out to get it off. I used my windshield wipers to try to get them off but the shirt was completely wrapped around my wiper blade. I had seen posts lately about people finding things under their windshield wipers in the burton/Flint area as an attempt to get girls out of their cars and distracted. I drove over to a place where I was safe and quickly rolled down my window and got the shirt off. I don't know why the shirt was on my car but it had to have been intentional the way it was put on there. I'm so glad my parents had informed me that it was happening in our area, I just never thought it would potentially happen to my car.   ​Hardacre's post has had more than 100,000 shares. Flint Township Police Detective Sergeant Brad Wangler told Nothing like this has ever happened before...There have been no other incidences like this. It’s kind of unknown as to what or why or who [did this].                    Keep scrolling for next article

When 19-year-old Ashley Hardacre finished her shift working at a mall in Michigan, she walked through the dark car park to get to her car.

Once inside, she realised a shirt had been thrown across her windshield and tucked under her windscreen wiper.

Thanks to quick thinking and a previous warning from her mother, Hardacre got herself out of a potentially dangerous situation. She wrote on Facebook:

I got to my car and locked the doors behind me immediately as I always do and noticed that there was a blue flannel shirt on my windshield. There were two cars near me and one was running so I immediately felt uneasy and knew I couldn't get out to get it off. I used my windshield wipers to try to get them off but the shirt was completely wrapped around my wiper blade. I had seen posts lately about people finding things under their windshield wipers in the burton/Flint area as an attempt to get girls out of their cars and distracted. I drove over to a place where I was safe and quickly rolled down my window and got the shirt off. I don't know why the shirt was on my car but it had to have been intentional the way it was put on there. I'm so glad my parents had informed me that it was happening in our area, I just never thought it would potentially happen to my car.

​Hardacre's post has had more than 100,000 shares.

Flint Township Police Detective Sergeant Brad Wangler told CBS News

Nothing like this has ever happened before...There have been no other incidences like this. It’s kind of unknown as to what or why or who [did this].

HT CBS News

More: Why people are calling this police officer a hero