Superyacht is released from three-day seizure
Superyacht is released from three-day seizure


One of the largest sailing yachts, which was impounded after the shipbuilder claimed its Russian billionaire owner still owed them money, has been released.

Sailing Yacht A was seized in Gibraltar after shipbuilders Nobiskrug claimed that Andrey Melnichenko owed €9.8 million as an outstanding payment, as well as €5.5m for subcontractors and interest charges.

The sum is in arbitration and the yacht will leave Gibraltar soon.

Super Yacht A, which was impounded after the shipbuilder claimed its Russian billionaire owner had not paid fees, has been released

The 468ft-long superyacht has three 300ft masts that are taller than Big Ben's tower.

It boasts eight floors, a helipad and an underwater observation room.

Mr Melnichenko will receive his prized possession in the spring.

A spokesman for Sailing Yacht A told MailOnline: 'This unfortunate incident is now resolved.

'The yacht will now be handed over to the owner's project team and will leave Gibraltar shortly.'

Its registered owner is Valla Yachts Ltd, a Bermuda company.

Mr Melnichenko will receive his prized possession in the spring

The 468ft-long superyacht has three 300ft masts that are taller than Big Ben's tower

Mr Melnichenko hit the headlines in September when he moored his other £240 million masterpiece, 'Motor Yacht A', on the Thames.

The boat's internal fit-out was set to continue at another shipyard before being handed over to Mr Melnichenko in late Spring.

As the boat made its way to Spain earlier this month, Mr Melnichenko's Project Director, Dirk Kloosterman said: 'This has been the most challenging assignment of my career. I am confident Sailing Yacht A will be the world's greatest yacht in terms of design and technology for the years ahead.

Melnichenko, who has an estimated net worth of $13.4 billion (£10.8 billion), is said to favour using the letter 'A' so that his vessels are listed first in shipping registers

Sailing Yacht A boasts eight floors - with a helipad on one of the decks - and an underwater observation room

'Her beauty is breathtaking, and Philippe Starck's astonishing design and ultimate vision will be the subject of many conversations wherever she travels around the globe.

Melnichenko, who has an estimated net worth of $13.4 billion (£10.8 billion), is said to favour using the letter 'A' so that his vessels are listed first in shipping registers.