Watch Future Perform "Draco" With DJ Esco on 'The Tonight Show'
Watch Future Perform "Draco" With DJ Esco on 'The Tonight Show'
For approximately 262 seconds Tuesday night, Jimmy Fallon's was actually quite watchable. But don't give Jimmy the credit. Give that to Future , who performed "Draco" with DJ Esco while we all simultaneously hyperventilated by the confirmation of even more new music coming soon from the unmatchably prolific artist. , the album home of the track, is currently on track for a No. 1 debut on the Billboard 200. The expected feat will mark Future's fourth successive No. 1 residency,  reported Wednesday. Naturally, the self-titled smash is quickly being followed by the just-confirmed : #HNDRXX  https://t.co/nkRxg20D6e  pic.twitter.com/gkXPuCUj6O Told YALL,I got a fully loaded clip...thought I was bluffing #HNDRXX Hendrix kicks off his Nobody Safe Tour in May. The two-month trek features support from Migos, Kodak Black, and Tory Lane. On select dates, Young Thug and ASAP Ferg will also take the stage : During an interview with Zane Lowe last week, Future filled everyone in on the creative joys of stepping away from social media. According to Future, his self-induced social media hiatus helped him regain focus. "It was probably the best thing I'd ever done," Future explained. "It's like I don't have to respond to certain things even going on in my life. I don't have to address it. I don't have to be able to speak on it because they know my social media is shut down. So anything going on in that period of time probably just gets washed away. I'm just not [giving] it attention."

For approximately 262 seconds Tuesday night, Jimmy Fallon's Tonight Show was actually quite watchable. But don't give Jimmy the credit. Give that to Future, who performed "Draco" with DJ Esco while we all simultaneously hyperventilated by the confirmation of even more new music coming soon from the unmatchably prolific artist.

Future, the album home of the track, is currently on track for a No. 1 debut on the Billboard 200. The expected feat will mark Future's fourth successive No. 1 residency, Billboard reported Wednesday. Naturally, the self-titled smash is quickly being followed by the just-confirmed HNDRXX:

Told YALL,I got a fully loaded clip...thought I was bluffing #HNDRXX — FUTURE/FREEBANDZ (@1future) February 22, 2017

Hendrix kicks off his Nobody Safe Tour in May. The two-month trek features support from Migos, Kodak Black, and Tory Lane. On select dates, Young Thug and ASAP Ferg will also take the stage:

During an interview with Zane Lowe last week, Future filled everyone in on the creative joys of stepping away from social media. According to Future, his self-induced social media hiatus helped him regain focus. "It was probably the best thing I'd ever done," Future explained. "It's like I don't have to respond to certain things even going on in my life. I don't have to address it. I don't have to be able to speak on it because they know my social media is shut down. So anything going on in that period of time probably just gets washed away. I'm just not [giving] it attention."