Tom Hanks Is Publishing A Short Story Collection
Tom Hanks Is Publishing A Short Story Collection
Tom Hanks is probably one of the most likable actors to ever exist. So it was only a matter of time before the Oscar-winner brought that quality to another art form. Hanks will publish his debut collection of short stories with Alfred A. Knopf in October, according to Entertainment Weekly. The collection, titled will include 17 pieces that all have something to do with ― get ready for this ― a typewriter. Apparently, the actor has an appreciation for the old-school devices and owns over 100 of them. Tom Hanks to publish his first book in October. UNCOMMON TYPE will contain 17 stories, each involving a different typewriter. pic.twitter.com/6qGazay59p The book was announced back in 2014 , but Hanks worked on it while also making movies in New York, Berlin, Budapest and Atlanta starting in 2015. (And you thought you were busy.) The actor told EW that he was inspired by some of the “smallest, most distant of memories, as well as those haunting questions about why things come about.” “What would you see at the 1939 Worlds Fair that would change your life? I remember a ride in a small plane when I was 7 years old — why was it was confusing? How did a veteran of WWII celebrate Christmas in, say, 1953?” he told the publication. The stories in the collection include tales about a man who immigrated to New York City after fleeing a civil war in his country, a billionaire who wants more out of life, an actor stuck on a press-junket hamster wheel, and more. If you’re desperate for a taste of literary Tom Hanks and don’t want to wait, pop over to The New Yorker to read his first short story from 2014. ALSO ON HUFFPOST: Tom Hanks Career Hits       Share this slide:       MORE:

Tom Hanks is probably one of the most likable actors to ever exist. So it was only a matter of time before the Oscar-winner brought that quality to another art form.

Hanks will publish his debut collection of short stories with Alfred A. Knopf in October, according to Entertainment Weekly.

The collection, titled Uncommon Type: Some Stories, will include 17 pieces that all have something to do with ― get ready for this ― a typewriter. Apparently, the actor has an appreciation for the old-school devices and owns over 100 of them.

Tom Hanks to publish his first book in October. UNCOMMON TYPE will contain 17 stories, each involving a different typewriter. pic.twitter.com/6qGazay59p — Ron Charles (@RonCharles) February 21, 2017

The book was announced back in 2014, but Hanks worked on it while also making movies in New York, Berlin, Budapest and Atlanta starting in 2015. (And you thought you were busy.)

The actor told EW that he was inspired by some of the “smallest, most distant of memories, as well as those haunting questions about why things come about.”

“What would you see at the 1939 Worlds Fair that would change your life? I remember a ride in a small plane when I was 7 years old — why was it was confusing? How did a veteran of WWII celebrate Christmas in, say, 1953?” he told the publication.

The stories in the collection include tales about a man who immigrated to New York City after fleeing a civil war in his country, a billionaire who wants more out of life, an actor stuck on a press-junket hamster wheel, and more.