MLB, union agree to get rid of traditional intentional walk,will use signal from dugout
Sources: Intentional walk change OK'd for 2017
Sources: Intentional walk change OK'd for 2017 Cubs' big-money decisions start with Jake Arrieta Advice from Pujols, Cano pushing Yasiel Puig in right direction Miller time? Why there won't be a bullpen revolution in the Bronx In a world without stats, who'd be baseball's best player? Time is running out for Red Sox's Rusney Castillo Bryce Harper says he's over 2016; maybe it's time to start listening Mark Melancon ready to lead Giants' new-look pen The art of the tag Marlins dismayed but resolute over Fernandez Did Joe Maddon break Bryce Harper? How the Tribe are refueling after grueling postseason Marlins face tough takeaways after losing Jose Fernandez The state of baseball's best teams ESPN senior writer Jayson Stark joins OTL to break down the possible changes we could see this season in Major League Baseball. (4:41) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment As part of its initiative to improve pace-of-game play, Major League Baseball has approved a change to the intentional walk rule, going from the traditional four-pitch walk to a dugout signal, team and union sources told ESPN's Howard Bryant. MLB has studied various ways to quicken games. ESPN's Jayson Stark reported earlier this month that MLB had made formal proposals to the players' union to usher in both raising the strike zone and scrapping the practice of lobbing four balls toward home plate to issue an intentional walk. Getting rid of the old-fashioned intentional walk would eliminate about a minute of dead time per walk. In an age in which intentional walks actually have been declining -- there were just 932 all last season (or one every 2.6 games) -- that time savings would be minimal. But MLB saw the practice of lobbing four meaningless pitches as antiquated. Stark reported at the time that for the intentional walk rule to go into effect this season, an agreement between the league and union would have to be reached "sooner rather than later," since spring training games are close to beginning. MLB commissioner Rob Manfred said Tuesday he didn't want to share specifics of his priorities for alterations. "There's a variety of changes that can be undertaken,'' he said. "I'm committed to the idea that we have a set of proposals out there and we continue to discuss those proposals in private.'' Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

ESPN senior writer Jayson Stark joins OTL to break down the possible changes we could see this season in Major League Baseball. (4:41)

As part of its initiative to improve pace-of-game play, Major League Baseball has approved a change to the intentional walk rule, going from the traditional four-pitch walk to a dugout signal, team and union sources told ESPN's Howard Bryant.

MLB has studied various ways to quicken games.

ESPN's Jayson Stark reported earlier this month that MLB had made formal proposals to the players' union to usher in both raising the strike zone and scrapping the practice of lobbing four balls toward home plate to issue an intentional walk.

Editor's Picks Manfred rips union for denying rule changes MLB commissioner Rob Manfred said the league intends give the players' association the required one-year notice that would allow management to unilaterally make rules changes.

Getting rid of the old-fashioned intentional walk would eliminate about a minute of dead time per walk. In an age in which intentional walks actually have been declining -- there were just 932 all last season (or one every 2.6 games) -- that time savings would be minimal. But MLB saw the practice of lobbing four meaningless pitches as antiquated.

Stark reported at the time that for the intentional walk rule to go into effect this season, an agreement between the league and union would have to be reached "sooner rather than later," since spring training games are close to beginning.

MLB commissioner Rob Manfred said Tuesday he didn't want to share specifics of his priorities for alterations.

"There's a variety of changes that can be undertaken,'' he said. "I'm committed to the idea that we have a set of proposals out there and we continue to discuss those proposals in private.''

Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.