Joe Scarborough Breaks Down Trump for Stephen Colbert
Joe Scarborough Breaks Down Trump for Stephen Colbert
. Scarborough Frets About Trump Joe Scarborough has been friendly with President Trump for years, even offering him advice on cabinet picks. But during an appearance on “The Late Show” on Tuesday, Mr. Scarborough, a former Republican congressman and a host of MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” told Stephen Colbert that he was dismayed with how Mr. Trump had handled his first month in office. In fact, he won’t even allow White House adviser Kellyanne Conway on his show anymore. It got to a point where Kellyanne would keep coming out, and everything she said was disproven like five minutes later. And it wasn’t disproven by a fact checker. It was somebody else in the administration that would come out and actually say, “Well, actually, no, that’s not true.” There’s a quicker way to say that entire sentence. Which is? She just lied. Well, yes, exactly. When Mr. Colbert asked his guest whether he thought Mr. Trump would make it through a full term, Mr. Scarborough hedged. Well, I think if he continues the way he continued the first month, I just don’t think it’s sustainable. And I don’t think it’ll last four years. Or will we just get used to it? Will we just like build a callus on our soul? Our soul will begin to look like a big toe. Well, I think we’ve already done that. I think we’ve already died a million deaths already the first month. Mr. Scarborough concluded his conversation with Mr. Colbert by joining Jon Batiste and Stay Human for a performance of “(What’s So Funny ’Bout) Peace, Love and Understanding.” Putter in Chief Mr. Colbert and other hosts took some swings at Mr. Trump for his golfing habit, after reports emerged that he had hit the links six times in the first month of his tenure. “I bet it’s hard to play golf with Trump, because every time he misses a putt, Kellyanne Conway comes out and explains that he actually won that hole.” — “His aides would not confirm that Trump played golf each time he went to the course. Sure, he could be on the course for any reason. We know he loves making fun of people’s handicaps.” — Colbert Pokes Fun at the ‘Old Pope’ Mr. Colbert also poked fun at another world leader, albeit one who seems to be a little less friendly to social media than Mr. Trump: Pope Francis. “Yesterday the pope gave a speech to students and addressed a vexing theological issue — texting at dinner — pope-ing, ‘When we are at the table, when we are speaking to others on our telephones, it’s the start of war.’ O.K., teens, I hope you’re happy. You and your texting is why we have wars. Now go clean your room before you start a pestilence. Just wait until your Holy Father comes home. This isn’t new. It’s an ancient problem. Even Jesus did it at the Last Supper. ‘Judas totes going to betray me. Frowny face.’” Joking that Pope Francis “was supposed to be the cool pope,” he quoted from an article in The New York Post and affected an Italian accent for another quip. “The pope also chided today’s youths for their lack of manners, saying that instead of a friendly ‘good morning,’ they opt for an anonymous ‘ciao, ciao.’ Not only are you teens being rude, you also sound super pretentious. ‘Ciao ciao, lil papa. Ciao, ciao. I have to go zoom-zoom on my scooter for another teensy tiny espresso. Beep, beep! Ciao ciao!’” The Punchiest Punchlines (Panic Edition) “The American flag behind Vice President Mike Pence during his speech in Brussels yesterday accidentally featured 51 stars instead of 50, in honor of the new 51st U.S. state: panic.” — “At his rally on Saturday, Trump suggested there was a terror attack in Sweden that didn’t really happen. And then the Swedish Embassy asked the State Department for an explanation. You know things are bad when the country that makes Ikea instructions is totally confused.” — “This guy’s name is H.R. McMaster. And given Trump’s conduct, this is going to be so confusing for him at work. They’re going to be like, ‘Excuse me, Mr. President. H. R. wants a word with you.’ And he’s like, ‘I didn’t touch her! I didn’t touch her! Oh, the other H. R. Sorry, yeah, send him in.’” — , discussing Mr. Trump’s new national security adviser The Bits Worth Watching What We’re Excited About on Wednesday Night Valentine’s Day has come and gone, but it’s never too late for a romantic slow jam. Lionel Richie will appear on James Corden’s “Late Late Show” on Wednesday night to promote his coming tour with Mariah Carey. Mr. Corden has a well-known propensity for breaking out in song with his guests. But the Times Late-Night Comedy Committee is sincerely hoping Mr. Richie gets a moment to sing accompaniment. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. BEST OF LATE NIGHT    BEST OF LATE NIGHT    BEST OF LATE NIGHT    BEST OF LATE NIGHT

Photo

Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy.

What do you think of it? What else are you interested in? Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.

Scarborough Frets About Trump

Joe Scarborough has been friendly with President Trump for years, even offering him advice on cabinet picks. But during an appearance on “The Late Show” on Tuesday, Mr. Scarborough, a former Republican congressman and a host of MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” told Stephen Colbert that he was dismayed with how Mr. Trump had handled his first month in office. In fact, he won’t even allow White House adviser Kellyanne Conway on his show anymore.

SCARBOROUGH: It got to a point where Kellyanne would keep coming out, and everything she said was disproven like five minutes later. And it wasn’t disproven by a fact checker. It was somebody else in the administration that would come out and actually say, “Well, actually, no, that’s not true.” COLBERT: There’s a quicker way to say that entire sentence. SCARBOROUGH: Which is? COLBERT: She just lied. SCARBOROUGH: Well, yes, exactly.

When Mr. Colbert asked his guest whether he thought Mr. Trump would make it through a full term, Mr. Scarborough hedged.

SCARBOROUGH: Well, I think if he continues the way he continued the first month, I just don’t think it’s sustainable. And I don’t think it’ll last four years. COLBERT: Or will we just get used to it? Will we just like build a callus on our soul? Our soul will begin to look like a big toe. SCARBOROUGH: Well, I think we’ve already done that. I think we’ve already died a million deaths already the first month.

Mr. Scarborough concluded his conversation with Mr. Colbert by joining Jon Batiste and Stay Human for a performance of “(What’s So Funny ’Bout) Peace, Love and Understanding.”

Putter in Chief

Mr. Colbert and other hosts took some swings at Mr. Trump for his golfing habit, after reports emerged that he had hit the links six times in the first month of his tenure.

“I bet it’s hard to play golf with Trump, because every time he misses a putt, Kellyanne Conway comes out and explains that he actually won that hole.” — JAMES CORDEN “His aides would not confirm that Trump played golf each time he went to the course. Sure, he could be on the course for any reason. We know he loves making fun of people’s handicaps.” — COLBERT

Colbert Pokes Fun at the ‘Old Pope’

Mr. Colbert also poked fun at another world leader, albeit one who seems to be a little less friendly to social media than Mr. Trump: Pope Francis.

“Yesterday the pope gave a speech to students and addressed a vexing theological issue — texting at dinner — pope-ing, ‘When we are at the table, when we are speaking to others on our telephones, it’s the start of war.’ O.K., teens, I hope you’re happy. You and your texting is why we have wars. Now go clean your room before you start a pestilence. Just wait until your Holy Father comes home. This isn’t new. It’s an ancient problem. Even Jesus did it at the Last Supper. ‘Judas totes going to betray me. Frowny face.’”

Joking that Pope Francis “was supposed to be the cool pope,” he quoted from an article in The New York Post and affected an Italian accent for another quip.

“The pope also chided today’s youths for their lack of manners, saying that instead of a friendly ‘good morning,’ they opt for an anonymous ‘ciao, ciao.’ Not only are you teens being rude, you also sound super pretentious. ‘Ciao ciao, lil papa. Ciao, ciao. I have to go zoom-zoom on my scooter for another teensy tiny espresso. Beep, beep! Ciao ciao!’”

The Punchiest Punchlines (Panic Edition)

“The American flag behind Vice President Mike Pence during his speech in Brussels yesterday accidentally featured 51 stars instead of 50, in honor of the new 51st U.S. state: panic.” — SETH MEYERS “At his rally on Saturday, Trump suggested there was a terror attack in Sweden that didn’t really happen. And then the Swedish Embassy asked the State Department for an explanation. You know things are bad when the country that makes Ikea instructions is totally confused.” — JIMMY FALLON “This guy’s name is H.R. McMaster. And given Trump’s conduct, this is going to be so confusing for him at work. They’re going to be like, ‘Excuse me, Mr. President. H. R. wants a word with you.’ And he’s like, ‘I didn’t touch her! I didn’t touch her! Oh, the other H. R. Sorry, yeah, send him in.’” — CORDEN, discussing Mr. Trump’s new national security adviser

The Bits Worth Watching

What We’re Excited About on Wednesday Night

Valentine’s Day has come and gone, but it’s never too late for a romantic slow jam. Lionel Richie will appear on James Corden’s “Late Late Show” on Wednesday night to promote his coming tour with Mariah Carey. Mr. Corden has a well-known propensity for breaking out in song with his guests. But the Times Late-Night Comedy Committee is sincerely hoping Mr. Richie gets a moment to sing without accompaniment.