Hunt master investigated by police after allegedly whipping saboteur with riding crop
Hunt master investigated by police after allegedly whipping saboteur with riding crop 
hunt master has been reported to police after she allegedly attacked a saboteur with a whip. Footage appears to show Lulu Hutley, 56, joint master of the Surrey Union Hunt, lashing out at the male activist with a riding crop. Campaigners said the video was filmed while they were monitoring the huntsmen during a meet in Bramley, Surrey, on Saturday afternoon. Tempers flared when members of Guildford Hunt Saboteurs followed the riding party onto private land because they "suspected they were illegally hunting". rotester Conor Macleod, who is in his 20s and was wearing a backpack, became trapped between a horse and gate. The footage then appears to show Ms Hutley, wearing a distinctive Surrey Union master's collar and riding gear, raise her arm and strike. Collin Skilton, of Guildford Hunt Saboteurs, witnessed the altercation. The 55-year-old, of Dorking, Surrey, said: "The saboteurs followed them on private ground because they suspected they were illegally hunting. "They were asked to leave and they tried to make their way back. Conor, the lad who was hit, got jammed between the fence." He alleged: "She lost her rag on the day. She lost her temper because they tried to hunt without us." he Surrey Union Hunt claimed the clip has been taken out of context and that the hunt saboteurs, some of whom allegedly wore masks, were intimidating. It said in a statement: "You can clearly see Lulu is holding the whip upside-down in order to hit the gate, not the person. "She saw the protester was trapped between the horse and the gate and was trying to make a noise by banging on the gate to get the horse to back off." It added: "It was quick thinking by one of our Masters in a dangerous situation and it's terribly sad it's being misrepresented. "As always, we were following an artificial scent trail, and indeed the protesters would have seen this being laid down by a rider earlier." ulu Hutley declined to comment. Footage of the incident has been supplied to Surrey Police . A force spokesman said it is investigating reports of a common assault at a hunt in Bramley on Saturday. It said: "Officers were called following reports of an incident near Thorncombe Street around 1.30pm. "A man alleged he was assaulted by a man and a woman following a verbal altercation. An investigation is underway and enquiries remain ongoing."

A hunt master has been reported to police after she allegedly attacked a saboteur with a whip.

Footage appears to show Lulu Hutley, 56, joint master of the Surrey Union Hunt, lashing out at the male activist with a riding crop.

Campaigners said the video was filmed while they were monitoring the huntsmen during a meet in Bramley, Surrey, on Saturday afternoon.

Tempers flared when members of Guildford Hunt Saboteurs followed the riding party onto private land because they "suspected they were illegally hunting".