Twitch streamer and father of 3 dies 22 hours into charity stream
Twitch streamer and father of 3 dies 22 hours into charity stream
Twitch streamer Brian "PoshyBrid" Vigneault died of unknown causes Sunday during a charity marathon stream. The 35-year-old is survived by his three children and their mother. Around 4:30 p.m. ET Sunday, Vigneault was about 22 hours into his stream when he left to go for a smoke, reported , and did not return. The Virginia Beach Police Department said officers were called to Vigneault's residence around 7:50 p.m. ET where they pronounced him dead.Â SEE ALSO: 'Counter-Strike' match breaks Twitch's streaming record The Virginia Beach Police Department said it is still investigating the death, but do not suspect foul play. Vigneault was playing and raising money for the Make-A-Wish Foundation. His Twitch profile says he has raised nearly $11,000 for charity organizations helping veterans and children. Vigneault's clan, FAME, posted a message of remembrance on Facebook. Sad news from Virginia Beach, one of the most famous [North American] streamers and a member of our clan Poshybrid has passed away at the age of 35, we just cannot find words to describe how sad is this moment for all of us and for sure this game will not be the same without the legend. Maybe the saddest lines cannot really be written, and the saddest thoughts can not really be uttered, let's all hope that he is in a better place right now and may his soul Rest in Peace, he will never be forgotten... a person who stays in our hearts never dies... A moderator on Vigneault's Twitch channel set up a GoFundMe page to support his family. Our dear friend and fellow streamer, PoshyBrid has passed away on Feb. 19. The family has chose to not release the details of his passing. We feel it is best to just remember him for who he was, and not think about what happened. If you wish to donate to help his three children you can do so, at this GoFundMe page: https://www.gofundme.com/poshybrid/ BONUS: 56-hour groundbreaking face transplant surgery gives man a new face

Twitch streamer Brian "PoshyBrid" Vigneault died of unknown causes Sunday during a charity marathon stream. The 35-year-old is survived by his three children and their mother.

Around 4:30 p.m. ET Sunday, Vigneault was about 22 hours into his stream when he left to go for a smoke, PVP Live reported, and did not return. The Virginia Beach Police Department said officers were called to Vigneault's residence around 7:50 p.m. ET where they pronounced him dead.Â

The Virginia Beach Police Department said it is still investigating the death, but do not suspect foul play.

Vigneault was playing World of Tanks and raising money for the Make-A-Wish Foundation. His Twitch profile says he has raised nearly $11,000 for charity organizations helping veterans and children.

Vigneault's World of Tanks clan, FAME, posted a message of remembrance on Facebook.

Sad news from Virginia Beach, one of the most famous [North American] streamers and a member of our clan Poshybrid has passed away at the age of 35, we just cannot find words to describe how sad is this moment for all of us and for sure this game will not be the same without the legend. Maybe the saddest lines cannot really be written, and the saddest thoughts can not really be uttered, let's all hope that he is in a better place right now and may his soul Rest in Peace, he will never be forgotten... a person who stays in our hearts never dies...

A moderator on Vigneault's Twitch channel set up a GoFundMe page to support his family.