French elections: centrist Bayrou offers alliance with Macron

in Paris    Heavyweight centrist François Bayrou, the eternal “third man” of French politics, has surprised his supporters by offering to stand in an alliance with Emmanuel Macron in April’s presidential elections. Bayrou said the country was at “extreme risk” and needed what he described as an exceptional response. After weeks of suspense, Bayrou, 65, president of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and a veteran of the last three presidential elections, had been expected to announce that he would join the 2017 race. Instead, he launched into what he said was “possibly a project of abnegation”. “I have two paths, to stand myself or to look for an unusual solution,” he told a press conference. “I have decided to offer Emmanuel Macron an alliance. “I have examined for several weeks all the elements allowing me to judge our country and I want to say at what point the seriousness of the situation has hit me. Never in the 50 years past has the democracy in France known such a situation.” He went on to outline his conditions for such an alliance with Macron, whom he described as “brilliant”. “The aim of this alliance will be to give hope [to the French people],” he said. Bayrou, who was an education minister in a centre-right government in the 1990s, said he was aware this path would disappoint some supporters, but he had decided to be “generous and open”. He said he had spoken to Macron a week ago and insisted it should be an “alliance” and not a subjugation of all the centre stood for.

Heavyweight centrist François Bayrou, the eternal “third man” of French politics, has surprised his supporters by offering to stand in an alliance with Emmanuel Macron in April’s presidential elections.



Bayrou said the country was at “extreme risk” and needed what he described as an exceptional response.

After weeks of suspense, Bayrou, 65, president of the Democratic Movement (MoDem) and a veteran of the last three presidential elections, had been expected to announce that he would join the 2017 race.

Instead, he launched into what he said was “possibly a project of abnegation”.

“I have two paths, to stand myself or to look for an unusual solution,” he told a press conference. “I have decided to offer Emmanuel Macron an alliance.



“I have examined for several weeks all the elements allowing me to judge our country and I want to say at what point the seriousness of the situation has hit me. Never in the 50 years past has the democracy in France known such a situation.”



He went on to outline his conditions for such an alliance with Macron, whom he described as “brilliant”.

“The aim of this alliance will be to give hope [to the French people],” he said.

Bayrou, who was an education minister in a centre-right government in the 1990s, said he was aware this path would disappoint some supporters, but he had decided to be “generous and open”.



He said he had spoken to Macron a week ago and insisted it should be an “alliance” and not a subjugation of all the centre stood for.

More soon …

