Instagram's New Update Is a Game-Changer
Instagram's New Update Is a Game-Changer
You ever sat agonizing about which photo from a party perfectly captures the event because you didn't want to throw a gang of shots on your Instagram feed? Thanks to today's huge update , you can now add up to 10 photos or videos(!) into a single Instagram post. Here's how it works: "When uploading to your feed, you’ll see a new icon to select multiple photos and videos. It’s easy to control exactly how your post will look. You can tap and hold to change the order, apply a filter to everything at once or edit one by one. These posts have a single caption and are square-only for now. On your profile grid, you’ll notice the first photo or video of your post has a little icon, which means there’s more to see." It looks like it's as simple as it is in the video up above. When you're scrolling your Instagram timeline, you'll see some blue dots at the bottom of an image; that means that you can scroll to see more images or videos within that post. This update is part of Instagram version 10.9, and available in the iOS store and on Google Play right now. Have at it.

You ever sat agonizing about which photo from a party perfectly captures the event because you didn't want to throw a gang of shots on your Instagram feed? Thanks to today's huge update, you can now add up to 10 photos or videos(!) into a single Instagram post.

Here's how it works: "When uploading to your feed, you’ll see a new icon to select multiple photos and videos. It’s easy to control exactly how your post will look. You can tap and hold to change the order, apply a filter to everything at once or edit one by one. These posts have a single caption and are square-only for now. On your profile grid, you’ll notice the first photo or video of your post has a little icon, which means there’s more to see."

It looks like it's as simple as it is in the video up above. When you're scrolling your Instagram timeline, you'll see some blue dots at the bottom of an image; that means that you can scroll to see more images or videos within that post.

This update is part of Instagram version 10.9, and available in the iOS store and on Google Play right now. Have at it.