Schumer: GOP Lawmakers Have 'Real Problems' With Trump, Will 'Break' Away

Schumer: GOP Lawmakers Have 'Real Problems' With Trump, Will 'Break' Away // // // // // Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) said his Republican colleagues have "real problems" with President Donald Trump and predicted they will eventually go public with their disapproval. "My prediction is [if] he keeps up on this path - which is likely, I don't think he'll change - within three or fourth months, you're gonna see a lot of Republicans breaking with him. That's the hope of America," he said. Schumer said he's been told "quietly" by GOP lawmakers around D.C. about their opposition to Trump "doing a lot of things against what American is all about." Joy Behar asked why these Republicans are not speaking out if they feel this way. Schumer said they're "party loyalists" and are happy with Trump's Supreme Court pick Neil Gorsuch. Schumer also called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a close ally of Trump throughout the campaign, to recuse himself from the FBI investigation into Russia's interference in the election. He added that the question remains whether Trump participated in the effort. Sen. Al Franken (D-MN) made headlines last week by revealing that Republican senators were privately expressing concern about Trump's mental state. The "Outnumbered" hosts reacted this afternoon, with Sandra Smith saying it's "difficult" to see Schumer appear to be rooting for the new president to fail. "He got in office. We have a long way to go," she said. Watch his comments above and reaction from "Outnumbered" below.

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) said his Republican colleagues have "real problems" with President Donald Trump and predicted they will eventually go public with their disapproval.

"My prediction is [if] he keeps up on this path - which is likely, I don't think he'll change - within three or fourth months, you're gonna see a lot of Republicans breaking with him. That's the hope of America," he said.

Schumer said he's been told "quietly" by GOP lawmakers around D.C. about their opposition to Trump "doing a lot of things against what American is all about."

Joy Behar asked why these Republicans are not speaking out if they feel this way. Schumer said they're "party loyalists" and are happy with Trump's Supreme Court pick Neil Gorsuch.

Schumer also called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a close ally of Trump throughout the campaign, to recuse himself from the FBI investigation into Russia's interference in the election.

He added that the question remains whether Trump participated in the effort.

Sen. Al Franken (D-MN) made headlines last week by revealing that Republican senators were privately expressing concern about Trump's mental state.

The "Outnumbered" hosts reacted this afternoon, with Sandra Smith saying it's "difficult" to see Schumer appear to be rooting for the new president to fail.

"He just got in office. We have a long way to go," she said.

Watch his comments above and reaction from "Outnumbered" below.

'More Dangerous Than Hitler'?! Tucker Battles Anti-Trump Protester

Maxine Waters on Trump's Cabinet: They're a 'Bunch of Scumbags'

Breaking News?! NBC Reports Trump Presidency Will Not Be Shortest Ever