Arrival 'sucked' and Meryl Streep performed 'like a clown' – what one Oscars voter really thinks
Arrival 'sucked' and Meryl Streep performed 'like a clown' – what one Oscars voter really thinks 
ne of the voters for this year's Academy Awards has broken ranks and anonymously revealed their true feelings about the nominated films – and it doesn't always make for pretty reading. In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter , the Academy member (one of 6,687) said Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi Arrival "just sucked", Meryl Streep had performed "like a clown" [in Florence Foster Jenkins] and that La La Land was "not all that deep or memorable". Oh, and Jackie, the post JFK-assassination drama, was "shallow crap". he anonymous voter, a female member of the 1,158-person actors branch of the Academy, also said that David Mackenzie's Hell or High Water should win Best Picture, describing it as "a true American classic", and that Viggo Mortensen (Captain Fantastic) and Ruth Negga (Loving) should be crowned Best Actor and Best Actress at this Sunday's 79th Academy Awards. Speaking about the Best Picture category, the Academy member dismissed Arrival and Fences , "loved the first half of Lion", and described La La Land as "tremendously enjoyable, but not all that deep or memorable". "That left me with Manchester by the Sea and Hell or High Water, two compassionate movies that were incredibly well written, directed and acted," she said. "Hell or High Water isn't going to win, but it was my favorite, and it will be remembered as a true American classic." ther fruity comments were reserved for Denzel Washington, nominated in the Best Actor category for Fences, and Isabelle Huppert, nominated in the Best Actress category for Elle. ashington, the voter said, "has played this role a million times before, and he got the Tony for it – I'm sure he was amazing onstage, but he didn't do anything unexpected on film". Huppert, meanwhile, was described as "an ice-cold actress [..] when you get attacked, beaten and raped [as her character does in Elle], you're not the same person afterward, but she was, and I wanted to slap her to try to get a reaction out of her." Interestingly, the Academy member also refused to vote for Viola Davis [Fences] in the Best Supporting Actress category in protest at her not being nominated for Best Actress . "I immediately ruled out Viola Davis – don't get me wrong, I love her and I think she's wonderful, but that's my protest vote. "She should have been in the lead actress category, and when the studios put these actresses who are clearly the lead in the supporting category – like they did with Alicia Vikander [The Danish Girl] last year, even though she had more lines than the guy [Eddie Redmayne]. That really irks me."

One of the voters for this year's Academy Awards has broken ranks and anonymously revealed their true feelings about the nominated films – and it doesn't always make for pretty reading.

In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, the Academy member (one of 6,687) said Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi Arrival "just sucked", Meryl Streep had performed "like a clown" [in Florence Foster Jenkins] and that La La Land was "not all that deep or memorable". Oh, and Jackie, the post JFK-assassination drama, was "shallow crap".