Ersan Ilyasova Traded to Hawks; 76ers Receive Tiago Splitter, More
Ersan Ilyasova Traded to Hawks; 76ers Receive Tiago Splitter, More
The Philadelphia 76ers agreed Wednesday to send power forward Ersan Ilyasova to the Atlanta Hawks in exchange for center Tiago Splitter, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski . ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst confirmed the news and reported the Hawks will send a second-round pick to the Sixers. The two sides will also swap second-round picks, per Windhorst. Citing a source, Wojnarowski reported the Sixers nabbed Atlanta's 2017 second-round selection, which was previously acquired from the Miami Heat. Splitter has yet to suit up this season due to calf and hamstring injuries, so taking on his expiring contract was essentially the cost of doing business for the Sixers to grab an extra second-round draft pick. Furthermore, Sixers beat writer Derek Bodner reported the team has yet to decide if it will keep Splitter on the roster or waive him once the trade is finalized. When it comes to Philadelphia's revised roster, Dario Saric projects as head coach Brett Brown's starting power forward alongside Joel Embiid until Ben Simmons (foot) debuts, as The Vertical's Chris Mannix noted: Philadelphia clearing more playing time for fast rising rookie Dario Saric. https://t.co/A4zZBRXap9 For the Hawks, Ilyasova represents a welcome bench addition at power forward behind Paul Millsap. Although he's been streaky at times throughout the 2016-17 season, Ilyasova is averaging a robust 14.8 points on 44.0 percent shooting from the field, including 35.9 percent shooting from three, in 27.3 minutes a night. It should also encourage the Hawks that the Sixers' offensive rating was 3.1 points better per 100 possessions with Ilyasova on the floor. And considering the Hawks' bench ranks 18th with a cumulative three-point percentage of 34.4, adding a knockdown shooter like Ilyasova who's converted 38.1 percent of his catch-and-shoot triples this season should give them the boost necessary to compete for home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Stacy Revere/Getty Images

The Philadelphia 76ers agreed Wednesday to send power forward Ersan Ilyasova to the Atlanta Hawks in exchange for center Tiago Splitter, according to The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski.

ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst confirmed the news and reported the Hawks will send a second-round pick to the Sixers. The two sides will also swap second-round picks, per Windhorst.

Citing a source, Wojnarowski reported the Sixers nabbed Atlanta's 2017 second-round selection, which was previously acquired from the Miami Heat.

Splitter has yet to suit up this season due to calf and hamstring injuries, so taking on his expiring contract was essentially the cost of doing business for the Sixers to grab an extra second-round draft pick.

Furthermore, Sixers beat writer Derek Bodner reported the team has yet to decide if it will keep Splitter on the roster or waive him once the trade is finalized.

When it comes to Philadelphia's revised roster, Dario Saric projects as head coach Brett Brown's starting power forward alongside Joel Embiid until Ben Simmons (foot) debuts, as The Vertical's Chris Mannix noted:

For the Hawks, Ilyasova—whose contract also expires at season's end—represents a welcome bench addition at power forward behind Paul Millsap.

Although he's been streaky at times throughout the 2016-17 season, Ilyasova is averaging a robust 14.8 points on 44.0 percent shooting from the field, including 35.9 percent shooting from three, in 27.3 minutes a night.

It should also encourage the Hawks that the Sixers' offensive rating was 3.1 points better per 100 possessions with Ilyasova on the floor.

And considering the Hawks' bench ranks 18th with a cumulative three-point percentage of 34.4, adding a knockdown shooter like Ilyasova who's converted 38.1 percent of his catch-and-shoot triples this season should give them the boost necessary to compete for home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs.

Stats courtesy of NBA.com.