19 Times Kris Jenner Savagely Roasted The Hell Out Of Her Family
19 Times Kris Jenner Savagely Roasted The Hell Out Of Her Family
When she was so ruthless that even Kim was left speechless: And when she literally sipped tea as she shaded Kim’s short-lived marriage: When she wasn’t feeling Kylie’s hairdo: When she clapped right back at her mom about the simple pleasures in life: When she put Kim on blast: Kim: “I want to do a documentary on my life and show all of this.” Kris: “Oh, what a great idea, maybe call it “ When Khloé thought she had the final word, but Kris came back swinging: And when Kris threw it right back at Khloé while Kylie looked on: When Kris had her priorities straight as Kendall was discussing her ~look~: Kendall: “See how my boobs look really low?” Kris: “Or you could look at it as more room for diamonds.” When Kris was having none of Kim’s B.S.: But at the same time, she knew how to let loose a little: When Kris wasn’t even on screen, but Khloé shared how savage she was when she was little: “My mom cursed so much when we were little, I thought my name was Fuck.” When Kris was all of us when it comes to carbs: Kris: “Let me have that bread.” Rob: “No.” Kris: “Give me the fucking bread.” When Kris put her role as momager ahead of her faith: Khloé: “We have to say a prayer first.” Kris: “Hold on. Dear Heavenly Father…Amen.” *Kris picks up phone*: “What’s up Kim?” When she left Kim shell-shocked: When Kris wasn’t even afraid to roast herself: When she wasn’t afraid to take Yeezus’ name in vain: When she made a snide comment to no one in particular at a meal: When she knew how to act under pressure in a crisis: And finally, when even her home decorating is savage AF: Yes, she really does this .   21 Insults On "The Golden Girls" That Were...    Which Disney Animated Movies Need To Be Forgotten?  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.