Crown cuts dividend amid VIP gambling plunge



Crown cuts dividend amid VIP gambling plunge

Updated

James Packer's Crown Resorts has reported a fall in underlying revenue amid a slump in VIP gamblers at its Australian casinos, cutting its regular dividend while announcing a special one-off payout.

Crown's statutory net profit after tax jumped 75 per cent to $359 million, mainly on gains from the sale of shares in Melco Crown Entertainment, its Macau venture.

However, "normalised" profit fell 9 per cent to $191 million, on a significant fall in revenues.

Punters lost around 13 per cent less at Crown's Australian casinos, with high-rollers accounting for almost all of the decline.

Crown revealed a 47 per cent plunge in VIP revenue at its flagship Melbourne casino.

In Perth, the company's casino saw a 39 per cent fall in VIP revenue, but also a 4 per cent decline in main gaming floor revenue as that state's downturn reduces consumer spending.

Despite the plunge in VIP revenue, Crown said it is pushing ahead with its plans for a "six-star" hotel and casino at Barangaroo in Sydney, which it said is due for completion by 2021.

Crown's wagering and online gaming operations also posted a loss of $3 million.

The company has committed to try and pay a dividend of 60 cents a year on an ongoing basis, down from last year's total payout of 72.5 cents.

However, Crown will pay a special dividend of 83 cents a share and announced its intention to buy back $500 million worth of its shares, subject to regulatory approvals.

The special dividend and buyback have pleased investors, pushing Crown shares up 6.9 per cent to $12.18 by 11:00am (AEDT).

There are also significant leadership changes afoot at Crown, with long-serving chief executive Rowen Craigie stepping down after almost a quarter of a century with the company in various roles.

He will be replaced by Crown's executive chairman, John Alexander, who will also retain his current duties.

Topics: company-news, gambling, australia, macao

First posted