Patriots coach could be called as witness in Aaron Hernandez murder trial
Patriots coach could be called as witness in Aaron Hernandez murder trial
New England Patriots’ head coach Bill Belichick watches his team warm up before the start of Super Bowl LI against the Atlanta Falcons in Houston, Texas, U.S., Feb. 5, 2017.                Tweet     Stumble     Email   New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick could be called as a witness in the double murder trial of Aaron Hernandez , according to court documents released Wednesday, CBS Boston reports . Belichick’s name appeared on a list of possible witnesses filed Tuesday by Hernandez’s defense. Hernandez played for Belichick and the Patriots from 2010 to 2013. The former star tight end is being tried in the drive-by slayings of 29-year-old Daniel de Abreu and 28-year-old Safiro Furtado. Both men were shot to death as they left a Boston nightclub back in 2012. Prosecutors say Hernandez shot them after one spilled a drink on him at a club. Hernandez has pleaded not guilty. Did Aaron Hernandez's defense help convict the ex-NFL star? Hernandez will get an automatic appeal of his life sentence for murder. The former New England Patriots tight end was convicted Wednesday in the ... There are dozens of potential civilian and expert witnesses listed on the new defense filing. “William Belichick, Hingham, MA” is No. 11. Aaron Hernandez trial Former New England Patriots football player Aaron Hernandez guilty of first-degree murder Earlier in the month, a defense motion said Patriots offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels may testify on the possible meanings of some of Hernandez’s tattoos. WBZ-TV Sports Director Steve Burton is also listed as a potential witness in the court paperwork. The documents cite Steve’s 2011 interview with Hernandez. Jury selection is underway. Opening statements are scheduled March 1. Hernandez grew up in Connecticut. He is serving a life sentence in the 2013 killing of Odin Lloyd, who was dating the sister of Hernandez’s fiancee.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

BOSTON -- New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick could be called as a witness in the double murder trial of Aaron Hernandez, according to court documents released Wednesday, CBS Boston reports.

Belichick’s name appeared on a list of possible witnesses filed Tuesday by Hernandez’s defense.

Hernandez played for Belichick and the Patriots from 2010 to 2013. The former star tight end is being tried in the drive-by slayings of 29-year-old Daniel de Abreu and 28-year-old Safiro Furtado. Both men were shot to death as they left a Boston nightclub back in 2012. Prosecutors say Hernandez shot them after one spilled a drink on him at a club. Hernandez has pleaded not guilty.

There are dozens of potential civilian and expert witnesses listed on the new defense filing. “William Belichick, Hingham, MA” is No. 11.



Earlier in the month, a defense motion said Patriots offensive coordinator Josh McDaniels may testify on the possible meanings of some of Hernandez’s tattoos.



WBZ-TV Sports Director Steve Burton is also listed as a potential witness in the court paperwork. The documents cite Steve’s 2011 interview with Hernandez.

Jury selection is underway. Opening statements are scheduled March 1.



Hernandez grew up in Connecticut. He is serving a life sentence in the 2013 killing of Odin Lloyd, who was dating the sister of Hernandez’s fiancee.