Rajkummar's Newton Gets A Standing Ovation, Bieber's Concert's Ticket Prices & More From Ent!
Rajkummar's Newton Gets A Standing Ovation, Bieber's Concert's Ticket Prices & More From Ent!
Rajkummar's Newton Gets A Standing Ovation, Bieber's Concert's Ticket Prices & More From Ent! 1. Rajkumar Rao’s Newton Gets A Standing Ovation At Berlin Film Festival & We Can't Wait To See It His latest film Newton was premiered at the 67th Berlin Film Festival, and no points for guessing that the film was highly applauded there. After the screening, the movie not only won International Federation of Art Cinemas (CICAE), competition among 43 films, but it also won a standing ovation from the jury. A long question-and-answer session for the film was also held post the screening. 2. Bigg Boss Fans, Rejoice! Now You Can Stay Inside The House, Perform Tasks And Get Filmed If you are a die-hard Bigg Boss fan, and you always wanted to stay inside the house, away from the outside world, and experience what the contestants go through, you can do that quite easily now. No, we are not talking about the audition process for the next season. You can actually go in for a fun trip inside the house with all your friends or family, for even just a day. 3. ‘Dangal’ Actress Fatima Sana Shaikh To Work With Aamir Khan Once Again In ‘Thugs of Hindostan’ Grapevine is abuzz with rumours that the actress is under consideration to play the female lead role in Thugs of Hindostan that stars Aamir Khan as the male lead and Amitabh Bachchan in a prominent role. 4. Fret Not People, The Max Price Of Justin Bieber's Concert Tickets Is Not Rs 76K But Rs 25,200! Even though the concert is months away, fans are already pumping with excitement. However, the speculations of ticket prices going all the way upto Rs 76K proved to be a dampener for some but fret not, for it was all rumours. Turns out the base price of the tickets start from Rs 4,060 and it goes up to Rs 25, 200 not Rs 76,000. 5. At One Point, Saif Considered Changing Taimur's Name Because He Didn't Want Him To Be Unpopular Interestingly, in a recent interview with Times Of India, Saif revealed how his family at one point thought of changing the name. He said, "Kareena was a little against it and she said, 'People respect you for your opinion and you can't'... So I said, yeah, but it's not about people. I don't want him to get unpopular. And I still might, maybe when he's one or two, I might change his name in a while, it's still sinking in, what to do."

1. Rajkumar Rao’s Newton Gets A Standing Ovation At Berlin Film Festival & We Can't Wait To See It

alchetron

His latest film Newton was premiered at the 67th Berlin Film Festival, and no points for guessing that the film was highly applauded there. After the screening, the movie not only won International Federation of Art Cinemas (CICAE), competition among 43 films, but it also won a standing ovation from the jury. A long question-and-answer session for the film was also held post the screening.

2. Bigg Boss Fans, Rejoice! Now You Can Stay Inside The House, Perform Tasks And Get Filmed

Colors

If you are a die-hard Bigg Boss fan, and you always wanted to stay inside the house, away from the outside world, and experience what the contestants go through, you can do that quite easily now. No, we are not talking about the audition process for the next season. You can actually go in for a fun trip inside the house with all your friends or family, for even just a day.

3. ‘Dangal’ Actress Fatima Sana Shaikh To Work With Aamir Khan Once Again In ‘Thugs of Hindostan’

Grapevine is abuzz with rumours that the actress is under consideration to play the female lead role in Thugs of Hindostan that stars Aamir Khan as the male lead and Amitabh Bachchan in a prominent role.

4. Fret Not People, The Max Price Of Justin Bieber's Concert Tickets Is Not Rs 76K But Rs 25,200!

Even though the concert is months away, fans are already pumping with excitement. However, the speculations of ticket prices going all the way upto Rs 76K proved to be a dampener for some but fret not, for it was all rumours. Turns out the base price of the tickets start from Rs 4,060 and it goes up to Rs 25, 200 not Rs 76,000.

5. At One Point, Saif Considered Changing Taimur's Name Because He Didn't Want Him To Be Unpopular

tribune

Interestingly, in a recent interview with Times Of India, Saif revealed how his family at one point thought of changing the name. He said, "Kareena was a little against it and she said, 'People respect you for your opinion and you can't'... So I said, yeah, but it's not about people. I don't want him to get unpopular. And I still might, maybe when he's one or two, I might change his name in a while, it's still sinking in, what to do."

Don't Miss 6.9 K SHARES 14.1 K SHARES 70.4 K SHARES 34.8 K SHARES 13.9 K SHARES