Trump administration reverses transgender bathroom guidance
Trump administration reverses transgender bathroom guidance
Shares               The Trump administration overturned Wednesday night Obama-era guidance that allowed transgender students to use public bathrooms and locker rooms that match their gender identity. Letters sent by the Justice and Education department to schools claimed that the directive caused confusion and lawsuits over its enforcement. Anti-bullying safeguards will not be affected, according to the letter. Earlier Wednesday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said of the departments of education and justice, "They have been reviewing the guidance that was signed, the basis by which it was put through, and I think there have been several areas of concern, both legal and procedural, that they have been discussing." Spicer added later, "We now have to decide whether or not this administration wants to continue that track that the [Obama administration] were on." Spicer also batted down reports that Education Secretary Betsy DeVos was not on board with this action.     Last April, Trump weighed in on the North Carolina "bathroom law" -- HB2 -- that banned people from using public bathrooms or locker rooms that don't match the sex on their birth certificate. State lawmakers should “leave it the way it is,” Trump said in an interview with NBC , adding that people should "use the bathroom they feel is appropriate." "The president's made it clear throughout the campaign that he's a firm believer in states' rights and certain issues like this are not best dealt with at the federal level," Spicer said today. Responding to early reports in the media about the Trump administration reversing those rules regarding transgender bathrooms, the Human Rights Campaign released a statement on Monday. “Transgender young people face tragically high rates of discrimination and bullying, and they need a government that will stand up for them -- not attack them," HRC President Chad Griffin said in the statement. "It's shocking that this kind of harm would even be a subject of debate for the president," Griffin added. "We call on Trump to immediately and permanently affirm the Obama Administration’s guidance and protect transgender students." Shares                  Trump administration reverses transgender bathroom guidance   Trump confidante says administration has 'got to slow down,' stop media war   New EPA head's emails indicate close ties to oil and gas producers   WH readies first Trump budget that could take aim at popular programs   4 parts of the new DHS memos that raise flags for immigrant rights advocates   How Trump's policies are changing immigration enforcement   No, Obama isn't planning a coup against President Trump   GOP town hall backlash is 'hybrid' of real concern, 'manufactured' anger, WH says   A look at Trump's Cabinet picks   Top Trump aide calls Guantanamo Bay 'incredibly important intelligence asset'   The Note: The Trump administration's new immigration rules   Dakota pipeline builder says oil could flow in as little as 2 weeks   House speaker gets firsthand look at US-Mexico border   DNC race remains tight as energized Democrats combat Trump

The Trump administration overturned Wednesday night Obama-era guidance that allowed transgender students to use public bathrooms and locker rooms that match their gender identity.

Letters sent by the Justice and Education department to schools claimed that the directive caused confusion and lawsuits over its enforcement. Anti-bullying safeguards will not be affected, according to the letter.

Earlier Wednesday, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said of the departments of education and justice, "They have been reviewing the guidance that was signed, the basis by which it was put through, and I think there have been several areas of concern, both legal and procedural, that they have been discussing."

Spicer added later, "We now have to decide whether or not this administration wants to continue that track that the [Obama administration] were on."

Spicer also batted down reports that Education Secretary Betsy DeVos was not on board with this action.

Last April, Trump weighed in on the North Carolina "bathroom law" -- HB2 -- that banned people from using public bathrooms or locker rooms that don't match the sex on their birth certificate.

State lawmakers should “leave it the way it is,” Trump said in an interview with NBC, adding that people should "use the bathroom they feel is appropriate."

"The president's made it clear throughout the campaign that he's a firm believer in states' rights and certain issues like this are not best dealt with at the federal level," Spicer said today.

Responding to early reports in the media about the Trump administration reversing those rules regarding transgender bathrooms, the Human Rights Campaign released a statement on Monday.

“Transgender young people face tragically high rates of discrimination and bullying, and they need a government that will stand up for them -- not attack them," HRC President Chad Griffin said in the statement.

"It's shocking that this kind of harm would even be a subject of debate for the president," Griffin added. "We call on Trump to immediately and permanently affirm the Obama Administration’s guidance and protect transgender students."