Chris Brown's Ex Claims He Threatened To Kill Her
Chris Brown's Ex Claims He Threatened To Kill Her
That same year, he told Tyra Banks that he treats women differently because of what he experienced. ______ ______ This Is Not A Love Story: Examining A Month Of Deadly Domestic Violence In America Trump’s Election Raises Fears Of Increased Violence Against Women The Children Who Saw Too Much Behind The Photos That Changed How America Saw Domestic Violence We’re Missing The Big Picture On Mass Shootings Woman Accused Of Murdering Her Abusive Ex Goes Free After Almost 3 Years Behind Bars She Was Leaving Her Emotionally Abusive Husband. Now The Whole Family Is Dead. 14-Year-Old Girl Accused Of Killing Her Allegedly Abusive Father ALSO ON HUFFPOST Shocking Domestic Violence Statistics       Share this slide:       MORE:

Eight years after he brutally assaulted Rihanna in a widely publicized incident, Chris Brown has been accused of physically abusing another woman: His ex-girlfriend Karrueche Tran.

On Feb.17, Tran filed a temporary domestic violence restraining order against the Grammy-winning R&B singer, alleging that he pushed her down the stairs, punched her in the stomach and threatened to shoot her.

In the court documents, obtained by RadarOnline, Tran stated that as recently as this month, Brown was texting her death threats, and told other people that he was going to kill her. The couple split in 2015.

“He said if no one else can have me then he’s going to ‘take me out,’” she wrote, adding that Brown had also been harassing and threatening her friends. “This is why I’ve decided to finally go through with the restraining order because he is starting to take action on his words.”

The restraining order instructs Brown to stay 100 yards away from Tran, refrain from contacting her directly or indirectly, and to surrender any firearms he possesses. Tran’s mother and brother are also protected under the order.

“They are my family and I don’t want them at risk,” Tran wrote.

Brown’s lawyer, Mark Geragos, did not return a request for comment. A court date on the restraining order is scheduled for March 9.

Also in the court documents, Tran accused Brown of physically abusing her a few years prior, but offered few details. She said that Brown punched her in the stomach twice, and pushed her down the stairs. She indicated that police were not called and no one else was present.

It’s possible that Brown was still on probation stemming from his assault on Rihanna at the time of the alleged violent incidents.

In 2009, Brown, who was 19, assaulted his then-girlfriend Rihanna inside a car after leaving a pre-Grammy party. According to the police statement, Brown punched Rihanna in the face repeatedly, smashed her head into the window, put her in a headlock, and constricted her breathing until she began to lose consciousness. He also bit her ear and her fingers, the statement said, and threatened to kill her.

“He had no soul in his eyes, just blank. He was clearly blacked out,” Rihanna said of the assault in an interview with Diane Sawyer later that year. “There was no person when I looked to him.”

Brown pleaded guilty to felony assault and was sentenced to five years probation and 180 days of community service. A judge officially ended his probation in March 2015.

In interviews conducted early on in his career, Brown talked about seeing his mom abused by his stepfather, and the effect of domestic violence on his childhood.

“He made me terrified all the time, terrified like I had to pee on myself. I remember one night he made her nose bleed. I was crying and thinking, ‘I’m just gonna go crazy on him one day,’” he told Giant magazine in 2007.

That same year, he told Tyra Banks that he treats women differently because of what he experienced.

“I don’t want to go through the same thing or put a woman through the same thing that that person put my mom through,” he said.

______

Melissa Jeltsen covers domestic violence and other issues related to women’s health, safety and security. Tips? Feedback? Send an email or follow her on Twitter.

______