Kim Jong-nam murder: North Korea blames Malaysia for death of 'DPRK Citizen'



Kim Jong-nam murder: North Korea blames Malaysia for death of 'DPRK Citizen'

Updated

North Korea blames Malaysia for the death of one of its citizens and has accused it of an "unfriendly attitude" in a scenario drawn up by South Korea, according to Pyongyang's state-run KCNA news agency.

The agency said north Korea accuses Pyongyang agents of assassinating the North Korean leader's half-brother.

Malaysia had initially told North Korea the person bearing a diplomatic passport had died after suffering a heart attack at Kuala Lumpur airport on February 13, KCNA news agency said.

KCNA, citing a spokesman for a state committee, said Malaysia quickly changed its position and started to complicate the matter after reports surfaced in South Korea the man was poisoned to death.

"What merits more serous attention is the fact that the unjust acts of the Malaysian side are timed to coincide with the anti-DPRK conspiratorial racket launched by the South Korean authorities," KCNA said, using the North's formal name of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.

KCNA, in the first official media report of the killing, did not name Kim Jong-nam as the person who died on the way to the hospital or acknowledge he was the estranged half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, referring to him only as "a citizen of the DPRK".

"The biggest responsibility for his death rests with the Government of Malaysia, as the citizen of the DPRK died in its land," the report said.

On Wednesday, Malaysian police named a North Korean diplomat along with a state airline official who are wanted for questioning over the murder of Kim Jong-nam, the 46-year-old older half-brother of Kim Jong-un.

Malaysia's police chief, Khalid Abu Bakar, said both officials were in Malaysia but could not confirm if they were in the North Korean embassy.

So far, police have identified a total of eight North Koreans suspected of being linked to the killing. One is in custody.

Malaysia has denied North Korea's request for the body to be handed over to its embassy directly, saying it would be released to the next of kin, although none had come forward.

The KCNA report accused Malaysia of breaking international law by conducting autopsies on a person bearing a diplomatic passport.

Reuters

Topics: world-politics, murder-and-manslaughter, crime, korea-democratic-people-s-republic-of, malaysia

First posted