Business investment 'disappointing', pointing to weak GDP growth



Business investment 'disappointing', pointing to weak GDP growth

Posted

Business investment continues to decline as new mining developments continue to tail off, but companies increased their expected spending plans for the current financial year.

The Bureau of Statistics estimated that new capital spending fell by 2.1 per cent to $27.6 billion on a seasonally adjusted basis from September to December, the eighth fall in the last nine quarters.

That is more than the 1 per cent drop forecast by economists surveyed by Reuters.

Investment fell by 15.5 per cent over the year to December, with spending on buildings and structures down by just over a quarter.

However, spending on equipment, plant and machinery rose by 1.5 per cent over the year and by 0.4 per cent over the quarter.

Investment by mining firms on buildings and structures fell by nearly 12 per cent over the quarter, but manufacturing companies raised their spending by nearly 8 per cent.

Mining companies increased their spending on equipment, plant and machinery by 6.5 per cent over the quarter.

Companies said they expect to invest more than they previously estimated in the 2017 financial year, with businesses estimating they would spend $112 billion, compared to the previous forecast of $107 billion thanks to an upgrade by the services industry.

TD Securities said the investment estimates for next financial year were disappointing at a planned $81 billion, but it also said if the improvement in business confidence and conditions is sustained, it expects "decent upgrades in the next survey."

Australia lags on business investment

New business investment has been falling since 2012, when the mining boom peaked, and resources companies have been winding back their spending on new projects, while existing projects are being completed.

JP Morgan economist Ben Jarman told Reuters that plant, machinery and equipment investment was up slightly and he expected business investment to be a positive influence on the economic growth figures out next week.

But Mr Jarman said that next year's planned investment was somewhat weak and put no pressure on the Reserve Bank to lower rates.

"The firm's first estimate of next fiscal year spending were on the softer side though. Even though the mining capex drag is fading away, the recovery in non-mining is really tepid at this point," Mr Jarman said.

"We are seeing global business sentiment surveys rally quite a bit but it doesn't appear like Australian firms are following suit with their capex plans at the moment."

RBC Capital Markets head of fixed income and currencies strategy for Australia and New Zealand Su Lin Ong said the figures were somewhat disappointing.

"Business investment finished 2016 on a lacklustre note, with spending plans confirming the waning drag on activity as mining capex projects finish up, but also suggesting only very modest improvement in the key non mining sector," she wrote in a note.

"In that sense, the forward plans are disappointing, especially given the strength in business conditions and confidence in early 2017 when this survey was taken.

"It may well challenge the RBA's central view for the firmer, albeit modest, business investment ahead and continue to test its patience on this front."

Future plans key as non-mining investment still stagnant

Westpac economist Andrew Hanlan said the improvement in planned investment for 2016-2017 likely occurred because the uncertainty over July's Federal Election had passed and the economy appeared to be emerging from the soft patch seen mid last year.

He said higher commodity prices, stronger global conditions and more optimistic financial markets after the election of US President Donald Trump contributed to the pick up in expected spending.

The Reserve Bank estimates that the mining downturn is 90 per cent over.

National Australia Bank, which does regular business confidence surveys, said the headline fall in business investment should

be ignored.

"The prospective lift in the non-mining components of the survey will be encouraging for the RBA which has been patiently awaiting a lift in non-mining investment intentions in the data," NAB economist, Tapas Strickland noted.

Capital Economics chief economist for Australia and New Zealand Paul Dales said investment outside of the mining industry is not improving fast enough, despite higher commodity prices boosting national income and that could weigh on future economic growth.

"If commodity prices remain high, then businesses may yet become more upbeat," he predicted.

"But even in that scenario, we suspect they will pocket the money rather than boost capex.

"Without a strong rebound in non-mining business investment, Australia will continue to grow slower than its potential rate of 2.8 per cent for a few years yet."

Topics: economic-trends, mining-industry, manufacturing, australia