The Intriguing Trailer Of Rajkummar Rao's 'Trapped' Will Leave You With Many Thoughts
The Intriguing Trailer Of Rajkummar Rao's 'Trapped' Will Leave You With Many Thoughts
The Intriguing Trailer Of Rajkummar Rao's 'Trapped' Will Leave You With Many Thoughts At its grand premiere at the 18th Jio MAMI Mumbai International Film Festival, Rajkummar Rao's Trapped had received a phenomenal response from the audience. After films like Lootera and Udaan, Vikramaditya Motwane's is based on a man, who gets trapped in his high-rise apartment with no point of contact with the outside world. The gripping trailer of the film has not just captured our attention but has definitely left us wanting for more.  ‪Get ready to experience the mad survival spirit behind Trapped! Here's @rajkummar_rao in action on the main poster of our film!‬ A post shared by Phantom (@fuhsephantom) on Feb 21, 2017 at 2:32am PST   Considering how versatile and talented Rajkummar Rao is, this film definitely remains one of the most awaited films of the year. (Also read: 7 Reasons Why Actor Rajkummar Rao Deserves More Limelight Than He Actually Gets )

At its grand premiere at the 18th Jio MAMI Mumbai International Film Festival, Rajkummar Rao's Trapped had received a phenomenal response from the audience. After films like Lootera and Udaan, Vikramaditya Motwane's Trapped is based on a man, who gets trapped in his high-rise apartment with no point of contact with the outside world.

YouTube Screengrab

The gripping trailer of the film has not just captured our attention but has definitely left us wanting for more.

‪Get ready to experience the mad survival spirit behind Trapped! Here's @rajkummar_rao in action on the main poster of our film!‬ A post shared by Phantom (@fuhsephantom) on Feb 21, 2017 at 2:32am PST

Considering how versatile and talented Rajkummar Rao is, this film definitely remains one of the most awaited films of the year.

YouTube Screengrab/Phantom Films

(Also read: 7 Reasons Why Actor Rajkummar Rao Deserves More Limelight Than He Actually Gets)

Based on Shaurya (Rajkummar Rao) who gets locked in his Mumbai apartment for 25 days without food and water. Will he survive? But, how will he? To get all the answers, watch the gripping trailer right here.

Don't Miss 4.3 K SHARES 645 SHARES 70.9 K SHARES 37.9 K SHARES 15.9 K SHARES