18 Things You’ll Get If You’re The Best And The Worst Person You Know
18 Things You'll Get If You're The Best And The Worst Person You Know
You are, without a doubt, the funniest person you’ve ever met. There is actually no one that can make you laugh quite like how you make yourself laugh. Basically, you’re your own biggest fan. Except for when you’re not. Because as well as being the funniest person you know, you’re also the most annoying. Like, you actually have to listen to yourself all the time. You just never shut up. Although your inner monologue is actually hilarious sometimes. Especially when your own brain reminds you of something funny. Thanks, brain. Other times, your brain just refuses to be helpful. You embarrass yourself all the time. You can feel yourself doing it but you just can’t stop. Then you obsess over it. You’re basically your own worst critic. But that’s probably because only are allowed to criticise yourself. You can go from hating yourself to loving yourself in an instant. Basically you’re always going on a transformative and emotional journey. The three stages of my self-perception You see no contradiction in believing that you’re the best and the worst. You can be incredibly impressive, but not when you most need to be. You simultaneously believe you’re too good for everyone and that it’s also a miracle anyone would ever fancy you. Basically, even when you think you’re the worst, you’re still the best.   25 Red Carpet Looks That Prove Rihanna Has Been Iconic...    18 Things You'll Get If You're The Best And The Worst...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.