Here Is How Sushma Swaraj Ensured That Indian Sailors On A Vessel Stuck In Yemen Port Are Brought Back To Safety
Sushma Swaraj Ensures That Indian Sailors On Vessel Stuck In Yemen Are Brought Back To Safety
Here Is How Sushma Swaraj Ensured That Indian Sailors On A Vessel Stuck In Yemen Port Are Brought Back To Safety The crew of Jag Prabha, an Indian oil tanker that has been stuck in Aden, Yemen can now breath a sigh of relief, as help is on its way for them, all thanks to the coordinated efforts to External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar and the Indian Navy. Subrat Shukla, the chief officer in the vessel had sent an SOS about a dangerous situation they were in on February 8. Not getting any response from the officials he tweeted to Sushma Swaraj on February 14, seeking help. In an SOS message to the minister, he sought help from the minister to be sent back to India. His wife was also with him on the vessel and had got stuck in Aden. @SushmaSwaraj , help me & my wife repatriate India frm Aden. I am choff in indian vsl Jag Prabha, stuck in Yemen.Grievance Id YM9RPT101680617 On Wednesday Swaraj respond seeking details of the ship and the possibility of evacuating them using an Indian Navy ship. Do we have an Indian Navy Ship close by ? https://t.co/a1NIlamgdD The ship is owned by a private company and according to Shukla the management had violated MEA advisory on not travelling to conflict hit Yemen. The Indian Navy responded saying that the nearest Indian Naval warship is approx 350 Nautical miles East of Aden, and it will take at least 24 hours for them to reach there.

The crew of Jag Prabha, an Indian oil tanker that has been stuck in Aden, Yemen can now breath a sigh of relief, as help is on its way for them, all thanks to the coordinated efforts to External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar and the Indian Navy.

Subrat Shukla, the chief officer in the vessel had sent an SOS about a dangerous situation they were in on February 8.

Subrat Shukla/ Twitter

Not getting any response from the officials he tweeted to Sushma Swaraj on February 14, seeking help.

In an SOS message to the minister, he sought help from the minister to be sent back to India. His wife was also with him on the vessel and had got stuck in Aden.

@SushmaSwaraj, help me & my wife repatriate India frm Aden. I am choff in indian vsl Jag Prabha, stuck in Yemen.Grievance Id YM9RPT101680617 — subrat shukla (@AXssProhibited) February 14, 2017

BCCL

On Wednesday Swaraj respond seeking details of the ship and the possibility of evacuating them using an Indian Navy ship.

Do we have an Indian Navy Ship close by ? https://t.co/a1NIlamgdD — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) February 22, 2017

The ship is owned by a private company and according to Shukla the management had violated MEA advisory on not travelling to conflict hit Yemen.

The Indian Navy responded saying that the nearest Indian Naval warship is approx 350 Nautical miles East of Aden, and it will take at least 24 hours for them to reach there.

Don't Miss 2.2 K SHARES 80.5 K SHARES 51.4 K SHARES 28 K SHARES 40.1 K SHARES

@SushmaSwaraj @SpokespersonMoD minimum 24 hours steaming time to reach Aden, Yemen — SpokespersonNavy (@indiannavy) February 22, 2017

The Navy Spokesperson however highlighted the bureaucratic hindrances and said the mission is possible only on the directives from MEA to MoD to Indian Navy.

@SushmaSwaraj Ma'm we need directives from you (MEA) to MoD to Indian Navy — SpokespersonNavy (@indiannavy) February 22, 2017

Swaraj who raised the issue with her cabinet colleague Manohar Parrikar assured the stranded crew that help was on its way.

I have requested my colleague @manoharparrikar ji to rescue Indian nationals from your ship. /1 @AXssProhibited — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) February 22, 2017

@SushmaSwaraj @manoharparrikar Thank you so much for your efforts. I will never forget your kindness. Salute to you Ma'am. Jai Hind — subrat shukla (@AXssProhibited) February 22, 2017

According to Shukla's latest tweet the company said the ship will go to next port in another 10 days.

@SushmaSwaraj @manoharparrikar Ma'am Company have spoken to ind Navy &told them in 10 days ship will go to next port.No Naval Ship is Coming — subrat shukla (@AXssProhibited) February 22, 2017