Seth Meyers shuts down Trump's wall by exposing the inconsistencies
Seth Meyers shuts down Trump's wall by exposing the inconsistencies
Seth Meyers is not sparing his words when it comes to Donald Trump. After slamming him for the "batshit crazy" press conference and the non-existent Swedish terror attack , the comedian used his most recent segment to note the various and many inconsistencies about the president's plan to build a wall on the US-Mexico border. First of all, there are reports saying more Mexicans are leaving the US than coming in. “That’s right, America has turned into a bad movie and people are walking out,” he said. Then, Trump faces the question about who will build the wall. And one particular developer and longtime friend of Trump, Jorge Perez, was not impressed by the offer he received. He told : "The wall is the most idiotic thing I've ever seen or heard in my life." "And for someone who has known Donald Trump for years, that's a high bar," Meyers said. James Corden brutally tears apart that Britney Spears biopic Guy pranks local school by pretending to be a kid and calling out sick Artist creates beautiful nature scenes out of gunpowder, then sets it on fire Find your serenity now with George Costanza singing The Chainsmokers

Seth Meyers is not sparing his words when it comes to Donald Trump.

After slamming him for the "batshit crazy" press conference and the non-existent Swedish terror attack, the comedian used his most recent Closer Look segment to note the various and many inconsistencies about the president's plan to build a wall on the US-Mexico border.

First of all, there are reports saying more Mexicans are leaving the US than coming in. “That’s right, America has turned into a bad movie and people are walking out,” he said.

Then, Trump faces the question about who will build the wall. And one particular developer and longtime friend of Trump, Jorge Perez, was not impressed by the offer he received. He told Bloomberg: "The wall is the most idiotic thing I've ever seen or heard in my life."

"And for someone who has known Donald Trump for years, that's a high bar," Meyers said.