Here’s Why The Discovery Of ‘7 Wonders’ Of TRAPPIST-1 Solar System Is The Most Important So Far
Here’s Why The Discovery Of ‘7 Wonders’ Of TRAPPIST-1 Solar System Is The Most Important So Far
Here’s Why The Discovery Of ‘7 Wonders’ Of TRAPPIST-1 Solar System Is The Most Important So Far Every week, Captain James T Kirk and the crew of the USS Enterprise travelled to distant planets, crossing paths with alien life forms, making new discoveries as they went. While that was a science fiction, the latest discovery by the Belgian telescope TRAPPIST and NASA’s Spitzer and Hubble Space Telescopes is science fact. A group of seven earth-size rocky planets, orbiting an ultra-cool dwarf star, named the TRAPPIST-1 system is probably the most important space find of recent times. In May 2016, TRAPPIST had discovered three planets in the system. Later, the Spitzer telescope discovered that the third planet was, in fact, three different planets and it also found two more in addition. What makes TRAPPIST-1 special? The TRAPPIST-1 system is of particular interest to scientists because this is the first time that Earth-size planets have been found orbiting this kind of a star. Observations made so far have confirmed that these are rocky in nature, just like the inner planets of our solar system. The stars orbit is very near to their star, in fact all of them are closer to it than Mercury is to our very own sun. Interestingly, since the star is an ultra-cool dwarf, there’s a good chance of liquid water existing on the surface of the planets, despite the close orbit. Even more important is the fact that three out of the seven are located in the habitable zone. This means three times the chances of alien life existing there. But does it? Nobody is certain about it. Not yet. Water is a pre-requisite for life to exist, so there’s a good chance it might evolve in the future. The habitable zone is that region around a star, where temperatures aren’t really too high or too cold, but just right so liquid water can exist. The earth orbits in the habitable zone and here we are - all alone in the universe. To be certain, however, NASA is going to utilise the James Webb Space Telescope to detect the chemicals that exist there, including water, oxygen, ozone, methane and others. So how earth-like are they? All the seven planets in the system are between 0.77 to 1.09 times the radius of the earth, so they’re pretty much as big as the earth. But since they are so close to their star, if you were there, you’d be celebrating your birthday every 1.5 to 20 earth days!

Every week, Captain James T Kirk and the crew of the USS Enterprise travelled to distant planets, crossing paths with alien life forms, making new discoveries as they went. While that was a science fiction, the latest discovery by the Belgian telescope TRAPPIST and NASA’s Spitzer and Hubble Space Telescopes is science fact.

NASA

A group of seven earth-size rocky planets, orbiting an ultra-cool dwarf star, named the TRAPPIST-1 system is probably the most important space find of recent times. In May 2016, TRAPPIST had discovered three planets in the system. Later, the Spitzer telescope discovered that the third planet was, in fact, three different planets and it also found two more in addition.

What makes TRAPPIST-1 special?

The TRAPPIST-1 system is of particular interest to scientists because this is the first time that Earth-size planets have been found orbiting this kind of a star. Observations made so far have confirmed that these are rocky in nature, just like the inner planets of our solar system.

NASA

The stars orbit is very near to their star, in fact all of them are closer to it than Mercury is to our very own sun. Interestingly, since the star is an ultra-cool dwarf, there’s a good chance of liquid water existing on the surface of the planets, despite the close orbit.

Even more important is the fact that three out of the seven are located in the habitable zone. This means three times the chances of alien life existing there.

But does it?

Nobody is certain about it. Not yet. Water is a pre-requisite for life to exist, so there’s a good chance it might evolve in the future. The habitable zone is that region around a star, where temperatures aren’t really too high or too cold, but just right so liquid water can exist. The earth orbits in the habitable zone and here we are - all alone in the universe.

NASA

To be certain, however, NASA is going to utilise the James Webb Space Telescope to detect the chemicals that exist there, including water, oxygen, ozone, methane and others.

So how earth-like are they?

All the seven planets in the system are between 0.77 to 1.09 times the radius of the earth, so they’re pretty much as big as the earth. But since they are so close to their star, if you were there, you’d be celebrating your birthday every 1.5 to 20 earth days!

Don't Miss 12.2 K SHARES 70.4 K SHARES 45.5 K SHARES 24.6 K SHARES

NASA

But NASA says that the planets may be tidally locked to the star – which means that one side of the planet is perpetually facing the star and the other has permanent night. So, there may be huge temperature extremes and weather patterns that are completely different from earth.

What is the planet surface like?

The TRAPPIST-1 system is a relatively close - 40 light years away from us - in the Aquarius constellation and since we’re still struggling to leave our home planet, we can only guess.

NASA

Visitors to the planet will see a dim red star on the horizon and the sister planets crossing the sky depending on the time of the year there. Also, interplanetary travel in the system will be measured in days and not months and years like it is in our solar system.

Hopefully one day, we’ll be able to visit the TRAPPIST-1 system and see it with our own eyes.