After Raman Raghav, Nawazuddin Siddiqui's Manto Biopic Will Make You Respect Him Even More
After Raman Raghav, Nawazuddin Siddiqui's Manto Biopic Will Make You Respect Him Even More
After Raman Raghav, Nawazuddin Siddiqui's Manto Biopic Will Make You Respect Him Even More When it comes to making a character alive on the silver screen, no actor does it better than Nawazuddin Siddiqui. For Anurag Kashyap's , he was rushed to the hospital many times because of the grueling process of method acting. During our interaction with Nawazuddin, he had revealed to us that he even started sleep-talking that made her wife worry for him. Now that Nawazuddin Siddiqui is all set to bring the character of Manto live with his acting skills for Nandita Das' film, he revealed in his recent interview with DNA, that he is again doing his best to step into the shoes of the legendary writer and poet. Apart from staying away from all modes of communication, Nawazuddin revealed that he is dressing like Manto in real life too. Even when he is not on the sets, he dresses up like him to get into the skin of the character. He added, "I feel I know him well enough to get into his mind and body. I need to dress the way he did, and as long as I'm playing him, I need to live my life the way he did. Alone. Writing words that created magic on paper. If I enter Manto's physical world, I feel I can penetrate his mind." He added that he is also planning to refurnish his room in the same manner as Manto's and this includes replacing his current bed. Nawazuddin has also decided not to take up any project till he completes Manto. Now that's dedication, right?

When it comes to making a character alive on the silver screen, no actor does it better than Nawazuddin Siddiqui. For Anurag Kashyap's Raman Raghav 2.0, he was rushed to the hospital many times because of the grueling process of method acting.

During our interaction with Nawazuddin, he had revealed to us that he even started sleep-talking that made her wife worry for him.

Twitter

Now that Nawazuddin Siddiqui is all set to bring the character of Manto live with his acting skills for Nandita Das' film, he revealed in his recent interview with DNA, that he is again doing his best to step into the shoes of the legendary writer and poet.

Nandita Das

Apart from staying away from all modes of communication, Nawazuddin revealed that he is dressing like Manto in real life too. Even when he is not on the sets, he dresses up like him to get into the skin of the character.

He added, "I feel I know him well enough to get into his mind and body. I need to dress the way he did, and as long as I'm playing him, I need to live my life the way he did. Alone. Writing words that created magic on paper. If I enter Manto's physical world, I feel I can penetrate his mind."

He added that he is also planning to refurnish his room in the same manner as Manto's and this includes replacing his current bed.

Nawazuddin has also decided not to take up any project till he completes Manto. Now that's dedication, right?