Brit Awards 2017: Watch Chris Martin's George Michael tribute
Brit Awards 2017: Watch Chris Martin's George Michael tribute
Popular videos    Watch the 4-minute prologue to Alien: Covenant      Video shows tigers take down drone in China      Five things you need to know about Nasa’s exoplanets discovery      Katy Perry's dancing house at the Brit Awards is the new Left Shark   The BRIT Awards 2017 were a generally uneventful affair, minus a few mishaps and awards here and there. However, there was was one beautiful moment that had everyone in tears: Chris Martin’s tribute to George Michael . Michael's Wham! partner Andrew Ridgeley, along with their backing singers Pepsi & Shirlie - Helen DeMacque and Shirlie Holliman - took to the stage beforehand to remember the singer. The event marked the first time Ridgeley has publicly commented on Michael’s death, not including social media posts. "On Christmas Day 2016, the greatest singer-songwriter of his generation, an icon of his era, and my beloved friend, George Michael, was lost,” he told the audience. "A supernova in a firmament of shining stars had been extinguished, and it felt like the sky had fallen in. It started out ordinarily enough: In 1975, we were two boys that happened to share a mutual sense of humour, a love of life-affirming music, the records and artists it gave birth to, and a shared sense that we understood it.” George Michael: a life in pictures               George Michael: a life in pictures    1982   Wham perform at the Hammersmith Odeon   Rex     1983   George Micheal and Andrew Ridley perform in concert in June 1983   Rex Features     1984   May 1984 Exclusive Photocall with Wham When Their Song 'Wake Me Up Before You Go-go' Hit Number One in the Charts at Bbc Tv Centre George Michael and Andrew Ridgeley   Rex Features     1985   Ivor Novello Awards at the Grosvenor House Hotel, George Michael (songwriter of the Year) and Andrew Ridgeley   Rex Features     1985   Andrew Ridgeley and George Michael in Tiananmen Square, during their WHAM! in China tour in 1985   Rex Features     1986   rank Bruno Boxer 1986 George Michael And Frank Bruno. British And European Heavyweight Champion Frank Bruno Flew Off For A Winning Weekend In Las Vegas Yesterday And Found Himself Sitting Next To George Michael The Wham! Star.   Rex Features     1986   George Michael is presented with an award by Elton John during the 1986 Brit Awards   Rex Features     1986   George Michael and Freddie Mercury during a Queen party at the Groucho Club   Rex Features     1991   WHAM! reunited during the "Rock in Rio" concert in Rio de Janeiro   Rex Features     1993   George Michael appears outside the high court, a case where micheal fought Sony Music for failing to promote his albumn "Listen without prejudice Vol.1"   Rex Features     1995   David Frost interviewed George Michael following his Sony contract dispute   Rex Features     1997   The pop star was visibly moved during the funeral of Princess Diana   Rex Features     1998   Michael gave a press conference ahead of his public service for aids charity "Angel Food" following his conviction for engaging in a sex act in a public toilet   Rex Features     2004   George Michael poses at the Sunset Virgin Megastore where he made an apperance to sign copies of his new CD 'Patience'   Getty     2005   George Michael poses during the photocall of his documentary film 'George Michael - A different Story' by Southan Morris during the 55th Berlin Film Festival   Getty     2005   Musicians Pete Townhsend from The Who, George Michael and David Gilmour from Pink Floyd perform 'Hey Jude' with children on stage at the finale of 'Live 8 London' in Hyde Park   Getty     2007   George Michael arrives at Brent Magistrates Court in west London as he faces charges of driving while unfit through drugs. The former Wham! star's legal team had hoped he could be absent from the trial but he was ordered by District Judge Katherine Marshall to appear on the first day   Getty     2007   George Michael performs the first concert at the newly rebuilt Wembley Stadium   Getty     2011   George Michael speaks to the media during a press conference at the Royal Opera House, central London on May 11, 2011. The event was to announce his 'Symphonica' European tour which is set to visit historic venues such as Prague's State Opera House, Paris' Palais Garnier and London's Royal Opera House   Getty     2012   George Michael performs during the Closing Ceremony on Day 16 of the London 2012 Olympic Games at Olympic Stadium   Getty  Following the three artists sharing memories they had of Michael in the early years of Wham!, Ridgeley concluded:  "George's contribution to the great archive of contemporary music rests alongside the immortals. His is a legacy of unquestionable brilliance and one that will continue to shine and resonate for generations to come." Ridgeley then introduced ‘one of the finest singer-songwriters of his generation,’ Coldplay’s Chris Martin, who took to the stage to perform "A Different Corner.” Midway through, archive footage of Michael also played, singing along with Martin, the Coldplay singer harmonising with Michael. Watch Chris Martin perform A Different Corner at the #BRITs as a tribute to George Michael https://t.co/kMlNpX8qji  pic.twitter.com/yVscJN4xMj At the Grammys earlier this month, Adele paid tribute to Michae l with a stripped-down, emotional version of his song ‘Fastlove’. Also Rhiannon Giddens - Freedom Highway, Dirty Projectors - Dirty Projectors, and Beatrice Rana - Bach: Goldberg Variations More about: Brit Awards 2017 George Michael Comments

The BRIT Awards 2017 were a generally uneventful affair, minus a few mishaps and awards here and there. However, there was was one beautiful moment that had everyone in tears: Chris Martin’s tribute to George Michael.

Michael's Wham! partner Andrew Ridgeley, along with their backing singers Pepsi & Shirlie - Helen DeMacque and Shirlie Holliman - took to the stage beforehand to remember the singer.

The event marked the first time Ridgeley has publicly commented on Michael’s death, not including social media posts.

"On Christmas Day 2016, the greatest singer-songwriter of his generation, an icon of his era, and my beloved friend, George Michael, was lost,” he told the audience.

"A supernova in a firmament of shining stars had been extinguished, and it felt like the sky had fallen in. It started out ordinarily enough: In 1975, we were two boys that happened to share a mutual sense of humour, a love of life-affirming music, the records and artists it gave birth to, and a shared sense that we understood it.”

George Michael: a life in pictures







20 show all George Michael: a life in pictures





































1/20 1982 Wham perform at the Hammersmith Odeon Rex

2/20 1983 George Micheal and Andrew Ridley perform in concert in June 1983 Rex Features

3/20 1984 May 1984 Exclusive Photocall with Wham When Their Song 'Wake Me Up Before You Go-go' Hit Number One in the Charts at Bbc Tv Centre George Michael and Andrew Ridgeley Rex Features

4/20 1985 Ivor Novello Awards at the Grosvenor House Hotel, George Michael (songwriter of the Year) and Andrew Ridgeley Rex Features

5/20 1985 Andrew Ridgeley and George Michael in Tiananmen Square, during their WHAM! in China tour in 1985 Rex Features

6/20 1986 rank Bruno Boxer 1986 George Michael And Frank Bruno. British And European Heavyweight Champion Frank Bruno Flew Off For A Winning Weekend In Las Vegas Yesterday And Found Himself Sitting Next To George Michael The Wham! Star. Rex Features

7/20 1986 George Michael is presented with an award by Elton John during the 1986 Brit Awards Rex Features

8/20 1986 George Michael and Freddie Mercury during a Queen party at the Groucho Club Rex Features

9/20 1991 WHAM! reunited during the "Rock in Rio" concert in Rio de Janeiro Rex Features

10/20 1993 George Michael appears outside the high court, a case where micheal fought Sony Music for failing to promote his albumn "Listen without prejudice Vol.1" Rex Features

11/20 1995 David Frost interviewed George Michael following his Sony contract dispute Rex Features

12/20 1997 The pop star was visibly moved during the funeral of Princess Diana Rex Features

13/20 1998 Michael gave a press conference ahead of his public service for aids charity "Angel Food" following his conviction for engaging in a sex act in a public toilet Rex Features

14/20 2004 George Michael poses at the Sunset Virgin Megastore where he made an apperance to sign copies of his new CD 'Patience' Getty

15/20 2005 George Michael poses during the photocall of his documentary film 'George Michael - A different Story' by Southan Morris during the 55th Berlin Film Festival Getty

16/20 2005 Musicians Pete Townhsend from The Who, George Michael and David Gilmour from Pink Floyd perform 'Hey Jude' with children on stage at the finale of 'Live 8 London' in Hyde Park Getty

17/20 2007 George Michael arrives at Brent Magistrates Court in west London as he faces charges of driving while unfit through drugs. The former Wham! star's legal team had hoped he could be absent from the trial but he was ordered by District Judge Katherine Marshall to appear on the first day Getty

18/20 2007 George Michael performs the first concert at the newly rebuilt Wembley Stadium Getty

19/20 2011 George Michael speaks to the media during a press conference at the Royal Opera House, central London on May 11, 2011. The event was to announce his 'Symphonica' European tour which is set to visit historic venues such as Prague's State Opera House, Paris' Palais Garnier and London's Royal Opera House Getty

20/20 2012 George Michael performs during the Closing Ceremony on Day 16 of the London 2012 Olympic Games at Olympic Stadium Getty

Following the three artists sharing memories they had of Michael in the early years of Wham!, Ridgeley concluded: "George's contribution to the great archive of contemporary music rests alongside the immortals. His is a legacy of unquestionable brilliance and one that will continue to shine and resonate for generations to come."

Ridgeley then introduced ‘one of the finest singer-songwriters of his generation,’ Coldplay’s Chris Martin, who took to the stage to perform "A Different Corner.” Midway through, archive footage of Michael also played, singing along with Martin, the Coldplay singer harmonising with Michael.

Watch Chris Martin perform A Different Corner at the #BRITs as a tribute to George Michael https://t.co/kMlNpX8qji pic.twitter.com/yVscJN4xMj — Coldplaying (@coldplaying) 22 February 2017

At the Grammys earlier this month, Adele paid tribute to Michael with a stripped-down, emotional version of his song ‘Fastlove’. Also Rhiannon Giddens - Freedom Highway, Dirty Projectors - Dirty Projectors, and Beatrice Rana - Bach: Goldberg Variations