'Alien: Covenant' Prologue Shows Crew Partying Hard Before Sh*t Hits the Fan
'Alien: Covenant' Prologue Shows Crew Partying Hard Before Sh*t Hits the Fan
As we limp into the final moments of a particularly grueling week, here's something to help us regain our stokedness: nearly five straight minutes of action. The prologue, first glimpsed during Wednesday's new episode of , sees Michael Fassbender and the rest of the Covenant crew enjoying a so-called "last supper" ahead of what we can safely assume is a marathon of claustrophobic horror. This intro to Ridley Scott's latest entry in the franchise reveals James Franco as the original colony ship captain Jake Branson, who's apparently feeling a bit under the weather. When Branson clocks out for some snoozing, the rest of the crew—including a drunk Danny McBride—enjoys a communal throwdown of sorts. In celebration of the prologue's release, whoever runs the official Twitter account promptly trolled NASA with some ominous extraterrestrial foreboding: . @NASA What could go wrong? pic.twitter.com/m107esBxjI Speaking with Complex last July, McBride confirmed his own fandom and said Scott's initial request for a meeting took him by surprise. "I don't think there's anything that comes close to that franchise," McBride told Erik Abriss. "I would've never thought in a million years I would be in one of those movies. When we wrapped , I came back to L.A. and got a call that Ridley Scott wanted to sit down for a meeting. I'm a humongous fan of his so I was blown away just at the idea of meeting him. So as we're talking in the meeting and just kind of bullshitting, he starts pulling out these books and showing me these storyboard sketches. I finally realized, 'Oh my God, this is for an movie!'" hits theaters May 19.

As we limp into the final moments of a particularly grueling week, here's something to help us regain our stokedness: nearly five straight minutes of Alien: Covenant action. The prologue, first glimpsed during Wednesday's new episode of Legion, sees Michael Fassbender and the rest of the Covenant crew enjoying a so-called "last supper" ahead of what we can safely assume is a marathon of claustrophobic horror.

This intro to Ridley Scott's latest entry in the Alien franchise reveals James Franco as the original colony ship captain Jake Branson, who's apparently feeling a bit under the weather. When Branson clocks out for some snoozing, the rest of the crew—including a drunk Danny McBride—enjoys a communal throwdown of sorts.

In celebration of the prologue's release, whoever runs the official Alien: Covenant Twitter account promptly trolled NASA with some ominous extraterrestrial foreboding:

Speaking with Complex last July, McBride confirmed his own Alien fandom and said Scott's initial request for a meeting took him by surprise. "I don't think there's anything that comes close to that franchise," McBride told Erik Abriss. "I would've never thought in a million years I would be in one of those movies. When we wrapped Vice Principals, I came back to L.A. and got a call that Ridley Scott wanted to sit down for a meeting. I'm a humongous fan of his so I was blown away just at the idea of meeting him. So as we're talking in the meeting and just kind of bullshitting, he starts pulling out these books and showing me these storyboard sketches. I finally realized, 'Oh my God, this is for an Alien movie!'"

Alien: Covenant hits theaters May 19.