Headteachers should stop whinging about funding cuts and curb 'largesse', Sir Michael Wilshaw says
Headteachers should stop whinging about funding cuts and curb 'largesse', Sir Michael Wilshaw says 
eadteachers should stop whinging about funding cuts, Sir Michael Wilshaw has said, as he suggested there has been "largesse" in the education system over the last 20 years. The former Ofsted chief said schools the Government must "hold its nerve" in the face of criticsm from school leaders about the proposed national funding formula. He said that many schools, have been well-funded for the last two decades, have built up large balances and in some cases heads have been awarding themselves large salaries. But times are different now, he argued, and school leaders need to adjust. is comments came amid been fierce opposition against Education Secretary Justine Greening's proposed funding formula - one of her flagship policies - with a number of Tory MPs saying they will vote against it. Ministers say that the formula will lead to fairer funding for schools, and redress historic inequalities, but a handful of Conservative MPs have said they are prepared to rebel over the proposals. Last month The Telegraph revealed that Tory whips have been working behind the scenes in an attempt to win over critics and end the dispute. A consultation over the new national funding formula is ongoing and Sir Michael said it was likely there would be "transitional difficulties" to begin with. But he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme there had been "real injustices" in the system, with some schools receiving up to 50% less funding than schools with similar levels of deprivation in other areas. Sir Michael said it was "important" for ministers to listen to concerns of headteachers during the consultation on school funding, but added that ultimately the Government should hold its nerve. "Over the last 20 years, and I speak not just as the ex-chief inspector of schools but as a headteacher, there's been largesse in the system, schools have been well funded over the last 20 years and school budgets have been ring fenced," he said. "We're seeing constraints now and tightening of the budgets but schools have done well over the last 20 years to the point where many schools, particularly secondary schools, have built up large balances above the thresholds that the Government has set and headteachers have been awarding themselves, and governors have been awarding them, very good salaries. "Times are different now, times are very tight and it's really up to headteachers and governing boards to adjust." sked if he thinks the Government should "hold its nerve" in the face of "whinging" from teachers, he said "Yes, I think so." He said that head teachers must be prepared to go through "good times and bad times" and use their budgets wisely. "What I did do is ensure that I kept my best teachers and I paid them well and continue to pay them well. If that meant I had to increase class sizes, that's what I did, " he said. Department for Education spokesman said: "The Government has protected the core schools budget in real terms since 2010, with school funding at its highest level on record at more than £40 billion in 2016-17. But the system for distributing that funding across the country is unfair, opaque and outdated. "We are going to end the historic postcode lottery in school funding and, under the proposed national schools funding formula, more than half of England's schools will receive a cash boost."

Headteachers should stop whinging about funding cuts, Sir Michael Wilshaw has said, as he suggested there has been "largesse" in the education system over the last 20 years.

The former Ofsted chief said schools the Government must "hold its nerve" in the face of criticsm from school leaders about the proposed national funding formula.

He said that many schools, have been well-funded for the last two decades, have built up large balances and in some cases heads have been awarding themselves large salaries.

But times are different now, he argued, and school leaders need to adjust.