Why you shouldn't ignore your bad back
Why you shouldn't ignore your bad back


Ignore your bad back at your own risk.

Despite being a common problem across the world, scientists warn it could have grave consequences.

New research suggests that sufferers are actually 13 per cent more likely to die early from any cause.

And the findings could pose a significant threat, with painkillers recently found to be ineffective in treating the condition.

The findings could pose a significant threat, with painkillers recently found to be ineffective in treating the condition, experts say

Few studies have examined the potential reduced life expectancy associated with spinal pain in an ageing population.

But researchers from the University of Sydney assessed the link between death rates and spinal pain in 4,390 twins over the age of 70.

Writing in the European Journal of Pain, Study author Dr Paulo Ferreria said: 'This is a significant finding as many people think that back pain is not life-threatening.

'These findings warrant further investigation because while there is a clear link between back pain and mortality we don't know yet why this is so.

'Spinal pain may be part of a pattern of poor health and poor functional ability, which increases mortality risk in the older population.

'Policy makers should be aware that back pain is a serious issue - it is an indicator of people's poor health and should be screened for, particularly in the elderly.'

New research suggests that sufferers of back pain are actually 13 per cent more likely to die early from any cause

And Dr Matthew Fernandez, also involved in the study, said: 'Back pain should be recognised as an important co-morbidity that is likely to impact people's longevity and quality of life.'

IBUPROFEN DOESN'T WORK FOR BACK PAIN There's no point taking ibuprofen for your back pain - it doesn't work, research earlier this month suggested. Common over-the-counter drugs only provide any form of relief to one in six patients, Australian scientists discovered. In fact, adults taking the cheap pills are actually three times more likely to suffer from stomach ulcers, their study found.

Back pain, ranked as the highest contributor to disability in the world, normally improves within a few weeks or months.

It is believed to affect four in five people at some point in their lifetime, with most cases being caused by lifting heavy objects or bending awkwardly.

But half see a recurrence of the problem within a year, and for some people back pain can last for years or come back in waves.

In the past most patients with back pain were prescribed some form of painkiller.

But recent research shows there are actually no effective drugs for the problem, and the only way to treat it is through stretching and exercises.

Studies have shown paracetamol is ineffective against back pain, and more powerful opioid painkillers are both ineffective and highly dangerous.