NASA, Mosul, Kim Jong-nam: Your Thursday Briefing
NASA, Mosul, Kim Jong-nam: Your Thursday Briefing
The administration reversed an Obama-era policy that allowed transgender students to use bathrooms corresponding with their gender identity, an order that caused a rift in President Trump’s cabinet. The “bathroom debate” pitted Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who has opposed expanding gay and transgender rights, against Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, who initially objected to the decision. Ms. DeVos said in a statement Wednesday night that she considered it a “moral obligation” for every school in America to protect students from discrimination, bullying and harassment.  Not one, but seven Earth-size planets have been discovered orbiting a tiny star about 40 light-years away (not terribly far in cosmic terms). Some of them might even be awash in water. Advertisement It’s the first realistic opportunity for scientists to find evidence of alien life. Advertisement The four-day gathering will be in full steam outside Washington today, and Vice President Mike Pence will give an address at 7:30 p.m. The president is scheduled to speak on Friday. Some conservatives attending the conference question whether Mr. Trump will be loyal to their agenda. Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson arrived in Mexico on Wednesday for meetings that will help the country decide whether to battle or to appease the Trump administration. Separately, Speaker Paul D. Ryan made a quick visit to a border town in Texas where a promised wall could rise. The increased threat of deportation has sent many immigrants into hiding . The deadline for Dakota Access pipeline protesters to clear their largest camp passed Wednesday afternoon. Ten people were arrested , but 25 to 50 demonstrators are thought to remain. Here’s a 360 view of what’s left of the camp. A Standing Rock Camp Is Burned The largest protest camp at Standing Rock was cleared on Wednesday after the governor of North Dakota ordered the evacuation of people who had occupied the land for months.      Documents obtained by The Times under the Freedom of Information Act show how the so-called underwear bomber was inspired to try to blow up a plane as it approached Detroit in 2009. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business  detailed in a recent blog post a history of discrimination and sexual harassment at the company. Advertisement Her revelations shined light on a workplace culture in the technology sector that can be aggressive and unfriendly to women . appears to be avoiding a winter swoon, which means the Federal Reserve could raise its benchmark interest rate “fairly soon,” minutes of a recent meeting show. is at the heart of a federal racketeering lawsuit brought by tobacco farmers. They say they were swindled out of $24 million by agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. were mixed on Wednesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living , we talked about forgiving yourself for getting off track with your New Year’s resolution. And we asked what caused your slip-up. Many who wrote said they had lapsed because of one of two things: not having enough time, or life getting in the way. Here are some stories that might help you with time management , learning to be less busy , finding time to exercise , eating better in restaurants , avoiding sugar in everyday life , rethinking work/life balance and learning to “ monotask .” We’ll be back on Monday to wrap up resolutions month. : A classic baked, cheesy pasta can be improved by broccoli, a little spice and a sheet pan . Noteworthy The very public killing of Kim Jong-nam , the estranged half brother of the North Korean leader, has grown into a bizarre mystery. Advertisement It involves an ever-expanding cast of characters, including women from Vietnam and Indonesia accused of carrying out the attack with toxic liquid smeared on their hands, and other suspects believed to be North Korean agents. Pyongyang accused Malaysia of fabricating evidence. Last month, the Iraqi government recovered the eastern part of Mosul in a victory against the Islamic State. Our reporter takes you inside what remains. Today’s episode of The Daily podcast looks at the next chapter of the offensive. Listen from a computer , on an iOS device or on an Android device . Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Recent crises in Oroville, Calif., and Elko County, Nev., have put the spotlight on the nation’s ailing infrastructure. As of 2015, there were nearly 2,000 high-hazard dams in need of repair. On “The Tonight Show,” Jimmy Fallon introduced a new party game, “two truths and an alternative fact.” Other hosts poked fun at Republican members of Congress besieged by their constituents at town halls. Back Story In New Orleans, the annual party leading up to Mardi Gras will be in full swing in the coming days, culminating next week on Fat Tuesday. Among the highlights are parades by social clubs known as krewes. Riding on lavishly decorated floats, krewe members toss beads, plastic cups, coins and other “throws” to revelers lining a route that usually runs for several miles. Tonight’s parades include the Krewe of Muses , an all-female organization named after the goddesses of arts and sciences in Greek mythology. (Nine of New Orleans’s streets — including Calliope, Melpomene and Terpsichore — were inspired by the daughters of Zeus.) Advertisement Muses is one of the city’s newer krewes, parading for the first time in 2001. (Rex, one of the oldest, was founded in 1872 .) Like many krewes, Muses is involved in charitable efforts in the community, but it is particularly known for the ornate shoes it throws — or gently hands — to the crowds. Its floats, including one resembling a giant high-heel shoe, often have a satirical theme; this year’s is Dr. Meuss on the Loose, a play on Dr. Seuss. And unlike other krewes, it does not have a king or queen. Instead, the group has an Honorary Muse. This year, it’s the journalist Tamron Hall . We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

It’s the first realistic opportunity for scientists to find evidence of alien life.

• Conservative Political Action Conference is underway.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The four-day gathering will be in full steam outside Washington today, and Vice President Mike Pence will give an address at 7:30 p.m. The president is scheduled to speak on Friday.

Some conservatives attending the conference question whether Mr. Trump will be loyal to their agenda.

• Testing U.S.-Mexico ties.

Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson arrived in Mexico on Wednesday for meetings that will help the country decide whether to battle or to appease the Trump administration.

Photo

Separately, Speaker Paul D. Ryan made a quick visit to a border town in Texas where a promised wall could rise. The increased threat of deportation has sent many immigrants into hiding.

• North Dakota protest camp disperses.

The deadline for Dakota Access pipeline protesters to clear their largest camp passed Wednesday afternoon. Ten people were arrested, but 25 to 50 demonstrators are thought to remain.

Here’s a 360 view of what’s left of the camp.

Video

• Would-be bomber’s recruitment, and his foiled plan.

Documents obtained by The Times under the Freedom of Information Act show how the so-called underwear bomber was inspired to try to blow up a plane as it approached Detroit in 2009.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• A former Uber engineer detailed in a recent blog post a history of discrimination and sexual harassment at the company.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Her revelations shined light on a workplace culture in the technology sector that can be aggressive and unfriendly to women.

• The U.S. economy appears to be avoiding a winter swoon, which means the Federal Reserve could raise its benchmark interest rate “fairly soon,” minutes of a recent meeting show.

• A secret bank account is at the heart of a federal racketeering lawsuit brought by tobacco farmers. They say they were swindled out of $24 million by agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.

• U.S. stocks were mixed on Wednesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• On Tuesday, we talked about forgiving yourself for getting off track with your New Year’s resolution. And we asked what caused your slip-up.

Many who wrote said they had lapsed because of one of two things: not having enough time, or life getting in the way.

Here are some stories that might help you with time management, learning to be less busy, finding time to exercise, eating better in restaurants, avoiding sugar in everyday life, rethinking work/life balance and learning to “monotask.”

We’ll be back on Monday to wrap up resolutions month.

• Recipe of the day: A classic baked, cheesy pasta can be improved by broccoli, a little spice and a sheet pan.

Noteworthy

• A geopolitical whodunit.

The very public killing of Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half brother of the North Korean leader, has grown into a bizarre mystery.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It involves an ever-expanding cast of characters, including women from Vietnam and Indonesia accused of carrying out the attack with toxic liquid smeared on their hands, and other suspects believed to be North Korean agents.

Pyongyang accused Malaysia of fabricating evidence.

• An inside look at a city torn apart by ISIS.

Photo

Last month, the Iraqi government recovered the eastern part of Mosul in a victory against the Islamic State. Our reporter takes you inside what remains.

Today’s episode of The Daily podcast looks at the next chapter of the offensive. Listen from a computer, on an iOS device or on an Android device.