Reggie Jackson's Trade Value for Pistons Reportedly Revealed
Reggie Jackson's Trade Value for Pistons Reportedly Revealed
As the NBA trade deadline approaches Thursday, the Detroit Pistons are reportedly asking for three assets in exchange for guard Reggie Jackson. According to Chris Mannix of The Vertical, Detroit is actively shopping Jackson and hoping to land a first-round pick, young player and expiring contract in exchange for him. Jackson thrived last season with a career-high 18.8 points and 6.2 assists per game, but his play has dropped off in 2016-17. The 26-year-old is currently putting up 15.2 points and 5.6 helpers per contest in 36 appearances. Jackson missed the first 21 games of the season due to a knee injury . The former Oklahoma City Thunder first-round pick has been a target of the Orlando Magic, but according to Jeff Zillgitt of , it is unlikely Orlando will be able to pry him away from the Pistons. Detroit is currently in the Eastern Conference's No. 8 slot at 27-30 with a one-game lead over the Milwaukee Bucks for the final playoff spot. Jackson is signed for three more seasons at an average salary of a bit more than $17 million, per Spotrac , which could make him difficult to move. While Jackson likely gives Detroit the best chance to win now at point guard, Ish Smith started the first 21 games of the season when Jackson was out injured and is averaging a respectable 8.4 points and 4.8 assists per contest. Provided the Pistons can get fair value in return for Jackson, Smith may be a strong-enough option at point guard to get Detroit back in the playoffs alongside a core of Andre Drummond, Tobias Harris, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Marcus Morris. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Vaughn Ridley/Getty Images

As the NBA trade deadline approaches Thursday, the Detroit Pistons are reportedly asking for three assets in exchange for guard Reggie Jackson.

According to Chris Mannix of The Vertical, Detroit is actively shopping Jackson and hoping to land a first-round pick, young player and expiring contract in exchange for him.

Jackson thrived last season with a career-high 18.8 points and 6.2 assists per game, but his play has dropped off in 2016-17.

The 26-year-old is currently putting up 15.2 points and 5.6 helpers per contest in 36 appearances.

Jackson missed the first 21 games of the season due to a knee injury.

The former Oklahoma City Thunder first-round pick has been a target of the Orlando Magic, but according to Jeff Zillgitt of USA Today, it is unlikely Orlando will be able to pry him away from the Pistons.

Detroit is currently in the Eastern Conference's No. 8 slot at 27-30 with a one-game lead over the Milwaukee Bucks for the final playoff spot.

Jackson is signed for three more seasons at an average salary of a bit more than $17 million, per Spotrac, which could make him difficult to move.

While Jackson likely gives Detroit the best chance to win now at point guard, Ish Smith started the first 21 games of the season when Jackson was out injured and is averaging a respectable 8.4 points and 4.8 assists per contest.

Provided the Pistons can get fair value in return for Jackson, Smith may be a strong-enough option at point guard to get Detroit back in the playoffs alongside a core of Andre Drummond, Tobias Harris, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Marcus Morris.