Wealth Snapshot: Breaking Down Jared Kushner And His Family's $1.8 Billion Fortune
Wealth Snapshot: Breaking Down Jared Kushner And His Family's $1.8 Billion Fortune
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Chloe Sorvino       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. in the Oval Office: Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump's husband and a senior advisor to President Trump. The position makes Kushner, 36, one of the most powerful people in the country; he has long belonged to one of its richest clans. The Kushner Clan: Jared (left), Josh (center) and Charles (right). Before his sojourn in Washington, D.C. , he ran his family's real estate empire, which includes stakes in trophy properties like 666 Fifth Avenue and Manhattan's Puck Building, since 2007 . In 2005, his father, Charles, now 62, went to prison for tax evasion, election fraud and witness tampering. The next year, Jared paid about $10 million for the now online-only New York Observer newspaper. His brother, Josh, 31, is no slouch himself. In 2012, he cofounded a health insurance unicorn, Oscar, which, ironically, was built on the back of legislation President Trump has vowed to kill: ObamaCare. Here's a breakdown of the Kushners' wealth. The Kushners own 13 million square feet of residential, commercial and retail space in six states, including stakes in the below buildings, which are among their crown jewels. 666 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan Stake Estimated Value: $360 million 80-90 Maiden Lane, Manhattan Stake Estimated Value: $75 million AT&T Building, Chicago Stake Estimated Value: $49 million Puck Building, Manhattan Stake Estimated Value: $200 million    Trending on {{channel_name}}

AMONG THE NEW FACES in the Oval Office: Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump's husband and a senior advisor to President Trump. The position makes Kushner, 36, one of the most powerful people in the country; he has long belonged to one of its richest clans.

Before his sojourn in Washington, D.C., he ran his family's real estate empire, which includes stakes in trophy properties like 666 Fifth Avenue and Manhattan's Puck Building, since 2007. In 2005, his father, Charles, now 62, went to prison for tax evasion, election fraud and witness tampering. The next year, Jared paid about $10 million for the now online-only New York Observer newspaper. His brother, Josh, 31, is no slouch himself. In 2012, he cofounded a health insurance unicorn, Oscar, which, ironically, was built on the back of legislation President Trump has vowed to kill: ObamaCare. Here's a breakdown of the Kushners' wealth.

The Kushners own 13 million square feet of residential, commercial and retail space in six states, including stakes in the below buildings, which are among their crown jewels.

666 Fifth Avenue, Manhattan

Stake Estimated Value: $360 million

80-90 Maiden Lane, Manhattan

Stake Estimated Value: $75 million

AT&T Building, Chicago

Stake Estimated Value: $49 million

Puck Building, Manhattan

Stake Estimated Value: $200 million

Follow Chloe on Twitter and Instagram.