Young Scooter Links With Young Thug on New Cut 'Cook Up': Premiere
Young Scooter Links With Young Thug on New Cut 'Cook Up': Premiere
Young Scooter Links With Young Thug on New Cut 'Cook Up': Premiere  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Young Scooter is gearing up for a big 2017, building on a year in which he released two mixtapes, the solo project and a joint tape alongside Ralo called . Today, Scooter taps fellow ATLien Young Thug for his latest single "Cook Up," produced by the dynamic and in-demand duo Metro Boomin and Zaytoven, which premieres below. Opening with an organ swell and a hint of Zaytoven's signature piano in the background, "Cook Up" features Thug at his enigmatic best, contorting his voice as only he can on the warbling, sing-songy hook and setting up Scooter's confident delivery on his imperious verse. "Cook Up" is the second single off Scooter's upcoming mixtape , due out this spring, following the release of " Diamonds " in December, which featured A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie and Don Q. Future , Meek Mill , YFN Lucci and TK Kravitz are all set to appear on the project.  "'Cook Up' is a single for you and your squad to show out as soon as it comes on in the club, in the car, wherever you're at," Scooter told about the track. "This is just a little taste to the level is on. We got a little something for everyone on this project." Check out the new track below, and don't miss Thug's recent star-studded video for "Guwop," in which Scooter makes a cameo, right here .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Young Scooter is gearing up for a big 2017, building on a year in which he released two mixtapes, the solo project Street Lottery 3 and a joint tape alongside Ralo called The Dream Team. Today, Scooter taps fellow ATLien Young Thug for his latest single "Cook Up," produced by the dynamic and in-demand duo Metro Boomin and Zaytoven, which Billboard premieres below.

Opening with an organ swell and a hint of Zaytoven's signature piano in the background, "Cook Up" features Thug at his enigmatic best, contorting his voice as only he can on the warbling, sing-songy hook and setting up Scooter's confident delivery on his imperious verse.

"Cook Up" is the second single off Scooter's upcoming mixtape Jugg Season, due out this spring, following the release of "Diamonds" in December, which featured A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie and Don Q. Future, Meek Mill, YFN Lucci and TK Kravitz are all set to appear on the project.

"'Cook Up' is a single for you and your squad to show out as soon as it comes on in the club, in the car, wherever you're at," Scooter told Billboard about the track. "This is just a little taste to the level Jugg King is on. We got a little something for everyone on this project."

Check out the new track below, and don't miss Thug's recent star-studded video for "Guwop," in which Scooter makes a cameo, right here.