The 'Things I did on Ambien' subreddit is a wild ride of sleepy trips and Snapchat funtimes
The 'Things I did on Ambien' subreddit is a wild ride of sleepy trips and Snapchat funtimes
Ambien: Well-known drug of choice for those with sleepytime problems. It works! But it can also make you trip balls. Enter the subreddit r/ambien, where Redditors using the sleep aid tell the wild tales of things they did under the influence of the drug. At the top of the sub, a sticky post from eight months ago sets the perfect tone for the forum. SEE ALSO: Reddit's new 'popular' front page excludes Trump-obsessed community Last Night, I Really Fucked Up. Took an Ambien and Didn't Go To Bed Immediately. I Ended Up Shaving My Balls and Snapchatting it to Half of the People on my Friends List With the Caption, "Smooothest balls in AMurica tha US." from ambien The comments range from genuine advice to others sharing their own horror stories. "I'd go for 'Sorry, i reacted badly to my sleeping medication' rather than 'Sorry, I'm on ambien'. Sounds less like you're a druggy IMO," one user wrote. "Haven't sent my balls on Snapchat, but I do know the feel of waking up and seeing sent Snapchats to people I don't even send to and not remembering what the hell I sent," wrote another. Other posts are hilariously nonsensical, clearly posted by people who took Ambien but never made it to their beds. From the posting " imnsleepy and camnpt sleep ." not evem the walrus can save mw from.the anxiety i have for tomorrow so i am trting to sleep and on ambien and everything is pretty shapes and colurs but not sleep and i need to sleep bc i need to get to a good lab and i cant amd i want to and i tried and it isnt working. byw im pff to try somemmore There are also numerous reference to the Ambien Walrus. And then, of course, there's the post brilliantly titled, " aaaaaaaaa ": i can't breathe o can't forgot 2 get toiler pappppper at workk There are also numerous reference to the Ambien Walrus, or the thing that users embody when the drugs side effects kick in. According to an interview with Drew Fairweather, the cartoonist behind Toothpaste for Dinner who coined the term in 2007, the Walrus is an imaginary creature that comes out to egg on the inebriated. "The influence of Ambien exerts itself so strangely that the user seems to be compelled by something external egging them on to perform bizarre actions," Fairweather told Casper's Van Winkles . "Thus, the Walrus." " The walrus strikes again ," a Redditor wrote as the post title, linking to a photo of a receipt for $3,075.99 worth of Golden Tibetan Yaks. A friend of a friend accidentally ordered a live yak while on sleeping pills Yes, you're reading that correctly: That man purchased $3,075.99 of Tibetan livestock, totally spun out of his gourd on Ambien. Great times. This person found this picture on their phone three days after taking 20mg. Image:  TheMax615/reddit Let's just hope this email didn't cost this Redditor their job. And finally, there are plenty of examples of texts on Ambien gone wrong. Be careful out there, Ambien users, and please use your prescriptions drugs as directed. But if you do have a weird experience, share it in r/ Ambien . [h/t: ] BONUS: This app helps the blind "see" by identifying objects around them

Ambien: Well-known drug of choice for those with sleepytime problems. It works! But it can also make you trip balls.

Enter the subreddit r/ambien, where Redditors using the sleep aid tell the wild tales of things they did under the influence of the drug. At the top of the sub, a sticky post from eight months ago sets the perfect tone for the forum.

The comments range from genuine advice to others sharing their own horror stories.

"I'd go for 'Sorry, i reacted badly to my sleeping medication' rather than 'Sorry, I'm on ambien'. Sounds less like you're a druggy IMO," one user wrote.

"Haven't sent my balls on Snapchat, but I do know the feel of waking up and seeing sent Snapchats to people I don't even send to and not remembering what the hell I sent," wrote another.

Other posts are hilariously nonsensical, clearly posted by people who took Ambien but never made it to their beds.

From the posting "imnsleepy and camnpt sleep."

not evem the walrus can save mw from.the anxiety i have for tomorrow so i am trting to sleep and on ambien and everything is pretty shapes and colurs but not sleep and i need to sleep bc i need to get to a good lab and i cant amd i want to and i tried and it isnt working. byw im pff to try somemmore

There are also numerous reference to the Ambien Walrus.

And then, of course, there's the post brilliantly titled, "aaaaaaaaa":

i can't breathe o can't forgot 2 get toiler pappppper at workk

There are also numerous reference to the Ambien Walrus, or the thing that users embody when the drugs side effects kick in.

According to an interview with Drew Fairweather, the cartoonist behind Toothpaste for Dinner who coined the term in 2007, the Walrus is an imaginary creature that comes out to egg on the inebriated.

"The influence of Ambien exerts itself so strangely that the user seems to be compelled by something external egging them on to perform bizarre actions," Fairweather told Casper's Van Winkles. "Thus, the Walrus."

"The walrus strikes again," a Redditor wrote as the post title, linking to a photo of a receipt for $3,075.99 worth of Golden Tibetan Yaks.

Yes, you're reading that correctly: That man purchased $3,075.99 of Tibetan livestock, totally spun out of his gourd on Ambien. Great times.

This person found this picture on their phone three days after taking 20mg.

Image: TheMax615/reddit

Let's just hope this email didn't cost this Redditor their job.

And finally, there are plenty of examples of texts on Ambien gone wrong.

Be careful out there, Ambien users, and please use your prescriptions drugs as directed. But if you do have a weird experience, share it in r/Ambien.

[h/t: NYMag]