Knicks' Derrick Rose for Ricky Rubio Trade Reportedly Rejected by Timberwolves
Knicks' Derrick Rose for Ricky Rubio Trade Reportedly Rejected by Timberwolves
The New York Knicks reportedly made a last-ditch effort to trade Derrick Rose to the Minnesota Timberwolves in exchange for Ricky Rubio ahead of Thursday's NBA trade deadline. Per ESPN's Marc Stein , the Timberwolves declined the Knicks' one-for-one offer of Rose for Rubio. While most of the trade-deadline focus regarding the Knicks revolved around Carmelo Anthony, Rose seemed to be a more likely candidate to move. He's in the final year of his contract and has been a disappointment in his first season with New York. Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical (h/t Dan Feldman of Pro Basketball Talk) reported on Wednesday the Knicks would have been happy just to get rid of Rose.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Layne Murdoch/Getty Images

Adam Wells Featured Columnist

The New York Knicks reportedly made a last-ditch effort to trade Derrick Rose to the Minnesota Timberwolves in exchange for Ricky Rubio ahead of Thursday's NBA trade deadline.

Per ESPN's Marc Stein, the Timberwolves declined the Knicks' one-for-one offer of Rose for Rubio.

While most of the trade-deadline focus regarding the Knicks revolved around Carmelo Anthony, Rose seemed to be a more likely candidate to move. He's in the final year of his contract and has been a disappointment in his first season with New York.

Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical (h/t Dan Feldman of Pro Basketball Talk) reported on Wednesday the Knicks would have been happy just to get rid of Rose.

"The sense I've gotten from talking to other teams who've talked to New York is they feel like the Knicks would almost give away [Rose] right now," Wojnarowski said.

Stein reported earlier on Thursday the Knicks wanted "an additional piece" from the Timberwolves if they were going to trade Rose.

Rose's tenure with the Knicks has not gone smoothly, though his .053 win shares per 48 minutes on Basketball-Reference.com is his best single-season mark since 2011-12. The team fined him for disappearing before a January game against the New Orleans Pelicans.

Even though the Knicks couldn't pull off a deal to move Rose, he is only under contract with the team for two more months.

Timberwolves head coach Tom Thibodeau knows Rose well from their days with the Chicago Bulls, but with a young nucleus on the fringes of the playoffs in the Western Conference, adding a declining veteran with an expensive contract for two months wasn't going to significantly improve their roster.