Inauguration Singer Jackie Evancho 'Disappointed' in Trump

Inauguration Singer Jackie Evancho 'Disappointed' in Trump // // // // // I am obviously disappointed in the @POTUS decision to send the #transgender bathroom issue to the states to decide. #sisterlove — jackie evancho (@jackieevancho) February 22, 2017 A teenage pop star who performed the national anthem at President Trump's inauguration expressed her dismay at his decision to reserve transgender student bathroom policy for states to decide. Jackie Evancho, 16, who has a transgender older sister, said on Twitter she was "obviously disappointed" that he had decided to revoke federal guidelines implemented by the Obama administration that allowed students to use the restroom of their self-identity. After the official announcement that came around 7:30 p.m. in Washington, Evancho tweeted at Trump that she wanted to meet with him to discuss his decision: "U gave me the honor 2 sing at your Inauguration. Pls give me & my sis the honor 2 meet with u 2 talk #transgender rights," she wrote. . @realDonaldTrump u gave me the honor 2 sing at your inauguration. Pls give me & my sis the honor 2 meet with u 2 talk #transgender rghts — jackie evancho (@jackieevancho) February 23, 2017 A source close to Evancho told the New York Post , “She was the only person brave enough to sing at the Trump’s inauguration, and now she’s being brave enough to stand up to him.” Attorney General Jeff Sessions, apparently leaning on the Tenth Amendment, said in a statement Wednesday, "Congress, state legislatures, and local governments are in a position to adopt appropriate policies or laws addressing this issue." Let us know what you think about Evancho's tweets and watch her inauguration performance .

I am obviously disappointed in the @POTUS decision to send the #transgender bathroom issue to the states to decide. #sisterlove — jackie evancho (@jackieevancho) February 22, 2017

A teenage pop star who performed the national anthem at President Trump's inauguration expressed her dismay at his decision to reserve transgender student bathroom policy for states to decide.

Jackie Evancho, 16, who has a transgender older sister, said on Twitter she was "obviously disappointed" that he had decided to revoke federal guidelines implemented by the Obama administration that allowed students to use the restroom of their self-identity.

Krauthammer to Trump: 'Fix the Vetting' & Forget About Banning Immigration

Judge Nap: How Trump's New Immigration Order Could Be 'Bulletproof'

Hegseth: Protests at GOP Town Halls 'Expose the Left for Who They Are'

After the official announcement that came around 7:30 p.m. in Washington, Evancho tweeted at Trump that she wanted to meet with him to discuss his decision:

"U gave me the honor 2 sing at your Inauguration. Pls give me & my sis the honor 2 meet with u 2 talk #transgender rights," she wrote.

. @realDonaldTrump u gave me the honor 2 sing at your inauguration. Pls give me & my sis the honor 2 meet with u 2 talk #transgender rghts — jackie evancho (@jackieevancho) February 23, 2017

A source close to Evancho told the New York Post, “She was the only person brave enough to sing at the Trump’s inauguration, and now she’s being brave enough to stand up to him.”

Attorney General Jeff Sessions, apparently leaning on the Tenth Amendment, said in a statement Wednesday, "Congress, state legislatures, and local governments are in a position to adopt appropriate policies or laws addressing this issue."

Let us know what you think about Evancho's tweets and watch her inauguration performance.

Christians & Feminists Team Up to Fight Transgender Bathroom Mandate

Report: ICE Opening Facility for Transgender Illegal Immigrants

'It's Not Fair': Transgender Student's Success in Girls Track Causes Backlash