Woman Wearing Anti-Trump Sign Barred From Lincoln Center's David Geffen Hall
Woman Wearing Anti-Trump Sign Barred From Lincoln Center's David Geffen Hall
Woman Wearing Anti-Trump Sign Barred From Lincoln Center's David Geffen Hall  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  A woman is claiming she was barred from attending a performance at New York City's Lincoln Center because she wouldn't remove an anti-Trump sign affixed to the back of her jacket. Jenny Heinz, a longtime Metropolitan Opera and New York Philharmonic subscriber, told that it happened this month at David Geffen Hall when she went to see the Budapest Festival Orchestra. The 8-by-11-inch sign read "No! In the name of humanity we refuse to accept a fascist America." She said she's been wearing it ever since she attended a protest outside Trump Tower in November. "At what point does one draw the line?" Heinz, 72, said. "We're talking about freedom of expression."  Lincoln Center officials refunded Heinz's ticket, though they declined to discuss the incident with the Times. Heinz said the center's vice president for concert halls and operations told her during a meeting with her lawyer that signs were not allowed inside the performance halls or on the plaza.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

President Donald Trump at the White House on Jan. 23, 2017 in Washington, DC.

A woman is claiming she was barred from attending a performance at New York City's Lincoln Center because she wouldn't remove an anti-Trump sign affixed to the back of her jacket.

Jenny Heinz, a longtime Metropolitan Opera and New York Philharmonic subscriber, told The New York Times that it happened this month at David Geffen Hall when she went to see the Budapest Festival Orchestra.

The 8-by-11-inch sign read "No! In the name of humanity we refuse to accept a fascist America." She said she's been wearing it ever since she attended a protest outside Trump Tower in November.

"At what point does one draw the line?" Heinz, 72, said. "We're talking about freedom of expression."

Lincoln Center officials refunded Heinz's ticket, though they declined to discuss the incident with the Times.

Heinz said the center's vice president for concert halls and operations told her during a meeting with her lawyer that signs were not allowed inside the performance halls or on the plaza.