Jameis Winston of Tampa Bay Buccaneers says he made 'poor word choice' in telling female students to 'be silent'
Jameis: Telling girls to 'be silent' poor wording
Jameis: Telling girls to 'be silent' poor wording Best trade every NFL team has ever made Jimmy Garoppolo's edge on the rookie QBs Steelers' offseason mission: Keep offensive trio intact 49ers' John Lynch, Kyle Shanahan meet with Colin Kaepernick NFL quarterback carousel: The likelihood of every possible match Jay Cutler's contract not a trade-killer, but why trade for QB if he'll be released? Joe Banner: If free, Kirk Cousins would become NFL's highest-paid QB Lions could overhaul tight end; Martellus Bennett a potential fit? Terrell Davis getting into Hall of Fame won't make it easier for others DeSean Jackson ponders return to Eagles, eyes another six years DC Gus Bradley says Chargers will feature Joey Bosa's versatility Franchise tag would make Terrelle Pryor NFL's best-paid receiver in 2017 Free-agent market for Victor Cruz will be interesting Watch the Lions' Jimmy Landes trick-snap underneath a camel in Jordan 20 plays every NFL coach should steal 32 NFL players who need a change of scenery Could the Lions draft Christian McCaffrey? NFL insider: Trading No. 1 pick for Jimmy Garoppolo not a crazy idea Mark Dominik, Jim Trotter and Jeff Saturday examine Jameis Winston's word choice while speaking to an elementary school class. (1:41) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Jameis Winston says he made a "poor word choice" in making stereotypical gender comments during a speech at an elementary school on Wednesday. While speaking to third- through fifth-graders at Melrose Elementary in St. Petersburg, Florida, Winston called on the male students to stand up while directing the female students to stay seated. "All my young boys, stand up. The ladies, sit down," Winston said, according to the Tampa Bay Times . "But all my boys, stand up. We strong, right? We strong! We strong, right? All my boys, tell me one time: I can do anything I put my mind to. Now, a lot of boys aren't supposed to be soft-spoken. You know what I'm saying? One day y'all are going to have a very deep voice like this [in deep voice]. One day, you'll have a very, very deep voice. "But the ladies, they're supposed to be silent, polite, gentle. My men, my men [are] supposed to be strong. I want y'all to tell me what the third rule of life is: I can do anything I put my mind to." Winston later tried to clarify that he was trying to motivate a particular student without singling him out. "I was making an effort to interact with a young male in the audience who didn't seem to be paying attention, and I didn't want to single him out, so I asked all the boys to stand up," Winston said, according to the newspaper. "During my talk, I used a poor word choice that may have overshadowed that positive message for some." Winston has worked to rehabilitate his image since his days at Florida State , when he was accused of sexually assaulting a female student in 2012. He was never charged with a crime in the incident, and the university disciplinary committee found insufficient evidence to charge him with violating the student code. But in December, Winston settled a federal lawsuit filed by the woman. Florida State also agreed to pay the woman $950,000 in January 2016 to settle a lawsuit she filed against the school for its handling of her Title IX complaint. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Jameis Winston says he made a "poor word choice" in making stereotypical gender comments during a speech at an elementary school on Wednesday.

While speaking to third- through fifth-graders at Melrose Elementary in St. Petersburg, Florida, Winston called on the male students to stand up while directing the female students to stay seated.

"All my young boys, stand up. The ladies, sit down," Winston said, according to the Tampa Bay Times. "But all my boys, stand up. We strong, right? We strong! We strong, right? All my boys, tell me one time: I can do anything I put my mind to. Now, a lot of boys aren't supposed to be soft-spoken. You know what I'm saying? One day y'all are going to have a very deep voice like this [in deep voice]. One day, you'll have a very, very deep voice.

"But the ladies, they're supposed to be silent, polite, gentle. My men, my men [are] supposed to be strong. I want y'all to tell me what the third rule of life is: I can do anything I put my mind to."

Winston later tried to clarify that he was trying to motivate a particular student without singling him out.

"I was making an effort to interact with a young male in the audience who didn't seem to be paying attention, and I didn't want to single him out, so I asked all the boys to stand up," Winston said, according to the newspaper. "During my talk, I used a poor word choice that may have overshadowed that positive message for some."

Winston has worked to rehabilitate his image since his days at Florida State, when he was accused of sexually assaulting a female student in 2012.

He was never charged with a crime in the incident, and the university disciplinary committee found insufficient evidence to charge him with violating the student code. But in December, Winston settled a federal lawsuit filed by the woman.

Florida State also agreed to pay the woman $950,000 in January 2016 to settle a lawsuit she filed against the school for its handling of her Title IX complaint.