Why NASA's Latest Discovery Matters, PM Modi Most Followed Leader And Other Must Reads
Why NASA's Latest Discovery Matters, PM Modi Most Followed Leader And Other Must Reads
Why NASA's Latest Discovery Matters, PM Modi Most Followed Leader And Other Must Reads Every week, Captain James T Kirk and the crew of the USS Enterprise travelled to distant planets, crossing paths with alien life forms, making new discoveries as they went. While that was a science fiction, the latest discovery by the Belgian telescope TRAPPIST and NASA’s Spitzer and Hubble Space Telescopes is science fact. A group of seven earth-size rocky planets, orbiting an ultra-cool dwarf star, named the TRAPPIST-1 system is probably the most important space find of recent times. In May 2016, TRAPPIST had discovered three planets in the system. Later, the Spitzer telescope discovered that the third planet was, in fact, three different planets and it also found two more in addition. Read more 1. Donkeys Inspire Us, They Are Loyal And Responsible, Narendra Modi Responds To Akhilesh Yadav's Jibe Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a rebuttal to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav's 'donkey' remark. At a rally in Bahraich, Modi said he didn't understand why Akhilesh attacked donkeys and not BJP or Modi. He also said that Akhilesh 'discriminating' against donkeys shows his casteist mentality. Read more 2. Here's The Story Of The Only Woman Ashok Chakra Awardee Who Sacrificed Her Life In Parliament Attack She didn’t have a gun. Traditionally, woman constables aren’t given weapons inside the Parliament premises. But she managed with her wireless set and took on heavily armed terrorists who were there to attack the symbol of Indian democracy - Parliament House. This story is about the only woman Ashok Chakra awardee (Posthumously) Kamlesh Kumari, a CRPF soldier posted at Gate No. 1 of Parliament on December 13, 2001, when terrorists had attacked it. Read more Thousands of people, especially motorists, faced inconvenience on Thursday morning after security forces sealed a busy portion of a national highway on the Haryana-Punjab border that links Delhi with Amritsar. A 24 km stretch of the NH-1 was sealed off on the Ambala (Haryana)-Rajpura (Punjab) section in wake of the Indian National Lok Dal's call of 'Water War'. Read more

Every week, Captain James T Kirk and the crew of the USS Enterprise travelled to distant planets, crossing paths with alien life forms, making new discoveries as they went. While that was a science fiction, the latest discovery by the Belgian telescope TRAPPIST and NASA’s Spitzer and Hubble Space Telescopes is science fact.

NASA

A group of seven earth-size rocky planets, orbiting an ultra-cool dwarf star, named the TRAPPIST-1 system is probably the most important space find of recent times. In May 2016, TRAPPIST had discovered three planets in the system. Later, the Spitzer telescope discovered that the third planet was, in fact, three different planets and it also found two more in addition. Read more

1. Donkeys Inspire Us, They Are Loyal And Responsible, Narendra Modi Responds To Akhilesh Yadav's Jibe

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a rebuttal to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav's 'donkey' remark. At a rally in Bahraich, Modi said he didn't understand why Akhilesh attacked donkeys and not BJP or Modi.

He also said that Akhilesh 'discriminating' against donkeys shows his casteist mentality. Read more

2. Here's The Story Of The Only Woman Ashok Chakra Awardee Who Sacrificed Her Life In Parliament Attack

She didn’t have a gun. Traditionally, woman constables aren’t given weapons inside the Parliament premises. But she managed with her wireless set and took on heavily armed terrorists who were there to attack the symbol of Indian democracy - Parliament House.

Indiatimes

This story is about the only woman Ashok Chakra awardee (Posthumously) Kamlesh Kumari, a CRPF soldier posted at Gate No. 1 of Parliament on December 13, 2001, when terrorists had attacked it. Read more

3. Haryana-Punjab Border Sealed Ahead Of Indian National Lok Dal's 'Water War'

Thousands of people, especially motorists, faced inconvenience on Thursday morning after security forces sealed a busy portion of a national highway on the Haryana-Punjab border that links Delhi with Amritsar.

Indiatimes

A 24 km stretch of the NH-1 was sealed off on the Ambala (Haryana)-Rajpura (Punjab) section in wake of the Indian National Lok Dal's call of 'Water War'. Read more

Don't Miss 454 SHARES 90.3 K SHARES 52 K SHARES 31.6 K SHARES

4. Germany's Largest State To Ban Islamic Face Veil As Minister Thinks It Hinders Communication

Germany’s largest state, Bavaria, is going to ban the full-face Islamic veil in government offices, schools, universities and while driving because leaders believe it hinders with communication.

Reuters

State Interior Minister, Joachim Herrmann, said: “Communication happens not only via language but also looks, facial expressions and gestures.” Read more

5. It's Official, PM Narendra Modi Is The Most Followed World Leader On Facebook!

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has certainly struck a chord with a generation hooked on to social media. According to a study conducted by Burson-Marsteller, PM Modi is now, the most followed leader on Facebook in the world.

Indiatimes

With a whopping 40 million followers on his personal account, Modi is the reigning king of the virtual world. The study lists US President Donald Trump as second, with 20 million followers. The third spot belongs to the PMO's account on Facebook which has 13 million followers. Read more