What will immigration look like post-Brexit?
What will immigration look like post-Brexit?
ritain will need a new immigration system after Brexit. David Cameron failed to deliver on his promise to reduce net migration to the tens of thousands – and it is still not obvious how Theresa May will get any closer to the target. If anything, the latest migration figures show that things are moving in the wrong direction. he Office for National Statistics stresses that an apparent fall in net long-term international migration in the year to September was not “statistically significant”. The figure remained high, at 273,000. There has been a notable decrease in EU8 citizens and non-EU citizens from Africa, the Americas and Oceania, some of which appears to be explained by a fall in foreign students. At the same time, the numbers arriving from Romania and Bulgaria jumped – by 19,000. t looks as if, overall, Britain took slightly fewer high-skilled migrants and slightly more low-skilled. Some 104,000 migrants arrived in the country without a job to go to. Assuming that this is not what the voters want, what will the Government do to correct it? Presumably a new visa system is the answer. Who will administer it? Will there be a preference for attracting PhDs over manual labourers? Will quotas be determined by politically motivated targets or business need? Will domestic workers be up-skilled to fill gaps? These are not questions that need to wait until the end of the two-year EU negotiation for an answer: the Government can start work now. Two considerations are vital. First, any new system must be properly enforced. Secondly, competitiveness must not be allowed to suffer. Brexit is about establishing control over immigration – not driving away talent and ability.

It looks as if, overall, Britain took slightly fewer high-skilled migrants and slightly more low-skilled. Some 104,000 migrants arrived in the country without a job to go to. Assuming that this is not what the voters want, what will the Government do to correct it? Presumably a new visa system is the answer. Who will administer it? Will there be a preference for attracting PhDs over manual labourers? Will quotas be determined by politically motivated targets or business need? Will domestic workers be up-skilled to fill gaps?

These are not questions that need to wait until the end of the two-year EU negotiation for an answer: the Government can start work now. Two considerations are vital. First, any new system must be properly enforced. Secondly, competitiveness must not be allowed to suffer. Brexit is about establishing control over immigration – not driving away talent and ability.