Bannon in Rare Remarks: Trump Is 'Maniacally Focused' on Fulfilling Campaign Promises

Bannon in Rare Remarks: Trump Is 'Maniacally Focused' on Fulfilling Campaign Promises Calls media "the opposition party" in CPAC discussion // // // // // White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and Chief Strategist Steve Bannon joined Matt Schlapp in a panel discussion at CPAC 2017. Priebus said President Donald Trump has brought together the Republican Party and the conservative movement, and now he's focused on implementing his agenda. In rare public remarks, Bannon said that Trump very clearly laid out that agenda in his campaign rallies and speeches. "He's laid out an agenda with those speeches, with the promises he made. And our job everyday is just to execute on that," Bannon said. "And he's maniacally focused on that." Bannon, who formerly ran Breitbart News, said the mainstream media was dead wrong about the alleged chaos of the Trump campaign and transition. He said they are also dead wrong about what's going on in the White House and how Trump is methodically following through on his promises to the American people. Bannon added that it's going to be a fight every single day for President Trump, his team and his supporters because the media's attacks will only increase. He once again referred to the media as the "opposition party." "They're corporatist, globalist media," Bannon said. "They're adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda like Donald Trump has." He said the media coverage is going to get worse and worse as Trump continues to press his agenda. "If you think they're going to give you your country back without a fight, you are sadly mistaken." Bannon ended by calling on the crowd to "have our back" and "more importantly ... [to] hold us accountable for delivering on what we promised." #SteveBannon : "Hold us accountable, hold us accountable to what we promised, hold us accountable to for delivering on what we promised." pic.twitter.com/qbg17ebs8a — FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) February 23, 2017

White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and Chief Strategist Steve Bannon joined Matt Schlapp in a panel discussion at CPAC 2017.

Priebus said President Donald Trump has brought together the Republican Party and the conservative movement, and now he's focused on implementing his agenda.

In rare public remarks, Bannon said that Trump very clearly laid out that agenda in his campaign rallies and speeches.

"He's laid out an agenda with those speeches, with the promises he made. And our job everyday is just to execute on that," Bannon said. "And he's maniacally focused on that."

Bannon, who formerly ran Breitbart News, said the mainstream media was dead wrong about the alleged chaos of the Trump campaign and transition. He said they are also dead wrong about what's going on in the White House and how Trump is methodically following through on his promises to the American people.

Bannon added that it's going to be a fight every single day for President Trump, his team and his supporters because the media's attacks will only increase. He once again referred to the media as the "opposition party."

"They're corporatist, globalist media," Bannon said. "They're adamantly opposed to an economic nationalist agenda like Donald Trump has."

He said the media coverage is going to get worse and worse as Trump continues to press his agenda.

"If you think they're going to give you your country back without a fight, you are sadly mistaken."

Bannon ended by calling on the crowd to "have our back" and "more importantly ... [to] hold us accountable for delivering on what we promised."

#SteveBannon: "Hold us accountable, hold us accountable to what we promised, hold us accountable to for delivering on what we promised." pic.twitter.com/qbg17ebs8a — FOX Business (@FoxBusiness) February 23, 2017

READ: Here's the List of Speakers, Events at CPAC 2017

Hannity at CPAC: For Trump to Be Successful, He Needs Your Help

Here's Why Ann Coulter Gives Trump an 'A+' for His First Month in Office