Skepticism Mounts Over Paul Ryan's Obamacare Fix
Skepticism Mounts Over Paul Ryan's Obamacare Fix
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Japsen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A replacement of the Affordable Care Act announced last week by U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan is considered vague, has an unclear timeline for implementation and would be a serious financial hit to states in how they pay for their share of Medicaid coverage for poor Americans. The said in a report . Meanwhile, some of Ryan’s fellow GOP conservatives see the new House Republican plan as recasting subsidies as tax credits that would still cost taxpayers in providing a replacement for individual coverage expanded under ACA. House Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin meets with reporters on Capitol Hill in Washington in this Feb. 16, 2017 file photo. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite, File) “Expansion states would be faced with the choice of ending Medicaid coverage for the millions covered under expansion, or taking on significant costs they had anticipated would be borne largely by the federal government,” Fitch Ratings senior director Jim Lebuhn wrote in a report following Ryan’s announcement of the policy brief. The ACA expanded Medicaid with 31 states plus the District of Columbia opting to do so through a generous federal funding formula that increased coverage to an additional more than 9 million Americans. About 70 million Americans are covered by Medicaid and its related health insurance for children and low-income adults. But Ryan and Republican House leadership seek to end the generous federal match that under the ACA used 100% federal dollars from 2014 through last year to pay for the expanded Medicaid benefits. , but is still better than the standard federal match of between 50% and 75% that existed before President Barack Obama signed the ACA into law. States received more than $58 billion in federal dollars to provide the additional expanded Medicaid coverage under ACA, Fitch said citing 2015 estimates from the U.S. . Fitch Ratings described the plan Ryan introduced as “still just in conceptual form with many details to be worked out.” But some groups say they have seen enough and see any effort to allow states to use block grants or per-capita caps as a way to control spending are merely ways to cut funding that would harm patients.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

A replacement of the Affordable Care Act announced last week by U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan is considered vague, has an unclear timeline for implementation and would be a serious financial hit to states in how they pay for their share of Medicaid coverage for poor Americans.

The GOP “Obamacare Repeal and Replace” plan “poses risks” and “raises questions for hospital providers,” Fitch Ratings said in a report. Meanwhile, some of Ryan’s fellow GOP conservatives see the new House Republican plan as recasting subsidies as tax credits that would still cost taxpayers in providing a replacement for individual coverage expanded under ACA.

“Expansion states would be faced with the choice of ending Medicaid coverage for the millions covered under expansion, or taking on significant costs they had anticipated would be borne largely by the federal government,” Fitch Ratings senior director Jim Lebuhn wrote in a report following Ryan’s announcement of the policy brief.

The ACA expanded Medicaid with 31 states plus the District of Columbia opting to do so through a generous federal funding formula that increased coverage to an additional more than 9 million Americans. About 70 million Americans are covered by Medicaid and its related health insurance for children and low-income adults.

But Ryan and Republican House leadership seek to end the generous federal match that under the ACA used 100% federal dollars from 2014 through last year to pay for the expanded Medicaid benefits. The federal match under the ACA gradually dwindles to 90% federal dollars by 2020 , but is still better than the standard federal match of between 50% and 75% that existed before President Barack Obama signed the ACA into law.

States received more than $58 billion in federal dollars to provide the additional expanded Medicaid coverage under ACA, Fitch said citing 2015 estimates from the U.S. .

Fitch Ratings described the plan Ryan introduced as “still just in conceptual form with many details to be worked out.”

But some groups say they have seen enough and see any effort to allow states to use block grants or per-capita caps as a way to control spending are merely ways to cut funding that would harm patients.