30 Amazing Products Hairstylists Actually Swear By
30 Amazing Products Hairstylists Actually Swear By
We asked hairstylists from the BuzzFeed Community what products they recommend we should be using to keep our locks looking perfect. Stylists unanimously agreed that you buy salon-brand hair products when possible. However, if you can’t easily access a salon in your area, they also suggested several drugstore and big-box store brands that will still help you maintain healthy hair. A Wet Brush to make detangling wet hair less of a struggle. “Detangling wet hair with a Wet Brush is easy. Also when doing up styles, I use them to back comb because they create a sturdy tease that is easy to comb out.” — Paige N Get a set of three from Amazon for $21.99 .  Verb Sea Spray that will help your curls stay frizz free. “This is the only beach spray that improves my curls and keeps them from frizzing up without being crunchy.” — Lindsay V  Get it from Amazon for $10.76 .  AG Hair Reconstruct to bring damaged hair back to life. “Reconstruct is a miracle for anyone with overly damaged or just really dry hair. At one point, my hair was so damaged by bleaching that it wouldn’t hold a good style. I used this under heat once every couple weeks, and it helped so much.” — Erin H Get it from JCPenney for $21.99 .  Kerastase Initialiste serum that you can use to strengthen and thicken your hair. “Kerastase Initialiste is my must have because it promotes hair growth and actually works. It has truly been my lifesaver since having my baby and losing a lot of my hair.” — Vannesac  Get it from Amazon for $39.99 or Kerastase for $61 .  Paul Mitchell Hot Off the Press , a quick-drying thermal protectant that will keep your locks from getting fried. “Hot Off the Press by Paul Mitchell is everything. It works great as both a working spray and thermal protectant.” — Samantha K Get it from Amazon for $18.27 . Get it from JCPenney for $17.25 .  Moroccan Oil Dry Shampoo , which comes in options for both light and dark hair. “Moroccan Oil Dry Shampoo is so finely milled it makes working it through your scalp super easy. The best part is it doesn’t dry out your ends like so many dry shampoos do.” — SGB Get it from Amazon for $20.90 . Available in Dark Tones and Light Tones .  Design Essentials Edge Control to make sure your hair stays clear of any annoying flyaways. “I just put a little Design Essentials Edge Control in my hands and rub it together then lay the flyaways down with it. It works like hairspray, but it doesn’t leave your hair stiff.” — Sydney C  Get it from Amazon for $11.99 .  Paul Mitchell Twirl Around , which will help your curls stay hydrated — not crunchy and dry. “The biggest challenge for women with curly hair is the product they use becoming crunchy when it dries. But Twirl Around is a cream, not a gel or mousse. It dries soft and defines the curls.” — Ashley  Get it from Amazon for $20.96 or JCPenney for $22.99 .  Matrix Keratindose to give an extra dose of moisture to severely damaged hair. “Keratindose makes damaged hair feel amazing. I also use it on my clients with natural hair. It makes hair so much easier to comb because hair doesn’t tangle at all when you use it.” — Sydney C Get it from Amazon for $20.48 .  Deva Curl No Poo , which leaves your hair soft and clean without stripping away natural oils. “Even if you don’t have curly hair, Deva Curl No Poo works amazingly to naturally break up the oils that naturally build up at the scalp, distributing them down the hair shaft where your hair is the most dry and damaged. It’s a moisturizing, nonlathering formula with peppermint and grapeseed oil. And it stimulates and cleans the scalp and hair without stripping away the natural oils.” — Brittney T Get it from Amazon for $6.65+ . Available in three sizes. A Sam Villa Sleekr flat iron , which has rounded plates to keep your hair from getting snagged. “Sam Villa’s flat irons and wave irons are the absolute best! They are a tad pricey but totally worth the money.” — Samantha K  Get it from Sam Villa for $150 .  Redken Pillow Proof to protect your hair from the extreme heat of blow drying. “Pillow Proof cuts your blow dry time almost in half and protects your hair from heat up to 450 degrees. It won’t weigh down the hair and doesn’t leave any residue from overspraying.” — SGB Get it from JCPenney for $17.99 .  Olivia Garden ceramic brushes , which include a sectioning pick to assist you with thermal styling. “I prefer Olivia Garden’s ceramic brushes for the airflow and heat conductivity. As an added bonus, they have a built-in sectioning pick at the bottom of the handle that you need only to remove, flip, and reinsert.” — Xoroxstar  Get them from Amazon for $13.30+ . Available in three sizes.  Aveda Brilliant Damage Control Spray to keep your hair clear of heat damage while styling or detangling. “It’s weightless and protects hair from heat damage while detangling. And it works with all types of hair!” — Bourbon C Get it from Aveda for $21 .  Unite Blonda Shampoo , which increases the vibrancy of blonde hair and the richness of darker hair. “Blonda is a really cool shampoo. It can be used by blondes to help cancel out unwanted warm tones. It also works really well on dark hair to make it appear darker and deeper. And it smells like grapes, which is a plus!” — Katies 4 Bfae  Get it from Amazon for $21.56 or Unite for $25 . Redone Frizz Dismiss shampoo and conditioner that will be your first line of defense against humidity. “My hair has literally no frizz, and humidity can’t even touch it!” — Liana G  Get the shampoo from Amazon for $23.56 or Ulta for $38 .  Pureology Colour Fanatic 21 Spray , which plays multiple roles in protecting and hydrating your hair — including working as a color and heat protector and detangler. “Pureology Colour Fanatic 21 Spray has a total of 21 benefits and makes your hair feel so soft.“ — Kelsey L  Get it from Amazon for $19.50 .  Alterna Overnight Hair Rescue restores protein to your locks while you sleep. “Alterna Overnight Hair Rescue is loaded with protein and will help repair damage while you rest.” — SGB Get it from Sephora for $38 .  Living Proof Night Cap Protector increases shine and manageability overnight. “Night Cap has transformed my hair and I recommend it to everyone. My hair has grown so much, and it has improved in strength and shine.” — Lindsay V  Get it from Amazon for $18.71 . A Babyliss Rapido blow dryer that delivers unbeatable power. “I love Babyliss blow dryers! They last forever and are super lightweight. It cuts blow-dry time in half for me!” — Alyssa K Get it from Ulta for $189.95 . A Beach Waver Pro curling iron that will let you curl your locks in record time. “The Beach Waver Pro curling iron is by far the best purchase I have ever made. It’s a little pricey, but it cut the time it takes to curl my hair in half!” — Kristen Kaya Get it from Amazon for $199 . Available in two colors.  Invisibobble hair ties that will leave no marks on your hair when you remove them. “I prefer Invisibobbles because they leave no marks and dramatically reduce tension that can lead to headaches and hair loss for regular ponytail wearers.” — Xoroxstar  Get a set of three from Amazon for $6.84 or Sephora for $8 .  Unite Texturiza Spray gives your locks a wavy look with ease. “Texturiza by Unite is awesome, especially for short hair and for when you curl it. It gives your hair that beachy, textured look!” — Katie’s 4 Bfae  Get it from Amazon for $21.60 . A pack of Color Trak Croc Clips that are perfect for separating hair into sections for styling tasks. “Color Trak’s rubberized crocodile clips are perfect for sectioning hair and coloring!” — Bourbon C Get a set of eight from Amazon for $14.16 . A Bio Ionic 10x Pro Styling Iron with vibrating plates that help smooth out and straighten your hair quickly. “I’ve been a stylist for 15 years and anything Bio Ionic is fabulous, especially their 10x Pro Styling Iron. It has embedded volcanic minerals that give superior shine and hydration in just one pass!” — Laylana Zarianl Get it from Amazon for $230 .  Lanza Trauma Treatment and Redken CAT Protein Spray as the perfect rehab for bleached hair. “Lanza Trauma Treatment and Redken CAT Protein Spray are the best things for all my blonde girls out there! If you’re addicted to your bleach like me, these things will save your hair for sure.” — Rilo Get the Lanza Trauma Treatment from Amazon for $17.90 . Get the Redken Cat Protein Spray from Walmart for $17.89 .  Sedu Revolution Straightener and Wigo Straigtening Brush that will straighten your hair without having to use maximum heat. “I just got a Sedu Revolution Straightener and am trying to figure out what my life was without it. Paired with a Wigo Straightening Brush, you will get the sleekest hair of your life while using a low heat. I have thick, curly hair, and I used to have to straighten it using over 400 degrees. But 325 degrees gives me the sleekest and smoothest hair ever.” — Britt Wright Get the flat iron from Birchbox for $130 . Get the straightening brush from Ulta for $18.99 .  Verb Hydrating Shampoo and Conditioner , which are affordable free of damaging chemicals that can harm your hair. “Verb is one of the lines I carry in my salon. A lot of my younger clients buy the shampoo and conditioner because they are cheaper and sulfate-, gluten-, and paraffin-free.” — Terra Michelles Get a set of shampoo and conditioner from Amazon for $24.31 . A YS Park Cutting Comb that can be used for styling or even flat ironing. “YS Park Cutting Combs are heat resistant and strong. I also use them for flat ironing and back combing. I’ve even had a client steal one before!” — Lauren Of Troy  Get it from Amazon for $11.70+ . Available in eight colors. The Big Sexy Hair line of styling products, which offers a range of solutions for your biggest hair needs. “I have been a stylist for about three years now, and I have come to really love the Big and Sexy line. I have almost all of their styling products, including their blow-dryer and flat iron. The line has an array of products that do different things to help my clients with their specific hair needs.” — Terra Michelles You can check out the full line of products at Ulta or Sexy Hair . Want to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts? Follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter ! Want even more great product suggestions? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s Gift Guide Newsletter!

Jenny Chang / BuzzFeed We hope you love the products we recommend! Just so you know, BuzzFeed may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. ID: 10551456

We asked hairstylists from the BuzzFeed Community what products they recommend we should be using to keep our locks looking perfect. ID: 10567628

Stylists unanimously agreed that you should buy salon-brand hair products when possible. However, if you can’t easily access a salon in your area, they also suggested several drugstore and big-box store brands that will still help you maintain healthy hair. ID: 10567620

1. A Wet Brush to make detangling wet hair less of a struggle. amazon.com “Detangling wet hair with a Wet Brush is easy. Also when doing up styles, I use them to back comb because they create a sturdy tease that is easy to comb out.”

—Paige N Get a set of three from Amazon for $21.99. ID: 10546139

2. Verb Sea Spray that will help your curls stay frizz free. amazon.com “This is the only beach spray that improves my curls and keeps them from frizzing up without being crunchy.” —Lindsay V Get it from Amazon for $10.76. ID: 10552443

3. AG Hair Reconstruct to bring damaged hair back to life. jcpenney.com “Reconstruct is a miracle for anyone with overly damaged or just really dry hair. At one point, my hair was so damaged by bleaching that it wouldn’t hold a good style. I used this under heat once every couple weeks, and it helped so much.” —Erin H Get it from JCPenney for $21.99. ID: 10546110

4. Kerastase Initialiste serum that you can use to strengthen and thicken your hair. amazon.com “Kerastase Initialiste is my must have because it promotes hair growth and actually works. It has truly been my lifesaver since having my baby and losing a lot of my hair.” —Vannesac Get it from Amazon for $39.99 or Kerastase for $61. ID: 10552432

5. Paul Mitchell Hot Off the Press, a quick-drying thermal protectant that will keep your locks from getting fried. amazon.com “Hot Off the Press by Paul Mitchell is everything. It works great as both a working spray and thermal protectant.” —Samantha K Get it from Amazon for $18.27. Get it from JCPenney for $17.25. ID: 10546113

6. Moroccan Oil Dry Shampoo, which comes in options for both light and dark hair. amazon.com “Moroccan Oil Dry Shampoo is so finely milled it makes working it through your scalp super easy. The best part is it doesn’t dry out your ends like so many dry shampoos do.” —SGB Get it from Amazon for $20.90. Available in Dark Tones and Light Tones. ID: 10552391

7. Design Essentials Edge Control to make sure your hair stays clear of any annoying flyaways. amazon.com “I just put a little Design Essentials Edge Control in my hands and rub it together then lay the flyaways down with it. It works like hairspray, but it doesn’t leave your hair stiff.” —Sydney C Get it from Amazon for $11.99. ID: 10546111

8. Paul Mitchell Twirl Around, which will help your curls stay hydrated — not crunchy and dry. amazon.com “The biggest challenge for women with curly hair is the product they use becoming crunchy when it dries. But Twirl Around is a cream, not a gel or mousse. It dries soft and defines the curls.” —Ashley Get it from Amazon for $20.96 or JCPenney for $22.99. ID: 10552394

9. Matrix Keratindose to give an extra dose of moisture to severely damaged hair. amazon.com “Keratindose makes damaged hair feel amazing. I also use it on my clients with natural hair. It makes hair so much easier to comb because hair doesn’t tangle at all when you use it.” —Sydney C Get it from Amazon for $20.48. ID: 10546112

10. Deva Curl No Poo, which leaves your hair soft and clean without stripping away natural oils. amazon.com “Even if you don’t have curly hair, Deva Curl No Poo works amazingly to naturally break up the oils that naturally build up at the scalp, distributing them down the hair shaft where your hair is the most dry and damaged. It’s a moisturizing, nonlathering formula with peppermint and grapeseed oil. And it stimulates and cleans the scalp and hair without stripping away the natural oils.” —Brittney T Get it from Amazon for $6.65+. Available in three sizes. ID: 10552416

11. A Sam Villa Sleekr flat iron, which has rounded plates to keep your hair from getting snagged. samvilla.com “Sam Villa’s flat irons and wave irons are the absolute best! They are a tad pricey but totally worth the money.” —Samantha K



Get it from Sam Villa for $150. ID: 10546114

12. Redken Pillow Proof to protect your hair from the extreme heat of blow drying. jcpenney.com “Pillow Proof cuts your blow dry time almost in half and protects your hair from heat up to 450 degrees. It won’t weigh down the hair and doesn’t leave any residue from overspraying.” —SGB Get it from JCPenney for $17.99. ID: 10552428

13. Olivia Garden ceramic brushes, which include a sectioning pick to assist you with thermal styling. amazon.com “I prefer Olivia Garden’s ceramic brushes for the airflow and heat conductivity. As an added bonus, they have a built-in sectioning pick at the bottom of the handle that you need only to remove, flip, and reinsert.” —Xoroxstar Get them from Amazon for $13.30+. Available in three sizes. ID: 10552395

14. Aveda Brilliant Damage Control Spray to keep your hair clear of heat damage while styling or detangling. aveda.com “It’s weightless and protects hair from heat damage while detangling. And it works with all types of hair!” —Bourbon C Get it from Aveda for $21. ID: 10552431

15. Unite Blonda Shampoo, which increases the vibrancy of blonde hair and the richness of darker hair. amazon.com “Blonda is a really cool shampoo. It can be used by blondes to help cancel out unwanted warm tones. It also works really well on dark hair to make it appear darker and deeper. And it smells like grapes, which is a plus!” —Katies 4 Bfae Get it from Amazon for $21.56 or Unite for $25. ID: 10552411

16. Redone Frizz Dismiss shampoo and conditioner that will be your first line of defense against humidity. amazon.com, ulta.com “My hair has literally no frizz, and humidity can’t even touch it!” —Liana G Get the shampoo from Amazon for $23.56 or Ulta for $38. ID: 10552599

17. Pureology Colour Fanatic 21 Spray, which plays multiple roles in protecting and hydrating your hair — including working as a color and heat protector and detangler. amazon.com “Pureology Colour Fanatic 21 Spray has a total of 21 benefits and makes your hair feel so soft.“ —Kelsey L Get it from Amazon for $19.50. ID: 10552412

18. Alterna Overnight Hair Rescue restores protein to your locks while you sleep. sephora.com “Alterna Overnight Hair Rescue is loaded with protein and will help repair damage while you rest.” —SGB Get it from Sephora for $38. ID: 10552613

19. Living Proof Night Cap Protector increases shine and manageability overnight. amazon.com “Night Cap has transformed my hair and I recommend it to everyone. My hair has grown so much, and it has improved in strength and shine.” —Lindsay V Get it from Amazon for $18.71. ID: 10552414

20. A Babyliss Rapido blow dryer that delivers unbeatable power. ulta.com “I love Babyliss blow dryers! They last forever and are super lightweight. It cuts blow-dry time in half for me!” —Alyssa K Get it from Ulta for $189.95. ID: 10552604

21. A Beach Waver Pro curling iron that will let you curl your locks in record time. amazon.com “The Beach Waver Pro curling iron is by far the best purchase I have ever made. It’s a little pricey, but it cut the time it takes to curl my hair in half!” —Kristen Kaya Get it from Amazon for $199. Available in two colors. ID: 10552419

22. Invisibobble hair ties that will leave no marks on your hair when you remove them. amazon.com “I prefer Invisibobbles because they leave no marks and dramatically reduce tension that can lead to headaches and hair loss for regular ponytail wearers.” —Xoroxstar Get a set of three from Amazon for $6.84 or Sephora for $8. ID: 10552422

23. Unite Texturiza Spray gives your locks a wavy look with ease. amazon.com “Texturiza by Unite is awesome, especially for short hair and for when you curl it. It gives your hair that beachy, textured look!” —Katie’s 4 Bfae Get it from Amazon for $21.60. ID: 10552423

24. A pack of Color Trak Croc Clips that are perfect for separating hair into sections for styling tasks. amazon.com “Color Trak’s rubberized crocodile clips are perfect for sectioning hair and coloring!” —Bourbon C Get a set of eight from Amazon for $14.16. ID: 10552424

25. A Bio Ionic 10x Pro Styling Iron with vibrating plates that help smooth out and straighten your hair quickly. amazon.com “I’ve been a stylist for 15 years and anything Bio Ionic is fabulous, especially their 10x Pro Styling Iron. It has embedded volcanic minerals that give superior shine and hydration in just one pass!” —Laylana Zarianl Get it from Amazon for $230. ID: 10552425

26. Lanza Trauma Treatment and Redken CAT Protein Spray as the perfect rehab for bleached hair. amazon.com, walmart.com “Lanza Trauma Treatment and Redken CAT Protein Spray are the best things for all my blonde girls out there! If you’re addicted to your bleach like me, these things will save your hair for sure.” —Rilo Get the Lanza Trauma Treatment from Amazon for $17.90. Get the Redken Cat Protein Spray from Walmart for $17.89. ID: 10552429

27. Sedu Revolution Straightener and Wigo Straigtening Brush that will straighten your hair without having to use maximum heat. birchbox.com, ulta.com “I just got a Sedu Revolution Straightener and am trying to figure out what my life was without it. Paired with a Wigo Straightening Brush, you will get the sleekest hair of your life while using a low heat. I have thick, curly hair, and I used to have to straighten it using over 400 degrees. But 325 degrees gives me the sleekest and smoothest hair ever.” —Britt Wright Get the flat iron from Birchbox for $130. Get the straightening brush from Ulta for $18.99. ID: 10552438

28. Verb Hydrating Shampoo and Conditioner, which are affordable and free of damaging chemicals that can harm your hair. “Verb is one of the lines I carry in my salon. A lot of my younger clients buy the shampoo and conditioner because they are cheaper and sulfate-, gluten-, and paraffin-free.” —Terra Michelles Get a set of shampoo and conditioner from Amazon for $24.31. ID: 10552439

29. A YS Park Cutting Comb that can be used for styling or even flat ironing. amazon.com “YS Park Cutting Combs are heat resistant and strong. I also use them for flat ironing and back combing. I’ve even had a client steal one before!” —Lauren Of Troy Get it from Amazon for $11.70+. Available in eight colors. ID: 10552652

30. The Big Sexy Hair line of styling products, which offers a range of solutions for your biggest hair needs. sexyhair.com / Via Sexy Hair “I have been a stylist for about three years now, and I have come to really love the Big and Sexy line. I have almost all of their styling products, including their blow-dryer and flat iron. The line has an array of products that do different things to help my clients with their specific hair needs.” —Terra Michelles You can check out the full line of products at Ulta or Sexy Hair. ID: 10552437

Want to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts? Follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter! The reviews for this post have been edited for length and clarity. ID: 10553105

Want even more great product suggestions? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s Gift Guide Newsletter!



ID: 10569265