The Trudie Styler puff piece that doesn’t quite add up

he absolute last thing this newspaper would ever want to do is level a cry of “fake news!” at a newspaper owned, until about 10 minutes ago, by Donald Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Even so, my eye is drawn to an interview in the New York Observer with recurring Lost in Showbiz character Trudie Styler , who has directed her first feature film, and spoke to the paper ahead of its debut at the Berlinale last week. Right from the get-go, it’s clear the interview isn’t going to shirk from the tough calls. The intro reads: “British actress Trudie Styler has accomplished so much – movie producer, Oxford grad (maths!), philanthropist, vintner, renovator, mum of four, wife to Sting, yogi – that it’s almost shocking that, at 63, only now is she making her feature directorial debut at the 67th Berlinale with Freak Show . What took her so long? Well, she’s been a little busy living a life full to bursting.” Quite. And yet, may I rewind a bit? Specifically, to “Oxford grad (maths!)”. I am not sure what Kushner’s erstwhile employees are playing at – perhaps the shock of his departure has sent them squiffy – but no such degree was awarded. As Trudie’s most dedicated completist, Lost in Showbiz is as pleased as she will be to clear up this glaring error.

The absolute last thing this newspaper would ever want to do is level a cry of “fake news!” at a newspaper owned, until about 10 minutes ago, by Donald Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Even so, my eye is drawn to an interview in the New York Observer with recurring Lost in Showbiz character Trudie Styler, who has directed her first feature film, and spoke to the paper ahead of its debut at the Berlinale last week.

Right from the get-go, it’s clear the interview isn’t going to shirk from the tough calls. The intro reads: “British actress Trudie Styler has accomplished so much – movie producer, Oxford grad (maths!), philanthropist, vintner, renovator, mum of four, wife to Sting, yogi – that it’s almost shocking that, at 63, only now is she making her feature directorial debut at the 67th Berlinale with Freak Show. What took her so long? Well, she’s been a little busy living a life full to bursting.”

Quite. And yet, may I rewind a bit? Specifically, to “Oxford grad (maths!)”. I am not sure what Kushner’s erstwhile employees are playing at – perhaps the shock of his departure has sent them squiffy – but no such degree was awarded. As Trudie’s most dedicated completist, Lost in Showbiz is as pleased as she will be to clear up this glaring error.