As #DeleteUber rages, Lyft expands to 54 new cities
As #DeleteUber rages, Lyft expands to 54 new cities
Lyft is having a big 2017, both due to reasons of its own making and, um, others . On the Lyft side of things, the ride-hailing app on Thursday expanded its service to 54 new cities and four new states — its biggest launch day ever. That expansion is part of Lyft's goal to enter 100 new cities in 2017. Lyft got started on that goal with a launch in 40 cities in late January, which brought the ride-hailing competitor into three new states. This time, Lyft is adding service in Alabama, Iowa, North Dakota and West Virginia. The goal for Lyft is to move from covering 55 percent of the U.S. population to 72 percent by the end of the year, the company said in January. SEE ALSO: So how many customers actually deleted their Uber accounts? Many of Lyft's 94 new cities from the last two months already have Uber, if they haven't deleted it by now. “In just the first two months of 2017, we’ve introduced Lyft to nearly 100 new cities, thanks in large part to today’s launch,” Jaime Raczka, Lyft's head of early stage markets and expansion, said in a statement. “We look forward to continuing this rapid momentum, bringing Lyft’s safe, affordable rides to even more cities this year.” Here are the cities Lyft is coming to next: Birmingham, Ala. Lakeland, Fla. Ocala, Fla. Pensacola, Fla. Port St. Lucie, Fla. Fort Myers, Fla. Augusta, Ga. Brunswick, Ga. Columbus, Ga. Macon, Ga. Carbondale, Ill. Decatur, Ill Kankakee, Ill. Evansville, Ind. Gary, Ind. Muncie, Ind. Terre Haute, Ind. Ames, Iowa Cedar Rapids, Iowa Davenport, Iowa Des Moines, Iowa Dubuque, Iowa Iowa City, Iowa Sioux City, Iowa Waterloo, Iowa Manhattan, Kan. Topeka, Kan. Springfield, Mass. Pittsfield, Mass. Worcester, Mass. Amherst, Mass. Flint, Mich. Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo, Mich. Midland, Mich. Saginaw, Mich. Mankato, Minn. Rochester, Minn. St. Cloud, Minn. Bismarck, N.D. Fargo, N.D. Grand Forks, N.D. Youngstown, Ohio Amarillo, Texas Huntington, W. Va. Martinsburg, W. Va. Morgantown, W. Va. Parkersburg, W. Va. Eau Claire, Wis. Fond du Lac, Wis. Janesville, Wis. La Crosse, Wis. Sheboygan, Wis. Fredericksburg, Va. BONUS: BMW and LEGO collaborated to create the concept hoverbike of our dreams

Lyft is having a big 2017, both due to reasons of its own making and, um, others.

On the Lyft side of things, the ride-hailing app on Thursday expanded its service to 54 new cities and four new states — its biggest launch day ever. That expansion is part of Lyft's goal to enter 100 new cities in 2017.

Lyft got started on that goal with a launch in 40 cities in late January, which brought the ride-hailing competitor into three new states. This time, Lyft is adding service in Alabama, Iowa, North Dakota and West Virginia. The goal for Lyft is to move from covering 55 percent of the U.S. population to 72 percent by the end of the year, the company said in January.

Many of Lyft's 94 new cities from the last two months already have Uber, if they haven't deleted it by now.

“In just the first two months of 2017, we’ve introduced Lyft to nearly 100 new cities, thanks in large part to today’s launch,” Jaime Raczka, Lyft's head of early stage markets and expansion, said in a statement. “We look forward to continuing this rapid momentum, bringing Lyft’s safe, affordable rides to even more cities this year.”

Here are the cities Lyft is coming to next:

Birmingham, Ala.

Lakeland, Fla.

Ocala, Fla.

Pensacola, Fla.

Port St. Lucie, Fla.

Fort Myers, Fla.

Augusta, Ga.

Brunswick, Ga.

Columbus, Ga.

Macon, Ga.

Carbondale, Ill.

Decatur, Ill

Kankakee, Ill.

Evansville, Ind.

Gary, Ind.

Muncie, Ind.

Terre Haute, Ind.

Ames, Iowa

Cedar Rapids, Iowa

Davenport, Iowa

Des Moines, Iowa

Dubuque, Iowa

Iowa City, Iowa

Sioux City, Iowa

Waterloo, Iowa

Manhattan, Kan.

Topeka, Kan.

Springfield, Mass.

Pittsfield, Mass.

Worcester, Mass.

Amherst, Mass.

Flint, Mich.

Jackson, Mich.

Kalamazoo, Mich.

Midland, Mich.

Saginaw, Mich.

Mankato, Minn.

Rochester, Minn.

St. Cloud, Minn.

Bismarck, N.D.

Fargo, N.D.

Grand Forks, N.D.

Youngstown, Ohio

Amarillo, Texas

Huntington, W. Va.

Martinsburg, W. Va.

Morgantown, W. Va.

Parkersburg, W. Va.

Eau Claire, Wis.

Fond du Lac, Wis.

Janesville, Wis.

La Crosse, Wis.

Sheboygan, Wis.

Fredericksburg, Va.