Indonesia's Child Protection Commission wants compensation for minors jailed in adult prisons



Indonesia's Child Protection Commission wants compensation for minors jailed in adult prisons

Updated

Indonesia's Child Protection Commission has demanded the Australian Government pay compensation to a group of Indonesians allegedly jailed in adult prisons while they were minors.

The central Jakarta District Court has begun hearing a civil class action against the Australian Government, involving 115 Indonesians who crewed asylum boats between 2008 and 2012.

The first hearing was adjourned on Thursday after the Australian Government failed to send any representatives to the court.

Putu Elvina from the Child Protection Commission attended the court hearing and said the group deserved to be compensated.

It is alleged among the group, 31 were jailed in adult prisons in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Brisbane and a further 84 were held in detention centres. All of those involved have since been returned to Indonesia.

"Yes in a sense they have been returned, but from the perspective of child protection with the best interests of the child in mind damage has been done," Ms Elvina told the ABC

"They were detained with the treatment as an adult, they have been exposed to bad treatment, so they deserve compensation. "

The group is seeking $103 million.

'They're scared because they are not criminals'

Muhamad Rasid is among those seeking justice. He alleged he was detained at Silverwater prison in Sydney for a year after being convicted on people smuggling charges, despite only being 16.

"I told them that I am born in 1994 and the officer said to me, 'You are lying'," he said from outside the court.

"I didn't have friends to help me. I had no-one to ask to help me to prove that I was underage."

Muhamad said he was hired as crew member on an asylum boat that was intercepted by Australian authorities on the way to Christmas Island in 2010.

"I would never be able to go to sea again, it's traumatic," he said

"I was deceived."

Muhamad said he was never paid the 20 million rupiah ($2,000) promised to him.

The lawyer leading the class action, Lisa Hiariej, said the minors involved in smuggling were also victims and should have been treated as such.

"Every day they think about what happened in Australia," she said.

"They're scared because they are not criminals."

The Indonesian lawyer, who also practices in Australia, has worked on the case on a pro-bono basis for the past five years and said she had all the birth documents of the 115 men involved.

"They were wrongfully in jail and so they should get compensation and after that [the Government] should apologise to the kids," she said.

The court said it would summon the Australian Government to appear in court during a second hearing set down for May 30.

The ABC has sought a response from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

Topics: courts-and-trials, immigration, world-politics, indonesia, australia

First posted