Devin Booker Told P.J. Tucker He Was Staying Put Right Before Suns Traded Him
Devin Booker Told P.J. Tucker He Was Staying Put Right Before Suns Traded Him
At 1:00 MST, Devin Booker said to P.J. "I told you, you weren't going anywhere." P.J. found out he was traded about 30 seconds after. The NBA trade deadline struck at 3 p.m. ET. Of course, news of some finalized deals occasionally funnels through the grapevine after the window officially closes. At 3:04 p.m. ET, Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported the Phoenix Suns had dealt P.J. Tucker to the Toronto Raptors : Sources: Toronto is sending Jared Sullinger and two future second-round picks to Phoenix for PJ Tucker. If the anecdote from Pac-12 Network's Gavin Schall is to believed, Devin Booker certainly assumed his teammate was staying put. The burgeoning star assured Tucker that the Suns weren't going to move him. Shortly after, news broke of him getting sent to the Eastern Conference contender. Despite averaging a modest seven points and six rebounds per game, Tucker gives the Raptors a valuable perimeter defender who may be tasked with containing LeBron James if they face the Cleveland Cavaliers in a postseason rematch. [ Gavin Schall ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

The NBA trade deadline struck at 3 p.m. ET. Of course, news of some finalized deals occasionally funnels through the grapevine after the window officially closes.

At 3:04 p.m. ET, Adrian Wojnarowski of The Vertical reported the Phoenix Suns had dealt P.J. Tucker to the Toronto Raptors:

If the anecdote from Pac-12 Network's Gavin Schall is to believed, Devin Booker certainly assumed his teammate was staying put.

The burgeoning star assured Tucker that the Suns weren't going to move him. Shortly after, news broke of him getting sent to the Eastern Conference contender.

Despite averaging a modest seven points and six rebounds per game, Tucker gives the Raptors a valuable perimeter defender who may be tasked with containing LeBron James if they face the Cleveland Cavaliers in a postseason rematch.

[Gavin Schall]