Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Jax Jones, R3hab & filous
Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Jax Jones, R3hab & filous
Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Jax Jones, R3hab & filous  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Each week, Billboard Dance looks at songs & albums rising on Billboard's dance charts. UK DJ/producer Jax Jones jumps a spot on 's Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart (dated March 4) with "You Don't Know Me," featuring vocals from Raye (34-33). The track also debuts at No. 48 on Dance Club Songs, where Jones scored a No. 1 in 2014 as a featured act on Duke Dumont 's "I Got U." "You" racked 728,000 U.S. streams and sold 1,000 downloads in the week ending Feb. 16, according to Nielsen Music. Since its Dec. 8 release, the song's incredibly simple but clever video clip (featuring an animated dude on a cereal box) has drawn 28 million worldwide YouTube views and counting. "You" is the second Hot Dance/Electronic Songs hit for Raye, who also sings on Jonas Blue's "By Your Side," which just happens to rank alongside Jones' track this frame, at No. 34 (after peaking at No. 17). Dutch DJ R3hab (real name Fadil El Ghoul) debuts at No. 45 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs and No. 46 on Dance Club Songs with "Trouble," featuring vocalist Verite. The track, which totaled 463,000 domestic streams in the tracking week, is the follow-up to "Icarus," which became the DJ's second career Dance Club Songs No. 1 on Dec. 24, 2016. R3hab, known for his many radio and club friendly remixes of pop hits, first ruled as an artist four years ago as featured on Havana Brown's "Big Banana." So far, "Trouble" is charting without the aid of remixes, with only original and extended versions available to DJs. Austrian electronic producer filous (real name Matthias Oldofredi) fetches a No. 47 debut on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs with "Goodbye," featuring Mat Kearney . The melancholy folktronica-leaning track follows last summer's critically acclaimed "Emelie" by filous and Mount featuring Buster Moe and is the first chart hit for both the Vienna-based producer and singer Kearney (a veteran of 's Christian, rock and adult pop charts). "Goodbye" garnered 554,000 stateside streams in the tracking week.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Each week, Billboard Dance looks at songs & albums rising on Billboard's dance charts.

Jax Jones featuring Raye, "You Don't Know Me"

UK DJ/producer Jax Jones jumps a spot on Billboard's Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart (dated March 4) with "You Don't Know Me," featuring vocals from Raye (34-33). The track also debuts at No. 48 on Dance Club Songs, where Jones scored a No. 1 in 2014 as a featured act on Duke Dumont's "I Got U." "You" racked 728,000 U.S. streams and sold 1,000 downloads in the week ending Feb. 16, according to Nielsen Music.

Since its Dec. 8 release, the song's incredibly simple but clever video clip (featuring an animated dude on a cereal box) has drawn 28 million worldwide YouTube views and counting. "You" is the second Hot Dance/Electronic Songs hit for Raye, who also sings on Jonas Blue's "By Your Side," which just happens to rank alongside Jones' track this frame, at No. 34 (after peaking at No. 17).

R3hab featuring Verite, "Trouble"

Dutch DJ R3hab (real name Fadil El Ghoul) debuts at No. 45 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs and No. 46 on Dance Club Songs with "Trouble," featuring vocalist Verite. The track, which totaled 463,000 domestic streams in the tracking week, is the follow-up to "Icarus," which became the DJ's second career Dance Club Songs No. 1 on Dec. 24, 2016. R3hab, known for his many radio and club friendly remixes of pop hits, first ruled as an artist four years ago as featured on Havana Brown's "Big Banana." So far, "Trouble" is charting without the aid of remixes, with only original and extended versions available to DJs.

filous featuring Mat Kearney, "Goodbye"

Austrian electronic producer filous (real name Matthias Oldofredi) fetches a No. 47 debut on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs with "Goodbye," featuring Mat Kearney. The melancholy folktronica-leaning track follows last summer's critically acclaimed "Emelie" by filous and Mount featuring Buster Moe and is the first chart hit for both the Vienna-based producer and singer Kearney (a veteran of Billboard's Christian, rock and adult pop charts). "Goodbye" garnered 554,000 stateside streams in the tracking week.