Belly & Future Link Up for Trippy 'Frozen Water' Video: Watch
Belly & Future Link Up for Trippy 'Frozen Water' Video: Watch
Belly & Future Link Up for Trippy 'Frozen Water' Video: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Fresh off nabbing a slot for The Weeknd's North American tour, Belly releases his new video for "Frozen Water" with Future. Â Directed by Rollo Jackson, the trippy video finds Belly and Future trading drug-filled verses outside of a motel. The colorful visual features swimmers in heels and fish floating inside of plastic bags.Â For Belly, "Frozen Water" marks the third visual from his 2016 mixtape, following theÂ '90s-themed "Trap Phone" video with Jadakiss and "Re-Up" featuring Nav .  Belly is currently on the road for Juicy J's  Rubba Band Business: The Tour , which will wrap March 18. He'll then join Rae Sremmurd and 6LACK in April for the North American leg of The Weeknd 'sÂ Starboy: Legend of the Fall tour . His collaborator Future willÂ be releasing his second album in two weeks with onÂ Friday.Â Check out Belly's new video below:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Belly in the video for "Frozen Water."

Fresh off nabbing a slot for The Weeknd's North American tour, Belly releases his new video for "Frozen Water" with Future.Â

Directed by Rollo Jackson, the trippy video finds Belly and Future trading drug-filled verses outside of a motel. The colorful visual features swimmers in heels and fish floating inside of plastic bags.Â For Belly, "Frozen Water" marks the third visual from his 2016 Inzombia mixtape, following theÂ '90s-themed "Trap Phone" video with Jadakiss and "Re-Up" featuring Nav.

Belly is currently on the road for Juicy J's Rubba Band Business: The Tour, which will wrap March 18. He'll then join Rae Sremmurd and 6LACK in April for the North American leg of The Weeknd'sÂ Starboy: Legend of the Fall tour.

His collaborator Future willÂ be releasing his second album in two weeks with HNDRXX onÂ Friday.Â

Check out Belly's new video below: