Solar Jobs Aren't What They're Cracked Up To Be
Solar Jobs Aren't What They're Cracked Up To Be
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Michael Lynch       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. SAN RAFAEL, CA - FEBRUARY 26: SolarCraft workers Craig Powell (L) and Edwin Neal install solar panels on the roof of a home on February 26, 2015 in San Rafael, California.  (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) Lately, renewable energy advocates have hailed a DOE report that was misinterpreted as documenting that solar employs more people than oil, coal, and gas combined in the United States. Rather, the report actually stated that solar employs more in the electric power sector In fact, the petroleum industry employs roughly twice as many as the wind and solar industry do, but mostly not in power generation, which uses almost no oil (although a lot of gas). The emphasis on jobs is a reflection of the currency of that topic, as witness the last election.  It’s rather like salesmen who promise their product will solve whatever problem you are experiencing.  Twenty years ago, after American industry had been hard hit by foreign competition (especially from Japan), “competitiveness” was all the rage, and renewables advocates assured us that they would make American companies more competitive.  Books like “Cool Companies” insiste d that “whoever best uses energy efficiency and pollution prevention to lower costs and increase productivity….will achieve a unique competitive advantage….” Similarly, when the Chinese economy was soaring, any number of articles pointed to the Chinese environmental investments as a signpost to what America should do. Typical comments state:  “We argue so much about the silly politics of climate change and fail to recognize the gargantuan economic opportunity that this presents. The Chinese seem to have recognized the significance of this opportunity.” Just as “ Who Killed The Electric Car ” dances around the question of poor quality and performance, solar advocates often embrace tangential issues like jobs, instead of talking about the delivery of electricity.  (True, cost is often discussed, but not honestly. More on that in a later post.) But the large number of solar jobs can be turned on its head, as a number of analysts have done, most notably by saying that the high levels of jobs created by solar represents inefficiency, not the delivery of a needed good (jobs).  As the table below shows, it takes a lot more jobs to produce a given amount of energy than oil and gas do. (Coal and nuclear actually outperform both.)  The measure is imprecise, but for solar, the magnitude of the difference is so great as to make any measurement errors irrelevant. Admittedly, I didn’t live through the Great Depression (the real one, in the 1930s) but a common complaint at that time was that the government was creating ‘ditch-digging jobs’ which were considered a wasteful use of resources.  Which isn’t completely honest because, first, there are times and places where ditch-digging is valuable.  During the Irish Potato Famine, the English hired poor Irishmen to improve the roads by, yes, digging ditches in many cases.  In the U.S., many public buildings were constructed during the Depresson, and infrastructure improved, although some money was undoubtedly wasted.  And you might disparage the cultural programs of the Works Progress Administration, but a lot of good was done, recording personal histories, making archives of songs, and producing some impressive art. Largely ignored is the fact that the number of jobs “created” by subsidies for solar energy actually refers to the gross number of jobs, not the net.  By taking money out of the productive economy and putting it into solar power, jobs are destroyed but in a diffuse way.  Higher electricity prices and taxes on citizens drain money from consumers, reduce consumer spending and thus act as a drain on the economy and employment. But finally, just imagine if you owned stock in an auto manufacturer and they bragged that they used five times as many workers to build cars as anyone else.  Would you hail them as contributing to the nation, or excoriate them for wasting money?  Even more, would you support import restrictions on cars from countries that use less labor per automobiles?  That is what subsidizing solar to produce jobs amounts to. Ultimately, though, the test is the relative value of what is being produced.  No one would suggest paying lawyers to run in giant hamster wheels to generate electricity, as it’s a foolish waste of money.  (Although keeping lawyers busy doing something besides filing lawsuits might be a large externality.)  But where is the line?  Solar advocates often retreat to the argument that externalities cover the additional expense, or that fossil fuels get (an unspecified amount of) subsidies too, but neither argument holds up. And why not take the jobs argument one step further?  Reduce the use of tractors in farming, and introduce workers with hoes.  Bring back the telephone switchboard, remove the ATMs, restore the toll booths!  So much progress could be made if only we applied the same will and logic that the solar industry does.  I’m reminded of the story from early in the last century (I think) of a construction site where a steam shovel was being used to dig a building’s foundation, and a union official storms up to the foreman and says, “You could do the same job with a hundred men using shovels!”  And the foreman replies, “Why not a thousand with teaspoons?”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Lately, renewable energy advocates have hailed a DOE report that was misinterpreted as documenting that solar employs more people than oil, coal, and gas combined in the United States. Rather, the report actually stated that solar employs more in the electric power sector. In fact, the petroleum industry employs roughly twice as many as the wind and solar industry do, but mostly not in power generation, which uses almost no oil (although a lot of gas).

The emphasis on jobs is a reflection of the currency of that topic, as witness the last election. It’s rather like salesmen who promise their product will solve whatever problem you are experiencing. Twenty years ago, after American industry had been hard hit by foreign competition (especially from Japan), “competitiveness” was all the rage, and renewables advocates assured us that they would make American companies more competitive. Books like “Cool Companies” insisted that “whoever best uses energy efficiency and pollution prevention to lower costs and increase productivity….will achieve a unique competitive advantage….”

Similarly, when the Chinese economy was soaring, any number of articles pointed to the Chinese environmental investments as a signpost to what America should do. Typical comments state: “We argue so much about the silly politics of climate change and fail to recognize the gargantuan economic opportunity that this presents. The Chinese seem to have recognized the significance of this opportunity.”

Just as “Who Killed The Electric Car” dances around the question of poor quality and performance, solar advocates often embrace tangential issues like jobs, instead of talking about the delivery of electricity. (True, cost is often discussed, but not honestly. More on that in a later post.)

But the large number of solar jobs can be turned on its head, as a number of analysts have done, most notably by saying that the high levels of jobs created by solar represents inefficiency, not the delivery of a needed good (jobs). As the table below shows, it takes a lot more jobs to produce a given amount of energy than oil and gas do. (Coal and nuclear actually outperform both.) The measure is imprecise, but for solar, the magnitude of the difference is so great as to make any measurement errors irrelevant.

Admittedly, I didn’t live through the Great Depression (the real one, in the 1930s) but a common complaint at that time was that the government was creating ‘ditch-digging jobs’ which were considered a wasteful use of resources. Which isn’t completely honest because, first, there are times and places where ditch-digging is valuable. During the Irish Potato Famine, the English hired poor Irishmen to improve the roads by, yes, digging ditches in many cases. In the U.S., many public buildings were constructed during the Depresson, and infrastructure improved, although some money was undoubtedly wasted. And you might disparage the cultural programs of the Works Progress Administration, but a lot of good was done, recording personal histories, making archives of songs, and producing some impressive art.

Largely ignored is the fact that the number of jobs “created” by subsidies for solar energy actually refers to the gross number of jobs, not the net. By taking money out of the productive economy and putting it into solar power, jobs are destroyed but in a diffuse way. Higher electricity prices and taxes on citizens drain money from consumers, reduce consumer spending and thus act as a drain on the economy and employment.

But finally, just imagine if you owned stock in an auto manufacturer and they bragged that they used five times as many workers to build cars as anyone else. Would you hail them as contributing to the nation, or excoriate them for wasting money? Even more, would you support import restrictions on cars from countries that use less labor per automobiles? That is what subsidizing solar to produce jobs amounts to.

Ultimately, though, the test is the relative value of what is being produced. No one would suggest paying lawyers to run in giant hamster wheels to generate electricity, as it’s a foolish waste of money. (Although keeping lawyers busy doing something besides filing lawsuits might be a large externality.) But where is the line? Solar advocates often retreat to the argument that externalities cover the additional expense, or that fossil fuels get (an unspecified amount of) subsidies too, but neither argument holds up.

And why not take the jobs argument one step further? Reduce the use of tractors in farming, and introduce workers with hoes. Bring back the telephone switchboard, remove the ATMs, restore the toll booths! So much progress could be made if only we applied the same will and logic that the solar industry does. I’m reminded of the story from early in the last century (I think) of a construction site where a steam shovel was being used to dig a building’s foundation, and a union official storms up to the foreman and says, “You could do the same job with a hundred men using shovels!” And the foreman replies, “Why not a thousand with teaspoons?”