Topless protester removed from Le Pen press conference
Topless protester is removed from Le Pen press conference


Security guards were forced to eject a topless protester after she disrupted a press conference held by French presidential hopeful Marine Le Pen.

The woman, from the radical feminist organisation Femen, jumped up from her seat as the far-right politician spoke to reporters and began shouting: 'Marine, fake feminist'.

Bodyguards were quick to remove the protester, who was naked from the waist up, and it took three of them to carry her out of the room.

The protester, who was naked from the waist up, jumped from her seat to disrupt Marine Le Pen's press conference in Paris

Bodyguards were quick to remove the woman who repeatedly shouted 'Marine, fake feminist'

National Front leader Le Pen held the press conference in Paris on Thursday to discuss her foreign policy.

Following the incident, Femen took to its Facebook page to criticise the politician.

The organisation said: 'Nothing in the programme of Marine Le pen promotes the empowerment of women, no proposal was raised to further equality between the sexes.

'Le pen is a fictitious Republican, she's neither feminist, nor secular, nor for the defence of human rights... yet she is a candidate for the presidential election!'

Femen, which was founded in Ukraine but is now based in Paris, has protested against Le Pen in the past.

It took three of the bouncers to carry the Femen activist out as surprised reporters looked on

Femen took to Facebook to criticise Le Pen after the incident, saying the National Front leader was a 'fictitious republican'

In 2015, members of the organisation made Nazi salutes and used a bullhorn to drown out the politician's voice as she gave a May Day speech.

Le Pen told reporters on Thursday that 'my only framework is what is in the interest of France'.

The anti-EU candidate also pledged her full support to US President Donald Trump and said the billionaire's actions have so far been good for France.

She credited Trump with a series of accomplishments, including 'the promotion of a form of intelligent protectionism, of economic patriotism'.

Le Pen praised Donald Trump at the conference and said the US President's actions have so far been good for France

She added that she only had 'reason to rejoice' in Trump's success and that 'there is no international fallout' so far from his presidency.

The incident comes as it emerged Le Pen has increased her lead in the polls ahead of the first round of elections at the end of April.

As it stands she would win 27.5 percent of the vote in the first round, up 2.5 percentage points from the last time the poll was conducted on February 4.

Independent centrist Emmanuel Macron was seen coming in second in the first round with 21 percent of the vote, down one percentage point, followed by conservative Francois Fillon at 19 percent, also down one percentage point.

However Macron is expected to win the second and final round of voting on May 7 beating Le Pen 61 per cent to 39 per cent.

Le Pen may take a hit in the polls as she currently finds herself in the centre of a fake jobs conspiracy.

On Wednesday Le Pen's chief of staff was put under formal investigation as part of a probe into alleged misuse of EU funds to pay parliamentary assistants.

Le Pen denies any wrongdoing.