Iraqi forces take Mosul airport from ISIS
Iraqi forces take Mosul airport from ISIS as troops reclaim the city


Iraq's militarized police forces have entered Mosul International Airport, taking over the runway amid fierce clashes with Islamic State fighters, according to officials.

The advance is part of a major assault that started five days ago to drive IS militants from the western half of Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city.

Two officers said that after police forces pushed onto the airport grounds and seized the runway, they came under heavy fire from inside the buildings at the site, including the main airport building.

The officials would not provide more details but said heavy exchanges were underway. They said troops from the US-led coalition were with the advancing forces, though they didn't specify the nationalities of the foreign forces.

Iraq's militarized police forces entered Mosul International Airport on Thursday. Pictured above, Iraqi army vehicles patrol the airport road which also links Baghdad to Mosul,

The advance is part of a major assault that started five days ago to drive IS militants from the western half of Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city. Pictured above, Iraqi army soldiers test their gear and ammunition ahead of the battle for the airport of Mosul

Iraqi officials discovered an ISIS carbomb at a loading near Mosul airport on Thursday

ISIS fighters have control of west Mosul, while the coalition backed Iraqi Army has control of east Mosul and the south of the city. Iraqi troops, including British SAS fighters, are moving in from the south. On Monday, a British suicide bomber blew himself up in Tal Kisum and ISIS fighters are concentrating defenses on a hill at Albu Saif

The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to reporters.

Private broadcaster Lebanon-based Al-Mayadeen aired live footage from the Mosul airport perimeter, showing a military helicopter buzzing overheard and firing at IS positions as gunfire rattled.

The carbomb that was discovered as officials made their way into the Mosul airport

Special forces troops had earlier on Thursday joined the government offensive to push the militants out of the western half of Mosul, reaching a sprawling, IS-held military base on the city's southern edge as police forces advanced toward the airport.

The airport lies on the west bank of the Tigris River that runs through the city.

From the south, the elite counter-terrorism forces reached the Ghazlani base in the morning hours, officers said, adding that fierce clashes were under way at the base perimeter.

The US troops are not supposed to be doing the actual fighting but in recent weeks have got so close to the front that they have come under attack, coalition spokesman Colonel John Dorrian said.

'They have come under fire at different times, they have returned fire at different times, in and around Mosul,' Dorrian told reporters on Wednesday.

He declined to say if there had been any US casualties in the attacks, but an unnamed official later told CNN that several personnel had been evacuated from the battlefield.

The advances come days after Iraqi forces officially launched the operation to take Mosul's western half, with regular army and federal police forces taking part in the initial push.

Two officers said they came under heavy fire from inside the buildings at the airport. Pictured above, Iraqi army launch a rocket towards Islamic State militants during a battle with Islamic State militants near Ghozlani military complex, south of Mosul, on Thursday

Heavy exchanges were underway at the airport after Iraqi forces entered the complex. Pictured above, Iraqi army launch a rocket towards Islamic State militants during a battle with Islamic State militants near Ghozlani military complex on Thursday

Since the operation began on Sunday, Iraqi forces say they have retaken nearly 50 square miles south of the city.

'The counter-terrorism forces will be an additional force which will expedite the liberation of Mosul's western side,' said Brigadier General Yahya Rasool.

The battle for western Mosul, the extremist group's last major urban bastion in Iraq, is expected to be most daunting yet.

The streets are older and narrower in this section of the city, stretching west from the Tigris River that divides Mosul into the eastern and western half.

The dense urban environment is likely to force Iraqi soldiers to leave the relative safety of their armored vehicles, and the presence of up to 750,000 civilians will also pose a challenge.

The battle for Mosul, backed by the U.S.-led coalition, has already driven the militants from the eastern half the city. Pictured above, Iraqi Federal police deploy after regaining control of the town of Abu Saif, west of Mosul, Iraq, on Wednesday

Two policemen sit atop of their armored vehicle as Iraqi Federal police deploy after regaining control of the town of Abu Saif, west of Mosul, on Wednesday

Mosul fell to IS in summer 2014, along with large areas of northern and western Iraq.

The noose has for months now been tightening around Mosul and the living conditions for civilians are fast deteriorating.

Residents AFP has reached by phone spoke of dwindling food supplies forcing many families to survive on just one meal a day.

Medical workers say the weakest are beginning to die of the combined effect of malnutrition and the lack of medicines, which IS fighters are keeping for themselves.

A smaller than expected proportion of the east side's population fled when Iraqi forces stormed it nearly four months ago but the United Nations is bracing for a bigger exodus from the west.

It had said 250,000 people or more could flee their homes on the west bank and has scrambled to set up new displacement camps around the city.

Since the operation began on Sunday, Iraqi forces say they have retaken nearly 50 square miles south of the city. Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) fires toward Islamic State militants during a battle with Islamic State militants on Wednesday

The battle for western Mosul, the extremist group's last major urban bastion in Iraq, is expected to be most daunting yet. Pictured above, PMF fires toward IS militants on Wednesday