‘The Daily’: A Defiant Display of Conservative Unity
‘The Daily’: A Defiant Display of Conservative Unity
On Thursday afternoon inside a convention hall just outside of Washington, the two most powerful advisers to President Trump — Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus — walked onto a stage and settled into a pair of chairs. One embodies the right wing populism that brought Trump to power; the other the Republican establishment that Trump is now disrupting. Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC In their appearance together on Thursday at the Conservative Political Action Conference , they defiantly opposed the public narrative of a divide between the two of them — and within the conservative movement itself. • Jonathan Martin, who has covered the inside story of both political parties for years, discusses the message sent by President Trump’s top deputies to the party faithful on Thursday: the Republicans are winning the fight — and it a fight. • With “Moonlight” nominated for eight Academy Awards this weekend, Nikole Hannah-Jones has a conversation with its director, Barry Jenkins, about making sense of the world you come from and what it means to leave it behind. Advertisement • Here’s more on the message that Mr. Bannon and Mr. Priebus delivered at CPAC . • Ms. Hannah-Jones writes about the parallel lives of Mr. Jenkins and Tarell Alvin McCraney , who lived in the same poor Miami neighborhood but hadn’t met — until they made one of the year’s best movies. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com . Tweet me at @mikiebarb . And if that isn’t enough, we can even text . The Daily Michael Barbaro will text you about what's happening in the news. I'm Michael Barbaro, host of our new audio report, The Daily. Sign up and I'll send you a daily link to a story (or episode of the show) you won't want to miss. I'll keep it brief, just like the show. Thanks! Talk to you soon. How do I listen? Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link , which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”) Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed .) You can listen and subscribe using the free app RadioPublic, which is available worldwide. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link to play the latest episode and learn more about the app. Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed .) Advertisement Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily . Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.” You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.” THE DAILY: Theo Balcomb, senior producer; Andy Mills, producer; Sam Dolnick, contributing editor; Dan Dzula, sound engineer. NYT AUDIO: Lisa Tobin, executive producer; Samantha Henig, editorial director; Pedro Rosado, director of operations. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

In their appearance together on Thursday at the Conservative Political Action Conference, they defiantly opposed the public narrative of a divide between the two of them — and within the conservative movement itself.

On today’s episode:

• Jonathan Martin, who has covered the inside story of both political parties for years, discusses the message sent by President Trump’s top deputies to the party faithful on Thursday: the Republicans are winning the fight — and it is a fight.

• With “Moonlight” nominated for eight Academy Awards this weekend, Nikole Hannah-Jones has a conversation with its director, Barry Jenkins, about making sense of the world you come from and what it means to leave it behind.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Background reading:

• Here’s more on the message that Mr. Bannon and Mr. Priebus delivered at CPAC.

• Ms. Hannah-Jones writes about the parallel lives of Mr. Jenkins and Tarell Alvin McCraney, who lived in the same poor Miami neighborhood but hadn’t met — until they made one of the year’s best movies.

Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if that isn’t enough, we can even text.

The Daily Michael Barbaro will text you about what's happening in the news. I'm Michael Barbaro, host of our new audio report, The Daily. Sign up and I'll send you a daily link to a story (or episode of the show) you won't want to miss. I'll keep it brief, just like the show. Thanks! Talk to you soon. Yes, please send me messages from NYT The Daily to this phone number. Privacy policy U.S. numbers only. Standard messaging rates may apply.

How do I listen?

If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.

On your iPhone or iPad:

Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”)

Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free.

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

On your Android phone or tablet:

You can listen and subscribe using the free app RadioPublic, which is available worldwide. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link to play the latest episode and learn more about the app.

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

From a desktop or laptop:

Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.

On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:

Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”

On Google Home:

You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”