RBS reports £7bn annual loss, as bank remains in the red for ninth consecutive year
RBS reports £7bn annual loss, as bank remains in the red for ninth consecutive year
oyal Bank of Scotland has warned it will have to cut more jobs and branches before it makes its first profit since the financial crisis, after it slumped to a £7bn loss for 2016. The bank, which is still 72pc owned by the taxpayer, fell to its ninth consecutive annual loss last year, taking its total losses since its £45.5bn rescue in 2008 to about £58bn. In a further blow, chief executive Ross McEwan said the lender will remain in the red this year too - meaning it will have been loss-making for a decade - but that he aimed to return the bank to profit in 2018. It came as Mr McEwan revealed he plans to cut £750m of costs this year as part of a new programme to save £2bn by the end of 2020. He conceded that would mean more job losses and branch closures, but did not give details of how many roles and locations are expected to go. The £7bn net loss compared with a £2bn loss in 2015 and sent RBS shares tumbling 4.5pc to 238.2p. “The bottom line loss is very stark, as is clear to everybody,” admitted Sir Howard Davies, the chairman of the bank. The lender was hit last year by £5.9bn of charges related to historic misconduct issues and potential legal costs, which Mr McEwan described as the “sins of the past”. The charges included a £3.1bn provision in anticipation of the bank reaching a settlement with the US Department of Justice (DoJ) over allegations it mis-sold toxic residential mortgage-backed securities that contributed to the financial crisis. RBS potentially faces criminal and civil action. t also set aside £400m to compensate small business owners that were customers of its controversial, now-defunct Global Restructuring Group between 2008 and 2013, and £601m for the payment protection insurance scandal. Some £2.1bn of restructuring costs also dragged the bank into the red, a figure that included a £750m provision for a plan to boost competition in SME banking that will allow RBS to abandon a problematic disposal of its Williams & Glyn (W&G) business. A divestment of the 300-branch network had been demanded by the European Commission as a condition of RBS’s 2008 rescue, but proved impossible for RBS to achieve because of its antiquated IT systems. Last week, the British Government revealed it was proposing an alternative plan to Brussels, which would result in RBS setting up a fund to help rival challenger banks grow. ncluding W&G, RBS has about 1,550 branches but this will come down under the fresh cost-cutting drive under Mr McEwan, who took home a total of £3.5m last year. Overall bonuses for staff slid 8pc to £343m. The lender has already closed about 450 branches since the end of 2013. Its workforce has also shrunk from 180,000 in 2008 to 80,000, largely through job cuts. There had been speculation in recent weeks that the Mr McEwan, who took the helm in October 2013, could resign. But the RBS chief confirmed today that it was "clearly my objective" to see through the latest round of cost-cuts. Returning to profit in 2018 is dependent on RBS reaching a settlement with the DoJ this year and the European Commission accepting the alternative to a W&G disposal. Those two obstacles are also preventing the Government from selling down its stake. Sir Howard said it had been "frustratingly difficult to make progress” on a settlement. RBS is yet to start negotiations with the DoJ and its final bill could be much higher than the £3.1bn it has set aside. Returning the bank to profit will also pave the way for the lender to resume dividend payments. "There remains work to do before dividend payments can recommence and the UK government can begin selling down its remaining 72pc holding in the stock," said Shore Capital analyst Gary Greenwood.

Royal Bank of Scotland has warned it will have to cut more jobs and branches before it makes its first profit since the financial crisis, after it slumped to a £7bn loss for 2016.

The bank, which is still 72pc owned by the taxpayer, fell to its ninth consecutive annual loss last year, taking its total losses since its £45.5bn rescue in 2008 to about £58bn.

In a further blow, chief executive Ross McEwan said the lender will remain in the red this year too - meaning it will have been loss-making for a decade - but that he aimed to return the bank to profit in 2018.

It came as Mr McEwan revealed he plans to cut £750m of costs this year as part of a new programme to save £2bn by the end of 2020. He conceded that would mean more job losses and branch closures, but did not give details of how many roles and locations are expected to go.

The £7bn net loss compared with a £2bn loss in 2015 and sent RBS shares tumbling 4.5pc to 238.2p.

“The bottom line loss is very stark, as is clear to everybody,” admitted Sir Howard Davies, the chairman of the bank.

The lender was hit last year by £5.9bn of charges related to historic misconduct issues and potential legal costs, which Mr McEwan described as the “sins of the past”.

The charges included a £3.1bn provision in anticipation of the bank reaching a settlement with the US Department of Justice (DoJ) over allegations it mis-sold toxic residential mortgage-backed securities that contributed to the financial crisis. RBS potentially faces criminal and civil action.