These are the weirdest things you'll find in Russia's 'patriotic theme park'
These are the weirdest things you'll find in Russia's 'patriotic theme park'
On Wednesday, Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu announced plans to build a replica of the Reichstag building. The fall of Berlin in 1945 and the storming of the Reichstag by Russian troops marks a point of historical pride, and underpins much of the Kremlin’s nationalist rhetoric. Shoigu said: We are constructing the Reichstag in Patriot Park… Now our Youth Army guys can storm not just any old thing but the actual building. Here are some of the things that will reportedly feature in the park:   You know, for storming purposes.   Maybe COD but Russian? And for children?   Because at this point, why not?    The replica is for the Youth Army, which was created in 2015 to provide military training and ‘patriotic education’ to children as young as ten. It is yet unclear whether it will be open for everyone. Because adults might want to play too.                    Keep scrolling for next article

Nothing says playground fun like re-enacting a Soviet-style assault on a building... Right?

On Wednesday, Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu announced plans to build a replica of the Reichstag building.

The fall of Berlin in 1945 and the storming of the Reichstag by Russian troops marks a point of historical pride, and underpins much of the Kremlin’s nationalist rhetoric.

Shoigu said:

We are constructing the Reichstag in Patriot Park… Now our Youth Army guys can storm not just any old thing but the actual building.

Here are some of the things that will reportedly feature in the park:

A Reichstag Replica

You know, for storming purposes.

Military - themed video games

Maybe COD but Russian? And for children?

World War II Era army positions

Because at this point, why not?

A forest guerrilla base





The replica is for the Youth Army, which was created in 2015 to provide military training and ‘patriotic education’ to children as young as ten.

It is yet unclear whether it will be open for everyone.

Because adults might want to play too.

HT Associated Press

More: Russia's government has launched its own 'Fake News' busting project

More: Russia keeps banning porn