New York Times Releases New Ad Campaign Entitled ‘The Truth’
New York Times Releases New Ad Campaign Entitled 'The Truth'
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Amid growing hostility between the media and the Trump administration, on Wednesday unveiled a new advertising campaign entitled ‘The Truth,’ promising to provide factual journalism when the truth is hard to come by. The advertisement will air during the Academy Awards coverage this Sunday, as the company seeks to assert itself as the leading voice against the President Trump’s new administration. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER The advertisement lists a range of subjective statements preceded by the words ‘The Truth Is,’ such as “the truth is alternative facts are lies,” “the truth is a woman should dress like a woman,” and “the truth is the media is dishonest.” It ends with the words “The truth is hard/the truth is hard to know/the truth is more important than ever,” before closing to the newspaper’s logo. Donald Trump has repeatedly criticized the for propagating what he argues is fake news, describing the newspaper and other mainstream media organizations as the “enemy of the American people.” The FAKE NEWS media (failing @nytimes , @NBCNews , @ABC , @CBS , @CNN ) is not my enemy, it is the enemy of the American People! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 17, 2017 This week, the s liberal competitor, also unveiled a new marketing ploy, changing their company slogan to ‘Democracy Dies in Darkness.’

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Amid growing hostility between the media and the Trump administration, The New York Times on Wednesday unveiled a new advertising campaign entitled ‘The Truth,’ promising to provide factual journalism when the truth is hard to come by.

The advertisement will air during the Academy Awards coverage this Sunday, as the company seeks to assert itself as the leading voice against the President Trump’s new administration.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

The advertisement lists a range of subjective statements preceded by the words ‘The Truth Is,’ such as “the truth is alternative facts are lies,” “the truth is a woman should dress like a woman,” and “the truth is the media is dishonest.”

It ends with the words “The truth is hard/the truth is hard to know/the truth is more important than ever,” before closing to the newspaper’s logo.

Donald Trump has repeatedly criticized the Times for propagating what he argues is fake news, describing the newspaper and other mainstream media organizations as the “enemy of the American people.”

This week, the Times’s liberal competitor, The Washington Post, also unveiled a new marketing ploy, changing their company slogan to ‘Democracy Dies in Darkness.’

You can follow Ben Kew on Facebook, on Twitter at @ben_kew, or email him at bkew@breitbart.com