Caitlyn Jenner slams Donald Trump's ruling over transgender bathrooms
Caitlyn Jenner slams Donald Trump's ruling over transgender bathrooms 
aitlyn Jenner has strongly criticised the Trump administration's decision to overturn federal protections for transgender school students, describing the move as a "disaster". In a video message released via social media, the transgender Olympian and reality TV star reserved her sharpest words for attorney general Jeff Sessions, who has opposed the expansion of gay, lesbian and transgender rights. “I have a message for the trans kids of America,” Jenner says in the Twitter video. “You’re winning. I know it doesn’t feel like it today and every day, but you’re winning.” “Now I have a message for the bullies,” she continues. “You’re sick. And because you’re weak you pick on kids, you pick on women or anyone else you think is vulnerable. Apparently, even becoming the attorney general isn’t enough to cure some people of their insecurities.” On Wednesday the Trump administration overturned a directive that instructed schools to allow transgender pupils them to use bathrooms and locker rooms matching their gender identities. ithout the Obama directive, it will be up to states and school districts to interpret federal anti-discrimination law and determine whether students should have access to restrooms in accordance with their expressed gender identity and not just their biological sex. Ms Jenner, a Republican supporter, ends the video saying: "Finally I have a message for President Trump, from, well, one Republican to another. "This is a disaster. And you can still fix it. You made a promise to protect the LGBTQ community. Call me." he reversal is a setback for transgender rights groups, which had been urging Mr Trump to keep the guidelines in place . Advocates say federal law will still prohibit discrimination against students based on their gender or sexual orientation. "Reversing this guidance tells trans kids that it's OK with the Trump administration and the department of education for them to be abused and harassed at school for being trans," said American federation of teachers president Randi Weingarten.

Caitlyn Jenner has strongly criticised the Trump administration's decision to overturn federal protections for transgender school students, describing the move as a "disaster".

In a video message released via social media, the transgender Olympian and reality TV star reserved her sharpest words for attorney general Jeff Sessions, who has opposed the expansion of gay, lesbian and transgender rights.

“I have a message for the trans kids of America,” Jenner says in the Twitter video. “You’re winning. I know it doesn’t feel like it today and every day, but you’re winning.”

“Now I have a message for the bullies,” she continues. “You’re sick. And because you’re weak you pick on kids, you pick on women or anyone else you think is vulnerable. Apparently, even becoming the attorney general isn’t enough to cure some people of their insecurities.”

On Wednesday the Trump administration overturned a directive that instructed schools to allow transgender pupils them to use bathrooms and locker rooms matching their gender identities.