Beyonce Drops Out of Coachella Performance
Beyonce Drops Out of Coachella Performance
Beyoncé will not perform at Coachella in April, but will headline the festival in 2018, reports. The pop star is pregnant with twins and, per a statement from her label, Parkwood Entertainment, and Coachella organizers, Goldenvoice, decided to pull out of the festival "following the advice of her doctors to keep a less rigorous schedule in the coming months." A replacement for Beyoncé has yet to be announced. The singer notably would have been the first female act to headline Coachella since Björk in 2007. Radiohead and Kendrick Lamar are still set to headline the festival, which will take place in Indio, California over two weekends, April 14th through 16th, and the 21st through 23rd. Beyoncé announced she and husband Jay Z were pregnant with twins February 1st with a post on Instagram. Weeks later, she appeared at the Grammys, where she performed "Love Drought" and "Sandcastles" from her 2016 album, . Beyoncé was also nominated for nine awards and took home two, Best Music Video for "Formation" and Best Urban Contemporary Album for . Related Content: Inside the Sex Party That Lets Straight Women Be Gay for a Night See Lillie Mae's First Video From Jack White-Produced Album Depeche Mode Reject Alt-Right Leader's Band Praise

Beyoncé will not perform at Coachella in April, but will headline the festival in 2018, The Associated Press reports.

The pop star is pregnant with twins and, per a statement from her label, Parkwood Entertainment, and Coachella organizers, Goldenvoice, decided to pull out of the festival "following the advice of her doctors to keep a less rigorous schedule in the coming months."

A replacement for Beyoncé has yet to be announced. The singer notably would have been the first female act to headline Coachella since Björk in 2007. Radiohead and Kendrick Lamar are still set to headline the festival, which will take place in Indio, California over two weekends, April 14th through 16th, and the 21st through 23rd.

Beyoncé announced she and husband Jay Z were pregnant with twins February 1st with a post on Instagram. Weeks later, she appeared at the Grammys, where she performed "Love Drought" and "Sandcastles" from her 2016 album, Lemonade. Beyoncé was also nominated for nine awards and took home two, Best Music Video for "Formation" and Best Urban Contemporary Album for Lemonade.

Related Content: