This Gran Can: Reckon you're too old to get fit? These middle-aged women will make you think again
This Gran Can: Reckon you're too old to get fit? These middle-aged women will make you think again
wo years ago, This Girl Can burst onto our screens . The campaign, launched by Sport England where I am CEO,  showed, for the first time, women of all shapes, sizes and abilities playing sport – with all the sweating, jiggling and effort it takes in real life. Grace, Alice, Ruby and all the women we featured in our posters and TV ads have inspired 2.8 million women and girls to become more active. A massive 600,000 people went online to share their experiences, and many of them were inspired to support one another. We were overwhelmed by the positive reaction . But the judgment many women feel around sport hasn't magically evaporated. ’m typing this blog on a packed commuter train, and the two young women sitting opposite me are talking about the boxing class they’ve just started; the main theme being that they are "absolutely rubbish." Our research backs this up . Women worry about not being fit enough, expert enough, not 'looking right' and not 'fitting in'. Not to mention the balance between work, family and other responsibilities that leave us with a hundred things to do at any given moment and sends taking the time to get a bit fitter hurtling to the bottom of the list. That brings us to the second phase of our campaign, which launches today. e wanted to recognise how women’s lives change. Having a baby can make you feel like a completely different person. Getting older – particularly as you hit the menopause – can reinforce all those fears of judgment many times over. I vividly remember the first time I found myself gradually turning scarlet in an important meeting for no apparent reason. When it kept happening, things like going for a run or stripping off in a gym changing room suddenly got a whole lot harder. So this time we want to speak not only to women aged 14 to 40, but those aged 14 to 60-plus. ue, 69, swims outdoors almost every day of the year - come rain, shine, or freezing temperatures. Now, she's the star of our new poster campaign, featuring her mantra: “My alarm clock is set for 6 degrees C”. She is joined by Catherine , who at the age of 60 used to walk past the military fitness class in her local park every day, wondering whether to join. The voice in her head told her she was "too old" - but she finally found the courage to give it a go. Seven years on, she goes three times a week, and in her own words “does everything the class demands, just sometimes a little slower than others.” Sport is often presented as something absolute – you do it or you don’t. But real life isn’t like that. Most of us stop and start – skip a session or two, or even 10. That’s normal. But hardly anyone says that it’s OK to take a break, have a week off, or walk instead of run sometimes. t can feel like the hardest thing in the world to return after a few weeks off, when you fear you’ve lost ground or fitness. When you go back, you need to feel "this is great" - not as though people are saying "where have you been?" or even worse "you don’t belong here." That’s why you’ll see women like Stacey, who hated the exercise class she tried with a friend so much that she gave up there and then. Six months later, she decided to give it another try and now attends regularly - but doesn’t beat herself up if she misses a class. In the new TV advert you will see her putting on her lipstick before she goes along  – a shot that made me want to cheer when I first saw it. I hope the posters, the TV ad and most importantly the women and girls who are featured in them make you feel like that, too.

Two years ago, This Girl Can burst onto our screens. The campaign, launched by Sport England where I am CEO, showed, for the first time, women of all shapes, sizes and abilities playing sport – with all the sweating, jiggling and effort it takes in real life.

Grace, Alice, Ruby and all the women we featured in our posters and TV ads have inspired 2.8 million women and girls to become more active. A massive 600,000 people went online to share their experiences, and many of them were inspired to support one another. We were overwhelmed by the positive reaction.

But the judgment many women feel around sport hasn't magically evaporated.