Suspect in Kim Jong-nam assassination posed in flowery bikini at motor show
Suspect in Kim Jong-nam assassination posed in flowery bikini at motor show
new picture has emerged of the Vietnamese woman suspected of helping to kill North Korean leader Kim Jong-un's half-brother in Malaysia , posing on a motorbike in a bikini. Doan Thi Huong worked at an entertainment outlet, according to Malaysian police, who arrested her along with an Indonesian woman over the murder of Kim Jong-nam last week. Huong is a keen singer whose Facebook pages feature pouting portraits and pictures of parties. Four days before Kim Jong Nam was killed at a Malaysian airport, she appears to have posted a picture of herself wearing a shirt emblazoned with the acronym "LOL", similar to the one on the fleeing suspect caught on CCTV cameras. The latest picture of Huong to emerge shows her posing in a flowery white bikini and twirling her hair flirtatiously. It is understood she was working at a motor show in Hanoi, Vietnam. n a rice farm in northern Vietnam, the family whose daughter's details match those from Malaysian police said it rarely knew where she was since she left home a decade ago aged 18. The last post on a Facebook page in the name of "Ruby Ruby", which family members confirmed to be one of Huong's accounts, is dated Feb. 11 from Kampong Besut, Malaysia. "I want to sleep more but by your side," the post reads above a picture of her, eyes closed and wrapped up in bed. Of 65 friends on the "Ruby Ruby" Facebook page, 27 have Korean names. Fifty six of the friends are men. er profile picture shows Huong wearing a red cut-out swimsuit at a pool. Other photos are selfies taken in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, and in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, a few days before Kim Jong Nam was attacked at the city's airport by two women who rubbed his face with apparent poison. alaysian police have said Huong and an Indonesian woman wiped a liquid, containing a toxic substance, now believed to be VX nerve agent - a chemical weapon - on Kim Jong-nam's face at Kuala Lumpur's budget air terminal on February 13. The estranged half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un died soon afterwards. Huong was described by police as an "entertainment outlet employee", but they did not give details of where she had been employed or what her immigration status was.

A new picture has emerged of the Vietnamese woman suspected of helping to kill North Korean leader Kim Jong-un's half-brother in Malaysia, posing on a motorbike in a bikini.

Doan Thi Huong worked at an entertainment outlet, according to Malaysian police, who arrested her along with an Indonesian woman over the murder of Kim Jong-nam last week.

Huong is a keen singer whose Facebook pages feature pouting portraits and pictures of parties. Four days before Kim Jong Nam was killed at a Malaysian airport, she appears to have posted a picture of herself wearing a shirt emblazoned with the acronym "LOL", similar to the one on the fleeing suspect caught on CCTV cameras.

The latest picture of Huong to emerge shows her posing in a flowery white bikini and twirling her hair flirtatiously. It is understood she was working at a motor show in Hanoi, Vietnam.