Paul Pierce to Draymond Green: '3-1 lead oops'
Paul Pierce to Draymond Green: '3-1 lead oops'
Paul Pierce to Draymond Green: '3-1 lead oops' Barnwell's 5 moves for all 32 NFL teams NFL quarterback carousel: The likelihood of every possible match Rob Gronkowski hopes Martellus Bennett 'breaks the bank' Panthers fill need for pass rushing end by re-signing Mario Addison Matt Elam's arrest secures his place as Ravens' worst first-round pick Assessing Jets' quarterback options, from Mike Glennon to Jimmy G History says Broncos will meet most of 2017 draft class at combine If released, Jamaal Charles could be intriguing option for Eagles Could the Colts release Dwayne Allen and pursue Martellus Bennett? Cam Newton, Dak Prescott show combine scouting isn't exact science Darrelle Revis' arrest, one week later: Many questions, no answers, one video Chiefs have little to lose by signing veteran RB C.J. Spiller Twitter mailbag: If the Cowboys go big in free agency Cardinals GM 'would've bet' Carson Palmer, Larry Fitzgerald would be back Bengals could draft RB early even with Jeremy Hill, Giovani Bernard Josh Doctson increases work as he recovers from Achilles issues One month later, Ben Roethlisberger still silent on future Should Vikings wait on a Sam Bradford contract, or do one soon? Eric Berry should edge Tyreek Hill for Chiefs MVP Chargers searching for a Tyreek Hill-type player to spark return game Examining potential impact of Dolphins losing Kenny Stills in free agency Jimmy Garoppolo's edge on the rookie QBs Should Raiders re-sign Perry Riley Jr.? Larry Fitzgerald unhappy Cardinals are playing in Hall of Fame game Joe Banner: If free, Kirk Cousins would become NFL's highest-paid QB Draymond Green taunts Paul Pierce about his farewell tour, or lack thereof, from the line early in the first quarter. (0:23) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment In a verbal exchange picked up during the broadcast of Thursday night's battle between rivals Golden State Warriors and LA Clippers , silver-tongued All-Star forward Draymond Green was more than happy to remind soon-to-be-retired superstar Paul Pierce he "can't get no farewell tour," telling him, "They don't love you like that. You thought you was Kobe?" Early this morning, "The Truth" fired back with a vicious subtweet that's lighting up the Twitter-sphere today: 73 wins and u thought u was gonna win a title that yr 😂😂😂3-1 lead oops — Paul Pierce (@paulpierce34) February 24, 2017 The Warriors can still point to the scoreboard, though. Their comeback win over the Clippers last night at Oracle Arena, highlighted by a 50-point third-quarter explosion, was their 10th straight win over their heated adversaries dating back to the 2014-15 season. It's the second straight season Golden State has swept the season series. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Draymond Green taunts Paul Pierce about his farewell tour, or lack thereof, from the line early in the first quarter. (0:23)

In a verbal exchange picked up during the broadcast of Thursday night's battle between rivals Golden State Warriors and LA Clippers, silver-tongued All-Star forward Draymond Green was more than happy to remind soon-to-be-retired superstar Paul Pierce he "can't get no farewell tour," telling him, "They don't love you like that. You thought you was Kobe?"

Early this morning, "The Truth" fired back with a vicious subtweet that's lighting up the Twitter-sphere today:

73 wins and u thought u was gonna win a title that yr 😂😂😂3-1 lead oops — Paul Pierce (@paulpierce34) February 24, 2017

The Warriors can still point to the scoreboard, though. Their comeback win over the Clippers last night at Oracle Arena, highlighted by a 50-point third-quarter explosion, was their 10th straight win over their heated adversaries dating back to the 2014-15 season. It's the second straight season Golden State has swept the season series.

-- Brendan C. Hall