On Maha Shivaratri PM Modi Inaugurates 112- Feet Tall Adiyogi Statue!
On Maha Shivaratri PM Modi Inaugurates 112- Feet Tall Adiyogi Statue!
On Maha Shivaratri PM Modi Inaugurates 112- Feet Tall Adiyogi Statue! Prime Minister Narendra Modi has unveiled the 112-feet tall Adiyogi Shiva statue installed by Isha Foundation in the foothills of Velliangiri mountains at Coimbatore. The unveiling of the statue is part of a grand celebration planned at the venue by the Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev’s Isha Foundation on the occasion of Maha Shivratri. The bust, made of steel, weighs 500 tonnes and it took 2.5 years to design it and in eight months to build it. This is the tallest Shiva bust in the planet, recognising the first yogi's unparalleled contribution to humanity. The iconic bust symbolises liberation, representing the 112 ways in which one can attain to one's ultimate through the science of yoga. As a tribute to Adiyogi, the Prime Minister also lighted the sacred fire to commence the Maha Yoga Yagna across the world. The massive structure had run into controversy over allegations of illegal construction and environmental threats. A PIL in the Madras High Court has challenged clearance for constructing the bust by Isha Foundation. It claims the catchment area of the Noyyal river is being obstructed by the construction. It says the bust adversely affects biodiversity and violates building bylaws. A few environmental groups and political outfits had asked PM Modi not to attend the event and also threatened to stage protests. However, Isha Foundation says it has got all the necessary approvals for construction.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has unveiled the 112-feet tall Adiyogi Shiva statue installed by Isha Foundation in the foothills of Velliangiri mountains at Coimbatore.

Isha Foundation

The unveiling of the statue is part of a grand celebration planned at the venue by the Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev’s Isha Foundation on the occasion of Maha Shivratri.

The bust, made of steel, weighs 500 tonnes and it took 2.5 years to design it and in eight months to build it.

Isha Foundation

This is the tallest Shiva bust in the planet, recognising the first yogi's unparalleled contribution to humanity. The iconic bust symbolises liberation, representing the 112 ways in which one can attain to one's ultimate through the science of yoga.

As a tribute to Adiyogi, the Prime Minister also lighted the sacred fire to commence the Maha Yoga Yagna across the world.

Isha Foundation

The massive structure had run into controversy over allegations of illegal construction and environmental threats.

A PIL in the Madras High Court has challenged clearance for constructing the bust by Isha Foundation. It claims the catchment area of the Noyyal river is being obstructed by the construction. It says the bust adversely affects biodiversity and violates building bylaws.

BCCL

A few environmental groups and political outfits had asked PM Modi not to attend the event and also threatened to stage protests. However, Isha Foundation says it has got all the necessary approvals for construction.

Don't Miss 16.3 K SHARES 53 K SHARES 39.2 K SHARES 25.8 K SHARES