Watch 'The Voice' Coaches Cover TLC's 'Waterfalls'
Watch 'The Voice' Coaches Cover TLC's 'Waterfalls'
Here Are the Best & Worst Moments From the 2017 Oscars Oscars 2017: See the Full Winners List 2017 Oscars Red Carpet & More: See All The Photos! Oscars 2017 Best Picture Flub: Katy Perry, Questlove and More React Watch 'The Voice' Coaches Cover TLC's 'Waterfalls'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  Alicia Keys, Adam Levine, Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton make for quite the '90s cover. Before season 12 of NBC's premieres next Monday (Feb. 27), Alicia Keys , Blake Shelton , Gwen Stefani, and Adam Levine come together for anÂ acoustic version of TLC's 1994 classic "Waterfalls."Â With Shelton and Levine holding downÂ guitar duty, Keys and Stefani anchor the track with their vocals. The ladies then team up to deliver a portion of late rapper Lisa "Left Eye" Lopes' verse. Once Stefani wraps up Left Eye's part, theÂ quartet unite for a silky rendition of TLC's timeless chorus. Towards the end of the colorful jam session, Levine exuberantly shouts "I love that. That was it. Whatever that was, that was awesome. That's how you sing, America!" Season 12 will mark Stefani's return to Â after missing the previous two, replacing Miley Cyrus. Last year, PaulÂ Telegdy, president of Alternative and Reality Group at NBC Entertainment, revealed the show's decision to bring back Stefani, while also keeping Cyrus in the fold for season 13.Â  "We can't wait to experience the unique chemistry and energy Gwen, Alicia, Blake and Adam will bring to season 12," he said in a statement to . "With Miley returning for season 13, we're truly ecstatic about the unmatched musical know-how and talent coming together in our coming seasons."Â Tune in Monday night (Feb. 27) at 8 p.m. ET for the premiere of NBC'sÂ and check out the cast's rendition of "Waterfalls"Â below.Â

Watch 'The Voice' Coaches Cover TLC's 'Waterfalls'

Alicia Keys, Adam Levine, Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton make for quite the '90s cover.

Before season 12 of NBC's The Voice premieres next Monday (Feb. 27), Alicia Keys, Blake Shelton, Gwen Stefani, and Adam Levine come together for anÂ acoustic version of TLC's 1994 classic "Waterfalls."Â

With Shelton and Levine holding downÂ guitar duty, Keys and Stefani anchor the track with their vocals. The ladies then team up to deliver a portion of late rapper Lisa "Left Eye" Lopes' verse. Once Stefani wraps up Left Eye's part, theÂ quartet unite for a silky rendition of TLC's timeless chorus. Towards the end of the colorful jam session, Levine exuberantly shouts "I love that. That was it. Whatever that was, that was awesome. That's how you sing, America!"

Season 12 will mark Stefani's return to The VoiceÂ after missing the previous two, replacing Miley Cyrus. Last year, PaulÂ Telegdy, president of Alternative and Reality Group at NBC Entertainment, revealed the show's decision to bring back Stefani, while also keeping Cyrus in the fold for season 13.Â

"We can't wait to experience the unique chemistry and energy Gwen, Alicia, Blake and Adam will bring to season 12," he said in a statement to E!. "With Miley returning for season 13, we're truly ecstatic about the unmatched musical know-how and talent coming together in our coming seasons."Â

Tune in Monday night (Feb. 27) at 8 p.m. ET for the premiere of NBC'sÂ The VoiceÂ and check out the cast's rendition of "Waterfalls"Â below.Â