Police Find $1.2 Million Worth of Weed in Old Nuclear Bunker
Police Find $1.2 Million Worth of Weed in Old Nuclear Bunker
You've probably heard of people going to enormous lengths to hide their drug manufacturing operations; hell, showcased how easy it was to produce and sell meth via a successful fried chicken franchise. Never have we seen an operation quite like this spot that got raided in southwest London overnight. According to a Facebook post from the Wiltshire Police , officials hit the jackpot when they raided an underground shelter with the Chilmark Regional Government Headquarters. Detective Inspector Paul Franklin said, "There are approximately 20 rooms in the building, split over two floors, each 200 ft. long and 70 ft. wide. Almost every single room had been converted for the wholesale production of cannabis plants, and there was a large amount of evidence of previous crops. This was an enormous set up." What does that equate to? A f*ckload of pot plants. Although, due to this just happening last night, they don't know exactly how many plants were in those rooms, but it's said to be the biggest in that county . Officials estimate it's worth "over £1 million," which equals around $1.2 million. Franklin also described this setup as the “largest and most sophisticated cannabis factory" he'd ever seen. The bunker was constructed some time in the 1980s to protect local government officials if there was ever a nuclear attack, and its said that the nuclear blast doors are still in tact. It was also described as being "almost completely impenetrable," but it looks like the cops got in... as did these genius-ass weed dealers. There were six individuals arrested both outside and inside of the pot factory, ranging in age from 15 to 45. They face various charges, from suspicion of cannabis production to human trafficking.

You've probably heard of people going to enormous lengths to hide their drug manufacturing operations; hell, Breaking Bad showcased how easy it was to produce and sell meth via a successful fried chicken franchise. Never have we seen an operation quite like this spot that got raided in southwest London overnight.

According to a Facebook post from the Wiltshire Police, officials hit the jackpot when they raided an underground shelter with the Chilmark Regional Government Headquarters. Detective Inspector Paul Franklin said, "There are approximately 20 rooms in the building, split over two floors, each 200 ft. long and 70 ft. wide. Almost every single room had been converted for the wholesale production of cannabis plants, and there was a large amount of evidence of previous crops. This was an enormous set up."

What does that equate to? A f*ckload of pot plants. Although, due to this just happening last night, they don't know exactly how many plants were in those rooms, but it's said to be the biggest in that county. Officials estimate it's worth "over £1 million," which equals around $1.2 million. Franklin also described this setup as the “largest and most sophisticated cannabis factory" he'd ever seen.

The bunker was constructed some time in the 1980s to protect local government officials if there was ever a nuclear attack, and its said that the nuclear blast doors are still in tact. It was also described as being "almost completely impenetrable," but it looks like the cops got in... as did these genius-ass weed dealers.

There were six individuals arrested both outside and inside of the pot factory, ranging in age from 15 to 45. They face various charges, from suspicion of cannabis production to human trafficking.