Joko Widodo expected to talk trade, trust, tourism and foreign tensions on Australia trip



Joko Widodo expected to talk trade, trust, tourism and foreign tensions on Australia trip

Updated

Indonesian President Joko Widodo makes his first bilateral visit to Australia this weekend — a sign a military spat early this year has been resolved and relations between the two nations are stable.

Key points: There will be a more casual rather than formal affair between the two leaders, Indonesian Foreign Ministry says

Negotiations over free trade deal will dominate talks

Two leaders will also discuss the risk of foreign fighters returning from Iraq, Syria

Mr Widodo arrived in Sydney this morning and trade and security talks will dominate his two-day visit.

Mr Widodo, who is commonly referred to as "Jokowi", was due to address a joint sitting of the federal Parliament in Canberra last year, but postponed the visit after a violent protest in Jakarta led by conservative Islamic groups.

"This visit is very important for us, this is a visit to a close neighbour," Indonesian Foreign Ministry spokesman Arrmanatha Nasir said ahead of Mr Widodo's arrival in Sydney.

Mr Widodo's like and respect for Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is believed to have assisted the recovery of the bilateral relationship after successive lows linked to boat turn-backs, the cattle trade and the spying scandal.

The Foreign Ministry spokesman made a point of revealing there would be no formal dinner normally held with a state visit, rather there would be a more casual affair between the two leaders.

"Prime Minister Turnbull invited President Jokowi for a private dinner — so only the President and his wife and the Prime Minister and his wife," Mr Nasir said.

Negotiations over a free trade deal between the two nations will dominate talks.

Indonesia — a sprawling archipelago of 250 million people and Australia's largest neighbour — currently has lacklustre economic ties, with two-way trade worth around $15 billion.

Indonesia is not among Australia's top 10 trading partners, despite its trajectory of growth meaning it could be in the top six economies in the world by 2030.

Trade with New Zealand outstrips deals done with Jakarta.

Greg Barton, a professor of Global Islamic Politics at the Alfred Deakin Institute, said Australia needed to seize the opportunity to be part of that growth.

"There is everything in our advantage in Australia to really engage substantially, and the fact that Indonesians regard that as important, [it] should be taken as an opportunity for us to grab," Professor Barton said.

"If we let this ship sail, we may not get this opportunity again in the future."

It is hoped the free trade deal could be finalised as early as this year.

Building trust 'very important': Widodo

Mr Widodo is particularly keen to increase tourism numbers across the archipelago, beyond the hundreds of thousands of Australians who flock to Bali each year.

"If these potentials can be improved, I believe not only trade, but also investment will be increased, and third, we cannot ignore tourism" Mr Widodo told the ABC during an interview ahead of his planned visit last year.

In the interview with the ABC, he spoke of rebuilding trust between the two nations.

"The most important thing is how we can build trust between Indonesia and Australia," he said.

"If there's an issue, small or medium, I can directly call Prime Minister Turnbull and Prime Minister Turnbull calls me. Why not? We're neighbours. But, to build trust is very important."

Mr Widodo has been seen to have an eye more prominently focused on countries to Indonesia's north rather than south, but his commitment to visit Australia is seen as a positive sign for the relationship.

"Indonesia can increasingly say Australia is a nice place, but not that important," Professor Barton said.

"Indonesia is already looking more important to us than Australia looks to Indonesia, and we need to try and lock in a bilateral partnership with substance in economic investment and exchange."

Tensions over the South China Sea will also be discussed, along with the possibility of joint Navy patrols in the area.

China's so-called nine-dash line reaches to the waters near Indonesia's Natuna Islands.

"I need to say this, in regards to Indonesian sovereignty, I don't compromise. I don't compromise," Mr Widodo told the ABC's Jakarta bureau last year.

Risk of foreign fighters under discussion

A confusing rift over military cooperation seems to have not affected the relationship's standing ahead of Mr Widodo's visit.

In February, Indonesia's military chief General Gatot Nurmantyo accepted an apology from Chief of Australia's Army Angus Campbell over material found at a Perth army base that was perceived in part to have insulted Indonesia's state ideology, Pancasila.

"It was resolved quickly, it now looks in hindsight like a bit of a storm in a tea cup," Professor Barton said.

"I think the way it was resolved fairly quickly speaks to the resilience in the relationship, there was clearly strong desire to make it work."

The relationship between the two countries has dramatically improved since a low after the executions of the Bali Nine members — Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran — last year, with Mr Widodo indicating Indonesia wants to move toward abolishing the death penalty.

But there is always a delicate bilateral balance in the relationship with the world's largest Muslim nation.

The talks will also concentrate on the risk of foreign fighters returning from Iraq and Syria. Mr Widodo will highlight the success of Indonesia's so-called soft approach to de-radicalising extremists.

Indonesia still does not have laws against supporting the Islamic State group — more than a year after a terrorist attack in the centre of the capital Jakarta.

Mr Widodo has been battling the rise of a hardline approach to Islam in Indonesia, with mass street protests against the Christian Governor, known as "Ahok", and a blasphemy trial against him seen as a test for moderate Islam in Indonesia.

The leaders will undoubtedly discuss the presidency of Donald Trump in the United States, but the Indonesian President's office made it clear he would not be publicly drawn on the American leader's policies.

Mr Widodo will also meet the Governor-General, federal ministers and members of the Indonesian community in what is a shortened version of his original trip.

Topics: government-and-politics, federal-government, terrorism, world-politics, australia, indonesia

First posted