Apple Will Open Its New 'Spaceship' Campus In April
Apple Will Open Its New 'Spaceship' Campus In April
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Brian Solomon       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Apple CEO Tim Cook stands in front of a slide of the company's new campus (JOSH EDELSON/AFP/Getty Images) Apple's new campus has a name and a move-in date. On Wednesday, Apple announced that its 175-acre ring-shaped futuristic campus will be called "Apple Park" and employees will being occupying it in April, although construction will continue through the summer. By the end of this year, Apple expects to move more than 12,000 employees into the new Cupertino campus. To honor Steve Jobs' memory, the 1,000-seat auditorium on campus will be named after Apple's iconic founder. Apple announced the news days before what would have been Jobs' 62nd birthday. “Steve’s vision for Apple stretched far beyond his time with us. He intended Apple Park to be the home of innovation for generations to come,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a statement. “The workspaces and parklands are designed to inspire our team as well as benefit the environment. We’ve achieved one of the most energy-efficient buildings in the world and the campus will run entirely on renewable energy.” In addition to the Steve Jobs Theater, the Apple Park will include spaces open to the public: a visitors center, Apple Store, and cafe. But most of the campus will be accessible only to Apple employees, including two miles of walking and running paths, an orchard, meadow, and pond within the main ring. The buildings are powered with 100% renewable energy, with 17 megawatts of rooftop solar panels. Apple will open its campus as its stock hits a new all-time high . Investor confidence in the computing giant has rebounded in the last six months.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Apple's new campus has a name and a move-in date.

On Wednesday, Apple announced that its 175-acre ring-shaped futuristic campus will be called "Apple Park" and employees will being occupying it in April, although construction will continue through the summer. By the end of this year, Apple expects to move more than 12,000 employees into the new Cupertino campus.

To honor Steve Jobs' memory, the 1,000-seat auditorium on campus will be named after Apple's iconic founder. Apple announced the news days before what would have been Jobs' 62nd birthday.

“Steve’s vision for Apple stretched far beyond his time with us. He intended Apple Park to be the home of innovation for generations to come,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a statement. “The workspaces and parklands are designed to inspire our team as well as benefit the environment. We’ve achieved one of the most energy-efficient buildings in the world and the campus will run entirely on renewable energy.”

In addition to the Steve Jobs Theater, the Apple Park will include spaces open to the public: a visitors center, Apple Store, and cafe. But most of the campus will be accessible only to Apple employees, including two miles of walking and running paths, an orchard, meadow, and pond within the main ring. The buildings are powered with 100% renewable energy, with 17 megawatts of rooftop solar panels.

Apple will open its campus as its stock hits a new all-time high. Investor confidence in the computing giant has rebounded in the last six months.

Brian Solomon covers technology and the on-demand economy for Forbes. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn.