These badass women exercising to Maya Angelou's poetry is all the inspiration you need today
These badass women exercising to Maya Angelou's poetry is all the inspiration you need today
If you've been searching in vain for motivation to exercise, stop right now. This video has everything you need: a scorching soundtrack, the legendary poet Maya Angelou and a motley crew of fierce women slaying it in their respective sports. The one-and-a-half minute clip is the latest installment of the UK " This Girl Can " campaign. The initiative aims to "inspire women to wiggle, jiggle, move and prove that judgement is a barrier that can be overcome." As the women of different shapes, sizes and backgrounds get physical with flair, you can hear a recording of Angelou reciting " Phenomenal Woman ," a poem she wrote in 1978: "It’s the fire in my eyes, / And the flash of my teeth, / The swing in my waist, / And the joy in my feet. / I’m a woman / Phenomenally. " We can't promise you that you won't cry, but we can all-but-guarantee this clip will get you ready to take on the world. Taco Bell ditched the Naked Chicken Chalupa, so here's how to make your own Grandmother screams bloody murder during her first VR roller coaster ride Sir Ian McKellen does stunning Maggie Smith impression while telling hilarious Maggie Smith story Someone put the Nintendo Switch's battery to the test

If you've been searching in vain for motivation to exercise, stop right now. This video has everything you need: a scorching soundtrack, the legendary poet Maya Angelou and a motley crew of fierce women slaying it in their respective sports.

The one-and-a-half minute clip is the latest installment of the UK "This Girl Can" campaign. The initiative aims to "inspire women to wiggle, jiggle, move and prove that judgement is a barrier that can be overcome."

As the women of different shapes, sizes and backgrounds get physical with flair, you can hear a recording of Angelou reciting "Phenomenal Woman," a poem she wrote in 1978: "It’s the fire in my eyes, / And the flash of my teeth, / The swing in my waist, / And the joy in my feet. / I’m a woman / Phenomenally. "

We can't promise you that you won't cry, but we can all-but-guarantee this clip will get you ready to take on the world.