Rihanna named Harvard University's humanitarian of the year
Rihanna named Harvard University's humanitarian of the year


The presenters read "La La Land" right after Emma Stone won best actress for her role in the modern-day musical.

Listen to Academy Award winners thank their cast, crew, friends and family during their acceptance speeches during the 89th annual Academy Awards.

He joked and also made fun of Matt Damon; watch Jimmy Kimmel's best gags during the 89th annual Academy Awards.

Miss the big moments at the 89th annual Academy Awards? Here's a good highlight reel of the star-studded night.

Here are some of this year's Oscar winners.

They stood there with their mouths agape, confused at how 'La La Land' could have been named 'Best Picture' when 'Moonlight' actually won - watch the stars react to the mistake during the 89th annual Academy Awards.

Even seasoned, backstage broadcasters were amazed at how the 89th annual Academy Awards ended.

Lara Spencer reports the buzziest stories of the day in "GMA" Pop News.

View gallery Rihanna named Harvard University's humanitarian of the year (ABC News)

Rihanna is Harvard-bound -- not to study, but to pick up the university's prestigious Peter J. Gomes Humanitarian Award.

The Barbados-born singer will receive her award next Tuesday at the university.

"Rihanna has charitably built a state-of-the-art center for oncology and nuclear medicine to diagnose and treat breast cancer at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Bridgetown, Barbados," S. Allen Counter, the Harvard Foundation’s director, told the Harvard Gazette.

"She has also created the Clara and Lionel Foundation Scholarship Program [named for her grandmother and grandfather] for students attending college in the U.S. from Caribbean countries," he continued, "and supports the Global Partnership for Education and Global Citizen Project, a multi-year campaign that will provide children with access to education in over 60 developing countries, giving priority to girls and those affected by lack of access to education in the world today."

The Harvard Foundation recognizes prominent public-spirited leaders each year in honor of the late professor Peter J. Gomes.

Past honorees include actor James Earl Jones and the late tennis star and activist, Arthur Ashe.