Pissed Jeans Have No Idea How a Gym Works in 'The Bar is Low' Video: Watch
Pissed Jeans Have No Idea How a Gym Works in 'The Bar is Low' Video: Watch
Here Are the Best & Worst Moments From the 2017 Oscars Oscars 2017: See the Full Winners List 2017 Oscars Red Carpet & More: See All The Photos! Oscars 2017 Best Picture Flub: Katy Perry, Questlove and More React Pissed Jeans Have No Idea How a Gym Works in 'The Bar is Low' Video: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Punks don't lift, bro. If there's one things skinny, truck stop burrito-eatingÂ indie rockers are known for, it's throwing down tons of iron and crushing crunches by the dozen. Philadelphia punks Pissed Jeans prove that point in the hilarious new video for their new single "The Bar is Low," in which they prove that they have no idea what to do with weights. The songÂ from the band's fifth studio album, , out today (Feb. 24) on Sub PopÂ is another blast of full-fury guitar rock, with lead singer Matt KorvetteÂ pumping away at a bench press machine with his feet as he rolls his eyes andÂ growl/sings:Â "I'veÂ been described as good/ Some have even said great/ What have I done/ To deserve such a fate?" The clip was directed by frequent collaborator Joe Stakun ("Bathroom Laughter," "Romanticize Me") and is essentially a clinic on all the things to do at the gym.Â  There's a silverÂ lining inÂ all the wasted energy, though. TheÂ thing about not knowing what you're doing in Donald Trump's America is this: If you do it wrong convincingly enough, loudly and without regard to what the experts try toÂ tell you,Â other people might fall in line. Or, in this case,Â die. Either way. Check out the video for "The Bar is Low" below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Punks don't lift, bro.

If there's one things skinny, truck stop burrito-eatingÂ indie rockers are known for, it's throwing down tons of iron and crushing crunches by the dozen. Philadelphia punks Pissed Jeans prove that point in the hilarious new video for their new single "The Bar is Low," in which they prove that they have no idea what to do with weights.

The songÂ from the band's fifth studio album, Why Now Love, out today (Feb. 24) on Sub PopÂ is another blast of full-fury guitar rock, with lead singer Matt KorvetteÂ pumping away at a bench press machine with his feet as he rolls his eyes andÂ growl/sings:Â "I'veÂ been described as good/ Some have even said great/ What have I done/ To deserve such a fate?" The clip was directed by frequent collaborator Joe Stakun ("Bathroom Laughter," "Romanticize Me") and is essentially a clinic on all the things not to do at the gym.Â

There's a silverÂ lining inÂ all the wasted energy, though. TheÂ thing about not knowing what you're doing in Donald Trump's America is this: If you do it wrong convincingly enough, loudly and without regard to what the experts try toÂ tell you,Â other people might fall in line. Or, in this case,Â die. Either way.

Check out the video for "The Bar is Low" below.