The most cringe-worthy quotes from CEO Travis Kalanick on Uber's sexist work culture
The most cringe-worthy quotes from CEO Travis Kalanick on Uber's sexist work culture
Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has a history of cringe-worthy comments. Easiest example — "Boob-er" in reference to a "women on demand" service — and here's some more . SEE ALSO: Why sexual harassment scandals like Uber's are bound to persist in tech When he's not putting his foot in his mouth, Kalanick is known for particularly aggressive business tactics, which is one of the reasons why venture capitalists have given him more than $13 billion in funding to build out this ride-hailing company. Chris Sacca, an investor in Uber and other tech companies, wrote in a guest post in : "He doesn’t sleep. He doesn’t lose focus. He will even forget to eat. He executes again and again, inspiring those around him to have the same passion for the end game as he does." Since Susan Fowler Rigetti published her blog post on sexism in the workplace at Uber, Kalanick has spoken out and said he's committed to change. But also in that time, he's made a few more cringe-worthy comments on the matter, most recently in a meeting with more than 100 female engineers, as evident in audio obtained by which is confirmed as authentic. Here's some of our least favorite responses since the blog post: First response 1/ What's described here is abhorrent & against everything we believe in. Anyone who behaves this way or thinks this is OK will be fired. https://t.co/6q29N7AL6E — travis kalanick (@travisk) February 20, 2017 2/ I've instructed our CHRO Liane to conduct an urgent investigation. There can be absolutely no place for this kind of behavior at Uber. — travis kalanick (@travisk) February 20, 2017 About three hours after Susan Fowler published her blog post, Kalanick shared his response, in two parts, on Twitter. It's quite curious about this "behavior" having "no place" at Uber. And that anyone who "behaves this way ... will be fired." Let us remind you, Kalanick, that Emil Michael, the man who threatened a high-profile female tech journalist, still works at your company. In fact, he's your senior vice president of business development. This tweet . @ariannahuff has my full support https://t.co/zRDclHnLyO — travis kalanick (@travisk) February 20, 2017 Despite having become one of the most recognizable women in the tech community, Arianna Huffington's media organization, , has been criticized for having a toxic work culture, as well. Huffington's people responded to an report on Arianna Huffington being the wrong choice to lead an independent investigation: All of these links are based on anonymous sources and we won't engage in shadow boxing. It is clear that these pieces all stemmed from former employees with an ax to grind — as you can see the piece in Gawker that you're referencing was not only based on anonymous sources but did not even have a byline. On "justice" Kalanick sent a memo to employees, obtained by the . What is driving me through all this is a determination that we take what’s happened as an opportunity to heal wounds of the past and set a new standard for justice in the workplace. It seems that Kalanick is starting a Justice League. "Get at" people “There are people in this room who have experienced things that are incredibly unjust. I want to root out the injustice. I want to get at the people who are making this place a bad place. And you have my commitment." We do not know what "get at" implies and have asked Uber for clarification. "Very aggressive" "I understand that this is bigger than the Susan situation and I want you to know that I’m all about rooting this out and being very aggressive about that, while also being supportive and empathetic and trying to build that support and empathy throughout the organization." This is just a strange contradiction. "A little bit emotional for me" "It’s a little bit emotional for me and I’m sorry. I’m sure its emotional for some of you too.” "For some of you." Excuse me, Kalanick. How many women work at Uber? The family card "I don’t understand in a way that I’ve experienced it myself but I’ve had family members who have seen the kinds of things that you guys have seen. Here or elsewhere. So I empathize with you but I can never fully understand and I get that." "Here"? Does Kalanick have family members who work at Uber? "Fair enough" Fair Enough. Fair Enough. Fair Enough. I understand…Now previously the previous question, I think maybe cut that one short by just saying fair enough. Fair. Not "Fair Enough." Silence on Facebook Notably, Kalanick has not yet said anything on his Facebook page about the sexual harassment allegations. His last two Facebook posts were about the Muslim ban and supporting drivers who are affected by the ban. BONUS: Apple's new 'Apple Park' spaceship campus will open in April

Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has a history of cringe-worthy comments. Easiest example — "Boob-er" in reference to a "women on demand" service — and here's some more.

When he's not putting his foot in his mouth, Kalanick is known for particularly aggressive business tactics, which is one of the reasons why venture capitalists have given him more than $13 billion in funding to build out this ride-hailing company. Chris Sacca, an investor in Uber and other tech companies, wrote in a guest post in Fortune: "He doesn’t sleep. He doesn’t lose focus. He will even forget to eat. He executes again and again, inspiring those around him to have the same passion for the end game as he does."

Since Susan Fowler Rigetti published her blog post on sexism in the workplace at Uber, Kalanick has spoken out and said he's committed to change. But also in that time, he's made a few more cringe-worthy comments on the matter, most recently in a meeting with more than 100 female engineers, as evident in audio obtained by BuzzFeed which is confirmed as authentic.

Here's some of our least favorite responses since the blog post:

First response

1/ What's described here is abhorrent & against everything we believe in. Anyone who behaves this way or thinks this is OK will be fired. https://t.co/6q29N7AL6E — travis kalanick (@travisk) February 20, 2017

2/ I've instructed our CHRO Liane to conduct an urgent investigation. There can be absolutely no place for this kind of behavior at Uber. — travis kalanick (@travisk) February 20, 2017

About three hours after Susan Fowler published her blog post, Kalanick shared his response, in two parts, on Twitter.

It's quite curious about this "behavior" having "no place" at Uber. And that anyone who "behaves this way ... will be fired." Let us remind you, Kalanick, that Emil Michael, the man who threatened a high-profile female tech journalist, still works at your company. In fact, he's your senior vice president of business development.

This tweet

Despite having become one of the most recognizable women in the tech community, Arianna Huffington's media organization, the Huffington Post, has been criticized for having a toxic work culture, as well. Huffington's people responded to an Inc. report on Arianna Huffington being the wrong choice to lead an independent investigation:

All of these links are based on anonymous sources and we won't engage in shadow boxing. It is clear that these pieces all stemmed from former employees with an ax to grind — as you can see the piece in Gawker that you're referencing was not only based on anonymous sources but did not even have a byline.





On "justice"

Kalanick sent a memo to employees, obtained by the New York Times.

What is driving me through all this is a determination that we take what’s happened as an opportunity to heal wounds of the past and set a new standard for justice in the workplace.

It seems that Kalanick is starting a Justice League.

"Get at" people

“There are people in this room who have experienced things that are incredibly unjust. I want to root out the injustice. I want to get at the people who are making this place a bad place. And you have my commitment."

We do not know what "get at" implies and have asked Uber for clarification.

"Very aggressive"

"I understand that this is bigger than the Susan situation and I want you to know that I’m all about rooting this out and being very aggressive about that, while also being supportive and empathetic and trying to build that support and empathy throughout the organization."

This is just a strange contradiction.

"A little bit emotional for me"

"It’s a little bit emotional for me and I’m sorry. I’m sure its emotional for some of you too.”

"For some of you." Excuse me, Kalanick. How many women work at Uber?

The family card

"I don’t understand in a way that I’ve experienced it myself but I’ve had family members who have seen the kinds of things that you guys have seen. Here or elsewhere. So I empathize with you but I can never fully understand and I get that."

"Here"? Does Kalanick have family members who work at Uber?

"Fair enough"

Fair Enough. Fair Enough. Fair Enough. I understand…Now previously the previous question, I think maybe cut that one short by just saying fair enough.

Fair.

Not "Fair Enough."

Silence on Facebook

Notably, Kalanick has not yet said anything on his Facebook page about the sexual harassment allegations.

His last two Facebook posts were about the Muslim ban and supporting drivers who are affected by the ban.