This Is What The Academy Awards Looked Like In 1997
This Is What The Oscars Looked Like 20 Years Ago
With the 89th annual Academy Awards just a few days away, let us once again pay homage to the show’s past. Today, we’re strolling down memory lane all the way back to the 1997 ceremony, when Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman (wearing that oh-so-memorable chartreuse Galliano gown) walked the carpet hand-in-hand and Felicity Huffman sported some trendy round sunglasses. In terms of awards, Geoffrey Rush and Frances McDormand took home the night’s top acting honors for their roles in “Shine” and “Fargo,” respectively. The ceremony’s biggest award ― Best Picture ― went to “The English Patient,” and its director, Anthony Minghella, took home the statue for directing. Below are some highlights from the ‘97 ceremony. The nostalgia is real.                                                                                                                 ALSO ON HUFFPOST The Oscars: Photos Of Hollywood's Biggest Night Through The Years       Share this slide:       MORE:

With the 89th annual Academy Awards just a few days away, let us once again pay homage to the show’s past.

Today, we’re strolling down memory lane all the way back to the 1997 ceremony, when Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman (wearing that oh-so-memorable chartreuse Galliano gown) walked the carpet hand-in-hand and Felicity Huffman sported some trendy round sunglasses.

In terms of awards, Geoffrey Rush and Frances McDormand took home the night’s top acting honors for their roles in “Shine” and “Fargo,” respectively. The ceremony’s biggest award ― Best Picture ― went to “The English Patient,” and its director, Anthony Minghella, took home the statue for directing.

Below are some highlights from the ‘97 ceremony. The nostalgia is real.

Joan Allen Ron Galella, Ltd. via Getty Images

Kevin Spacey and Dianne Dreyer Ron Galella via Getty Images

Sigourney Weaver and Jim Simpson Ron Galella, Ltd. via Getty Images

Tommy Lee Jones Ron Galella via Getty Images

Felicity Huffman and William H. Macy Jim Smeal via Getty Images

Ralph Fiennes and Francesca Annis Barry King via Getty Images

Jenny McCarthy KMazur via Getty Images

Jennifer Lopez and Ojani Noa Barry King via Getty Images

Muhammad Ali Jeffrey Mayer via Getty Images

Kristin Scott Thomas KMazur via Getty Images

Tim Robbins and Susan Sarandon KMazur via Getty Images

Mira Sorvino and Quentin Tarantino Jeffrey Mayer via Getty Images

Jim Carrey and Lauren Holly Jeffrey Mayer via Getty Images

Edward Norton with his guests KMazur via Getty Images

James Brolin and Barbra Streisand Barry King via Getty Images

Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith Barry King via Getty Images

Winona Ryder Kevin.Mazur via Getty Images

Claire Danes Kevin.Mazur/INACTIVE via Getty Images

Billy Bob Thornton Frank Trapper via Getty Images

Cuba Gooding Jr. Frank Trapper via Getty Images

Celine Dion with Rene Angelil Frank Trapper via Getty Images

Helen Hunt and Hank Azaria Frank Trapper via Getty Images

Courtney Love Frank Trapper via Getty Images

Frances McDormand with Joel and Ethan Coen KIM KULISH via Getty Images

Anthony Minghella and Saul Zaentz KIM KULISH via Getty Images

Sandra Bullock Ron Galella, Ltd. via Getty Images

Nicole Kidman and Tom Cruise Ron Galella, Ltd. via Getty Images

Geoffrey Rush Ron Galella, Ltd. via Getty Images