Trump signs executive order to help remove 'job-killing regulations'
Trump signs executive order to help remove 'job-killing regulations'
Shares               President Trump signed an executive order for regulatory reform on Friday, directing government agencies to set up task forces to look into ways to eliminate or scale back regulations. Trump said that the order is “one of many ways” the administration will remove “job-killing regulations.” "This directs each agency to establish a regulatory reform task force which will ensure that every agency has a ... real team of dedicated people to research all regulations that are unnecessary, burdensome and harmful to the economy and therefore harmful to the creation of jobs and business. Each task force will make recommendations to repeal or simplify existing regulations,” the president said. Trump explained that any existing or proposed regulation will have to meet certain conditions. "Every regulation should have to pass a simple test: Does it make life better or safer for American workers or consumers? If the answer is no, we will be getting rid of it and getting rid of it quickly. We'll stop punishing companies for doing business in the United States; it will be absolutely just the opposite,” he said. “They'll be incentivized to doing business in the United States. We're working hard to roll back the regulatory burden so that coal miners, factory workers, small business owners and so many others can grow their businesses and thrive.” The new order is not the first by Trump aiming to reduce federal regulations. In January, the president signed an executive order that he said will “dramatically reduce federal regulations” on businesses. That order mandates that for every new regulation implemented by federal agencies, two existing regulations must be cut. Trump called that order the "largest ever cut, by far, in terms of regulations." Last week, the president also rolled back the stream protection rule, a regulation designed to protect waterways from surface mining. Shares                  Trump signs executive order to help remove 'job-killing regulations'   President Trump, first lady host first ball in the White House   GOP congressman says no room for compromise in repealing Obamacare   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Democrats' new chair on electoral mistakes: 'We ignored rural swaths of America'   Pelosi: Trump 'has nothing to show' for 1st month in office except 'fear'   White House spokesperson on call for special prosecutor in Russia probe: We're not 'there yet'   'This Week' Transcript 2-26-17: Leader Nancy Pelosi, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Rep. Jim Jordan, and Tom Perez   Former Labor Secretary Tom Perez elected DNC chair   10 celebs react to Trump's decision to skip star-studded dinner   Trump says he won't attend White House Correspondents Dinner   White House worked with House and Senate intelligence chairs to rebut Russia ties   What you need to know about new DNC chair Tom Perez   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera

President Trump signed an executive order for regulatory reform on Friday, directing government agencies to set up task forces to look into ways to eliminate or scale back regulations.

Trump said that the order is “one of many ways” the administration will remove “job-killing regulations.”

"This directs each agency to establish a regulatory reform task force which will ensure that every agency has a ... real team of dedicated people to research all regulations that are unnecessary, burdensome and harmful to the economy and therefore harmful to the creation of jobs and business. Each task force will make recommendations to repeal or simplify existing regulations,” the president said.

Trump explained that any existing or proposed regulation will have to meet certain conditions.

"Every regulation should have to pass a simple test: Does it make life better or safer for American workers or consumers? If the answer is no, we will be getting rid of it and getting rid of it quickly. We'll stop punishing companies for doing business in the United States; it will be absolutely just the opposite,” he said. “They'll be incentivized to doing business in the United States. We're working hard to roll back the regulatory burden so that coal miners, factory workers, small business owners and so many others can grow their businesses and thrive.”

The new order is not the first by Trump aiming to reduce federal regulations.

In January, the president signed an executive order that he said will “dramatically reduce federal regulations” on businesses. That order mandates that for every new regulation implemented by federal agencies, two existing regulations must be cut.

Trump called that order the "largest ever cut, by far, in terms of regulations."

Last week, the president also rolled back the stream protection rule, a regulation designed to protect waterways from surface mining.