Donald Trump: White House bars several major news outlets from informal press briefing



Donald Trump: White House bars several major news outlets from informal press briefing

Updated

News organisations including The New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, CNN and Politico were blocked from joining an informal, on-the-record White House press briefing.

Key points: Press Secretary Sean Spicer restricts journalists from major outlets from an on-the-record briefing

The briefings are normally open to all credentialed news organisations

Video from December has surfaced on social media in which Mr Spicer says 'barring media access is what a dictatorship does'

The Associated Press chose not to participate in the gaggle after White House press secretary Sean Spicer restricted the number of journalists present for the briefing.

Typically, the daily briefing is televised and open to all news organisations credentialed to cover the White House.

On Friday, hours after President Donald Trump delivered a speech blasting the media, Mr Spicer invited only a pool of news organisations that represents and shares reporting with the larger press corps.

He also invited several other major news outlets, as well as smaller organisations, including the conservative website Breitbart News, whose former executive chairman, Steve Bannon, is Mr Trump's chief strategist.

When additional news organisations that included The New York Times, the Los Angeles Times, CNN and Politico attempted to gain access, they were not allowed to enter.

'Everyone was represented': White House

The White House said it felt "everyone was represented" by those in the pool and the invited organisations.

"We decided to add a couple of additional people beyond the pool. Nothing more than that," White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said.

When asked by a reporter attending the gaggle whether he was playing favourites, Mr Spicer said the White House had "shown an abundance of accessibility," according to an audio recording of the gaggle later circulated by the pool.

The pool was comprised of Reuters, Bloomberg, CBS, Hearst Newspapers and CBS Radio.

Others in the gaggle were Fox, NBC and ABC. Bloomberg reported that its reporter was unaware of the exclusions until after the gaggle.

In a statement, White House Correspondents' Association president Jeff Mason said the group was "protesting strongly" against how the gaggle was handled by the White House.

When Mr Spicer was asked by a reporter at the gaggle whether he was playing favourites, he said he "disagreed with the premise of the question," according to the audio.

"We've brought more reporters into this process. And the idea that every time that every single person can't get their question answered or fit in a room that we're excluding people," he said.

"We've actually gone above and beyond with making ourselves, our team, and our briefing room more accessible than probably any prior administration. And so I think you can take that to the bank.

"We do what we can to accommodate the press. I think we've gone above and beyond when it comes to accessibility, and openness and getting folks — our officials, our team."

'Nothing like this has ever happened before'

Reaction from the barred outlets and others was swift.

Former George W Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer defended Mr Spicer's actions on Twitter while a Politico video of Mr Spicer in December saying "barring media access is what a 'dictatorship' does," became widely circulated on social media.

David Frum, senior editor at The Atlantic wrote, "If you're a news outlet allowed into a Trump White House gaggle, you need to ask yourself: what am I doing wrong?"

Davan Maharaj, editor in chief and publisher of the Los Angeles Times, called the newspaper's exclusion "unfortunate".

"The public has a right to know, and that means being informed by a variety of news sources, not just those filtered by the White House press office in hopes of getting friendly coverage," Maharaj said in a statement.

"Regardless of access, the Times will continue to report on the Trump administration without fear or favour."

Dean Baquet, executive editor of The New York Times, said, "nothing like this has ever happened at the White House in our long history of covering multiple administrations of different parties. We strongly protest the exclusion of The New York Times and the other news organisations. Free media access to a transparent government is obviously of crucial national interest".

CNN's Jake Tapper took aim at the White House as he kicked off "The Lead with Jake Tapper" hours after the gaggle.

"A White House that has had some difficulty telling the truth and that has seemed to have trouble getting up to speed on the basic competent functioning of Government, and a President who seems particularly averse to any criticism and has called the press the enemies of the American people — they're taking the next step in attempting to avoid checks and balances and accountability," Tapper said.

"It's not acceptable. In fact, it's petulant, and indicative of a lack of basic understanding of how an adult White House functions."

The Committee to Protect Journalists also condemned the move by the White House.

"We are concerned by the decision to bar reporters from a press secretary briefing," CPJ executive director Joel Simon said in a statement.

"The US should be promoting press freedom and access to information."

AP/ABC

Topics: donald-trump, media, information-and-communication, government-and-politics, united-states

First posted