Taylor Bennett Joins Forces With His Older Brother Chance The Rapper On "Grown Up Fairy Tales"
Taylor Bennett Joins Forces With His Older Brother Chance The Rapper On "Grown Up Fairy Tales"
Taylor Bennett ’s new project is here, and it's stacked with guest artists. On Friday, the 21-year-old artist released , his first full-length album since 2015’s . The nine-track project includes cameos by everyone from Lil Yachty and Supa Bwe (“Neon Lights”) to KYLE and Luke Tennyson (“Favorite Colors”) to Stro and Jordan Bratton ( “New York Nights” ). But the standout track is definitely the Mike Will Made-It-produced cut “Grown Up Fairy Tales,” featuring Jeremih and Taylor’s older brother, Chance the Rapper . During an exclusive interview with , Taylor dished about his collaborative track with Chance and Jeremih, revealing it was originally recorded for a 2013 Mike Will project. “Actually, Mike Will Made-It produced that beat. It’s a song that Chance was supposed to put on a Mike Will Made It album around the time of ,” he explained . “It’s one of my favorite songs. When I got sick in New York, I had a blood clot. I felt so sick. That was the only song I could really think of. I called him like, ‘Yo, you gotta let me have this song.’ He let me have it. That’s how it came together. We’ve worked through it all together since then, but that’s where it came from.” is available to stream on Taylor’s SoundCloud.

Taylor Bennett’s new project is here, and it's stacked with guest artists.

On Friday, the 21-year-old artist released Restoration of an American Idol, his first full-length album since 2015’s Broad Shoulders. The nine-track project includes cameos by everyone from Lil Yachty and Supa Bwe (“Neon Lights”) to KYLE and Luke Tennyson (“Favorite Colors”) to Stro and Jordan Bratton (“New York Nights”). But the standout track is definitely the Mike Will Made-It-produced cut “Grown Up Fairy Tales,” featuring Jeremih and Taylor’s older brother, Chance the Rapper.

During an exclusive interview with AllHipHop, Taylor dished about his collaborative track with Chance and Jeremih, revealing it was originally recorded for a 2013 Mike Will project.

“Actually, Mike Will Made-It produced that beat. It’s a song that Chance was supposed to put on a Mike Will Made It album around the time of Acid Rap,” he explained. “It’s one of my favorite songs. When I got sick in New York, I had a blood clot. I felt so sick. That was the only song I could really think of. I called him like, ‘Yo, you gotta let me have this song.’ He let me have it. That’s how it came together. We’ve worked through it all together since then, but that’s where it came from.”

Restoration of an American Idol is available to stream on Taylor’s SoundCloud.