Lionel Richie Postpones Tour With Mariah Carey After Knee Procedure
Lionel Richie Postpones Tour With Mariah Carey After Knee Procedure
Here Are the Best & Worst Moments From the 2017 Oscars Oscars 2017: See the Full Winners List 2017 Oscars Red Carpet & More: See All The Photos! Oscars 2017 Best Picture Flub: Katy Perry, Questlove and More React Lionel Richie Postpones Tour With Mariah Carey After Knee Procedure  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Lionel Richie says he won't recover from a knee procedure in time to launch his tour with Mariah Carey next month. The 67-year-old singer said in a statement Friday (Feb. 24) that their All The Hits Tour will be postponed until the summer. The 35-date trek was supposed to launch March 15 and wrap on May 27. Richie said "unfortunately my recovery from a knee procedure will not have me 100 percent ready to start the tour." He said he doesn't want to disappoint his fans and he's looking "forward to being back onstage so we can all be 'Dancing on the Ceiling' together again."  Purchased tickets will be honored at the new dates, to be announced soon. #ALLTHEHITS2017  pic.twitter.com/tjZJDq3skY  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Lionel Richie speaks during the Songwriters Hall Of Fame 47th Annual Induction And Awards at Marriott Marquis Hotel on June 9, 2016 in New York City.

Lionel Richie says he won't recover from a knee procedure in time to launch his tour with Mariah Carey next month.

The 67-year-old singer said in a statement Friday (Feb. 24) that their All The Hits Tour will be postponed until the summer. The 35-date trek was supposed to launch March 15 and wrap on May 27.

Richie said "unfortunately my recovery from a knee procedure will not have me 100 percent ready to start the tour." He said he doesn't want to disappoint his fans and he's looking "forward to being back onstage so we can all be 'Dancing on the Ceiling' together again."

Purchased tickets will be honored at the new dates, to be announced soon.