This Pregnant Mom Took Her Love Of Starbucks To The Next Level
This Pregnant Mom Took Her Love Of Starbucks To The Next Level
Everyone has heard the advice to ~just be yourself.~ But Kate Engelmaier, a 22-year-old blogger , took the saying to the next level, when she decided to paint her belly with the Starbucks logo for her maternity photo shoot. “I have always been told I was the definition of a ‘basic sorority girl’ and I never saw that as a bad thing,” Engelmaier told BuzzFeed. “I am a typical girly girl who loves glitter, monograms, and Starbucks — [and] that’s what makes me happy,” she said. Engelmaier said she got the idea for the shoot after receiving a copy of the book and paint kit from a college friend. “When I received [the book], I thumbed through it and absolutely fell in love with the other women’s painted bellies and everything this project stood for ,” Engelmaier said. “When thinking of what I wanted to paint on my belly, I decided I wanted something fun, lighthearted, and original that also described me.” Though she’s received her share of nasty comments regarding the idea, she has zero regrets about it. Though she says she does wish she would have “painted it better.” As a single mother living in the south, Engelmaier said she’s used to unsolicited comments about her pregnancy, anyway. “Living in the south, I’ve gotten quite a few bad comments about [the fact that I’m a single mother],” Engelmaier said. “A lot of older women look down on being single and pregnant and me doing it on my own. They tell me I should’ve considered my options.” But she said she also gets messages of hope from other young, single moms via her blog, A Brave Mess — and that makes everything worth it. “Those few people I am helping mean so much more than the people who don’t approve of what I’m doing,” she said. As for Baby Max, he’s due on February 28, and Engelmaier said she hopes he’ll live with the same carefree and bold attitude that she does. “And if he wants to be a little barista, then why not?” said Engelmaier. “His dad’s a chef, and I wouldn’t mind if he can make me a little coffee.”   If You Already Know How Brussels Sprouts Grow, I Don't...    How Do You Eat These Candies?  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.