Bare Is The Biggest Beauty Trend At Fashion Week 2017
Bare Is The Biggest Beauty Trend At Fashion Week 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karen Hua       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Bare is the new beautiful, as seen at this year’s fall/winter Fashion Weeks from New York to London and Milan. Between bare faces to bare chests, the most prominent trends included minimal makeup and sheer tops that showcased the natural body. Kendall Jenner closed the La Perla show in a sheer "skin and beads" dress. (Photo by Peter White/WireImage) Kendall Jenner ( outspoken about embracing her nude chest ) kicked off the trend at the NYFW La Perla show in a glittering gown resemblant of Marilyn Monroe's (then-scandalous) "Happy Birthday, Mr. President" dress. Numerous American designers followed suit, flaunting the #freethenipple movement down the runway—including Naeem Khan , Jenny Packham , and Adam Selman , among others. Other designers such as Katie Gallagher have long created a name for themselves for their uncensored aesthetic. Across the pond in London and Milan, Versus Versace , Alberta Ferretti , Emilio Pucci , and Max Mara were a few of several brands also espousing the trend. Raf Simons made a bold move with barely-there tops for his freshman season at Calvin Klein. (Left and right photos by Victor VIRGILE/Gamma-Rapho via Getty Images; center photo by Pietro D'aprano/Getty Images) For his debut as Calvin Klein creative director, Raf Simons boldly showcased clear plastic tops for both men and women—bearing chests in equal measure. Prabal Gurung not only featured a few barely-there looks, but his finale sent models braless down the runway in feminist slogan t-shirts . Prabal Gurung made more than one feminist statement on his runway--both freeing the nip and parading statement t-shirts. (left and right photos by Randy Brooke/WireImage, center photo by Victor VIRGILE/Gamma-Rapho via Getty Images) What the fashion industry has inherently done is desexualize female chests—displaying them not as objects of desire, but symbols of raw beauty. At least during Fashion Week, bearing all is no longer radical—it’s natural. "No makeup makeup" seen on a model in the Jason Wu show (left photo by Peter White/WireImage); a model in the Altuzarra show (center photo by Victor VIRGILE/Gamma-Rapho via Getty Images), and supermodel Ashley Graham in the Michael Kors show (right photo by Peter White/WireImage) Another way beauty has been redefined is with makeup—or lack thereof. During a Pirelli panel at NYFW, photographers Peter Lindbergh and Steve McCurry, author Fran Lebowitz, and actress Jessica Chastain discussed the evolving definition of beauty. Lindbergh, who has shot three Pirelli calendars including the 2017 calendar, explained how his idea of portraying female beauty is “not around perfect bodies, but on sensitivity and emotion, stripping down to the very soul of the sitters, who thus become more nude than naked.” “What I’m drawn to in beauty is, honestly, the bare,” Chastain said. Lindbergh added, “Beauty is the courage to showing your real self. There’s beauty in truth.”    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Bare is the new beautiful, as seen at this year’s fall/winter Fashion Weeks from New York to London and Milan. Between bare faces to bare chests, the most prominent trends included minimal makeup and sheer tops that showcased the natural body.

Kendall Jenner (outspoken about embracing her nude chest) kicked off the trend at the NYFW La Perla show in a glittering gown resemblant of Marilyn Monroe's (then-scandalous) "Happy Birthday, Mr. President" dress.

Numerous American designers followed suit, flaunting the #freethenipple movement down the runway—including Naeem Khan, Jenny Packham, and Adam Selman, among others. Other designers such as Katie Gallagher have long created a name for themselves for their uncensored aesthetic. Across the pond in London and Milan, Versus Versace, Alberta Ferretti, Emilio Pucci, and Max Mara were a few of several brands also espousing the trend.

For his debut as Calvin Klein creative director, Raf Simons boldly showcased clear plastic tops for both men and women—bearing chests in equal measure. Prabal Gurung not only featured a few barely-there looks, but his finale sent models braless down the runway in feminist slogan t-shirts.

What the fashion industry has inherently done is desexualize female chests—displaying them not as objects of desire, but symbols of raw beauty. At least during Fashion Week, bearing all is no longer radical—it’s natural.

Another way beauty has been redefined is with makeup—or lack thereof. During a Pirelli panel at NYFW, photographers Peter Lindbergh and Steve McCurry, author Fran Lebowitz, and actress Jessica Chastain discussed the evolving definition of beauty.

Lindbergh, who has shot three Pirelli calendars including the 2017 calendar, explained how his idea of portraying female beauty is “not around perfect bodies, but on sensitivity and emotion, stripping down to the very soul of the sitters, who thus become more nude than naked.”

“What I’m drawn to in beauty is, honestly, the bare,” Chastain said. Lindbergh added, “Beauty is the courage to showing your real self. There’s beauty in truth.”

Follow Karen on Twitter @k_hua.