23 Things You’ll Only Get If You’re 50% Hella Organised 50% Hot Mess
23 Things You'll Only Get If You're 50% Hella Organised 50% Hot Mess
When it comes to your job, you’re often seen as being super-organised and on top of everything. But in your life outside of work, you’re something of a hot mess. It’s almost like you live two, completely different lives. You’re not exactly the person in the world.  View on Instagram And although one of your favourite things to do is look up nifty ways to organise your home… … your attempts to be neat and tidy never last long. Depending on who you’re with, you can be the most organised person in the group. Basically if you find yourself with a bunch of people wearing their T-shirts on backwards, you suddenly develop the ability to be a leader. But when there’s somebody who’s clearly one of those organised people, you happily let them take the lead. When it comes to planning things like parties or nights out, you’re suddenly the most organised person on the planet. And nothing can quite get your arse in gear like planning for a holiday.  View on Instagram Flights? Check. Accommodation? Check. Travel vaccines? Check. Highly detailed travel itinerary including ferry times, food tours and check-out times? CHECK. Although packing for it is another story… You often make to-do lists and then abandon them completely. And even though you buy a diary/planner every year, you never use it properly. Remee Patel You hate it when people are late because you’re always on time. And you never lose stuff repeatedly. So you get annoyed when people label you a hot mess or consider you as someone who hasn’t got their shit together. Sometimes I do have my shit together! Remember when I organised your hen do Brenda you ungrateful little bitch! Although admittedly sometimes people think you’re organised than you actually are. Hahahaha just joking I didn’t actually do jack shit for your hen do Brenda. You’re a stickler for rules, especially when it comes to work or anything competitive. How else are you supposed to know if you’re good? IF YOU’RE THE WINNER? But in all other aspects you’re pretty chill. Like when the rules are too hard and you decide the rules are now bullshit. You have all of your bills on direct debit so you never miss a payment. But you don’t exactly keep track of your spending habits. You find the idea of being organised all of the time far too stressful. Your brain just doesn’t work that way all of the time. So you’d much rather be organised for when it’s most or the most After all, isn’t everything supposed to be done in moderation?   26 Little Things That Ruin Every Teacher's Day    23 Things You'll Only Get If You're 50% Hella Organised...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.