Someone lost a pair of Snuggie-clad goats, but it's OK because they were found
Someone lost a pair of Snuggie-clad goats, but it's OK because they were found
Finding out you've lost a pet is one of the most crushing and terrifying moments to experience. But losing two goats in Snuggies? We can't even imagine what that level of pain would feel like. That's exactly what happened in Nampa, Idaho. The Nampa Police Department discovered two lost goats in their town, who also appear to be wearing Snuggies. In an attempt to find their owner, they posted a picture of the goats to Facebook. SEE ALSO: Dog DGAF when poor owner shells out $1,000 after it swallows a bouncy ball "Have you lost your goats? Or your Snuggies?" the post reads . "The Snuggie-clad ruminants have been transported to the West Valley Humane Society." Fortunately, the goats' owner has been found. All is well with these goats, who were probably nice and cozy the entire time thanks to their Snuggies. Let's not forget to appreciate the amazingly written caption to go along with the photo. I mean, just look at those hashtags: "#WhatsARuminant #TotesMaGoats #WeveGotYourGoat" That's the work of a true social media artist. The officer pictured in the photo has received an outpouring of love from the community. According to multiple comments on the picture, Animal Control Officer Duff is always there to locate lost pets, even sometimes giving them a ride home and calling to follow up on how they are doing after recovery. Way to go, Idaho. BONUS: Goats were on the loose for 24 hours in a Kentucky city

Finding out you've lost a pet is one of the most crushing and terrifying moments to experience.

But losing two goats in Snuggies? We can't even imagine what that level of pain would feel like.

That's exactly what happened in Nampa, Idaho. The Nampa Police Department discovered two lost goats in their town, who also appear to be wearing Snuggies. In an attempt to find their owner, they posted a picture of the goats to Facebook.

"Have you lost your goats? Or your Snuggies?" the post reads. "The Snuggie-clad ruminants have been transported to the West Valley Humane Society."

Fortunately, the goats' owner has been found. All is well with these goats, who were probably nice and cozy the entire time thanks to their Snuggies.

Let's not forget to appreciate the amazingly written caption to go along with the photo. I mean, just look at those hashtags: "#WhatsARuminant #TotesMaGoats #WeveGotYourGoat"

That's the work of a true social media artist.

The officer pictured in the photo has received an outpouring of love from the community. According to multiple comments on the picture, Animal Control Officer Duff is always there to locate lost pets, even sometimes giving them a ride home and calling to follow up on how they are doing after recovery.

Way to go, Idaho.