Obamacare favorability nears record propelled by independents: poll
Obamacare favorability nears record propelled by independents: poll
Shares               A new poll gauging the public's feelings on the ongoing battle over healthcare finds continued displeasure with the current policy direction, but near record positive impressions of the Affordable Care Act . The tracking poll, conducted by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, finds 48 percent of its respondents had a very or somewhat favorable view of the legislation, commonly known as Obamacare, the highest level since September 2010, when 49 percent of those viewed it favorably. President Obama signed the measure into law earlier that year. The Affordable Care Act's popularity in the poll was boosted by independents. Some 50 percent of that group answered that they view the legislation as very or somewhat favorable. At the same time, 62 percent of those polled say that the country is headed down the wrong track when it comes to health care. On whether to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the poll is nearly split with 48 percent of respondents saying no and 47 percent saying yes. Of the 47 percent who believe the law should be repealed, a majority -- 59 percent -- think that lawmakers should wait to vote on it "until the details of [a] replacement plan have been announced." Just 38 percent of the repeal group wants an immediate vote. With regard to Medicare , 90 percent of the group polled wants to keep funding at similar levels or increase spending on the insurance plan for seniors, with just 8 percent in favor of decreasing spending. For Medicaid, the health program for low-income Americans, 84 percent favor stable or higher levels of funding, with 12 percent looking for a decrease. Those polled were overwhelmingly covered by some form of health insurance, by a 85-15 percent margin. The largest subsection of respondents who receive coverage -- 39 percent -- do so through their employer, with a spouse's employer finishing in second at 11 percent. Of those who purchase their own coverage -- 8 percent of those surveyed -- fewer than half, or three percent of the total, did so through healthcare.gov or a state marketplace. The poll was conducted of 1,160 adults over the age of 18 and had a margin of error of 3 percent. Shares                  Obamacare favorability nears record propelled by independents: poll   President Trump, first lady host first ball in the White House   GOP congressman says no room for compromise in repealing Obamacare   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Democrats' new chair on electoral mistakes: 'We ignored rural swaths of America'   Pelosi: Trump 'has nothing to show' for 1st month in office except 'fear'   White House spokesperson on call for special prosecutor in Russia probe: We're not 'there yet'   'This Week' Transcript 2-26-17: Leader Nancy Pelosi, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Rep. Jim Jordan, and Tom Perez   Former Labor Secretary Tom Perez elected DNC chair   10 celebs react to Trump's decision to skip star-studded dinner   Trump says he won't attend White House Correspondents Dinner   White House worked with House and Senate intelligence chairs to rebut Russia ties   What you need to know about new DNC chair Tom Perez   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera

A new poll gauging the public's feelings on the ongoing battle over healthcare finds continued displeasure with the current policy direction, but near record positive impressions of the Affordable Care Act.

The tracking poll, conducted by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, finds 48 percent of its respondents had a very or somewhat favorable view of the legislation, commonly known as Obamacare, the highest level since September 2010, when 49 percent of those viewed it favorably.

President Obama signed the measure into law earlier that year.

The Affordable Care Act's popularity in the poll was boosted by independents. Some 50 percent of that group answered that they view the legislation as very or somewhat favorable.

At the same time, 62 percent of those polled say that the country is headed down the wrong track when it comes to health care. On whether to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the poll is nearly split with 48 percent of respondents saying no and 47 percent saying yes.

Of the 47 percent who believe the law should be repealed, a majority -- 59 percent -- think that lawmakers should wait to vote on it "until the details of [a] replacement plan have been announced." Just 38 percent of the repeal group wants an immediate vote.

With regard to Medicare, 90 percent of the group polled wants to keep funding at similar levels or increase spending on the insurance plan for seniors, with just 8 percent in favor of decreasing spending. For Medicaid, the health program for low-income Americans, 84 percent favor stable or higher levels of funding, with 12 percent looking for a decrease.

Those polled were overwhelmingly covered by some form of health insurance, by a 85-15 percent margin. The largest subsection of respondents who receive coverage -- 39 percent -- do so through their employer, with a spouse's employer finishing in second at 11 percent.

Of those who purchase their own coverage -- 8 percent of those surveyed -- fewer than half, or three percent of the total, did so through healthcare.gov or a state marketplace.

The poll was conducted of 1,160 adults over the age of 18 and had a margin of error of 3 percent.