Troy Stecher Among 5 Canucks Players Quarantined for Mumps
Troy Stecher Among 5 Canucks Players Quarantined for Mumps
The Vancouver Canucks could be without five players during Saturday's game against the San Jose Sharks because of the mumps virus. On Friday, ESPN.com noted defenseman Troy Stecher was diagnosed with the disease, and defensemen Chris Tanev and Nikita Tryamkin and forwards Mike Chaput and Markus Granlund displayed symptoms and were quarantined for a five-day period (or until the tests they underwent return negative). According to Jason Botchford and Scott Brown of , bloodwork was expected back later Friday, and negative tests would allow the players to play Tuesday against the Detroit Red Wings . Botchford and Brown said Tryamkin could play as soon as Saturday if his test is negative. "We're sitting here with our fingers crossed," general manager Jim Benning said, per Botchford and Brown. "We don't know if there will be more. If anyone else calls in with swollen glands, or they're sick or they're not feeling well, we will get going right away on the process and get their bloodwork done." Benning added that defenseman Evan McEneny and forward Alex Grenier would be recalled for Saturday's contest as a result. Botchford and Brown noted mumps can spread through sharing water bottles, and someone with the virus may not show symptoms for two weeks. This is not the first mumps incident in the NHL , as 14 players, including Sidney Crosby , missed time during the 2014 season with the virus. According to ESPN.com, the Canucks issued a statement Friday revealing players were administered vaccines to mitigate further risk. The potential outbreak comes at a worrisome time for Vancouver considering it is nine points out of the final playoff spot in the Western Conference with just 22 games remaining. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Matthew Stockman/Getty Images

The Vancouver Canucks could be without five players during Saturday's game against the San Jose Sharks because of the mumps virus.

On Friday, ESPN.com noted defenseman Troy Stecher was diagnosed with the disease, and defensemen Chris Tanev and Nikita Tryamkin and forwards Mike Chaput and Markus Granlund displayed symptoms and were quarantined for a five-day period (or until the tests they underwent return negative).

According to Jason Botchford and Scott Brown of The Province, bloodwork was expected back later Friday, and negative tests would allow the players to play Tuesday against the Detroit Red Wings.

Botchford and Brown said Tryamkin could play as soon as Saturday if his test is negative.

"We're sitting here with our fingers crossed," general manager Jim Benning said, per Botchford and Brown. "We don't know if there will be more. If anyone else calls in with swollen glands, or they're sick or they're not feeling well, we will get going right away on the process and get their bloodwork done."

Benning added that defenseman Evan McEneny and forward Alex Grenier would be recalled for Saturday's contest as a result.

Botchford and Brown noted mumps can spread through sharing water bottles, and someone with the virus may not show symptoms for two weeks.

This is not the first mumps incident in the NHL, as 14 players, including Sidney Crosby, missed time during the 2014 season with the virus.

According to ESPN.com, the Canucks issued a statement Friday revealing players were administered vaccines to mitigate further risk.

The potential outbreak comes at a worrisome time for Vancouver considering it is nine points out of the final playoff spot in the Western Conference with just 22 games remaining.