26 Little Things That Ruin Every Teacher’s Day
26 Little Things That Ruin Every Teacher's Day
When a student asks you a question you don’t know the answer to. You cover it up like: “Well, what do think the answer is, Amina?” When you ask a question and all you get is tumbleweed. Getting invited out on a weeknight when you’ve got a shit ton of homework to do. Getting invited on a holiday or to a festival during term time. You are so fucking jealous of your friends who can still go to Glastonbury. When you can’t be bothered with life and want to pull a sickie, then remember you’re the teacher. Waking up with a cold and knowing you still have to go to work. When you wake up at 6am and realise IT’S A SATURDAY but can’t go back to sleep. That one kid who knows the two little words that will eventually destroy you. “Because I say so, that’s why!” When you’re forced to shut down their incessant questions with this cop-out. You’ve become that teacher you hated at school. When you lose your cool with a class and have to try to style it out. You’re no better than your students sometimes. Bumping into a student somewhere ~awkward~. Two young trendy female friends laughing in a clothing store as the one holds up a bra and panties to her body. When the younger kids don’t spare your feelings. When you get asked The Question. When a student wants to ~discuss~ their grade. When your kids follow all your instructions . Realising your students are onto you. When your students don’t even try. Feeling like King Canute battling the unceasing tide of kids who DGAF about the English language. That 3pm feeling. Having to make copies of something. Someone, anyone, saying this: You will destroy them. There, fixed it for you: When your non-teacher friends moan about how much “holiday” you get. When it gets to 10pm and you still don’t have a lesson plan for tomorrow. Finding out how much your non-teacher friends get paid. Trying to book a trip to Spain then realising it costs double because it’s in the school holidays. It’s the most unfair thing in the world. Friday finally arriving… …but you feel like this:   26 Little Things That Ruin Every Teacher's Day    23 Things You'll Only Get If You're 50% Hella Organised...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.