Anti-Semitism row at Bristol University as lecturers rally round academic who claimed Jews should stop 'privileging' the Holocaust
Anti-Semitism row at Bristol University as lecturers rally round academic who claimed Jews should stop 'privileging' the Holocaust
n anti-Semitism row has erupted at Bristol University as lecturers rally round an academic who claimed Jews should stop “privileging” the Holocaust. The university is investigating Dr Rebecca Gould,  reader in translation studies and comparative literature, after she was accused of using “the language of Holocaust denial” in an article . But now three professors have rushed to her defence, saying they see “no evidence” of anti-Semitism in her article,  which was published in a 2011 edition of the American radical left-wing magazine Counter Punch. Professor Gene Feder, Professor Havi Hannah Carel and Dr Tom Sperlinger Reader have written a joint letter in which they say they are “dismayed” at the criticism. r Gould claims that casting the Holocaust as a “holy event” allows it to be used as a tool by the state of Israel to “whitewash its crimes”. She adds that “Israel must find a way of not passing on the crimes the Nazis introduced into the world onto the next generation of its citizens”. She concludes by writing that “perhaps the time has come to stop privileging the Holocaust as the central event in Jewish history”. The university have said they are “actively looking into this matter”, which first arose when an undergraduate penned an open letter to his lecturer last month, explaining his shock at coming across the article. ir Eric Pickles MP, who is the UK’s special envoy on post-Holocaust issues and a former Conservative Party chairman,claimed it is “one of the worst cases of Holocaust denial" he has seen in recent years, adding that she should "consider her position" at the university. The three professors, who say they have all had family members who were murdered in the Holocaust, now claim that Dr Gould does not “deny or minimise the devastating reality of the Holocaust”. They add: “Indeed, she is scrupulous in arguing that it should not be employed for political ends, including to justify occupation and treatment of Palestinians in Israel. “It would be entirely reasonable if readers disagreed with some of Dr. Gould's points, but that does not justify depriving her of the right to make them in public and academic spaces.” When contacted by The Telegraph, Dr Gould declined to retract her comments, arguing that her article was a “rallying call to action” for “people of conscience horrified by the slaughter of six million Jews by the Nazi regime to stand up against all atrocities and injustices today around the world, including in the occupied Palestinian territories”. Denying claims of anti-Semitism Dr Gould quoted  Edward W. Said: "The task of criticism...is to make distinctions...To oppose Zionism in Palestine has never meant, and does not now mean, being anti-Semitic." A spokesman for Bristol University said that the vice-Chancellor received a formal letter of complaint about the lecturer earlier this month. “Academic freedom and freedom of speech are at the heart of our mission at the University of Bristol,” the spokesman said. “Since receiving a letter from the Campaign against Anti-Semitism yesterday we are actively looking into this matter.”

Sir Eric Pickles MP, who is the UK’s special envoy on post-Holocaust issues and a former Conservative Party chairman,claimed it is “one of the worst cases of Holocaust denial" he has seen in recent years, adding that she should "consider her position" at the university.

The three professors, who say they have all had family members who were murdered in the Holocaust, now claim that Dr Gould does not “deny or minimise the devastating reality of the Holocaust”.

They add: “Indeed, she is scrupulous in arguing that it should not be employed for political ends, including to justify occupation and treatment of Palestinians in Israel.

“It would be entirely reasonable if readers disagreed with some of Dr. Gould's points, but that does not justify depriving her of the right to make them in public and academic spaces.”

When contacted by The Telegraph, Dr Gould declined to retract her comments, arguing that her article was a “rallying call to action” for “people of conscience horrified by the slaughter of six million Jews by the Nazi regime to stand up against all atrocities and injustices today around the world, including in the occupied Palestinian territories”.

Denying claims of anti-Semitism Dr Gould quoted Edward W. Said: "The task of criticism...is to make distinctions...To oppose Zionism in Palestine has never meant, and does not now mean, being anti-Semitic."

A spokesman for Bristol University said that the vice-Chancellor received a formal letter of complaint about the lecturer earlier this month.

“Academic freedom and freedom of speech are at the heart of our mission at the University of Bristol,” the spokesman said. “Since receiving a letter from the Campaign against Anti-Semitism yesterday we are actively looking into this matter.”