Which Iconic Kim Kardashian Instagram Photo Got The Most Likes?
Which Iconic Kim Kardashian Instagram Photo Got The Most Likes?
Which Iconic Kim Kardashian Instagram Photo Got The Most Likes?  You got:
								
								Wrong!  Although iconic, Kim’s vampire selfie only got 150,000 likes making it the least popular of the bunch.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  Kim’s ~belfie~ became instantly iconic and inspired a whole book of selfies. However, with 1.1 million likes, it’s not the most popular of these pics.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  Kanye directed this fur bikini shoot, but his work only received 980,000 likes.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  But so close! This is the second most-liked picture on Kim’s Instagram – and, at one point, was the most popular Instagram post of all time, with 2.4 million likes.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  The “just married” jackets were nothing short of iconic, but this image isn’t the most liked here, with 738,000 double-taps.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  Remember Kim caused when she cropped North out of this photo because “her eyes were shut and I was feeling my look!” All of that furore for just 685,000 likes.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  Kim and Kanye had North West baptised in the birth place of actual Jesus Christ, but this iconic photo only amassed 832,000 likes.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  Kanye’s proposal to Kim was an OTT affair involving a baseball stadium, 50 piece orchestra, fireworks and a 15 carat ring. This photo from the occasion received 965,000 likes, so it’s not the most popular here.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  Kim’s naked selfie became an international talking point, but it’s actually the third most liked photo here.    You got:
								
								Correct!  After her horrific robbery ordeal when she was held up at gunpoint, Kim stayed completely off social media for an unprecedented 3 months. She returned with this family portrait – and it became her most liked photo ever, with 4.2 million double-taps.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  Kim’s vacation to Mexico was thirst-trapping at its finest, and this iconic beach selfie proved pretty popular, with 1.2 million likes.    You got:
								
								Wrong!  This snap of Kanye in bed, and her caption: “Side chicks be like” was iconic af, but this pic isn’t the most liked of the bunch, with 1.2 million.   SHARE YOUR RESULTS   26 Little Things That Ruin Every Teacher's Day    23 Things You'll Only Get If You're 50% Hella Organised...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

You got: Wrong! Although iconic, Kim’s vampire selfie only got 150,000 likes making it the least popular of the bunch.

You got: Wrong! Kim’s ~belfie~ became instantly iconic and inspired a whole book of selfies. However, with 1.1 million likes, it’s not the most popular of these pics.

You got: Wrong! Kanye directed this fur bikini shoot, but his work only received 980,000 likes.

You got: Wrong! But so close! This is the second most-liked picture on Kim’s Instagram – and, at one point, was the most popular Instagram post of all time, with 2.4 million likes.

You got: Wrong! The “just married” jackets were nothing short of iconic, but this image isn’t the most liked here, with 738,000 double-taps.

You got: Wrong! Remember Kim caused when she cropped North out of this photo because “her eyes were shut and I was feeling my look!” All of that furore for just 685,000 likes.

You got: Wrong! Kim and Kanye had North West baptised in the birth place of actual Jesus Christ, but this iconic photo only amassed 832,000 likes.

You got: Wrong! Kanye’s proposal to Kim was an OTT affair involving a baseball stadium, 50 piece orchestra, fireworks and a 15 carat ring. This photo from the occasion received 965,000 likes, so it’s not the most popular here.

You got: Wrong! Kim’s naked selfie became an international talking point, but it’s actually the third most liked photo here.

You got: Correct! After her horrific robbery ordeal when she was held up at gunpoint, Kim stayed completely off social media for an unprecedented 3 months. She returned with this family portrait – and it became her most liked photo ever, with 4.2 million double-taps.

You got: Wrong! Kim’s vacation to Mexico was thirst-trapping at its finest, and this iconic beach selfie proved pretty popular, with 1.2 million likes.