After Brutally Killing A Kangaroo With Metal Pipe, Two Men Have Been Jailed In Australia
After Brutally Killing A Kangaroo With Metal Pipe, Two Men Have Been Jailed In Australia
After Brutally Killing A Kangaroo With Metal Pipe, Two Men Have Been Jailed In Australia If you’re in Australia and if you kill a kangaroo, then be ready get penalised! Australia clearly does not entertain people who ill-treat a kangaroos. A computer was seized in a raid which contained a video of Craig Jamie House and Vance Geoffrey Jarvis killing a kangaroo with a metal pipe. They were therefore summoned at the Bunbury Magistrate Court and pleaded guilty for their crime. The incident took place in June 2015 in East Bunbury in Australia. People are wondering at the coincidence that the crime would have gone unreported, if the computer didn’t get seized! The footage shows how cruel the men were to the poor kangaroo! They threw rocks at it and thrashed it with a crowbar until it breathed it last. They then dragged it from the river and ate it. Craig Jamie House told the court that he killed the kangaroo to eat it because he was living off the land and was having a tough time financially. “I tried to put out the ‘roo in the most humanely way I could,” he said. Craig Jamie House was given an 11 month jail sentence, whereas his friend was slapped with a $10,000 AUS (£6,000) fine. Now that’s how you deal with animal abusers! Let Australia show you how  to do it. Watch the video here.

If you’re in Australia and if you kill a kangaroo, then be ready get penalised! Australia clearly does not entertain people who ill-treat a kangaroos. A computer was seized in a raid which contained a video of Craig Jamie House and Vance Geoffrey Jarvis killing a kangaroo with a metal pipe.

Supplied

They were therefore summoned at the Bunbury Magistrate Court and pleaded guilty for their crime. The incident took place in June 2015 in East Bunbury in Australia. People are wondering at the coincidence that the crime would have gone unreported, if the computer didn’t get seized!

The footage shows how cruel the men were to the poor kangaroo! They threw rocks at it and thrashed it with a crowbar until it breathed it last. They then dragged it from the river and ate it. Craig Jamie House told the court that he killed the kangaroo to eat it because he was living off the land and was having a tough time financially. “I tried to put out the ‘roo in the most humanely way I could,” he said.

Supplied

Craig Jamie House was given an 11 month jail sentence, whereas his friend was slapped with a $10,000 AUS (£6,000) fine. Now that’s how you deal with animal abusers! Let Australia show you how to do it. Watch the video here.

Don't Miss 52.9 K SHARES 39 K SHARES 25.4 K SHARES