Foreign women needed for Chinese bachelors
Foreign women needed to marry Chinese men, says scholar


About 30 million men in China can't find wives in China due to the country's gender imbalance issue. That's nearly half of the population of Britain.

And a renowned scholar seemed to have found a shortcut to deal with the looming 'bachelor crisis': foreign women.

Mao Shoulong, a dean from the Renmin University, wrote in a newspaper column that more female immigrants should be encouraged to live and work in China, so that they would perhaps marry Chinese 'leftover men'.

Mao Shoulong (pictured), a dean from the Renmin University, made the claim in a column

Mao, a scholar, professor and sociologist, said that the government should allow more foreign women to live in the country, whose population is 1.3 billion.

He wrote: 'It could be an advisable tactic to aptly improve the reformation of the immigration policy and let more foreign women to come to live and work in China so as to relieve the "bachelor crisis".'

The article was published today on The Beijing News, a publication affiliated to the Propaganda Department of the Municipal Party Committee of Beijing.

Mao claimed in the article that the recently launched two-child policy will not fully resolve the gender gap issue.

He then went on explaining the many issues the society will likely face if too many people are forced to live a single life, such as property and the ageing of population.

Around 15 million Chinese men aged between 35 and 59 won't be able to find wives by 2020, and by 2050 the number is set to double

The man then said it's very difficult for the government to use policies to fill the gender gap.

It is impossible on a technical and moral level to encourage people to give birth to baby girls, Mao wrote.

To conclude his column, the man pitched some possible methods the government could use to deal with the 'bachelor crisis', such as to encourage more companies to offer marital service and to reduce marital cost.

Many Chinese bachelors pay high prices to marry Vietnamese brides, prompting human-trafficking concerns

Traditionally, baby boys are preferred by Chinese parents because of their ability to carry forward the family name.

Decades of illegal baby gender selection, prompted by the one-child policy, has caused the country to suffer from a severe gender gap.

The gender ratio between baby boys and baby girls has reached 1.3 to 1 at its highest.

It's been estimated that around 15 million men between the ages of 35 and 59 won't be able to find wives by 2020, reported People's Daily, and by 2050 the number would be nearly 30 million.

Many Chinese bachelors, mostly from southern China, have paid high prices to marry Vietnamese women after failing to find Chinese partners, prompting human-trafficking concerns.