Three Questions To Ask Before Quitting Your Job
Three Questions To Ask Before Quitting Your Job
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  David K. Williams       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Do it. Don’t do it. Leave. Stay. The hiring strategy of today’s workforce is more polarized than ever. Even as many companies strive to develop supportive work cultures that attract valuable employees, new hires are reluctant to show loyalty to one company for too long. According to the most recent U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data , as of September 2016, the median time that wage and salaried workers stayed with their current employers was 4.6 years. For young employees, ages 25 to 34, it’s 2.8 years. “Things have changed,” says Forbes contributor Jacquelyn Smith . “As job longevity becomes a thing of the past, employers and recruiters are beginning to have a different outlook on job hopping.” The stigma of presenting a diverse—almost transitory—resume may not squash your chances at securing a job, but how you negotiate this path can make a huge difference in a career. Should you leave or should you stay? For employees who feel disengaged or unappreciated, it could be the result of a work culture mismatch . . . or it may be that the manager simply needs training. “When a job situation becomes difficult or too challenging, it's easier to change jobs than to work through the problem,” says Lou Adler , CEO of The Adler Group. “As a result, we've made job hopping acceptable.” Being distracted by day-to-day challenges makes it hard to recognize the long-term potential of a job. No company is perfect. You may discover those problems exist at every company but only after you’ve given up on what could have been a good fit in the long run. Despite our efforts to separate our professional and personal lives, job stability influences our long-term goals. For example, should you decide to purchase or refinance your home, the loan officer will consider your work history. A background dotted with two- or four-year stints with different employers doesn’t bode well for someone who needs a 30-year loan. If there’s one thing employers hate, it’s turnover costs. A recent study by the Center for American Progress found that the cost of losing an executive is up to 213 of the employee’s salary. This motivates many employees to seek out employees who will stay with the company long-term. And when new opportunities arise, it’s often the long-term employees who get the first look. The thoughtful job hopper has acquired a unique skillset and knowledge of various operations, resources, and strategy background that proves helpful as a new hire. These hires bring exciting networking opportunities and cross-training knowledge. But with that experience comes a higher expectation to produce quick results.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Do it. Don’t do it. Leave. Stay. The hiring strategy of today’s workforce is more polarized than ever. Even as many companies strive to develop supportive work cultures that attract valuable employees, new hires are reluctant to show loyalty to one company for too long.

According to the most recent U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data, as of September 2016, the median time that wage and salaried workers stayed with their current employers was 4.6 years. For young employees, ages 25 to 34, it’s 2.8 years. “Things have changed,” says Forbes contributor Jacquelyn Smith. “As job longevity becomes a thing of the past, employers and recruiters are beginning to have a different outlook on job hopping.” The stigma of presenting a diverse—almost transitory—resume may not squash your chances at securing a job, but how you negotiate this path can make a huge difference in a career.

Here are three questions to ask yourself before you give your two-weeks’ notice.

Are the problems fixable? For employees who feel disengaged or unappreciated, it could be the result of a work culture mismatch . . . or it may be that the manager simply needs training.

“When a job situation becomes difficult or too challenging, it's easier to change jobs than to work through the problem,” says Lou Adler, CEO of The Adler Group. “As a result, we've made job hopping acceptable.”

Being distracted by day-to-day challenges makes it hard to recognize the long-term potential of a job. No company is perfect. You may discover those problems exist at every company but only after you’ve given up on what could have been a good fit in the long run.

Do you value stability? Despite our efforts to separate our professional and personal lives, job stability influences our long-term goals. For example, should you decide to purchase or refinance your home, the loan officer will consider your work history. A background dotted with two- or four-year stints with different employers doesn’t bode well for someone who needs a 30-year loan.

If there’s one thing employers hate, it’s turnover costs. A recent study by the Center for American Progress found that the cost of losing an executive is up to 213 of the employee’s salary. This motivates many employees to seek out employees who will stay with the company long-term. And when new opportunities arise, it’s often the long-term employees who get the first look.

Are you moving up or just moving around? There’s a difference between moving around to gain experience, knowledge, and advanced skills and just moving around. The thoughtful job hopper has acquired a unique skillset and knowledge of various operations, resources, and strategy background that proves helpful as a new hire. These hires bring exciting networking opportunities and cross-training knowledge. But with that experience comes a higher expectation to produce quick results.