This dentist put a 'Where's Wally' scene on his ceiling for patients
This dentist put a 'Where's Wally' scene on his ceiling for patients
But one dentist has had a genius idea to make the time pass quicker for his patients. Reddit user Michael Mannion posted a photo of his dentist’s genius idea on Reddit .  That’s right. He's put on the ceiling. Sadly, it seems from the comments that most people’s dentists don’t quite live up to the same standards:  Nice. My dentist only offered abstract water stains from his leaky roof.  I suggested having something to read in the ceiling to my dentist last week! She looked to me as if I had said something stupid.  My gynaecologist has a picture of George Clooney on the ceiling.  I know my dentist have Phillips lightbulbs and has had the same 6 dead flies trapped in the fixture since like 2011. I always play the game, 'How many words can I make out of Phillips? Pill, lips, hill, sill, ....'. That usually last about 2 minutes.   I always thought dentists should put sign language charts on their ceilings.                     Keep scrolling for next article

The dentist is about as much fun as being locked in a room with wall-to-wall TVs playing 24-hour coverage of Donald Trump speaking at press conferences.

But one dentist has had a genius idea to make the time pass quicker for his patients.

Reddit user Michael Mannion posted a photo of his dentist’s genius idea on Reddit.

Here it is:

Picture: Reddit/ Michael Mannion



That’s right.

He's put Where’s Wally? on the ceiling.

Sadly, it seems from the comments that most people’s dentists don’t quite live up to the same standards:

Nice. My dentist only offered abstract water stains from his leaky roof.

-cowgirl2000

I suggested having something to read in the ceiling to my dentist last week! She looked to me as if I had said something stupid.

-Mirashe

My gynaecologist has a picture of George Clooney on the ceiling.

-josscrock

I know my dentist have Phillips lightbulbs and has had the same 6 dead flies trapped in the fixture since like 2011. I always play the game, 'How many words can I make out of Phillips? Pill, lips, hill, sill, ....'. That usually last about 2 minutes.

-cherrysizzle

And then someone had this genius idea:

I always thought dentists should put sign language charts on their ceilings.

-nowhereman136

Doesn't quite live up to Where's Wally? though.

More: A dentist has revealed the best way to whiten your teeth

More: Where's Nigel? Ukip leader immortalised in Where's Wally-style comic book