Colombians arrest gangster suspected of 117 murders
Colombian police arrest gangster suspected of 117 murders


Colombian police have arrested a man suspected of 117 murders after a year-long investigation.

The man, identified as John Alexander Calderon Vidal, alias Largo (Large), was arrested in the city of Cali, in the western Colombian department of Valle del Cauca.

He was the leader of a criminal gang and has been charged with 117 homicides, committed in the city of Cali and on Colombia’s Atlantic coast.

Colombian police claim John Alexander Calderon Vidal, alias Largo - also known as Large - is responsible for 117 murders including the dismembering of an army officer in 2011

Police arrested him following a year-long surveillance operation in the cartel stronghold of Cali

Henry Jimenez, sub commander of the police of Cali announced the high profile arrest

The arrest took place in a flat in Cali.

Among his victims is thought to be Army Officer Nicolas Alberto Brito, who disappeared and was found dismembered and buried in 2011.

Largo is also suspected of the murder of Gaby Daza, the head of the gang called La 40 in the city of Barranquilla.

According to official sources, Largo was also a member of a gang called Los Rastrojos, which was under the control of drug lord Wilber Varela, alias Jabon.

After that gang was disbanded, Largo joined another gang led by a man nicknamed Seco. Then he decided to leave the gang following a power struggle with the leader and set up his own outfit, which was involved in drug trafficking and homicide, according to reports.

Largo was led on a perp walk in front of the media before being taken to a high security jail

Grainy footage showing the moment of Largo's arrest have been released by the police.

Largo was under heavy guard at the police station where he was initially held, as officers feared his accomplices might try to break him out.

After being paraded before journalists, Largo was taken to a prison to be held on remand.

After an alleged long criminal career in various gangs, he is expected to be tried for homicide, blackmail and weapons trafficking.