Why The Republican Plan To Tax Imports Won't Create More American Jobs
Why The Republican Plan To Tax Imports Won't Create More American Jobs
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Charles Wallace       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. US President Donald Trump speaks during a meeting with retail industry leaders in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington, DC, February 15. (SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images) A Republican plan to tax imports as a part of a strategy for generating new manufacturing jobs in the United States received a blow Wednesday from a new study that concludes the levies would not help U.S. companies sell more products abroad. The independent Tax Foundation said in a long critique of the House Republican proposal to impose “destination taxes” that the plan would probably stop multinational companies from shifting profits overseas to escape corporate taxes and said the system would be generally fairer than the current method of corporate taxation. But the foundation’s analysis of the impact of so-called border adjustment taxes on reducing imports and promoting exports of U.S. made goods – a centerpiece of President Trump’s trade strategy -- said that there would be likely no change in the amount of goods sold overseas from the current system of “origin” taxes. The current tax system imposes taxes on company profits where a product is made – its origin – regardless of where it is sold. The destination tax would impose taxes on company profits from imports, such as cars made in Mexico and stereos made in China, but not tax exports such as profits made from selling Boeing jetliners abroad. “This view—that origin- and destination-based taxes have different impacts on the trade balance—is wrong,” the foundation said. “Both an origin-based tax and a destination-based tax are trade-neutral and switching from one to another does not impact the trade balance.” The Tax Foundation argues that under a destination tax system, the U.S. dollar would inevitably rise against foreign currencies, lowering the cost of imported goods and reducing the cost advantage of domestically made goods. If the currencies don’t adjust, the prices of comparable goods would eventually equalize because increased demand for U.S.-produced goods in the domestic market would cause impact supplies and labor costs. Domestic prices would increase to the level of imports even though they are not taxed, the foundation said. The study noted that there is a difference between destination taxes and import tariffs, which do raise the cost of foreign goods. Trump has threatened to impose tariffs on goods manufactured in Chinese and Mexican factories to prevent more job losses in the United States. Trump has said that when he heard the term destination tax, “I don’t love it.” But the plan is being championed by House Speaker Paul Ryan as part of a restructuring of America’s corporate tax system by reducing the overall corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%, which Trump has said he does approve of. Ryan is now trying to sell the idea to the Senate. The Tax Foundation said the House proposal is likely to run into extreme opposition under the World Trade Organization, which prohibits countries from raising barriers to imports.     Trending on {{channel_name}}

A Republican plan to tax imports as a part of a strategy for generating new manufacturing jobs in the United States received a blow Wednesday from a new study that concludes the levies would not help U.S. companies sell more products abroad.

The independent Tax Foundation said in a long critique of the House Republican proposal to impose “destination taxes” that the plan would probably stop multinational companies from shifting profits overseas to escape corporate taxes and said the system would be generally fairer than the current method of corporate taxation.

But the foundation’s analysis of the impact of so-called border adjustment taxes on reducing imports and promoting exports of U.S. made goods – a centerpiece of President Trump’s trade strategy -- said that there would be likely no change in the amount of goods sold overseas from the current system of “origin” taxes.

The current tax system imposes taxes on company profits where a product is made – its origin – regardless of where it is sold. The destination tax would impose taxes on company profits from imports, such as cars made in Mexico and stereos made in China, but not tax exports such as profits made from selling Boeing jetliners abroad.

“This view—that origin- and destination-based taxes have different impacts on the trade balance—is wrong,” the foundation said. “Both an origin-based tax and a destination-based tax are trade-neutral and switching from one to another does not impact the trade balance.”

The Tax Foundation argues that under a destination tax system, the U.S. dollar would inevitably rise against foreign currencies, lowering the cost of imported goods and reducing the cost advantage of domestically made goods.

If the currencies don’t adjust, the prices of comparable goods would eventually equalize because increased demand for U.S.-produced goods in the domestic market would cause impact supplies and labor costs. Domestic prices would increase to the level of imports even though they are not taxed, the foundation said.

The study noted that there is a difference between destination taxes and import tariffs, which do raise the cost of foreign goods. Trump has threatened to impose tariffs on goods manufactured in Chinese and Mexican factories to prevent more job losses in the United States.

Trump has said that when he heard the term destination tax, “I don’t love it.” But the plan is being championed by House Speaker Paul Ryan as part of a restructuring of America’s corporate tax system by reducing the overall corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%, which Trump has said he does approve of. Ryan is now trying to sell the idea to the Senate.

The Tax Foundation said the House proposal is likely to run into extreme opposition under the World Trade Organization, which prohibits countries from raising barriers to imports.