Why you need to binge-watch Carrie Fisher's final TV show immediately
Why you need to binge-watch Carrie Fisher's final TV show immediately
Carrie Fisher might be best remembered for her role as Princess — and later General — Leia. But her final, wildly outspoken TV role is a reminder of all the reasons why we love her. Two months after her death, Carrie Fisher will return to screens for her TV swan song in Channel 4's hit comedy show . SEE ALSO: How to stream Carrie Fisher's scene-stealing roles (besides Princess Leia) first hit screens in January 2015, and since then it's gained a cult status in the UK and in the U.S. If you're not familiar with the show's premise, look away now — spoilers abound. The series begins with a six-night fling of no-strings-attached sex between two strangers Rob (Rob Delaney) — an American businessman visiting London — and Sharon (Sharon Horgan) — an Irish primary school teacher living in London. But back in Boston, Rob gets a phone call from Sharon who's got some news: She's pregnant. A panic-stricken Rob calls his mum (Carrie Fisher) who gives him some frank — albeit terrible — advice. "You do not have to stay there. It's just a foreign baby," says Mia (Fisher). Thankfully, Rob doesn't heed his mum's advice, and instead gets on a plane to visit Sharon in London — where he remains indefinitely. It's something of an understatement to say that their lives are immediately turned on their heads. There's something wonderfully relatable and completely hilarious about the hapless way Sharon and Rob deal with the endless stream of disasters that arise. When Sharon's not puking in a schoolchild's lap, Rob is failing miserably to hang on to his job as he works remotely in London. tells the tale of an accidental love story — with a load of drama thrown in on the side. Fisher's character pops up at various points throughout the first two seasons and, on each occasion, she is the very epitome of the mother-in-law from hell. At a screening of the first two episodes of the upcoming series, Delaney — who co-writes the show with Horgan — said Fisher was an obvious choice for the role, but they never dreamt she would accept the part. "It came about because we wanted Rob to have an awful mother," he said. And awful she most certainly is. But, in the upcoming series, Fisher's role is set to be more significant and emotionally charged as her son struggles with alcoholism. According to Delaney, Episode 6 of the series will feature "emotionally powerful scenes." Yes, Carrie Fisher is actually a much larger part of this series than previous ones. She's a powerhouse. https://t.co/l6aMFGpdIL — rob delaney (@robdelaney) February 18, 2017 For the cast, Fisher's "bigger, chunkier" role in Season 3 meant they got to spend more time with her. "We feel very privileged and honoured," said Horgan at the screening. "She was funny all the time. She was incredibly witty company and loved saying assholey things to everyone but also was just a really lovely, kind, supportive person," Horgan said. Carrie was my friend. It took me three series but I got her in the end. She was the most generous, fun, gifted, smart, kind, funny funny funny person I've ever met. She certainly wasn't ready to go. I'm so glad we became pals. I'm so devastated at her loss. I want to write about her more but I can't process yet. A photo posted by Sharon Horgan (@sharonhorgan) on Fisher's "assholey" comments are just as present on-screen, too. Fisher's role in brings her wonderful personality back to the screen. This is a show about the reality of modern relationships for better or worse. — just like Fisher — is relatable, hilarious and bullshit-free. Episode 1 of Series 3 airs on Feb. 28 at 10 p.m. GMT. You can watch Series 1 and 2 of on Amazon Prime and Channel Four On Demand. BONUS: 2016 just got unbearable — 'Star Wars' icon Carrie Fisher is dead at 60

Carrie Fisher might be best remembered for her role as Princess — and later General — Leia. But her final, wildly outspoken TV role is a reminder of all the reasons why we love her.

Two months after her death, Carrie Fisher will return to screens for her TV swan song in Channel 4's hit comedy show Catastrophe.

Catastrophe first hit screens in January 2015, and since then it's gained a cult status in the UK and in the U.S. If you're not familiar with the show's premise, look away now — spoilers abound.

The series begins with a six-night fling of no-strings-attached sex between two strangers Rob (Rob Delaney) — an American businessman visiting London — and Sharon (Sharon Horgan) — an Irish primary school teacher living in London.

But back in Boston, Rob gets a phone call from Sharon who's got some news: She's pregnant. A panic-stricken Rob calls his mum (Carrie Fisher) who gives him some frank — albeit terrible — advice. "You do not have to stay there. It's just a foreign baby," says Mia (Fisher).

Thankfully, Rob doesn't heed his mum's advice, and instead gets on a plane to visit Sharon in London — where he remains indefinitely. It's something of an understatement to say that their lives are immediately turned on their heads.

There's something wonderfully relatable and completely hilarious about the hapless way Sharon and Rob deal with the endless stream of disasters that arise. When Sharon's not puking in a schoolchild's lap, Rob is failing miserably to hang on to his job as he works remotely in London. Catastrophe tells the tale of an accidental love story — with a load of drama thrown in on the side.

Fisher's character pops up at various points throughout the first two seasons and, on each occasion, she is the very epitome of the mother-in-law from hell.

At a screening of the first two episodes of the upcoming series, Delaney — who co-writes the show with Horgan — said Fisher was an obvious choice for the role, but they never dreamt she would accept the part.

"It came about because we wanted Rob to have an awful mother," he said. And awful she most certainly is.

But, in the upcoming series, Fisher's role is set to be more significant and emotionally charged as her son struggles with alcoholism. According to Delaney, Episode 6 of the series will feature "emotionally powerful scenes."

Yes, Carrie Fisher is actually a much larger part of this series than previous ones. She's a powerhouse. https://t.co/l6aMFGpdIL — rob delaney (@robdelaney) February 18, 2017

For the cast, Fisher's "bigger, chunkier" role in Season 3 meant they got to spend more time with her.

"We feel very privileged and honoured," said Horgan at the screening.

"She was funny all the time. She was incredibly witty company and loved saying assholey things to everyone but also was just a really lovely, kind, supportive person," Horgan said.

Fisher's "assholey" comments are just as present on-screen, too. Fisher's role in Catastrophe brings her wonderful personality back to the screen.

This is a show about the reality of modern relationships for better or worse. Catastrophe — just like Fisher — is relatable, hilarious and bullshit-free.

Episode 1 of Series 3 airs on Feb. 28 at 10 p.m. GMT. You can watch Series 1 and 2 of Catastrophe on Amazon Prime and Channel Four On Demand.