Despite Tensions On The Border, Reports Suggest That Mahesh Bhatt Is Planning To Bring Back Pakistani Artists To India
Despite Tensions On The Border, Mahesh Bhatt May Be Planning To Bring Back Pakistani Artists
Despite Tensions On The Border, Reports Suggest That Mahesh Bhatt Is Planning To Bring Back Pakistani Artists To India The dastardly Uri Attacks last year widened the cultural and artistic gap between India and Pakistan. Apart from the ban that was imposed on Pak Artists in India, the film fraternity was caught between political agenda and patriotism for their country. It was a sad news for many Pakistani Artists since actors like Fawad Khan, Mahira Khan definitely saw a bright future in Bollywood. This ban by BJP also caused turbulence for a lot of films including and . However, according to the latest DNA report, Mahesh Bhatt is in talks with the Pakistani Artists, as he plans to collaborate with them. Reports claim that Mahesh Bhatt is bringing Pakistani artistes back to India for a special song on the theme of cross-border peace. The report further claims that Mahesh Bhatt has already approached Ali Zafar, Shafqat Amanat Ali and now planning on getting Atif Aslam and Rahat Fateh Ali Khan on board. This collaboration might also be for a play called Milne Do, which is slated to be staged in Delhi on June 8 and Mumbai on June 23. Rumor mills claim that the artistes who have been approached have given a nod and showed interest in the project. However, we are sure that BJP and MNS would not be very happy with this progress. Let's see how things unfold.

The dastardly Uri Attacks last year widened the cultural and artistic gap between India and Pakistan. Apart from the ban that was imposed on Pak Artists in India, the film fraternity was caught between political agenda and patriotism for their country.

It was a sad news for many Pakistani Artists since actors like Fawad Khan, Mahira Khan definitely saw a bright future in Bollywood. This ban by BJP also caused turbulence for a lot of films including Ae Dil Hai Mushkil and Raees.

DesiFreeTV.com

However, according to the latest DNA report, Mahesh Bhatt is in talks with the Pakistani Artists, as he plans to collaborate with them. Reports claim that Mahesh Bhatt is bringing Pakistani artistes back to India for a special song on the theme of cross-border peace.

The report further claims that Mahesh Bhatt has already approached Ali Zafar, Shafqat Amanat Ali and now planning on getting Atif Aslam and Rahat Fateh Ali Khan on board.

Twitter

This collaboration might also be for a play called Milne Do, which is slated to be staged in Delhi on June 8 and Mumbai on June 23.

Rumor mills claim that the artistes who have been approached have given a nod and showed interest in the project. However, we are sure that BJP and MNS would not be very happy with this progress. Let's see how things unfold.

Don't Miss 1.6 K SHARES 2.3 K SHARES 12.1 K SHARES 31.7 K SHARES 33.6 K SHARES