Women are washing their hair less than three times a week for the first time in a decade
Women are washing their hair less than three times a week for the first time in a decade 
trend for long, flowing hair now means women are washing it less than three times a week for first time in a decade, new data has revealed. Super short and styled hair dos, once made fashionable by the likes of Victoria Beckham and Rihanna, appear to be losing their appeal as the number of women with long hair has increased by 20pc since 2010. As a result some 15 million women in the UK are now wearing their hair long, data from consumer analysts Kantar Worldpanel shows. Long hair is now so popular among British women that they are now more likely to have long hair than their French, German, Italian and Spanish counterparts. Longer styles have traditionally been more popular among girls and young women, but now the trend is being driven by females across the age spectrum. Over a quarter (27pc) of over 55s now sport long tresses, up by 11pc from 16pc in 2010, the study showed. eanwhile the old phrase "long hair, don’t care", which was originally associated with the hippie movement in the 1960s, appears to have made a comeback. It has been reclaimed as a celebration of long locks with the hashtag #longhairdontcare reaching edging towards 8 million posts on Instagram. With more British women wearing their hair "au natural" they are also choosing to wash it less. They now do so on average 2.9 times a week, down from 3.3 times in 2007. According to Kantar women with long hair wash their hair far less frequently than those with shorter styles, with almost 1 in 4 washing their hair just once a week. By contrast 1 in 5 short-haired women wash their hair every day. This lack of washing has has led to women buying less shampoo, with five million fewer litres of sold last year, a loss of £17 million to the market, the study said. Instead more women than ever are buying spray-on dry shampoo, with brands like Batiste booming in popularity. Research by shampoo brand, Herbal Essences, recently revealed that over 25 percent of women are now using dry shampoo to refresh their locks without washing. ut in a bid to get women washing their hair in water more often, shampoo makers have launched new ranges designed to encourage more regular washing, experts at Kantar said. For example L'Oreal has recently launched two low sulfate shampoos, one of which is designed to avoid stripping the colour out of dyed hair, and the other has oils for maintaining long hair. Lauren Feltham, a beauty expert at Kantar Worldpanel, said: "Products like L'Oreal's low sulfate shampoos are designed to capitalise on the long hair trend. The trend is towards washing hair less often but shampoo makers still need people to be washing it." Hair stylist, Anna Cofone, argued that less frequent hair washing was good for hair health. She said: “Our hair loves the oils that are produced naturally by the scalp; they help to keep hair moisturised and healthy. Ideally, you should go for three or four days between washes."

A trend for long, flowing hair now means women are washing it less than three times a week for first time in a decade, new data has revealed.

Super short and styled hair dos, once made fashionable by the likes of Victoria Beckham and Rihanna, appear to be losing their appeal as the number of women with long hair has increased by 20pc since 2010.

As a result some 15 million women in the UK are now wearing their hair long, data from consumer analysts Kantar Worldpanel shows.

Long hair is now so popular among British women that they are now more likely to have long hair than their French, German, Italian and Spanish counterparts.

Longer styles have traditionally been more popular among girls and young women, but now the trend is being driven by females across the age spectrum. Over a quarter (27pc) of over 55s now sport long tresses, up by 11pc from 16pc in 2010, the study showed.