Europeans brought strains of bacteria to the Americas
Europeans brought strains of bacteria to the Americas 500 years ago


When Europeans came to the Americas over 500 years ago, they unknowingly brought over diseases including measles and smallpox.

But a new study suggests that these diseases may not be the only harmful ones the Europeans brought with them.

Researchers have discovered that Europeans also brought over harmful stomach bacteria which contributes to ulcers and stomach cancer - much of which is still present in Latin America today.

Scroll down for video

Foreign strains of the harmful stomach bacterium (artist's impression) aggressively replaced their American counterparts upon their arrival on the continent in the fifteenth century

BACTERIA FROM EUROPE Scientists from the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden and at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases in Japan analysed 401 H. pylori genome sequences from strains collected in North, Central and South America. Studies of global diversity of H. pylori have shown that Europeans, Africans and Native Americans carry genetically distinct populations of bacteria. They found that European and African strains mixed together across the Americas, with little input from local strains. This suggests that the bacterial populations evolved quickly and spread rapidly to people of different ethnicities.

In 1492, Christopher Columbus began the colonisation of New World by European migrants and Africans brought as slaves, which had catastrophic consequences for the indigenous population.

The new migrants brought unfamiliar weapons and pathogens, including a new population of the stomach-colonising bacterium Helicobacter pylori.

H. pylori bacteria can persist for decades in the stomach and is spread by people in close proximity, as well as from parent to child.

Scientists from the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden and at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases in Japan analysed 401 H. pylori genome sequences from strains collected in North, Central and South America.

Previous studies of H. pylori have shown that Europeans, Africans and Native Americans carry genetically distinct populations of bacteria.

The researchers found that European and African strains mixed together across the Americas, with little input from local strains.

This suggests that the bacterial populations evolved quickly and spread rapidly to people of different ethnicities.

The experts also revealed that the ability of a strain to adapt to a different ethnic group relies on a handful of human immune system genes.

The harmful stomach bacteria contributes to ulcers (artist's impression) and stomach cancer - much of which is still present in Latin America today

Distinct new bacterial sub populations have formed in Colombia from a European source and in Nicaragua and the US from African sources.

Co-author Daniel Falush said: 'Helicobacter pylori has often been described as a pathogen which is mostly passed from parent to child.

'Our study shows that in the Americas its evolution has been much more dynamic. Native American strains have been largely outcompeted.

The findings suggest that distinct new sub-populations of Helicobacter pylori have evolved in North, Central and South America

'Bacteria of African origin seem to have done particularly well, hybridising with strains of European origin and forming distinct new sub-populations, adapted to local conditions, in North, Central and South America.'

The researchers hope that their findings could help prevent the spread of the bacteria, which still contributes to ulcers and stomach cancer today.