Moussa Dembélé scores as Celtic beat Hamilton for 21st straight win

Press Association    Moussa Dembélé made the difference once again with both goals in Celtic’s 2-0 Scottish Premiership win over the bottom side Hamilton at Celtic Park. The 20-year-old striker lit a dull first half with a wonderful strike from the edge of the box just before the break. Dembélé then added a second from the spot just before the hour to take him to 29 goals for the season before he was replaced by Leigh Griffiths, returning from injury. The runaway Premiership leaders coasted to their 21st consecutive league win as they extended their unbeaten domestic run since the start of the season to 32 games. As the stats become more impressive by the week, Brendan Rodgers’ side maintained their 24-point lead over Aberdeen as they motor towards a sixth successive title. Meanwhile Accies, who face Aberdeen on Tuesday before meeting other top-six sides Hearts, Rangers and St Johnstone in the coming weeks, face a tough fight for survival. Rodgers continues to tweak his side and made three changes, with midfielder Stuart Armstrong, right-back Cristian Gamboa and centre-back Erik Sviatchenko restored forMikael Lustig, Jozo Simunovic and Liam Henderson. Martin Canning found his side bottom of the table for the first time this season after Inverness’s win over Rangers on Friday night and he brought in Grant Gillespie and the former academy player Steven Boyd, with Craig Watson and Eamonn Brophy dropping to the bench. Rodgers had called for protection for his players from referees after a couple of recent high-profile fouls. The Celtic manager found himself having to make a change after only nine minutes when the midfielder James Forrest was crunched by a Danny Redmond tackle two minutes earlier. Having failed to respond to treatment the Celtic midfielder was replaced by Gary Mackay-Steven. Celtic found it all a bit of a struggle. Scott Sinclair went close with a 25-yard drive midway through the first half when the ball flew just over. Moments later, in a rare Hamilton counter, the wide-man Dougie Imrie sliced his left-footed drive wide after being set up by Darian McKinnon. However, the home side should have taken the lead beyond the half-hour after a Kieran Tierney cross provided an open goal for Stuart Armstrong but from three yards the midfielder somehow hit the bar. Accies might have thought they were getting all the way to the interval unscathed but, with seconds of the half remaining, Dembélé stepped away from Massimo Donati, a former Celtic player, and from the edge of the box curled a right-footed shot over the Hamilton keeper, Garry Woods, to bring Celtic Park to its feet. The Frenchman almost got another at the start of the second half when he ran on to a Tierney cross but was denied by a blocking Accies foot for a fruitless corner. However, after Donati fouled Tierney inside the box in the 59th minute as the defender drove towards goal, Dembélé thrashed in the penalty. Sinclair had the ball in the net from a Mackay-Steven pass but the offside flag was up before Dembélé received an ovation as he was replaced by Griffiths, back after another niggling calf injury. Celtic cruised the final stages looking for a third, though the Celtic keeper, Craig Gordon, made a fine injury-time save from the substitute Eamonn Brophy, but were content in the end with another perfunctory victory. Rodgers understandably talked up Dembélé afterwards to BBC Scotland: “The boy oozes quality. He has wonderful finishing and I think that was his first one from outside the box, so he’s continually working on that.”  Scottish Premiership   The Observer   Celtic   Hamilton   Aberdeen   Dundee   match reports

Moussa Dembélé made the difference once again with both goals in Celtic’s 2-0 Scottish Premiership win over the bottom side Hamilton at Celtic Park. The 20-year-old striker lit a dull first half with a wonderful strike from the edge of the box just before the break. Dembélé then added a second from the spot just before the hour to take him to 29 goals for the season before he was replaced by Leigh Griffiths, returning from injury.

The runaway Premiership leaders coasted to their 21st consecutive league win as they extended their unbeaten domestic run since the start of the season to 32 games. As the stats become more impressive by the week, Brendan Rodgers’ side maintained their 24-point lead over Aberdeen as they motor towards a sixth successive title.

Meanwhile Accies, who face Aberdeen on Tuesday before meeting other top-six sides Hearts, Rangers and St Johnstone in the coming weeks, face a tough fight for survival.

Rodgers continues to tweak his side and made three changes, with midfielder Stuart Armstrong, right-back Cristian Gamboa and centre-back Erik Sviatchenko restored forMikael Lustig, Jozo Simunovic and Liam Henderson.

Martin Canning found his side bottom of the table for the first time this season after Inverness’s win over Rangers on Friday night and he brought in Grant Gillespie and the former academy player Steven Boyd, with Craig Watson and Eamonn Brophy dropping to the bench.

Rodgers had called for protection for his players from referees after a couple of recent high-profile fouls. The Celtic manager found himself having to make a change after only nine minutes when the midfielder James Forrest was crunched by a Danny Redmond tackle two minutes earlier. Having failed to respond to treatment the Celtic midfielder was replaced by Gary Mackay-Steven.

Celtic found it all a bit of a struggle. Scott Sinclair went close with a 25-yard drive midway through the first half when the ball flew just over. Moments later, in a rare Hamilton counter, the wide-man Dougie Imrie sliced his left-footed drive wide after being set up by Darian McKinnon. However, the home side should have taken the lead beyond the half-hour after a Kieran Tierney cross provided an open goal for Stuart Armstrong but from three yards the midfielder somehow hit the bar.

Accies might have thought they were getting all the way to the interval unscathed but, with seconds of the half remaining, Dembélé stepped away from Massimo Donati, a former Celtic player, and from the edge of the box curled a right-footed shot over the Hamilton keeper, Garry Woods, to bring Celtic Park to its feet. The Frenchman almost got another at the start of the second half when he ran on to a Tierney cross but was denied by a blocking Accies foot for a fruitless corner. However, after Donati fouled Tierney inside the box in the 59th minute as the defender drove towards goal, Dembélé thrashed in the penalty.

Sinclair had the ball in the net from a Mackay-Steven pass but the offside flag was up before Dembélé received an ovation as he was replaced by Griffiths, back after another niggling calf injury.

Celtic cruised the final stages looking for a third, though the Celtic keeper, Craig Gordon, made a fine injury-time save from the substitute Eamonn Brophy, but were content in the end with another perfunctory victory. Rodgers understandably talked up Dembélé afterwards to BBC Scotland: “The boy oozes quality. He has wonderful finishing and I think that was his first one from outside the box, so he’s continually working on that.”