Our Favorite Naani And Jiya To Return On Small Screen As Shruti Seth Confirms Shararat Sequel!
Our Favorite Naani And Jiya To Return On Small Screen As Shruti Seth Confirms Shararat Sequel!
Our Favorite Naani And Jiya To Return On Small Screen As Shruti Seth Confirms Shararat Sequel! Naani and Jiya's camaraderie to their nosy neighbor, the show was epic for reasons more than one. , that starred veteran actor Farida Jalal, Karanvir Bohra, Poonam Narula, Mahesh Thakur, Aditi Shirwaiker and Harsh Vashisht was aired on Star Plus from 2004 to 2009 but after a year later, Disney had bought the rights of the show and they aired the repeat telecast of the whole series. After a mini reunion that the team had a few weeks ago, Shruti Seth, has a really good news for all Shararat fans. Being "shararati" with these two fools @karanvirbohra @simplekaul so glad we've remained the same and stupid I love you guys ❤❤❤❤❤#shararatmemories A post shared by Shruti Seth (@shru2kill) on Feb 8, 2017 at 7:47am PST   Talking to Indian Express, Shruti Seth, who played Jiya in the iconic magical family show confirmed, Sharrrrraaaarat... Reunited! A post shared by Shruti Seth (@shru2kill) on Feb 11, 2017 at 11:50pm PST   “It is under consideration but it is a long process because one has to figure out who does the rights for the show belong to. It aired on Star originally but later was bought by Disney.  There are people, who are working the logistics out. But definitely there is some amount of interest… All the actors want to reunite for a fresh season. We have been getting a lot of love from the audience and it is asking for a second season. So, I think it would be a smart thing to pursue it. But it is not as easy as one would hope. But we can keep our fingers crossed."

“Shring bring sarvaling, bhoot bhavishya vartamaan badling”. Rings a bell?

Yes, this line will surely teleport you to good days when Television had shows that we loved! Shararat was one such show. Naani and Jiya's camaraderie to their nosy neighbor, the show was epic for reasons more than one.

Twitter

Shararat, that starred veteran actor Farida Jalal, Karanvir Bohra, Poonam Narula, Mahesh Thakur, Aditi Shirwaiker and Harsh Vashisht was aired on Star Plus from 2004 to 2009 but after a year later, Disney had bought the rights of the show and they aired the repeat telecast of the whole series.

Star Plus

After a mini reunion that the team had a few weeks ago, Shruti Seth, has a really good news for all Shararat fans.

Being "shararati" with these two fools @karanvirbohra @simplekaul so glad we've remained the same and stupid I love you guys ❤❤❤❤❤#shararatmemories A post shared by Shruti Seth (@shru2kill) on Feb 8, 2017 at 7:47am PST

Talking to Indian Express, Shruti Seth, who played Jiya in the iconic magical family show confirmed,

Sharrrrraaaarat... Reunited! A post shared by Shruti Seth (@shru2kill) on Feb 11, 2017 at 11:50pm PST

“It is under consideration but it is a long process because one has to figure out who does the rights for the show belong to. It aired on Star originally but later was bought by Disney. There are people, who are working the logistics out. But definitely there is some amount of interest… All the actors want to reunite for a fresh season. We have been getting a lot of love from the audience and it is asking for a second season. So, I think it would be a smart thing to pursue it. But it is not as easy as one would hope. But we can keep our fingers crossed."

Don't Miss 9.2 K SHARES 33.6 K SHARES 11.6 K SHARES 5.7 K SHARES 4.9 K SHARES