John Legend's Twitter Account Was Hacked to Threaten Donald Trump and Thirst After Hillary Clinton
John Legend's Twitter Account Was Hacked to Threaten Donald Trump and Thirst After Hillary Clinton
John Legend tends to use his Twitter account to promote a variety of progressive causes and speak out against President Donald Trump. A recent "hack" by another user took his Anti-Trump speech to an extreme, however, and forced the singer to denounce some violent rhetoric spewed from his account. Things started innocently enough. Legend himself tweeted out a couple disparaging messages aimed at Trump on Friday evening, calling Trump a liar and denouncing recent fake crises the administration promoted: Our president is too preoccupied with the crises in Bowling Green and Sweden. He can't speak out against hate crimes by white supremacists. https://t.co/ Quick fact check on the Liar-In-Chief: These particular news outlets are doing extremely well right now. https://t.co/ Legend then became aware of an unauthorized user gaining control of his account, and sent out a warning to his nearly nine million followers: Someone just hacked my account. What transpired after that was a series of off-color tweets, ranging from sexual desire for Hillary Clinton to drug use and violence against Trump. Legend was eventually able to get control of the matter and delete them, but the NSFW screenshots live forever: The big mistake made by the hacker (aside from the obvious) was revealing his username while clowning on Legend's account. That's a one-way ticket to getting banned, and Twitter suspended user @Owen755 following the hack. Legend, however, seemed to think the whole thing was comical. My twitter has been hacked. Will handle asap. My hacker is vulgar but kinda hilarious A post shared by John Legend (@johnlegend) on Not everyone was so sympathetic or appeared to believe in the hack. Even Legend's wife expressed doubt at first!  Once the dust settled, the real Legend (or is it?!) chimed in to tell his followers he might not like the president, but that he'd never go as far as to threaten him: I'm back. My hacker was vulgar and hilarious. I'll try to be funnier from now on so he won't feel the need to ghost write for me. I would never threaten violence to the President. No matter how much I wish he would go away. I wouldn't call him a because I enjoy . I did call him Liar-In-Chief. Then my hacker took over to do the Angrier John version of it all. We expect Legend will take a few extra security measures to keep his account in the right hands moving forward.

John Legend tends to use his Twitter account to promote a variety of progressive causes and speak out against President Donald Trump. A recent "hack" by another user took his Anti-Trump speech to an extreme, however, and forced the singer to denounce some violent rhetoric spewed from his account.

Things started innocently enough. Legend himself tweeted out a couple disparaging messages aimed at Trump on Friday evening, calling Trump a liar and denouncing recent fake crises the administration promoted:

Our president is too preoccupied with the crises in Bowling Green and Sweden. He can't speak out against hate crimes by white supremacists. https://t.co/QUC7MJ4QUN — John Legend ( @johnlegend ) February 25, 2017

Quick fact check on the Liar-In-Chief: These particular news outlets are doing extremely well right now. https://t.co/uZW2TFyCw5 — John Legend ( @johnlegend ) February 25, 2017

Legend then became aware of an unauthorized user gaining control of his account, and sent out a warning to his nearly nine million followers:

Someone just hacked my account. — John Legend ( @johnlegend ) February 25, 2017

What transpired after that was a series of off-color tweets, ranging from sexual desire for Hillary Clinton to drug use and violence against Trump. Legend was eventually able to get control of the matter and delete them, but the NSFW screenshots live forever:

The big mistake made by the hacker (aside from the obvious) was revealing his username while clowning on Legend's account. That's a one-way ticket to getting banned, and Twitter suspended user @Owen755 following the hack. Legend, however, seemed to think the whole thing was comical.

My twitter has been hacked. Will handle asap. My hacker is vulgar but kinda hilarious A post shared by John Legend (@johnlegend) on Feb 24, 2017 at 7:47pm PST

Not everyone was so sympathetic or appeared to believe in the hack. Even Legend's wife expressed doubt at first!

Once the dust settled, the real Legend (or is it?!) chimed in to tell his followers he might not like the president, but that he'd never go as far as to threaten him:

I'm back. My hacker was vulgar and kinda hilarious. I'll try to be funnier from now on so he won't feel the need to ghost write for me. — John Legend ( @johnlegend ) February 25, 2017

I would never threaten violence to the President. No matter how much I wish he would go away. — John Legend ( @johnlegend ) February 25, 2017

I wouldn't call him a Cheeto because I enjoy Cheetos. — John Legend ( @johnlegend ) February 25, 2017

I did call him Liar-In-Chief. Then my hacker took over to do the Angrier John version of it all. — John Legend ( @johnlegend ) February 25, 2017

We expect Legend will take a few extra security measures to keep his account in the right hands moving forward.