With New Pieces, Toronto Raptors Show Why They're East's Biggest Threat to Cavs
With New Pieces, Toronto Raptors Show Why They're East's Biggest Threat to Cavs
The Toronto Raptors have been greeted by a slew of surprises—some good, one bad—over the last 11 days as All-Star Weekend has come and gone. The good: Team president Masai Ujiri and general manager Jeff Weltman cashed in some trade chips to fill the void at power forward with Serge Ibaka , then bulked up the wing rotation with P.J. Tucker. The bad: The Raptors would have to test out their new arrangement against the Boston Celtics the Eastern Conference's current No. 2 seed without Kyle Lowry . The All-Star guard came back from New Orleans with a sore right wrist that neither he nor the team knew about because he didn't think it was a serious injury. Ibaka debuted with 15 points, seven rebounds, one emphatic block on C's All-Star Isaiah Thomas early and another on Marcus Smart that looked clean but was called a foul. Serge Ibaka Blocks Marcus Smart Isaiah Thomas and DeMarre Carroll Scuffle Can Pelicans Big Duo of Boogie and 'The Brow' Thrive Together in New Orleans? Bucher Buzz: If Bulls Trade Butler This Summer, Wade Could Opt-out The Night in the NBA: Boogie Debuts, Dubs Go Off and LeBron Dominates Knicks Howard Beck's Winners and Losers of the NBA Trade Deadline Playing in a Small Basketball Market Is Brutal.  Unless... Breaking Down Anthony Davis' Record-Setting NBA All Star Game MVP Performance From Russell Westbrook to Beyonce, the Best Fashion of NBA All-Star Weekend Ronaldinho Was Spreading the Barcelona Word at the NBA All-Star Weekend Russell Westbrook's MVP Campaign Fueled by the Fast Break NBA All-Star Uniforms Since 1st Game in 1951 Glenn Robinson III Dunk Contest Rd.3 Robinson III Dunk Contest Rd. 1 Derrick Jones Jr 1st Round Dunk Sager Strong Shootout Ernie Johnson Sager Tribute Speech Eric Gordon Wins 3 Point Contest Kyle Lowry Airballs First Shot at the 3-point Contest B/R Looks Back at the NBA Dunk Contest’s Greatest Moments with #DunkDominators Celebrity All Star Game Does the Mannequin Challenge NBA All-Star Weekend Is Here and So Is the New Wave Bucher Buzz: Magic Turned Down Deal for DeMarcus Cousins B/R Presents Hip-Hop Music Video Starring LeBron James and Other All-Stars Breaking Down Carmelo Anthony's Decade of NBA All-Star Game Dominance Can Starter-Snubbed Russell Westbrook Threepeat as NBA All-Star Game MVP? This 5'5" Pro Dunker Thinks He Could Win the NBA Dunk Contest History of Vinsanity Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Ultimate NBA All-Star Game GOAT LeBron James Is About to Take Over New Orleans Why the NBA’s Greatest Dunkers Are Passing on the Slam Dunk Crown From Gucci Mane to LeBron: How the Kiss Cam Is NBA’s Cupid Was Aaron Gordon vs. Zach LaVine the Greatest Dunk Contest Ever? Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant Jaw with Each Other in KD's Return to OKC Russell Westbrook Pushes Kevin Durant Kevin Durant OKC Debut Welcomed with Boos Giannis Antetokounmpo Makes a Space Jam Dunk On This Day in the NBA: Allen Iverson Dropped 60 on the Magic in Philadelphia The Underhand Free Throw Could Be Making a Comeback in the NBA Kerr Ejected Devin Booker Scores the Winning Shot Against the Sacramento Kings Yogi Ferrell Hits Game-Winning 3 Versus Trailblazers The Potential Top-2 NBA Draft Picks Are About to Finally Settle It on the Court Dunk Contest Legend Nate Robinson Wants One Last Chance to Ball in the NBA Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Carmelo and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Biggest NBA All-Star Snubs CJ McCollum Making Moves DeAndre Liggins Takes Too Many Steps, LeBron James Mocks Him Steph Curry Hits a Half-Court Shot Before Halftime Joel Embiid Blocks James Harden and Finishes the Other Way Kemba Walker Sick Crossover on Derrick Rose The NBA's Biggest Social Media Stars Take the Court at Halftime Howard Beck's Rant on the All-Star Voting Process This Night in the NBA Alternative NBA Facts with Howard Beck Howard Beck Predicts His Western Conference All-Star Reserves Team Howard Beck Predicts His  Eastern Conference All-Star Reserves Team 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Philadelphia 76ers Are on a Roll with #RaiseTheCat Victory Celebration Joakim Noah Makes an Embarrassing Free-Throw Attempt Versus Pacers Dion Waiters Drills the Three to Win the Game Against the Warriors Giannis Antetokounmpo Drains the Three Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz LeBron James Nails a Clutch 3-Pointer to Tie the Game vs. Spurs Eleven Years Ago Today, Kobe Bryant Dropped 81 Points on the Raptors Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Top 5 Question Marks at the Halfway Point Howard Beck and Ric Bucher's 1st-Half Disappointments KD Has His Best Game of the Season vs. Thunder Was the NBA Right or Wrong to Reduce Fan Influence on All-Star Starters? Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Isaiah Thomas Clutch Bucket Against the Hawks Allen Iverson Will Reportedly Coach Former NBA Stars in 3-on-3 Tournament Mr. December: See John Wall Once Again End the Year as NBA's Player of the Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Top 5 Trade Targets in the NBA Jordan Clarkson Fouls Goran Dragic & James Johnson Isn't Having It Top 3 Landing Spots If the Chicago Bulls Move All-Star Jimmy Butler Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns James Harden vs. Russell Westbrook: Who's the Real MVP? Ric Bucher's NBA Power Rankings: New Year Sees a New Team at #1 Bucher Buzz: the Reason the Hawks Are Likely to Trade Paul Millsap and Others Bucher Buzz: League Sources Say Bulls Have Begun Shopping Jimmy Butler Who Will Grab the 8th Seed in the Western Conference? Howard Beck Predicts the NBA All-Star Teams in Each Conference Is Rondo's Relationship with the Bulls Beyond Repair? What's Wrong with the New York Knicks? Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Who Has the Most to Prove in 2017? Tucker nearly finished with a double-double (9 PTS, 10 REB, 3 STL) thanks in part to the fleet of free throws he sank once Boston was forced to foul down the stretch. Beyond filling specific positional roles, Toronto's freshest faces were brought in to bolster a defense that was firmly middle of the pack prior to the break, dragged down by a bottom-10 mark in defensive rebounding . If they also helped Toronto climb the ranks in paint points , it would gladly take that too. To those ends, their impact was immediate. Ibaka and Tucker helped hold down a 41-36 edge on the boards and build up a 52-34 scoring advantage inside. But the bulk of the work, as always, came courtesy of the backcourt, even with Lowry out of commission. DeMar DeRozan scored enough for the both of them: a career-high 43 points, 28 of which came after the Raptors had dipped into their deepest deficit. That performance pulled DeRozan even in the team record books for the most 40-point games in a campaign. DeRozan's 4th 40-pt game this season is tied for most in a season in franchise history (Chris Bosh 2007-08; Vince Carter 2000-01, 2001-02). https://t.co/diRnkwEhih Lowry's absence also paved the way for Cory Joseph (11 points, six assists) to pester Thomas into a 6-of-17 shooting night, including an ice-cold 1-of-6 during the fourth quarter for one of the league's foremost crunch-time killers. DeMarre Carroll (six points, four rebounds) aided that effort as well, if only with a forearm shiver to Thomas in the second quarter. DeMarre Carroll fouled Isaiah Thomas hard and IT didn’t like it

(Via @clippittv)
https://t.co/nKR0Zlrmla Jae Crowder, Jaylen Brown and Marcus Smart—the three players mentioned most often in Boston's pre-deadline trade rumors—combined for 51 points in support of Thomas. Al Horford , the C's marquee signing from last summer, settled for eight points and five boards through 30 minutes. One game can't constitute a reliable sample, but the Celtics looked like they could've used another superstar down the stretch. A plethora pre-trade deadline reports had Boston GM Danny Ainge doing more than kicking the tires on Chicago 's Jimmy Butler and Indiana 's Paul George before opting once again to sit on his treasure trove of trade chips. Ainge's prudence may well pay off later on. Adding another creative force mid-stream could've caused some friction with the ball-dominant Thomas. Crowder, Smart and Brown are all key pieces of head coach Brad Stevens' rotation—playing on attractive contracts, no less. The 2017 pick Boston is owed from the Brooklyn Nets could wind up No. 1 in what's expected to be a loaded draft; That could fetch the Celtics either another young stud or the gem of an offseason blockbuster. In the meantime, the Celtics still look at least a player or two short of crashing the Cleveland Cavaliers ' penthouse party in the East. While it may make more sense for them to put together a contender that can sustain past LeBron James' prime, there's something to be said for pushing into the pot now, with Kevin Love working his way back from knee surgery and the Cavs attempting to limp their way to a third straight Finals. And considering how nervous Cleveland reportedly was while monitoring Boston's activity, perhaps the C's should've pounced while they had the chance. As ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst revealed on the podcast (h/t RealGM ): Al Horford The Raptors might still be shy of title contention once Lowry's wrist heals. But by dealing two players (Terrence Ross and Jared Sullinger) and three picks (a first-rounder and two second-rounders) for Ibaka and Tucker, Toronto is clearly taking its shot. And why wouldn't it? Prior to the shakeup, these Raptors were no better than the squad that took two games from the Cavaliers in last year's Eastern Conference Finals. Upgrading from flotsam at power forward to a bona fide two-way contributor in Ibaka should up Toronto's odds, however incrementally, of toppling a Cleveland team that could be short-handed at that spot. Pushing for short-term fixes might also help the Raptors keep the good times rolling for years to come. Lowry seems likely to decline his player option for 2017-18 and re-enter the free-agent market in search of a fat new contract. By going for gold now, Toronto showed Lowry that, when it comes to winning, it means business just as much as he does. That much should become clear over the final 24 games of the Raptors' regular-season schedule and into the playoffs. While Boston can rest easy on its mountain of building blocks and unparalleled history of success, Toronto has no championship banners to admire and no young blue-chippers waiting in the wings. Thus, there's no time like the present for We The North to see if it can spring a surprise of its own.  Hollywood Hoops  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Vaughn Ridley/Getty Images

Josh Martin NBA Lead Writer

The Toronto Raptors have been greeted by a slew of surprises—some good, one bad—over the last 11 days as All-Star Weekend has come and gone.

The good: Team president Masai Ujiri and general manager Jeff Weltman cashed in some trade chips to fill the void at power forward with Serge Ibaka, then bulked up the wing rotation with P.J. Tucker.

The bad: The Raptors would have to test out their new arrangement against the Boston Celtics—the Eastern Conference's current No. 2 seed—without Kyle Lowry. The All-Star guard came back from New Orleans with a sore right wrist that neither he nor the team knew about because he didn't think it was a serious injury.

"I left everybody out of the loop because I didn't think it was anything," Lowry said, per TSN's Josh Lewenberg. "When I got back it was a more tender than I thought it would be."

The Raptors, though, weren't any softer without him at the Air Canada Centre—not in the end, anyway. They bounded out of a 17-point hole f or the second consecutive game time and won, this time by a score of 107-97 at the Celtics' expense.

The new guys did their part to pull the Raptors back from the ledge: Ibaka debuted with 15 points, seven rebounds, one emphatic block on C's All-Star Isaiah Thomas early and another on Marcus Smart that looked clean but was called a foul.

Serge Ibaka Blocks Marcus Smart Isaiah Thomas and DeMarre Carroll Scuffle Can Pelicans Big Duo of Boogie and 'The Brow' Thrive Together in New Orleans? Bucher Buzz: If Bulls Trade Butler This Summer, Wade Could Opt-out The Night in the NBA: Boogie Debuts, Dubs Go Off and LeBron Dominates Knicks Howard Beck's Winners and Losers of the NBA Trade Deadline Playing in a Small Basketball Market Is Brutal. Unless... Breaking Down Anthony Davis' Record-Setting NBA All Star Game MVP Performance From Russell Westbrook to Beyonce, the Best Fashion of NBA All-Star Weekend Ronaldinho Was Spreading the Barcelona Word at the NBA All-Star Weekend Russell Westbrook's MVP Campaign Fueled by the Fast Break NBA All-Star Uniforms Since 1st Game in 1951 Glenn Robinson III Dunk Contest Rd.3 Robinson III Dunk Contest Rd. 1 Derrick Jones Jr 1st Round Dunk Sager Strong Shootout Ernie Johnson Sager Tribute Speech Eric Gordon Wins 3 Point Contest Kyle Lowry Airballs First Shot at the 3-point Contest B/R Looks Back at the NBA Dunk Contest’s Greatest Moments with #DunkDominators Celebrity All Star Game Does the Mannequin Challenge NBA All-Star Weekend Is Here and So Is the New Wave Bucher Buzz: Magic Turned Down Deal for DeMarcus Cousins B/R Presents Hip-Hop Music Video Starring LeBron James and Other All-Stars Breaking Down Carmelo Anthony's Decade of NBA All-Star Game Dominance Can Starter-Snubbed Russell Westbrook Threepeat as NBA All-Star Game MVP? This 5'5" Pro Dunker Thinks He Could Win the NBA Dunk Contest History of Vinsanity Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Ultimate NBA All-Star Game GOAT LeBron James Is About to Take Over New Orleans Why the NBA’s Greatest Dunkers Are Passing on the Slam Dunk Crown From Gucci Mane to LeBron: How the Kiss Cam Is NBA’s Cupid Was Aaron Gordon vs. Zach LaVine the Greatest Dunk Contest Ever? Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant Jaw with Each Other in KD's Return to OKC Russell Westbrook Pushes Kevin Durant Kevin Durant OKC Debut Welcomed with Boos Giannis Antetokounmpo Makes a Space Jam Dunk On This Day in the NBA: Allen Iverson Dropped 60 on the Magic in Philadelphia The Underhand Free Throw Could Be Making a Comeback in the NBA Kerr Ejected Devin Booker Scores the Winning Shot Against the Sacramento Kings Yogi Ferrell Hits Game-Winning 3 Versus Trailblazers The Potential Top-2 NBA Draft Picks Are About to Finally Settle It on the Court Dunk Contest Legend Nate Robinson Wants One Last Chance to Ball in the NBA Could a Player with Zero Career NBA Dunks Win the All-Star Dunk Contest? Carmelo and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Biggest NBA All-Star Snubs CJ McCollum Making Moves DeAndre Liggins Takes Too Many Steps, LeBron James Mocks Him Steph Curry Hits a Half-Court Shot Before Halftime Joel Embiid Blocks James Harden and Finishes the Other Way Kemba Walker Sick Crossover on Derrick Rose The NBA's Biggest Social Media Stars Take the Court at Halftime Howard Beck's Rant on the All-Star Voting Process This Night in the NBA Alternative NBA Facts with Howard Beck Howard Beck Predicts His Western Conference All-Star Reserves Team Howard Beck Predicts His Eastern Conference All-Star Reserves Team 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Philadelphia 76ers Are on a Roll with #RaiseTheCat Victory Celebration Joakim Noah Makes an Embarrassing Free-Throw Attempt Versus Pacers Dion Waiters Drills the Three to Win the Game Against the Warriors Giannis Antetokounmpo Drains the Three Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz LeBron James Nails a Clutch 3-Pointer to Tie the Game vs. Spurs Eleven Years Ago Today, Kobe Bryant Dropped 81 Points on the Raptors Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Top 5 Question Marks at the Halfway Point Howard Beck and Ric Bucher's 1st-Half Disappointments KD Has His Best Game of the Season vs. Thunder Was the NBA Right or Wrong to Reduce Fan Influence on All-Star Starters? Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Isaiah Thomas Clutch Bucket Against the Hawks Allen Iverson Will Reportedly Coach Former NBA Stars in 3-on-3 Tournament Mr. December: See John Wall Once Again End the Year as NBA's Player of the Month Greg Anthony's Starting 5: the Top 5 Trade Targets in the NBA Jordan Clarkson Fouls Goran Dragic & James Johnson Isn't Having It Top 3 Landing Spots If the Chicago Bulls Move All-Star Jimmy Butler Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns James Harden vs. Russell Westbrook: Who's the Real MVP? Ric Bucher's NBA Power Rankings: New Year Sees a New Team at #1 Bucher Buzz: the Reason the Hawks Are Likely to Trade Paul Millsap and Others Bucher Buzz: League Sources Say Bulls Have Begun Shopping Jimmy Butler Who Will Grab the 8th Seed in the Western Conference? Howard Beck Predicts the NBA All-Star Teams in Each Conference Is Rondo's Relationship with the Bulls Beyond Repair? What's Wrong with the New York Knicks? Greg Anthony's Starting 5: Who Has the Most to Prove in 2017?

Tucker nearly finished with a double-double (9 PTS, 10 REB, 3 STL) thanks in part to the fleet of free throws he sank once Boston was forced to foul down the stretch.

"P.J. Tucker got them going," Thomas said, who played with Tucker in Phoenix, per Comcast SportsNet's A. Sherrod Blakely. "That's what he does. He's the definition of a tough guy."

Beyond filling specific positional roles, Toronto's freshest faces were brought in to bolster a defense that was firmly middle of the pack prior to the break, dragged down by a bottom-10 mark in defensive rebounding. If they also helped Toronto climb the ranks in paint points, it would gladly take that too.

To those ends, their impact was immediate. Ibaka and Tucker helped hold down a 41-36 edge on the boards and build up a 52-34 scoring advantage inside.

But the bulk of the work, as always, came courtesy of the backcourt, even with Lowry out of commission. DeMar DeRozan scored enough for the both of them: a career-high 43 points, 28 of which came after the Raptors had dipped into their deepest deficit. That performance pulled DeRozan even in the team record books for the most 40-point games in a campaign.

Lowry's absence also paved the way for Cory Joseph (11 points, six assists) to pester Thomas into a 6-of-17 shooting night, including an ice-cold 1-of-6 during the fourth quarter for one of the league's foremost crunch-time killers. DeMarre Carroll (six points, four rebounds) aided that effort as well, if only with a forearm shiver to Thomas in the second quarter.

"We can't let people think that we're soft ... Sometimes, we've got to take a stand," Carroll said, per the Toronto Sun's Ryan Wolstat. "We can't just let teams roll over on us."

Jae Crowder, Jaylen Brown and Marcus Smart—the three players mentioned most often in Boston's pre-deadline trade rumors—combined for 51 points in support of Thomas. Al Horford, the C's marquee signing from last summer, settled for eight points and five boards through 30 minutes.

One game can't constitute a reliable sample, but the Celtics looked like they could've used another superstar down the stretch. A plethora pre-trade deadline reports had Boston GM Danny Ainge doing more than kicking the tires on Chicago's Jimmy Butler and Indiana's Paul George before opting once again to sit on his treasure trove of trade chips.

Ainge's prudence may well pay off later on. Adding another creative force mid-stream could've caused some friction with the ball-dominant Thomas.

Crowder, Smart and Brown are all key pieces of head coach Brad Stevens' rotation—playing on attractive contracts, no less. The 2017 pick Boston is owed from the Brooklyn Nets could wind up No. 1 in what's expected to be a loaded draft; That could fetch the Celtics either another young stud or the gem of an offseason blockbuster.

In the meantime, the Celtics still look at least a player or two short of crashing the Cleveland Cavaliers' penthouse party in the East. While it may make more sense for them to put together a contender that can sustain past LeBron James' prime, there's something to be said for pushing into the pot now, with Kevin Love working his way back from knee surgery and the Cavs attempting to limp their way to a third straight Finals.

And considering how nervous Cleveland reportedly was while monitoring Boston's activity, perhaps the C's should've pounced while they had the chance. As ESPN.com's Brian Windhorst revealed on the Lowe Post podcast (h/t RealGM):

The Cavs were on pins and needles yesterday about the Celtics getting Paul George or Jimmy Butler. Pins and needles. That's why I'm saying. ... Let's put it this way: If on day one next year it's Gordon Hayward, Al Horford and Isaiah Thomas, the Cavs will be like, 'OK, that's going to be a challenge.' If it's Isaiah Thomas, Al Horford and Jimmy Butler, the Cavs might be out there saying, 'We may have to trade Kevin Love.'

Vaughn Ridley/Getty Images

The Raptors might still be shy of title contention once Lowry's wrist heals. But by dealing two players (Terrence Ross and Jared Sullinger) and three picks (a first-rounder and two second-rounders) for Ibaka and Tucker, Toronto is clearly taking its shot.

And why wouldn't it? Prior to the shakeup, these Raptors were no better than the squad that took two games from the Cavaliers in last year's Eastern Conference Finals. Upgrading from flotsam at power forward to a bona fide two-way contributor in Ibaka should up Toronto's odds, however incrementally, of toppling a Cleveland team that could be short-handed at that spot.

Pushing for short-term fixes might also help the Raptors keep the good times rolling for years to come. Lowry seems likely to decline his player option for 2017-18 and re-enter the free-agent market in search of a fat new contract. By going for gold now, Toronto showed Lowry that, when it comes to winning, it means business just as much as he does.

That much should become clear over the final 24 games of the Raptors' regular-season schedule and into the playoffs. While Boston can rest easy on its mountain of building blocks and unparalleled history of success, Toronto has no championship banners to admire and no young blue-chippers waiting in the wings.

Thus, there's no time like the present for We The North to see if it can spring a surprise of its own.

All stats and salary information via NBA.com and Basketball-Reference.com unless otherwise noted.

Josh Martin covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, and listen to his Hollywood Hoops podcast with B/R Lakers lead writer Eric Pincus.