2017 NBA Power Rankings: Post-Trade Deadline Standings for All 30 Teams
2017 NBA Power Rankings: Post-Trade Deadline Standings for All 30 Teams
2017 NBA Power Rankings: Post-Trade Deadline Standings for All 30 Teams This week's NBA power rankings are going to be a little different. Instead of the usual week's worth of games to judge, we've got one night of competition and a whole mess of trades. That means we need to embrace speculation because we can't know for sure how all the additions and subtractions will affect the league hierarchy until we see them in practice. That's kind of exciting, though, right? And isn't that why everyone goes nuts for the trade deadline anyway? Because you get to employ some imagination? Because you can marvel at the idea of Anthony Davis and DeMarcus Cousins playing together (and then actually see it for the first time on Thursday)? In addition to transactions shaking things up, we'll have to gauge what certain teams' signals about their plans for the rest of the year. If a club on the fringes of playoff contention stood pat, do we interpret that as concession or confidence? We won't get into the buyout options until next week, but we'll reference relevant rumors on that front where necessary. As always, the goal here is organizing all 30 teams into an order that reflects their current strength. A lot has changed this week, so let's get to it. 30. Brookyn Nets ←→ You've got to hand it to the Brooklyn Nets for making the best of a bad situation by replenishing their draft assets a piece at a time. By sending Bojan Bogdanovic to the Washington Wizards and taking back Andrew Nicholson's contract, Brooklyn added what should be a late first-rounder in the 2017 draft. The Nets also still have the Boston Celtics' first-rounder (and lose their own) via a swap . It's not out of the realm of possibility that Brooklyn could package those selections and move up in what many see as a deep draft. The Nets are still asset-poor, and none of this helps them climb out of the No. 30 spot. But, Jeremy Lin being cleared for a return to practice might, and the team immediately ahead of them could commit to tanking under a new regime. Plus, more generally, we have to seize on the rare opportunities to praise this team whenever they arise. 29. Los Angeles Lakers Neither will the next few. When he came aboard as an advisor at the beginning of February, Johnson told (h/t the ): " 28. New York Knicks 27. Orlando Magic 26. Sacramento Kings It's possible that freed-up, egalitarian style (sometimes referred to as "team play") will become the norm now that Cousins is gone. Not necessarily probable—but possible. If the Kings' selection falls in the top 10, the Philadelphia 76ers own swap rights. This group, as always, is going to keep gunning for that eighth spot. 25. Phoenix Suns 24. Philadelphia 76ers But with Nerlens Noel gone (more on that shortly), it's reality. 23. Charlotte Hornets 22. Portland Trail Blazers 21. Minnesota Timberwolves 20. Dallas Mavericks The Deron Williams waiver, reported first by Stein and Tim McMahon of ESPN, makes that tack only more obvious. 19. Milwaukee Bucks 18. Chicago Bulls it's difficult to see how the Bulls got better in the short term with that trio of players replacing Taj Gibson and Doug McDermott (plus a 2018 second-round pick), which is what it took to add Payne, per Shams Charania of The Vertical . According to Micah Adams of ESPN Stats & Info, the Bulls now have three of the league's bottom-five PER producers (among those logging at least 300 minutes). Payne joins Paul Zipser and Denzel Valentine in that ignominious group. Maybe Morrow helps space the floor as well as McDermott did, and maybe Lauvergne adds a new offensive dimension, but you're really stretching if you see meaningful improvement here. 17. Detroit Pistons 16. New Orleans Pelicans 15. Indiana Pacers But it took him repeating that same sentiment with the catchier descriptor " hell-bent " for the anxious, trade-hungry masses to get excited. The Pacers didn't find George any title-contending help, which might mean Indy fans should drink in this relatively successful era while they can. If supporting talent isn't incoming via the draft or free agency, the Pacers will almost certainly have to trade George over the summer or early next year. The alternative is losing him for nothing, and leverage is dwindling by the day. More immediately, Indiana sits at sixth in the East and hit the break on a six-game slide. Combined with the potential for George to sour on a situation he already seems committed to ditching, it's tough to be optimistic about the Pacers right now. 14. Denver Nuggets "No. I'm really tired. My body is tired. I'm trying to get as much rest as I can. Use all of the trainers to help me. But nobody is going to feel bad for me. I'm going to go out there and play." Jokic has been fantastic, but if he starts dragging at all, the Nuggets are in trouble. 13. Miami Heat 12. Atlanta Hawks Until we get the truth, all we can do is note how he should help his new team, the Atlanta Hawks. 11. Memphis Grizzlies 10. Oklahoma City Thunder Good move, then. The Thunder got better, but their failure to improve their ranking illustrates the gap between them and the next tier of teams. There's just no place to put them. 9. Toronto Raptors 8. Utah Jazz 7. Los Angeles Clippers 6. Boston Celtics Especially with the new CBA making it easier to keep those kinds of draftees. 5. Houston Rockets 4. Washington Wizards Per Kevin Pelton of ESPN.com: "Despite being a pretty efficient scorer as well (his .572 true shooting percentage is solidly better than league average), Bogdanovic still rates worse than replacement level by both ESPN's real plus-minus and Basketball-Reference.com's box plus-minus metrics because of his lack of measurable defensive contributions. Bogdanovic averages just 0.6 steals per 36 minutes and has blocked three shots all season." Not especially encouraging. But for a Wizards team whose bench is getting outscored by 5.8 points per 100 possessions the third-worst differential in the league he can't hurt. 3. Cleveland Cavaliers 2. San Antonio Spurs 1. Golden State Warriors  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

1 of 31

Layne Murdoch Jr./Getty Images

This week's NBA power rankings are going to be a little different.

Instead of the usual week's worth of games to judge, we've got one night of competition and a whole mess of trades. That means we need to embrace speculation because we can't know for sure how all the additions and subtractions will affect the league hierarchy until we see them in practice.

That's kind of exciting, though, right? And isn't that why everyone goes nuts for the trade deadline anyway? Because you get to employ some imagination? Because you can marvel at the idea of Anthony Davis and DeMarcus Cousins playing together (and then actually see it for the first time on Thursday)?

In addition to transactions shaking things up, we'll have to gauge what certain teams' inaction signals about their plans for the rest of the year. If a club on the fringes of playoff contention stood pat, do we interpret that as concession or confidence?

We won't get into the buyout options until next week, but we'll reference relevant rumors on that front where necessary.

As always, the goal here is organizing all 30 teams into an order that reflects their current strength.

A lot has changed this week, so let's get to it.