CPAC sells young conservatives with 'hip and cool' swag
CPAC sells young conservatives with 'hip and cool' swag
CPAC sells young conservatives with 'hip and cool' swag Updated 2338 GMT (0738 HKT) February 24, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights CPAC activists make their pitch to young attendees The merchandise invites conservatives and trolls liberals It was early Friday afternoon on the ground floor of the Conservative Political Action Conference here, just hours after President Donald Trump had stoked the faithful, and the "art therapy lounge" was quietly abuzz.  Red Alert politics has an art therapy lounge. It's to tease liberals, but they say it's been really popular here. A post shared by gregjkrieg (@gregjkrieg) on  Inside the "Snowflake coloring book" -- Bannon, Trump and Priebus(?) A post shared by gregjkrieg (@gregjkrieg) on  Trump says a lot of Bernie Sanders supporters voted for him. These folks seem less interested in currying their favor... A post shared by gregjkrieg (@gregjkrieg) on  Ken Bone with his people.. in the "Bone Zone." (Their term, folks.) A post shared by gregjkrieg (@gregjkrieg) on  A onesie from "Save the Storks." They park vans outside abortion clinics, like rolling crisis pregnancy centers. A post shared by gregjkrieg (@gregjkrieg) on  The Regnery folks wanted to be clear: Freddie the Frogcaster predates the rise of Pepe. A post shared by gregjkrieg (@gregjkrieg) on

Story highlights CPAC activists make their pitch to young attendees

The merchandise invites conservatives and trolls liberals

National Harbor, Maryland (CNN) It was early Friday afternoon on the ground floor of the Conservative Political Action Conference here, just hours after President Donald Trump had stoked the faithful, and the "art therapy lounge" was quietly abuzz.

Two young women plonked themselves down on a pair of beanbag chairs, grabbed "snowflake coloring books" and began to unpack boxes of colored pencils.

"It's kind of a parody of snowflakes, quote-unquote, on college campuses who get easily offended about things that they don't agree with and tend to need safe spaces in order to de-stress over those triggered feelings," explained Pardes Seleh, the contributors editor for Red Alert, a conservative political website for millennials. "So we made a mock safe space over here."

Red Alert politics has an art therapy lounge. It's to tease liberals, but they say it's been really popular here. A post shared by gregjkrieg (@gregjkrieg) on Feb 24, 2017 at 10:28am PST

Turns out, it was a bigger draw than she'd expected. The target audience was sold, snatching up the books and pencils for future rounds of therapeutic scribbling.

Seleh leafed through the book, coming to a cartoonist's rendering of Trump and top aides Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus in a small boat crossing the Potomac River.

Read More