Seann Walsh: ‘I wrote a line for The Thick Of It – it's probably my proudest moment’

The Thick Of It . “Wake up and smell the cock,” is one of the best lines ever written; they managed to make the sound of the letter “K” a left turn punchline. That blew my mind. I inadvertently wrote a line for it once. Will Smith is asked: “What do you ask for at the hairdressers, Disney Prince?” I had told Will he had Disney Prince hair at Banana Cabaret. He kindly credited me on Twitter. That’s probably what I’m most proud of in my career. I went alone to see Dylan Moran record his Off The Hook DVD. I have an extremely loud and irritating laugh that sounds much like Ricky Gervais’s. Surrounding audience members started to laugh at how much I was laughing then quickly became irritated. I almost left at the interval because I was ruining everyone’s evening. When I was at college, David Beckham was photographed in the Sun wearing an Alice band for the first time. So the next day I went into college wearing an Alice band. David Beckham had long hair. I had a French crop. Back when I was stoned teenager, myself and Crazy Dave used to make cheese on top of chips on top of curry on top of toast with a pint of milk. Every day. 4 or 22. I, Partridge . I recommend reading the Partridge books first before you listen to the audiobook as you then get the reward of the writing followed by the surprise of how Coogan has decided to read it. I was dying on my arse supporting Stephen K Amos in York. A woman strangely decided to bring her baby to the show. I asked: “Why have you brought a baby to a comedy show?” A man shouted: “Maybe she was having trouble getting it to sleep so she brought it out to see you.” Bang. I will always have a soft spot for “sausage”.  Comedy   The funniest thing   Comedy
(Culture)   Seann Walsh   features

The funniest TV show I’ve ever seen

The Thick Of It. “Wake up and smell the cock,” is one of the best lines ever written; they managed to make the sound of the letter “K” a left turn punchline. That blew my mind. I inadvertently wrote a line for it once. Will Smith is asked: “What do you ask for at the hairdressers, Disney Prince?” I had told Will he had Disney Prince hair at Banana Cabaret. He kindly credited me on Twitter. That’s probably what I’m most proud of in my career.

The funniest standup I’ve ever seen

I went alone to see Dylan Moran record his Off The Hook DVD. I have an extremely loud and irritating laugh that sounds much like Ricky Gervais’s. Surrounding audience members started to laugh at how much I was laughing then quickly became irritated. I almost left at the interval because I was ruining everyone’s evening.

The funniest hairstyle I’ve ever had

When I was at college, David Beckham was photographed in the Sun wearing an Alice band for the first time. So the next day I went into college wearing an Alice band. David Beckham had long hair. I had a French crop.

The funniest meal I’ve ever eaten

Back when I was stoned teenager, myself and Crazy Dave used to make cheese on top of chips on top of curry on top of toast with a pint of milk. Every day.

The funniest number

4 or 22.

The funniest book I’ve ever read

I, Partridge. I recommend reading the Partridge books first before you listen to the audiobook as you then get the reward of the writing followed by the surprise of how Coogan has decided to read it.

The funniest heckle I’ve ever had

I was dying on my arse supporting Stephen K Amos in York. A woman strangely decided to bring her baby to the show. I asked: “Why have you brought a baby to a comedy show?” A man shouted: “Maybe she was having trouble getting it to sleep so she brought it out to see you.” Bang.

The funniest word

I will always have a soft spot for “sausage”.

Seann Walsh: One For The Road is touring to 11 April