Oscars 2017: Hollywood talent agency cancels party, hosts pro-refugee rally instead
Oscars 2017: Hollywood talent agency cancels party, hosts pro-refugee rally instead
A Hollywood talent agency scrapped its annual Oscars party in favour of a pro-immigration rally which took place yesterday (24 February) in Los Angeles. The agency's decision was made earlier this month following the news that Donald Trump's (now halted) travel ban meant that its client Asghar Farhadi, the director of Oscar-nominated film , would not be able to attend this Sunday's ceremony to support his film. Named 'United Voices,' the rally's purpose was to counter the anti-refugee sentiment Trump's ruling has heightened. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and abortion   Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March   Getty     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images  Speakers at the event - which saw 1,200 protestors attend - included Jodie Foster, Michael J. Fox and Farhadi himself. Farhadi, who was “honoured and in tears" over the agency's decision, spoke at the rally via video link from Tehran. He said: “It is comforting to know that at a time when some politicians are trying to promote hate by creating divisions between cultures, religions and nationalities, the cinema community has joined the people in a common show of unity to announce its opposition.   Jodie Foster warns of an 'attack on democracy' in anti-Trump speech “I hope this unity will continue and spread to fight other injustices.” star Foster gave a particularly impassioned speech. Addressing the crowd, she said: “I'm not somebody who feels very comfortable using my public face for activism,” she said. “This year is a very different year and it's time to show up. It's the singular time in history. It's time to engage. Michael J. Fox branded Trump's anti-Muslim policies "an assault on human dignity." UTA's other clients - including Mark Ruffalo, Paul Bettany and Supernatural actor Misha Collins - expressed happiness over their agency's decision to host the rally and to donate $250,000 to ACLU. Love my agency! UTA Scraps Oscar Party in Favor of Refugee Rally @THR  https://t.co/xgWIA6qX1z Fuck yeah! My agency too! https://t.co/pHnVhBn2cD This year's Academy Awards, presented by Jimmy Kimmel, takes place on 26 February. More about: Oscars 2017 Oscars Comments

A Hollywood talent agency scrapped its annual Oscars party in favour of a pro-immigration rally which took place yesterday (24 February) in Los Angeles.

The agency's decision was made earlier this month following the news that Donald Trump's (now halted) travel ban meant that its client Asghar Farhadi, the director of Oscar-nominated film The Salesman, would not be able to attend this Sunday's ceremony to support his film.

Named 'United Voices,' the rally's purpose was to counter the anti-refugee sentiment Trump's ruling has heightened.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







10 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued

















1/10 Trump and abortion Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March Getty

2/10 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

3/10 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

4/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

5/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

6/10 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

7/10 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

8/10 Trump and the media White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC Getty Images

9/10 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

10/10 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

Speakers at the event - which saw 1,200 protestors attend - included Jodie Foster, Michael J. Fox and Farhadi himself.

Farhadi, who was “honoured and in tears" over the agency's decision, spoke at the rally via video link from Tehran.

He said: “It is comforting to know that at a time when some politicians are trying to promote hate by creating divisions between cultures, religions and nationalities, the cinema community has joined the people in a common show of unity to announce its opposition.

“I hope this unity will continue and spread to fight other injustices.”

The Silence of the Lambs star Foster gave a particularly impassioned speech.

Addressing the crowd, she said: “I'm not somebody who feels very comfortable using my public face for activism,” she said. “This year is a very different year and it's time to show up. It's the singular time in history. It's time to engage.

Michael J. Fox branded Trump's anti-Muslim policies "an assault on human dignity."

Oscars 2017: Our film team discuss who will win and who should

UTA's other clients - including Mark Ruffalo, Paul Bettany and Supernatural actor Misha Collins - expressed happiness over their agency's decision to host the rally and to donate $250,000 to ACLU.

Love my agency! UTA Scraps Oscar Party in Favor of Refugee Rally @THR https://t.co/xgWIA6qX1z — Mark Ruffalo (@MarkRuffalo) February 8, 2017

Fuck yeah! My agency too! https://t.co/pHnVhBn2cD — Paul Bettany (@Paul_Bettany) February 9, 2017

This year's Academy Awards, presented by Jimmy Kimmel, takes place on 26 February.