Here Are The 10 Subtle Details That A Man Sees In A Woman Which Turn Him On
Here Are The 10 Subtle Details That A Man Sees In A Woman Which Turn Him On
10 Subtle Details About A Woman That Turn A Man On We often reduce being ‘attractive’ to a pretty face, a hot body, flawless skin or a bright appearance. Although these are important features that make up how we appear to others, there are more subtle yet distinct details about a woman that can turn a man on enough to overlook the ones mentioned above. Here are some that are sure to drive any man crazy! Nothing beats watching a woman stretching in her sleepwear after she wakes up. Yes, that means it can be sexier than even short skirts and high heels. Men find women to be defenceless, open, and vulnerable in this position. Although spending a good amount of dough on getting your hair right might be a standard procedure for you, it may not change the fact that your man still prefers your hair in a natural state. Unkempt hair turns on a man’s carnal instincts much more than perfectly groomed features. A lot of men prefer women with a natural coating of makeup or no makeup at all and find it a turn-off at times to kiss a woman with lipstick smeared all over her face. Makeup often acts as a barrier than a turn-on because of its unnatural texture. Contrary to popular assumption, a woman with a somewhat soft and rounded belly is more appealing to most men than a very slim and toned one. Just accept the words Marilyn Monroe once said, “A woman without a belly is like a house without a balcony.” And we can’t really argue with that.

We often reduce being ‘attractive’ to a pretty face, a hot body, flawless skin or a bright appearance. Although these are important features that make up how we appear to others, there are more subtle yet distinct details about a woman that can turn a man on enough to overlook the ones mentioned above.

Here are some that are sure to drive any man crazy!

Stretching after you get out of bed

examinedexistence.com

Nothing beats watching a woman stretching in her sleepwear after she wakes up. Yes, that means it can be sexier than even short skirts and high heels.

The reason: Men find women to be defenceless, open, and vulnerable in this position.

Donning messy hair

weareladies.net

Although spending a good amount of dough on getting your hair right might be a standard procedure for you, it may not change the fact that your man still prefers your hair in a natural state.

The reason: Unkempt hair turns on a man’s carnal instincts much more than perfectly groomed features.

Having no makeup on

therulesrevisited.com

A lot of men prefer women with a natural coating of makeup or no makeup at all and find it a turn-off at times to kiss a woman with lipstick smeared all over her face.

The reason: Makeup often acts as a barrier than a turn-on because of its unnatural texture.

Being slightly rounded in your midriff

newbadone80.deviantart.com

Contrary to popular assumption, a woman with a somewhat soft and rounded belly is more appealing to most men than a very slim and toned one.

The reason: Just accept the words Marilyn Monroe once said, “A woman without a belly is like a house without a balcony.” And we can’t really argue with that.

Revealing your wrinkles

diaryofawrinkle.com

Don't Miss 12.2 K SHARES 14 K SHARES 5.7 K SHARES 8.8 K SHARES 2.5 K SHARES

The truth is that wrinkles bother women more than they do men. Men find a few fine lines on the face of a woman to be quite attractive.

The reason: Wrinkles are the etchings of your experience and maturity, and that is noteworthy.

Having a healthy appetite

papasemar.com

Men find women who are not exceedingly concerned about their diet attractive. Such women are also bound to win a guy’s trust quickly.

The reason: Not being afraid to eat anything you desire in front of a man, shows that you don’t care about anyone’s opinion and are confident about yourself. Just make sure you don’t overeat on your first date. Extremes are always dangerous.

Keep them glasses on

mymakeupideas.com

Unlike your days as a teenager, where wearing a pair glasses just made you look a dork, as an adult, it has quite the opposite effect. A pair of spectacles get more noticed by men and increases your sex appeal.

The reason: A pair of glasses creates intrigue. It can either make you look cute or confident and independent.

Exposing your untanned areas of you body

simplybeach.com

Although it upsets a woman to see the untanned areas of skin on their body, it doesn’t seem to bother men at all. Instead, the get quite aroused when they notice the contrast between the tanned and the untanned area of skin on a woman’s body.

The reason: Guys find these ‘imperfections’, such as tan lines on the body, quite a turn on.

Wear maxi skirts

bondgirlglam.com

A long skirt flying around looks as sexy as any outfit out there—including its mini counterpart because maxi skirts are waiting to be unravelled unlike a mini skirt, which reveals enough already.

The reason: A piece of wardrobe piece that doesn’t reveal too much can stir a man’s imagination over and over again—especially if he’s seen your pretty legs before.

Being barefooted

lifetips.top

Most guys find a woman’s bare feet extremely sexy. And unlike the olden days, where a man would most likely not get a preview of his bride’s feet before marriage, keeping them revealed is probably a good idea.

The reason: It one of the biggest fetishes men have had over time with over 47 percent men, according to the Journal of Sexual Medicine exhibiting a sexual attraction to feet. You can blame this one on some serious hardwiring.