Thousands of children and teenagers with anorexia forced to wait months for help
Thousands of children and teenagers with anorexia forced to wait months for help
housands of children and teenagers with anorexia are being forced to wait months for help, amid a growing crisis in services to treat eating disorders. An investigation by reveals a dramatic fall in provision of hospital appointments for the condition, forcing patients to wait longer, with some in need of inpatient care travelling hundreds of miles. The NHS data shows that in just two years, there has been a 36 per cent reduction in the number of hospital appointments for eating disorders across the country. eanwhile, an audit of services for children and teenagers shows that just one in six areas are meeting standards intended to speed up treatment for the most vulnerable. Charities last night said the disclosures were “alarming” and reflected a “national scandal” in care of the most vulnerable. Some patients were effectively being told that they could not get help until they had starved themselves further, they warned. 'Sometimes it’s worse when your child is alive' Sharen Green, whose daughter Charlotte died after refusing treatment for anorexia, tells The Telegraph NHS data obtained by this newspaper, shows that in 2015/16, health services in England carried out just 14,847 outpatient appointments for patients with eating disorders – a drop from 23,266 in 2013/14. Experts said waiting lists were now reaching 16 months in some parts of the country, with young patients in need of admission being sent from Leicester to Edinburgh in search of a bed. Last night the Health Secretary pledged sweeping improvements in access to services. Jeremy Hunt said: “When children are in urgent need of support from the NHS it’s vital that they get fast, high-quality care – and clearly in some of the cases highlighted this simply has not happened. “While mental health services have for too long been a poor relation to physical health, as the Prime Minister has said, we are determined to turn this round.” he Government has promised a “revolution” in mental health treatment , with specific targets to speed up access to help for children and teenagers with eating disorders. The standards include a four-week waiting time for most referrals, dropping to one week for cases which are identified as “urgent”. But an audit of NHS services, seen by this newspaper, shows just 14 per cent of areas referring urgent cases within a week, while only 18 per cent managed to ensure remaining cases started treatment within a month. In total, one in six areas were compliant with both standards, the report from August shows. The NHS does not publish any official figures on waiting times for treatment for eating disorders, although it has promised to start publishing those for children and young people from May. The Royal College of Psychiatrists last night warned that some patients were waiting as long as 16 months for help, amid a growing NHS financial crisis. r Agnes Ayton, vice chairman of its faculty of eating disorders, said: “We are seeing waits of up to 16 months for non-urgent referrals. It is really worrying, because we know that the more quickly people start receiving treatment the quicker they are to respond to it.” The consultant psychiatrist from Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trust said strain on NHS finances was forcing patients to wait: “A lot of trusts are trying to make savings at a time when we have seen a huge increase in demand,” she said. Andrew Radford, chief executive of Beat, the UK’s charity for eating disorders, said the situation had become “a national scandal”. “These figures are evidence of fairly horrific rationing of care – whether it means longer waiting times, or fewer appointments once you are in the system,” he said. “This is threatening lives.” r Hunt said that by 2020, 95 per cent of children with suspected eating disorders would be seen within the four and one week target times, thanks to an £150 million investment in services. “These are distressing conditions, and so we want to ensure greater and more even coverage across the country to help more children to get the proper care,” he said.  onsultant psychiatrist Dr Navjot Bedi, who runs an inpatient unit for adults at the Glenfield Hospital in Leicester – the regional unit for the East Midlands – said its waiting times had doubled from four to eight weeks over the last decade. Patients treated at the children’s unit have been sent as far as Edinburgh, last year, amid a shortage of beds, she said. Psychiatrists elsewhere said beds were free only long enough to be cleaned, with a doubling in waiting times, and patients regularly sent north of the border. Dr Marc Bush, chief policy adviser at YoungMinds, the charity for young people with mental health problems, said: “Early intervention for eating disorders is crucial, so it’s alarming that there has been a sharp drop in access to outpatient services.”

Meanwhile, an audit of services for children and teenagers shows that just one in six areas are meeting standards intended to speed up treatment for the most vulnerable.

Charities last night said the disclosures were “alarming” and reflected a “national scandal” in care of the most vulnerable. Some patients were effectively being told that they could not get help until they had starved themselves further, they warned.

NHS data obtained by this newspaper, shows that in 2015/16, health services in England carried out just 14,847 outpatient appointments for patients with eating disorders – a drop from 23,266 in 2013/14.

Experts said waiting lists were now reaching 16 months in some parts of the country, with young patients in need of admission being sent from Leicester to Edinburgh in search of a bed.

Last night the Health Secretary pledged sweeping improvements in access to services.

Jeremy Hunt said: “When children are in urgent need of support from the NHS it’s vital that they get fast, high-quality care – and clearly in some of the cases highlighted this simply has not happened.

“While mental health services have for too long been a poor relation to physical health, as the Prime Minister has said, we are determined to turn this round.”