Oscar Weekend Flashback: Justin Timberlake & Ryan Gosling's Best Moments Together on 'Mickey Mouse Club'
Oscar Weekend Flashback: Justin Timberlake & Ryan Gosling's Best Moments Together on 'Mickey Mouse Club'
Oscars 2017: See the Full Winners List 2017 Oscars Red Carpet & More: See All The Photos! Watch Lin-Manuel Miranda and Auli'i Cravalho Perform 'How Far I'll Go' at the 2017 Oscars Oscars 2017: Best Social Media Moments Oscar Weekend Flashback: Justin Timberlake & Ryan Gosling's Best Moments Together on 'Mickey Mouse Club'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Justin Timberlake and Ryan Gosling could both win their first Oscars this weekend, as Gosling is up for best actor for his role in the whimsical musicalÂ Â and Timberlake received a best original song nod for his Â track-turned-No. 1 Billboard Hot 100 hitÂ "Can't Stop the Feeling!" While the Oscar noms are hardly the first indication that Timberlake and Gosling are superstars, if both guys win, it will just be another way to prove that the casting directors for Disney Channel's had quite the eye for talent. In case you don't remember, Gosling and Timberlake got their start on the variety television seriesÂ in the early '90s, showcasing their acting and singing chops with hilariously terrible wardrobes and ever-so-'90s hairstyles. Although the former teen heartthrobs have both admitted that they don't have much of a relationship nowadaysÂ (a darn shame, really), they shared some pretty golden sketches together on Â -- and with a possible Oscar reunion in store, what better time to reminisce?  Ahead of Timberlake and Gosling's appearances atÂ the Oscars, take a look at some of their best jointÂ Â moments below: Britney Spears Justin and Ryan, please do the world a favor and at least recreate this on Oscar Sunday.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Ryan Gosling and Justin Timberlake in a promo for The All New Mickey Mouse Club.

Justin Timberlake and Ryan Gosling could both win their first Oscars this weekend, as Gosling is up for best actor for his role in the whimsical musicalÂ La La LandÂ and Timberlake received a best original song nod for his TrollsÂ track-turned-No. 1 Billboard Hot 100 hitÂ "Can't Stop the Feeling!"

While the Oscar noms are hardly the first indication that Timberlake and Gosling are superstars, if both guys win, it will just be another way to prove that the casting directors for Disney Channel's The All New Mickey Mouse Club had quite the eye for talent.

In case you don't remember, Gosling and Timberlake got their start on the variety television seriesÂ in the early '90s, showcasing their acting and singing chops with hilariously terrible wardrobes and ever-so-'90s hairstyles. Although the former teen heartthrobs have both admitted that they don't have much of a relationship nowadaysÂ (a darn shame, really), they shared some pretty golden sketches together on MMCÂ -- and with a possible Oscar reunion in store, what better time to reminisce?

Ahead of Timberlake and Gosling's appearances atÂ the Oscars, take a look at some of their best jointÂ Mickey Mouse ClubÂ moments below:

Let's start off with an opening montage from Season 7:

And continue with "Lunchbox Helper":

How about "Sly Copy," with a special appearance by the one and only Britney Spears?

Or a combo of Gosling, Timberlake, Spears andÂ Christina Aguilera passing notes in class.Â Notice the use of the word "dweebmeister":

The breakdown during the closing credits (start at 0:40):

Tag-teaming to get ideas for a stellar boy band name -- because, yes, they were in fact part of a Mickey Mouse Club boy band together (just wait):

And when you thought that nostalgia couldn't get any better, we present you with not one, but two signs that Gosling should've been a member of *NSYNC all along...



Justin and Ryan, please do the world a favor and at least recreate this on Oscar Sunday.