One Dead, Four Injured in Shooting at Boosie BadAzz Video Set: Report
One Dead, Four Injured in Shooting at Boosie BadAzz Video Set: Report
Here Are the Best & Worst Moments From the 2017 Oscars Oscars 2017: See the Full Winners List 2017 Oscars Red Carpet & More: See All The Photos! Oscars 2017 Best Picture Flub: Katy Perry, Questlove and More React One Dead, Four Injured in Shooting at Boosie BadAzz Video Set: Report  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  One man was killed and four others injured in a Jacksonville, Fla., shooting where a rap music video was scheduled to be filmed, according to local news stationÂ News4Jax .Â The incidentÂ took place in front of Holley's Bar-B-Q,Â reportedly the set of aÂ BoosieÂ BadAzz and Baby SouljaÂ video shoot Saturday afternoon (Feb. 25). The sheriff's office said aÂ man in his 20sÂ was found dead around 1 p.m., while four others were transported to UF Health Jacksonville -- one taken in for surgery, and three with minor injuries. At press time, it is unclear whether the shots were fired at the event or by someone driving by, andÂ the victims' names have not been released. BoosieÂ announcedÂ his video shoot on InstagramÂ shortly before it was set to begin. A promo imageÂ stated: "Shoot starts at 12 noon in front of Holley's Bar B Q" onÂ Saturday. He has since posted other updates on social media, though none reference the reported shooting. reached out to a rep for Boosie, who declined to comment. Video shoot n next hour me n @babySoulja1 lit A post shared by Boosie BadAzz (@officialboosieig) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

One man was killed and four others injured in a Jacksonville, Fla., shooting where a rap music video was scheduled to be filmed, according to local news stationÂ News4Jax.Â

The incidentÂ took place in front of Holley's Bar-B-Q,Â reportedly the set of aÂ BoosieÂ BadAzz and Baby SouljaÂ video shoot Saturday afternoon (Feb. 25). The sheriff's office said aÂ man in his 20sÂ was found dead around 1 p.m., while four others were transported to UF Health Jacksonville -- one taken in for surgery, and three with minor injuries.

At press time, it is unclear whether the shots were fired at the event or by someone driving by, andÂ the victims' names have not been released.

BoosieÂ announcedÂ his video shoot on InstagramÂ shortly before it was set to begin. A promo imageÂ stated: "Shoot starts at 12 noon in front of Holley's Bar B Q" onÂ Saturday. He has since posted other updates on social media, though none reference the reported shooting.

Billboard reached out to a rep for Boosie, who declined to comment.