Brazilian lawyer dumped career to become a PROSTITUTE
Brazilian lawyer dumped career at bar to become a PROSTITUTE


A Brazilian lawyer claims she has found job satisfaction, and a better salary, after quitting her job and starting a new career - as a prostitute.

Respected attorney Claudia de Marchi, an expert in constitutional law, stunned clients and colleagues last year when she suddenly decided to leave her high-powered position in a law firm, and began to advertise her services as a 'high luxury courtesan'.

The 34-year-old moved to the country's capital Brasilia, where, instead of furthering her knowledge of Brazil's laws and government, she started providing sexual services to wealthy businessmen and politicians for £150 an hour.

Claudia de Marchi, 34, gave up her job with a high-powered law firm to become a prostitute

She said one of biggest reasons for the career move was to get away from the masculine selfishness of the legal world

Although she now spends time in bed with men, she said that she has been liberated from them. She also now orgasms at work

Ironically, one of the reasons for her drastic change of direction was that she could no longer tolerate the 'masculine selfishness and self-indulgence' she had encountered in the legal world.

Instead, the self-proclaimed feminist decided she would deal only with men willing to pay for her company, claiming she much prefers to 'orgasm, get paid, and that's all' than having to put up with living with 'male flaws' all day long.

Now, she claims the move was the 'best decision she ever made' after finding 'liberation' from men, as well making nearly £100,000 in the last year - far more than her lawyer's salary.

And while most prostitutes use a pseudonym to protect their true identity, unabashed Claudia has insisted she is proud of what she has achieved - and even writes a tell-all blog, using her real name, about her sexual encounters which now gets over 8,000 hits a day.

The blog includes tutorials for men on subjects such as how they should behave with women, how to be a 'real man' and how to 'mature correctly', as well as tips on how to perform oral sex on a woman.

Moreover, her 64-year-old mother is so supportive of her new profession she recently moved away from her own home town to the capital, and now lives with her daughter at her home close to Brazil's parliament.

Cláudia, from Sorriso in central Brazil, graduated in law in 2005 and worked as a lawyer in the town for 11 years, specialising in the interpretation of Brazil's complex constitution after completing post-graduate studies.

She later started lecturing on constitutional law at the local Unic Sorriso university.

While still a lawyer, Claudia shared pictures of a very different life. While she looked glamorous, her photos were about life as a lecturer and working with students

Far from being private about her profession, Claudia runs a tell-all blog that gets 8,000 hits every day and uses her real name. She also shares pictures of her life

Claudia moved to Brazil's capital when she decided to give up her job in law, and her mother ended up moving closer too, to support the career

She now charges around £150 an hour and £650 a night for her services as a luxury courtesan

But she claims she grew tired of working in 'a man's world', as well as a succession of failed relationships, including a marriage which lasted just a year, and when she was dismissed from her university position 'because of someone's ego' in February last year, Claudia decided to rethink how she wanted to live her life.

Two months later, on April 11, she did her first night's work earning £125 as a prostitute after moving to Brasilia and advertising her services with the words: 'Discover that elegance, beauty, finesse, culture and intelligence can coexist in one woman. Claudia de Marchi, I am your greatest pleasure!'

In her blog, she described herself as 'a feminist with a disgust of functional illiterates and people who open their mouths without ever opening their brains to new writings, information and knowledge.'

She continues: 'Claudia loves anal sex, she's multi-orgasmic, but only does what she likes. Great option for smart, selective and tastful men who are sexually insatiable, but who also want intelligent and cultured conversation and quality company.'

Explaining her radical change in career, Claudia said: 'I cannot stand having to conform, the daily repetitive routine, or the laziness men have to reconquer us women every day.

'I'd already decided not to be a mother. So my decision had to do with frustrations I had accumulated over the years.

'From the beginning, I found that the legal world is very macho, with men relying on their daddies to help them up the ladder. Neither my father or my mother are lawyers, so I had to get on on my own. But with the passage of time, I became more unhappy and frustrated.'

And Claudia, an only child, revealed that it was her own mother who gave her the idea of making money by selling her body.

The legal world left her frustrated as she saw male colleagues get ahead with help from their parents, but with no one else in law in her family, she had to go it alone

Claudia captioned this picture with the message: 'Dr. Joaquim, whose lecture, in addition to helpful was great' after a good day at University

She said: 'One day my mother was watching a programme on TV interviewing luxury escort girls and was captivated by what they were saying. She encouraged me and when I took that decision, she supported me all the way.

'She said it was the most sensible decision that I've ever made in my life.'

Charging £150 an hour, or £650 a night, Claudia claims she goes with two to three clients a day. Justifying her price on her website, and warning men not to try to bargain it down, she writes: 'The amount charged is very small compared with what I know my company is worth.'

But she refuses to call herself a prostitute, claiming she chooses to have sex because he enjoys it, and that she is classier and pickier than common call girls.

She said: 'A prostitute will do everything for money. Not me. I only have sex with educated men. I try to forget about the money. My encounter isn't that mechanical thing, it's very affectionate.

'The payment is only something I don't even think about until the very end. I don't demand payment up front, because the guys I go with are always good people, and obviously I'm not a moron.

'I also adore sex. I wouldn't be in this profession if I didn't like it. So, I found a way to make money doing something that I like, marketting my sexual talent and my libido.

On her blog, Claudia gives people a glimpse into her life and shares images of her and her family

Claudia said she doesn't call herself a prostitute because she is not willing to do anything or sleep with anyone - including people who don't have her political views

'Both in my marriage and my relationships, the sex was always what was most special, so I decided to leave the cake and just have the cherry on the top.'

Claudia also claims she refuses to go with clients who have bad grammar and who don't share her political views - and will only accept a second encounter with a man she enjoyed being with.

She said: 'I do not attend men who speak or write wrongly and those who approach me as if I were an object. And I won't have sex with anybody who doesn't want to kiss me.

'I'm not too keen on politicians, that's not the reason I came to Brasilia. But I also allow myself the luxury of not accepting certain people whose political persuasions don't go with mine.

'As much as I love sex, I cannot bring myself to get intimate with a fascist. You don't have to talk about politics to have sex, but just to think about the nonsense they defend, the foolish things they say, I get turned off. I don't have the stomach.

Her clients must 'please her first' she says, and she refuses to see the same person twice if they don't concern themselves with her pleasure

She said her blog helps women to demand the best for themselves, in and out of bed and calls herself a feminist for her career choice

'I also only accept back the men who please me on the first time, who are concerned about my own pleasure, my orgasm, who are affectionate towards me.'

On her blog she often posts Whatsapp conversations with would-be clients she has rejected. Others who use terms which suggest a purely financial transaction, such as 'programme', common in Brazil for a sexual encounter with a prostitute, are promptly blocked.

In one message, a man says he only has 280 reals (£70). Claudia replies: 'Use it well. This doesn't even pay for a drop of my perfume. Kisses!'

Another man who begins his message 'Good night. How much?' is immediately blocked.

Claiming her decision to make money from her body is a form of liberation, as opposed to the male oppression she experienced as a lawyer, Claudia said she started her blog to try to help other women 'demand the best for themselves, both in and out of bed.'

She said: 'I believe that feminism is a liberation, not an obligation. It is being able to do, exclusively, what you desire. That's what I did, I made a decision thinking in my pleasure and in my sustenance.

'In a extremely rational way, there is no contradiction between you offering sexual pleasure to a man, and being a feminist. I want woman to unite and truly value themselves, instead of attacking each other, because when women spend their time fighting with each other, that is also a form of chauvinism.'