In the Face of A.L.S., Simon Fitzmaurice Finds His Fire Inside
In the Face of A.L.S., Simon Fitzmaurice Finds His Fire Inside
After his short film screened at the Sundance Film Festival in 2008, a euphoric Simon Fitzmaurice was walking the snowy streets of Park City, Utah, when his foot began to hurt. Back home in Ireland that summer, by then dealing with a pronounced limp, he received a shattering diagnosis: motor neuron disease, or M.N.D. (more commonly known in the United States as A.L.S., or Lou Gehrig’s Disease), a neurological disorder that causes increasing muscle weakness and eventual paralysis and is, in most cases, fatal. The doctor gave Mr. Fitzmaurice, then 33, three or four years to live. That might have been the end of any normal existence. But Mr. Fitzmaurice, by his own measure a “bit of a stubborn bastard,” was determined to leave his wife, Ruth, and their two young sons — with a third on the way — a legacy other than self-pity. The result is Mr. Fitzmaurice’s first feature film, and perhaps his salvation — “My Name Is Emily.” The movie, which o pened in limited release in the United States on Feb. 17, stars Evanna Lynch, the airy Luna Lovegood of “ Harry Potter ” fame, as a teenage outlier in both her Dublin foster home and high school who goes on the lam with her only friend (George Webster) to free her father (Michael Smiley) from a mental hospital. The film — with gorgeous scenes of Ms. Lynch plunged, nymphlike, into a cerulean sea or riding shotgun through the emerald countryside in a canary-yellow vintage Renault — won for best cinematography when it debuted at the Galway Film Fleadh in 2015. “I am not trying to prove anything,” Mr. Fitzmaurice wrote in an email, before quickly reconsidering. “Actually, I am trying to prove something. I remember thinking, ‘I must do this to show my children to never give up.’” Advertisement Mr. Fitzmaurice was writing with his hands when he began the script for “My Name Is Emily.” By the time he was finished, he was writing with his eyes. Advertisement Now 42, he has lost mobility in his limbs and can no longer speak, swallow or breathe without artificial help, and he uses a Tobii I-15 eye-gaze computer to communicate. A tracking device captures the movement of Mr. Fitzmaurice’s eyes as they rest on a letter or phrase on a smartphone-like keyboard, causing the characters to appear on a screen. When his thoughts are complete, he focuses on a “speak” button, and a computerized voice vocalizes his words. He used the computer to direct “Emily” for six weeks in the fall of 2014, not far from his home in Greystones, County Wicklow, just south of Dublin. By then, the producers Lesley McKimm and Kathryn Kennedy had signed on, lured by what Ms. Kennedy called “the most beautifully written script I’d read in a very long time.” And the film’s 2 million euro (about $2.67 million in 2014) budget had been provided by the Irish Film Board and the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland, among others. Another 120,000 euros (at the time, nearly $161,000) — for support to Mr. Fitzmaurice — was raised through a crowdfunding campaign, buoyed by celebrity friends including Alan Rickman, Sam Neill and Colin Farrell, who narrated “It’s Not Yet Dark,” a new documentary based on Mr. Fitzmaurice’s best-selling 2014 autobiography . But things he’d taken for granted as an able-bodied director — standing on set during shooting, quickly conveying changes to actors — were now formidable obstacles. Despite his computer proficiency, there is nonetheless a short delay while he types his thoughts — a pause that can feel like an eternity to those waiting for his instructions. In preparation, he created storyboards of each shot so that cast and crew members knew what was expected in each moment. And because his computer doesn’t work in direct sunlight, Mr. Fitzmaurice had to direct the film’s many outdoor scenes from inside a dark tent. From dawn to dusk and sometimes throughout the night, he was there for every moment of the creative process, with his support director, Liz Gill, at his side. “Liz was my arms and legs,” he said. “We developed a shorthand; with a wink she would know whether I would like a take, whether to move on.” Working with people had originally drawn Mr. Fitzmaurice, a poet in his boisterous youth, to filmmaking. “I’m not made to write in a garret alone,” he wrote. “I was good with people before M.N.D., able to disarm them, put them at ease. But with all my tools gone — body language, touch, varying tones of voice, a few stories, a relaxing joke, and nothing left but my thoughts appearing slowly on a screen — I felt that the greatest challenge would be to see if this changed body would still allow me to direct actors.” Advertisement Before shooting began, he spent long evenings emailing with Ms. Lynch, helping to develop her character and preparing her for the challenges ahead. “You don’t realize until you speak with him how unnatural it feels to sit in silence with someone, especially someone you don’t know,” she said. “The silence brings up all your insecurities and vulnerabilities. I would say all what I’m thinking, but Simon can’t smile and can’t nod. It’s really an exercise in trust and collaboration, and not looking to the director for affirmation. ” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy From the first day of shooting onward, Mr. Fitzmaurice was elated. So was his wife, Ruth, whose essays about their home life for The Irish Times have resulted in a memoir, “I Found My Tribe,” out this summer. “Absolutely nobody wants a grumpy husband around the house who’s not working, and we were really just all behind him,” she said, recalling how she would pop down to the set after school with their five children, including twins they conceived in the summer of 2011, a few months after Mr. Fitzmaurice, having gone into respiratory failure , returned from the hospital on a ventilator. Though his body has been rendered motionless, “I could not sit still now,” he wrote. “I’m completely addicted to work, to getting on the road. A fire has been lit inside me.” He is writing another feature script as well as ruminations on his life in anticipation of a sequel to “It’s Not Yet Dark.” He is adamant that he loves being alive. “M.N.D. is defined by loss. By what it takes away. But this was me taking something back.” A version of this article appears in print on February 26, 2017, on Page AR29 of the with the headline: In Silence and Darkness, a Fire Is Lit.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Now 42, he has lost mobility in his limbs and can no longer speak, swallow or breathe without artificial help, and he uses a Tobii I-15 eye-gaze computer to communicate. A tracking device captures the movement of Mr. Fitzmaurice’s eyes as they rest on a letter or phrase on a smartphone-like keyboard, causing the characters to appear on a screen. When his thoughts are complete, he focuses on a “speak” button, and a computerized voice vocalizes his words.

Photo

He used the computer to direct “Emily” for six weeks in the fall of 2014, not far from his home in Greystones, County Wicklow, just south of Dublin. By then, the producers Lesley McKimm and Kathryn Kennedy had signed on, lured by what Ms. Kennedy called “the most beautifully written script I’d read in a very long time.” And the film’s 2 million euro (about $2.67 million in 2014) budget had been provided by the Irish Film Board and the Broadcasting Authority of Ireland, among others.

Another 120,000 euros (at the time, nearly $161,000) — for support to Mr. Fitzmaurice — was raised through a crowdfunding campaign, buoyed by celebrity friends including Alan Rickman, Sam Neill and Colin Farrell, who narrated “It’s Not Yet Dark,” a new documentary based on Mr. Fitzmaurice’s best-selling 2014 autobiography.

But things he’d taken for granted as an able-bodied director — standing on set during shooting, quickly conveying changes to actors — were now formidable obstacles. Despite his computer proficiency, there is nonetheless a short delay while he types his thoughts — a pause that can feel like an eternity to those waiting for his instructions. In preparation, he created storyboards of each shot so that cast and crew members knew what was expected in each moment.

And because his computer doesn’t work in direct sunlight, Mr. Fitzmaurice had to direct the film’s many outdoor scenes from inside a dark tent. From dawn to dusk and sometimes throughout the night, he was there for every moment of the creative process, with his support director, Liz Gill, at his side.

“Liz was my arms and legs,” he said. “We developed a shorthand; with a wink she would know whether I would like a take, whether to move on.”

Working with people had originally drawn Mr. Fitzmaurice, a poet in his boisterous youth, to filmmaking.

Photo

“I’m not made to write in a garret alone,” he wrote. “I was good with people before M.N.D., able to disarm them, put them at ease. But with all my tools gone — body language, touch, varying tones of voice, a few stories, a relaxing joke, and nothing left but my thoughts appearing slowly on a screen — I felt that the greatest challenge would be to see if this changed body would still allow me to direct actors.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before shooting began, he spent long evenings emailing with Ms. Lynch, helping to develop her character and preparing her for the challenges ahead.

“You don’t realize until you speak with him how unnatural it feels to sit in silence with someone, especially someone you don’t know,” she said. “The silence brings up all your insecurities and vulnerabilities. I would say all what I’m thinking, but Simon can’t smile and can’t nod. It’s really an exercise in trust and collaboration, and not looking to the director for affirmation. ”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

From the first day of shooting onward, Mr. Fitzmaurice was elated. So was his wife, Ruth, whose essays about their home life for The Irish Times have resulted in a memoir, “I Found My Tribe,” out this summer.

“Absolutely nobody wants a grumpy husband around the house who’s not working, and we were really just all behind him,” she said, recalling how she would pop down to the set after school with their five children, including twins they conceived in the summer of 2011, a few months after Mr. Fitzmaurice, having gone into respiratory failure, returned from the hospital on a ventilator.

Though his body has been rendered motionless, “I could not sit still now,” he wrote. “I’m completely addicted to work, to getting on the road. A fire has been lit inside me.” He is writing another feature script as well as ruminations on his life in anticipation of a sequel to “It’s Not Yet Dark.”

He is adamant that he loves being alive. “M.N.D. is defined by loss. By what it takes away. But this was me taking something back.”