Media organisations including BBC, New York Times challenge 'unprecedented' White House briefing ban
Media organisations including BBC, New York Times challenge 'unprecedented' White House briefing ban
eading news organisations including the BBC and New York Times led backlash against the White House for banning media outlets from a recent press briefing . The BBC, which Mr Trump derisively labelled "a real beauty" during a recent press conference, was among the organisations barred from Friday's daily press briefing . Paul Danahar, BBC Americas Editor, released a statement saying it was "not clear" what led to the ban. "The BBC's reporting of the White House will continued to be fair and impartial regardless," Mr Danahar wrote. #BBC statement on what happened @WhiteHouse today when we were barred from press briefing given by @seanspicer  pic.twitter.com/j0uVhPShz1 ean Baquet, editor of the New York Times, said the newspaper would "strongly protest" the decision to ban it and several other major outlets. "Nothing like this has ever happened at the White House in our long history of covering multiple administrations of different parties," he said. CNN, which was also banned, called the move "unacceptable" in a statement: "Apparently this is how they retaliate when you report facts they don't like. We'll keep reporting regardless." President Donald Trump has declared the press the "enemy of the people" and lambasted media outlets by name after reports criticising his administration. ours after Mr Trump unleashed an anti-media diatribe at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) Sean Spicer, the president's spokesman, barred those organisations and others from a briefing in his office. Mr Spicer said the Trump White House had been showing "an abundance of accessibility", but that he understood why there had been complaints. A video clip from December in which Mr Spicer said he would not ban specific outlets because open access was "what makes a democracy a democracy versus a dictatorship" spread widely online. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mr Spicer's deputy, defended the move, saying the briefing was going to limited to a small "pool" before "we decided to add a couple of additional people beyond the pool." mong those invited were right-wing outlets including Breitbart News, the website once led by White House chief strategist Steve Bannon. Mr Bannon has taken to calling mainstream media outlets "the opposition party". "If you think they're going to give you your country back without a fight, you are sadly mistaken," he said of the media at CPAC. "Every day it is going to be a fight." Barack Obama often gave special access to certain news organisations, though his administration never blocked credentialed outlets from daily press briefings. FAKE NEWS media knowingly doesn't tell the truth. A great danger to our country. The failing @nytimes has become a joke. Likewise @CNN . Sad! r Trump continued to criticise the media on Saturday, claiming he was not receiving sufficient credit for the state of the US economy. It also emerged that the White House enlisted senior intelligence officials and members of Congress to contact news organisations and refute reports of links between Mr Trump's campaign aides and Russian intelligence. Mr Spicer confirmed that report, from the Washington Post, but denied that anything inappropriate had taken place. In a fresh escalation of hostilities, Mr Trump announced he will not attend the annual White House Correspondents Association dinner, a high-profile event that draws celebrities, politicians and journalists. I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening! "I will not be attending the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner this year. Please wish everyone well and have a great evening!", Mr Trump wrote on Twitter.

Leading news organisations including the BBC and New York Times led backlash against the White House for banning media outlets from a recent press briefing.

The BBC, which Mr Trump derisively labelled "a real beauty" during a recent press conference, was among the organisations barred from Friday's daily press briefing.

Paul Danahar, BBC Americas Editor, released a statement saying it was "not clear" what led to the ban.

"The BBC's reporting of the White House will continued to be fair and impartial regardless," Mr Danahar wrote.