Rory McIlroy: Golfing with Trump Not an 'Endorsement' or 'Political Statement'

Rory McIlroy: Golfing with Trump Not an 'Endorsement' or 'Political Statement' // // // // // // Pro golfer Rory McIlroy was slammed on social media for his recent decision to play a round of golf with President Donald Trump. The four-time major champion tweeted his response on Friday, saying it was not an "endorsement" or a "political statement." pic.twitter.com/T4N0cFyoaY — Rory McIlroy (@McIlroyRory) February 24, 2017 "Golf was our common ground, nothing else," McIlroy wrote in a note on his cellphone concerning Trump. McIlroy said he "respects the office" that the president holds. According to The New York Times , the overwhelming majority of PGA Tour golfers would still play with the president, if asked. Reporter Karen Crouse said she asked the question to 56 golfers and 50 (89.3) said they would indeed play with Trump. Just three said no, while three declined to answer.

Pro golfer Rory McIlroy was slammed on social media for his recent decision to play a round of golf with President Donald Trump.

The four-time major champion tweeted his response on Friday, saying it was not an "endorsement" or a "political statement."

Is Starbucks' Brand Taking a Hit Due to Refugee Hiring Plan?

This Basketball Player Chose a Bad Time to Tie Her Shoe

"Golf was our common ground, nothing else," McIlroy wrote in a note on his cellphone concerning Trump.

McIlroy said he "respects the office" that the president holds.

According to The New York Times, the overwhelming majority of PGA Tour golfers would still play with the president, if asked.

Reporter Karen Crouse said she asked the question to 56 golfers and 50 (89.3) said they would indeed play with Trump. Just three said no, while three declined to answer.

Bernie Sanders Trolls Trump on Twitter with Inauguration Crowd-Size Photo

Witches Cast Mass Spell with Hopes of Removing Trump from Office

TUESDAY: 'Fox & Friends' Has a Must-See Interview With President Trump