John Legend's Twitter Hacked, Series of Bizarre Anti-Trump Tweets Posted
John Legend's Twitter Hacked, Series of Bizarre Anti-Trump Tweets Posted
Oscars 2017: See the Full Winners List 2017 Oscars Red Carpet & More: See All The Photos! Watch Lin-Manuel Miranda and Auli'i Cravalho Perform 'How Far I'll Go' at the 2017 Oscars Justin Timberlake Opens 2017 Oscars With Lively 'Can't Stop the Feeling!' Performance: Watch John Legend's Twitter Hacked, Series of Bizarre Anti-Trump Tweets Posted  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  John Legend , who has been vocal in his disapproval of President Donald Trump in the past, had his Twitter account apparently hacked on Friday night (Feb. 24). After tweets on the singer's account called Trump "Liar-in-Chief" and referenced "crises in Bowling Green and Sweden" -- a knock on recent comments about a terror attack that never occurred by Trump Cabinet member Kellyanne Conway and a gaff made by Trump himself citing erroneous reports of attacks in Sweden -- Legend posted, "Someone just hacked my account." Our president is too preoccupied with the crises in Bowling Green and Sweden. He can't speak out against hate crimes by white supremacists. https://t.co/QUC7MJ4QUN Quick fact check on the Liar-In-Chief: These particular news outlets are doing extremely well right now. https://t.co/uZW2TFyCw5 Someone just hacked my account. However, minutes later, a series of bizarre and explicit tweets came pouring in. "I can not stand by and be silent. @realDonaldTrump , you're a bitch ass n---- and if I see you, I'm stomping your shit you f---ing cheetoh," read one tweet, while another referenced Hillary Clinton and a desire to perform lewd actions with the former presidential candidate and others referenced drugs and strip clubs. Another tweet read: "i will follow 5 who follow @Owen755." The linked account was of an unverified user, who soon after claimed responsibility for the hack with a tweet of his own: "That was fun." The account was later suspended. Within a few minutes, the tweets were promptly deleted from Legend's account. The singer laughed off the hacking Friday night, writing, "I'm back. My hacker was vulgar and kinda hilarious. I'll try to be funnier from now on so he won't feel the need to ghost write for me." He also clarified, "I would never threaten violence to the President. No matter how much I wish he would go away." I'm back. My hacker was vulgar and kinda hilarious. I'll try to be funnier from now on so he won't feel the need to ghost write for me. I would never threaten violence to the President. No matter how much I wish he would go away. I wouldn't call him a Cheeto because I enjoy Cheetos. I did call him Liar-In-Chief. Then my hacker took over to do the Angrier John version of it all. My hacker's assessment of my endowment was confusing. Big in the tweet about Hillary. Small in the bio. Make up your mind, hacker.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

John Legend onstage during the 74th Annual Golden Globe Awards at the Beverly Hilton Hotel on Jan. 8, 2017 in Beverly Hills, Calif.

John Legend, who has been vocal in his disapproval of President Donald Trump in the past, had his Twitter account apparently hacked on Friday night (Feb. 24).

After tweets on the singer's account called Trump "Liar-in-Chief" and referenced "crises in Bowling Green and Sweden" -- a knock on recent comments about a terror attack that never occurred by Trump Cabinet member Kellyanne Conway and a gaff made by Trump himself citing erroneous reports of attacks in Sweden -- Legend posted, "Someone just hacked my account."

Our president is too preoccupied with the crises in Bowling Green and Sweden. He can't speak out against hate crimes by white supremacists. https://t.co/QUC7MJ4QUN — John Legend (@johnlegend) February 25, 2017

Quick fact check on the Liar-In-Chief: These particular news outlets are doing extremely well right now. https://t.co/uZW2TFyCw5 — John Legend (@johnlegend) February 25, 2017

Someone just hacked my account. — John Legend (@johnlegend) February 25, 2017

However, minutes later, a series of bizarre and explicit tweets came pouring in. "I can not stand by and be silent. @realDonaldTrump , you're a bitch ass n---- and if I see you, I'm stomping your shit you f---ing cheetoh," read one tweet, while another referenced Hillary Clinton and a desire to perform lewd actions with the former presidential candidate and others referenced drugs and strip clubs.

Another tweet read: "i will follow 5 who follow @Owen755." The linked account was of an unverified user, who soon after claimed responsibility for the hack with a tweet of his own: "That was fun." The account was later suspended.

Within a few minutes, the tweets were promptly deleted from Legend's account. The singer laughed off the hacking Friday night, writing, "I'm back. My hacker was vulgar and kinda hilarious. I'll try to be funnier from now on so he won't feel the need to ghost write for me." He also clarified, "I would never threaten violence to the President. No matter how much I wish he would go away."

I'm back. My hacker was vulgar and kinda hilarious. I'll try to be funnier from now on so he won't feel the need to ghost write for me. — John Legend (@johnlegend) February 25, 2017

I would never threaten violence to the President. No matter how much I wish he would go away. — John Legend (@johnlegend) February 25, 2017

I wouldn't call him a Cheeto because I enjoy Cheetos. — John Legend (@johnlegend) February 25, 2017

I did call him Liar-In-Chief. Then my hacker took over to do the Angrier John version of it all. — John Legend (@johnlegend) February 25, 2017

My hacker's assessment of my endowment was confusing. Big in the tweet about Hillary. Small in the bio. Make up your mind, hacker. — John Legend (@johnlegend) February 25, 2017

This article originally appeared in THR.com.