Airfare to these destinations could drop in time for spring break
Airfare to these destinations could drop in time for spring break
But first, there are a few tips to ensure you get the best airfare. First, it’s a good idea to set a price drop alert on your favorite booking website. This will allow you to take advantage of the lower airfare as soon as it becomes available. It’s also helpful to book trips that start on a Tuesday, which is the cheapest day to depart. In comparison, Friday is the most expensive day to depart and will cost you 16% more.     Girls/guys trip — Fort Lauderdale, Fla.    More: The best Spring Break hotels for under $150 a night The little-known airline making travel to Mexico cheaper Thanks to Trump, travel to Mexico is cheaper in 2017

As winter storms continue to move across the US, we are reminded that the official start to spring is still a few weeks away. Even so, the end of February marks the start of spring break season, a time when students and families abandon frigid temps in search of sun, fun and happy hour drink specials.

For those of you still struggling with where to go, Hopper has compiled a list of destinations where airfare is expected to drop in the coming weeks. Using that data, we’ve put together some spring break vacations for every group and every budget.

But first, there are a few tips to ensure you get the best airfare. First, it’s a good idea to set a price drop alert on your favorite booking website. This will allow you to take advantage of the lower airfare as soon as it becomes available. It’s also helpful to book trips that start on a Tuesday, which is the cheapest day to depart. In comparison, Friday is the most expensive day to depart and will cost you 16% more.

Tropical family getaway — Punta Cana, Dominican Republic

Located on the eastern tip of the Dominican Republic, Punta Cana is a Caribbean paradise with miles of beach and tons of sun. According to Hopper, the average round-trip ticket to the island will cost $479, but prices are expected to drop, and you could save up to 42% if you set a fare alert.

Budget-friendly stay:

The Gran Bahia Principe Turquesa has everything a family needs for their vacation, including bumper cars, a waterpark with slides and daily family-friendly shows (like “The Lion King”). Even better, the all-inclusive resort has rates in March starting at $187 a night.

Splurge-worthy stay:

If you’re willing to spend a little more dough, consider a stay at The Reserve at Paradisus Palma Real. Named a TripAdvisor Travelers Choice hotel for 2017, this all-inclusive resort comes with a golf course, spa and pool. The fully equipped “kids zone” is designed for children under 12, and comes with a kiddie pool, slides and a paddling pool for toddlers. Guests can even opt for a family concierge who will coordinate activities for your kids (eco tour, pizza making, water sports), so you can focus on relaxation. All of this starts at $542 a night.

Romantic escape— San Juan, Puerto Rico

View photos The pool at Candado Vanderbuilt hotel. (Candado Vanderbuilt hotel) More

Puerto Rico was named the No. 1 US island in USA Today’s 2016 Reader’s Choice list, and for good reason. The tiny island is packed with history, culture, music and incredible cuisine. Grab your partner and relax on the beach, go boating or sip on rum during a tour of the famous Bacardi facility. The average round-trip ticket to San Juan currently hovers around $277, and prices are expected to remain steady or even drop in the coming weeks. And remember, US citizens do not need their passport.

Budget-friendly stay:

If you’re looking for a little history, stay at the Hotel El Convento, a former convent for the Monastery of Our Lady Carmen of San Jose. Today, the boutique hotel has 58 rooms, a plunge pool, Jacuzzi and 24-hour fitness center. The best part about Hotel El Convento is that its location in Old San Juan puts it in walking distance from attractions like the San Felipe del Morro Fortress and the Galeria Nacional. Room rates start at $265 a night.

Splurge-worthy stay:

If rest and relaxation are what you crave, head to the Condado Vanderbilt Hotel, an elegant resort ranked as the No. 1 hotel in San Juan on TripAdvisor. Live it up with access to a beach club, golf course and casino, or take it slow with a romantic couples massage at the spa. Afterwards, head to dinner at the 1919 Restaurant where Michelin Star-rated Chef Juan Cuevas will prepare your meal. We were able to find rooms for $398 a night, but travelers can save even more by bundling flight and accommodations through a site like Orbitz or Expedia.

Girls/guys trip — Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Read More