The Euro
The Euro
Merkel Says Weak Euro Isn't Her ‘Problem’ in Stand on Trump Draghi Says Euro Is Irreversible as Le Pen Urges French Exit This Is Marine Le Pen’s Plan to Break Up the Euro Europe’s Future Scares Davos Elite as Political Risk Mounts Dimon Says Euro Zone May Not Survive If Concerns Are Ignored Don't Sell the Euro Short. It's Here to Stay. Only Germans Love the Euro These Days Switching Debt to Francs Would Cost France Dearly Transgender Rights Neutral Interest Rates Marijuana Legalization Indonesia’s Nationalism

The Situation

Anti-EU protest parties across the continent have gained support from voters fed up with the failings of other countries and the loss of control to bureaucrats in Brussels. Withdraw from the 19-nation euro is a rallying cry for Italy’s Five Star Movement and Marine Le Pen’s National Front in France, which has rattled investors with promises to redenominate the country’s debt into a new national currency if it takes power after an election in May. Greece is struggling to meet creditors’ demands in return for crucial loan payments again, after surrendering to euro-zone leaders in 2015 to qualify for its third bailout in five years and remain part of the common currency. Months of bitter disagreement and Germany’s insistence on more austerity has left a lingering sense that Greece will have to leave the currency union sooner or later. Europe’s slow recovery from its worst-ever recession hasn’t helped, with euro-zone unemployment holding close to a record 12 percent for three years. The euro dropped by the most on record in June 2016 on the surprise decision by British voters to leave the EU, even though the U.K. is not part of the common currency.





The Background

The precursor to the EU was set up in 1958, as the continent’s leaders vowed to make another war between them all but impossible. The euro came 41 years later, when a group of 11 countries jettisoned marks, francs and lire and turned control of interest rates over to a new central bank. The common currency’s scale provided better access to world markets and exchange-rate stability. It did not, however, impose uniform financial discipline; to avoid surrendering national sovereignty, politicians largely sidestepped a unified approach to bank regulation and government spending. While there were rules, they were flouted. The crisis that brought the euro to its knees came during the global rout in 2009, when Greece came clean and said its budget deficit was twice as wide as forecast. Investors started dumping assets of the most indebted nations and borrowing costs soared. The shared euro made it impossible to devalue individual currencies of weaker economies, limiting options for recovery. Politicians lurched through bailouts for Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus plus a rescue of banks in Spain. The panic fueled fears of a breakup as fragile banks exposed the common currency’s vulnerabilities. The firestorm abated in July 2012, when European Central Bank President Mario Draghi pledged to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro.





Who Still Loves the Euro? Pro-euro sentiment has risen sharply in Germany, while the opposite has happened in Italy and France

The Argument

Euro-area leaders say the common currency is now more resilient in the face of shocks. They argue that even if Greece were to fall out of the euro, the currency would survive, though there's a vigorous debate about the economic and political consequences. New systems have been put in place to centralize bank supervision and build firewalls between troubled debtors and taxpayers. The measures still may not have gone far enough. Aspirations by the euro's founders for an "ever closer union" — including more oversight of national budgets and the pooling of debt — have not been realized and the euro’s flaws could sow the seeds for another crisis. There's a regular chorus of business leaders, analysts and politicians who say that the currency's structural deficiencies mean its demise is just a matter of time. Existential doubts about the common currency remain.

The Reference Shelf

To receive a free monthly QuickTake newsletter, sign up at bloombergbriefs.com/quicktake

To contact the writer of this QuickTake:

Ian Wishart in Brussels at iwishart@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this QuickTake:

Leah Harrison at lharrison@bloomberg.net