This Trump Supporter Neta Says Hindu Men Living In US Should Wear A 'Tilak' For Their Security
This Trump Supporter Neta Says Hindu Men Living In US Should Wear A 'Tilak' For Their Security
This Trump Supporter Neta Says Hindu Men Living In US Should Wear A 'Tilak' For Their Security Just two days after an Indian techie was killed in a hate crime in Kansas, America, Hindu Samhati president Tapan Ghosh has advised Hindu men should wear the tilak and women the bindi to conspicuously reflect their identity, which according to him will increase their security. "Hindus should show identity by wearing Tilak, women should wear bindi, for security," Ghosh told ANI on Saturday. The right-wing politician also said that terrorists do not consider a person's religion when attacking them, which makes us wonder why he solicited the said advice in the first place. "Do terrorists consider if you are Hindu or Muslim? Muslim clerics must tell followers to embrace Hindu and/or Christian symbols for security," Ghosh said. The Hindu Samhati founder's remarks come at a time when the Indian diaspora in the US is reeling after engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla was shot dead by a by a navy veteran in Kansas City and another was injured. The attacker, Adam W Purington, reportedly shouted "Get out of my country!" and "terrorist" before opening fire on Srinivas and his techie friend Alok Madasani. ALSO READ: In the aftermath of the shooting, Srinivas's wife Sunayana Dumala said reports of bias against minorities in the US make them afraid and demanded what the Trump administration would do to stop hate crimes against minorities. It is interesting to note that Tapan Ghosh is a supporter of US President Donald Trump. Ghosh frequently retweets Trump's posts on Twitter, hailing his presidency and commending the billionaire for his policies and opinions.

Just two days after an Indian techie was killed in a hate crime in Kansas, America, Hindu Samhati president Tapan Ghosh has advised Hindu men should wear the tilak and women the bindi to conspicuously reflect their identity, which according to him will increase their security.

PTI

"Hindus should show identity by wearing Tilak, women should wear bindi, for security," Ghosh told ANI on Saturday.

The right-wing politician also said that terrorists do not consider a person's religion when attacking them, which makes us wonder why he solicited the said advice in the first place.

"Do terrorists consider if you are Hindu or Muslim? Muslim clerics must tell followers to embrace Hindu and/or Christian symbols for security," Ghosh said.

The Hindu Samhati founder's remarks come at a time when the Indian diaspora in the US is reeling after engineer Srinivas Kuchibhotla was shot dead by a by a navy veteran in Kansas City and another was injured. The attacker, Adam W Purington, reportedly shouted "Get out of my country!" and "terrorist" before opening fire on Srinivas and his techie friend Alok Madasani.

ALSO READ: This American Man Tried To Save Indians From Racist Attacker And Took The Bullet In His Chest

BCCL

Authorities charged Purinton, 51, with first-degree murder in Kuchibhotla's death. The incident is being investigated as a possible hate crime.

In the aftermath of the shooting, Srinivas's wife Sunayana Dumala said reports of bias against minorities in the US make them afraid and demanded what the Trump administration would do to stop hate crimes against minorities.

It is interesting to note that Tapan Ghosh is a supporter of US President Donald Trump. Ghosh frequently retweets Trump's posts on Twitter, hailing his presidency and commending the billionaire for his policies and opinions.

Originally published in Times of India

Don't Miss 52.9 K SHARES 39 K SHARES 25.4 K SHARES 21.9 K SHARES 36.2 K SHARES