Iran begins annual navy drill off Strait of Hormuz
Iran begins annual navy drill off Strait of Hormuz
Shares                Iran's navy began an annual drill Sunday near the strategic Strait of Hormuz, its first major exercise since the inauguration of U.S. President Donald Trump, state television reported. The TV report quoted navy chief Adm. Habibollah Sayyari as saying the two-day maneuver will cover an area of 2 million square kilometers (772,000 square miles) in the Sea of Oman and the Indian Ocean near the strait. It showed Iranian warships and helicopters taking part in the exercise. Nearly a third of all oil traded by sea passes through the strait and it has been the scene of previous confrontations between the U.S. and Iran. But the drill does not involve Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard, a paramilitary force the U.S. Navy often criticizes for harassing its vessels. The U.S. Navy's 5th Fleet, based in Bahrain , declined to comment on the exercise or discuss if it had any plans to monitor the drill. Iran's navy routinely holds war games it says are aimed at improving its readiness against threats. It also sends its warships to international waters off the Gulf of Aden to fight piracy. Shares                  Iran begins annual navy drill off Strait of Hormuz   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   'People's Court' Judge Joseph Wapner dead at 97   Democrats' new chair on electoral mistakes: 'We ignored rural swaths of America'   Pelosi: Trump 'has nothing to show' for 1st month in office except 'fear'   Muhammad Ali's son asked, 'Are you Muslim?' by border agents   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera   Foreign minister welcomes Iran Oscar for best foreign film   Sessions' tough on crime talk could lead to fuller prisons   S. Carolina law makes it tough to lower Confederate flags   Taliban leader encourages people to plant trees   Malaysia: Poisoning of Kim caused paralysis, quick death   Egypt's Christians flee terror in north Sinai security void   Sharp vision: New glasses help the legally blind see   Letter-writing former Iran president pens dispatch to Trump   Israel to Amazon: Stop selling Holocaust-denying literature   GOP congressman says no room for compromise in repealing Obamacare   Report warns of state money fallout from health law repeal   Congress returns, with health care, Supreme Court on agenda   Suspect in Mardi Gras parade crash expected to face at least 19 more charges   Suspected drunk driver plows into New Orleans parade crowd, 28 injured   8-year-old fatally shot in Houston after car crash   Mahershala Ali thanks wife, who gave birth days ago, for carrying him through awards season   Viola Davis wins best supporting actress Oscar for her role in 'Fences'   Poll: Israelis believe Gaza policies hurting security   Oscars 2017: What you didn't see on TV   Actor Bill Paxton dies at age 61   'The Salesman' wins best foreign language Oscar   Oscars 'In Memoriam' remembers Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher

Iran's navy began an annual drill Sunday near the strategic Strait of Hormuz, its first major exercise since the inauguration of U.S. President Donald Trump, state television reported.

The TV report quoted navy chief Adm. Habibollah Sayyari as saying the two-day maneuver will cover an area of 2 million square kilometers (772,000 square miles) in the Sea of Oman and the Indian Ocean near the strait. It showed Iranian warships and helicopters taking part in the exercise.

Nearly a third of all oil traded by sea passes through the strait and it has been the scene of previous confrontations between the U.S. and Iran.

But the drill does not involve Iran's elite Revolutionary Guard, a paramilitary force the U.S. Navy often criticizes for harassing its vessels.

The U.S. Navy's 5th Fleet, based in Bahrain, declined to comment on the exercise or discuss if it had any plans to monitor the drill.

Iran's navy routinely holds war games it says are aimed at improving its readiness against threats. It also sends its warships to international waters off the Gulf of Aden to fight piracy.