Israeli premier calls 1st visit to Australia 'wonderful'
Israeli premier calls 1st visit to Australia 'wonderful'
Shares                 Benjamin Netanyahu has described his visit to Australia , a first for a serving Israeli prime minister, as "wonderful." Netanyahu and his wife Sara concluded their five-day trip to Sydney on Sunday by meeting with Foreign Minister Julie Bishop. "This has been a wonderful visit here. You people are amazing," Netanyahu told Bishop before talks behind closed doors. Netanyahu joked with Bishop, who had recently arrived home from a trip to the United States and Britain, that the pair had "shared more or less the same route." Netanyahu and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull last week agreed to deepen business and travel links between the two countries. About 1,000 pro-Palestinian protesters at Sydney's Town Hall on Thursday night complained that Netanyahu was being treated like a celebrity in Australia when he should be tried for war crimes. He was also accused by former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of frustrating negotiations with the U.S. to create a two-state solution to Israel's conflict with the Palestinians. Netanyahu met political, business and Jewish community leaders during his stay. He was accompanied by a large security contingent as he traveled around Sydney. Netanyahu had been to Australia twice before but never as prime minister. "I'd stay longer if I could," he told Bishop. Shares                  Israeli premier calls 1st visit to Australia 'wonderful'   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   'People's Court' Judge Joseph Wapner dead at 97   Democrats' new chair on electoral mistakes: 'We ignored rural swaths of America'   Pelosi: Trump 'has nothing to show' for 1st month in office except 'fear'   Muhammad Ali's son asked, 'Are you Muslim?' by border agents   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera   Foreign minister welcomes Iran Oscar for best foreign film   Sessions' tough on crime talk could lead to fuller prisons   S. Carolina law makes it tough to lower Confederate flags   Taliban leader encourages people to plant trees   Malaysia: Poisoning of Kim caused paralysis, quick death   Egypt's Christians flee terror in north Sinai security void   Sharp vision: New glasses help the legally blind see   Letter-writing former Iran president pens dispatch to Trump   Israel to Amazon: Stop selling Holocaust-denying literature   GOP congressman says no room for compromise in repealing Obamacare   Report warns of state money fallout from health law repeal   Congress returns, with health care, Supreme Court on agenda   Suspect in Mardi Gras parade crash expected to face at least 19 more charges   Suspected drunk driver plows into New Orleans parade crowd, 28 injured   8-year-old fatally shot in Houston after car crash   Mahershala Ali thanks wife, who gave birth days ago, for carrying him through awards season   Viola Davis wins best supporting actress Oscar for her role in 'Fences'   Poll: Israelis believe Gaza policies hurting security   Oscars 2017: What you didn't see on TV   Actor Bill Paxton dies at age 61   'The Salesman' wins best foreign language Oscar   Oscars 'In Memoriam' remembers Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher

Benjamin Netanyahu has described his visit to Australia, a first for a serving Israeli prime minister, as "wonderful."

Netanyahu and his wife Sara concluded their five-day trip to Sydney on Sunday by meeting with Foreign Minister Julie Bishop.

"This has been a wonderful visit here. You people are amazing," Netanyahu told Bishop before talks behind closed doors.

Netanyahu joked with Bishop, who had recently arrived home from a trip to the United States and Britain, that the pair had "shared more or less the same route."

Netanyahu and Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull last week agreed to deepen business and travel links between the two countries.

About 1,000 pro-Palestinian protesters at Sydney's Town Hall on Thursday night complained that Netanyahu was being treated like a celebrity in Australia when he should be tried for war crimes.

He was also accused by former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of frustrating negotiations with the U.S. to create a two-state solution to Israel's conflict with the Palestinians.

Netanyahu met political, business and Jewish community leaders during his stay. He was accompanied by a large security contingent as he traveled around Sydney.

Netanyahu had been to Australia twice before but never as prime minister.

"I'd stay longer if I could," he told Bishop.