NASA reveals stunning images of supernova
The supernova with the brightness of 100 million suns


In 1987, astronomers spotted a ‘titanic supernova’ in a nearby galaxy blazing with the power of over 100 million suns.

Now, to celebrate the 30th anniversary of its discovery, NASA has released stunning new data on the phenomenon, which is said to be one of the brightest exploding stars seen in over 400 years.

The series includes breathtaking images, time-lapse movies, and a 3D model, providing an unprecedented glimpse at Supernova 1987A.

Scroll down for video

The series of data released by NASA includes breathtaking images, time-lapse movies, and a 3D model, providing an unprecedented glimpse at Supernova 1987A. The animation above shows the luminous ring material that can be seen today

SUPERNOVA 1987A The supernova was first spotted on February 23, 1987. It’s said to be one of the brightest events of this kind to be detected in over 400 years, blazing with the power of 100 million suns. SN 1987A is located in the nearby Large Magellanic Cloud, making it the nearest stellar explosion seen in hundreds of years. It’s been observed by a number of instruments, including the Hubble Space Telescope, the Chandra x-ray Observatory, and the Atacama Large Millimetre/submillimetre Array (ALMA).

Since it was discovered 30 years ago, the remarkable supernova has been observed by a number of instruments, including the Hubble Space Telescope, the Chandra x-ray Observatory, and the Atacama Large Millimetre/submillimetre Array (ALMA).

SN 1987A sits in the nearby Large Magellanic Cloud, and is the nearest supernova observed in hundreds of years, according to NASA.

‘The 30 years’ worth of observations of SN 1987A are important because they provide insight into the last stages of stellar evolution,’ said Robert Kirshner of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation in Palo Alto, California.

With this data, astronomers have determined the supernova has crossed an important threshold, with the shock wave moving beyond the dense ring of gas late in the life of the pre-supernova star.

This happens when a fast outflow of wind from the star collided with a slower wind from an earlier red giant phase.

But, little is known about what lies beyond the ring.

‘The details of this transition will give astronomers a better understanding of the life of the doomed star, and how it ended,’ said Kari Frank of Penn State University who led the latest Chandra study of SN 1987A.

In 1987, astronomers spotted a ‘titanic supernova’ in a nearby galaxy blazing with the power of over 100 million suns. Now, to celebrate the 30th anniversary of its discovery, NASA has released stunning new data on the phenomenon, which is said to be one of the brightest exploding stars seen in over 400 years

Supernovae like this one can trigger the formation of new stars and planets, NASA explains.

These objects form from gas enriched with elements such as carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and iron – the basic components of life.

These elements are formed in the pre-supernova star, and during the supernova explosion.

As the remnants expand, they are dispersed throughout the host galaxy.

According to the researchers, studying the supernova could give clues into this process.

Throughout the years of observation, Hubble studies have found that the ring of gas around the supernova is glowing in optical light, with the diameter of roughly a light-year.

SN 1987A sits in the nearby Large Magellanic Cloud, and is the nearest supernova observed in hundreds of years, according to NASA. The images captured by the Hubble Space Telescope show the brightening of a ring of gas around the exploded star

This existed at least 20,000 years before the star exploded, and ultraviolet light from the explosion energized the gas inside, causing it to glow decades after.

Now, the central structure inside the ring in the Hubble image has grown to roughly half a light-year across.

And, there are two blobs of debris at the center of the supernova remnant.

These are travelling away from each other at about 20 million miles an hour.

Chandra data from 1999-2013 showed that an expanding ring of X-ray emission was getting brighter.

This was created as a blast wave from the original explosion bust through the ring of gas around the supernova.

Since it was discovered 30 years ago, the remarkable supernova has been observed by a number of instruments, including the Hubble Space Telescope, the Chandra x-ray Observatory, and the Atacama Large Millimetre/submillimetre Array (ALMA)

But, it’s stopped getting brighter in the past few years, and data from about February 2013-September 2015 show the total amount of low-energy X rays has been constant.

On top of this, the bottom left part of the ring has begun to fade.

Astronomers say this indicates the blast wave has moved to a region with less dense gas, beyond the ring – marking the end of an era.

Observations starting in 2012 with ALMA have shown that the remnant is forging new dust from the elements made by the progenitor star.

The findings suggest dust in the early universe may have formed in a similar way.

And, the team is working to find evidence of a black hole or neutron star left behind by the explosion, after observing a flash of neutrinos from the erupting star.