Warriors Become Fastest Team in NBA History to Clinch Playoff Berth
Warriors Become Fastest Team in NBA History to Clinch Playoff Berth
The 49-9 Golden State Warriors clinched a playoff spot Saturday, becoming the fastest team to do so in NBA history after beating the Brooklyn Nets 112-95. The Warriors topped their own record by two days, as last year's team—which set another NBA record with 73 regular-season wins—clinched a playoff berth Feb. 27. Both teams took 58 games to clinch a playoff spot, however, per ESPN Stats & Info . With their win tonight, the Warriors have officially clinched a playoff berth.

In February 😳 https://t.co/he4TsO5ER3 However, this year's team will only be interested in one thing: an NBA title. Few teams are more equipped to achieve that goal. Kevin Durant , Steph Curry and Klay Thompson are all averaging at least 22 points per game, while Draymond Green (10.0 PPG, 8.1 RPG, 7.1 APG, 1.5 BPG, 2.1 SPG) continues to be the team's emotional leader and most well-rounded player. Add in a veteran supporting cast, and the Warriors have few weaknesses. They quickly dispelled any notion that the addition of Durant over the summer might affect the team's chemistry. The most losses the Warriors have posted in any month came in December...with three. A few teams will have the opportunity to prevent a second title in three years for Golden State, namely the San Antonio Spurs and Cleveland Cavaliers . But the Warriors remain the heavy favorites, and with Saturday's record-setting win, they again proved why. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press

The 49-9 Golden State Warriors clinched a playoff spot Saturday, becoming the fastest team to do so in NBA history after beating the Brooklyn Nets 112-95.

The Warriors topped their own record by two days, as last year's team—which set another NBA record with 73 regular-season wins—clinched a playoff berth Feb. 27. Both teams took 58 games to clinch a playoff spot, however, per ESPN Stats & Info.

However, this year's team will only be interested in one thing: an NBA title.

Few teams are more equipped to achieve that goal. Kevin Durant, Steph Curry and Klay Thompson are all averaging at least 22 points per game, while Draymond Green (10.0 PPG, 8.1 RPG, 7.1 APG, 1.5 BPG, 2.1 SPG) continues to be the team's emotional leader and most well-rounded player.

Add in a veteran supporting cast, and the Warriors have few weaknesses.

They quickly dispelled any notion that the addition of Durant over the summer might affect the team's chemistry. The most losses the Warriors have posted in any month came in December...with three.

A few teams will have the opportunity to prevent a second title in three years for Golden State, namely the San Antonio Spurs and Cleveland Cavaliers. But the Warriors remain the heavy favorites, and with Saturday's record-setting win, they again proved why.