Father of Navy SEAL Killed in Yemen Raid Refused to Meet Trump at Ceremony
Father of Navy SEAL Killed in Raid Refused to Meet Trump
Father of Navy SEAL Killed in Yemen Raid Refused to Meet Trump at Ceremony "I told them I don't want to meet the president,'' the father said

The father of a Navy SEAL killed during an anti-terrorism raid in Yemen is demanding an investigation into its planning and criticized the Trump administration for its timing.

Bill Owens told The Miami Herald in a story published Sunday that he refused to meet with President Donald Trump when both came to Dover Air Force Base to receive the casket carrying his son, Chief Special Warfare Officer William "Ryan" Owens.

"I want an investigation,'' said Owens, a retired Fort Lauderdale police detective and veteran. "The government owes my son an investigation.''

White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders told ABC's "This Week'' on Sunday she believes the president would support an investigation.

Trump’s Executive Order Takes Aim at Regulations

President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Friday establishing a regulatory reform task force to investigate which government regulations can be simplified or eliminated. (Published Friday, Feb. 24, 2017)

"I can't imagine what this father is going through,'' she said. "His son is a true American hero, and we should forever been in his son's debt.''

The younger Owens, a 36-year-old married father of three originally from Peoria, Illinois, was the lone U.S. fatality in the Jan. 27 raid on a suspected al-Qaida compound. Approximately 16 civilians and 14 militants died in the raid, which the Pentagon said was aimed at capturing information on potential al-Qaida attacks against the U.S. and its allies.

The elder Owens, a retired Fort Lauderdale police detective and veteran, told the Herald he refused to meet with the president because the family had requested a private ceremony.

"I'm sorry, I don't want to see him,'' Owens recalled telling the chaplain who informed him that Trump was on his way from Washington. "I told them I don't want to meet the president.''

Trump Promises 'Roaring' American Comeback

President Donald Trump thanked his supporters during a speech at the 2017 Conservative Political Action Conference and promised a "roaring" comeback of an America that is "bigger, and better, and stronger than ever before." (Published Friday, Feb. 24, 2017)

He said he was also troubled by the attack Trump leveled at Khizr and Ghazala Kahn, an American Muslim family whose Army officer son died in Iraq in 2004. The couple had criticized him at the Democratic National Convention last summer. He also questioned why the president approved the raid a week after taking office.

"I told them I didn't want to make a scene about it, but my conscience wouldn't let me talk to him,'' Owens told the Herald. "Why at this time did there have to be this stupid mission when it wasn't even barely a week into his administration? Why? For two years prior, there were no boots on the ground in Yemen— everything was missiles and drones— because there was not a target worth one American life. Now, all of a sudden we had to make this grand display?''

Breaking Nominee for Navy Secretary Withdraws From Consideration

Sanders defended the raid in her interview with "This Week'' host George Stephanopoulos. The White House says the raid was planned during the Obama administration, but the former president's aides have said he hadn't given the go-ahead because it would have been an escalation of U.S. involvement in the war-torn and destitute Arab country.

"The mission has a lot of different critics, but it did yield a substantial amount of very important intel and resources that helped save American lives and other lives,'' Sanders said.

Trump Attacks Media at CPAC

President Donald Trump opened his 2017 CPAC speech with more attacks on the media Friday, calling fake news "the enemy of the people" and criticizing the media's use of anonymous sources. (Published Friday, Feb. 24, 2017)

Copyright Associated Press