Pentagon: Out with 'ISIL,' in with 'ISIS'
Pentagon: Out with 'ISIL,' in with 'ISIS'
Shares                The change of U.S. administrations has produced a change of terminology in the war against the Islamic State group. Out goes the name preferred by the Obama administration: the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, or ISIL. In comes the name favored by President Donald Trump: the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS. Why? A Feb. 13 memo from the office of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis says the switch to "ISIS" makes the Pentagon "consistent with" Trump's language in a Jan. 28 directive in which he called for a new plan to defeat the extremist group. When the Islamic State group swept east from Syria to grab large swaths of Iraqi territory in 2014, the world was divided over how to refer to the extremist group, which traces its roots to al-Qaida in Iraq, which declared an Islamic State of Iraq in 2006. In 2013 the leader of the Islamic State of Iraq, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi , renamed it the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham. Al-Sham is an archaic word for a vaguely defined territory that includes what is now Syria, Lebanon, Israel, the Palestinian territories and Jordan. It is most often translated as either Syria — in the sense of a greater Syria that no longer exists — or as the Levant, the closest English term for the territory it describes and the term preferred by the Obama administration. Al-Baghdadi later shortened the name to Islamic State, declaring that the territory under his control would be a caliphate, or Islamic state. In English, the group's name was most commonly translated as the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) or the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The Associated Press refers to it as the Islamic State group — to distinguish it from an internationally recognized state — or IS for short. In Iraq and other Arab countries opposed to IS the group is usually called Daesh, an Arabic acronym corresponding to ISIS. The term has a mocking tone and is insulting to IS because it diminishes its claim to have revived the Islamic caliphate. It is also close to the words "dahesh" and "da'es," meaning "one who tramples," making it fodder for puns. Shares                  Pentagon: Out with 'ISIL,' in with 'ISIS'   President Trump, first lady host first ball in the White House   GOP congressman says no room for compromise in repealing Obamacare   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Democrats' new chair on electoral mistakes: 'We ignored rural swaths of America'   Pelosi: Trump 'has nothing to show' for 1st month in office except 'fear'   White House spokesperson on call for special prosecutor in Russia probe: We're not 'there yet'   'This Week' Transcript 2-26-17: Leader Nancy Pelosi, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Rep. Jim Jordan, and Tom Perez   Former Labor Secretary Tom Perez elected DNC chair   10 celebs react to Trump's decision to skip star-studded dinner   Trump says he won't attend White House Correspondents Dinner   White House worked with House and Senate intelligence chairs to rebut Russia ties   What you need to know about new DNC chair Tom Perez   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera

The change of U.S. administrations has produced a change of terminology in the war against the Islamic State group.

Out goes the name preferred by the Obama administration: the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, or ISIL.

In comes the name favored by President Donald Trump: the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS.

Why?

A Feb. 13 memo from the office of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis says the switch to "ISIS" makes the Pentagon "consistent with" Trump's language in a Jan. 28 directive in which he called for a new plan to defeat the extremist group.

When the Islamic State group swept east from Syria to grab large swaths of Iraqi territory in 2014, the world was divided over how to refer to the extremist group, which traces its roots to al-Qaida in Iraq, which declared an Islamic State of Iraq in 2006. In 2013 the leader of the Islamic State of Iraq, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, renamed it the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham.

Al-Sham is an archaic word for a vaguely defined territory that includes what is now Syria, Lebanon, Israel, the Palestinian territories and Jordan. It is most often translated as either Syria — in the sense of a greater Syria that no longer exists — or as the Levant, the closest English term for the territory it describes and the term preferred by the Obama administration.

Al-Baghdadi later shortened the name to Islamic State, declaring that the territory under his control would be a caliphate, or Islamic state.

In English, the group's name was most commonly translated as the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) or the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The Associated Press refers to it as the Islamic State group — to distinguish it from an internationally recognized state — or IS for short.

In Iraq and other Arab countries opposed to IS the group is usually called Daesh, an Arabic acronym corresponding to ISIS. The term has a mocking tone and is insulting to IS because it diminishes its claim to have revived the Islamic caliphate. It is also close to the words "dahesh" and "da'es," meaning "one who tramples," making it fodder for puns.