NGO Adopted An Injured Horse & Got Her A Prosthetic Limb. Unlike Shaktiman, It's A Happy Ending
NGO Adopted An Injured Horse & Got Her A Prosthetic Limb. Unlike Shaktiman, It's A Happy Ending
NGO Adopted An Injured Horse & Got Her A Prosthetic Limb. Unlike Shaktiman, It's A Happy Ending In between our love for cats and dogs, a lot of animals gets snubbed and whether we say it or not, it's a snap-worthy issue. And while such debates will run like fire in the wind, it's a momentous topic where we decide why some animals are well-taken care of, while others get ignored. (Also read: This American Man Travelled All The Way To India Just To Deliver A Prosthetic Limb For Shaktiman ) So meet Animal Warriors, a group formed to unite all animal activists to share the services to serve animals better and so that all of them can be loved in the same way. Recently, the group rescued a 6-year-old mare.  They found out that her leg was infected and had to be amputated. So the group rescued her and made a small shelter for her. They rented a land, especially for her, so that she could have her own space to walk, eat, and live.  The group further went on to get a prosthetic limb for her and Bijli became the first of her race to have worn a prosthetic in India, successfully. The procedure happened in January, in Hyderabad and it was pretty successful. (Also read: India's Most Loved Police Horse Shaktiman Dies After Fighting With His Injuries And Amputation ) The team got in touch with Dr Tapesh Mathur, who runs an animal prosthetic limb centre in Jaipur and he's the person who's worked rigorously on her.

In between our love for cats and dogs, a lot of animals gets snubbed and whether we say it or not, it's a snap-worthy issue.

And while such debates will run like fire in the wind, it's a momentous topic where we decide why some animals are well-taken care of, while others get ignored.

(Also read: This American Man Travelled All The Way To India Just To Deliver A Prosthetic Limb For Shaktiman)

Papanas

So meet Animal Warriors, a group formed to unite all animal activists to share the services to serve animals better and so that all of them can be loved in the same way.

Recently, the group rescued a 6-year-old mare.

Papanas

They found out that her leg was infected and had to be amputated. So the group rescued her and made a small shelter for her.

They rented a land, especially for her, so that she could have her own space to walk, eat, and live.

Papanas

The group further went on to get a prosthetic limb for her and Bijli became the first of her race to have worn a prosthetic in India, successfully.

The procedure happened in January, in Hyderabad and it was pretty successful.

(Also read: India's Most Loved Police Horse Shaktiman Dies After Fighting With His Injuries And Amputation)

Papanas

The team got in touch with Dr Tapesh Mathur, who runs an animal prosthetic limb centre in Jaipur and he's the person who's worked rigorously on her.

Don't Miss 12.2 K SHARES 14 K SHARES 8.8 K SHARES

Watch the full video here: