Andrew Bogut Rumors: Cavaliers, Spurs and Celtics Among Teams Considering Center
Andrew Bogut Rumors: Cavaliers, Spurs and Celtics Among Teams Considering Center
The Vertical. The Dallas Mavericks traded Bogut to the Philadelphia 76ers in the deal for Nerlens Noel. The 32-year-old has engaged with the Sixers in buyout talks so he can become a free agent. The Cavs appear to be the front-runners to land Bogut and "h Marc Stein of ESPN previously named the Cavaliers, Rockets and Spurs as Bogut's most likely suitors. Bogut is averaging 3.0 points, 8.3 rebounds and 1.0 blocks in 22.4 minutes per game this season. He's a solid option off the bench and offers postseason experience, having made back-to-back Finals appearances with the Golden State Warriors . Before deciding upon a new team, Bogut must first negotiate a buyout with Philadelphia after being sent to the organization with Justin Anderson and a 2017 top-18 protected pick (which becomes two second-round picks if it doesn't convey) in exchange for Noel. However, he is unlikely to ever don a Sixers uniform. On Friday, Keith Pompey of the reported the veteran wouldn't be with the team for at least a week due to personal reasons. And with young centers Joel Embiid, Jahlil Okafor and Richaun Holmes already on the roster, the team has little need for Bogut. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Brian Sevald/Getty Images

The Cleveland Cavaliers, San Antonio Spurs, Houston Rockets, Boston Celtics and Utah Jazz have "had discussions" with veteran center Andrew Bogut's representatives in hopes of signing him, according to Shams Charania of The Vertical.

The Dallas Mavericks traded Bogut to the Philadelphia 76ers in the deal for Nerlens Noel. The 32-year-old has engaged with the Sixers in buyout talks so he can become a free agent.

"Bogut has had a phone conversation with 76ers coach Brett Brown since his trade from Dallas, league sources said, and he respects Brown and the culture of the 76ers," Charania wrote. "However, Bogut wants to pursue a championship and play a significant role for a veteran team."



The Cavs appear to be the front-runners to land Bogut and "have long had their eye" on him, according to Jason Lloyd of the Akron Beacon Journal, though the Rockets are expected to provide competition. ESPN's Tim MacMahon reported two Mavericks sources expect Bogut to join the Cavaliers.

Marc Stein of ESPN previously named the Cavaliers, Rockets and Spurs as Bogut's most likely suitors.

Bogut is averaging 3.0 points, 8.3 rebounds and 1.0 blocks in 22.4 minutes per game this season. He's a solid option off the bench and offers postseason experience, having made back-to-back Finals appearances with the Golden State Warriors.

Before deciding upon a new team, Bogut must first negotiate a buyout with Philadelphia after being sent to the organization with Justin Anderson and a 2017 top-18 protected pick (which becomes two second-round picks if it doesn't convey) in exchange for Noel. However, he is unlikely to ever don a Sixers uniform.

On Friday, Keith Pompey of the Philadelphia Inquirer reported the veteran wouldn't be with the team for at least a week due to personal reasons. And with young centers Joel Embiid, Jahlil Okafor and Richaun Holmes already on the roster, the team has little need for Bogut.

The Australian will become a free agent after the season and is making a little over $11 million this year.