22 Powerful Women You’ll Want Your Daughter To Look Up To
22 Powerful Women You'll Want Your Daughter To Look Up To
Issa Rae, Actor/Writer/Director Issa Rae premiered her very own HBO original series, , last year to much fanfare and to many a “yaaass.” The show was well-received for its relatability, hilarity, awkwardness, and overall realness. Issa’s hard work paid off in the form of a Golden Globe nomination for Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series – Musical or Comedy. HBO green-lit ’s second season and fans are waiting with bated breath. Melina Matsoukas, Music Video Director Melina Matsoukas directed the videos for Beyoncé’s “Formation,” Rihanna’s “We Found Love,” and a host of other popular mega-hits. When she’s not bringing music to life, the two-time Grammy winner is directing popular TV commercials. Matsoukas also served as executive producer on with Issa Rae, proving that her talent for music videos translates perfectly to the small screen. Yara Shahidi, Actor/Model  View on Instagram Seventeen-year-old Yara Shahidi plays the role of Zoey on . The show has had a whirlwind of a year, receiving award nominations and accolades. Shahidi also recently signed a modeling deal with New York Women’s Management with the focus of helping spread the notion of diversity. She told last year, “I think it is part of our duty as content creators and people within the entertainment industry to challenge stereotypes.” Shiona Turini, Fashion Collaborator  View on Instagram Shiona Turini doesn’t like to be called a stylist. Instead she wants to be known as a “fashion collaborator.” That’s what she told the after helping to style and outfit Solange for two music videos (“Don’t Touch My Hair” and “Cranes in the Sky”) off her most recent album, . Now a freelancer, Turini has worked for a host of high-profile magazines, including , , , and . Elaine Welteroth, Editor-in-Chief,  View on Instagram Under Elaine Welteroth ’s leadership, has seen wild success. She’s not only increased readership, but also has pushed to cover topics outside of simply fashion, including politics and social activism. On top of all that she’s also the youngest EIC in Conde Nast history. Franchesca Ramsey, Comedian/TV Host Franchesca Ramsey is a TV host, podcaster, comedian, and basically jack of all trades. She started as a YouTuber who discussed current events in a humorous but socially responsible way. Her breakout hit “ Shit White Girls Say… to Black Girls ” racked up over 11 million views. After multiple successes garnered her attention — she was able to pivot into hosting her own MTV web series . Last year, Ramsey was also featured on Comedy Central’s as a writer and contributor. Michaela Coel, Poet/Singer-Songwriter/Screenwriter/Actress Michaela Coel is a singer-songwriter, screenwriter, poet, and probably a dozen other things too. Most recently she received two BAFTA (British Academy of Film and Television Arts) awards for Best Female Performance in a Comedy and Breakthrough Talent for , a sitcom inspired by her play . Bozoma Saint John, Head of Global Consumer Marketing at Apple Music  View on Instagram Bozoma Saint John is a marketing executive at Apple Music. People have been paying attention to Saint John behind the scenes for decades now, but she also proved that she can command an audience as well. As last year’s Apple Developer’s conference, she got a crowd of 1,000-plus to all rap to Sugar Hill Gang’s “Rapper’s Delight” as a promo for Apple Music. Before Apple, Saint John led Pepsi into “music festival-based marketing” and also helped the company secure a $50 million contract with Beyoncé. Angelica Nwandu, Founder of The Shade Room Angelica Nwandu is the founder of The Shade Room , a social media-based news organization that provides up-the-minute “tea” on celebrities. The Shade Room boasts over 8 million followers on Instagram alone and posts multiple posts every day, every hour. Nwandu was included on ’ “30 Under 30” list in 2016. Crissle, Radio and Podcast Host  View on Instagram Chances are if you’re a podcast listener, you’ve heard Crissle on , a wildly popular weekly podcast she co-hosts with best friend Kid Fury. Beyond , Crissles is a host of her own Beats One show, a Twitter superstar , a writer, and comedian. Chef Resha, Chef  View on Instagram Chef Resha is a self-taught private chef with a huge following on social media. She travels around cooking for meals for her high-end celebrity clients. Jamilah Lemieux, Writer, Editor, Speaker Jamilah Lemieux is an advocate. An advocate for social justice, the underrepresented, and LGBT rights. She’s also a writer, editor, and newbie media executive. Her work has appeared all over the internet — including , , , , and . In addition to her writing, Lemieux’s social media prowess is unrivaled, her Twitter is expert level. In fact, listed her as one of the most influential women on Twitter. Beyond that she received the Maggie Award for Excellence in Commentary from Planned Parenthood. Currently she’s bossing it up as the VP of news and men’s programming for Interactive One. Yvonne Orji, Actor Yvonne Orji broke out in 2016 as Issa Rae’s co-star in . Her character was relatable, lovable, and maybe just a little over-the-top (but in a good way). Orji was born in Nigeria and grew up in Maryland, and she has a master’s degree in public health from George Washington University. Her parents encouraged her to be a doctor, lawyer, or another more traditional profession —but Orji had other ideas and moved to NYC after grad school to pursue comedy. Her intuition paid off, and now she’s on her way to stardom. Myleik Teele, CEO and Founder of CurlBox  View on Instagram Myleik Teele is the founder and CEO of CurlBox, a monthly subscription box that provides women with curly hair with roughly four different products. Through CurlBox, Teele has secured partnership deals with huge companies including Proctor & Gamble, Carol’s Daughter, Walmart, Target, and Shea Moisture. Ursula Stephen, Celebrity Hairstylist Brooklyn-based Ursula Stephen is a celebrity hairstylist who has worked with the likes of Rihanna, Naomie Harris, Laverne Cox, Mary J. Blige, and countless others. Stephen specializes in African-American hair, and her work has been featured in various magazines and on the big and small screens. Jenna Wortham, Staff Writer, Jenna Wortham is an award-winning journalist who is currently a staff writer at the and co-host of podcast . She’s worked for the Times company for nearly 10 years, where her work has evolved from technology reporting to writing on culture, music, women’s issues, emojis as art, and a host of other subjects. Luvvie Ajayi, Best-Selling Author, Speaker, and Activist Luvvie Ajayi is a best-selling author and blogger, and former marketing and digital strategy associate. Most recently Ajayi bossed up when it was announced that Shonda Rhimes had acquired the rights to adapt Ajayi’s best-seller into a cable comedy series. Ava DuVernay, Director and Screenwriter The boss of all bosses, Ava DuVernay is a director, screenwriter, and film distributor. She’s best known for becoming the first African-American to win Best Director at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival. Besides that, she directed the Golden Globe-nominated film , making her the first black female director to be nominated in the Best Director category. Now Ava is currently directing the action movie , a film whose budget reportedly exceeds $100 million, making her the first black woman to direct a film of that magnitude. DuVernay is steadily evolving with no signs of slowing down. Shonda Rhimes, Producer, Screenwriter, and Author Shonda Rhimes is the queen of television. The producer, screenwriter, and author is at the helm of popular current mainstream TV shows and , and is the executive producer of and . She owns her own production company, Shondaland, and serves as chair and CEO. There honestly aren’t enough words to describe how much black girl magic Shonda is full of, but her storied career speaks volumes. Simone Oliver, Digital Director, veteran Simone Oliver left the iconic paper after 13 years to join in 2016. Before Allure, Oliver started the ’ very first Instagram account, @nytfashion. At , Oliver has contributed to inclusion of more diverse coverage of all shades and shapes. Cardi B, Actress, Social Media Star, Rapper Cardi B, star of reality TV show , has millions of followers on Instagram, and is now a front row regular at fashion shows. She even had a cameo on . In addition to all that, she has a budding rapping career, with a mixtape under her belt — and much more to come. Cardi B is the definition of turning nothing into something, and will no doubt continue to flourish. Kahlana Barfield Brown, Editor-at-Large,  View on Instagram Kahlana Barfield Brown is the blueprint for hard work, dedication, and fabulousness. She started out as an intern in the media industry, working her way up to her current role as editor-at-large at — where she bops around the globe from fashion week to fashion week and interviews celebs, influencers, and more. Her advice as told to for people trying to do what she does is simple: Have patience and dedication. “A lot of times young girls are impatient and they want it to happen so quickly,” she says. “They try it and if it’s not happening fast enough they move on to something else.”   The 22 Best Moments From The 2017 Oscar Awards    Here's The Exact Moment Emma Stone And Ryan Gosling...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Frazer Harrison / Frederick M. Brown / Instagram / Getty Images / Via Alice Mongkongllite / BuzzFeed ID: 10579567

1. Issa Rae, Actor/Writer/Director Frazer Harrison / Getty Images Issa Rae premiered her very own HBO original series, Insecure, last year to much fanfare and to many a “yaaass.” The show was well-received for its relatability, hilarity, awkwardness, and overall realness. Issa’s hard work paid off in the form of a Golden Globe nomination for Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series – Musical or Comedy. HBO green-lit Insecure’s second season and fans are waiting with bated breath. ID: 10537689

2. Melina Matsoukas, Music Video Director Frederick M. Brown / Getty Images Melina Matsoukas directed the videos for Beyoncé’s “Formation,” Rihanna’s “We Found Love,” and a host of other popular mega-hits. When she’s not bringing music to life, the two-time Grammy winner is directing popular TV commercials. Matsoukas also served as executive producer on Insecure with Issa Rae, proving that her talent for music videos translates perfectly to the small screen. ID: 10537856

3. Yara Shahidi, Actor/Model Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @yarashahidi Seventeen-year-old Yara Shahidi plays the role of Zoey on Blackish. The show has had a whirlwind of a year, receiving award nominations and accolades. Shahidi also recently signed a modeling deal with New York Women’s Management with the focus of helping spread the notion of diversity. She told Vogue last year, “I think it is part of our duty as content creators and people within the entertainment industry to challenge stereotypes.” ID: 10578168

4. Shiona Turini, Fashion Collaborator Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @shionat Shiona Turini doesn’t like to be called a stylist. Instead she wants to be known as a “fashion collaborator.” That’s what she told the New York Times after helping to style and outfit Solange for two music videos (“Don’t Touch My Hair” and “Cranes in the Sky”) off her most recent album, A Seat at the Table. Now a freelancer, Turini has worked for a host of high-profile magazines, including W, Teen Vogue, CR Fashion Book, and Cosmopolitan. ID: 10538076

5. Elaine Welteroth, Editor-in-Chief, Teen Vogue Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @elainewelteroth Under Elaine Welteroth’s leadership, Teen Vogue has seen wild success. She’s not only increased readership, but also has pushed to cover topics outside of simply fashion, including politics and social activism. On top of all that she’s also the youngest EIC in Conde Nast history. ID: 10537923

6. Franchesca Ramsey, Comedian/TV Host Jamie Mccarthy / Getty Images Franchesca Ramsey is a TV host, podcaster, comedian, and basically jack of all trades. She started as a YouTuber who discussed current events in a humorous but socially responsible way. Her breakout hit “Shit White Girls Say… to Black Girls” racked up over 11 million views. After multiple successes garnered her attention — she was able to pivot into hosting her own MTV web series Decoded. Last year, Ramsey was also featured on Comedy Central’s The Nightly Show With Larry Wilmore as a writer and contributor. ID: 10538393

7. Michaela Coel, Poet/Singer-Songwriter/Screenwriter/Actress John Phillips / Getty Images Michaela Coel is a singer-songwriter, screenwriter, poet, and probably a dozen other things too. Most recently she received two BAFTA (British Academy of Film and Television Arts) awards for Best Female Performance in a Comedy and Breakthrough Talent for Chewing Gum, a sitcom inspired by her play Chewing Gum Diaries. ID: 10538479

8. Bozoma Saint John, Head of Global Consumer Marketing at Apple Music Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @badassboz Bozoma Saint John is a marketing executive at Apple Music. People have been paying attention to Saint John behind the scenes for decades now, but she also proved that she can command an audience as well. As last year’s Apple Developer’s conference, she got a crowd of 1,000-plus to all rap to Sugar Hill Gang’s “Rapper’s Delight” as a promo for Apple Music. Before Apple, Saint John led Pepsi into “music festival-based marketing” and also helped the company secure a $50 million contract with Beyoncé. ID: 10538557

9. Angelica Nwandu, Founder of The Shade Room Ysa Perez for BuzzFeed News Angelica Nwandu is the founder of The Shade Room, a social media-based news organization that provides up-the-minute “tea” on celebrities. The Shade Room boasts over 8 million followers on Instagram alone and posts multiple posts every day, every hour. Nwandu was included on Forbes’ “30 Under 30” list in 2016. ID: 10538465

10. Crissle, Radio and Podcast Host Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @crissle Chances are if you’re a podcast listener, you’ve heard Crissle on The Read, a wildly popular weekly podcast she co-hosts with best friend Kid Fury. Beyond The Read, Crissles is a host of her own Beats One show, a Twitter superstar, a writer, and comedian. ID: 10538386

11. Chef Resha, Chef Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @chefresha Chef Resha is a self-taught private chef with a huge following on social media. She travels around cooking for meals for her high-end celebrity clients. ID: 10537985

12. Jamilah Lemieux, Writer, Editor, Speaker Alberto E. Rodriguez / Getty Images Jamilah Lemieux is an advocate. An advocate for social justice, the underrepresented, and LGBT rights. She’s also a writer, editor, and newbie media executive. Her work has appeared all over the internet — including The Washington Post, Essence, Jet, Black Enterprise, and Jezebel. In addition to her writing, Lemieux’s social media prowess is unrivaled, her Twitter is expert level. In fact, Fortune listed her as one of the most influential women on Twitter. Beyond that she received the Maggie Award for Excellence in Commentary from Planned Parenthood. Currently she’s bossing it up as the VP of news and men’s programming for Interactive One. ID: 10538292

13. Yvonne Orji, Actor Paras Griffin / Getty Images Yvonne Orji broke out in 2016 as Issa Rae’s co-star in Insecure. Her character was relatable, lovable, and maybe just a little over-the-top (but in a good way). Orji was born in Nigeria and grew up in Maryland, and she has a master’s degree in public health from George Washington University. Her parents encouraged her to be a doctor, lawyer, or another more traditional profession —but Orji had other ideas and moved to NYC after grad school to pursue comedy. Her intuition paid off, and now she’s on her way to stardom. ID: 10538567

14. Myleik Teele, CEO and Founder of CurlBox Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @myleik Myleik Teele is the founder and CEO of CurlBox, a monthly subscription box that provides women with curly hair with roughly four different products. Through CurlBox, Teele has secured partnership deals with huge companies including Proctor & Gamble, Carol’s Daughter, Walmart, Target, and Shea Moisture. ID: 10538040

15. Ursula Stephen, Celebrity Hairstylist Donald Bowers / Getty Images Brooklyn-based Ursula Stephen is a celebrity hairstylist who has worked with the likes of Rihanna, Naomie Harris, Laverne Cox, Mary J. Blige, and countless others. Stephen specializes in African-American hair, and her work has been featured in various magazines and on the big and small screens. ID: 10537880

16. Jenna Wortham, Staff Writer, New York Times Magazine Kimberly White Jenna Wortham is an award-winning journalist who is currently a staff writer at the New York Times Magazine and co-host of podcast Still Processing. She’s worked for the Times company for nearly 10 years, where her work has evolved from technology reporting to writing on culture, music, women’s issues, emojis as art, and a host of other subjects. ID: 10537882

17. Luvvie Ajayi, Best-Selling Author, Speaker, and Activist Rachel Murray / Getty Images Luvvie Ajayi is a New York Times best-selling author and blogger, and former marketing and digital strategy associate. Most recently Ajayi bossed up when it was announced that Shonda Rhimes had acquired the rights to adapt Ajayi’s best-seller I’m Judging You into a cable comedy series. ID: 10538284

18. Ava DuVernay, Director and Screenwriter Frederick M. Brown / Getty Images The boss of all bosses, Ava DuVernay is a director, screenwriter, and film distributor. She’s best known for becoming the first African-American to win Best Director at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival. Besides that, she directed the Golden Globe-nominated film Selma, making her the first black female director to be nominated in the Best Director category. Now Ava is currently directing the action movie A Wrinkle in Time, a film whose budget reportedly exceeds $100 million, making her the first black woman to direct a film of that magnitude. DuVernay is steadily evolving with no signs of slowing down. ID: 10538333

19. Shonda Rhimes, Producer, Screenwriter, and Author Jamie Mccarthy / Getty Images Shonda Rhimes is the queen of television. The producer, screenwriter, and author is at the helm of popular current mainstream TV shows Grey’s Anatomy and Scandal, and is the executive producer of How to Get Away With Murder and The Catch. She owns her own production company, Shondaland, and serves as chair and CEO. There honestly aren’t enough words to describe how much black girl magic Shonda is full of, but her storied career speaks volumes. ID: 10538340

20. Simone Oliver, Digital Director, Allure Twitter: @SimoneSOliver New York Times veteran Simone Oliver left the iconic paper after 13 years to join Allure in 2016. Before Allure, Oliver started the Times’ very first Instagram account, @nytfashion. At Allure, Oliver has contributed to inclusion of more diverse coverage of all shades and shapes. ID: 10538442

21. Cardi B, Actress, Social Media Star, Rapper Theo Wargo / Getty Images Cardi B, star of reality TV show Love and Hip Hop: New York, has millions of followers on Instagram, and is now a front row regular at fashion shows. She even had a cameo on Being Mary Jane. In addition to all that, she has a budding rapping career, with a mixtape under her belt — and much more to come. Cardi B is the definition of turning nothing into something, and will no doubt continue to flourish. ID: 10537847