'I've never seen a war criminal show remorse' says Nazi hunter on the trail of last Holocaust perpetrators
'I've never seen a war criminal show remorse' says Nazi hunter on the trail of last Holocaust perpetrators
fraim Zuroff was poring over microfilm deep in the bowels of Yad Vashem, Israel’s national Holocaust memorial, when the breakthrough came. It was 1986 and the American-born Israeli was looking at the Red Cross’ records of the millions of people who moved across Europe in the aftermath of the Second World War. Many of the names on the 16 million index cards belonged to Jewish concentration camp survivors. But as Mr Zuroff looked closer he realised that the records might also include their captors. With his heart racing, he started to compare the Red Cross files with a list of 49 wanted Nazi war criminals. After just a few minutes he had found 16 of them, including details of where they moved after the war. “That was it,” he said. “That was the moment I went from researcher to Nazi hunter.” For the past 31 years, Mr Zuroff has led a global hunt for the men and women responsible for carrying...

Efraim Zuroff was poring over microfilm deep in the bowels of Yad Vashem, Israel’s national Holocaust memorial, when the breakthrough came.

It was 1986 and the American-born Israeli was looking at the Red Cross’ records of the millions of people who moved across Europe in the aftermath of the Second World War.

Many of the names on the 16 million index cards belonged to Jewish concentration camp survivors. But as Mr Zuroff looked closer he realised that the records might also include their captors.

With his heart racing, he started to compare the Red Cross files with a list of 49 wanted Nazi war criminals. After just a few minutes he had found 16 of them, including details of where they moved after the war.

“That was it,” he said. “That was the moment I went from researcher to Nazi hunter.”

For the past 31 years, Mr Zuroff has led a global hunt for the men and women responsible for carrying...