Wallace Pushes Lewandowski on Whether Media Attacks Affect Trump's Agenda

Wallace Pushes Lewandowski on Whether Media Attacks Affect Trump's Agenda // // // // // Former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski joined "Fox News Sunday" with Chris Wallace to discuss the president's contentious relationship with the mainstream media. Wallace said the past few weeks have been dominated by Trump's attacks on the media, the intelligence community and his opponents. He asked Lewandowski if these attacks are becoming a distraction to the president's actual agenda. "The media continues to run a false narrative about this president," said Lewandowski, adding that Trump is fine with stories attacking him as long as they are reported fairly and accurately. Lewandowski went on to list off the various accomplishments so far during Trump's first few weeks in office. FAKE NEWS media knowingly doesn't tell the truth. A great danger to our country. The failing @nytimes has become a joke. Likewise @CNN . Sad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2017 "They have their own agenda," he said of the media. "And this is the first president in a lifetime that has the ability to fight back through his almost hundred million people who follow him through the various mediums of social media. "He has to do this to get the real story out to the American people." Watch Lewandowski's full interview with Wallace above.

Former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski joined "Fox News Sunday" with Chris Wallace to discuss the president's contentious relationship with the mainstream media.

Wallace said the past few weeks have been dominated by Trump's attacks on the media, the intelligence community and his opponents. He asked Lewandowski if these attacks are becoming a distraction to the president's actual agenda.

New York Times TV Ad Responds to Trump's 'Failing' Label

Gutfeld: Trump's CPAC Speech Full of 'Memorable Burns'

Treasury Sec. Mnuchin: Individual, Corporate Tax Reform Is No. 1 Priority

"The media continues to run a false narrative about this president," said Lewandowski, adding that Trump is fine with stories attacking him as long as they are reported fairly and accurately.

Lewandowski went on to list off the various accomplishments so far during Trump's first few weeks in office.

FAKE NEWS media knowingly doesn't tell the truth. A great danger to our country. The failing @nytimes has become a joke. Likewise @CNN. Sad! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 25, 2017

"They have their own agenda," he said of the media. "And this is the first president in a lifetime that has the ability to fight back through his almost hundred million people who follow him through the various mediums of social media.

"He has to do this to get the real story out to the American people."

Watch Lewandowski's full interview with Wallace above.

Watters Asks PA College Students About 'White Privilege' Pin Campaign

Trump Tweets That He Will Be Skipping White House Correspondents' Dinner

CPAC Straw Poll: 86 Percent Approve of Job Trump Is Doing So Far as President