Father of dead Navy SEAL refused to meet Trump at ceremony
Father of dead Navy SEAL refused to meet Trump at ceremony
Shares                The father of a Navy SEAL killed during a raid in Yemen is demanding an investigation into its planning and criticized the Trump administration for its timing.  Bill Owens told The Miami Herald ( http://hrld.us/2lTYhPB ) in a story published Sunday that he refused to meet with President Donald Trump when both came to Dover Air Force Base to receive the casket carrying his son, William "Ryan" Owens. The younger Owens was the lone U.S. fatality in the Jan. 27 raid on a suspected al-Qaida compound. The elder Owens said the family requested a private ceremony and questioned why the president approved the raid a week after taking office.  White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders told ABC's "This Week" on Sunday she believes the president would support an investigation of the raid. ——— Information from: The Miami Herald, http://www.herald.com  Shares                  Father of dead Navy SEAL refused to meet Trump at ceremony   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   'People's Court' Judge Joseph Wapner dead at 97   Democrats' new chair on electoral mistakes: 'We ignored rural swaths of America'   Pelosi: Trump 'has nothing to show' for 1st month in office except 'fear'   Muhammad Ali's son asked, 'Are you Muslim?' by border agents   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera   Foreign minister welcomes Iran Oscar for best foreign film   Sessions' tough on crime talk could lead to fuller prisons   S. Carolina law makes it tough to lower Confederate flags   Taliban leader encourages people to plant trees   Malaysia: Poisoning of Kim caused paralysis, quick death   Egypt's Christians flee terror in north Sinai security void   Sharp vision: New glasses help the legally blind see   Letter-writing former Iran president pens dispatch to Trump   Israel to Amazon: Stop selling Holocaust-denying literature   GOP congressman says no room for compromise in repealing Obamacare   Report warns of state money fallout from health law repeal   Congress returns, with health care, Supreme Court on agenda   Suspect in Mardi Gras parade crash expected to face at least 19 more charges   Suspected drunk driver plows into New Orleans parade crowd, 28 injured   8-year-old fatally shot in Houston after car crash   Mahershala Ali thanks wife, who gave birth days ago, for carrying him through awards season   Viola Davis wins best supporting actress Oscar for her role in 'Fences'   Poll: Israelis believe Gaza policies hurting security   Oscars 2017: What you didn't see on TV   Actor Bill Paxton dies at age 61   'The Salesman' wins best foreign language Oscar   Oscars 'In Memoriam' remembers Debbie Reynolds and Carrie Fisher

The father of a Navy SEAL killed during a raid in Yemen is demanding an investigation into its planning and criticized the Trump administration for its timing.

Bill Owens told The Miami Herald ( http://hrld.us/2lTYhPB ) in a story published Sunday that he refused to meet with President Donald Trump when both came to Dover Air Force Base to receive the casket carrying his son, William "Ryan" Owens. The younger Owens was the lone U.S. fatality in the Jan. 27 raid on a suspected al-Qaida compound.

The elder Owens said the family requested a private ceremony and questioned why the president approved the raid a week after taking office.

White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders told ABC's "This Week" on Sunday she believes the president would support an investigation of the raid.

———

Information from: The Miami Herald, http://www.herald.com