European Tourism Interest In America Plummets 12% Following Travel Ban
European Tourism Interest In America Plummets 12% Following Travel Ban
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alexandra Talty       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. America, the not-so great. Following President Donald Trump's controversial executive order on immigration in late January, tourism interest to America has plummeted. Paris-based flight comparison site liligo reported an 11.6% decline in European searches to the United States in the weeks following the so-called travel ban. Interest in American tourism plummets following President Trump's controversial travel ban. Photo credit:TASOS KATOPODIS/AFP/Getty Images. “Historically, it should be a peak period,” said Eric . “We do see a very clear negative trend line.” Using data from the UK, Italy, Spain, France and Germany, the study looked at searches from January 1 – February 8, comparing them with data from the previous year. Italy reported the greatest decline, with a 17% decrease in search following the ban. Interest from Germany dropped 14%. The site receives over half a million searches a day. In addition to suspending the United States' refugee program, the immigration order targeted nationals from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, temporarily barring them from entry into the United States. These countries were chosen as high-risk for terrorist threats , despite the fact that between 1975 and 2015, foreign nationals from these seven Muslim-majority countries have killed zero Americans on US soil, according to the Cato Institute . It was unclear how the order applied to green card holders or dual citizens, leading to mass confusion and disorganization at major airports around the country. The ban's implementation was deemed a disaster . “I have students and co-workers who want to travel to the US, but now are thinking twice,” said Nicole Brewer, an American teacher living and working in Oman. Brewer co-founded the website, iluv2globetrot , an online forum and resource for expats.“Even fellow Americans like myself are worried about going back home while living in the Middle East and having loads of stamps throughout the region in our passports ."    Trending on {{channel_name}}

America, the not-so great.

Following President Donald Trump's controversial executive order on immigration in late January, tourism interest to America has plummeted. Paris-based flight comparison site liligo reported an 11.6% decline in European searches to the United States in the weeks following the so-called travel ban.

“Historically, it should be a peak period,” said Eric Urbain, liligo’s U.S. Marketing Director. “We do see a very clear negative trend line.”

Using data from the UK, Italy, Spain, France and Germany, the study looked at searches from January 1 – February 8, comparing them with data from the previous year. Italy reported the greatest decline, with a 17% decrease in search following the ban. Interest from Germany dropped 14%. The site receives over half a million searches a day.

In addition to suspending the United States' refugee program, the immigration order targeted nationals from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, temporarily barring them from entry into the United States. These countries were chosen as high-risk for terrorist threats, despite the fact that between 1975 and 2015, foreign nationals from these seven Muslim-majority countries have killed zero Americans on US soil, according to the Cato Institute.

It was unclear how the order applied to green card holders or dual citizens, leading to mass confusion and disorganization at major airports around the country. The ban's implementation was deemed a disaster.

“I have students and co-workers who want to travel to the US, but now are thinking twice,” said Nicole Brewer, an American teacher living and working in Oman. Brewer co-founded the website, iluv2globetrot, an online forum and resource for expats.“Even fellow Americans like myself are worried about going back home while living in the Middle East and having loads of stamps throughout the region in our passports ."