Easy listening and upbeat music makes you IMMORAL
Could listening to Taylor Swift make you immoral?


Easy listening and upbeat music may have a hidden dark side, new research has suggested.

Scientists have found that listening to happy music can increase people's willingness to hurt other people and bend what they deem morally acceptable.

They say the findings reveal just how powerful music can be when it comes to influencing our behaviour.

Scroll down for video

Easy listening and upbeat music such as by Taylor Swift (pictured) may have a hidden dark side, new research has suggested. Scientists have found that listening to happy music can increase people's willingness to hurt other people

WHAT DID THEY DO? In one of the tasks, scientists asked volunteers to listen to music and then asked them to tell a student they could not complete their degree. When James Brown's hit 'I Got You (I Feel Good)' was playing in the background 82 per cent agreed to do it. The majority refused when no music was playing. In another task scientists asked volunteers to forge documents. Those who listened to Mozart in the background were more accepting of cheating in this way.

In a series of tests, volunteers were asked to do the researchers a favour by telling a student they could not take part in work they needed to do in order to complete their course.

When James Brown's hit 'I Got You (I Feel Good)' or Mozart's 'A Little Night Music' were playing the background, the volunteers were more likely to agree.

It contrasts with the idea that aggressive music like metal and rap may encourage violence among its fans, instead suggesting upbeat music is also a risk.

Dr Naomi Ziv, a psychologist at the College of Management Academic Studies in Rishon LeZion, Israel, who led the study, said upbeat music seems to make people more accepting of what they are told or being asked to do, even if it goes against their morals.

She warns the effect could be exploited by politicians or radical groups hoping to spread messages of hate or encourage people to harm others.

She said: 'In politics it is used all the time to create enthusiasm and agreement.

'There are many social contexts when people are together, singing together or hearing music together it creates a feeling of group cohesion and agreement.

'The message that is put forward is accepted more easily.

'In laboratory situations, we are limited by ethics and the context, so we don't know how far this could go. In real life I think it can go to extremes.'

Volunteers were asked to do the researchers a favour by telling a student they could not take part in work they needed to do in order to complete their course. When James Brown's hit 'I Got You (I Feel Good)' were playing the background, the volunteers were more likely to agree

MUSIC IS AN ADDICTIVE PLEASURE Researchers have found that the part of our brains that enjoys music is intrinsically linked to the part that feels pleasure from sex, recreational drugs, and food. Researchers from McGill University in Montreal found a connection between pleasure-boosting opioids in the brain and enjoyment in music. Those who have a deep passion for music could be more likely to get a deeper pleasure from sex, recreational drugs or food. 'This is the first demonstration that the brain's own opioids are directly involved in musical pleasure,' says cognitive psychologist Dr Daniel Levitin, senior author of the paper.

In a series of studies published in the journal Psychology of Music, scientists asked volunteers to listen to fictional radio adverts that offered them forged documents to get a higher pension.

Those who listened to the advert with Mozart playing in the background were more accepting of cheating in this way.

In another test, volunteers were asked to perform a grammar test and were then asked if they could do the scientists a favour.

They were either asked to tell a student that they could not take part in a key part of their course or could not have material from a series of lectures they missed due to illness.

In both cases they were told the student needed these to complete their course and would not graduate without them.

The researchers asked the participants to break the news to the student simply because they 'didn't feel like' doing it themselves.

While most people would balk at doing someone else's dirty work, surprisingly when the James Brown hit was playing in the background, 82 per cent agreed to do it.

In contrast, the majority of those asked to do the favour when no music was playing refused.

'What is most concerning is that this was just background music - they were not actively listening,' said Dr Ziv. 'The favour involved hurting someone else and many of them said they would do it.'

Volunteers who listened to fictional radio adverts with Mozart playing were more willing to forge documents (stock image of Mozart statue)

She said that this may explain why music has become a popular tool in the advertising industry and in shops.

She said: 'Music has a strong effect without people really being aware that is happening. It works without you noticing it, which is maybe its power.'

The effect, however, could be far more serious.

Dr Ziv notes that during the Rwandan genocides, music played a key role.

Jason McCoy, a musicologist at the Dallas Baptist University in Texas, has studied how music on the radio may have been used to support messages of hate broadcast during the massacres of 800,000 people by Hutu militias in 1994.

'Music helped to normalize the narrative that became the emotional and rational basis for genocide,' he explains.

'It was one component of a total propaganda effort that, in conjunction with actual on-the- ground circumstances, had the effect of instilling fear in many Hutu and creating a sense of unity among them.'