Vandals Damage Hundreds of Headstones at Jewish Cemetery in Philadelphia
Vandals Damage Hundreds of Headstones at Jewish Cemetery
Vandals Damage Hundreds of Headstones at Jewish Cemetery in Philadelphia A rabbi who walked through the cemetery told NBC10 he counted 460 headstones that were toppled or damaged. By David Chang

After a rash of anti-semetic incidents across the country, a Philadelphia cemetery has been vandalized. Hundreds of headstones were toppled over. NBC10's Drew Smith reports on the incident.

Vandals targeted a Jewish cemetery in the Wissinoming section of Philadelphia, knocking over hundreds of headstones.

Police responded to a report of vandalism at Mount Carmel Cemetery on Sunday at 9:40 a.m. When they arrived, they were met by a man who told them three headstones belonging to his relatives were knocked over and damaged, authorities said.

Police told NBC10 at least 100 more headstones were knocked over. A rabbi who walked through the cemetery told NBC10 he counted 460 headstones that were toppled or damaged.

"This is not just a random act," said Rabbi Shawn Zevit of Mishkan Shalom. "To topple so many headstones clearly is a concerted effort with intent."

No arrests have been made and police have not released information on any suspects. The Anti-Defamation League is offering a $10,000 reward for information leading to an arrest. The Fraternal Order of Police is also offering a $3,000 reward, bringing the total to $13,000.

Local rabbis have visited the cemetery throughout the day to comfort those who have loved ones buried there.

"I'm devastated by this," said Janice Wilson of Overbrook. "I don't know whether to cry or to scream."

Police believe the vandalism occurred between late Saturday night and Sunday morning.

"My heart breaks for the families who found their loved ones' headstones toppled this morning," Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney wrote in a released statement. "We are doing all we can to find the perpetrators who desecrated this final resting place, and they will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Hate is not permissible in Philadelphia. I encourage Philadelphians to stand with our Jewish brothers and sisters and to show them that we are the City of Brotherly Love and Sisterly Affection."

Governor Tom Wolf also called the vandalism a "cowardly, disturbing act."

"We must find those responsible and hold accountable," Wolf wrote.

An organizer launched a GoFundMe page to raise money for damage repair.

Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Emmanuel Nahshon and the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect condemned the vandalism.

Last week vandals damaged 154 headstones at a Jewish cemetery in University City, Missouri. The incident sparked national outrage and a crowdfunding campaign that raised around $75,000 for repairs.

More than 10 Jewish Community Centers across the country were also evacuated last week due to bomb threats.

Vandals Target Jewish Cemetery in Philadelphia

Vandals Target Jewish Cemetery in Philadelphia