Another Jewish Cemetery Was the Target of an Alleged Anti-Semitic Attack

Another Jewish Cemetery Was the Target of an Alleged Anti-Semitic Attack // // // // Less than a week after dozens of gravestones were vandalized at a Jewish cemetery in St. Louis , a similar incident took place in Philadelphia. Dozens, if not hundreds, of headstones at Mt. Carmel Cemetery, a Jewish cemetery in the Wissinoming section of Philadelphia, were found broken and overturned Sunday morning. Police said this was an act of vandalism, according to ABC 6 . The Jewish Federation of Greater Philadelphia said it would begin raising funds to help repair the cemetery. After the incident at the St. Louis cemetery -- which contains the remains of Holocaust survivors -- a Muslim-American group raised more than $75,000 in less than a day to offer assistance. Recently, Jewish centers across the country have been experiencing an increased number of threats. Speaking last week at the National Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington, D.C., President Donald Trump commented on this uptick in anti-Semitic attacks . "The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil," he said. Watch the local report above, and share your thoughts with us in the comments section.

Less than a week after dozens of gravestones were vandalized at a Jewish cemetery in St. Louis, a similar incident took place in Philadelphia.

Dozens, if not hundreds, of headstones at Mt. Carmel Cemetery, a Jewish cemetery in the Wissinoming section of Philadelphia, were found broken and overturned Sunday morning.

Police said this was an act of vandalism, according to ABC 6.

NH Gun Owners No Longer Need License to Carry Concealed Weapon

New York Times TV Ad Responds to Trump's 'Failing' Label

Trump Tweets That He Will Be Skipping White House Correspondents' Dinner

The Jewish Federation of Greater Philadelphia said it would begin raising funds to help repair the cemetery. After the incident at the St. Louis cemetery -- which contains the remains of Holocaust survivors -- a Muslim-American group raised more than $75,000 in less than a day to offer assistance.

Recently, Jewish centers across the country have been experiencing an increased number of threats.

Speaking last week at the National Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington, D.C., President Donald Trump commented on this uptick in anti-Semitic attacks.

"The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil," he said.

Watch the local report above, and share your thoughts with us in the comments section.

Rory McIlroy: Golfing with Trump Not an 'Endorsement' or 'Political Statement'

George Clooney Slams POTUS During César Award Acceptance Speech

Witches Cast Mass Spell with Hopes of Removing Trump from Office