Bill Paxton, actor in 'Twister' and 'Aliens,' dies at 61
Bill Paxton, actor in 'Twister' and 'Aliens,' dies at 61
Bill Paxton, actor in 'Twister' and 'Aliens,' dies at 61 Updated 2004 GMT (0404 HKT) February 26, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (16 Videos) Story highlights Paxton died in the middle of his first season of the TV series "Training Day" He had more than 90 acting credits and was an "underrated" director Actor Bill Paxton, whose extensive career included films such as "Twister,"  "Aliens" and "Titanic," has died, a representative for his family said in a statement. He was 61. Met Bill Paxton briefly at a con. He was incredibly kind and friendly. It was a nice it's-ok-to-meet-your-heroes moment. 61 is too young. pic.twitter.com/d5FvcWUYGK Devastated by the sudden loss of my close friend and one of the finest actors in the business, Bill Paxton. Renaissance man, raconteur and JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH From Texas upbringing to Hollywood stardom So sad to hear of Bill Paxton. Good guy. Great actor. Proud Texan. Here he is—the kid lifted up—at JFK's hotel the morning of 11.22.63 pic.twitter.com/UqTGStLmo6 Bill Paxton could play any role, but he was best at being Bill - a great human being with a huge heart. My thoughts are with his family. We'll miss ya, Bill Paxton. https://t.co/nExBEptVAV  pic.twitter.com/mmY6RBTfks He made this movie great--he acted his heart out. What a talented man. My thoughts are with his family. pic.twitter.com/rUcmmYME3h CNN's Sandra Gonzalez and Steve Forrest contributed to this report.

Story highlights Paxton died in the middle of his first season of the TV series "Training Day"

He had more than 90 acting credits and was an "underrated" director

(CNN) Actor Bill Paxton, whose extensive career included films such as "Twister," "Aliens" and "Titanic," has died, a representative for his family said in a statement. He was 61.

"It is with heavy hearts we share the news that Bill Paxton has passed away due to complications from surgery," the statement said.

"Bill began his career in Hollywood working on films in the art department and went on to have an illustrious career spanning four decades as a beloved and prolific actor and filmmaker. ... We ask to please respect the family's wish for privacy as they mourn the loss of their adored husband and father."

Moments after news of Paxton's death broke, social media lit up with tributes to the versatile actor.

Met Bill Paxton briefly at a con. He was incredibly kind and friendly. It was a nice it's-ok-to-meet-your-heroes moment. 61 is too young. pic.twitter.com/d5FvcWUYGK — Dan Slott (@DanSlott) February 26, 2017

Actor Rob Lowe called Paxton a dear friend and "Renaissance man."

Read More