No 10 policy head George Freeman says disability payments should go to the 'really disabled'- not those who suffer from anxiety
No 10 policy head George Freeman says disability payments should go to the 'really disabled'- not those who suffer from anxiety
he head of Theresa May's policy unit has claimed disability benefits should go to "really disabled people" rather than those who are "taking pills at home, who suffer from anxiety". George Freeman said it was right to introduce reforms to personal independence payments (PIP), a benefit intended to help people of working age with some of the extra costs caused by a disability. Critics argue that the changes will will reduce the number of people eligible to claim by 160,000 and cut £3.7bn from the benefits bill over the next five years. r Freemman said the "tweaks" to the system were needed to roll back a "bizarre" ruling that claimants with psychological problems, who are unable to travel without help, should be treated in a similar way to those who are blind. However, his comments provoked a furious backlash from Labour MPs and criticism from disability charities. Mr Freeman later Tweeted that he didn't need any "lectures on the damage anxiety does" because he suffered from childhood anxiety and depression himself. They know this will affect ppl w/ PTSD, dementia, schizophrenia, seizures. Tories in the gutter trying to shame those in desperate need https://t.co/FEzosUhsqc As @theresa_may made v clear launching our #MentalHealth Strategy this Gov @Number10gov committed to tackling mental illness inc anxiety: https://t.co/uqkhSUaxg3 e added that Theresa May had made it clear that the government was "committed to tackling mental illness". Speaking last week, Penny Mordaunt, the disabilities minister, said she was reforming the payments to "restore the original aim of the benefit" to make sure the most needy were given support. Speaking on Pienaar's Politics on BBC 5 Live, Mr Freeman said: "These tweaks are actually about rolling back some bizarre decisions by tribunals that now mean benefits are being given to people who are taking pills at home, who suffer from anxiety. "We want to make sure we get the money to the really disabled people who need it." hallenged on his assessment of anxiety, Mr Freeman said: "I total understand anxiety and so does the Prime Minister. We've set out in the mental health strategy how seriously we take it. "My point was that these PIP reforms are partly about rolling back some frankly bizarre decisions in tribunals which have seen money that should go to the most disabled spent on people with really much less urgent conditions." is comments came just months after Mrs May pledged to take action to tackle the “stigma” around mental health problems. John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, told the BBC: “I could not believe that the government sneak out on by-election day an announcement that they’re going to cut £3.6bn from disability benefits. "The Tories are trying to say they’re no longer the nasty party. They are the nasty party.” ebbie Abrahams, the Shadow work and pensions secretary, joined the calls for an immediate apology from Mr Freeman. She said: "Not only does this (his comments) fly in the face of his party's commitment to 'parity of esteem' for people with mental health conditions, but it directly contradicts Theresa May's comments on mental health and two recent tribunal judgements." The disability charity Scope also criticised Mr Freeman's "crude" distinction between physical and mental health and said it was concerned about the Government's "worrying" changes to PIP. A Government source said: "Clearly we think the regulations need updating to restore the original intent of this policy following the tribunal judgments. "Nobody will see a reduction in the amount of PIP they were previously awarded by DWP (the Department for Work and Pensions) and this update will allow the welfare system to target support at those who need it most."

The head of Theresa May's policy unit has claimed disability benefits should go to "really disabled people" rather than those who are "taking pills at home, who suffer from anxiety".

George Freeman said it was right to introduce reforms to personal independence payments (PIP), a benefit intended to help people of working age with some of the extra costs caused by a disability.

Critics argue that the changes will will reduce the number of people eligible to claim by 160,000 and cut £3.7bn from the benefits bill over the next five years.