This $85,000 Gun Has A Piece Of The Statue Of Liberty In It
This $85,000 Gun Has A Piece Of The Statue Of Liberty In It
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Susannah Breslin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Outspoken President Donald Trump supporter, "The Celebrity Apprentice 2" star, and CEO of West Coast Choppers Jesse James is offering Second Amendment fans with plenty of cash to spend a $85,000 gun made with a piece of the Statue of Liberty. The freedom-loving firearm is one of the latest from master fabricator James's Austin, Texas-based Jesse James Firearms Unlimited , which he launched in 2013. The "Lady Liberty" Full Damascus Cisco 1911 's steep price tag is due to the fact that it takes a year to make and some 500 hours of labor. For your money, James notes , you get a firearm that contains "the DNA of America's biggest symbol of freedom," which, he adds, makes it "an Amazing piece of American History." If you want one, though, you better act quick. He's only made three, and he's sold two already. Over email, I asked James how the unique project came to be. A person that will remain anonymous was involved in the restoration [of the Statue of Liberty]. He happened upon a piece of original handrail from around the torch. It was just laying there, so he grabbed it, and it ended up in my hands. How much would you pay for a gun with "DNA of America's biggest symbol of freedom"? (Courtesy of Jesse James Firearms Unlimited) Once I got the original handrail, it was a pretty easy decision/concept. Two of the three are sold. $85,000. I know that seems like a lot, but it takes a full year to make and about 500 hours labor. Everything is going great! "I know that seems like a lot," James says of the $85,000 price tag, but it's a year in the making. (Courtesy of Jesse James Firearms Unlimited) James chronicled part of the creation of the "Lady Liberty" pistols on social media, including the start , the rails , the flattening , and the cutting . The final result generated some 8,600 Instagram likes and enthusiastic comments from those resigned to dreaming of affording it. A closeup shot of the "Lady Liberty" Full Damascus Cisco 1911. (Courtesy of Jesse James Firearms Unlimited) Previously, James has made custom firearms for Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie (hers is engraved "MAMA KNOWS BEST," and his is engraved "BIG PAPA"), Texas Governor Rick Perry (it's got the Texas Seal of the Governor on it), and an heir to the Genovese crime family (it's named "The Godfather"). James has a licensing partnership with the National Rifle Association focused on the lifestyle category, from shirts to bar stools -- NRA Originals . He also sells honey -- Satan's Nectar -- as part of his Jesse James Culinary brand. ("Hell Awaits!" the packaging reads.) And it looks like Jesse James Ammo is up next.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Outspoken President Donald Trump supporter, "The Celebrity Apprentice 2" star, and CEO of West Coast Choppers Jesse James is offering Second Amendment fans with plenty of cash to spend a $85,000 gun made with a piece of the Statue of Liberty.

The freedom-loving firearm is one of the latest from master fabricator James's Austin, Texas-based Jesse James Firearms Unlimited, which he launched in 2013.

The "Lady Liberty" Full Damascus Cisco 1911's steep price tag is due to the fact that it takes a year to make and some 500 hours of labor.

For your money, James notes, you get a firearm that contains "the DNA of America's biggest symbol of freedom," which, he adds, makes it "an Amazing piece of American History."

If you want one, though, you better act quick. He's only made three, and he's sold two already.

Over email, I asked James how the unique project came to be.

How and when did you acquire the original handrail pieces from the Statue of Liberty?

A person that will remain anonymous was involved in the restoration [of the Statue of Liberty]. He happened upon a piece of original handrail from around the torch. It was just laying there, so he grabbed it, and it ended up in my hands.

Why did you decide to put "the DNA of America's biggest symbol of freedom" into a firearm?

Once I got the original handrail, it was a pretty easy decision/concept.

You've made one and are making only two more of these. Has anyone bought one yet?

Two of the three are sold.

How much does the "Lady Liberty" 1911 cost?

$85,000. I know that seems like a lot, but it takes a full year to make and about 500 hours labor.

You appeared on Season 8 of "The Apprentice," and you're an outspoken Trump supporter. How do you see the Trump administration impacting the firearms business?

Everything is going great!

James chronicled part of the creation of the "Lady Liberty" pistols on social media, including the start, the rails, the flattening, and the cutting.

The final result generated some 8,600 Instagram likes and enthusiastic comments from those resigned to dreaming of affording it.

Previously, James has made custom firearms for Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie (hers is engraved "MAMA KNOWS BEST," and his is engraved "BIG PAPA"), Texas Governor Rick Perry (it's got the Texas Seal of the Governor on it), and an heir to the Genovese crime family (it's named "The Godfather").

James has a licensing partnership with the National Rifle Association focused on the lifestyle category, from shirts to bar stools -- NRA Originals.

He also sells honey -- Satan's Nectar -- as part of his Jesse James Culinary brand. ("Hell Awaits!" the packaging reads.)

And it looks like Jesse James Ammo is up next.

Susannah Breslin is a freelance journalist.