Oscars 2017: Complete winners list
Oscars 2017: Complete winners list
Shares               The 89th Academy Awards show was certainly one for the books. After it was all said and done, front-runner "La La Land" won 6 out of its 14 total nominations including best actress and best director. But the most shocking moment of the night went to "Moonlight," which won best picture, after "La La Land" was mistakenly announced. "This is not a joke," a producer from "La La Land" said while standing on stage, correcting the big error. Then, the cast and crew of "Moonlight" eventually took the stage and accepted the award. In addition to the best picture win, "Moonlight's" Mahershala Ali took home his first Oscar for best actor in a supporting role and the film's writers Barry Jenkins and Tarell Alvin McCraney won for best adapted screenplay. "Fences'" Viola Davis also took home her first Oscar for best supporting actress and got an enthusiastic standing ovation from the crowd.     "I became an artist and thank God I did because we are the only profession that celebrates what it means to live a life," she exclaimed while breaking down as she thanked her parents, her sisters and her husband and child. Casey Affleck and Emma Stone chose to pay homage to their fellow nominees. Affleck called Denzel Washington "one of the first people who taught me how to act." Stone said, "it's such an honor to stand beside you!" and added, "Ryan Gosling, thank you for making me laugh and being the greatest partner."    Jeff Bridges - "Hell or High Water" Lucas Hedges – "Manchester by the Sea" Dev Patel - "Lion" Michael Shannon - "Nocturnal Animals"  "I want to thank my wife, who was in her third trimester during awards season... had our daughter 4 days ago." - Mahershala Ali #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/RcLpHWvAvW   "A Man Called Ove" "Star Trek Beyond"  "Allied" "Florence Foster Jenkins" "Jackie" "La La Land"  "Fire at Sea" "I Am Not Your Negro" "Life Animated" "13th"   #Oscar for Best Documentary (Feature) goes to ‘O.J.: Made in America.’ #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/Fy08RLqnoF    "Deepwater Horizon" "Hacksaw Ridge" "La La Land" "Sully"  "Arrival" "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" "La La Land" "13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi"  Naomie Harris — "Moonlight"  Nicole Kidman — "Lion" Octavia Spencer — "Hidden Figures" Michelle Williams — "Manchester by the Sea"  Safe to say @violadavis loves her #Oscar . #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/DGuBoXYXd8   "Land of Mine" (Denmark) "A Man Called Ove" (Sweden) "Tanna" (Australia) "Toni Erdmann" (Germany)  "Blind Vaysha" "Borrowed Time" "Pear Cider and Cigarettes" "Pearl"  "Kubo and the Two Strings" "Moana" "My Life as a Zucchini" "The Red Turtle"   "Arrival" "Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them" "Hail, Caesar!"   "Passengers"  "Deepwater Horizon" "Doctor Strange"  "Kubo and the Two Strings" "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story"  #Oscars for Best Visual Effects goes to ‘The Jungle Book.’ #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/but0YZBzSD   "Arrival"  "La La Land" "Moonlight" "Hell or High Water"  "Ennemis Intérieurs" "La Femme et le TGV" "Silent Nights" "Timecode"  "Extremis" "4.1 Miles" "Joe's Violin" "Watani: My Homeland"  "Arrival" "Lion" "Moonlight" "Silence"  #Oscar for Best Cinematography goes to ‘La La Land.’ #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/eCroPsFHJt    "Lion" "Jackie" "Moonlight" "Passengers"  "Audition (The Fools Who Dream)" — "La La Land" "Can't Stop the Feeling" — "Trolls" "The Empty Chair" — "Jim: The James Foley Story" "How Far I'll Go" — "Moana"  "Hell or High Water" "La La Land" "The Lobster" "20th Century Women"  #Oscar for Best Original Screenplay goes to ‘Manchester by the Sea.’ #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/gEyfZbFNHm   "Arrival" "Fences" "Hidden Figures" "Lion"  "This goes out to all those...who don't see themselves...this is for you." - Tarell Alvin McCraney for 'Moonlight.' #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/11yOftIT4t   Mel Gibson — "Hacksaw Ridge" Barry Jenkins — "Moonlight" Kenneth Lonergan — "Manchester by the Sea" Denis Villeneuve — "Arrival"  Andrew Garfield — "Hacksaw Ridge" Ryan Gosling — "La La Land"  Viggo Mortensen — "Captain Fantastic" Denzel Washington — "Fences"  #Oscar for Best Actor in a Leading Role goes to Casey Affleck for ‘Manchester by the Sea.’ #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/GrzmvUhNOD   Isabelle Huppert — "Elle" Ruth Negga — "Loving"  Natalie Portman — "Jackie"   Meryl Streep — "Florence Foster Jenkins"  "Arrival" "Fences" "Hacksaw Ridge" "Hell or High Water" "Hidden Figures" La La Land "Lion" "Manchester by the Sea"   Shares                  Oscars 2017: Complete winners list   Barry Jenkins, Mahershala Ali and Emma Stone react to Oscars best picture mix-up   Celebrities react to 'Moonlight' actually winning best picture after mix-up   Oscars 2017: What you didn't see on TV   Top moments from the Academy Awards   'White Helmets' filmmakers explain Oscar absences   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Best actress winner Emma Stone thanks 'greatest partner' Ryan Gosling   Best actor winner Casey Affleck pays tribute to Denzel Washington   5 things to know about Oscar winner Damien Chazelle   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera

The 89th Academy Awards show was certainly one for the books. After it was all said and done, front-runner "La La Land" won 6 out of its 14 total nominations including best actress and best director.

But the most shocking moment of the night went to "Moonlight," which won best picture, after "La La Land" was mistakenly announced.

"This is not a joke," a producer from "La La Land" said while standing on stage, correcting the big error. Then, the cast and crew of "Moonlight" eventually took the stage and accepted the award.

In addition to the best picture win, "Moonlight's" Mahershala Ali took home his first Oscar for best actor in a supporting role and the film's writers Barry Jenkins and Tarell Alvin McCraney won for best adapted screenplay.

"Fences'" Viola Davis also took home her first Oscar for best supporting actress and got an enthusiastic standing ovation from the crowd.

"I became an artist and thank God I did because we are the only profession that celebrates what it means to live a life," she exclaimed while breaking down as she thanked her parents, her sisters and her husband and child.

Casey Affleck and Emma Stone chose to pay homage to their fellow nominees. Affleck called Denzel Washington "one of the first people who taught me how to act." Stone said, "it's such an honor to stand beside you!" and added, "Ryan Gosling, thank you for making me laugh and being the greatest partner."

Here's the complete winners list:

Best actor in a supporting role

Mahershala Ali – "Moonlight" -- WINNER

Jeff Bridges - "Hell or High Water"

Lucas Hedges – "Manchester by the Sea"

Dev Patel - "Lion"

Michael Shannon - "Nocturnal Animals"

"I want to thank my wife, who was in her third trimester during awards season... had our daughter 4 days ago." - Mahershala Ali #Oscars pic.twitter.com/RcLpHWvAvW — Good Morning America (@GMA) February 27, 2017

Best makeup and hairstyling

"A Man Called Ove"

"Star Trek Beyond"

"Suicide Squad" -- WINNER

Best costume design

"Allied"

"Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them" -- WINNER

"Florence Foster Jenkins"

"Jackie"

"La La Land"

Best documentary feature

"Fire at Sea"

"I Am Not Your Negro"

"Life Animated"

"13th"

"O.J.: Made in America" -- WINNER

Best sound editing

"Arrival" -- WINNER

"Deepwater Horizon"

"Hacksaw Ridge"

"La La Land"

"Sully"

Best sound mixing

"Arrival"

"Rogue One: A Star Wars Story"

"Hacksaw Ridge" -- WINNER

"La La Land"

"13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi"

Best actress in a supporting role

Viola Davis — "Fences" -- WINNER

Naomie Harris — "Moonlight"

Nicole Kidman — "Lion"

Octavia Spencer — "Hidden Figures"

Michelle Williams — "Manchester by the Sea"

Best foreign language film

"Land of Mine" (Denmark)

"A Man Called Ove" (Sweden)

"The Salesman" (Iran) -- WINNER

"Tanna" (Australia)

"Toni Erdmann" (Germany)

Best animated short film

"Blind Vaysha"

"Borrowed Time"

"Pear Cider and Cigarettes"

"Pearl"

"Piper" -- WINNER

Best animated feature film

"Kubo and the Two Strings"

"Moana"

"My Life as a Zucchini"

"The Red Turtle"

"Zootopia" -- WINNER

Best production design

"Arrival"

"Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them"

"Hail, Caesar!"

"La La Land" -- WINNER

"Passengers"

Best visual effects

"Deepwater Horizon"

"Doctor Strange"

"The Jungle Book" -- WINNER

"Kubo and the Two Strings"

"Rogue One: A Star Wars Story"

Best film editing

"Arrival"

"Hacksaw Ridge" -- WINNER

"La La Land"

"Moonlight"

"Hell or High Water"

Best live action short film

"Ennemis Intérieurs"

"La Femme et le TGV"

"Silent Nights"

"Sing" -- WINNER

"Timecode"

Best documentary short subject

"Extremis"

"4.1 Miles"

"Joe's Violin"

"Watani: My Homeland"

"The White Helmets" -- WINNERS

Best cinematography

"Arrival"

"La La Land" -- WINNER

"Lion"

"Moonlight"

"Silence"

Best original score

"La La Land" -- WINNER

"Lion"

"Jackie"

"Moonlight"

"Passengers"

Best original song

"Audition (The Fools Who Dream)" — "La La Land"

"Can't Stop the Feeling" — "Trolls"

"City of Stars" — "La La Land" -- WINNER

"The Empty Chair" — "Jim: The James Foley Story"

"How Far I'll Go" — "Moana"

Best original screenplay

"Hell or High Water"

"La La Land"

"The Lobster"

"Manchester by the Sea" -- WINNER

"20th Century Women"

#Oscar for Best Original Screenplay goes to ‘Manchester by the Sea.’ #Oscars pic.twitter.com/gEyfZbFNHm — Good Morning America (@GMA) February 27, 2017

Best adapted screenplay

"Arrival"

"Fences"

"Hidden Figures"

"Lion"

"Moonlight" -- WINNER

"This goes out to all those...who don't see themselves...this is for you." - Tarell Alvin McCraney for 'Moonlight.' #Oscars pic.twitter.com/11yOftIT4t — Good Morning America (@GMA) February 27, 2017

Best directing

Damien Chazelle — "La La Land" -- WINNER

Mel Gibson — "Hacksaw Ridge"

Barry Jenkins — "Moonlight"

Kenneth Lonergan — "Manchester by the Sea"

Denis Villeneuve — "Arrival"

Best lead actor

Casey Affleck — "Manchester by the Sea" -- WINNER

Andrew Garfield — "Hacksaw Ridge"

Ryan Gosling — "La La Land"

Viggo Mortensen — "Captain Fantastic"

Denzel Washington — "Fences"

#Oscar for Best Actor in a Leading Role goes to Casey Affleck for ‘Manchester by the Sea.’ #Oscars pic.twitter.com/GrzmvUhNOD — Good Morning America (@GMA) February 27, 2017

Best lead actress

Isabelle Huppert — "Elle"

Ruth Negga — "Loving"

Natalie Portman — "Jackie"

Emma Stone — "La La Land" -- WINNER

Meryl Streep — "Florence Foster Jenkins"

Best picture