Jimmy Kimmel skewers Donald Trump and shows support for 'overrated' Meryl Streep
Jimmy Kimmel skewers Donald Trump and shows support for 'overrated' Meryl Streep
immy Kimmel thanked President Donald Trump for making the Oscars appear less racist as he opened the 89th Academy Awards. The talk show host launched a relentless series of jokes at the president's expense, and showed his support for Meryl Streep in her spat with Mr Trump. Kimmel said he knew the country was divided and he had been encouraged to say something that would unite people. Opening the show, he said the ceremony was being watched around the world by "countries that now hate us". . @JimmyKimmel on Meryl Streep's 20th Oscar nomination. #Oscars  https://t.co/sYnkctdJye  pic.twitter.com/0pNSSlu00Z "The country is divided right now, I've been been getting advice that I need to say something to unite us. "Let me say something. I can't do that. There is only one Braveheart in this room and he's not going to do that either," he said in a dig at Mel Gibson. e appealed to viewers to make an effort at reconciliation by reaching out to political adversaries they knew personally and to "have a positive, considerate conversation, not as liberals or conservatives, as Americans". "If we could all do that, we could make America great again," he said, an allusion to Mr Trump's campaign slogan. He made the audience give Meryl Streep a standing ovation. He said the actress was "over-rated" echoing the president's appraisal of her following Streep's anti-Trump speech at the Golden Globes. "I want to say thank you to President Trump. Remember last year when it seemed like the Oscars were racist? It's gone!" he quipped. ‘Nice Dress…Is That an Ivanka?’: Watch Jimmy Kimmel Hilariously Jab at ‘Overrated’ Meryl Streep  https://t.co/0u3q8GebiK (VIDEO) #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/bLyqqLxr8p e then referenced the exclusion from a White House press briefing of certain news organisations on Friday. He asked anyone from CNN, New York Times or any publication with the word “times” in to leave the building. "We have no tolerance for fake news," he said. During the ceremony, Kimmel tweeted a message to Mr Trump, highlighting the victory of Mahershala Ali, who became the first Muslim to win an acting Oscar. He simply wrote: #Mahershala . @jimmykimmel also tweeted #merylsayshi at President Trump. #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/VYShJ7kXKj Hey @realDonaldTrump u up? s he introduced the nominees for the best supporting actress award, last year's supporting actor winner Mark Rylance said there should be an award for people who can oppose things without hatred. Trump was not named, but the context seemed clear. Kimmel said about audience members, "some of you will get to come up on stage here and give a speech that the president of the United States will tweet about in all caps during his 5 a.m. bowel movement."

Jimmy Kimmel thanked President Donald Trump for making the Oscars appear less racist as he opened the 89th Academy Awards.

The talk show host launched a relentless series of jokes at the president's expense, and showed his support for Meryl Streep in her spat with Mr Trump.

Kimmel said he knew the country was divided and he had been encouraged to say something that would unite people.

Opening the show, he said the ceremony was being watched around the world by "countries that now hate us".