He invented the black box, but David Warren may never be a household name



He invented the black box, but David Warren may never be a household name

Posted

These days, one of the first things investigators look for in a plane crash is the "black box" flight recorder.

After a disaster, the search for the black box can be costly and protracted, and, as in the case of flight MH370, ultimately fruitless.

Given the media attention surrounding these events, it's not surprising the general public is aware of the term black box and understands how important the device is.

Yet, despite the wide use of the term, and the fact the technology has saved hundreds if not thousands of lives, many people are unaware that the black box was invented in Australia.

Even fewer know the name of the black box's Australian inventor.

A 50-year wait for recognition

David Warren was first officially recognised in 1999, and in 2002 was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) for his "service to the aviation industry, particularly through the early conceptual work and prototype development of the black box flight data recorder".

The lapse of time since he first documented the idea in 1954 is hard to explain.

"His stubbornness, his not being afraid to challenge people and very bluntly, were things that probably worked against him in terms of overall acceptance," says his son Peter Warren.

"And that, more than anything else probably contributed to the lapse of 50 years before he was officially recognised."

David's daughter Jenny Warren, puts it this way: "Part of the difficulty with recognising Dad is that he did argue with the system. He argued with people, and he felt that people — or the system as it stood — suppressed him."

Another reason for his lack of recognition is the fact that David Warren worked for the Aeronautical Research Laboratory (ARL), now part of the Defence Science and Technology Group, for most of his career, from 1952 to 1981.

Change in mindset allowed the story to be told

Matthew Churchward, a senior curator at Museums Victoria, describes ARL as a "quasi-military" organisation.

"These organisations weren't in the business of publicising what they did, because a lot of it was military hardware and military secrets," Churchward says.

"It wasn't until well into the 1990s, when the Defence, Science and Technology Organisation (DSTO) began to be semi-commercialised, that they realised, well, we've actually got to go out and promote ourselves and tell people about what we're inventing and what our scientists, and engineers, are working on."

Both Peter and Jenny Warren agree that it was this change in mindset that allowed their father to tell his story, which then enabled the process of recognition to take place.

"He wasn't able to tell his story publicly. He chose to tell it more publicly after he resigned, when he felt that he no longer had the responsibility to stay quiet about how the governments work," says Jenny Warren.

Bill Schofield was a former director of the Aeronautical and Maritime Research Laboratory and spent 37 years at DSTO.

When asked why it took so long for David Warren to be recognised, his first response is: "That's not a scientific question that I can answer, actually."

After a little thought, he elaborates: "Australia is increasingly understanding that we're never going to compete in this world, with unskilled labour.

"We need to compete with new ideas, innovation, and so we look at examples of innovation that have been in the past, and David's ideas in the 1950s were innovative."

Colonial mindset 'a hindrance'

However, Peter Warren believes that his father's story is a reflection of the colonial mindset that existed 50 years ago — a mindset that hindered Australia's ability to innovate, to be proud of its own ideas, to recognise and nurture new concepts.

He says that when his father invented the black box, Australia did not see itself as an equal globally and believed that all the good things in the world were happening overseas.

"That would have been a significant contribution to the lack of interest in what David was doing," says Peter.

"It is a colonial mindset that still hinders this country today."

While the Warren family feel he should have been recognised earlier, they believe that the level of recognition when it came was appropriate.

They are also thankful that it happened before David died in 2010, and that he got to see his invention mandated in commercial planes all over the world.

"For many scientists and people of vision, their visions aren't necessarily brought to fruition in their lifetime and he was very lucky that this one particular vision was," says Peter Warren.

Mr Schofield describes the black box as "one of the most important developments Australia's ever made".

"Air flight around the world is doubling every 10 years. The absolute number of people killed in commercial air crashes continues to reduce to very small numbers," he said.

"He's had an extraordinary impact on the number of lives that have been saved by the black box.

"Very few scientists get that sort of output from their research. It must have been deeply satisfying to him."

Inventor never saw a cent

While the black box is now a household term, David Warren will probably never be a household name.

"Does he need to be a household name?" asks Peter Warren. "He wouldn't give a stuff about that, to be honest."

Peter Warren says what was more important to his father was that his ideas were seen.

"That was the bottom line for him," he says. "No money, no fame — that didn't matter one little bit to him."

That's probably a fortunate thing, because David Warren never got any royalties for his invention.

His own take on it? "I thought of 10 other ideas which weren't any good and went bad. They didn't send me the bill for those, so it evens itself out."

Topics: inventions, science-and-technology, air-and-space, accidents, disasters-and-accidents, defence-and-national-security, defence-industry, australia