Syrian Refugee Hala Kamil Made A Powerful Red Carpet Statement And Here's Why It's Important
Syrian Refugee Hala Kamil Made A Powerful Red Carpet Statement And Here's Why It's Important
Syrian Refugee Hala Kamil Made A Powerful Red Carpet Statement And Here's Why It's Important Syrian Refugee Hala Kamil made the most stunning red-carpet debut on the Oscars but things weren't really rosy for her. Hala Kamil, who was also the subject of the Oscar-nominated short documentary is attending the 89th Academy Awards in a purple and black two-piece velvet gown with a matching purple hijab by Brandon Maxwell. Hala Kamil’s husband was kidnapped by ISIS. Now, the Oscar-nominated dir. wants to make Syria's crisis matter again https://t.co/rk0TAeSlSg  pic.twitter.com/AXVCD458Ji After an unfortunate immigration ban last month, Hala Kamil wasn't sure if she would ever get to attend the Oscars but life certainly had better plans for her. After the ban was lifted, Kamil knew that Oscars was hers to live this time. She started prepping up for her Oscars appearance and so began the hunt for a perfect red-carpet gown. But who would have given a nod at the last moment? There was one person who happily obliged. Brandon Maxwell, though based in New York, decided to help her create a gown that was graceful, modest and could also accommodate a hijab. And it happened. Posting the picture with a moving caption on Instagram, the designer wrote, Syrian refugee, mother of four, and focus of the Academy Award nominated short documentary film Watani: My Homeland, Hala Kamil made her red carpet debut tonight at the 89th Academy Awards in a custom #brandonmaxwell look, made in purple to represent the color of her favorite flower, which happens to be my mother's favorite color as well. To me, every woman is a star and every star has a story. Hala’s story sincerely touched me and I am truly honoured that I had the privilege to create this look for her celebrating this momentous occasion. The goal for my collection is always to empower all women and to not just make them look beautiful, but feel beautiful as well. Hala’s strength and courage throughout her experiences is supremely admirable. Seeing her walk the red carpet full of confidence and elegance, and being a small part of her special night means the world to me. She used to stay up with her husband every year and watch the Oscars from her home in Aleppo, which has now been destroyed, and tonight she walks the carpet. I hope she is having the time of her life. Styled by the wonderful and truly amazing @sweetbabyjamie 💜 A post shared by Brandon Maxwell (@brandonmaxwell) on Feb 26, 2017 at 4:21pm PST   "Syrian refugee, mother of four, and focus of the Academy Award nominated short documentary film Watani: My Homeland, Hala Kamil made her red carpet debut tonight at the 89th Academy Awards in a custom #brandonmaxwell look, made in purple to represent the color of her favorite flower, which happens to be my mother's favorite color as well." Maxwell, who was totally in awe of her inspiring story went on to writing, #halakamil #oscars2017 #AFP #watani:myhomeland A post shared by joyce (@jzablit) on Feb 26, 2017 at 3:11pm PST     "To me, every woman is a star and every star has a story. Hala’s story sincerely touched me and I am truly honoured that I had the privilege to create this look for her celebrating this momentous occasion. The goal for my collection is always to empower all women and to not just make them look beautiful, but feel beautiful as well. Hala’s strength and courage throughout her experiences is supremely admirable. Seeing her walk the red carpet full of confidence and elegance, and being a small part of her special night means the world to me. She used to stay up with her husband every year and watch the Oscars from her home in Aleppo, which has now been destroyed, and tonight she walks the carpet. I hope she is having the time of her life. Styled by the wonderful and truly amazing @sweetbabyjamie"

Syrian Refugee Hala Kamil made the most stunning red-carpet debut on the Oscars but things weren't really rosy for her. Hala Kamil, who was also the subject of the Oscar-nominated short documentary Watani: My Homeland is attending the 89th Academy Awards in a purple and black two-piece velvet gown with a matching purple hijab by Brandon Maxwell.

Hala Kamil’s husband was kidnapped by ISIS. Now, the Oscar-nominated dir. wants to make Syria's crisis matter again https://t.co/rk0TAeSlSg pic.twitter.com/AXVCD458Ji — Pacific Standard (@PacificStand) February 21, 2017

After an unfortunate immigration ban last month, Hala Kamil wasn't sure if she would ever get to attend the Oscars but life certainly had better plans for her. After the ban was lifted, Kamil knew that Oscars was hers to live this time.

She started prepping up for her Oscars appearance and so began the hunt for a perfect red-carpet gown. But who would have given a nod at the last moment?

There was one person who happily obliged. Brandon Maxwell, though based in New York, decided to help her create a gown that was graceful, modest and could also accommodate a hijab.

And it happened. Posting the picture with a moving caption on Instagram, the designer wrote,

"Syrian refugee, mother of four, and focus of the Academy Award nominated short documentary film Watani: My Homeland, Hala Kamil made her red carpet debut tonight at the 89th Academy Awards in a custom #brandonmaxwell look, made in purple to represent the color of her favorite flower, which happens to be my mother's favorite color as well."

Maxwell, who was totally in awe of her inspiring story went on to writing,

#halakamil #oscars2017 #AFP #watani:myhomeland A post shared by joyce (@jzablit) on Feb 26, 2017 at 3:11pm PST

"To me, every woman is a star and every star has a story. Hala’s story sincerely touched me and I am truly honoured that I had the privilege to create this look for her celebrating this momentous occasion.

The goal for my collection is always to empower all women and to not just make them look beautiful, but feel beautiful as well. Hala’s strength and courage throughout her experiences is supremely admirable. Seeing her walk the red carpet full of confidence and elegance, and being a small part of her special night means the world to me.

She used to stay up with her husband every year and watch the Oscars from her home in Aleppo, which has now been destroyed, and tonight she walks the carpet. I hope she is having the time of her life. Styled by the wonderful and truly amazing @sweetbabyjamie"

Apart from all the strong and powerful political statements being made at the Oscars, this one is special and inspiring for reasons more than one. Thanks to Maxwell for his bold and humble post about a woman who truly deserves all the respect and attention.

Don't Miss 213 SHARES 31.7 K SHARES 9.2 K SHARES 33.6 K SHARES