Oscars 2017: Celebrities react to 'Moonlight' actually winning best picture after mix-up
Celebrities react to 'Moonlight' actually winning best picture after mix-up 
Shares               It was the biggest moment of the night. When Oscar presenters Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty mistakenly announced "La La Land" as the best picture winner instead of "Moonlight" after an apparent envelope mix-up, the shockwaves were felt through the room and beyond.   Many took to social media to express their sentiments.     Here's who we spotted reacting to the biggest moment at the 89th Academy Awards, held at the Dolby Theatre on Sunday night:      Amazing ending. Wish that had happened on Election Day.   I figured out what happened, #Oscars - it was @RyanGosling  pic.twitter.com/oo9Te94WEv   You know what the problem is -- millions of Academy members voted illegally.   Steve Harvey right now--- #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/Zx4nRyMLPH   I wrote the ending of the academy awards 2017. @jimmykimmel we really got them!   IF ANYONE FROM THE IN MEMORIUM IS STILL ALIVE PLEASE LET US KNOW   WHY COULDN'T THE ELECTION ENDED THIS WAY!!!! #Oscars   I need a drink... no... a drank... make it a double. My emotions are all over the place #Moonlight  #Oscars2017   So sad how the Russians hacked Warren Beatty.   Have your people call our people - we know what to do. #Oscars  #MissUniverse   Can't believe the Russians almost got away with hacking the #Oscars   Congratulations @moonlightmov . Representation matters (But that whole thing was so weird and we're in shock too). #Oscars   Most nights, I have a dream in which what just happened at the #Oscars actually happened on election night.   Warren Beatty had #alternativefacts . Congrats #Moonlight well deserved!   I'm starting to wonder if I got nominated for Into The Wild after all. #Oscars   I'm also very sad for the MOONLIGHT crew. I wish that they had the full experience of winning best pic without the awkwardness of it all.   Gee, I'm glad I stayed up! That was a first!!!!   I'm blaming Russia and going to sleep. #Oscars  Shares                  Celebrities react to 'Moonlight' actually winning best picture after mix-up   Barry Jenkins, Mahershala Ali and Emma Stone react to Oscars best picture mix-up   Oscars 2017: Complete winners list   Oscars 2017: What you didn't see on TV   Top moments from the Academy Awards   'White Helmets' filmmakers explain Oscar absences   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Best actress winner Emma Stone thanks 'greatest partner' Ryan Gosling   Best actor winner Casey Affleck pays tribute to Denzel Washington   5 things to know about Oscar winner Damien Chazelle   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera

It was the biggest moment of the night.

When Oscar presenters Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty mistakenly announced "La La Land" as the best picture winner instead of "Moonlight" after an apparent envelope mix-up, the shockwaves were felt through the room and beyond.

Chris Pizzello/Invision/AP

Many took to social media to express their sentiments.

Here's who we spotted reacting to the biggest moment at the 89th Academy Awards, held at the Dolby Theatre on Sunday night:

Kevin Winter/Getty Images

Lucy Nicholson/Reuters

Amazing ending. Wish that had happened on Election Day. — Billy Crystal (@BillyCrystal) February 27, 2017

You know what the problem is -- millions of Academy members voted illegally. — Seth MacFarlane (@SethMacFarlane) February 27, 2017

I wrote the ending of the academy awards 2017. @jimmykimmel we really got them! — M. Night Shyamalan (@MNightShyamalan) February 27, 2017

IF ANYONE FROM THE IN MEMORIUM IS STILL ALIVE PLEASE LET US KNOW — billy eichner (@billyeichner) February 27, 2017

WHY COULDN'T THE ELECTION ENDED THIS WAY!!!! #Oscars — Lizz Resistead (@lizzwinstead) February 27, 2017

I need a drink... no... a drank... make it a double. My emotions are all over the place #Moonlight #Oscars2017 — Gabrielle Union (@itsgabrielleu) February 27, 2017

So sad how the Russians hacked Warren Beatty. — Ronan Farrow (@RonanFarrow) February 27, 2017

Have your people call our people - we know what to do. #Oscars #MissUniverse — Miss Universe (@MissUniverse) February 27, 2017

Can't believe the Russians almost got away with hacking the #Oscars — Jason Leopold (@JasonLeopold) February 27, 2017

Congratulations @moonlightmov. Representation matters (But that whole thing was so weird and we're in shock too). #Oscars — ACLU National (@ACLU) February 27, 2017

Most nights, I have a dream in which what just happened at the #Oscars actually happened on election night. — Chris Murphy (@ChrisMurphyCT) February 27, 2017

I'm starting to wonder if I got nominated for Into The Wild after all. #Oscars — Emile Hirsch (@EmileHirsch) February 27, 2017

I'm also very sad for the MOONLIGHT crew. I wish that they had the full experience of winning best pic without the awkwardness of it all. — Jessica Chastain (@jes_chastain) February 27, 2017

Gee, I'm glad I stayed up! That was a first!!!! — Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) February 27, 2017