2017 Oscars: Justin Hurwitz Wins Best Original Score for 'La La Land'
2017 Oscars: Justin Hurwitz Wins Best Original Score for 'La La Land'
Oscars 2017: See the Full Winners List 2017 Oscars Red Carpet & More: See All The Photos! Watch Lin-Manuel Miranda and Auli'i Cravalho Perform 'How Far I'll Go' at the 2017 Oscars Justin Timberlake Opens 2017 Oscars With Lively 'Can't Stop the Feeling!' Performance: Watch 2017 Oscars: Justin Hurwitz Wins Best Original Score for 'La La Land'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  composer Justin Hurwitz nabbed the 2017 Academy Award for best original score at the 2017 Oscars on Sunday (Feb. 26). Â The other nominees included Mica Levi for , Dustin O'Halloran and Hauschka for , Nicholas Britell for and Thomas Newman for .Â "Thank you to my very, very good friend Damien, I'm so glad I met you," Hurwitz said of director Damien Chazelle in his acceptance speech. He also thanked the crew who performed his score. "Thank you to all the musicians. I just put the notes on a page --Â they're the ones who made it beautiful and sound the way it does."  Hurwitz kept it brief, noting, "If I started going through names I could make at most twenty to thirty people happy, but make a couple hundred million people bored." Shortly after winning for best original score, Hurwitz returned to the stage to accept the Oscar for best original song for 's "City of Stars." During that speech, he did, in fact, list a ton of those namesÂ and presumably make 20-30 people happy.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Composer Justin Hurwitz accepts Best Original Score for 'La La Land' onstage during the 89th Annual Academy Awards at Hollywood & Highland Center on Feb. 26, 2017 in Hollywood, Calif.

La La Land composer Justin Hurwitz nabbed the 2017 Academy Award for best original score at the 2017 Oscars on Sunday (Feb. 26). Â

The other nominees included Mica Levi for Jackie, Dustin O'Halloran and Hauschka for Lion, Nicholas Britell for Moonlight and Thomas Newman for Passengers.Â

"Thank you to my very, very good friend Damien, I'm so glad I met you," Hurwitz said of director Damien Chazelle in his acceptance speech. He also thanked the crew who performed his score. "Thank you to all the musicians. I just put the notes on a page --Â they're the ones who made it beautiful and sound the way it does."

Hurwitz kept it brief, noting, "If I started going through names I could make at most twenty to thirty people happy, but make a couple hundred million people bored."

Shortly after winning for best original score, Hurwitz returned to the stage to accept the Oscar for best original song for La La Land's "City of Stars." During that speech, he did, in fact, list a ton of those namesÂ and presumably make 20-30 people happy.Â