Best actor Casey Affleck pays tribute to Denzel Washington in acceptance speech
Best actor winner Casey Affleck pays tribute to Denzel Washington
Shares               As Casey Affleck accepted the Oscar for best actor, he paid tribute to fellow nominee Denzel Washington . "One of the first people who taught me how to act was Denzel Washington, and I just met him tonight for the first time. Thank you," he said. This was the first Oscar win for Affleck.   The "Manchester by the Sea" star also thanked Kenneth Lonergan, who wrote and directed "Manchester by the Sea," as well as Matt Damon , his brother, Ben Affleck , and his parents.       "I'm just really proud to be apart of this community and I look out at all of you and I have this whole year and I'm just dumbfounded that I'm included. And it means a lot to me," he said. Shares                  Best actor winner Casey Affleck pays tribute to Denzel Washington   Barry Jenkins, Mahershala Ali and Emma Stone react to Oscars best picture mix-up   Oscars 2017: Complete winners list   Celebrities react to 'Moonlight' actually winning best picture after mix-up   Oscars 2017: What you didn't see on TV   Top moments from the Academy Awards   'White Helmets' filmmakers explain Oscar absences   'Moonlight' wins best picture after 'La La Land' mistakenly announced   Best actress winner Emma Stone thanks 'greatest partner' Ryan Gosling   5 things to know about Oscar winner Damien Chazelle   Progressives fear DNC's choice of Perez means party hasn't learned lesson   Manhunt launched for a man linked to two murders in Mississippi   What popular tax breaks are at risk if GOP overhauls taxes?   Obama and daughter Malia attend 'The Price' on Broadway   Oprah Winfrey explains why she 'didn't want babies'   Woman pens obituary on behalf of her sassy, 91-year-old grandmother   Husband works out with fake belly to see what it's like for his pregnant wife   Woman's reaction to $2M Powerball win caught on camera

As Casey Affleck accepted the Oscar for best actor, he paid tribute to fellow nominee Denzel Washington.

"One of the first people who taught me how to act was Denzel Washington, and I just met him tonight for the first time. Thank you," he said.

This was the first Oscar win for Affleck.

Lucy Nicholson/Reuters

The "Manchester by the Sea" star also thanked Kenneth Lonergan, who wrote and directed "Manchester by the Sea," as well as Matt Damon, his brother, Ben Affleck, and his parents.

"I'm just really proud to be apart of this community and I look out at all of you and I have this whole year and I'm just dumbfounded that I'm included. And it means a lot to me," he said.