People Now Want Obama To Run For French Presidential Elections & A Petition Has Been Launched!
People Now Want Obama To Run For French Presidential Elections & A Petition Has Been Launched!
People Now Want Obama To Run For French Presidential Elections & A Petition Has Been Launched! There is no way that the world will let go of the beloved, former US President, Barack Obama. Back on Jan. 20, when Barack Obama’s second term as the 44th president of the United States came to an end and he passed the torch to Donald Trump, suddenly the world became extremely gloomy. (Also read: Obama's Farewell Video Is Finally Here & It Has Everyone Talking About Their Favourite President ) A Citizens' Petition Calls For A New French President: Barack Obama https://t.co/kwI5080EVW But hey, that doesn't stop us from yearning for more. Can we have Obama as french president ? ' The Obama 17 Campaign ' is betting for 1 million signatures by March 15 in order to persuade our favourite ex-president. "Barack Obama has the best resume in the world for the job," the site reads. Obama for (French) President 😂 #yeswecan  #ouionpeut  #obama17  pic.twitter.com/VakST1fh0E Following this, posters calling for Obama to run for the elections have veiled the streets across Paris. Obama 2017: Petition Calls for Barack Obama to Run as French President https://t.co/WoAdqhAzg4  pic.twitter.com/sCKTBQXZ8U The petition has received 27,000 signatures so far and is grabbing attention like fire in the wind. Obama has also ranked 12th on the best US President list, according to a C-SPAN survey of 91 presidential historians. This news is a testament to the fact that Obama, undeniably, is extremely loved and admired. (Also read: Barack Obama Is Back From Vacation, The Entire Manhattan Can’t Stop Welcoming Him ) Historians gave him marks for pursuing equality, managing the economy, public persuasion and “moral authority.” This is not the first time that the French people have expressed their love and longing for the former US President. At least two such petitions were started last year, but this one is by far the most successful one.

There is no way that the world will let go of the beloved, former US President, Barack Obama.

npr

Back on Jan. 20, when Barack Obama’s second term as the 44th president of the United States came to an end and he passed the torch to Donald Trump, suddenly the world became extremely gloomy.

(Also read: Obama's Farewell Video Is Finally Here & It Has Everyone Talking About Their Favourite President)

A Citizens' Petition Calls For A New French President: Barack Obama https://t.co/kwI5080EVW — NPR (@NPR) February 23, 2017

But hey, that doesn't stop us from yearning for more.

Can we have Obama as french president ? — Virginie🦋 (@Virgiinie_) February 26, 2017

A new campaign has been launched, calling Obama to run for the French elections in May this year.

dr.dk

'The Obama 17 Campaign' is betting for 1 million signatures by March 15 in order to persuade our favourite ex-president.

"Barack Obama has the best resume in the world for the job," the site reads.

Following this, posters calling for Obama to run for the elections have veiled the streets across Paris.

Obama 2017: Petition Calls for Barack Obama to Run as French President https://t.co/WoAdqhAzg4 pic.twitter.com/sCKTBQXZ8U — McSpocky™ 👽 (@mcspocky) February 24, 2017

The petition has received 27,000 signatures so far and is grabbing attention like fire in the wind.

Obama has also ranked 12th on the best US President list, according to a C-SPAN survey of 91 presidential historians. This news is a testament to the fact that Obama, undeniably, is extremely loved and admired.

(Also read: Barack Obama Is Back From Vacation, The Entire Manhattan Can’t Stop Welcoming Him)

Reuters

Historians gave him marks for pursuing equality, managing the economy, public persuasion and “moral authority.”

This is not the first time that the French people have expressed their love and longing for the former US President. At least two such petitions were started last year, but this one is by far the most successful one.

Don't Miss 410 SHARES 52.8 K SHARES 39 K SHARES 25.4 K SHARES

(Also read: Just 15 Photographs Of Barack And Michelle Obama Giving The World Relationship Goals)