Oscars 2017: Emma Stone, Ryan Gosling, Natalie Portman and more read mean Tweets for Jimmy Kimmel
Oscars 2017: Emma Stone, Ryan Gosling, Natalie Portman and more read mean Tweets for Jimmy Kimmel
While Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway may have stolen all the attention by announcing the wrong Best Picture , there was much to be marveled at during the long ceremony. One of the best moments came courtesy of Jimmy Kimmel, who persuaded numerous nominees to read mean Tweets directed at them aloud. "Feel like if you went to lunch with Natalie Portman she would only order a hot tea with lemon and maybe some toast. Definitely not an entree though," Portman - who was nominated for Best Leading Actress for her role in Jackie - read. Ryan Gosling’s was more a compliment, the La La Land actor reading: "Oh, look at me, I’m Ryan Gosling, I have perfect bone structure and kind eyes. Go f**k yourself Ryan Gosling.” Oscars 2017: Best dressed on the red carpet               Oscars 2017: Best dressed on the red carpet       Hailee Steinfeld   Getty Images        Taraji P. Henson   Getty Images        Chrissy Teigen   Getty Images        Ruth Negga   REUTERS        Dev Patel   PA        Karlie Kloss   Getty Images        Emma Roberts   Getty Images        Riz Ahmed         Felicity Jones   AFP/Getty Images        Isabelle Huppert   AFP/Getty Images        Mahershala Ali   Rex Features        Michelle Williams   Getty Images        Naomie Harris   AFP/Getty Images        Scarlett Johansson   Getty Images        Ryan Gosling   Getty Images        Viola Davis   Getty Images        Charlize Theron   Getty Images        Dakota Johnson   REUTERS        Chris Evans         Brie Larson         Jamie Dornan and Amelia Warner   REUTERS        Sofia Boutella   PA        Pharrell Williams   Rex Features        Kirsten Dunst   Getty Images  Eddie Redmayne’s was one of the funniest: ”Dear Eddie Redmayne, I hate your stinking guts, you make me vomit, you're the scum between my toes. Love, Zhenya.” However, topping the lot was Miles Teller, who read: “Miles Teller has the face of a guy who would request Gangnam Style at a wedding where he doesn’t know either the bride or groom.” Watch below. Ryan Gosling, Emma Stone, Natalie Portman and more star in Mean Tweets: #Oscars edition. pic.twitter.com/5NHHvxuT3D Meanwhile, catch up with all the latest from the Oscars here including the statement issued on the mix-up. More about: Oscars 2017 Oscars Jimmy Kimmel Comments

While Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway may have stolen all the attention by announcing the wrong Best Picture, there was much to be marveled at during the long ceremony.

One of the best moments came courtesy of Jimmy Kimmel, who persuaded numerous nominees to read mean Tweets directed at them aloud.

"Feel like if you went to lunch with Natalie Portman she would only order a hot tea with lemon and maybe some toast. Definitely not an entree though," Portman - who was nominated for Best Leading Actress for her role in Jackie - read.

Ryan Gosling’s was more a compliment, the La La Land actor reading: "Oh, look at me, I’m Ryan Gosling, I have perfect bone structure and kind eyes. Go f**k yourself Ryan Gosling.”

Oscars 2017: Best dressed on the red carpet







24 show all Oscars 2017: Best dressed on the red carpet













































1/24 Hailee Steinfeld Getty Images

2/24 Taraji P. Henson Getty Images

3/24 Chrissy Teigen Getty Images

4/24 Ruth Negga REUTERS

5/24 Dev Patel PA

6/24 Karlie Kloss Getty Images

7/24 Emma Roberts Getty Images

8/24 Riz Ahmed

9/24 Felicity Jones AFP/Getty Images

10/24 Isabelle Huppert AFP/Getty Images

11/24 Mahershala Ali Rex Features

12/24 Michelle Williams Getty Images

13/24 Naomie Harris AFP/Getty Images

14/24 Scarlett Johansson Getty Images

15/24 Ryan Gosling Getty Images

16/24 Viola Davis Getty Images

17/24 Charlize Theron Getty Images

18/24 Dakota Johnson REUTERS

19/24 Chris Evans

20/24 Brie Larson

21/24 Jamie Dornan and Amelia Warner REUTERS

22/24 Sofia Boutella PA

23/24 Pharrell Williams Rex Features

24/24 Kirsten Dunst Getty Images

Eddie Redmayne’s was one of the funniest: ”Dear Eddie Redmayne, I hate your stinking guts, you make me vomit, you're the scum between my toes. Love, Zhenya.”

However, topping the lot was Miles Teller, who read: “Miles Teller has the face of a guy who would request Gangnam Style at a wedding where he doesn’t know either the bride or groom.” Watch below.

Ryan Gosling, Emma Stone, Natalie Portman and more star in Mean Tweets: #Oscars edition. pic.twitter.com/5NHHvxuT3D — Hollywood Reporter (@THR) 27 February 2017

Meanwhile, catch up with all the latest from the Oscars here including the statement issued on the La La Land/Moonlight mix-up.