Just 28 Perfect Tweets From Women About The 2017 Oscars
Just 28 Perfect Tweets About The 2017 Oscars
What. Just. Happened? The wildest, most hilarious, most ridiculous Academy Awards broadcast, possibly ever? Between Gary from Chicago , every moment the camera was on Taraji P. Henson, the Matt Damon shade thrown by his longtime (faux) rival and Oscar host Jimmy Kimmel, and the epic way “Moonlight” won the award for Best Picture , the women of Twitter kept us laughing Sunday night with tons of wit and tons of snark. Below are 28 of our favorite reactions from the night:   I aspire to watch the 2017 Oscars with such strategic muting that I never find out what La La Land's about     i love awards shows because i get to critique things in which i have no expertise!!     The Oscars are already one big "FUCK YOU" to Trump. This is awesome. #Oscars     In preparation for any #Oscars upsets tonight I want to preempt the "why yall seeking white approval" crowd with pic.twitter.com/cNejcT3D6m     Latinos trying to get into the #Oscars ... pic.twitter.com/hc5VBuEKpW     Meryl Streep just got a real standing ovation cc @realDonaldTrump     I like you, Moana girl, you hella likable     Is Mark Rylance the only man in the last 60 years to pull off a fedora y/n     I feel the same way about snacks, Taraji #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/oS2R7qIEG0     The entire room just applauded Meryl for literally no reason and this is by far the best #Oscars I've ever watched     Iran film The Salesman wins Best Foreign film Yo, you can travel ban a country but you can't make their movies suck. #Oscars     Gary is the Ken Bone we all actually wanted. #Oscars     Bush did 9/11 pic.twitter.com/e8SHguILt4     fave if you have popcorn in your bra     "I'm white, male, and rich! Who dares tell me to stop talking?!" #Oscars     The women of @HiddenFigures are on my screen looking like they smell of excellence, perseverance and cocoa butter. I live. #Oscars     I think it's bullshit that the Oscar statues don't come wearing tiny tuxedos.     Y'ALL WERE DOING SO GOOD! #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/PLZQLElIwO     imagine a woman accepting an Oscar while looking like she spent the past 3 months in the woods with no shower #caseyaffleck  #Oscars     Can't stop my eyes from rolling at all the self congratulation and inside jokes with Matt Jimmy and Ben.     But which film won the popular vote? #Oscars     THE UNIVERSE JUST KANYE-ED THE OSCARS     imagine getting up on that #Oscars stage and thanking ur blue-eyed wife only to have ur trophy snatched, #BlackHistoryMonth is wild     Hillary after watching the #Oscars best pictures mix-up *calls electoral college* Hillary: "Hi I just have a quick question..."     Steve rn #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/TkuNgx1iUe     Ok sure but the academy BUSED PEOPLE IN TO VOTE ILLEGALLY. DEAD ACADEMY MEMBERS VOTED TWICE     literally everybody in the room at the end of the oscars pic.twitter.com/RMi8ppBTBM     Next up: Hillary Clinton is actually POTUS!!!!! #Oscars   ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

The wildest, most hilarious, most ridiculous Academy Awards broadcast, possibly ever? Between Gary from Chicago, every moment the camera was on Taraji P. Henson, the Matt Damon shade thrown by his longtime (faux) rival and Oscar host Jimmy Kimmel, and the epic way “Moonlight” won the award for Best Picture, the women of Twitter kept us laughing Sunday night with tons of wit and tons of snark.