The minute-by-minute breakdown of the shocking ‘Moonlight’/‘La La Land’ best picture mix-up

In what was surely the most shocking moment in Oscars history, Faye Dunaway announced the wrong winner for best picture at the end of the ceremony, awarding the trophy to “La La Land” when it actually was supposed to go to “Moonlight.” It turns out Dunaway and her co-presenter, Warren Beatty, were given the wrong category envelope, so the actors announced the wrong winner, leading to the wrong filmmakers to begin their acceptance speeches for an award they had not won. But it took several minutes for the Academy Awards producers and accountants to rectify the mistake and get the actual winners onstage to accept Hollywood’s biggest honor. Officials with PricewaterhouseCoopers, the longtime Oscars accounting firm, apologized for the error and said they are “investigating how this could have happened.” It all started when Beatty opened the envelope to read the winner for best picture. He looked confused, took a long pause and then glanced at Dunaway, who clearly thought he was doing some sort of bit. “You’re impossible!” she said, as the crowd laughed nervously. “Come on!” Beatty handed the envelope to Dunaway, who announced: “La La Land!” As cameras cut to the cast and crew of “La La Land” hugging, Beatty could be heard saying something like, “It says Emma Stone,” while Dunaway said, “What?”   It would make (a little bit) of sense shortly. The “La La Land” team arrived on stage, and producers Jordan Horowitz and Marc Platt delivered their speeches. All of a sudden, there was a flurry of activity behind them. A man with a headset started talking to several people, as did Martha Ruiz, one of only two accountants in charge of tabulating Oscar ballots — and therefore one of the only two people who knew all the winners before the show. As people were conferring, film producer Fred Berger stepped up to the microphone. He thanked his family and director Damien Chazelle, and then he turned around to look at the sudden commotion behind him. “We lost, by the way — but, you know,” he said, shrugging. Behind him, Stone could be seen mouthing, “Oh, my God.” Huh? That’s when Horowitz stepped forward again. “Guys, guys, I’m sorry. No. There’s a mistake,” he said. “‘Moonlight,’ you guys won best picture.” “This is not a joke,” Platt said. “I’m afraid they read the wrong thing.” Confused gasps and stunned silence from the crowd quickly turned into a standing ovation. “This is not a joke,” Horowitz repeated. “‘Moonlight’ has won best picture.” Horowitz then held up the card that proved it: “‘Moonlight’ … Best Picture.” As the audience in the theater and millions of viewers at home tried to process what happened, the cameras went to the cast of “Moonlight” in the crowd, clearly in shock and hugging each other. Host Jimmy Kimmel arrived on stage to help sort things out, and crack jokes. “I think you guys should keep it anyway. Guys, this is very unfortunate what happened. Personally, I blame Steve Harvey for this,” he said, name-checking the last person who made an epic mix-up on live TV.   Kimmel turned to Horowitz. “I would like to see you get an Oscar, anyway,” he said. “Why can’t we just give out a whole bunch of them?” Horowitz demurred: “I’m going to be really proud to hand this to my friends from ‘Moonlight,’” he said. “That’s nice of you,” Kimmel said. Beatty then stepped forward to the microphone to try to clear up the confusion: “Hello,” he started. “Warren, what did you do?!” Kimmel yelled. Beatty went on to explain: “I want to tell you what happened. I opened the envelope and it said, Emma Stone, ‘La La Land.’” (Stone had just won best actress moments before.) “That’s why I took such a long look at Faye, and at you. I wasn’t trying to be funny,” Beatty said to the audience. “Well, you were funny,” Kimmel said. “This is ‘Moonlight,’ the best picture,” Beatty said, turning the correct card around. So, the cast of “Moonlight” took the stage, as the camera panned to more shocked celebrity faces in the audience. “Very clearly, even in my dreams this could not be true,” director Barry Jenkins said. “But to hell with dreams! I’m done with it, because this is true. Oh, my goodness.” He turned his attention to the “La La Land” team: “I have to say, and it is true, it’s not fake. We’ve been on the road with these guys for so long, and that was so gracious, and so generous of them. My love to ‘La La Land,’ my love to everybody.” Jordan Horowitz. Wow. I'm slipping slowly into reflection, perspective. Much respect to that dude — Barry Jenkins (@BandryBarry) February 27, 2017 Thank you, Barry. Congratulations and much love. ❤ https://t.co/BSwk9T6Si4 — Jordan Horowitz (@jehorowitz) February 27, 2017 Producer Adele Romanski took the stage: “Um, thank you? To the Academy? I don’t know what to say. I’m still not sure this is real,” she said. “It is so humbling to be standing up here with hopefully still the ‘La La’ crew? No, okay, they’re gone.” She went on to say she hopes the movie is inspiring to “people, little black boys and brown girls and other folks watching at home who feel marginalized.” Kimmel returned to the microphone to close out the show. “Well, I don’t know what happened; I blame myself for this,” he said. “Let’s remember, it’s just an awards show. I mean, we hate to see people disappointed, but the good news is, we got to see some extra speeches We had some great movies. I knew I would screw this show up, I really did. Thank you for watching. I’m back to work tomorrow night at my regular show. I promise I’ll never come back. Good night.” The only thing left to figure out: Seriously, how in the world did that happen?! An additional wrinkle was added to the saga backstage, where Stone explained that she was on stage after “La La Land” was announced as winner with her best actress Oscar and card in hand.   “Of course it was an amazing thing to hear ‘La La Land,’” Stone said. “We would have loved to have won best picture. But we are so excited for ‘Moonlight.’ I think it’s one of the best films of all time. I was also holding my ‘best actress in a leading role’ card that entire time. So whatever story, I don’t mean to start stuff, but whatever story that was, I had that card.” E! reported that Warren Beatty was handed the wrong envelope and showed a close-up shot of the envelope labeled as such. Other close-ups showed Beatty with a card reading “Actress in a Leading Role.” PricewaterhouseCoopers partners Brian Cullinan and Martha Ruiz said in a Medium Q&A earlier this month that there are actually two envelopes for each category. “We each have a full set,” Cullinan said. “I have all 24 envelopes in my briefcase; Martha has all 24 in hers. We stand on opposite sides of the stage, right off-screen, for the entire evening, and we each hand the respective envelope to the presenter.” He added: “It doesn’t sound very complicated, but you have to make sure you’re giving the presenter the right envelope.”  #Repost @theacademy ・・・ There are very few people who know the Oscar winners before Oscar Sunday. Find out all about those people by going to http://osca.rs/89ballots or click the Academy bio. A post shared by PwC US (@pwc_llp) on According to USA Today , which had a reporter in the wings when the wrong best picture winner was announced, one of the PricewaterhouseCoopers accountants jumped up, said Beatty had taken the wrong envelope, and rushed onstage. “Oh, my God. ‘Moonlight’ won. ‘Moonlight’ won,” a stagehand said, according to USA Today’s account. But minutes lapsed before mistake was corrected — enough time for the “La La Land” crew and cast to celebrate, meander onto the stage and begin their acceptance speeches. “Why didn’t the producers of the show rush to the stage when the wrong winner had been announced?!” Jessica Chastain wrote on Twitter . “I feel bad for lalaland producers AWKWARD.” Horowitz provided a play-by-play afterward on E!, explaining that he had taken the envelope after the winner was announced and held the card as he gave his acceptance speech. “There was a guy, a stagehand guy, who started kind of buzzing around, looking for the envelope,” Horowitz said. Eventually, the envelope was found. He “opened it, and it said ‘Emma Stone, La La Land’ on it,” Horowitz said. “At that moment, it was clear there was a problem. They eventually found the best picture envelope.” Backstage, Jenkins said: “I think all the movies that were nominated were worthy, so I accepted the results. I applauded like everyone else. I noticed the commotion that was happening, and I thought something strange had occurred. “And then I’m sure everybody saw my face. But I was speechless when the result — that was awkward, because I’ve watched the Academy Awards, and I’ve never seen that happen before. And so it made a very special feeling even more special, but not in the way I expected.” Jenkins added that he was not given any explanation for the mix-up. “Things just happen, you know?” he said. “But I will say I saw two cards. … I wanted to see the card to see the card. And Warren refused to show the card to anybody before he showed it to me. And so he did. He came upstairs, and he walked over to me, and he — he showed the card. “Everybody was asking, ‘Can I see the card?’ And he’s like, ‘No, Barry Jenkins has to see the card. I need him to know. ‘ And he showed it to me, and I felt better about what had happened.” Jenkins took pains to tell reporters that “the folks from ‘La La Land’ were so gracious. I can’t imagine being in their position and having to do that. … I wasn’t speechless because we won. I was speechless because I — it was so gracious of them to do that.” STILL SPEECHLESS pic.twitter.com/qe3NUDWAHM — Barry Jenkins (@BandryBarry) February 27, 2017 For its part, PricewaterhouseCoopers offered an apology “to ‘Moonlight,’ ‘La La Land,’ Warren Beatty, Faye Dunaway, and Oscar viewers for the error that was made during the award announcement for Best Picture. The presenters had mistakenly been given the wrong category envelope and when discovered, was immediately corrected. We are currently investigating how this could have happened, and deeply regret that this occurred. We appreciate the grace with which the nominees, the Academy, ABC, and Jimmy Kimmel handled the situation.” Said Jenkins: “It’s unfortunate that things happened the way they did. But hot damn, we won best picture.”   Oscars 2017: 10 things you need to know, from the epic mix-up to Viola Davis’s speech ‘La La Land’ producer Jordan Horowitz is the truth-teller we need right now ‘There’s been a mistake. ‘Moonlight,’ you guys won.’: An Oscars shocker, in more ways than one Oscars 2017: ‘Moonlight’s’ moment not eclipsed by Oscars mix-up Oscars 2017 review: From Blah-Blah Land to wait — what just happened? The most eye-catching red carpet look at the Oscars wasn’t a dress. It was a blue ACLU ribbon. Red carpet: What celebrities wore to the Oscars Jimmy Kimmel’s most biting monologue jokes The Oscars’ most political moments

Actress and award presenter Faye Dunaway announced that "La La Land" won the Oscar for best picture. But the musical had not, in fact, won the award. "Moonlight" did. Watch the dramatic and confusing end to the awards show. (Clip Courtesy A.M.P.A.S.© 2017)

In what was surely the most shocking moment in Oscars history, Faye Dunaway announced the wrong winner for best picture at the end of the ceremony, awarding the trophy to “La La Land” when it actually was supposed to go to “Moonlight.”

It turns out Dunaway and her co-presenter, Warren Beatty, were given the wrong category envelope, so the actors announced the wrong winner, leading to the wrong filmmakers to begin their acceptance speeches for an award they had not won.

But it took several minutes for the Academy Awards producers and accountants to rectify the mistake and get the actual winners onstage to accept Hollywood’s biggest honor.

Officials with PricewaterhouseCoopers, the longtime Oscars accounting firm, apologized for the error and said they are “investigating how this could have happened.”

It all started when Beatty opened the envelope to read the winner for best picture. He looked confused, took a long pause and then glanced at Dunaway, who clearly thought he was doing some sort of bit.

“You’re impossible!” she said, as the crowd laughed nervously. “Come on!” Beatty handed the envelope to Dunaway, who announced: “La La Land!”

As cameras cut to the cast and crew of “La La Land” hugging, Beatty could be heard saying something like, “It says Emma Stone,” while Dunaway said, “What?”

[After bizarre moment, ‘Moonlight’ wins best picture; ‘La La Land’ was originally announced as winner]

It would make (a little bit) of sense shortly.

The “La La Land” team arrived on stage, and producers Jordan Horowitz and Marc Platt delivered their speeches.

All of a sudden, there was a flurry of activity behind them. A man with a headset started talking to several people, as did Martha Ruiz, one of only two accountants in charge of tabulating Oscar ballots — and therefore one of the only two people who knew all the winners before the show.

As people were conferring, film producer Fred Berger stepped up to the microphone. He thanked his family and director Damien Chazelle, and then he turned around to look at the sudden commotion behind him. “We lost, by the way — but, you know,” he said, shrugging.

Behind him, Stone could be seen mouthing, “Oh, my God.”

Huh? That’s when Horowitz stepped forward again. “Guys, guys, I’m sorry. No. There’s a mistake,” he said. “‘Moonlight,’ you guys won best picture.”

“This is not a joke,” Platt said. “I’m afraid they read the wrong thing.”

Confused gasps and stunned silence from the crowd quickly turned into a standing ovation.

“This is not a joke,” Horowitz repeated. “‘Moonlight’ has won best picture.”

Horowitz then held up the card that proved it: “‘Moonlight’ … Best Picture.”

As the audience in the theater and millions of viewers at home tried to process what happened, the cameras went to the cast of “Moonlight” in the crowd, clearly in shock and hugging each other.

Host Jimmy Kimmel arrived on stage to help sort things out, and crack jokes. “I think you guys should keep it anyway. Guys, this is very unfortunate what happened. Personally, I blame Steve Harvey for this,” he said, name-checking the last person who made an epic mix-up on live TV.

[Was the Oscars best picture mix-up a Jimmy Kimmel prank? Conspiracy theories begin.]

Kimmel turned to Horowitz. “I would like to see you get an Oscar, anyway,” he said. “Why can’t we just give out a whole bunch of them?”

Horowitz demurred: “I’m going to be really proud to hand this to my friends from ‘Moonlight,’” he said.

“That’s nice of you,” Kimmel said.

Beatty then stepped forward to the microphone to try to clear up the confusion: “Hello,” he started.

“Warren, what did you do?!” Kimmel yelled.

Beatty went on to explain: “I want to tell you what happened. I opened the envelope and it said, Emma Stone, ‘La La Land.’” (Stone had just won best actress moments before.)

“That’s why I took such a long look at Faye, and at you. I wasn’t trying to be funny,” Beatty said to the audience.

“Well, you were funny,” Kimmel said.

“This is ‘Moonlight,’ the best picture,” Beatty said, turning the correct card around.

So, the cast of “Moonlight” took the stage, as the camera panned to more shocked celebrity faces in the audience. “Very clearly, even in my dreams this could not be true,” director Barry Jenkins said. “But to hell with dreams! I’m done with it, because this is true. Oh, my goodness.”

He turned his attention to the “La La Land” team: “I have to say, and it is true, it’s not fake. We’ve been on the road with these guys for so long, and that was so gracious, and so generous of them. My love to ‘La La Land,’ my love to everybody.”

Jordan Horowitz. Wow. I'm slipping slowly into reflection, perspective. Much respect to that dude — Barry Jenkins (@BandryBarry) February 27, 2017

Thank you, Barry. Congratulations and much love. ❤ https://t.co/BSwk9T6Si4 — Jordan Horowitz (@jehorowitz) February 27, 2017

Producer Adele Romanski took the stage: “Um, thank you? To the Academy? I don’t know what to say. I’m still not sure this is real,” she said. “It is so humbling to be standing up here with hopefully still the ‘La La’ crew? No, okay, they’re gone.” She went on to say she hopes the movie is inspiring to “people, little black boys and brown girls and other folks watching at home who feel marginalized.”

Kimmel returned to the microphone to close out the show.

“Well, I don’t know what happened; I blame myself for this,” he said. “Let’s remember, it’s just an awards show. I mean, we hate to see people disappointed, but the good news is, we got to see some extra speeches We had some great movies. I knew I would screw this show up, I really did. Thank you for watching. I’m back to work tomorrow night at my regular show. I promise I’ll never come back. Good night.”

The only thing left to figure out: Seriously, how in the world did that happen?!

An additional wrinkle was added to the saga backstage, where Stone explained that she was on stage after “La La Land” was announced as winner with her best actress Oscar and card in hand.

[Reactions to Oscars flub: Disbelief, Steve Harvey jokes and election night metaphors]

“Of course it was an amazing thing to hear ‘La La Land,’” Stone said. “We would have loved to have won best picture. But we are so excited for ‘Moonlight.’ I think it’s one of the best films of all time. I was also holding my ‘best actress in a leading role’ card that entire time. So whatever story, I don’t mean to start stuff, but whatever story that was, I had that card.”

E! reported that Warren Beatty was handed the wrong envelope and showed a close-up shot of the envelope labeled as such.

Other close-ups showed Beatty with a card reading “Actress in a Leading Role.”

PricewaterhouseCoopers partners Brian Cullinan and Martha Ruiz said in a Medium Q&A earlier this month that there are actually two envelopes for each category.

“We each have a full set,” Cullinan said. “I have all 24 envelopes in my briefcase; Martha has all 24 in hers. We stand on opposite sides of the stage, right off-screen, for the entire evening, and we each hand the respective envelope to the presenter.”

He added: “It doesn’t sound very complicated, but you have to make sure you’re giving the presenter the right envelope.”

#Repost @theacademy ・・・ There are very few people who know the Oscar winners before Oscar Sunday. Find out all about those people by going to http://osca.rs/89ballots or click the Academy bio. A post shared by PwC US (@pwc_llp) on Feb 20, 2017 at 12:15pm PST

According to USA Today, which had a reporter in the wings when the wrong best picture winner was announced, one of the PricewaterhouseCoopers accountants jumped up, said Beatty had taken the wrong envelope, and rushed onstage.

“Oh, my God. ‘Moonlight’ won. ‘Moonlight’ won,” a stagehand said, according to USA Today’s account.

But minutes lapsed before mistake was corrected — enough time for the “La La Land” crew and cast to celebrate, meander onto the stage and begin their acceptance speeches.

“Why didn’t the producers of the show rush to the stage when the wrong winner had been announced?!” Jessica Chastain wrote on Twitter. “I feel bad for # lalaland producers AWKWARD.”

Horowitz provided a play-by-play afterward on E!, explaining that he had taken the envelope after the winner was announced and held the card as he gave his acceptance speech.

“There was a guy, a stagehand guy, who started kind of buzzing around, looking for the envelope,” Horowitz said.

Eventually, the envelope was found. He “opened it, and it said ‘Emma Stone, La La Land’ on it,” Horowitz said. “At that moment, it was clear there was a problem. They eventually found the best picture envelope.”

Backstage, Jenkins said: “I think all the movies that were nominated were worthy, so I accepted the results. I applauded like everyone else. I noticed the commotion that was happening, and I thought something strange had occurred.

“And then I’m sure everybody saw my face. But I was speechless when the result — that was awkward, because I’ve watched the Academy Awards, and I’ve never seen that happen before. And so it made a very special feeling even more special, but not in the way I expected.”

Jenkins added that he was not given any explanation for the mix-up.

“Things just happen, you know?” he said. “But I will say I saw two cards. … I wanted to see the card to see the card. And Warren refused to show the card to anybody before he showed it to me. And so he did. He came upstairs, and he walked over to me, and he — he showed the card.

“Everybody was asking, ‘Can I see the card?’ And he’s like, ‘No, Barry Jenkins has to see the card. I need him to know. ‘ And he showed it to me, and I felt better about what had happened.”

Jenkins took pains to tell reporters that “the folks from ‘La La Land’ were so gracious. I can’t imagine being in their position and having to do that. … I wasn’t speechless because we won. I was speechless because I — it was so gracious of them to do that.”

For its part, PricewaterhouseCoopers offered an apology “to ‘Moonlight,’ ‘La La Land,’ Warren Beatty, Faye Dunaway, and Oscar viewers for the error that was made during the award announcement for Best Picture. The presenters had mistakenly been given the wrong category envelope and when discovered, was immediately corrected. We are currently investigating how this could have happened, and deeply regret that this occurred. We appreciate the grace with which the nominees, the Academy, ABC, and Jimmy Kimmel handled the situation.”

Said Jenkins: “It’s unfortunate that things happened the way they did. But hot damn, we won best picture.”

This post has been updated.

Read more:

[Complete Oscars 2017 recap]

Oscars 2017: 10 things you need to know, from the epic mix-up to Viola Davis’s speech

‘La La Land’ producer Jordan Horowitz is the truth-teller we need right now

‘There’s been a mistake. ‘Moonlight,’ you guys won.’: An Oscars shocker, in more ways than one

Oscars 2017: ‘Moonlight’s’ moment not eclipsed by Oscars mix-up

Oscars 2017 review: From Blah-Blah Land to wait — what just happened?

The most eye-catching red carpet look at the Oscars wasn’t a dress. It was a blue ACLU ribbon.

Red carpet: What celebrities wore to the Oscars

Jimmy Kimmel’s most biting monologue jokes

The Oscars’ most political moments