The Oscars made a big mistake during the In Memoriam
The Oscars made a big mistake during the In Memoriam
A lot of famous people died in 2016 — producer Jan Chapman wasn't one of them. The Oscars on Sunday accidentally put a picture of the Australian producer instead of designer Janet Patterson during its In Memoriam portion of the show. SEE ALSO: Oscars 2017: Full winners list Patterson, who designed looks for films including and died in October 2016 . Chapman, a producer who is still alive, worked with Patterson on films such as and . Chapman confirmed the mistake, and her vitality, to Monday morning. “I was devastated by the use of my image in place of my great friend and long-time collaborator Janet Patterson. I had urged her agency to check any photograph which might be used and understand that they were told that the Academy had it covered," she told "Janet was a great beauty and four-time Oscar nominee and it is very disappointing that the error was not picked up. I am alive and well and an active producer.” Twitter was extremely quick to notice the mistake. Pic of my pal Jan Chapman- very much alive - was just featured in In Memoriam. #Oscars — Virginia M Moncrieff (@VMMoncrieff) February 27, 2017 You've used a wrong pic for Janet Patterson @TheAcademy the multi-nominated costume designer. Wrongly used a pic of producer Jan Chapman. — Jenny Lavelle (@JennyLavelle_) February 27, 2017 Oh no ! Jan Chapmans photo put up error instead of Janet Patterson In Memorium #Oscars2017 — Gillian Armstrong (@big_pix) February 27, 2017 Oh dear.  The #Oscars put up what I think is a photo of Jan Chapman, instead of Janet Patterson, for the In Memoriam segment. pic.twitter.com/VbnO7u3HoS — Rhett Bartlett (@dialmformovies) February 27, 2017 Oops. Did #Oscars just show living producer Jan Chapman in place of deceased costume designer Janet Patterson during In Memoriam?! — Stephen Groenewegen (@swgroenewegen) February 27, 2017 The Academy has not yet responded on social media. Immediate requests for comment were not returned. BONUS: There's a very good reason stars wore blue ribbons at the Oscars

A lot of famous people died in 2016 — producer Jan Chapman wasn't one of them.

The Oscars on Sunday accidentally put a picture of the Australian producer instead of designer Janet Patterson during its In Memoriam portion of the show.

Patterson, who designed looks for films including Far From the Madding Crowd and The Piano, died in October 2016.

Chapman, a producer who is still alive, worked with Patterson on films such as The Piano and Bright Star.

Chapman confirmed the mistake, and her vitality, to Variety Monday morning.

“I was devastated by the use of my image in place of my great friend and long-time collaborator Janet Patterson. I had urged her agency to check any photograph which might be used and understand that they were told that the Academy had it covered," she told Variety. "Janet was a great beauty and four-time Oscar nominee and it is very disappointing that the error was not picked up. I am alive and well and an active producer.”

Twitter was extremely quick to notice the mistake.

Pic of my pal Jan Chapman- very much alive - was just featured in In Memoriam. #Oscars — Virginia M Moncrieff (@VMMoncrieff) February 27, 2017

You've used a wrong pic for Janet Patterson @TheAcademy the multi-nominated costume designer. Wrongly used a pic of producer Jan Chapman. — Jenny Lavelle (@JennyLavelle_) February 27, 2017

Oh no ! Jan Chapmans photo put up error instead of Janet Patterson In Memorium #Oscars2017 — Gillian Armstrong (@big_pix) February 27, 2017

Oh dear. The #Oscars put up what I think is a photo of Jan Chapman, instead of Janet Patterson, for the In Memoriam segment. pic.twitter.com/VbnO7u3HoS — Rhett Bartlett (@dialmformovies) February 27, 2017

Oops. Did #Oscars just show living producer Jan Chapman in place of deceased costume designer Janet Patterson during In Memoriam?! — Stephen Groenewegen (@swgroenewegen) February 27, 2017

The Academy has not yet responded on social media. Immediate requests for comment were not returned.