Lesbians are much more likely to ORGASM during sex
Lesbians are much more likely to ORGASM during sex


It seems straight women are missing out when it comes to climaxing.

In what could be proof that men are useless in bed, a new study has found they are much less likely to orgasm during sex than lesbians.

While 95 per cent of straight men always orgasm during sex, less than two thirds (65 per cent) of women do, according to a study of more than 50,000 people.

But the 'orgasm gap' is smaller between homosexual people, with 89 per cent of gay men and 86 per cent of lesbians saying that they orgasm during every sexual encounter.

Scroll down for video

Scientists from California have revealed that lesbians and straight men are much more likely to climax during sex than straight women

THE 'GOLDEN TRIO' Researchers said the secret to the female orgasm, which they call the 'golden trio', involves a combination of genital stimulation, deep kissing and oral sex. They found that 80 per cent of straight women and 91 per cent of lesbians reported that they always or usually orgasm from this combination.

Scientists from Chapman University in the California asked 52,000 people aged between 18 and 65 to take part in an online survey.

All participants were US-based and part of a monogamous relationship.

They asked people of different sexual orientations whether they 'always' or 'usually' have an orgasm during sex.

'We had the rare opportunity to look at responses from over 50,000 people, including over 2,000 gay, lesbian, and bisexual men and women,' Dr David Frederick, lead author of the research from Chapman University, told the Guardian.

The study also found that two thirds (66 per cent) of bisexual women frequently orgasm, while 88 per cent of bisexual men do.

'The orgasm gaps between men and heterosexual women were well known prior to this study,' said Dr Frederick.

While 95 per cent of straight men always orgasm during sex, less than two thirds (65 per cent) of women do, according to the study of more than 50,000 people

PROPORTION OF PEOPLE WHO USUALLY ORGASM DURING SEX 65% of heterosexual women 66% of bisexual women 86% of lesbian women 88% of bisexual men 89% of gay men 95% of heterosexual men

'The gaps between lesbian women and heterosexual women, however, were more speculative or based on small samples of lesbian women.

'This study highlights much more precisely that there are multiple orgasm gaps.'

The researchers said that homosexual women may orgasm more often than heterosexual women because lesbians have a better 'understanding' of what makes a woman aroused.

Men are more likely to hold the misguided belief that vaginal sex is key to the female orgasm, according to the researchers.

'About 30 per cent of men actually think that intercourse is the best way for women to have orgasm, and that is sort of a tragic figure because it couldn't be more incorrect,' said co-author of the research Elisabeth Lloyd, a professor of biology at Indiana University and author of The Case of the Female Orgasm.

'To say that there needs to be some education I think is an understatement.'

According to the study, close to half (44 per cent) of straight women said they are unable to climax from vaginal sex alone.

Researchers said the key to reaching orgasm, which they call the 'golden trio', involves a combination of genital stimulation, deep kissing and oral sex.

They found that 80 per cent of straight women and 91 per cent of lesbians always or usually orgasm from this combination.

The study also found that while 41 per cent of straight men believe their partner always reaches orgasm, only one third (33 per cent) of women actually do.

Dr Lloyd said: 'Part of this difference in perception could be due to women faking orgasms, which research has suggested women will do for a variety of reasons, including out of love for their partner, to protect their partner's self-esteem, intoxication, or to bring the sexual encounter to an end.'

The study was published in the journal Archives of Sexual Behaviour.