Barcelona brothel offers choice of sex dolls
Europe's first brothel featuring dolls opens in Spain


A newly-opened club in Barcelona claims to be the first in Europe to offer clients the chance to have sex with a doll.

Lumi Dolls says men (or women) can get into the mood by having low lighting in their room, candles and huge plasma TV screens to watch some racy movies.

As a special offer, an hour with one of the life-sized dolls is £70 which will go up to £100 after the opening promotion.

A brothel in Barcelona is offering clients the chance to have sex with female sex dolls

The club claims each of the dolls weighs about 40kgs and is worth about £4,300 when new

Clients can request one of the four different dolls to be dressed or placed an a special position

There are four dolls to choose from, all with female body features and the club promises each one is washed and disinfected with anti-bacterial soap before it is re-used!

Each of the dolls, which cost £4,300 and weighs 40 kilograms, are made from silicone.

Clients can choose from Lili, who is 161 cm tall and has Asian features; the blonde and 'big-boobed' Katy, who at 170 cm has pouty lips and piercing turquoise eyes; an 'African' doll named Leiza who stands at 168cm tall or Aki, who with blue hair appears to be modelled on Japanese anime.

Describing itself as 'the first sex dolls agency', Lumi Dolls has a rather delicate question and answer section on its website says of the quartet: 'They are totally realistic dolls, both in the movement of their joints and in the touch, that will allow you to fulfill your fantasies without any limit. These Sex Dolls will make the experience more pleasurable, exciting and erotic.'

Clients, who are advised to 'still use a condom', have to pay at the front desk on leaving.

They can even ask in advance for the dolls to wear a special outfit and to be placed in a specific position.

The club claims each of the dolls is cleaned thoroughly with disinfectant wipes

The new club is proving such a success that sessions are already booked up days in advance.

Similar dolls are already a great hit in Japan and Malaysia.

According to the website, appointments can also be made for entire nights or for couples.