BACK STORY

RMIT ABC FACT CHECK - WHY IS IT NEEDED & HOW WILL IT WORK?  The digital tsunami
sweeping through the media has made reporting the news tougher. The collapse of
newspaper advertising revenue has seen the exit of “readers” (remember them?
they were a scholarly group who checked every word in a newspaper before it was
published), check subs and a slide in sub-editing standards with the task being
outsourced. This erosion of checks and balances coincides with the explosion in
24/7 publishing both online, on TV and on social media. Media outlets today
publish more information than ever before but with fewer quality controls and
in far less time. The viral growth of social media has brought with it “fake
news” and fears of a “post truth” world. In the disruptive chaos transactional
reporting (if you scratch my back, I’ll scratch yours) has proliferated as some
reporters become increasing reliant on sources to stay up with or ahead of each
other.  RMIT ABC Fact Check, a
fresh innovative partnership, brings together the research capabilities of the
university and the editorial experience and expertise of the ABC. Based in
RMIT’s soon to be opened media precinct, Fact Check aspires to combine the best
practices of journalism and academic scholarship to bring insight and
understanding to contested public policy issues. Fact Check will not be reliant
on interns or students, but a full-time professional research staff drawn from
academia and journalism. It will however provide an excellent learning
opportunity for students with an eye on a career in the media. As with ABC Fact
Check, determinations will be published across all ABC platforms in line with
established standards.  There is never a
shortage of claims to check, suggestions come via email, twitter and Facebook,
other reporters and politicians. Once a claim is identified as having that “could
that be right?” quality, it is dissected line by line. A claim must be
clear and must be checkable, that is, there must be relevant credible data to
check it against. Fact Check as pioneered at the ABC has a rigorous system that
involves extensive research (of available data and or documents); multiple
checking and consulting acknowledged experts. If there are doubts about the
verdict or the methodology adopted, it may go to an outside expert panel for an
independent opinion before the chief fact checker gives it a thorough final
once over. Our internal checks and balances are extensive and deliberately
so. Better to miss a deadline, than get a fact wrong.  We have the time
that reporters working under pressure rarely have. Not all claims are checkable such as
those involving the future. Some areas are complex and the data so vague they
are abandoned. Some boil down to pure opinion or speculation. We don’t seek to
be truth tellers, but provide audiences with the most informed factual
assessment. Verdicts are nuanced to fit the findings. The focus is on the claim
not the person.  The best most powerful
reporting is driven by facts, not ideology or some uninformed preconceived
notion of what the story is or should be. I have known editors who wrote the
headline and lay out the page before a reporter picked up the phone. I have
embarked on assignments where it seemed obvious to all involved, including
myself, what the story was only to find out it was not the story at all.
 Fact check journalism embodies basic well-established reporting values
that have guided my professional approach as both an editor, author and reporter.
With the legacy media in structural turmoil, reporters under 24/7 pressure and
everywhere you look politics riven by ideology, factually based journalism
injects balance to the distortions, the chaos and the propaganda.

(Russell Skelton, Director of RMIT ABC Fact Check - Photo: ABC News)

With more than 40 years experience in journalism, Russell Skelton has witnessed extraordinary change in public policy debate and how it is reported. The award winning journalist, editor, author and founding editor of the ABC Fact Check Unit is now heading an innovative fact checking collaboration with RMIT in Melbourne. Back Story asked Russell about how RMIT ABC Fact Check will operate and why there’s a need for fact checking units.

RUSSELL SKELTON: The digital tsunami sweeping through the media has made reporting the news tougher. The collapse of newspaper advertising revenue has seen the exit of “readers” (remember them? they were a scholarly group who checked every word in a newspaper before it was published), check subs and a slide in sub-editing standards with the task being outsourced. This erosion of checks and balances coincides with the explosion in 24/7 publishing both online, on TV and on social media. Media outlets today publish more information than ever before but with fewer quality controls and in far less time. The viral growth of social media has brought with it “fake news” and fears of a “post truth” world. In the disruptive chaos transactional reporting (if you scratch my back, I’ll scratch yours) has proliferated as some reporters become increasing reliant on sources to stay up with or ahead of each other.

How will the RMIT ABC Fact Check Unit operate?

RUSSELL SKELTON: RMIT ABC Fact Check, a fresh innovative partnership, brings together the research capabilities of the university and the editorial experience and expertise of the ABC. Based in RMIT’s soon to be opened media precinct, Fact Check aspires to combine the best practices of journalism and academic scholarship to bring insight and understanding to contested public policy issues. Fact Check will not be reliant on interns or students, but a full-time professional research staff drawn from academia and journalism. It will however provide an excellent learning opportunity for students with an eye on a career in the media. As with ABC Fact Check, determinations will be published across all ABC platforms in line with established standards.

What’s involved in investigating a particular claim for a Fact Check story?

RUSSELL SKELTON: There is never a shortage of claims to check, suggestions come via email, twitter and Facebook, other reporters and politicians. Once a claim is identified as having that “could that be right?” quality, it is dissected line by line. A claim must be clear and must be checkable, that is, there must be relevant credible data to check it against. Fact Check as pioneered at the ABC has a rigorous system that involves extensive research (of available data and or documents); multiple checking and consulting acknowledged experts. If there are doubts about the verdict or the methodology adopted, it may go to an outside expert panel for an independent opinion before the chief fact checker gives it a thorough final once over. Our internal checks and balances are extensive and deliberately so. Better to miss a deadline, than get a fact wrong. We have the time that reporters working under pressure rarely have.

Not all claims are checkable such as those involving the future. Some areas are complex and the data so vague they are abandoned. Some boil down to pure opinion or speculation. We don’t seek to be truth tellers, but provide audiences with the most informed factual assessment. Verdicts are nuanced to fit the findings. The focus is on the claim not the person.

This collaboration and re-launch of Fact Check has been driven by you, why are you so passionate about this type of journalism?

RUSSELL SKELTON: The best most powerful reporting is driven by facts, not ideology or some uninformed preconceived notion of what the story is or should be. I have known editors who wrote the headline and lay out the page before a reporter picked up the phone. I have embarked on assignments where it seemed obvious to all involved, including myself, what the story was only to find out it was not the story at all. Fact check journalism embodies basic well-established reporting values that have guided my professional approach as both an editor, author and reporter. With the legacy media in structural turmoil, reporters under 24/7 pressure and everywhere you look politics riven by ideology, factually based journalism injects balance to the distortions, the chaos and the propaganda.

More stories about fact checking here.

Click here to return to the Back Story home page and catch up on stories from the past four years on our archive page.