More Than Half Of Americans Think The Media Is Too Tough On Trump
More Than Half Of Americans Think The Media Is Too Tough On Trump
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Mark Joyella       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President Donald Trump during a news conference at the White House on February 16, 2017. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images) President Trump has repeatedly complained he can't get a fair shake from the news media, and--by a narrow margin--a majority of Americans agree. A poll released Sunday by and NBC News, which polled 1,000 Americans, finds 51% of Americans believe the media has been too critical of Trump, while 41% think news coverage has been fair and objective, and 6% say the media hasn't been tough enough. The split largely runs along party lines, with Republicans solidly backing Trump's belief that journalists have made up bogus stories in an attempt to damage Trump's presidency. Data: Wall Street Journal/NBC Poll. Graphic: FORBES staff (Hayley C. Cuccinello). Asked if they believe the news media is "exaggerating the problems with the Trump Administration because they are uncomfortable and threatened with the kind of change Trump represents," 89% of Republicans agreed. Overall, the figure falls to 53%, with just 21% of Democrats buying in to the "fake news" claims. The poll found similar splits depending on where Americans get their news, with Fox News viewers most likely (81%) to believe that the news media has been "too critical" of Trump. Only 19% of people who watch MSNBC felt the same way. The poll comes just two days after the President promised to "do something" about "fake news," and White House press secretary Sean Spicer banned reporters from major news organizations including The New York Times and CNN from attending an off-camera news briefing held in his office. Last week, a Quinnipiac poll found Americans similarly split, but with a majority (52%) trusting the news media over Donald Trump to tell the truth about important issues. Just 37% said they trusted Trump more. The issue of trust may explain Trump's overall approval rating in the new poll. At just 44%, Trump has set a new low for approval of a president in his first weeks in office. Asked to rate the President on the issue of "being honest and trustworthy," 41% gave Trump the lowest possible score, "very poor," with just 19% giving Trump high marks on honesty. The WSJ/NBC poll was conducted by phone between February 18 and 22, surveying 1,000 American adults. The poll has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

President Trump has repeatedly complained he can't get a fair shake from the news media, and--by a narrow margin--a majority of Americans agree.

A poll released Sunday by The Wall Street Journal and NBC News, which polled 1,000 Americans, finds 51% of Americans believe the media has been too critical of Trump, while 41% think news coverage has been fair and objective, and 6% say the media hasn't been tough enough.

The split largely runs along party lines, with Republicans solidly backing Trump's belief that journalists have made up bogus stories in an attempt to damage Trump's presidency.

Asked if they believe the news media is "exaggerating the problems with the Trump Administration because they are uncomfortable and threatened with the kind of change Trump represents," 89% of Republicans agreed. Overall, the figure falls to 53%, with just 21% of Democrats buying in to the "fake news" claims.

The poll found similar splits depending on where Americans get their news, with Fox News viewers most likely (81%) to believe that the news media has been "too critical" of Trump. Only 19% of people who watch MSNBC felt the same way.

The poll comes just two days after the President promised to "do something" about "fake news," and White House press secretary Sean Spicer banned reporters from major news organizations including The New York Times and CNN from attending an off-camera news briefing held in his office.

Last week, a Quinnipiac poll found Americans similarly split, but with a majority (52%) trusting the news media over Donald Trump to tell the truth about important issues. Just 37% said they trusted Trump more.

The issue of trust may explain Trump's overall approval rating in the new poll. At just 44%, Trump has set a new low for approval of a president in his first weeks in office.

Asked to rate the President on the issue of "being honest and trustworthy," 41% gave Trump the lowest possible score, "very poor," with just 19% giving Trump high marks on honesty.

The WSJ/NBC poll was conducted by phone between February 18 and 22, surveying 1,000 American adults. The poll has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.