Guido van Helten: Giant figures appear on rural silos
Giant figures appear on rural silos
Concrete giants: Arresting figures appear on rural grain silos Updated 0309 GMT (1109 HKT) February 27, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Australian artist Guido van Helten is famous for turning industrial silos into art His current work depicts five children on a 30-meter-high grain silo The imposing grain silo situated in the small Australian town of Coonalpyn has dominated the region's rural landscape for over 50 years, but has never garnered much attention. Artistic revival JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Working large Local inspiration

(CNN) The imposing grain silo situated in the small Australian town of Coonalpyn has dominated the region's rural landscape for over 50 years, but has never garnered much attention.

That was, until the arrival of artist Guido van Helten.

Atop his cherry-picker, van Helten spends his days painting the 30-meter-high, five tower silo. Now he and the silo have become something of an attraction, drawing in curious sightseers and creating a buzz around the once sleepy town.

"Yeah, admittedly, it's kind of an odd thing to do. Paint giant things on buildings," says van Helten. "They're really interesting surfaces and a lot of them are unused. It's only natural for me to want to try to paint them."

Artistic revival

Despite the town's location on a major highway between the large cities of Melbourne and Adelaide, the South Australian farming community, which has a population of just 215 people, has seen its fortunes dwindle in recent years.

In order to reverse the town's decline, the locals and their district council brought in van Helten as part of an arts led project to reinvigorate the area.

JUST WATCHED An unlikely outlet for creating street art Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH An unlikely outlet for creating street art 01:30

Local resident Brett Dewhurst has been watching van Helten's progress from the beginning. He owns the recently opened Coonalpyn Silos Cafe and has, arguably, the best viewpoint in town.

"It's just sensational, I've never seen art like that, it's on a different scale to what you normally see," Dewhurst says.

"Not long ago there was just nothing to stop for here. The town was just getting slower and slower. Now there's a lot of buzz and a lot of new people coming through to have a look. There were actually people from America in our cafe the other day."

Working large

This is not van Helten's first silo project. Back in 2015 the artist made headlines when he painted a decommissioned silo in the Australian country town of Brim, Victoria. The work -- part of a planned 200 kilometer (125 mile) "outdoor art trail" that will eventually run through six small towns in the region's wheatbelt -- attracted international attention and helped revitalize the small community.

Since then the Australian based artist has traveled internationally painting murals, not only on silos, but also on walls and the sides of buildings in the US, Mexico and across Europe, in countries as diverse as Ukraine, Poland, Finland, Belgium and Iceland.

"I like the idea of making work where it doesn't previously exist. Then you're bringing something new to a place and you get a lot of interesting reactions," says van Helten. "I'm not focused on making works where it's already saturated."

Some projects, he says, are about reinvigorating spaces, using art as a way to promote investment in an area, exemplified by his silo projects in Coonalpyn and Brim. Others are used to promote awareness of issues he's passionate about.

"I want to highlight things that I care about and things that people should know about, like my work in Ukraine and the ongoing war there," says van Helten.

Likened to giant black and white photographs, his works can take anything from ten days to a month to complete.

With a background in traditional graffiti painting, van Helten is used to working on unconventional surfaces with larger scales.

"I enjoy working large because a detail that you would see far away as very precise is actually very loose up close," he says. "There's a lot of texture and a lot of different mark making that goes into it, but when you stand back it comes together."

Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A stenciled image of two policemen kissing is seen in London in 2005. "Kissing Coppers" is one of Banksy's most famous works. Click through the gallery for a look at some of his other notable pieces. Hide Caption 1 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist In June 2016 elusive UK street artist Banksy painted this mural for students at a primary school in his hometown of Bristol, England. Students had named a house at their school for the artist, who surprised them with the mural when they returned from a holiday break. Hide Caption 2 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist On January 25, a new mural by street artist Banksy appeared on the French Embassy in London, criticising the French authorities' reported use of teargas in a refugee camp in Calais, France. A riff on the iconic Les Misérables poster, it shows a young girl enveloped by CS gas, crying. Hide Caption 3 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A mural of a weeping woman, painted by the British street artist Banksy, is seen in Khan Yunis, Gaza, on Wednesday, April 1. The mural was painted on a door of a house destroyed last summer during the fighting between Israel and Hamas. The owner of the house said he was tricked into selling the door for the equivalent of $175, not realizing the painting was by the famously anonymous artist. Hide Caption 4 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A Palestinian child stands next to a Banksy mural of a kitten on the remains of a destroyed house in Beit Hanoun, Gaza, in February 2015. Hide Caption 5 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A child in Beit Hanoun walks past a mural February 2015 that depicts children using an Israeli watchtower as a swing ride. Hide Caption 6 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A Banksy mural depicting pigeons holding anti-immigration signs was destroyed by the local council in Clacton-on-Sea, England, in October 2014 after the council received complaints that the artwork was offensive. Hide Caption 7 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A Banksy work appears at a youth center in Bristol, England, in April 2014. Called " Mobile Lovers ," it features a couple embracing while checking their cell phones. Members of the youth center took down the piece from a wall on a Bristol street and replaced it with a note saying the work was being held at the club "to prevent vandalism or damage being done." The discovery came shortly after another image believed to be by Banksy surfaced in Cheltenham, England. Hide Caption 8 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A boy walks past graffiti street art believed to be by Banksy in April 2014. The image depicts men in trench coats and dark glasses holding old-fashioned listening equipment -- apparently a commentary on government surveillance. The artwork appeared on the side of a house in Cheltenham near the Government Communications Headquarters, the UK equivalent of the National Security Agency. Hide Caption 9 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A set of balloons that reads "BANKSY!" is seen off the Long Island Expressway in Queens, New York, in October 2013. Banksy artwork appeared all over New York that month. Hide Caption 10 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy also offered up a T-shirt design on his website for fans to download and print on their own. Hide Caption 11 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A leopard placed on the wall of New York's Yankee Stadium was revealed in October 2013. Hide Caption 12 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist "The Banality of the Banality of Evil" actually started out as a thrift store painting in New York City. Once altered by Banksy, who inserted an image of a Nazi officer sitting on a bench, it was re-donated to the store in October 2013, according to the artist's site Hide Caption 13 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy's art exhibit "Grim Reaper Bumper Car" sits on New York's Lower East Side in October 2013. The famously anonymous artist, whose paintings regularly go for six figures at auction houses around the world, said he was on a "residency on the streets of New York." Hide Caption 14 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A Banksy piece covers the main entrance to Larry Flynt's Hustler Club in New York's Hell's Kitchen in October 2013. Hide Caption 15 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy's replica of the Great Sphinx of Giza was made in Queens out of smashed cinder blocks. Hide Caption 16 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy's "Ghetto 4 Life" appeared in the Bronx in October 2013. New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg suggested that Banksy was breaking the law with his guerrilla art exhibits, but the New York Police Department denied it was actively searching for him. Hide Caption 17 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy art is seen on the Upper West Side of New York in October 2013. Hide Caption 18 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy work in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York, was vandalized in broad daylight in October 2013. Hide Caption 19 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist One of Banksy's pieces is this fiberglass sculpture of Ronald McDonald having his shoes shined in front of a Bronx McDonald's. Hide Caption 20 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Graffiti depicting the Twin Towers popped up in the Tribeca neighborhood of New York in October 2013. Hide Caption 21 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy's "Sirens of the Lambs" art installation tours the streets of Manhattan in October 2013. It was a fake slaughterhouse delivery truck full of stuffed animals. Hide Caption 22 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy's "Concrete Confessional" is seen on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Hide Caption 23 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A Banksy mural is seen on a wall in Queens. The quote is from the movie "Gladiator." It says, "What we do in life echoes in eternity." Hide Caption 24 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A woman poses with Banksy's painting of a heart-shaped balloon covered in bandages. The piece, in the Red Hook neighborhood of Brooklyn, was defaced with red spray paint shortly after it was completed. Hide Caption 25 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A Banksy mural of a dog urinating on a fire hydrant draws attention Hide Caption 26 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist This installation, seen in October 2013, on the Lower East Side of New York, depicts stampeding horses in night-vision goggles. Thought to be a commentary on the Iraq War, it also included an audio soundtrack Hide Caption 27 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Gallery assistants adjust Banksy's "Love Is in the Air" ahead of an auction in London in June 2013. The piece was sold for $248,776. Hide Caption 28 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist "The Crayola Shooter" is found in Los Angeles in 2011. It shows a child wielding a machine gun and using crayons for bullets. Hide Caption 29 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist People walk past a Banksy painting of a dog urinating on a wall in Beverly Hills, California, in 2011. Hide Caption 30 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Banksy murals popped up around New Orleans a day before the third anniversary of Hurricane Katrina in 2008. Hide Caption 31 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A silhouette of a child holding a refrigerator-shaped kite is seen on a wall in New Orleans in 2008. Hide Caption 32 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist Graffiti on the side of a building in New Orleans shows an elderly person in a rocking chair under the banner, "No Loitering," in 2008. Hide Caption 33 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A scene titled "Chicken Nuggets," from Banksy's "The Village Pet Store and Charcoal Grill," is seen in New York in 2008. Hide Caption 34 of 35 Photos: Banksy, the elusive street artist A man walks past a Banksy piece in London in 2006. Hide Caption 35 of 35

Local inspiration

No mural is ever planned in advance. Instead van Helten likes to arrive in a place and spend time getting to know his surroundings and the people.

"When I think about a site, I think about where I am, the society, the culture and the people. It's something that I put a lot of importance on...I go with a camera and speak to people. Often the subject matter will just present itself to me."

Van Helton paints a Native American from the Apache Tribe, in Fort Smith, Arkansas

In Coonalpyn, van Helten has taken inspiration from the town's school children. It's a conscious decision to look towards the future, in a town with only a small number of young people and an older generation with a predilection for looking to the past.

"There's a lot of nostalgia in the world right now, for times gone by, that's just not really inclusive of future generations. I want people to think about the next generation and how they are going to live."

The town's residents are under no illusion van Helten's work will single-handedly turn their community's fortunes around, but there is now a growing sense of optimism about the future.

"I don't think it will ever get back to the way it used to be," says Dewhurst. "But it should be able to sustain itself, instead of being a ghost town."

"I hope they make the silos bigger and he comes back and does more paintings."