36 Backstage Photos From The 2017 Academy Awards
36 Backstage Photos From The 2017 Academy Awards
Jimmy Kimmel before stepping on stage as the host of the 2017 Oscars. Mahershala Ali and Ryan Gosling looking dapper AF. Trevante Rhodes and Andre Holland, the adult Chiron and Kevin in respectively, also looking dapper AF. The reunion of Matt Damon and Ben Affleck. A sweet moment between Janelle Monae, Taraji P. Henson, Octavia Spencer, and NASA mathematician Katherine Johnson, who Henson portrays in . The adorable stars of , Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone.    Honestly, does it get any cuter than these two? Oh yes, it does: Here’s Brie Larson and Emma Stone embracing after Stone won for Best Actress. And here’s Taraji P. Henson feeling all sorts of things about Auli’i Cravalho’s performance of “How Far I’ll Go” from . Trevante Rhodes and Ashton Sanders, who both play Chiron at different points in his life in , sharing a joyous moment. Viola Davis looking radiant after winning her first Oscar. Amy Adams, who presented at Oscars — and who some think was snubbed for a Best Actress nomination for her performance in .  screenwriter Tarell Alvin McCraney and writer/director Barry Jenkins after they won Best Adapted Screenplay. Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux, looking like all of us after the end of the show. And looking like we all wish we did   Meryl Streep, who was nominated for her 20th Oscar on Sunday night. Presenter Samuel L. Jackson in his navy and black tux. Sting, who performed his Oscar-nominated song “The Empty Chair” from . Chrissy Teigen and John Legend being relationship goals. Best Actor Casey Affleck and Best Actress Emma Stone after their respective wins. And here’s Denzel Washington, who was nominated for Best Actor, but lost to Affleck. Here’s Brie Larson and Amy Adams sharing a laugh. And Leonardo DiCaprio and Emma Stone after he presented her with the Best Actress Oscar. Look at these two! D’awwwwww. Hailee Steinfeld, who presented at the 89th Academy Awards. Charlize Theron and Shirley MacLaine preparing before presenting Best Foreign Language Film. Jennifer Aniston and Nicole Kidman embrace. Ashton Sanders and Jharrel Jerome, who play teenage versions of Chiron and Kevin in , celebrate. So. Much. Love. Casey Affleck and Leonardo DiCaprio, both Best Actor winners. Cast members and crew from both and on stage together after the Best Picture mishap . Alex Hibbert and Jharrel Jerome after learning won Best Picture. Warren Beatty and Mahershala Ali after the Best Picture win reversal. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ CORRECTION      “Feud” Season 2 Will Focus On Princess Diana And Prince...    Everyone Made The Same Joke About The Best Picture...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.