Future's 'HNDRXX' on Pace for No. 1 Debut
Future's 'HNDRXX' on Pace for No. 1 Debut
It's not quite official yet, but Future's is projected to debut at No. 1 this week, which would give him his second No. 1 record in just two weeks. According to , HNDRXX will move between 110,000-125,000 units. Not bad. Just a few days ago, his self-titled release hit No. 1 on Billboard's Top 200 album chart, giving him his fourth No. 1 album of his career. If the prediction that will land at the top spot is indeed correct, the Atlanta-based rapper would become the first person in the 60+ year history of the Billboard 200 chart to have new albums crack the No. 1 spot in back-to-back weeks. While that would seem to be a pretty big accomplishment in and of itself, there were actually rumors that he would be dropping a third album this week. Those were only strengthened after a self-appointed sleuth from discovered the description for this upcoming Thursday's (March 2) episode of said that Future was "attempting to have three #1 albums in a row in three weeks – which will make him the first in history to do that!" In addition (or perhaps ) that, also speculated that this third album could be just days away from an official announcement. However, any hopes that there is truth to that gossip should quickly be extinguished, as Future's manager, Anthony Saleh, called that speculation "FALSE." Note that we didn't make up the all-caps part: FALSE " @thefader : Future is releasing another album this week, according to The Ellen Show. https://t.co/wKpVhAtIMz  pic.twitter.com/tk8ilCXHUo " Seems like, if anybody would know, it would be him.

It's not quite official yet, but Future's HNDRXX is projected to debut at No. 1 this week, which would give him his second No. 1 record in just two weeks. According to HitsDailyDouble, HNDRXX will move between 110,000-125,000 units. Not bad. Just a few days ago, his self-titled release hit No. 1 on Billboard's Top 200 album chart, giving him his fourth No. 1 album of his career. If the prediction that HNDRXX will land at the top spot is indeed correct, the Atlanta-based rapper would become the first person in the 60+ year history of the Billboard 200 chart to have new albums crack the No. 1 spot in back-to-back weeks.

While that would seem to be a pretty big accomplishment in and of itself, there were actually rumors that he would be dropping a third album this week. Those were only strengthened after a self-appointed sleuth from Reddit discovered the description for this upcoming Thursday's (March 2) episode of The Ellen Degeneres Show said that Future was "attempting to have three #1 albums in a row in three weeks – which will make him the first in history to do that!" In addition (or perhaps because of) that, NPR also speculated that this third album could be just days away from an official announcement.

However, any hopes that there is truth to that gossip should quickly be extinguished, as Future's manager, Anthony Saleh, called that speculation "FALSE." Note that we didn't make up the all-caps part:

FALSE "@thefader: Future is releasing another album this week, according to The Ellen Show. https://t.co/wKpVhAtIMz pic.twitter.com/tk8ilCXHUo" — A Saleh (@Dude_Br0) February 27, 2017

Seems like, if anybody would know, it would be him.