The Industrious Formula For Productive Coworking Spaces
The Industrious Formula For Productive Coworking Spaces
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Katheryn Thayer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Industrious's Brooklyn office. Credit: Industrious. The Industrious office in LA. Credit: Industrious. A community manager at the Industrious office in Philadelphia. Credit: Industrious. Follow me on Twitter @KATontap    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Industrious is a coworking space, but corporate clients are welcome, too. Across 12 U.S. locations, fresh upstarts sit alongside teams from companies like Mashable, Instacart, Pinterest and Spotify. Cofounder and CEO Jamie Hodari wanted to offer shared amenities and social time to a diverse mix of teams — and help them actually get some work done. With thoughtful spaces and attentive service, he’s hoping to make it easier for companies to give employees a productive place to work.

Hodari first saw the need for a space like this when, starting a previous company, he realized how embarrassed he was to bring important partners back to his coworking space. “The Ikea Foundation funded the vast majority of our operations, and I was meeting with the president,” he says. “At the very last second, I realized I didn't feel comfortable having him hold a meeting at the workspace.” He moved the meeting to a coffee shop and started thinking about how coworking could be improved.

This experience made him realize that, while it’s important coworking spaces deliver fun and casual atmospheres, they need to also include more sedate areas for serious business.

“One of the big mistakes a lot of companies — and certainly a lot of coworking spaces — make is that they try to make everything feel loud and fuzzy and fun.” But most employees can’t be productive in a space like that all day. So Industrious spaces are built with a variety of needs in mind, from boardrooms to nap pods, party spaces to nursing rooms. Loud, bright areas invite casual collaboration, while private conference areas offer gravitas for client meetings.

And alongside thoughtful diversity of spaces, Industrious has prioritized hospitality services, so employees can focus on their work instead of office logistics. Industrious community managers stock snacks and set up new employees’ desks, plan parties and celebrate birthdays. And Hodari also gets sent stories of above-and-beyond service: hours spent helping a founder prepare for her citizenship test, craft beer picked up for a CEO whose cofounder quit.

Hodari wants his office spaces to operate like great hotels. It’s not about the amenities, it’s about service. “It would be hard to articulate what amenity a Four Seasons has that a DoubleTree doesn't. The beds don't spin. It's not like they have glass bottom pools. They just have an incredible service culture, and a way to make you feel looked out for.”

And hotels have inspired Industrious’s service culture very directly. The head of Hospitality, Rachael Gursky, previously worked for the St. Regis and W Hotels, and uses the high-end hotel chains training techniques to train staff. “The key to our customer service training is helping to build in people the observational power, and the sort of framework for being able to intuit what a customer is thinking, what they're feeling, to know either when they're frustrated with us, and how to ameliorate that, or when there's something going on in other parts of their life, that we can help out with,” Hodari says.

“Our goal, from the beginning, was to create a more social or communal work environment that takes advantage of sharing economy dynamics, but still is absolutely beautiful and professional enough that any American business can feel totally comfortable and proud of doing business there.”

Follow me on Twitter @KATontap