Eat Right To Keep Your 'Gut Bacteria' Healthy Because They Are The Key To Preventing Alzheimer's
Eat Right To Keep Your 'Gut Bacteria' Healthy Because They Help In Preventing Alzheimer's
Eat Right To Keep Your 'Gut Bacteria' Healthy Because They Are The Key To Preventing Alzheimer's There’s already been an increasing amount of evidence highlighting the connection between your gut health and your brain.  Our gut bacteria is closely linked to our feelings through the immune system Our gut bacteria has a major impact on how we feel because of the interaction it has with our immune system, our intestinal mucosa, and our diet. Although the composition of our gut is genetically decided at birth, our diet plays a crucial role going forward. Additionally, mice without any bacteria were tested to investigate the relationship intestinal bacteria and diseases. Mice without bacteria had significantly lower levels of beta-amyloid plaque—a plaque that causes the formation of lumps in the nerve fibres in your the brain in case you have Alzheimer’s disease. To substantiate the link between intestinal flora and the Alzheimer's, researchers transferred the beta-amyloid from the infected mice to the germ-free mice. As expected the germ-free mice ended up developing beta-amyloid plaques in their brain. These findings are significant to understand the role bacteria play to delay or even prevent Alzheimer's going forward The results produced by the study are unique as it shows a direct causal link between gut bacteria and Alzheimer’s disease. There was a drastic reduction in plaque that developed in the brain of the mice that lacked bacteria. T , an associate professor at the university’s Food for Health Science centre. This is a breakthrough as the only symptom-relieving antiretroviral drugs have been used up until now, adds Hallenius.

There’s already been an increasing amount of evidence highlighting the connection between your gut health and your brain. A recent study published on the 8th of Feb in the journal Scientific Reports states that unhealthy intestinal flora intensifies the development of Alzheimer’s disease.

onnit.com

The findings reveal that Alzheimer’s might be more preventable than previously thought out to be. The composition of gut bacteria consists of a mix of genetics and lifestyle factors. Diet, exercise, stress levels, and exposure to toxins define the bacterial makeup of your gut.

Our gut bacteria is closely linked to our feelings through the immune system

Our gut bacteria has a major impact on how we feel because of the interaction it has with our immune system, our intestinal mucosa, and our diet. Although the composition of our gut is genetically decided at birth, our diet plays a crucial role going forward.

Researchers from Lund University in Sweden reveals that mice with Alzheimer’s have a different bacterial profile in the gut when compared to one’s that don’t.

lotuspointwellness.com

Additionally, mice without any bacteria were tested to investigate the relationship intestinal bacteria and diseases. Mice without bacteria had significantly lower levels of beta-amyloid plaque—a plaque that causes the formation of lumps in the nerve fibres in your the brain in case you have Alzheimer’s disease.

To substantiate the link between intestinal flora and the Alzheimer's, researchers transferred the beta-amyloid from the infected mice to the germ-free mice. As expected the germ-free mice ended up developing beta-amyloid plaques in their brain.

These findings are significant to understand the role bacteria play to delay or even prevent Alzheimer's going forward

The results produced by the study are unique as it shows a direct causal link between gut bacteria and Alzheimer’s disease. There was a drastic reduction in plaque that developed in the brain of the mice that lacked bacteria. These results are going to open up new avenues of research into findings that may eventually lead to preventing and delaying the onset of the disease, states Dr Frida Fak Hallenius, the author, an associate professor at the university’s Food for Health Science centre.

cdn.thedailybeast.com

This is a breakthrough as the only symptom-relieving antiretroviral drugs have been used up until now, adds Hallenius. Our diet is responsible for shaping the microbial community in our gut, so dietary strategies will be critical to modulate the gut bacteria to a healthier state.

Don't Miss 12.5 K SHARES 7.1 K SHARES 1.3 K SHARES 148 SHARES 125 SHARES

The future looks promising for the on-going research

The research is the result of an international collaboration between Associate Professor Frida Fåk Hållenius and doctoral student Nittaya Marungruang, both at the Food for Health Science Centre in Lund and a research group at the Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne in Switzerland.

theplate.nationalgeographic.com

The research has now received an SEK grant of 50 million EU to continue studying the role bacteria plays in the development of Alzheimer’s disease. They hope to develop preventive and therapeutic strategies through the modulation of the gut microbiota through dietary interventions and different types of probiotics.

With inputs from Science Daily