Jay Z Will Co-Produce the Film Adaptation of Lin-Manuel Miranda's 'In the Heights'
Jay Z Will Co-Produce the Film Adaptation of Lin-Manuel Miranda's 'In the Heights'
Jay Z has landed a new movie deal. Over the weekend, it was announced the 47-year-old hip-hop mogul will co-produce the film adaptation of , Lin-Manuel Miranda ’s 2008 Broadway musical. According to , industry heavyweight Harvey Weinstein broke the news during his pre-Oscars party on Sunday. It was reported back in September that Jay had inked an exclusive first-look deal with the Weinstein Company to develop movies as well as scripted and unscripted TV programs. “I’m excited to tell stories from real-life prophets, whom through their struggles have changed the world for the better, and others whose stories are filled with fantasy and delight,” Jay said in statement . “Harvey and David are visionaries both of whom have done this time and time again. I’m already passionate about what we currently have in the pipeline and I’m looking forward to discovering others.” is a Tony award-winning musical that follows characters living in the predominately Latino neighborhood of Washington Heights in NYC. The piece features everything from hip-hop to salsa to merengue musical numbers. Though there isn’t any word on casting, it was revealed Jay will be one of the film’s six producers, including theater producer Scott Sander. Miranda told the movie musical is scheduled to begin shooting in the spring. is the latest film project for Jay. He has also received credits in movies such as , , and the documentary series .

Jay Z has landed a new movie deal. Over the weekend, it was announced the 47-year-old hip-hop mogul will co-produce the film adaptation of In the Heights, Lin-Manuel Miranda’s 2008 Broadway musical.

According to Page Six, industry heavyweight Harvey Weinstein broke the news during his pre-Oscars party on Sunday. It was reported back in September that Jay had inked an exclusive first-look deal with the Weinstein Company to develop movies as well as scripted and unscripted TV programs.

“I’m excited to tell stories from real-life prophets, whom through their struggles have changed the world for the better, and others whose stories are filled with fantasy and delight,” Jay said in statement. “Harvey and David are visionaries both of whom have done this time and time again. I’m already passionate about what we currently have in the pipeline and I’m looking forward to discovering others.”

In the Heights is a Tony award-winning musical that follows characters living in the predominately Latino neighborhood of Washington Heights in NYC. The piece features everything from hip-hop to salsa to merengue musical numbers.

Though there isn’t any word on casting, it was revealed Jay will be one of the film’s six producers, including theater producer Scott Sander. Miranda told Variety the movie musical is scheduled to begin shooting in the spring.

In the Heights is the latest film project for Jay. He has also received credits in movies such as Top Five, Annie, The Great Gatsby, and the documentary series The Kalief Browder Story.