Was This Tweet the Reason 'La La Land' Was Announced as Best Picture Instead of 'Moonlight'?
Was This Tweet the Reason 'La La Land' Was Announced as Best Picture Instead of 'Moonlight'?
The 89th annual Academy Awards will always be associated with the most embarrassing mistake in the event’s history: was erroneously announced as the Best Picture winner over . The mixup immediately set social media ablaze, with many people questioning how such an error could have occurred during the biggest moment of the Hollywood’s biggest. Who dropped the ball? And, most importantly, how? Well, we might have an Emma Stone stan to blame. As we previously reported , a managing partner for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP had mistakenly handed Warren Beatty the wrong envelope, which was read by Faye Dunaway. The presenters clearly weren’t at fault, but how did the PwC accountant, Brian Cullinan, not realize he had provided the wrong card? Well, as pointed out by , Cullinan may have been too distracted by the star of . Moments after Stone accepted the award for Best Leading Actress, Cullinan took a photo of her backstage and posted it to his Twitter account, about three minutes before Beatty and Dunaway took the stage. The tweet has since been deleted, but many are pointing to the post as evidence of Cullinan’s carelessness. I once thought Cullinan could survive this. That was before part of the story became him gawking at Emma Stone. Probably needs to resign. @corbydavidson Culprit is Brian Cullinan. he tweeted a photo of Emma Stone with her oscar 2 min before warren and Faye took the stage Welp, there you go. The accountant was busy tweeting, distracted. His last tweet (all now deleted) was with Emma Stone backstage. #Oscars  https://t.co/I4H0BvNWXL On Monday, PwC sent out a tweet in which it took full responsibility for the gaffe. You can read the full statement below. pic.twitter.com/uNGSbhgKFt

The 89th annual Academy Awards will always be associated with the most embarrassing mistake in the event’s history: La La Land was erroneously announced as the Best Picture winner over Moonlight.

The mixup immediately set social media ablaze, with many people questioning how such an error could have occurred during the biggest moment of the Hollywood’s biggest. Who dropped the ball? And, most importantly, how?

Well, we might have an Emma Stone stan to blame.

As we previously reported, a managing partner for PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP had mistakenly handed Warren Beatty the wrong envelope, which was read by Faye Dunaway. The presenters clearly weren’t at fault, but how did the PwC accountant, Brian Cullinan, not realize he had provided the wrong card?

Well, as pointed out by The Daily Dot, Cullinan may have been too distracted by the star of La La Land. Moments after Stone accepted the award for Best Leading Actress, Cullinan took a photo of her backstage and posted it to his Twitter account, about three minutes before Beatty and Dunaway took the stage.

The tweet has since been deleted, but many are pointing to the post as evidence of Cullinan’s carelessness.

I once thought Cullinan could survive this. That was before part of the story became him gawking at Emma Stone. Probably needs to resign. — Big4Veteran (@Big4Veteran) February 27, 2017

@corbydavidson Culprit is Brian Cullinan. he tweeted a photo of Emma Stone with her oscar 2 min before warren and Faye took the stage — Ricktown (@ricktown) February 27, 2017

Welp, there you go. The accountant was busy tweeting, distracted. His last tweet (all now deleted) was with Emma Stone backstage. #Oscars https://t.co/I4H0BvNWXL — Mark C. Worth (@markcworth) February 28, 2017

On Monday, PwC sent out a tweet in which it took full responsibility for the gaffe. You can read the full statement below.