Why It's So Cold In Outer Space
Why It's So Cold In Outer Space
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Quora       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock . The reason outer space is so cold is because cold is what you get when there is no source of heat nearby. At our distance from the sun, if you put, say, a Mac Truck in space, the side facing the sun will quickly get hot enough to burn you. The reason is obvious: sunlight contains energy, and in near-Earth space, there is no atmosphere to filter that energy, so it’s even more intense than it is down here. Now, on Earth, if you put something out in the sun, it warms up. The air picks up some of that warmth and rises, and the resulting current wicks heat away. In space, none of that can happen. Space is like a giant thermos, a perfect insulator, so our hypothetical truck won’t just heat up to 140 degrees like a strip of asphalt on Earth—it’ll heat up to more like two hundred and fifty degrees. Except space isn’t quite a perfect insulator after all. Objects in space cannot cool off by thermal conduction or convection, but they cool off by radiating infrared light. All objects do this, and they radiate more the hotter they get. That’s why our truck won’t heat up and melt. When it gets hot enough, it starts radiating enough infrared (like a space heater) to stop warming any further. At our distance from the sun, that temperature is about 250 degrees Fahrenheit. At the distance of Mercury, it’s about 800 degrees . Meanwhile, the shaded side of our truck is emitting infrared light too—just at a slower rate. Insulated by vacuum, it will cool down much more slowly than the sunlit side heats up, but since there is no energy coming in, it will keep on cooling down until it gets very cold indeed. Of course, in the real world, nothing is quite so tidy. Our Mac Truck will probably be tumbling so neither side will have enough time to fully heat up or cool down. This idea was used during the Apollo program, where the large, cylindrical Service Module was frequently set into a gentle rotation to keep the temperatures even. Objects also conduct heat internally so the shadowed side of an object sitting in the sunlight near Earth might cool down to only -250 degrees , where at the orbit of Pluto, it might be more like -360 degrees. All this is very important to spacecraft designers. From the sun out to about the orbit of Mars, spacecraft have little trouble staying warm. They mostly are wrapped in reflective materials for protection from the sun, and given radiators or other systems to help get rid of the heat generated by their systems. At about the orbit of Mars, however, staying warm starts becoming a problem, so much so that the first Mars rover, Sojourner, carried a plug of plutonium 238 inside the little thermos container that housed its computer just to keep the electronics from freezing. Space is cold in the sense that it’s big and empty and any object placed in space can radiate a limitless amount of energy in all directions, so if there is no sun nearby to warm it up, it will eventually lose almost all its heat and grow very cold indeed—so bring some coffee. originally appeared on Quora. the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. You can follow Quora on Twitter , Facebook , and Google+ . Outer Space : How do we manage to receive signals from space when we are rotating and orbiting and constantly moving away from the source? The Sun : If we pour water on the sun with a bucket as big as the sun, will the sun be extinguished? Solar Energy : What is the future of solar energy?    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Why is it so cold in outer space? originally appeared on Quora: the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world.

Answer by C. Stuart Hardwick, Award-Winning Scifi Author, on Quora:

The reason outer space is so cold is because cold is what you get when there is no source of heat nearby.

At our distance from the sun, if you put, say, a Mac Truck in space, the side facing the sun will quickly get hot enough to burn you. The reason is obvious: sunlight contains energy, and in near-Earth space, there is no atmosphere to filter that energy, so it’s even more intense than it is down here. Now, on Earth, if you put something out in the sun, it warms up. The air picks up some of that warmth and rises, and the resulting current wicks heat away. In space, none of that can happen. Space is like a giant thermos, a perfect insulator, so our hypothetical truck won’t just heat up to 140 degrees like a strip of asphalt on Earth—it’ll heat up to more like two hundred and fifty degrees.

Except space isn’t quite a perfect insulator after all. Objects in space cannot cool off by thermal conduction or convection, but they can cool off by radiating infrared light. All objects do this, and they radiate more the hotter they get. That’s why our truck won’t heat up and melt. When it gets hot enough, it starts radiating enough infrared (like a space heater) to stop warming any further. At our distance from the sun, that temperature is about 250 degrees Fahrenheit. At the distance of Mercury, it’s about 800 degrees Fahrenheit.

Meanwhile, the shaded side of our truck is emitting infrared light too—just at a slower rate. Insulated by vacuum, it will cool down much more slowly than the sunlit side heats up, but since there is no energy coming in, it will keep on cooling down until it gets very cold indeed.

Of course, in the real world, nothing is quite so tidy. Our Mac Truck will probably be tumbling so neither side will have enough time to fully heat up or cool down. This idea was used during the Apollo program, where the large, cylindrical Service Module was frequently set into a gentle rotation to keep the temperatures even.

Objects also conduct heat internally so the shadowed side of an object sitting in the sunlight near Earth might cool down to only -250 degrees Fahrenheit, where at the orbit of Pluto, it might be more like -360 degrees.

All this is very important to spacecraft designers. From the sun out to about the orbit of Mars, spacecraft have little trouble staying warm. They mostly are wrapped in reflective materials for protection from the sun, and given radiators or other systems to help get rid of the heat generated by their systems. At about the orbit of Mars, however, staying warm starts becoming a problem, so much so that the first Mars rover, Sojourner, carried a plug of plutonium 238 inside the little thermos container that housed its computer just to keep the electronics from freezing.

Space is cold in the sense that it’s big and empty and any object placed in space can radiate a limitless amount of energy in all directions, so if there is no sun nearby to warm it up, it will eventually lose almost all its heat and grow very cold indeed—so bring some coffee.

This question originally appeared on Quora. the place to gain and share knowledge, empowering people to learn from others and better understand the world. You can follow Quora on Twitter, Facebook, and Google+.

More questions: