Ad Uses Maya Angelou's 'Phenomenal Woman' To Show The Endless Strength Of Women
Ad Uses Maya Angelou's 'Phenomenal Woman' To Show The Endless Strength Of Women
A new video from women’s empowerment organization This Girl Can is highlighting just how phenomenal women are. The 90-second clip features women of all shapes, sizes and colors doing different activities, including running, boxing, playing roller derby, weightlifting, swimming, dancing and even giving birth. Throughout the video, a voiceover reads an adapted version of Maya Angelou’s poem “Phenomenal Woman.” “Many people wonder where my secret lies. I’m not cute, or built to suit a fashion model size,” the voiceover says while the video shows a woman applying lipstick and then cuts to a rugby player putting in her mouthguard. “When I start to tell them, they think I’m telling lies. But I say, ‘I’m a woman, phenomenally.’” This Girl Can is a British organization that celebrates “active women who are doing their thing no matter how well they do it, how they look or even how red their face gets.” The powerful clip was published to This Girl Can’s Facebook page on Friday, and already has over 4.5 million views. “Jiggling, sweating, lifting, taking a breather ― however you do it, we think it’s phenomenal,” the video’s description reads . As the voiceover says toward the end of the video: “Phenomenal woman, it ought to make you proud.” Hell yes, it does. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Body Image Moments 2016       Share this slide:       MORE:

A new video from women’s empowerment organization This Girl Can is highlighting just how phenomenal women are.

The 90-second clip features women of all shapes, sizes and colors doing different activities, including running, boxing, playing roller derby, weightlifting, swimming, dancing and even giving birth. Throughout the video, a voiceover reads an adapted version of Maya Angelou’s poem “Phenomenal Woman.”

“Many people wonder where my secret lies. I’m not cute, or built to suit a fashion model size,” the voiceover says while the video shows a woman applying lipstick and then cuts to a rugby player putting in her mouthguard. “When I start to tell them, they think I’m telling lies. But I say, ‘I’m a woman, phenomenally.’”

This Girl Can is a British organization that celebrates “active women who are doing their thing no matter how well they do it, how they look or even how red their face gets.” The powerful clip was published to This Girl Can’s Facebook page on Friday, and already has over 4.5 million views. “Jiggling, sweating, lifting, taking a breather ― however you do it, we think it’s phenomenal,” the video’s description reads.