At least 3 dead after small plane crashes into California homes
At least 3 dead after small plane crashes into California homes
Shares               At least three people were killed and two were hospitalized after a small plane crashed into two homes in Riverside, California, according to officials. The injured victims, both adults in their 30s and 40s, were transported to separate hospitals and are listed in critical condition, Riverside Fire Chief Michael Moore said in a press statement. The National Transportation Safety Board will continue its search and investigation later on Tuesday, More said. The were no residents killed in the accident. The Federal Aviation Administration said the Cessna 310 crashed under unknown circumstances about a half-mile northeast of Riverside Municipal Airport. The plane was headed to San Jose from Riverside, according to the FAA. The people on board the plane were coming from a cheer conference at Disneyland, Moore said. Shannon Flores, a teacher at a nearby school in Riverside, told KABC-TV she and her students saw the plane from their building. "It was just flying very, very low," she said. "We knew it shouldn't have been flying that low and that it was definitely going down."  Shares                  At least 3 dead after small plane crashes into California homes   ANALYSIS: President Trump brings new tone to old promises   Trump's new travel ban expected Wednesday   Ex-governor defends Obamacare in response to Trump's speech   EPA chief Pruitt's ex-office given more time on emails   Parts of Midwest hit by tornadoes, at least 2 dead   FBI investigating Kansas bar shooting as hate crime   Houston police search for suspect 'potentially' linked to officers' shooting   Family aboard plane that crashed into California home, killing 3   Man accused in fatal 2014 moviegoer shooting: 'It was his life or mine'   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Artist makes cookies inspired by Oscar red carpet fashions   Woman's 'arrest' leads to surprise proposal   Babies photographed cuddled up in molds of their moms' pregnant bellies   Dad accepts 'best husband' award in gym shorts before Oscars   1st look: New toys of 2017   Meet Darla, the therapy chicken helping to educate her community   Suspects charged with murder in airport nerve agent attack   Trump orders review of Obama rule protecting small streams   Trump sons open newest hotel in Vancouver   Colorectal cancer rates increasing sharply among younger adults   China's coal consumption falls for 3rd year in a row   Melania Trump sparkles in Michael Kors for joint address   Seven lines to remember from Trump's joint address   Beatty urges academy president to clarify Oscar fiasco   Jimmy Kimmel explains craziest Oscars ever   Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences apologizes for Oscars mix-up   2-year-old with heart defect invited to senior prom   Princess Kate visits children's hospital   Phelps asks Congress to ensure anti-doping system is fair   Barack and Michelle Obama have book deals   Viola Davis says she struggles with 'imposter syndrome'   Bright like a diamond: Harvard honors Rihanna's philanthropy   'Bachelor' contestant Corinne Olympios 'blindsided' by Nick Viall's rejection

At least three people were killed and two were hospitalized after a small plane crashed into two homes in Riverside, California, according to officials.

The injured victims, both adults in their 30s and 40s, were transported to separate hospitals and are listed in critical condition, Riverside Fire Chief Michael Moore said in a press statement.

The National Transportation Safety Board will continue its search and investigation later on Tuesday, More said. The were no residents killed in the accident.

The Federal Aviation Administration said the Cessna 310 crashed under unknown circumstances about a half-mile northeast of Riverside Municipal Airport. The plane was headed to San Jose from Riverside, according to the FAA.

The people on board the plane were coming from a cheer conference at Disneyland, Moore said.

Shannon Flores, a teacher at a nearby school in Riverside, told KABC-TV she and her students saw the plane from their building.

"It was just flying very, very low," she said. "We knew it shouldn't have been flying that low and that it was definitely going down."

ABC News’ Alex Stone and Marilyn Heck contributed to this report.