Theresa May's plan to trigger Brexit next month clears major hurdle in Lords
Theresa May's plan to trigger Brexit next month clears major hurdle in Lords
The Government has defeated the first challenge in the Lords to its plan to trigger Brexit negotiations next month. Peers voted against an amendment to the Brexit Bill demanding the UK retains its membership of the European single market. The 229 to 136 vote, a majority of 163, exposed deep divisions within Labour. In the debate, former Business Secretary Lord Mandelson warned it would be an "economic disaster" for Britain to leave the single market. However, opposition frontbencher Baroness Hayter of Kentish Town accused supporters of the amendment of offering "unrealistic hope" that the UK could stay within the EU's trading area. Warning against re-running the arguments of the referendum campaign, she said Britain would be recipients of rules set in Brussels if it opted for a Norwegian-style model. Lord Mandelson hit back saying the UK would be a "senior influential" member of the European Economic Area (EEA) with influence over rule-making. "I can't understand why my own frontbench can't see it," he said. The clash came after Supreme Court campaigner Gina Miller had urged the Lords to show "backbone" and push the Government into concessions over Brexit.   Gina Miller demands Lords show 'backbone' and change May's Brexit Bill She told those debating Ms May’s Article 50 Bill this week must take the lead, because the House of Commons had shown “cowardice” in failing to win any compromise. Some peers sought to change the Government's mind. Hain He said: "Both the Government and, may I say sadly, my party leadership in the Commons, have effectively put the migration issue ahead of jobs and prosperity, and I think that's fundamentally mistaken. "Of course human rights and of course migration issues have to be addressed. But to put that first, to put migration first... ahead of jobs and prosperity, which depend on the single market, is perverse in the extreme in my view." He warned leaving the single market could be "catastrophic". Brexit Concerns               Brexit Concerns    Brexit will put British patients at 'back of the queue' for new drugs   Brexit will put British patients at the “back of the queue” for vital new drugs, the Government has been warned – forcing them to wait up to two years longer

A medicines regulator has raised the alarm over a likely decision to pull out of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as well as the EU itself.
ealth Secretary Jeremy Hunt dropped the bombshell , when he said he expected the UK would quit the EMA – because it is subject to rulings by the European Court of Justice.   Getty Images     London to lose status as 'gateway to Europe' for banks   One of Germany’s top banking regulators has warned that London could lose its status as “gateway to Europe” for the banking sector after Britain quits the European trading bloc. 

Andreas Dombret, who is an executive board member for the Bundesbank—Germany’s central bank—told a private meeting of German businesses and banks earlier this week in Frankfurt that even if banking rules were “equivalent” between the UK and the rest of the EU, that was still “miles away from [Britain having] access to the single market”, the BBC reports.   Jason Hawkes     Exodus   The number of financial sector professionals in Britain and continental Europe looking for jobs in Ireland rocketed in the months after the UK voted to leave the European Union   Shutterstock     Brexit is making FTSE 100 executives richer   Pay packages of many FTSE 100 chief executive officers are partly tied to how well share prices are doing rather than the CEO’s performance -- and some stocks are soaring.
ritish equities got a boost since the June vote because the likes of Rio Tinto, Smiths Group and WPP generate most sales abroad and earn a fortune when they convert these revenues back into the weakened pound. Sterling’s fall also made UK stocks more affordable for overseas investors.   Rex     Theresa May: UK to leave single market   Theresa May has said the UK "cannot possibly" remain within the European single market, as staying in it would mean "not leaving the EU at all".   Getty        Lead campaigner Gina Miller and her team outside the High Court   Getty        Raymond McCord holds up his newly issued Irish passport alongside his British passport outside the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit   PA wire        SDLP leader Colum Eastwood leaving the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit   PA wire        Migrants with luggage walk past a graffiti on a wall as they leave the 'Jungle' migrant camp, as part of a major three-day operation planned to clear the camp  in Calais   Getty        Migrants leave messages on their tents in the Jungle migrant camp   Getty        The Adventist Development and Relief Agency (Adra) which distributes approximately 700 meals daily in the northern Paris camp states that it is noticing a spike in new migrant arrivals this week, potentially linked the the Calais 'jungle' camp closure - with around 1000 meals distributed today   EPA        Migrant workers pick apples at Stocks Farm in Suckley, Britain   Reuters        Many farmers across the country are voicing concerns that Brexit could be a dangerous step into the
unknown for the farming industry   Getty        Bank of England governor Mark Carney who said the long-term outlook for the UK economy is positive, but growth was slowing in the wake of the Brexit vote   PA        The Dow Jones industrial average closed down over 600 points on the news with markets around the globe pluninging   Getty        Immigration officers deal with each member of the public seeking entry into the United Kingdom but on average, 10 a day are refused entry at this London airport and between 2008 and 2009, 33,100 people were detained at the airport for mainly passport irregularities   Getty        A number of global investment giants have threatened to move their European operations out of London if Brexit proves to have a negative impact on their businesses   Getty        Following the possibility of a Brexit the UK would be released from its renewable energy targets under the EU Renewable Energy Directive and from EU state aid restrictions, potentially giving the government more freedom both in the design and phasing out of renewable energy support regimes   Getty        A woman looking at a chart showing the drop in the pound (Sterling) against the US Dollar in London  after Britain voted to leave the EU   Getty        Young protesters outside the Houses of Parliament in Westminster, to protest against the United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU following the referendum   Getty        Applications from Northern Ireland citizens for Irish Passports has soared to a record high after the UK Voted in favour of Leaving the EU   Getty        NFU Vice President Minette Batters with Secretary of State, Andrea Leadsome at the National Farmers Union (NFU) took machinery, produce, farmers and staff to Westminster to encourage Members of Parliament to back British farming, post Brexit   Getty        The latest reports released by the UK Cabinet Office warn that expats would lose a range of specific rights to live, to work and to access pensions, healthcare and public services. The same reports added that UK citizens abroad would not be able to assume that these rights will be guaranteed in the future   Getty        A British resident living in Spain asks questions during an informative Brexit talk by the "Brexpats in Spain" group, about Spanish legal issues to become Spanish citizens, at the town hall in Benalmadena, Spain   Reuters        The collapse of Great Britain appears to have been greatly exaggerated given the late summer crowds visiting city museums, hotels, and other important tourist attractions   Getty        The U.K. should maintain European Union regulations covering everything from working hours to chemicals until after the government sets out its plans for Brexit, said British manufacturers anxious to avoid a policy vacuum and safeguard access to their biggest export market   Getty  There were divisions on the Tory benches too, with former minister Baroness Altmann warning the Government was "gambling with millions of manufacturing jobs". She said: "By leaving the single market we are hampering our manufacturing industry and putting barriers in the way which will ensure the destruction of millions of jobs. "Unless we get some kind of access to the single market we are sacrificing integrated supply chains which so many smaller businesses depend on." Read more John Major accuses Theresa May's Government of misleading over Brexit EU nationals express panic after Home Office changes residency rules Super rich foreign buyers are bargain-hunting for London's homes May's post-Brexit plan for economy 'would not come close' to working UK 'more valuable for growth despite Brexit concerns' Brexit 'may reduce prospect of co-operation' in Northern Ireland But Tory former minister Lord Blencathra said the move to stay within the EEA flew in the face of what the people had voted for, adding: "It is staying in the EU by the backdoor." He said: "The Prime Minister hasn't opted for a hard Brexit or a soft Brexit. "She's merely attempting to carry out the wishes of the people who voted to leave the EU and that automatically means leaving the single market." Baroness Hayter said she believed Theresa May's approach to Brexit was "wrong", but passing the amendment would effectively mean "asking the Prime Minister to eat her own words". Staying in the single market meant accepting free movement, the baroness said. She added: "With regard to free movement, we cannot simply airbrush this from the referendum decision. "For if we turn round to those who voted out, and we say 'yes we are out, but actually we are still having everything exactly as it was, we are still having free movement unchanged', I think that might emit some surprise." In a tense exchange, Lord Mandelson intervened on the Labour minister and dismissed her concerns. He said: "We would not be mere recipients my lords, we would be large, senior, influential members of the EEA, negotiating our membership of the EEA in terms that would give us significant influence over policy-making and rule-making in the European Union. "Everyone accepts that and I cannot understand why my own frontbench cant see it." Responding for the Government, Brexit Minister Lord Bridges of Headley spoke out against the amendment. He said: "To remain a member of the single market and to remain a full member of the customs union would, to all intents and purposes, mean not leaving the EU at all." Addressing his fellow lords, he urged them to "stop fighting the battles of the campaign, but come together to help us to think of ways in which we can't continue to thrive, continue to trade and to overcome some of these challenges". The Government is expected to face further challenges in the days ahead, on key issues such as having a "meaningful" parliamentary vote on the Brexit deal and allowing EU nationals resident in the UK to remain. More about: Brexit Theresa May European Union Lord Mandelson Baroness Hayter Lord Bridges Baroness Altmann Gina Miller Comments

The Government has defeated the first challenge in the Lords to its plan to trigger Brexit negotiations next month.

Peers voted against an amendment to the Brexit Bill demanding the UK retains its membership of the European single market.

The 229 to 136 vote, a majority of 163, exposed deep divisions within Labour.

In the debate, former Business Secretary Lord Mandelson warned it would be an "economic disaster" for Britain to leave the single market.

However, opposition frontbencher Baroness Hayter of Kentish Town accused supporters of the amendment of offering "unrealistic hope" that the UK could stay within the EU's trading area.

Warning against re-running the arguments of the referendum campaign, she said Britain would be recipients of rules set in Brussels if it opted for a Norwegian-style model.

Sir John Major criticises Theresa May's Brexit strategy

Lord Mandelson hit back saying the UK would be a "senior influential" member of the European Economic Area (EEA) with influence over rule-making.

"I can't understand why my own frontbench can't see it," he said.

The clash came after Supreme Court campaigner Gina Miller had urged the Lords to show "backbone" and push the Government into concessions over Brexit.

She told The Independent those debating Ms May’s Article 50 Bill this week must take the lead, because the House of Commons had shown “cowardice” in failing to win any compromise.

Some peers sought to change the Government's mind.

Lord Hain warned of the economic dangers of leaving the trading bloc and criticised his own party leadership for prioritising immigration over jobs and prosperity.

He said: "Both the Government and, may I say sadly, my party leadership in the Commons, have effectively put the migration issue ahead of jobs and prosperity, and I think that's fundamentally mistaken.

"Of course human rights and of course migration issues have to be addressed. But to put that first, to put migration first... ahead of jobs and prosperity, which depend on the single market, is perverse in the extreme in my view."

He warned leaving the single market could be "catastrophic".

Brexit Concerns







26 show all Brexit Concerns

















































1/26 Brexit will put British patients at 'back of the queue' for new drugs Brexit will put British patients at the “back of the queue” for vital new drugs, the Government has been warned – forcing them to wait up to two years longer A medicines regulator has raised the alarm over a likely decision to pull out of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as well as the EU itself. ealth Secretary Jeremy Hunt dropped the bombshell , when he said he expected the UK would quit the EMA – because it is subject to rulings by the European Court of Justice. Getty Images

2/26 London to lose status as 'gateway to Europe' for banks One of Germany’s top banking regulators has warned that London could lose its status as “gateway to Europe” for the banking sector after Britain quits the European trading bloc. Andreas Dombret, who is an executive board member for the Bundesbank—Germany’s central bank—told a private meeting of German businesses and banks earlier this week in Frankfurt that even if banking rules were “equivalent” between the UK and the rest of the EU, that was still “miles away from [Britain having] access to the single market”, the BBC reports. Jason Hawkes

3/26 Exodus The number of financial sector professionals in Britain and continental Europe looking for jobs in Ireland rocketed in the months after the UK voted to leave the European Union Shutterstock

4/26 Brexit is making FTSE 100 executives richer Pay packages of many FTSE 100 chief executive officers are partly tied to how well share prices are doing rather than the CEO’s performance -- and some stocks are soaring. ritish equities got a boost since the June vote because the likes of Rio Tinto, Smiths Group and WPP generate most sales abroad and earn a fortune when they convert these revenues back into the weakened pound. Sterling’s fall also made UK stocks more affordable for overseas investors. Rex

5/26 Theresa May: UK to leave single market Theresa May has said the UK "cannot possibly" remain within the European single market, as staying in it would mean "not leaving the EU at all". Getty

6/26 Lead campaigner Gina Miller and her team outside the High Court Getty

7/26 Raymond McCord holds up his newly issued Irish passport alongside his British passport outside the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit PA wire

8/26 SDLP leader Colum Eastwood leaving the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit PA wire

9/26 Migrants with luggage walk past a graffiti on a wall as they leave the 'Jungle' migrant camp, as part of a major three-day operation planned to clear the camp in Calais Getty

10/26 Migrants leave messages on their tents in the Jungle migrant camp Getty

11/26 The Adventist Development and Relief Agency (Adra) which distributes approximately 700 meals daily in the northern Paris camp states that it is noticing a spike in new migrant arrivals this week, potentially linked the the Calais 'jungle' camp closure - with around 1000 meals distributed today EPA

12/26 Migrant workers pick apples at Stocks Farm in Suckley, Britain Reuters

13/26 Many farmers across the country are voicing concerns that Brexit could be a dangerous step into the unknown for the farming industry Getty

14/26 Bank of England governor Mark Carney who said the long-term outlook for the UK economy is positive, but growth was slowing in the wake of the Brexit vote PA

15/26 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down over 600 points on the news with markets around the globe pluninging Getty

16/26 Immigration officers deal with each member of the public seeking entry into the United Kingdom but on average, 10 a day are refused entry at this London airport and between 2008 and 2009, 33,100 people were detained at the airport for mainly passport irregularities Getty

17/26 A number of global investment giants have threatened to move their European operations out of London if Brexit proves to have a negative impact on their businesses Getty

18/26 Following the possibility of a Brexit the UK would be released from its renewable energy targets under the EU Renewable Energy Directive and from EU state aid restrictions, potentially giving the government more freedom both in the design and phasing out of renewable energy support regimes Getty

19/26 A woman looking at a chart showing the drop in the pound (Sterling) against the US Dollar in London after Britain voted to leave the EU Getty

20/26 Young protesters outside the Houses of Parliament in Westminster, to protest against the United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU following the referendum Getty

21/26 Applications from Northern Ireland citizens for Irish Passports has soared to a record high after the UK Voted in favour of Leaving the EU Getty

22/26 NFU Vice President Minette Batters with Secretary of State, Andrea Leadsome at the National Farmers Union (NFU) took machinery, produce, farmers and staff to Westminster to encourage Members of Parliament to back British farming, post Brexit Getty

23/26 The latest reports released by the UK Cabinet Office warn that expats would lose a range of specific rights to live, to work and to access pensions, healthcare and public services. The same reports added that UK citizens abroad would not be able to assume that these rights will be guaranteed in the future Getty

24/26 A British resident living in Spain asks questions during an informative Brexit talk by the "Brexpats in Spain" group, about Spanish legal issues to become Spanish citizens, at the town hall in Benalmadena, Spain Reuters

25/26 The collapse of Great Britain appears to have been greatly exaggerated given the late summer crowds visiting city museums, hotels, and other important tourist attractions Getty

26/26 The U.K. should maintain European Union regulations covering everything from working hours to chemicals until after the government sets out its plans for Brexit, said British manufacturers anxious to avoid a policy vacuum and safeguard access to their biggest export market Getty

There were divisions on the Tory benches too, with former minister Baroness Altmann warning the Government was "gambling with millions of manufacturing jobs".

She said: "By leaving the single market we are hampering our manufacturing industry and putting barriers in the way which will ensure the destruction of millions of jobs.

"Unless we get some kind of access to the single market we are sacrificing integrated supply chains which so many smaller businesses depend on."

But Tory former minister Lord Blencathra said the move to stay within the EEA flew in the face of what the people had voted for, adding: "It is staying in the EU by the backdoor."

He said: "The Prime Minister hasn't opted for a hard Brexit or a soft Brexit.

"She's merely attempting to carry out the wishes of the people who voted to leave the EU and that automatically means leaving the single market."

Baroness Hayter said she believed Theresa May's approach to Brexit was "wrong", but passing the amendment would effectively mean "asking the Prime Minister to eat her own words".

Staying in the single market meant accepting free movement, the baroness said. She added: "With regard to free movement, we cannot simply airbrush this from the referendum decision.

"For if we turn round to those who voted out, and we say 'yes we are out, but actually we are still having everything exactly as it was, we are still having free movement unchanged', I think that might emit some surprise."

In a tense exchange, Lord Mandelson intervened on the Labour minister and dismissed her concerns.

He said: "We would not be mere recipients my lords, we would be large, senior, influential members of the EEA, negotiating our membership of the EEA in terms that would give us significant influence over policy-making and rule-making in the European Union.

"Everyone accepts that and I cannot understand why my own frontbench cant see it."

Responding for the Government, Brexit Minister Lord Bridges of Headley spoke out against the amendment.

He said: "To remain a member of the single market and to remain a full member of the customs union would, to all intents and purposes, mean not leaving the EU at all."

Addressing his fellow lords, he urged them to "stop fighting the battles of the campaign, but come together to help us to think of ways in which we can't continue to thrive, continue to trade and to overcome some of these challenges".

The Government is expected to face further challenges in the days ahead, on key issues such as having a "meaningful" parliamentary vote on the Brexit deal and allowing EU nationals resident in the UK to remain.

Additional reporting by Press Association