Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences apologizes for Oscars mix-up
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences apologizes for Oscars mix-up
Shares               Everybody's talking about Sunday's Oscars gaffe during which Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway incorrectly announced "La La Land" as the best picture winner instead of Moonlight. Monday, it was the The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' turn to weigh in. The Academy released a statement that read, "We deeply regret the mistakes that were made during the presentation of the Best Picture category during last night’s Oscar ceremony. We apologize to the entire cast and crew of 'La La Land' and 'Moonlight' whose experience was profoundly altered by this error. We salute the tremendous grace they displayed under the circumstances. To all involved -- including our presenters Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway, the filmmakers, and our fans watching worldwide -- we apologize." The statement continues: "For the last 83 years, the Academy has entrusted [PriceWaterhouseCoopers] to handle the critical tabulation process, including the accurate delivery of results. PwC has taken full responsibility for the breaches of established protocols that took place during the ceremony. "We have spent last night and today investigating the circumstances, and will determine what actions are appropriate going forward. We are unwaveringly committed to upholding the integrity of the Oscars and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences." Shortly after the ceremony, PriceWaterhouseCoopers issued their own apology, saying in a statement that the error occurred because the presenters were given the wrong envelope. Academy President Cheryl Boone Isaacs was understandably upset by the whole affair. A writer for the New Yorker was backstage at the Oscars and happened upon Isaacs just after it happened. Her reaction?
"Horror," she told him. "I just thought, Oh, my God, how does this happen? How. Does. This. Happen. And it was such a wonderful show.” Shares                  Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences apologizes for Oscars mix-up   Sarah Silverman explains why she chose career over kids   Princess Kate visits children's hospital   Jimmy Kimmel explains craziest Oscars ever   Why 'Girls' star Allison Williams says she never has nude scenes   Octavia Spencer describes her 'full circle' Oscar moment   Tim Tebow says New York Mets spring training is 'a dream come true'   'The Bachelor' recap: Bye-bye Corinne, hello fantasy suites   'Bachelor' contestant Corinne Olympios 'blindsided' by Nick Viall's rejection   Viola Davis says she struggles with 'imposter syndrome'   ANALYSIS: President Trump brings new tone to old promises   Trump's new travel ban expected Wednesday   Ex-governor defends Obamacare in response to Trump's speech   EPA chief Pruitt's ex-office given more time on emails   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Artist makes cookies inspired by Oscar red carpet fashions   Woman's 'arrest' leads to surprise proposal   Babies photographed cuddled up in molds of their moms' pregnant bellies   Dad accepts 'best husband' award in gym shorts before Oscars   1st look: New toys of 2017   Meet Darla, the therapy chicken helping to educate her community

Everybody's talking about Sunday's Oscars gaffe during which Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway incorrectly announced "La La Land" as the best picture winner instead of Moonlight. Monday, it was the The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' turn to weigh in.

The Academy released a statement that read, "We deeply regret the mistakes that were made during the presentation of the Best Picture category during last night’s Oscar ceremony. We apologize to the entire cast and crew of 'La La Land' and 'Moonlight' whose experience was profoundly altered by this error. We salute the tremendous grace they displayed under the circumstances. To all involved -- including our presenters Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway, the filmmakers, and our fans watching worldwide -- we apologize."

The statement continues: "For the last 83 years, the Academy has entrusted [PriceWaterhouseCoopers] to handle the critical tabulation process, including the accurate delivery of results. PwC has taken full responsibility for the breaches of established protocols that took place during the ceremony.

"We have spent last night and today investigating the circumstances, and will determine what actions are appropriate going forward. We are unwaveringly committed to upholding the integrity of the Oscars and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences."

Shortly after the ceremony, PriceWaterhouseCoopers issued their own apology, saying in a statement that the error occurred because the presenters were given the wrong envelope.

Academy President Cheryl Boone Isaacs was understandably upset by the whole affair. A writer for the New Yorker was backstage at the Oscars and happened upon Isaacs just after it happened. Her reaction? "Horror," she told him. "I just thought, Oh, my God, how does this happen? How. Does. This. Happen. And it was such a wonderful show.”