'Moana' Star Auli'i Cravalho Lands NBC Pilot After Oscars Performance
'Moana' Star Auli'i Cravalho Lands NBC Pilot After Oscars Performance
'Moana' Star Auli'i Cravalho Lands NBC Pilot After Oscars Performance  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Auli'i Cravalho, the 16-year-old star is jumping to a lead role in an NBC pilot,Â , in the wake of herÂ thrilling performance of "How Far I'll Go"Â at Sunday night's (Feb. 26) Oscars. According to , the seriesÂ from Â producer/showrunner Jason Katims and producer Jeffrey Seller, the show was written by Katims andÂ inspired by the story of ground-breaking high school drama teacher Lou Volpe. Volpe's story was told in the book of hte same name, written by one of his students, Michael Sokolove. The hour-long drama is described as a look at "an extraordinary working-class high school drama department and the incredible students who come alive under a passionate teacher and family man whose dedication to the program galvanizes the entire town."  Cravalho -- who made her screen debutÂ as the voiceÂ of the title character in which featured the Oscar-nominated song written by Hamilton creator Lin-Manuel Miranda -- Â wil play one of the students, Lilette. Relive her Oscars moment below. Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Auli'i Cravalho, the 16-year-old Moana star is jumping to a lead role in an NBC pilot,Â Drama High, in the wake of herÂ thrilling performance of "How Far I'll Go"Â at Sunday night's (Feb. 26) Oscars. According to Deadline, the seriesÂ from Friday Night LightsÂ producer/showrunner Jason Katims and Hamilton producer Jeffrey Seller, the show was written by Katims andÂ inspired by the story of ground-breaking high school drama teacher Lou Volpe.

Volpe's story was told in the book of hte same name, written by one of his students, Michael Sokolove. The hour-long drama is described as a look at "an extraordinary working-class high school drama department and the incredible students who come alive under a passionate teacher and family man whose dedication to the program galvanizes the entire town."

Cravalho -- who made her screen debutÂ as the voiceÂ of the title character in Moana, which featured the Oscar-nominated song written by Hamilton creator Lin-Manuel Miranda -- Â wil play one of the students, Lilette. Relive her Oscars moment below.

Â