This Mother's Struggle To Bring Back Her Kidnapped 2 YO Daughter To Mumbai Is Coming To An End
This Mother's Struggle To Bring Back Her Kidnapped 2 YO Daughter To Mumbai Is Coming To An End
This Mother's Struggle To Bring Back Her Kidnapped 2 YO Daughter To Mumbai Is Coming To An End Remember Nadia from a Humans Of Amsterdam post, where she made some gut-wrenching revelations about her personal life. The gorgeous woman is also a distraught mother, who lost her 2-year-old to her Indian husband on 29th September 2016. Her daughter Insiya was violently kidnapped from Amsterdam (European Union) and smuggled to Mumbai, India. "On the day of the kidnap three men, professional kidnappers barged into my home in my absence and brutally took Insiya while my mother was babysitting." The mother has been fighting since for the return of her daughter and her multiple ways of bringing her daughter back haven't worked so far. She's reached out to the Dutch Ministry as well as the Indian Ministry led by none other than Sushma Swaraj for the same. "Again and again, I reached out to Sushma Swaraj, India’s minister of foreign affairs but until this day I have not gotten any response from her or her Government.'' she wrote . However, on 12 of January, the first hearing began and now she seers herself closer to the purpose. ''On the 12th of January 2017, there was the first court hearing. It was also the first time I saw one of the kidnappers in real life. A few days before the kidnap he had been flown in from the US by my ex-husband." "It was a surreal experience to sit only a few meters away from a man who ruthlessly had participated in the kidnap of my own daughter. During the trial, I found out that the kidnap took 10 months of preparation and that my ex-husband had hired a team of 7 men to carry out ''Operation Barney''. They even gave it a name..'' she said.  Along with HOA, Nadia is also running a petition on Change.org, where she is struggling to bring back her 2-year-old girl. In order for Nadia to get her daughter back, The Indian Ministry of External Affairs has to collaborate with the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the campaign requests the two ministries to work together. To help her, you can sign the petition here.

Remember Nadia from a Humans Of Amsterdam post, where she made some gut-wrenching revelations about her personal life.

Facebook/HOA

The gorgeous woman is also a distraught mother, who lost her 2-year-old to her Indian husband on 29th September 2016.

Her daughter Insiya was violently kidnapped from Amsterdam (European Union) and smuggled to Mumbai, India.

"On the day of the kidnap three men, professional kidnappers barged into my home in my absence and brutally took Insiya while my mother was babysitting."

Facebook/HOA

The mother has been fighting since for the return of her daughter and her multiple ways of bringing her daughter back haven't worked so far. She's reached out to the Dutch Ministry as well as the Indian Ministry led by none other than Sushma Swaraj for the same.

"Again and again, I reached out to Sushma Swaraj, India’s minister of foreign affairs but until this day I have not gotten any response from her or her Government.'' she wrote.

However, on 12 of January, the first hearing began and now she seers herself closer to the purpose.

''On the 12th of January 2017, there was the first court hearing. It was also the first time I saw one of the kidnappers in real life. A few days before the kidnap he had been flown in from the US by my ex-husband."

"It was a surreal experience to sit only a few meters away from a man who ruthlessly had participated in the kidnap of my own daughter. During the trial, I found out that the kidnap took 10 months of preparation and that my ex-husband had hired a team of 7 men to carry out ''Operation Barney''. They even gave it a name..'' she said.

Read her full story here:

Along with HOA, Nadia is also running a petition on Change.org, where she is struggling to bring back her 2-year-old girl. In order for Nadia to get her daughter back, The Indian Ministry of External Affairs has to collaborate with the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the campaign requests the two ministries to work together.

To help her, you can sign the petition here.

Don't Miss 1.3 K SHARES 187 SHARES 23.8 K SHARES 34.4 K SHARES 56.6 K SHARES