Mariah Carey Shuts Down Custody Battle Rumors & Defends Nick Cannon: 'We Will Always Remain a Strong Family'
Mariah Carey Shuts Down Custody Battle Rumors & Defends Nick Cannon: 'We Will Always Remain a Strong Family'
Mariah Carey Shuts Down Custody Battle Rumors & Defends Nick Cannon: 'We Will Always Remain a Strong Family'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Mariah Carey Â took toÂ InstagramÂ on Sunday (Feb. 26)Â to squash accusations made by the regarding a possible custody battle against her ex-husband, Nick Cannon .Â "There's no validity or truth to the false accusations looming in the press regarding our family. Nick is the father of my children. We will always stand up for each other, have each other's backs and we will always remain a strong family," a message she shared onÂ Instagram Â read. Cannon also reposted the pictureÂ with the caption reading: "Salute to the Queen!----Â #FamilyFirst." Last week, Cannon blasted The because they were "preparing an article reporting Nick Cannon has suffered a nervous breakdown and his erratic behavior has given ex-wifeÂ Mariah CareyÂ little choice but to petition for custody of their children."  "MORE LIES!!!," wrote Cannon on Instagram regarding the potential story. "So theÂ @enquirerÂ wants to play around with my children. Only Evil operates in this manner. What is the purpose? Except to exemplify pure immoral wickedness. If you report these lies expect a slander and defamation lawsuit. Look everyone, see how the media is trying to break a King?" The alleged story wasÂ planning toÂ citeÂ Cannon's reportedlyÂ strained relationships with NBC executives while on the set of Earlier this month, Cannon revealed hisÂ departure from the show Â on Facebook, saying that it stemsÂ from a racial joke he made during a stand-up special.Â In addition to leaving , Cannon also ousted his longtime advisers , including his ICM Partners, for CAA.Â  Check out Carey's post below.Â @nickcannon A post shared by Mariah Carey (@mariahcarey) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Mariah CareyÂ took toÂ InstagramÂ on Sunday (Feb. 26)Â to squash accusations made by the National Enquirer regarding a possible custody battle against her ex-husband, Nick Cannon.Â

"There's no validity or truth to the false accusations looming in the press regarding our family. Nick is the father of my children. We will always stand up for each other, have each other's backs and we will always remain a strong family," a message she shared onÂ InstagramÂ read. Cannon also reposted the pictureÂ with the caption reading: "Salute to the Queen!----Â #FamilyFirst."

Last week, Cannon blasted The National Enquirer because they were "preparing an article reporting Nick Cannon has suffered a nervous breakdown and his erratic behavior has given ex-wifeÂ Mariah CareyÂ little choice but to petition for custody of their children."

"MORE LIES!!!," wrote Cannon on Instagram regarding the potential story. "So theÂ @enquirerÂ wants to play around with my children. Only Evil operates in this manner. What is the purpose? Except to exemplify pure immoral wickedness. If you report these lies expect a slander and defamation lawsuit. Look everyone, see how the media is trying to break a King?"



The alleged story wasÂ planning toÂ citeÂ Cannon's reportedlyÂ strained relationships with NBC executives while on the set of America's Got Talent. Earlier this month, Cannon revealed hisÂ departure from the showÂ on Facebook, saying that it stemsÂ from a racial joke he made during a Showtime stand-up special.Â

In addition to leaving America's Got Talent, Cannon also ousted his longtime advisers, including his ICM Partners, for CAA.Â

Check out Carey's post below.Â