Two women to be charged in Kim Jon-nam murder face hanging
Two women to be charged with Kim murder face being hanged


Two women suspected of killing Kim Jong-un's brother will be charged with murder and face death by hanging, according to Malaysian prosecutors.

Indonesian Siti Aisyah, 25, and Vietnamese Doan Thi Huong, 28, are believed to have assassinated Kim Jong-nam with a lethal nerve agent at Kuala Lumpur's main airport on February 13.

Both women have insisted they thought they were taking part in a prank TV show, but if found guilty, they will be executed.

Doan Thi Huong, a Vietnamese suspect in the killing of Kim Jong-Nam in Kuala Lumpur is to be charged with his murder

Siti Aisyah, an Indonesian suspect in the killing of Kim Jong-Nam says she was paid just $90 for her role in the murder

Doan Thi Huong, who is accused of murdering him, was captured walking through the airport on CCTV

Huong previously worked as an escort, taking wealthy men around town. She has claimed she thought she was taking park in a gameshow

Malaysian police said the two women allegedly involved in the assassination - Siti Aisyah (left) and Huong (right) - knew the poisoning wasn't a 'TV prank'

A video was posted on YouTube appearing to show the women approaching Kim Jong Nam and spraying the substance in his face

Kim Jong-nam died on February 13 and now police say a nerve agent was found on his face

Malaysia's attorney general Mohamed Apandi Ali said Tuesday: 'They will be charged in court under Section 302 (murder) of the penal code.'

Aisyah reportedly told a senior diplomat Saturday she had been paid just 400 ringgit ($90) for her role, adding she believed she was handling a liquid like "baby oil".

Her co-accused Huong told Hanoi officials she had been tricked into killing Kim and thought she was taking part in a prank for a comedy video.

More suspects have been identified by Malaysian police, according to JoongAng Ilbo, but Russia have been accused of intervening to block them being sent for questioning.

The newspaper said six of the eight suspects were from North Korea's Ministry of State Security or the country's Foreign Affairs Ministry

Ri Ji-hyon, 33, and Hong Song-hac, 34, from the Foreign Affairs Ministry have been named as well as the State Security Ministry's O Jong-gil, 55, Ri Jae-nam, 57, and Hyon Kwang-song, 44.

It is thought they flew from Kuala Lumpur airport on the day of the assassination, passing through Vladivostok on their way back to Pyongyang.

South Korea's request to detain four of the North Korean suspects was rejected by Russian officials on the grounds of lack of evidence, it has been claimed.

The chief of South Korea’s National Intelligence Service said the death of Kim Jong-nam was an act of 'state-orchestrated terrorism' by North Korea’s ministries of foreign affairs and state security, according to JoongAng Ilbo.

Shocking pictures show Kim Jong-nam slumped in a chair having been poisoned

A third suspect, 46-year-old North Korean man Ri Jong-Chol, was also arrested following the brazen February 13 killing.

Apandi did not mention if he would be charged.

The suspects will appear in court on Wednesday - two weeks after the half brother of the North Korean leader died.

In leaked CCTV footage, two women are seen shoving something into Kim's face at the airport's Terminal 2.

The 45-year-old suffered a seizure and died before he reached hospital.

North Korea has sent a high-level delegation to Malaysia to seek the return of the body of their leader's slain half-brother.

The delegation includes Ri Tong-il, former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations.

He told reporters Tuesday outside the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur the diplomats were in Malaysia to seek the retrieval of the body and the release of a citizen arrested in connection with the case.

Although Malaysia have confirmed the identity of the deceased, North Korea, has identified the victim only as a North Korean national with a diplomatic passport.

Ri says the delegation also seeks the 'development of friendly relationships' between North Korea and Malaysia.