North Korean delegation arrives in Malaysia as murder charges expected in Kim Jong Nam assassination
Murder charges expected in Kim Jong Nam assassination
Shares               A high-level delegation of North Korean officials arrived in Malaysia’s capital today to retrieve the body of the North Korean leader’s assassinated half-brother, as a Malaysian official said two women were set to be charged with murder for the killing using a potent nerve agent. A former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, who was part of the delegation, told reporters outside the secretive state’s embassy in Kuala Lumpur that the diplomats wanted to obtain the body and seek the release of a North Korean who Malaysian authorities arrested in connected to the case. The diplomat, Ri Tong Il, also said he hoped to encourage “the development of friendly relations” between North Korea and Malaysia, which has threatened repercussions following the assassination. The South Korean government has accused North Korea of being behind the Feb. 13 murder of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un ’s half-brother, Kim Jong Nam. Malaysian authorities say the deadly VX nerve agent was placed on Kim’s face by two women at Kuala Lumpur’s international airport and that Kim died within 20 minutes.       The two women, identified as Indonesian Siti Aisyah and Vietnamese Doan Thi Huong, are set to be charged with murder on Wednesday and could face a mandatory death sentence if convicted, Malaysia’s attorney general told The Associated Press today. Malaysian authorities say North Koreans gave the nerve agent to the women. The women have reportedly said they believed they were part of a prank TV show. South Korea’s foreign minister today called the killing a “wake-up call.” "Just a few grams of VX is sufficient for mass killing,” Yun Byung-se told a United Nations conference in Geneva, Switzerland. “To our disbelief, North Korea is reported to have not just grams but thousands of tonnes of chemical weapons, including VX, all over the country." “In this sense,” he added, “the recent assassination is a wake-up call to all of us to North Korea's chemical weapons capability, and its intent to actually use them." Yun suggested North Korea should lose its U.N. membership.  Shares                  Murder charges expected in Kim Jong Nam assassination  The strange life, and sudden death, of a North Korean exile  Seoul says North Korea executes 5 senior security officials   ANALYSIS: President Trump brings new tone to old promises   Trump's new travel ban expected Wednesday   Ex-governor defends Obamacare in response to Trump's speech   EPA chief Pruitt's ex-office given more time on emails   Parts of Midwest hit by tornadoes, at least 2 dead   FBI investigating Kansas bar shooting as hate crime   Houston police search for suspect 'potentially' linked to officers' shooting   Family aboard plane that crashed into California home, killing 3   Man accused in fatal 2014 moviegoer shooting: 'It was his life or mine'   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Artist makes cookies inspired by Oscar red carpet fashions   Woman's 'arrest' leads to surprise proposal   Babies photographed cuddled up in molds of their moms' pregnant bellies   Dad accepts 'best husband' award in gym shorts before Oscars   1st look: New toys of 2017   Meet Darla, the therapy chicken helping to educate her community   Suspects charged with murder in airport nerve agent attack   Trump orders review of Obama rule protecting small streams   Trump sons open newest hotel in Vancouver   Colorectal cancer rates increasing sharply among younger adults   China's coal consumption falls for 3rd year in a row   Melania Trump sparkles in Michael Kors for joint address   Seven lines to remember from Trump's joint address   Beatty urges academy president to clarify Oscar fiasco   Jimmy Kimmel explains craziest Oscars ever   Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences apologizes for Oscars mix-up   2-year-old with heart defect invited to senior prom   Princess Kate visits children's hospital   Phelps asks Congress to ensure anti-doping system is fair   Barack and Michelle Obama have book deals   Viola Davis says she struggles with 'imposter syndrome'   Bright like a diamond: Harvard honors Rihanna's philanthropy   'Bachelor' contestant Corinne Olympios 'blindsided' by Nick Viall's rejection

A high-level delegation of North Korean officials arrived in Malaysia’s capital today to retrieve the body of the North Korean leader’s assassinated half-brother, as a Malaysian official said two women were set to be charged with murder for the killing using a potent nerve agent.

A former North Korean deputy ambassador to the United Nations, who was part of the delegation, told reporters outside the secretive state’s embassy in Kuala Lumpur that the diplomats wanted to obtain the body and seek the release of a North Korean who Malaysian authorities arrested in connected to the case.

The diplomat, Ri Tong Il, also said he hoped to encourage “the development of friendly relations” between North Korea and Malaysia, which has threatened repercussions following the assassination.

The South Korean government has accused North Korea of being behind the Feb. 13 murder of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s half-brother, Kim Jong Nam. Malaysian authorities say the deadly VX nerve agent was placed on Kim’s face by two women at Kuala Lumpur’s international airport and that Kim died within 20 minutes.

The two women, identified as Indonesian Siti Aisyah and Vietnamese Doan Thi Huong, are set to be charged with murder on Wednesday and could face a mandatory death sentence if convicted, Malaysia’s attorney general told The Associated Press today.

Malaysian authorities say North Koreans gave the nerve agent to the women. The women have reportedly said they believed they were part of a prank TV show.

South Korea’s foreign minister today called the killing a “wake-up call.”

"Just a few grams of VX is sufficient for mass killing,” Yun Byung-se told a United Nations conference in Geneva, Switzerland. “To our disbelief, North Korea is reported to have not just grams but thousands of tonnes of chemical weapons, including VX, all over the country."

“In this sense,” he added, “the recent assassination is a wake-up call to all of us to North Korea's chemical weapons capability, and its intent to actually use them."

Yun suggested North Korea should lose its U.N. membership.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.