LINEUP: Watch Reaction to Trump's Address to Congress on Fox News

LINEUP: Watch Reaction to Trump's Address to Congress on Fox News TONIGHT: @POTUS addresses a Joint Session of Congress. Complete coverage w/ @BretBaier & @MarthaMacCallum kicks off at 9p ET on Fox News! pic.twitter.com/UeBDY21qI6 — Fox News (@FoxNews) February 28, 2017 Fox News Channel is the place to be TONIGHT for President Donald Trump's address to a joint session of Congress. The president said in an exclusive "Fox & Friends" interview this morning that the speech will focus on the central planks of his campaign – the military, the border, jobs and health care. Join Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum, , for full coverage of Trump's address, which is scheduled to begin at 9:00pm ET. Here's the full schedule on Fox News Channel: Martha MacCallum talks to Kellyanne Conway, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt on . Don't miss look-ahead to the big speech, with analysis from , , and . Bret and Martha host special Fox News coverage, with reaction and analysis from and . - Join Sean on a special for powerful reaction and fallout from the historic night, with , , , , and . You can also watch the address streaming live at and on Fox News' page.

TONIGHT: @POTUS addresses a Joint Session of Congress. Complete coverage w/ @BretBaier & @MarthaMacCallum kicks off at 9p ET on Fox News! pic.twitter.com/UeBDY21qI6 — Fox News (@FoxNews) February 28, 2017

Fox News Channel is the place to be TONIGHT for President Donald Trump's address to a joint session of Congress.

The president said in an exclusive "Fox & Friends" interview this morning that the speech will focus on the central planks of his campaign – the military, the border, jobs and health care.

Join Bret Baier and Martha MacCallum, beginning at 8:50pm ET, for full coverage of Trump's address, which is scheduled to begin at 9:00pm ET.

Here's the full schedule on Fox News Channel:

7:00pm ET - Martha MacCallum talks to Kellyanne Conway, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt on The First 100 Days.

8:00pm ET - Don't miss Bill O'Reilly's look-ahead to the big speech, with analysis from Lisa Boothe, Juan Williams, Greg Gutfeld and Bernard McGuirk.

8:50pm ET - Bret and Martha host special Fox News coverage, with reaction and analysis from Tucker Carlson, Juan Williams, Dana Perino, Brit Hume and Chris Wallace.

11:00pm ET - Join Sean on a special LIVE Hannity for powerful reaction and fallout from the historic night, with Newt Gingrich, Elaine Chao, Rep. Louie Gohmert, Rep. Jim Jordan, Rep. Mark Meadows and Rep. David Brat.

You can also watch the address streaming live at FoxNews.com and on Fox News' Facebook page.

'You Don't Know!': Tucker and Bill Nye Clash on Climate Change

'It's Politics': Trump Says Obama Is Behind Protests and 'Possibly' the Leaks

Gowdy: 'Too Early' to Call for Special Prosecutor on Trump's Alleged Ties to Russia