SpaceX Plan For Moon Flyby Faces Economic And Technical Challenges
SpaceX Plan For Moon Flyby Faces Economic And Technical Challenges
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alex Knapp       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launching. (Matt Hartman via AP) "Two private citizens" have paid a "significant deposit" to SpaceX for a trip around the Moon in late 2018, the company announced Monday . The announcement, though exciting, also raises a few questions about the company's focus. SpaceX has announced some ambitious programs, especially involving Mars, but the company has also faced setbacks from two launch failures in the past two years, which have forced delays in delivering their customers' satellites into space. "I don’t know how much this helps them from an immediate operational perspective," space industry analyst Bill Ostrove told . "SpaceX has some really important short-term goals this year, like increasing launch tempo, human rating both the Falcon 9 and Dragon and getting the Falcon Heavy operational. This announcement does not help them achieve those goals, which are important for the company to continue to serve its customers and generate revenue for owners." On the flip side, Ostrove notes, the planed mission does help the company build excitement and enthusiasm among the public, and also helps serve the company's long-term goals by providing opportunities to test and develop technologies that could be used on eventual Mars missions. There are a few other hurdles for SpaceX to overcome if it wants to launch this mission next year. The two passengers would be sent via a crewed Dragon spacecraft, which the company is currently developing for NASA as part of the Commercial Crew program. However, the company has yet to launch a crewed mission. The rocket sending the passengers on their journey will be the Falcon Heavy -- which will have its first test flight only later this summer after years of delays. Additionally, the company will have to obtain regulatory permission for a flight to the Moon -- something that only one private company , Moon Express, has done to date. As a result, it's not clear whether SpaceX's current customers will have the patience to stick with the company as it focuses on such publicity-building, long-term goals. "Delays have certainly built up at SpaceX over the years," Ostrove notes. On the other hand, customers may well be happy with that ambition -- after all, the company has successfully been able to land the first stage of their Falcon 9 rocket on multiple occasions. That success means that SpaceX will soon be able to reuse those first stages -- at a significant reduction in price for customers. "The real test will come over the next year or two," says Ostrove. "The rate that new contracts with SpaceX are signed, compared to the past few years, will demonstrate how satellite operators feel about this move."    Trending on {{channel_name}}

"Two private citizens" have paid a "significant deposit" to SpaceX for a trip around the Moon in late 2018, the company announced Monday. The customers' identities, amount of the deposit and the total amount SpaceX is being paid for the journey are so far undisclosed. If successful, SpaceX would be the first private company to send a crewed spacecraft on such a journey.

The announcement, though exciting, also raises a few questions about the company's focus. SpaceX has announced some ambitious programs, especially involving Mars, but the company has also faced setbacks from two launch failures in the past two years, which have forced delays in delivering their customers' satellites into space.

"I don’t know how much this helps them from an immediate operational perspective," space industry analyst Bill Ostrove told Forbes. "SpaceX has some really important short-term goals this year, like increasing launch tempo, human rating both the Falcon 9 and Dragon and getting the Falcon Heavy operational. This announcement does not help them achieve those goals, which are important for the company to continue to serve its customers and generate revenue for owners."

On the flip side, Ostrove notes, the planed mission does help the company build excitement and enthusiasm among the public, and also helps serve the company's long-term goals by providing opportunities to test and develop technologies that could be used on eventual Mars missions.

There are a few other hurdles for SpaceX to overcome if it wants to launch this mission next year. The two passengers would be sent via a crewed Dragon spacecraft, which the company is currently developing for NASA as part of the Commercial Crew program. However, the company has yet to launch a crewed mission. The rocket sending the passengers on their journey will be the Falcon Heavy -- which will have its first test flight only later this summer after years of delays. Additionally, the company will have to obtain regulatory permission for a flight to the Moon -- something that only one private company, Moon Express, has done to date.

As a result, it's not clear whether SpaceX's current customers will have the patience to stick with the company as it focuses on such publicity-building, long-term goals. "Delays have certainly built up at SpaceX over the years," Ostrove notes.

On the other hand, customers may well be happy with that ambition -- after all, the company has successfully been able to land the first stage of their Falcon 9 rocket on multiple occasions. That success means that SpaceX will soon be able to reuse those first stages -- at a significant reduction in price for customers.

"The real test will come over the next year or two," says Ostrove. "The rate that new contracts with SpaceX are signed, compared to the past few years, will demonstrate how satellite operators feel about this move."

Follow me on Twitter or Facebook. Read my Forbes blog here.