Residents Of South Delhi Should Get Ready To Pay 'Waste Charge' As SDMC Plans To Fight Pollution
Residents Of South Delhi Should Get Ready To Pay Waste Charge As SDMC Plans To Fight Pollution
Residents Of South Delhi Should Get Ready To Pay 'Waste Charge' As SDMC Plans To Fight Pollution The south corporation has approved an proposal to impose waste generation charges from users for generating construction and demolition waste. The charge has been decided as per the C&D Waste Management Rules notified in 2016. According to the rules, any user generating over 20 tonnes a day or 300 tonnes per project in a month will have to pay for processing and disposing construction and demolition waste besides for its storage, collection and transportation. The same policy has already been adopted by the north corporation, which already has a construction and demolition waste plant in Burari. LG Anil Baijal recently directed it to install another plant at Ranikhera by December 31. The south corporation, which is planning to set up its own plant, has decided to impose a processing fee of Rs 205 per metric tonne at the time of sanctioning a building plan and Rs 225 per metric tonne for lifting waste from a dumping ground that would be increased 10% after every two years. The areas under the south corporation generate about 500 metric tonnes of construction and demolition waste every day. "This will help us curb dust pollution from malba. Most people and builders dump construction and demolition waste in an open space without adhering to the guidelines," said a senior official. Such waste will also be recycled and its products can be used for paving blocks, lower layers of road pavements, and colony and rural roads. The south corporation has also asked its zonal offices to impose fine to curb illegal construction. "The fine will be 1.5 times more than the proposed charges for waste generation. This is in addition to any other charge levied on such constructions," said an official.

The south corporation has approved an proposal to impose waste generation charges from users for generating construction and demolition waste. The charge has been decided as per the C&D Waste Management Rules notified in 2016.

BCCL/representational image

According to the rules, any user generating over 20 tonnes a day or 300 tonnes per project in a month will have to pay for processing and disposing construction and demolition waste besides for its storage, collection and transportation. The same policy has already been adopted by the north corporation, which already has a construction and demolition waste plant in Burari. LG Anil Baijal recently directed it to install another plant at Ranikhera by December 31.

BCCL/representational image

The south corporation, which is planning to set up its own plant, has decided to impose a processing fee of Rs 205 per metric tonne at the time of sanctioning a building plan and Rs 225 per metric tonne for lifting waste from a dumping ground that would be increased 10% after every two years. The areas under the south corporation generate about 500 metric tonnes of construction and demolition waste every day.

"This will help us curb dust pollution from malba. Most people and builders dump construction and demolition waste in an open space without adhering to the guidelines," said a senior official. Such waste will also be recycled and its products can be used for paving blocks, lower layers of road pavements, and colony and rural roads.

BCCL/representational image

The south corporation has also asked its zonal offices to impose fine to curb illegal construction. "The fine will be 1.5 times more than the proposed charges for waste generation. This is in addition to any other charge levied on such constructions," said an official.

Inputs From TNN

Don't Miss 3.6 K SHARES 23.8 K SHARES 34.4 K SHARES 56.6 K SHARES 42.3 K SHARES