Plenty of Oscars Drama, but Disappointing Ratings
Plenty of Oscars Drama, but Disappointing Ratings
The Academy Awards had their most chaotic conclusion ever on Sunday night, but a relatively small audience was watching it. The ceremony, broadcast on ABC, drew 32.9 million viewers, the second-lowest total since Nielsen started tracking viewership in 1974. This is the third straight year of declining viewership for the show, and the ratings hit is a significant one: In the last three years, the Oscars have shed more than 10 million viewers. The only Oscars broadcast to fare worse was the 2008 show, which had 32 million viewers and aired shortly after a writers’ strike had ended. Last year, ABC secured broadcast rights for the show until 2028 — at a cost of roughly $75 million a year — and through the contract negotiations, the network was given a bit more creative input into the show. To wit, ABC got the host it long wanted : its late night star, Jimmy Kimmel. Advertisement But the show was a long one, even by Oscars standards. At nearly four hours, it clocked in as the longest in a decade. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy For the last two years, awards shows have experienced sustained losses in viewership , but this year has brought an early turnaround: The Golden Globes and the Grammys each had ratings increases. Still, like the Super Bowl in early February — which featured its own heart-stopping conclusion — the Oscars had its viewership fall. There will most likely be a number of theories as to why viewership has dropped. Last year, the controversy surrounding #OscarsSoWhite, a movement on social media aimed at the lack of diversity among the nominees, led to speculation that viewers could be turned off by the prospect of an hourslong civics lecture. This year brought the prospect of political speeches aimed at the Trump administration from an entertainment industry that largely opposes the president. Ratings are also often driven by the popularity of the movies in contention. “Moonlight,” which won the best picture award, was a favorite in big cities like Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco but was ignored by much of the heartland. On Sunday night, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco were among the top five markets to watch the Oscars, according to Nielsen. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.          OSCARS BRIEFING

Photo

The Academy Awards had their most chaotic conclusion ever on Sunday night, but a relatively small audience was watching it.

The ceremony, broadcast on ABC, drew 32.9 million viewers, the second-lowest total since Nielsen started tracking viewership in 1974.

This is the third straight year of declining viewership for the show, and the ratings hit is a significant one: In the last three years, the Oscars have shed more than 10 million viewers.

The only Oscars broadcast to fare worse was the 2008 show, which had 32 million viewers and aired shortly after a writers’ strike had ended.

Last year, ABC secured broadcast rights for the show until 2028 — at a cost of roughly $75 million a year — and through the contract negotiations, the network was given a bit more creative input into the show. To wit, ABC got the host it long wanted: its late night star, Jimmy Kimmel.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the show was a long one, even by Oscars standards. At nearly four hours, it clocked in as the longest in a decade.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

For the last two years, awards shows have experienced sustained losses in viewership, but this year has brought an early turnaround: The Golden Globes and the Grammys each had ratings increases. Still, like the Super Bowl in early February — which featured its own heart-stopping conclusion — the Oscars had its viewership fall.

There will most likely be a number of theories as to why viewership has dropped. Last year, the controversy surrounding #OscarsSoWhite, a movement on social media aimed at the lack of diversity among the nominees, led to speculation that viewers could be turned off by the prospect of an hourslong civics lecture. This year brought the prospect of political speeches aimed at the Trump administration from an entertainment industry that largely opposes the president.

Ratings are also often driven by the popularity of the movies in contention. “Moonlight,” which won the best picture award, was a favorite in big cities like Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco but was ignored by much of the heartland.

On Sunday night, Chicago, Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco were among the top five markets to watch the Oscars, according to Nielsen.