Controversial Kerala Catholic Priest Who Raped And Impregnated A 16-Year-Old Girl Arrested
Controversial Kerala Catholic Priest Who Raped And Impregnated A 16-Year-Old Girl Arrested
Controversial Kerala Catholic Priest Who Raped And Impregnated A 16-Year-Old Girl Arrested Kerala police have arrested Father Robin Vaddakumchiryil, a Christian priest accused of raping a minor girl. He was arrested on late on Monday while he was reportedly trying to flee the country. The victim was a student at a school where the accused was the manager. According to police the accused sexually abused the victim in May 2016. The crime came to light only after the Childline got an anonymous tip-off last week that the victim had given birth to a boy child. The girl was traced by the childline and a formal police complaint was filed on Sunday. There is also allegation that the priest tried to offer Rs 10 lakhs to the victim's family and implicate her father in the case. The victim in her initial statement had named her father as the rapist, but in detailed interrogation admitted that she was abused by the priest. “The priest also made an attempt to implicate the girl’s father in the case. Since the family is from an economically weaker section he tried to implicate him and told many about this,” a police officer said. Police said the priest has been booked under the POCSO Act and a DNA test will be performed. The private hospital in which the victim delivered the baby will also be booked for hiding the information. The Mananthavady diocese, which Fr Robin belongs to said he has been removed from all religious duties.

Kerala police have arrested Father Robin Vaddakumchiryil, a Christian priest accused of raping a minor girl.

He was arrested on late on Monday while he was reportedly trying to flee the country. The victim was a student at a school where the accused was the manager.

According to police the accused sexually abused the victim in May 2016. The crime came to light only after the Childline got an anonymous tip-off last week that the victim had given birth to a boy child.

The girl was traced by the childline and a formal police complaint was filed on Sunday.

ANI

There is also allegation that the priest tried to offer Rs 10 lakhs to the victim's family and implicate her father in the case.

The victim in her initial statement had named her father as the rapist, but in detailed interrogation admitted that she was abused by the priest.

“The priest also made an attempt to implicate the girl’s father in the case. Since the family is from an economically weaker section he tried to implicate him and told many about this,” a police officer said.

ANI

Police said the priest has been booked under the POCSO Act and a DNA test will be performed. The private hospital in which the victim delivered the baby will also be booked for hiding the information.

The Mananthavady diocese, which Fr Robin belongs to said he has been removed from all religious duties.

Don't Miss 23.8 K SHARES 34.4 K SHARES 56.6 K SHARES 42.3 K SHARES 29.8 K SHARES