Australian economy grows 1.1pc in December quarter, recession averted



Australian economy grows 1.1pc in December quarter, recession averted

Updated

Australia's economy grew a strong 1.1 per cent in the fourth quarter, averting a technical recession after the September quarter contraction.

The strong December quarter helped lift Australia's annual economic growth back up to a respectable, but still below average, 2.4 per cent.

The quarterly growth figure was even stronger than already rosy market expectations.

Many less optimistic economists raised their expectations for GDP yesterday afternoon, after a raft of economic data from the December quarter indicated growth may be stronger than the 0.7 per cent that the typical forecaster had previously been predicting.

Westpac was a case in point, raising its quarterly forecast from 0.4 per cent to 0.9 per cent.

The Bureau of Statistics said rising household spending (0.5 percentage points) and public investment in things such as infrastructure (0.3 percentage points) were the two biggest contributors to the nation's growth at the end of last year.

However, the 1.2 per cent surge in household spending may prove to be an unsustainable component of growth, being driven mostly by a steep fall in the savings ratio from 6.3 to 5.2 per cent.

Wages retreat as profits jump

Household disposable incomes rose a mere 0.2 per cent, explaining why people were dipping into their nest eggs to fund consumption.

The weakness in household incomes, in turn, was driven by a fall in the "compensation of employees", or pay packets, for the first time since the September quarter of 2012. Workers' pay was down 0.5 per cent in the quarter.

This is because wages growth is the weakest on records back to the late-1990s, while underemployment remains prevalent with a trend towards part-time work.

There was no such problem for corporate profits, however, which are at record levels.

Which perhaps explains a sharp divergence between consumer confidence and business conditions over recent months.

However, Treasurer Scott Morrison said these profits are the necessary condition for more jobs and wage growth.

"You can't get a job in a business that is closed or is not hiring. You can't pay a pay rise in a business that is not profiting," he told reporters.

"Profits and wages are co-dependent."

Those profits were boosted by a surge in commodity prices, which also raised Australia's terms of trade by a massive 9.1 per cent over the quarter.

The terms of trade measure the prices Australia gets for its exports versus what it pays for imports.

This in turn has lifted "nominal GDP" which, unlike the headline "real GDP" figure, includes the change in prices not just the volume of output.

Nominal GDP surged 3 per cent during the quarter, which led to a 2.9 per cent jump in "real net national disposable income", and a large 6.8 per cent increase over the year.

The ABS describes real net national disposable income per capita as the best measure of changing living standards in the National Accounts data, and it jumped 2.5 per cent in the fourth quarter.

It has been increasing for the past year, after Australia had been in an "income recession", where this measure had fallen for six of the previous seven quarters before that.

"The income recession of 2015 has given way to a mini income boom," observed Paul Dales from Capital Economics in a note.

Economy still set to 'underperform' this year

However, given that most of this income is going towards corporate profits, unless it surprisingly sparks a business investment boom, Mr Dales said economic growth is likely to fall back down in future quarters.

"The recent falls in building approvals means that dwelling investment may soon fall too and with wage growth at a record low households won't continue to boost their spending as rapidly," he said.

"In other words, the boost to national income from higher commodity prices will mostly boost profits rather than activity.

"Real GDP will still underperform this year, with growth being between 2 per cent and 2.5 per cent."

Moody's Analytics economist Emily Dabbs agreed that the best has probably now passed for quarterly growth.

"The strength in the December quarter is due to the low base effect from that decline in September quarter. So we don't expect this type of growth in coming quarters, that's for sure," she told Reuters.

"The Australian economy is performing well but, on the domestic front, weak wage growth is crimping household demand. So that will probably weigh on growth."

Deutsche Bank's Adam Boyton pointed out that consumer confidence has been relatively weak, and as they are most of the customers who buy goods and services from businesses, may turn for the worse.

"The national accounts data is consistent with the gap that has opened up between measures of consumer and business confidence/conditions," he in a note.

"Typically we would view the risks as being that the business sector 'corrects' to the consumer sector - i.e. the latter tends to lead.

"The weakness in household sector incomes also poses a risk that the robust household consumption outturn seen in the fourth quarter of 2016 is not repeated."

Topics: economic-trends, money-and-monetary-policy, australia

First posted