Donald Trump met with loud groans in Congress after launching plan to publish weekly list of crimes by immigrants
Donald Trump met with loud groans in Congress after launching plan to publish weekly list of crimes by immigrants
Popular videos    Trump makes his biggest promise yet...'Everything can be fixed'      Donald Trump will publish regular list of crimes by immigrants      Donald Trump seems to admit Mexico will never pay for his border wall      Trump claims victory was 'rebellion of the people'   Donald Trump was met with loud groans after he launched a plan to publish a weekly list of crimes by immigrants . The President was met with almost unanimous applause during his first speech to Congress, and a number of standing ovations, even for his most controversial policies. But a new plan for an agency focused on crime by immigrants appeared to upset even his most ardent supporters among lawmakers . During his speech, Mr Trump announced that he had launched a new agency that would compile list of all immigrants who had committed crimes – apparently whether or not they are in the country illegally. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and abortion   Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March   Getty     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC   Getty Images     Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images  "I have ordered the Department of Homeland Security to create an office to serve American Victims," he told Congress. "The office is called VOICE — Victims Of Immigration Crime Engagement. We are providing a voice to those who have been ignored by our media, and silenced by special interests." But after he made the announcement, he was met with relative silence. The only audible noise was what appeared to be groans of criticism from lawmakers. That was despite applause and standing ovations for policies including the border wall, Mr Trump's failed attempt to ban Muslim people from a selection of countries from entering the US and other controversial policies. The plan for a weekly list of immigrant crime has been likened to one of the most controversial sections, "Black Crime", on the Breitbart News website. Steve Bannon, who until recently edited that site, is now Mr Trump's closest advisor in the White House. More about: Donald Trump voice Comments

Donald Trump was met with loud groans after he launched a plan to publish a weekly list of crimes by immigrants.

The President was met with almost unanimous applause during his first speech to Congress, and a number of standing ovations, even for his most controversial policies. But a new plan for an agency focused on crime by immigrants appeared to upset even his most ardent supporters among lawmakers.

During his speech, Mr Trump announced that he had launched a new agency that would compile list of all immigrants who had committed crimes – apparently whether or not they are in the country illegally.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







10 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued

















1/10 Trump and abortion Protesters flood Independence Avenue during the Women's March Getty

2/10 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

3/10 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

4/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

5/10 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

6/10 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

7/10 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

8/10 Trump and the media White House spokesman Sean Spicer arrives to speak at the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington DC Getty Images

9/10 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

10/10 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

"I have ordered the Department of Homeland Security to create an office to serve American Victims," he told Congress. "The office is called VOICE — Victims Of Immigration Crime Engagement. We are providing a voice to those who have been ignored by our media, and silenced by special interests."

But after he made the announcement, he was met with relative silence. The only audible noise was what appeared to be groans of criticism from lawmakers.

That was despite applause and standing ovations for policies including the border wall, Mr Trump's failed attempt to ban Muslim people from a selection of countries from entering the US and other controversial policies.

The plan for a weekly list of immigrant crime has been likened to one of the most controversial sections, "Black Crime", on the Breitbart News website. Steve Bannon, who until recently edited that site, is now Mr Trump's closest advisor in the White House.