The Salary Chronicles: A $200K Job Offer Showed Me My Potential Was Limitless
The Salary Chronicles: A $200K Job Offer Showed Me My Potential Was Limitless
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Erica Gellerman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Continued from page 1 Though making more money is nice, what’s most important to me right now isn’t the salary. It’s that I now see potential and growth in my career that I didn’t have before. I’m acknowledged and appreciated both with money and with great career options, and I’m happy that I left a comfortable job to pursue something new.    Trending on {{channel_name}}

Continued from page 1

The recruiter called me after an interview and asked my salary expectations. I had already told her what I was currently making and I didn’t want to give an exact number for my salary expectations. I decided to say, “If i’m going to leave my current company it’s going to need to be a significant jump in order for me to feel secure.”

She responded that it should be a problem because my base salary was “so low.”

So low? I was so surprised to hear her say that because I thought I was being paid well. That was the first time I realized that I was underpaid.

The recruiter later came back with an offer for me: $140k plus a 25% bonus target. That was more than what I was expecting and was absolutely enough for me to feel comfortable leaving the security blanket of my current company.

Once you transitioned to the new role (and salary), how did it feel?

There hasn’t been a day where I’ve regretted my decision to make this change. Ten months into the new role I was promoted to manage a large HR team, and received another salary increase to $160k. With this base salary increase and the bonus paying out over target during my first year in the role, I made double what I was making at my old company. That’s a huge jump to make in a year, especially when I was used to 6-8% increases each year.

I’m still a bit surprised by my salary and it’s hard for me to believe I should be paid this well, but I also have a lot of excitement about the future. In my first year here I’ve excelled and I feel like there are opportunities for growth that I never would have had with my old company. During my annual review, my boss said to me “one day when you’re running HR”, and it never occurred to me that could be a possibility, because it wasn’t before. Now not only am I starting to see it as a possibility, the people around me see it as a possibility as well. I feel like there are no limits on me and my professional growth anymore.

Though making more money is nice, what’s most important to me right now isn’t the salary. It’s that I now see potential and growth in my career that I didn’t have before. I’m acknowledged and appreciated both with money and with great career options, and I’m happy that I left a comfortable job to pursue something new.

What advice do you have for other women?

Look out for your own self-interests first, rather than prioritizing loyalty to a company. I had a lot of guilt about leaving a company I had been with for so long, but I now tell people to make their interests a priority - the company is doing the same, so don’t feel bad about it. As long as your interests and the company’s interests align, that’s great. But if that changes and your best interest is no longer aligned with how you’re being treated and the opportunities that you have, you owe it to yourself to explore all your options - you might be surprised what you discover !

For more Salary Chronicle stories, click here.

Ready to get paid what you deserve? Or do you have your own story to share? Join me at The Worth Project to speak up, stand out, and earn more.