Producer Who Is Very Much Alive Mistakenly Included in Oscars 'In Memoriam' Tribute
Producer Who Is Very Much Alive Mistakenly Included in Oscars 'In Memoriam' Tribute
Damn. The Oscars ceremony this year was on another level. The biggest f*ck-up of the night, of course, was that baffling Best Picture moment in which the team was briefly convinced they had nabbed the highest honor before an envelope mix-up revealed as the actual winner. Somehow, that wasn't the only WTF whoops of the night: Pic of my pal Jan Chapman- very much alive - was just featured in In Memoriam. #Oscars A photo of Australian producer Jan Chapman, a person who is alive, was mistakenly used during Sunday's In Memoriam segment instead of a photo of the late costume designer Janet Patterson. Speaking with  Monday, Chapman said she had reached out prior to the broadcast to confirm an accurate image of her friend and collaborator would be used. "I was devastated by the use of my image in place of my great friend and long-time collaborator Janet Patterson," Chapman said . "I had urged her agency to check any photograph which might be used and understand that they were told that the Academy had it covered." Chapman, adding that she is "alive and well," said she was disappointed the error wasn't caught before airing. Patterson, known for her work on and , died in October 2016. The mistake was promptly noticed by many viewers during the live broadcast: oh god that was Jan Chapman wasn't it #JanetPatterson , the tall brunette beauty shown here in the middle, is the accomplished costume designer who passed away in 2016 #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/7JzKPngsHE btw the woman wrongly shown as dead is the great Australian producer Jan Chapman who tends to make movies by women Oops. Did #Oscars just show living producer Jan Chapman in place of deceased costume designer Janet Patterson during In Memoriam?! That was a photo of producer Jan Chapman NOT costume designer Janet Patterson although they did work together #oscars  #inmemoriam  #oops THAT'S NOT JANET PATTERSON! #OSCARS Jan Chapman is ok Smh. The Oscars' In Memoriam tribute also totally snubbed the late Garry Shandling , the legendary comedian and actor who passed in March 2016.

Damn. The Oscars ceremony this year was on another level. The biggest f*ck-up of the night, of course, was that baffling Best Picture moment in which the La La Land team was briefly convinced they had nabbed the highest honor before an envelope mix-up revealed Moonlight as the actual winner. Somehow, that wasn't the only WTF whoops of the night:

Pic of my pal Jan Chapman- very much alive - was just featured in In Memoriam. #Oscars — Virginia M Moncrieff (@VMMoncrieff) February 27, 2017

A photo of Australian producer Jan Chapman, a person who is alive, was mistakenly used during Sunday's In Memoriam segment instead of a photo of the late costume designer Janet Patterson. Speaking with Variety Monday, Chapman said she had reached out prior to the broadcast to confirm an accurate image of her friend and collaborator would be used.

"I was devastated by the use of my image in place of my great friend and long-time collaborator Janet Patterson," Chapman said. "I had urged her agency to check any photograph which might be used and understand that they were told that the Academy had it covered." Chapman, adding that she is "alive and well," said she was disappointed the error wasn't caught before airing. Patterson, known for her work on The Piano and Bright Star, died in October 2016.

The mistake was promptly noticed by many viewers during the live broadcast:

oh god that was Jan Chapman wasn't it — palace films (@palacefilms) February 27, 2017

#JanetPatterson, the tall brunette beauty shown here in the middle, is the accomplished costume designer who passed away in 2016 #Oscars pic.twitter.com/7JzKPngsHE — Summer Brennan (@summerbrennan) February 27, 2017

btw the woman wrongly shown as dead is the great Australian producer Jan Chapman who tends to make movies by women — Bront (@bmrow) February 27, 2017

Oops. Did #Oscars just show living producer Jan Chapman in place of deceased costume designer Janet Patterson during In Memoriam?! — Stephen Groenewegen (@swgroenewegen) February 27, 2017

That was a photo of producer Jan Chapman NOT costume designer Janet Patterson although they did work together #oscars #inmemoriam #oops — Sarah Finney (@SarahLFinney) February 27, 2017

THAT'S NOT JANET PATTERSON! #OSCARS Jan Chapman is ok — Fiona Williams (@anythingbutfifi) February 27, 2017

Smh.

The Oscars' In Memoriam tribute also totally snubbed the late Garry Shandling, the legendary comedian and actor who passed in March 2016.