Australian Police Arrests Man On Charges Of Helping ISIS Develop Missile Technology
Australian Authorities Arrest Man For Allegedly Helping ISIS With Missile Technology
Australian Police Arrests Man On Charges Of Helping ISIS Develop Missile Technology An unidentified Australian man has been arrested in a raid by Australian counter terrorism police in connection of ISIS. The man arrested by authorities on Tuesday is accused of seeking to help the ISIS by developing missile technology.  Police including a dog squad, and officers handling metal detectors  raided a property in Young, about 270 km (170 miles) southwest of Sydney, earlier on Tuesday, pictures on Australian media showed. Assistant Commissioner of counter-terrorism, Australian Federal Police, Ian McCartney,  told  reporters that the 42-year-old man had been advising the terror group on how to develop the technical capability to detect guided missiles and to build their own missiles. "We will also allege that he has been researching, designing and modelling systems to assist ISIS's efforts to develop their own long-range guided missile capabilities," Mr McCartney said. The other police sources also alleged that man had been attempting to research and design a laser missile warning device which he sought to give to ISIS. The Australian-born man, who was trained as an electrician, was expected to face court later on Tuesday, police said. Coalition forces which  Australia is also a part of has uprooted IS from many parts of Iraq and Syria and last IS bastion in  form of Mosul is also under seize of the forces. A staunch US ally, Australia also sent troops to fight in Afghanistan and Iraq and has been on heightened alert for attacks by home-grown terrorists since 2014. Though lately Australian authorities have thwarted many attempts of teenagers being radicalised, this is the first case where an arrest has been made in connection with the person offering technical assistance to the ISIS.

An unidentified Australian man has been arrested in a raid by Australian counter terrorism police in connection of ISIS. The man arrested by authorities on Tuesday is accused of seeking to help the ISIS by developing missile technology. Police including a dog squad, and officers handling metal detectors raided a property in Young, about 270 km (170 miles) southwest of Sydney, earlier on Tuesday, pictures on Australian media showed.

Assistant Commissioner of counter-terrorism, Australian Federal Police, Ian McCartney, told reporters that the 42-year-old man had been advising the terror group on how to develop the technical capability to detect guided missiles and to build their own missiles.

AFP

"We will also allege that he has been researching, designing and modelling systems to assist ISIS's efforts to develop their own long-range guided missile capabilities," Mr McCartney said.

The other police sources also alleged that man had been attempting to research and design a laser missile warning device which he sought to give to ISIS. The Australian-born man, who was trained as an electrician, was expected to face court later on Tuesday, police said.

Coalition forces which Australia is also a part of has uprooted IS from many parts of Iraq and Syria and last IS bastion in form of Mosul is also under seize of the forces. A staunch US ally, Australia also sent troops to fight in Afghanistan and Iraq and has been on heightened alert for attacks by home-grown terrorists since 2014.

AFP

Though lately Australian authorities have thwarted many attempts of teenagers being radicalised, this is the first case where an arrest has been made in connection with the person offering technical assistance to the ISIS.

Don't Miss 249 SHARES 1.9 K SHARES 23.8 K SHARES 34.3 K SHARES 56.6 K SHARES