21 Things You Know If You Prefer Dirty Eating To Clean Eating
21 Things You Know If You Prefer Dirty Eating To Clean Eating
You definitely have good intentions when it comes to food. “Broccoli has so much iron in it. Iron is good for me. Watch as I eat the irony broccoli.” But then there’s the issue of your deep, deep love of pizza. It really clouds your judgment. You love the idea of a nourishing yet hearty salad, full of vegetables and vitamins and goodness. But when it comes to actually choosing some food to eat it turns out you love the idea of cheese and carbs more. You’re a positive person, and start each day as you mean to go on – until you get offered some cake. Did you mention your other weakness? It’s cake. When people ask if you eat your “five a day”, you nod. They don’t need to know it’s cookies. Cookies have flour in and flour came from a plant right? You also eat AT LEAST five tomatoes in your bolognese sauce. Every now and then you get serious, and buy an expensive green sludgey health drink packed full of niche nutrients that your body is crying out for. The best thing about the health drink is that you don’t feel guilty when you have a large Pepsi later that day. This logic works for food as well. You can definitely see the advantages of healthy eating but you can see the disadvantages too. On the other hand, you find it extremely hard to argue with a delicious plate of pasta. …or a bowl of ice cream. It’s not that you have willpower when it comes to making food choices – you’re quite determined when you set your mind to something. It’s just that quite often you’re determined to eat a massive salami sandwich. And you rarely regret it. Or maybe you’re determined to try a little bit of everything on the buffet. You’re tenacious, that’s what you’ve always liked about you. You respect people whose social media looks like this:  View on Instagram They are going to live for a very long time, and run up and down a lot of hills. But yours looks more like this, and you respect yourself too. You really put a lot of effort into enjoying your food. Your love of dirty eating can be distracting at times. But that’s only because you’re so passionate about the things that interest you. You love food so much, you’re basically in a relationship with it. And there’s nothing wrong with that.   16 Batshit Theories About Space That Will Freak You...    Here Are 18 Facts We Didn't Know At The Start Of February...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.