Lawmakers react to Trump's joint address to Congress
Reactions to Trump's joint address to Congress
Shares               President Donald Trump 's first address to a joint session of Congress received mixed reactions from lawmakers on Tuesday night. Republican Speaker of the House Paul Ryan called the president's speech a "home run" in a statement. "That was a home run. President Trump delivered a bold, optimistic message to the American people," Ryan's statement read. "We now have a government unified around a simple, but important principle: Empowering the people -- not Washington -- is the way to build a better future for our country." But House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) expressed the opposite sentiment, tweeting that Trump's speech "was utterly disconnected from the cruel reality of his conduct."   Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) said he appreciated the president's speech in a statement, hoping that it might get both parties to work together in the future. “I appreciate the President highlighting some of the work he and Congress are pursuing to empower America’s families and job creators," Bost's statement read. "I am hopeful that both parties can find areas of common ground moving forward to achieve this positive, pro-growth agenda.” Sen. David Perdue (R-GA) echoed Speaker Ryan's remarks, saying in a statement: "President Trump has hit the ground running and is keeping his promises to the American people. He has put the needs of Americans first and the results he's already achieved have brought forward a renewed spirit of optimism in our country." While praising Trump's speech in separate remarks, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) took to Twitter saying: "We should honor the promise we made to the American People -- #FullRepeal of Obamacare." Sen. Bernie Sanders (D-VT) took to Facebook live to respond to the president's joint address, going in on "what he didn't say." "I did not hear President Trump say one word -- not one word -- about social security or medicare," Sanders said. "I urge President Trump, keep your promises. Tell the American people, tweet to the American people, that you will not cut social security, medicare, and medicaid." Two of Sanders' Democratic colleagues took up different points of contention with the president's policies. Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) tweeted, "Trump’s wall is a waste of money and an insult to our values," with the hashtags "#NoBanNoWall" and "#JointSession." While Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) tweeted, "Families shouldn’t be forced to live in fear. We must fight back against President Trump’s hateful immigration policies. #Jointsession." A number of celebrities also took to social media to react, with mixed responses , to Trump's joint address. Actor George Takei tweeted in the middle of the speech, "Sorry, just had to get up to go throw up." Comedian Billy Eichner responded to Trump's remarks on illegal immigration by tweeting, "I cannot even tell you how much more scared I am of Trump, Bannon and Miller than I am of the average illegal immigrant." Shares                  Reactions to Trump's joint address to Congress   O'Donnell leads anti-Trump protest ahead of congressional address   Emanuel slams Trump over comments about Chicago's murder rate   Seven lines to remember from Trump's joint address   Who Trump invited to his first joint address to Congress   Fallen Navy SEAL's widow receives standing ovation during Trump's address   Full text of Democratic response to President Trump's address to Congress   Fact-checking President Trump's congressional address   ANALYSIS: President Trump brings new tone to old promises   Trump pitches unity to Congress amid turbulent start to presidency   Celebrities, other public figures react to Trump's joint address   Melania Trump sparkles in Michael Kors for joint address   Trump's new travel ban expected Wednesday   Ex-governor defends Obamacare in response to Trump's speech   EPA chief Pruitt's ex-office given more time on emails   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Artist makes cookies inspired by Oscar red carpet fashions   Woman's 'arrest' leads to surprise proposal   Babies photographed cuddled up in molds of their moms' pregnant bellies   Dad accepts 'best husband' award in gym shorts before Oscars   1st look: New toys of 2017   Meet Darla, the therapy chicken helping to educate her community

President Donald Trump's first address to a joint session of Congress received mixed reactions from lawmakers on Tuesday night.

Republican Speaker of the House Paul Ryan called the president's speech a "home run" in a statement.

"That was a home run. President Trump delivered a bold, optimistic message to the American people," Ryan's statement read. "We now have a government unified around a simple, but important principle: Empowering the people -- not Washington -- is the way to build a better future for our country."

But House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) expressed the opposite sentiment, tweeting that Trump's speech "was utterly disconnected from the cruel reality of his conduct."

Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL) said he appreciated the president's speech in a statement, hoping that it might get both parties to work together in the future.

“I appreciate the President highlighting some of the work he and Congress are pursuing to empower America’s families and job creators," Bost's statement read. "I am hopeful that both parties can find areas of common ground moving forward to achieve this positive, pro-growth agenda.”

Sen. David Perdue (R-GA) echoed Speaker Ryan's remarks, saying in a statement: "President Trump has hit the ground running and is keeping his promises to the American people. He has put the needs of Americans first and the results he's already achieved have brought forward a renewed spirit of optimism in our country."

While praising Trump's speech in separate remarks, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) took to Twitter saying: "We should honor the promise we made to the American People -- #FullRepeal of Obamacare."

Sen. Bernie Sanders (D-VT) took to Facebook live to respond to the president's joint address, going in on "what he didn't say."

"I did not hear President Trump say one word -- not one word -- about social security or medicare," Sanders said. "I urge President Trump, keep your promises. Tell the American people, tweet to the American people, that you will not cut social security, medicare, and medicaid."

Two of Sanders' Democratic colleagues took up different points of contention with the president's policies.

Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) tweeted, "Trump’s wall is a waste of money and an insult to our values," with the hashtags "#NoBanNoWall" and "#JointSession." While Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) tweeted, "Families shouldn’t be forced to live in fear. We must fight back against President Trump’s hateful immigration policies. #Jointsession."

A number of celebrities also took to social media to react, with mixed responses, to Trump's joint address. Actor George Takei tweeted in the middle of the speech, "Sorry, just had to get up to go throw up."

Comedian Billy Eichner responded to Trump's remarks on illegal immigration by tweeting, "I cannot even tell you how much more scared I am of Trump, Bannon and Miller than I am of the average illegal immigrant."