Report: Denver Broncos are in ‘driver’s seat’ to land Tony Romo

Tony Romo’s days as a Dallas Cowboy appear to be dwindling, leading to speculation about which team might land the veteran quarterback’s services. According to a report Tuesday, the Broncos are the front-runners to sign Romo, as long as they can agree on compensation. Denver is “clearly in the driver’s seat in the potential Tony Romo free agent sweepstakes,” NFL Network’s Ian Rapoport said. He added that Romo would need to be “willing to take a pay cut” from the $14 million base salary he is set to receive in 2017 (per Spotrac ). Rapoport said that, for salary cap reasons, the Cowboys won’t cut Romo before March 9, when the NFL begins its next league year and free agency opens. At that point, or shortly thereafter, it is looking increasingly likely that Dallas will part ways with the quarterback who arrived as an undrafted free agent in 2004 and was its primary starter from 2006 through 2015. Of a sit-down between Cowboys management and Romo, Stephen Jones, the team’s executive vice president and son of owner Jerry Jones, said (via dallascowboys.com ), “Yeah, I would say it’s going to come. I think Jerry’s going to be due to meet with him sooner than later.” Jerry Jones is close with Romo, a four-time Pro Bowler who is the franchise leader in passing yards (34,183) and touchdowns (248). Over the past two seasons, however, injuries have hindered Romo, who turns 34 in April, and he lost his starting job to rookie Dak Prescott last year.   According to Rapoport’s scenario, Romo may have to choose in free agency between his biggest payday and the best situation in which to chase his first NFL title. The Broncos won the Super Bowl with Peyton Manning in 2016, but following his retirement, they slumped to 9-7 last season and missed the playoffs. Denver spent a first-round pick on Paxton Lynch but gave most of the starts to another inexperienced quarterback, Trevor Siemian. Both performed reasonably well relative to expectations, and team President John Elway is reportedly willing to let that duo battle for the starting job this season. But Elway also would likely be intrigued at the possibility of maximizing his team’s championship window by bringing in Romo. Rapoport referred to a recent Kansas City Star article in which Chiefs owner Clark Hunt said that Alex Smith would remain that team’s starting quarterback. With Carson Palmer returning to the Cardinals, it appears that Romo won’t have many desirable destinations, although the Texans remain a possibility, increasing the likelihood that he could come to an agreement with the Broncos. In the meantime, the Cowboys sound like a team preparing to say goodbye to Romo. “What he’s done for this franchise just speaks volumes for what he means to the Dallas Cowboys, to the organization, to our family,” Stephen Jones said. “I mean, this guy has played tremendous football. “He’s given us big seasons, and we’re all — I think Jerry said it best: Unfortunately, that’s one of our biggest regrets right now, is we haven’t been able to put a team around Tony, when he’s healthy, that he could win a Super Bowl.”



Tony Romo became the Cowboys’ starting quarterback in 2006 but lost his job last year to Dak Prescott. (Mark Tenally/Associated Press)

Tony Romo’s days as a Dallas Cowboy appear to be dwindling, leading to speculation about which team might land the veteran quarterback’s services. According to a report Tuesday, the Broncos are the front-runners to sign Romo, as long as they can agree on compensation.

Denver is “clearly in the driver’s seat in the potential Tony Romo free agent sweepstakes,” NFL Network’s Ian Rapoport said. He added that Romo would need to be “willing to take a pay cut” from the $14 million base salary he is set to receive in 2017 (per Spotrac).

Rapoport said that, for salary cap reasons, the Cowboys won’t cut Romo before March 9, when the NFL begins its next league year and free agency opens. At that point, or shortly thereafter, it is looking increasingly likely that Dallas will part ways with the quarterback who arrived as an undrafted free agent in 2004 and was its primary starter from 2006 through 2015.

Of a sit-down between Cowboys management and Romo, Stephen Jones, the team’s executive vice president and son of owner Jerry Jones, said (via dallascowboys.com), “Yeah, I would say it’s going to come. I think Jerry’s going to be due to meet with him sooner than later.”

Jerry Jones is close with Romo, a four-time Pro Bowler who is the franchise leader in passing yards (34,183) and touchdowns (248). Over the past two seasons, however, injuries have hindered Romo, who turns 34 in April, and he lost his starting job to rookie Dak Prescott last year.

[Randy Moss and Terrell Owens are not Hall of Famers, says Hall of Fame GM Bill Polian]

According to Rapoport’s scenario, Romo may have to choose in free agency between his biggest payday and the best situation in which to chase his first NFL title. The Broncos won the Super Bowl with Peyton Manning in 2016, but following his retirement, they slumped to 9-7 last season and missed the playoffs.

Denver spent a first-round pick on Paxton Lynch but gave most of the starts to another inexperienced quarterback, Trevor Siemian. Both performed reasonably well relative to expectations, and team President John Elway is reportedly willing to let that duo battle for the starting job this season. But Elway also would likely be intrigued at the possibility of maximizing his team’s championship window by bringing in Romo.

Rapoport referred to a recent Kansas City Star article in which Chiefs owner Clark Hunt said that Alex Smith would remain that team’s starting quarterback. With Carson Palmer returning to the Cardinals, it appears that Romo won’t have many desirable destinations, although the Texans remain a possibility, increasing the likelihood that he could come to an agreement with the Broncos.

In the meantime, the Cowboys sound like a team preparing to say goodbye to Romo. “What he’s done for this franchise just speaks volumes for what he means to the Dallas Cowboys, to the organization, to our family,” Stephen Jones said. “I mean, this guy has played tremendous football.

“He’s given us big seasons, and we’re all — I think Jerry said it best: Unfortunately, that’s one of our biggest regrets right now, is we haven’t been able to put a team around Tony, when he’s healthy, that he could win a Super Bowl.”