Islam 'to become most popular global religion by 2070'
Islam to become most popular world religion by 2070, research shows


Islam will overcome Christianity to become the most popular religion in the world by 2070 with migration seeing a surge in Europe and America's Muslim population, research shows.

The religion's share of the world's population will equal the Christian share - at roughly 32 per cent each - in 53 year's time, according to the Pew Research Center, based in Washington DC.

By 2100 around one per cent more of the world's population will be Muslim than Christian, the report claims.

Researchers say migration is among factors helping to increase the Muslim population in some regions, including North America and Europe.

Islam will overcome Christianity to become the most popular religion in the world by 2070 with migration seeing a surge in Europe and America's Muslim population, research shows

The religion's share of the world's population will equal the Christian share - at roughly 32 per cent each - in 53 year's time, according to the Pew Research Center, based in Washington DC

Pew analysis revealed Muslims are the fastest-growing religious group in the world and in 2010 there were 1.6billion in the world - about 23 per cent of the global population.

But the figure is short of the 2.2 billion Christians which made up 31 percent of the population.

The research claims Muslims are having more children than members of other religious groups with each woman having an average of 3.1 offspring compared to 2.3 for all other groups combined.

In 2010 the median age of all Muslims was 23 - seven years younger than non-Muslims.

Pew analysis revealed Muslims are the fastest-growing religious group in the world

The report added: 'While it does not change the global population, migration is helping to increase the Muslim population in some regions, including North America and Europe.'

Some 62 per cent of Muslims live in the Asia-Pacific region with large populations in Indonesia, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Iran and Turkey, Pew researchers said.

In 2050, India is set to take over from Indonesia as the country with the world's largest Muslim population, according to the study.

Last year there were 3.3 million Muslims of all ages in the US - about 1 per cent of the population.

By 2050, the share is predicted to climb to 2.1 per cent.