Premiere: Meek Mill Drops "King" Off Ethika's New 'RGB' Mixtape
Premiere: Meek Mill Drops "King" Off Ethika's New 'RGB' Mixtape
Ethika , the San Clemente, California-based underwear company, has lined up some heavy hitters for its new mixtape (Red, Green and Blue). The 11-song project features the likes of Lil Durk , Dave East , Kid Ink , as well as Meek Mill , who offers up "King." Jahlil Beats and DJ Ill Will also shared their insights in the curation of the project. Meek is firing on all cylinders on "King," a street anthem featuring booming production from C-Sick. It's a performance that should get fans pumped for , which should be coming soon. The mixtape tied to product release displays forward-thinking execution from Ethika, especially in an era where consumer experience is paramount to building brand loyalty. “This project ended up being a lot more than we initially bargained for, but seeing it all come together, it was definitely worth it,” Matt Cook, CEO of Ethika, says. “The music is amazing, the product and designs are some of the best we have made and continuing to creating unique and memorable experiences remains on the forefront of our minds. I want to thank the team at Ethika and all the artists and other people that helped bring this to life.” Bump "King" and peep the cover art and tracklist for Ethika's mixtape below, as well as Meek Mill's own signature Dream Chasers underwear. The project will be available for free download on Ethika's official website . And be sure to keep up with Ethika's latest happenings on Twitter and Instagram .

Ethika, the San Clemente, California-based underwear company, has lined up some heavy hitters for its new mixtape RGB (Red, Green and Blue). The 11-song project features the likes of Lil Durk, Dave East, Kid Ink, as well as Meek Mill, who offers up "King." Jahlil Beats and DJ Ill Will also shared their insights in the curation of the project.

Meek is firing on all cylinders on "King," a street anthem featuring booming production from C-Sick. It's a performance that should get fans pumped for DC 4.5, which should be coming soon.

The mixtape tied to product release displays forward-thinking execution from Ethika, especially in an era where consumer experience is paramount to building brand loyalty.

“This project ended up being a lot more than we initially bargained for, but seeing it all come together, it was definitely worth it,” Matt Cook, CEO of Ethika, says. “The music is amazing, the product and designs are some of the best we have made and continuing to creating unique and memorable experiences remains on the forefront of our minds. I want to thank the team at Ethika and all the artists and other people that helped bring this to life.”

Bump "King" and peep the cover art and tracklist for Ethika's RGB mixtape below, as well as Meek Mill's own signature Dream Chasers underwear. The project will be available for free download on Ethika's official website. And be sure to keep up with Ethika's latest happenings on Twitter and Instagram.