11-Year-Old Monmouth Fan Pens NBA GMs, Asks Them to Draft Her Favorite Player
11-Year-Old Monmouth Fan Pens NBA GMs, Asks Them to Draft Her Favorite Player
@Callmescoop12 @collinstewart30 @_cb43 @micah_seaborn Erica will be spending her 11th birthday with you guys tomorrow night. Beat Iona!! https://t.co/COVPUMXomk After hearing that her favorite player, Monmouth Hawks senior Justin Robinson, may wind up playing overseas once his college career is over, 11-year-old fan Erica Schaeffer took action. She wrote to all 30 NBA teams and asked them to take a look at Robinson. It all started when her dad gave her a heads-up about the reality of the situation. "I talked to her about Deon Jones and other players who are playing overseas," Eric Schaeffer said, per Stephen Edelson of the . ‘"And I told her, 'You know, that's a distinct possibility for Justin, coming from a smaller school,' and that it's just a reality. It might happen." Wanting her favorite player to get an opportunity to play at the next level in the United States, Erica made a case for Robinson to NBA teams, according to Edelson: My dad was telling me that Justin may go overseas, so that made me think that I would try to help Justin stay here because I want to see him play again. And just meeting him and how he’s so nice, I wanted to see him play here and become an NBA player. I just wanted to tell the teams how nice he is as a person and how good he is as a player and how he can change their team. Hey, it never hurts to try. Teams probably get requests (through letters, emails, tweets, etc.) like this from fans frequently. They can be fun and heartwarming requests, but rarely do they factor into an organization's decisions. , the Detroit Pistons did let Erica know that Robinson is on their radar: @Callmescoop12 we thought you'd like to see what Erica just got in the mail from the Detroit Pistons! https://t.co/Gye2ou6gPk For now, Erica must wait to see if Robinson will get a shot with an NBA team this summer. If he doesn't, it won't be due to a lack of effort on her part. [ Twitter, h/t ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

After hearing that her favorite player, Monmouth Hawks senior Justin Robinson, may wind up playing overseas once his college career is over, 11-year-old fan Erica Schaeffer took action.

She wrote to all 30 NBA teams and asked them to take a look at Robinson.

It all started when her dad gave her a heads-up about the reality of the situation.

"I talked to her about Deon Jones and other players who are playing overseas," Eric Schaeffer said, per Stephen Edelson of the Asbury Park Press. ‘"And I told her, 'You know, that's a distinct possibility for Justin, coming from a smaller school,' and that it's just a reality. It might happen."

Wanting her favorite player to get an opportunity to play at the next level in the United States, Erica made a case for Robinson to NBA teams, according to Edelson:

My dad was telling me that Justin may go overseas, so that made me think that I would try to help Justin stay here because I want to see him play again. And just meeting him and how he’s so nice, I wanted to see him play here and become an NBA player. I just wanted to tell the teams how nice he is as a person and how good he is as a player and how he can change their team.

Hey, it never hurts to try.

Teams probably get requests (through letters, emails, tweets, etc.) like this from fans frequently. They can be fun and heartwarming requests, but rarely do they factor into an organization's decisions. However, the Detroit Pistons did let Erica know that Robinson is on their radar:

For now, Erica must wait to see if Robinson will get a shot with an NBA team this summer. If he doesn't, it won't be due to a lack of effort on her part.

[Asbury Park Press, Twitter, h/t Sports Illustrated]