'It's more common than you think': What we need to know about abortion according to experts
'It's more common than you think': What we need to know about abortion according to experts
Abortion is a divisive issue, and a topic that women can feel reluctant being open about. And what surprises gynaecologists most about public perceptions of abortions is the misunderstanding of how common it is. Research recently carried out the US shows that one in three women have an abortion at some point in their lives - and 95 per cent don’t regret it. “Termination of pregnancy is more common than most women think,” Dr Josephine Senior, who is six years into training to specialise in obstetrics and gynaecology, told adding: “but it will always be a difficult topic to talk about.” “It is almost a 'silent secret' which women may only find out about if it is brought up openly with friends and colleagues,” says Dr Anne Henderson, a Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist based at Nuada Medical in Harley Street. “The other issue is that most people are much less judgemental towards women who have had an abortion than might be expected, and there is some evidence that the procedure is much more accepted within society than it has been in the past.”   The UK's own abortion ban, explained in 3 minutes Vanessa Avlontis, the UK's chief nurse at contraception and abortion organisation Marie Stopes, chimes: “Having a mature discussion can only benefit women who face pressures or personal circumstances that make it difficult for them to have a child at a particular time. Such discussion can demystify the process." So, if there isn’t an adequate conversation happening about what the realities of an abortion are like, what would the healthcare professionals want their would-be patients to know? Dr Senior starts with the basics. Firstly, terminations are in one of two ways: medical or surgical. “The medical involves taking one tablet then going home for 48 hours," she says. "In that time women may experience cramps and bleeding. After 48 hours they come back to hospital and have either a single tablet, usually given as a vaginal pessary, or a course of tablets, depending on how many weeks pregnant they are. “In many units, women under nine weeks are given a single tablet and are welcome to go home as long as they have someone with them who knows what is happening and can easily return to hospital if they need to. The surgical termination involves having a general anaesthetic then the cervix is dilated and any pregnancy tissue is removed using suction.”   Woman shares experience of late-term abortion to fight back at Trump Both have similar side effects, she goes on, with the most common being bleeding and cramping pain. Infections in the womb are also common because the cervix is artificially opened during the procedure. Bleeding can last up to three weeks after the procedure, but a woman should visit a doctor if bleeding or pain worsens, or they release a smelly discharge. “Less common problems include the procedure leaving some tissue behind," she adds. "This would present itself as ongoing heavy bleeding and pain usually. There is also a small risk of preterm labour in future pregnancies because we artificially open the cervix and it can become incompetent in the future but this is a small risk, especially for women who have only one termination. Surgical procedures also carry a risk of making a small hole in the wall of the womb. These heal quickly and rarely cause long term problems.” “Whilst bleeding is common, it should not be very heavy," stresses Dr Senior. "If women are soaking through a thick sanitary pad more than once an hour they need to be seen by gynaecology." Health news in pictures               Health news in pictures    Vaping backed as healthier nicotine alternative to cigarettes after latest study   Vaping has been given an emphatic thumbs up by health experts after the first long-term study of its effects in ex-smokers.
After six months, people who switched from real to e-cigarettes had far fewer toxins and cancer-causing substances in their bodies than continual smokers, scientists found   Getty Images     Common method of cooking rice can leave traces of arsenic in food, scientists warn   Millions of people are putting themselves at risk by cooking their rice incorrectly, scientists have warned.
Recent experiments show a common method of cooking rice — simply boiling it in a pan until the water has steamed out — can expose those who eat it to traces of the poison arsenic, which contaminates rice while it is growing as a result of industrial toxins and pesticides   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Contraceptive gel that creates ‘reversible vasectomy’ shown to be effective in monkeys   An injectable contraceptive gel that acts as a ‘reversible vasectomy’ is a step closer to being offered to men following successful trials on monkeys.
Vasalgel is injected into the vas deferens, the small duct between the testicles and the urethra. It has so far been found to prevent 100 per cent of conceptions   Vasalgel     Shift work and heavy lifting may reduce women’s fertility, study finds   Women who work at night or do irregular shifts may experience a decline in fertility, a new study has found.
Shift and night workers had fewer eggs capable of developing into healthy embryos than those who work regular daytime hours, according to researchers at Harvard University   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Breakfast cereals targeted at children contain 'steadily high' sugar levels since 1992 despite producer claims   A major pressure group has issued a fresh warning about perilously high amounts of sugar in breakfast cereals, specifically those designed for children, and has said that levels have barely been cut at all in the last two and a half decades   Getty Images     Fight against pancreatic cancer takes ‘monumental leap forward’   Scientists have made a “monumental leap forward” in the treatment of pancreatic cancer after discovering using two drugs together dramatically improved patients’ chances of living more than five years after diagnosis.   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Japanese government tells people to stop overworking   The Japanese government has announced measures to limit the amount of overtime employees can do – in an attempt to stop people literally working themselves to death.

A fifth of Japan’s workforce are at risk of death by overwork, known as karoshi, as they work more than 80 hours of overtime each month, according to a government survey.   Getty Images     Over-cooked potatoes and burnt toast ‘could cause cancer’   The Food Standards Agency (FSA) has issued a public warning over the risks of acrylamide - a chemical compound that forms in some foods when they are cooked at high temperatures (above 120C).   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Cervical cancer screening attendance hits 19 year low   Cervical screening tests are a vital method of preventing cancer through the detection and treatment of abnormalities in the cervix, but new research shows that the number of women using this service has dropped to a 19 year low.   Getty Images/iStockphoto     High blood pressure may protect over 80s from dementia   The ConversationIt is well known that high blood pressure is a risk factor for dementia, so the results of a new study from the University of California, Irvine, are quite surprising. The researchers found that people who developed high blood pressure between the ages of 80-89 are less likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease (the most common form of dementia) over the next three years than people of the same age with normal blood pressure.   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Most child antidepressants are ineffective and can lead to suicidal thoughts   The majority of antidepressants are ineffective and may be unsafe, for children and teenager with major depression, experts have warned. In what is the most comprehensive comparison of 14 commonly prescribed antidepressant drugs to date, researchers found that only one brand was more effective at relieving symptoms of depression than a placebo. Another popular drug, venlafaxine, was shown increase the risk users engaging in suicidal thoughts and attempts at suicide   Getty     'Universal cancer vaccine’ breakthrough claimed by experts   Scientists have taken a “very positive step” towards creating a universal vaccine against cancer that makes the body’s immune system attack tumours as if they were a virus, experts have said. Writing in Nature, an international team of researchers described how they had taken pieces of cancer’s genetic RNA code, put them into tiny nanoparticles of fat and then injected the mixture into the bloodstreams of three patients in the advanced stages of the disease. The patients' immune systems responded by producing "killer" T-cells designed to attack cancer. The vaccine was also found to be effective in fighting “aggressively growing” tumours in mice, according to researchers, who were led by Professor Ugur Sahin from Johannes Gutenberg University in Germany   Rex     Green tea could be used to treat brain issues caused by Down’s Syndrome   A compound found in green tea could improve the cognitive abilities of those with Down’s syndrome, a team of scientists has discovered. Researchers found epigallocatechin gallate – which is especially present in green tea but can also be found in white and black teas – combined with cognitive stimulation, improved visual memory and led to more adaptive behaviour. Dr Rafael de la Torre, who led the year-long clinical trial along with Dr Mara Dierrssen, said: “The results suggest that individuals who received treatment with the green tea compound, together with the cognitive stimulation protocol, had better scores in their cognitive capacities”      Taking antidepressants in pregnancy ‘could double the risk of autism in toddlers’   Taking antidepressants during pregnancy could almost double the risk of a child being diagnosed with autism in the first years of life, a major study of nearly 150,000 pregnancies has suggested. Researchers have found a link between women in the later stages of pregnancy who were prescribed one of the most common types of antidepressant drugs, and autism diagnosed in children under seven years of age      Warning over Calpol   Parents have been warned that giving children paracetamol-based medicines such as Calpol and Disprol too often could lead to serious health issues later in life. Leading paediatrician and professor of general paediatrics at University College London, Alastair Sutcliffe, said parents were overusing paracetamol to treat mild fevers. As a result, the risk of developing asthma, as well as kidney, heart and liver damage is heightened      Connections between brain cells destroyed in early stages of Alzheimer’s disease   Scientists have pinpointed how connections in the brain are destroyed in the early stages of Alzheimer’s disease, in a study which it is hoped will help in the development of treatments for the debilitating condition. At the early stages of the development of Alzheimer’s disease the synapses – which connect the neurons in the brain – are destroyed, according to researchers at the University of New South Wales, Australia. The synapses are vital for brain function, particularly learning and forming memories      A prosthetic hand that lets people actually feel through   The technology lets paralysed people feel actual sensations when touching objects — including light taps on the mechanical finger — and could be a huge breakthrough for prosthetics, according to its makers. The tool was used to let a 28-year-old man who has been paralysed for more than a decade. While prosthetics have previously been able to be controlled directly from the brain, it is the first time that signals have been successfully sent the other way      Aspirin could help boost therapies that fight cancer   The latest therapies that fight cancer could work better when combined with aspirin, research has suggested. Scientists from the Francis Crick Institute in London say the anti-inflammatory pain killer suppresses a cancer molecule that allows tumours to evade the body’s immune defences.
Laboratory tests have shown that skin, breast and bowel cancer cells often generate large amounts of this molecule, called prostaglandin E2 (PGE2).
But Aspirin is one of a family of drugs that sends messages to the brain to block production of PGE2 and this means cancer cells can be attacked by the body’s natural defences      Potatoes reduce risk of stomach cancer   Scientists have found people who eat large amounts of white vegetables were a third less likely to contract stomach cancer. The study, undertaken by Chinese scientists at Zhejiang University, found eating cauliflower, potatoes and onions reduces the chance of contracting stomach cancer but that beer, spirits, salt and preserved foods increased a person’s risk of the cancer   However, she is also surprised by how little understood the different reasons for terminations are, and how women from all socioeconomic backgrounds seek such procedures out. Financial hardship, the relationship with the father, and mental health issues can all play a role, as well as the health of the baby. Recalling the case of a woman who had undergone IVF for her first pregnancy, Dr Senior said: "Half way through that pregnancy her husband left her and she was living in a studio with her one year old son. She had intercourse with a new man who never contacted her again. She found herself pregnant spontaneously with no money and no support and decided to terminate. This was genuinely the most difficult thing she'd ever decided to do but it was the right thing for her and her son." Dr Henderson, highlights the psychological effects of terminations, which are less common than the physical. “A significant minority of women will nonetheless experience psychological upset such as mood lability. This can include tearfulness, mood swings, and unpredictability. Some women experience headaches due to the withdrawal of the pregnancy hormone, and these usually settle fairly soon after the procedure."   Woman who had six miscarriages marks pregnancy with rainbow photoshoot She stresses that while women can feel ill-informed about abortions until they need to undergo one, friends and loved ones can also feel in the day. But simply getting in touch with a woman and showing support in the run up to and following a termination is an important gesture. "Checking how they are feeling without prompting can be helpful particularly if they haven’t heard from the person for some time," she says. "Being non-judgemental is also key to minimise any feelings of blame or guilt." More about: abortion Pregnancy well-being Health women Comments

Abortion is a divisive issue, and a topic that women can feel reluctant being open about.

And what surprises gynaecologists most about public perceptions of abortions is the misunderstanding of how common it is. Research recently carried out the US shows that one in three women have an abortion at some point in their lives - and 95 per cent don’t regret it.

“Termination of pregnancy is more common than most women think,” Dr Josephine Senior, who is six years into training to specialise in obstetrics and gynaecology, told The Independent, adding: “but it will always be a difficult topic to talk about.”

“It is almost a 'silent secret' which women may only find out about if it is brought up openly with friends and colleagues,” says Dr Anne Henderson, a Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist based at Nuada Medical in Harley Street. “The other issue is that most people are much less judgemental towards women who have had an abortion than might be expected, and there is some evidence that the procedure is much more accepted within society than it has been in the past.”

Vanessa Avlontis, the UK's chief nurse at contraception and abortion organisation Marie Stopes, chimes: “Having a mature discussion can only benefit women who face pressures or personal circumstances that make it difficult for them to have a child at a particular time. Such discussion can demystify the process."

So, if there isn’t an adequate conversation happening about what the realities of an abortion are like, what would the healthcare professionals want their would-be patients to know?

Dr Senior starts with the basics. Firstly, terminations are in one of two ways: medical or surgical. “The medical involves taking one tablet then going home for 48 hours," she says. "In that time women may experience cramps and bleeding. After 48 hours they come back to hospital and have either a single tablet, usually given as a vaginal pessary, or a course of tablets, depending on how many weeks pregnant they are.

“In many units, women under nine weeks are given a single tablet and are welcome to go home as long as they have someone with them who knows what is happening and can easily return to hospital if they need to. The surgical termination involves having a general anaesthetic then the cervix is dilated and any pregnancy tissue is removed using suction.”

Both have similar side effects, she goes on, with the most common being bleeding and cramping pain. Infections in the womb are also common because the cervix is artificially opened during the procedure.

Bleeding can last up to three weeks after the procedure, but a woman should visit a doctor if bleeding or pain worsens, or they release a smelly discharge.

“Less common problems include the procedure leaving some tissue behind," she adds. "This would present itself as ongoing heavy bleeding and pain usually. There is also a small risk of preterm labour in future pregnancies because we artificially open the cervix and it can become incompetent in the future but this is a small risk, especially for women who have only one termination. Surgical procedures also carry a risk of making a small hole in the wall of the womb. These heal quickly and rarely cause long term problems.”

“Whilst bleeding is common, it should not be very heavy," stresses Dr Senior. "If women are soaking through a thick sanitary pad more than once an hour they need to be seen by gynaecology."

Health news in pictures







19 show all Health news in pictures



































1/19 Vaping backed as healthier nicotine alternative to cigarettes after latest study Vaping has been given an emphatic thumbs up by health experts after the first long-term study of its effects in ex-smokers. After six months, people who switched from real to e-cigarettes had far fewer toxins and cancer-causing substances in their bodies than continual smokers, scientists found Getty Images

2/19 Common method of cooking rice can leave traces of arsenic in food, scientists warn Millions of people are putting themselves at risk by cooking their rice incorrectly, scientists have warned. Recent experiments show a common method of cooking rice — simply boiling it in a pan until the water has steamed out — can expose those who eat it to traces of the poison arsenic, which contaminates rice while it is growing as a result of industrial toxins and pesticides Getty Images/iStockphoto

3/19 Contraceptive gel that creates ‘reversible vasectomy’ shown to be effective in monkeys An injectable contraceptive gel that acts as a ‘reversible vasectomy’ is a step closer to being offered to men following successful trials on monkeys. Vasalgel is injected into the vas deferens, the small duct between the testicles and the urethra. It has so far been found to prevent 100 per cent of conceptions Vasalgel

4/19 Shift work and heavy lifting may reduce women’s fertility, study finds Women who work at night or do irregular shifts may experience a decline in fertility, a new study has found. Shift and night workers had fewer eggs capable of developing into healthy embryos than those who work regular daytime hours, according to researchers at Harvard University Getty Images/iStockphoto

5/19 Breakfast cereals targeted at children contain 'steadily high' sugar levels since 1992 despite producer claims A major pressure group has issued a fresh warning about perilously high amounts of sugar in breakfast cereals, specifically those designed for children, and has said that levels have barely been cut at all in the last two and a half decades Getty Images

6/19 Fight against pancreatic cancer takes ‘monumental leap forward’ Scientists have made a “monumental leap forward” in the treatment of pancreatic cancer after discovering using two drugs together dramatically improved patients’ chances of living more than five years after diagnosis. Getty Images/iStockphoto

7/19 Japanese government tells people to stop overworking The Japanese government has announced measures to limit the amount of overtime employees can do – in an attempt to stop people literally working themselves to death. A fifth of Japan’s workforce are at risk of death by overwork, known as karoshi, as they work more than 80 hours of overtime each month, according to a government survey. Getty Images

8/19 Over-cooked potatoes and burnt toast ‘could cause cancer’ The Food Standards Agency (FSA) has issued a public warning over the risks of acrylamide - a chemical compound that forms in some foods when they are cooked at high temperatures (above 120C). Getty Images/iStockphoto

9/19 Cervical cancer screening attendance hits 19 year low Cervical screening tests are a vital method of preventing cancer through the detection and treatment of abnormalities in the cervix, but new research shows that the number of women using this service has dropped to a 19 year low. Getty Images/iStockphoto

10/19 High blood pressure may protect over 80s from dementia The ConversationIt is well known that high blood pressure is a risk factor for dementia, so the results of a new study from the University of California, Irvine, are quite surprising. The researchers found that people who developed high blood pressure between the ages of 80-89 are less likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease (the most common form of dementia) over the next three years than people of the same age with normal blood pressure. Getty Images/iStockphoto

11/19 Most child antidepressants are ineffective and can lead to suicidal thoughts The majority of antidepressants are ineffective and may be unsafe, for children and teenager with major depression, experts have warned. In what is the most comprehensive comparison of 14 commonly prescribed antidepressant drugs to date, researchers found that only one brand was more effective at relieving symptoms of depression than a placebo. Another popular drug, venlafaxine, was shown increase the risk users engaging in suicidal thoughts and attempts at suicide Getty

12/19 'Universal cancer vaccine’ breakthrough claimed by experts Scientists have taken a “very positive step” towards creating a universal vaccine against cancer that makes the body’s immune system attack tumours as if they were a virus, experts have said. Writing in Nature, an international team of researchers described how they had taken pieces of cancer’s genetic RNA code, put them into tiny nanoparticles of fat and then injected the mixture into the bloodstreams of three patients in the advanced stages of the disease. The patients' immune systems responded by producing "killer" T-cells designed to attack cancer. The vaccine was also found to be effective in fighting “aggressively growing” tumours in mice, according to researchers, who were led by Professor Ugur Sahin from Johannes Gutenberg University in Germany Rex

13/19 Green tea could be used to treat brain issues caused by Down’s Syndrome A compound found in green tea could improve the cognitive abilities of those with Down’s syndrome, a team of scientists has discovered. Researchers found epigallocatechin gallate – which is especially present in green tea but can also be found in white and black teas – combined with cognitive stimulation, improved visual memory and led to more adaptive behaviour. Dr Rafael de la Torre, who led the year-long clinical trial along with Dr Mara Dierrssen, said: “The results suggest that individuals who received treatment with the green tea compound, together with the cognitive stimulation protocol, had better scores in their cognitive capacities”

14/19 Taking antidepressants in pregnancy ‘could double the risk of autism in toddlers’ Taking antidepressants during pregnancy could almost double the risk of a child being diagnosed with autism in the first years of life, a major study of nearly 150,000 pregnancies has suggested. Researchers have found a link between women in the later stages of pregnancy who were prescribed one of the most common types of antidepressant drugs, and autism diagnosed in children under seven years of age

15/19 Warning over Calpol Parents have been warned that giving children paracetamol-based medicines such as Calpol and Disprol too often could lead to serious health issues later in life. Leading paediatrician and professor of general paediatrics at University College London, Alastair Sutcliffe, said parents were overusing paracetamol to treat mild fevers. As a result, the risk of developing asthma, as well as kidney, heart and liver damage is heightened

16/19 Connections between brain cells destroyed in early stages of Alzheimer’s disease Scientists have pinpointed how connections in the brain are destroyed in the early stages of Alzheimer’s disease, in a study which it is hoped will help in the development of treatments for the debilitating condition. At the early stages of the development of Alzheimer’s disease the synapses – which connect the neurons in the brain – are destroyed, according to researchers at the University of New South Wales, Australia. The synapses are vital for brain function, particularly learning and forming memories

17/19 A prosthetic hand that lets people actually feel through The technology lets paralysed people feel actual sensations when touching objects — including light taps on the mechanical finger — and could be a huge breakthrough for prosthetics, according to its makers. The tool was used to let a 28-year-old man who has been paralysed for more than a decade. While prosthetics have previously been able to be controlled directly from the brain, it is the first time that signals have been successfully sent the other way

18/19 Aspirin could help boost therapies that fight cancer The latest therapies that fight cancer could work better when combined with aspirin, research has suggested. Scientists from the Francis Crick Institute in London say the anti-inflammatory pain killer suppresses a cancer molecule that allows tumours to evade the body’s immune defences. Laboratory tests have shown that skin, breast and bowel cancer cells often generate large amounts of this molecule, called prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). But Aspirin is one of a family of drugs that sends messages to the brain to block production of PGE2 and this means cancer cells can be attacked by the body’s natural defences

19/19 Potatoes reduce risk of stomach cancer Scientists have found people who eat large amounts of white vegetables were a third less likely to contract stomach cancer. The study, undertaken by Chinese scientists at Zhejiang University, found eating cauliflower, potatoes and onions reduces the chance of contracting stomach cancer but that beer, spirits, salt and preserved foods increased a person’s risk of the cancer

However, she is also surprised by how little understood the different reasons for terminations are, and how women from all socioeconomic backgrounds seek such procedures out. Financial hardship, the relationship with the father, and mental health issues can all play a role, as well as the health of the baby.

Recalling the case of a woman who had undergone IVF for her first pregnancy, Dr Senior said: "Half way through that pregnancy her husband left her and she was living in a studio with her one year old son. She had intercourse with a new man who never contacted her again. She found herself pregnant spontaneously with no money and no support and decided to terminate. This was genuinely the most difficult thing she'd ever decided to do but it was the right thing for her and her son."

Dr Henderson, highlights the psychological effects of terminations, which are less common than the physical.

“A significant minority of women will nonetheless experience psychological upset such as mood lability. This can include tearfulness, mood swings, and unpredictability. Some women experience headaches due to the withdrawal of the pregnancy hormone, and these usually settle fairly soon after the procedure."

She stresses that while women can feel ill-informed about abortions until they need to undergo one, friends and loved ones can also feel in the day. But simply getting in touch with a woman and showing support in the run up to and following a termination is an important gesture.

“Practical support such as ensuring medical reviews if there any evidence of concerning symptoms can be helpful, as some women are too embarrassed or ashamed to seek help following an abortion, even when they know something is wrong.

"Checking how they are feeling without prompting can be helpful particularly if they haven’t heard from the person for some time," she says. "Being non-judgemental is also key to minimise any feelings of blame or guilt."