After Randeep Hooda, Virender Sehwag And Yogeswar Dutt Also Clarify Their Statements About Gurmehar Kaur
After Randeep Hooda, Sehwag & Yogeswar Also Clarify Their Statements About Gurmehar Kaur
After Randeep Hooda, Virender Sehwag And Yogeswar Dutt Also Clarify Their Statements About Gurmehar Kaur Days after his tweet kicked up a storm online, former cricketer Virender Sehwag has clarified that he had no intention to bully Gurmehar Kaur, the DU student who was protesting against the ABVP violence in Ramjas College. In a series of tweets the fiery opening batsman said his tweet attempt to be facetious rather than one to bully anyone. My tweet was an attempt to be facetious rather than one to bully anyone over their opinion. Agreement or disagreement wasn't even a factor. She has a right to express her views and anyone who threatens her with violence or rape is the lowest form of life. Everyone has a right to express their views without being bullied or threatened. Gurmehar Kaur or the Phogat sisters. Olympion Yogeswar Datt who had also tweeted against Gurmehar said he wasn't against her and he "just have a different view". I am not against #GurmeharKaur , I respect her, she is the daughter of a Shaheed, I just have a different view: Yogeshwar Dutt pic.twitter.com/EO0Hp8haUq The two sportsmen had come under fire from many including Javed Akhtar who called the duo as "hardly literate". The clarifications come days after actor Randeep Hooda , who was also caught up in the entire episode issued a clarification on his tweet.

Days after his tweet kicked up a storm online, former cricketer Virender Sehwag has clarified that he had no intention to bully Gurmehar Kaur, the DU student who was protesting against the ABVP violence in Ramjas College.

In a series of tweets the fiery opening batsman said his tweet attempt to be facetious rather than one to bully anyone.

My tweet was an attempt to be facetious rather than one to bully anyone over their opinion. Agreement or disagreement wasn't even a factor. — Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) March 1, 2017

She has a right to express her views and anyone who threatens her with violence or rape is the lowest form of life. — Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) March 1, 2017

Everyone has a right to express their views without being bullied or threatened. Gurmehar Kaur or the Phogat sisters. — Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) March 1, 2017

Olympion Yogeswar Datt who had also tweeted against Gurmehar said he wasn't against her and he "just have a different view".

I am not against #GurmeharKaur , I respect her, she is the daughter of a Shaheed, I just have a different view: Yogeshwar Dutt pic.twitter.com/EO0Hp8haUq — ANI (@ANI_news) March 1, 2017

The two sportsmen had come under fire from many including Javed Akhtar who called the duo as "hardly literate".

The clarifications come days after actor Randeep Hooda, who was also caught up in the entire episode issued a clarification on his tweet.

Don't Miss 3.4 K SHARES 25.9 K SHARES 37.9 K SHARES 42.4 K SHARES