Facebook bans nude Women Lovers painting by acclaimed artist
Facebook bans nude Women Lovers painting by acclaimed artist 
n Australian auction house has blasted Facebook for ‘censoring’ a nude painting by acclaimed artist Charles Blackman. Melbourne auctioneer Mossgreen says Facebook stopped them from advertising a video featuring Blackman’s oil painting Women Lovers of two nude figures on a bed next to a black cat. The auction house said it wanted to promote the video ahead of an upcoming auction on March 7, but was told it violated guidelines as it was advertising “adult products or services”. ossgreen chief executive Paul Summer told the BBC it was like “going back to the 1950s”. “This is a very beautiful image that is not overtly sexual in any shape or form,” he said. “It’s like going back to the 1950s. It’s ridiculous to censor this sort of thing.” He added: “Nobody said a single thing until Facebook suddenly decided it was going to offend somebody. “I don’t know who they’re protecting because I have two teenage daughters myself and if I said to them that this painting has been banned I think they would have laughed at me.” ossgreen said it was told by Facebook: “The advert wasn’t boosted because it violates ad guidelines by advertising adult products or services including toys, videos or sexualising enhancement products.” “Such ads lead to negative user sentiment and we have zero tolerance towards such advertisements.” Art collector Sylvia Lowenstein revealed in the video: “I have had this painting over our bed for 20 years, I particularly love it. I like the subject matter, it’s interesting, and Charles Blackman had a great affinity with women. “Sometimes you cannot fully explain why you like something, but it speaks to me.” Facebook spokesperson said: “We have reviewed the ad again and have approved it.”

Mossgreen chief executive Paul Summer told the BBC it was like “going back to the 1950s”.

“This is a very beautiful image that is not overtly sexual in any shape or form,” he said.

“It’s like going back to the 1950s. It’s ridiculous to censor this sort of thing.”

He added: “Nobody said a single thing until Facebook suddenly decided it was going to offend somebody.

“I don’t know who they’re protecting because I have two teenage daughters myself and if I said to them that this painting has been banned I think they would have laughed at me.”