Vince Carter ejected for throwing elbow at Devin Booker’s head

The NBA’s oldest player had quite the crotchety moment Tuesday. As a result, Vince Carter was ejected from a game his Grizzlies ended up winning against the Suns. Carter, 40, threw an elbow at Phoenix’s Devin Booker on a first-quarter drive to the rim, sending a player half his age to the floor and nearly sparking a brawl at Memphis’s FedExForum. Suns center Alex Len received a technical for shoving Carter, while the latter got two techs and an immediate trip back to the locker room.   As Carter was driving around Booker, the Suns shooting guard made contact with his chest. Carter tried hard to sell that contact but didn’t get a call, which could have caused him to swing at Booker in frustration. For his part, Booker may have performed a bit of a flop, but Carter clearly hit him, and Booker may have been fortunate that his right arm got between Carter’s elbow and his face. carter uppercut pic.twitter.com/ROzCW459bq — LØØPSØØP (@vineydelnegro) March 1, 2017 Some recent history may have contributed to the bad blood on display Tuesday. In a game between the teams earlier this month in Memphis, Booker engaged in some trash talking with Phoenix’s Troy Daniels, and an ensuing scuffle resulted in the ejections of the Suns’ Marquese Chriss and Tyler Ulis. “We’ll see them again,” Booker said after that contest. Suns & Grizzlies scrap during garbage time. Tyler Ulis wasn't backing down… pic.twitter.com/8t0wnQbHyw — Ben Golliver (@BenGolliver) February 9, 2017 In January, Booker shoved Grizzlies forward Zach Randolph from behind in frustration over not getting a foul call. That led to a moment of sportsmanship by Randolph, but tensions between the two squads have apparently ratcheted up since then. “Fortunately Vince is very rich,” Grizzlies Coach David Fizdale joked after Tuesday’s game, alluding to the fine Carter will likely get from the NBA. The elbow may have given his team a spark, given that it was down 18-11 at the time and went on to rout the Suns, 130-112 . The outburst included a 38-point third quarter and represented Memphis’s highest score this season.   Meanwhile, Booker scored just nine points, on 3-of-11 shooting, failing to reach double digits for the first time since late December. The second-year player is second to Eric Bledsoe, another Kentucky product, on the Suns with a 21.1 scoring average. In his 19th NBA season, Carter is averaging 8.1 points in 24.1 minutes and has drawn praise for adapting to being a role player after having been one of the league’s biggest stars in the previous decade. Carter still occasionally displays impressive athleticism , even if he’s no longer known as “half man, half amazing.” He didn’t last one quarter Tuesday, but he did display plenty of elbow grease in showing a young whippersnapper how feisty a 40-year-old can be.



Vince Carter (15) is shown talking with an official during a game in November. (Lynne Sladky/Associated Press)

The NBA’s oldest player had quite the crotchety moment Tuesday. As a result, Vince Carter was ejected from a game his Grizzlies ended up winning against the Suns.

Carter, 40, threw an elbow at Phoenix’s Devin Booker on a first-quarter drive to the rim, sending a player half his age to the floor and nearly sparking a brawl at Memphis’s FedExForum. Suns center Alex Len received a technical for shoving Carter, while the latter got two techs and an immediate trip back to the locker room.

[Amar’e Stoudemire gives homophobic response to question about having gay teammate]

As Carter was driving around Booker, the Suns shooting guard made contact with his chest. Carter tried hard to sell that contact but didn’t get a call, which could have caused him to swing at Booker in frustration. For his part, Booker may have performed a bit of a flop, but Carter clearly hit him, and Booker may have been fortunate that his right arm got between Carter’s elbow and his face.

Some recent history may have contributed to the bad blood on display Tuesday. In a game between the teams earlier this month in Memphis, Booker engaged in some trash talking with Phoenix’s Troy Daniels, and an ensuing scuffle resulted in the ejections of the Suns’ Marquese Chriss and Tyler Ulis. “We’ll see them again,” Booker said after that contest.

Suns & Grizzlies scrap during garbage time. Tyler Ulis wasn't backing down… pic.twitter.com/8t0wnQbHyw — Ben Golliver (@BenGolliver) February 9, 2017

In January, Booker shoved Grizzlies forward Zach Randolph from behind in frustration over not getting a foul call. That led to a moment of sportsmanship by Randolph, but tensions between the two squads have apparently ratcheted up since then.

“Fortunately Vince is very rich,” Grizzlies Coach David Fizdale joked after Tuesday’s game, alluding to the fine Carter will likely get from the NBA. The elbow may have given his team a spark, given that it was down 18-11 at the time and went on to rout the Suns, 130-112. The outburst included a 38-point third quarter and represented Memphis’s highest score this season.

[Warriors’ Kevin Durant limps to locker room with knee injury, does not return]

Meanwhile, Booker scored just nine points, on 3-of-11 shooting, failing to reach double digits for the first time since late December. The second-year player is second to Eric Bledsoe, another Kentucky product, on the Suns with a 21.1 scoring average.

In his 19th NBA season, Carter is averaging 8.1 points in 24.1 minutes and has drawn praise for adapting to being a role player after having been one of the league’s biggest stars in the previous decade. Carter still occasionally displays impressive athleticism, even if he’s no longer known as “half man, half amazing.” He didn’t last one quarter Tuesday, but he did display plenty of elbow grease in showing a young whippersnapper how feisty a 40-year-old can be.