Donald Trump says 'buy American' during Congress address while Ivanka wears $1868 dress by French designer
Donald Trump says 'buy American' during Congress address while Ivanka wears $1868 dress by French designer
Donald Trump might have used his first congress address to tout his mantra of “buy American and hire American” but this did not stop his daughter wearing an exorbitant French designer dress to the event. Ivanka Trump , the President’s eldest daughter who is said to be his “favourite” child, wore a fuchsia dress by French designer Roland Mouret which cost $1868 (£1772) to the prestigious event which saw her father promise a “new chapter of American greatness” and launch barbed attacks on illegal immigrants. A representative for the acclaimed designer, Roland Mouret, told the Rawlings Dress which was worn by the first daughter was produced in the UK. Ms Trump shared a photo of herself and Jared Kushner, her husband who is a senior advisor to the President, before the pair set off for the congress speech. “Getting ready to leave The White House with @realdonaldtrump as he prepares to address Congress #JointSession,” Ms Trump, a former executive of the Trump Organisation, wrote. Ms Trump’s choice of dress sparked some controversy on Twitter, with people criticising her for not wearing an American brand and for wearing a “cocktail dress” to the formal affair. Others argued it was unfair the first daughter was able to flaunt her arms without controversy whereas former first lady Michelle Obama was criticised for doing the same. "Dad said Buy American so Ivanka wore a French designer's dress #hypocrisy," said one person on Twitter. "Remember all that crap about Michelle Obama showing her arms and if it was appropriate? Well, behold Ivanka and her shoulders," added another. Getting ready to leave The White House with @realdonaldtrump as he prepares to address Congress #JointSession  pic.twitter.com/vlR1wPHGkK The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images  Giving his first address to senators and members of congress, the billionaire property developer claimed he would ask congress to approve legislation that “produces a $1 trillion investment in the infrastructure of the US”. Mr Trump said it would be financed through both public and private capital creating millions of new jobs, adding: “This effort will be guided by two core principles: Buy American and Hire American.” This is by no means the first time Ms Trump has prompted controversy for her choice of dress. In January, she came under fire for sharing a photo of her “date night” with Mr Kushner while humanitarian chaos erupted in airports around the world in the wake of her father’s hard-line immigration ban. Critics accused her of “extreme insensitivity” and labelled the photo “wildly offensive”, “inappropriate” and “tone deaf”. What’s more, a number of memes surfaced juxtaposing the glamorous photo of her silver metallic dress with an image of a refugee in a foil survival bag.   Ivanka Trump sparks outrage for posting 'inappropriate' photo Mr Trump’s daughter's penchant for fashion has frequently made her the centre of controversy. In November, her jewellery company used an interview appearance to promote a $10,800 diamond bracelet from her fashion line. The company later apologised for promoting the jewellery. Ms Trump’s brand, which she has stepped down from, has taken a hit since increasing numbers of Trump critics have boycotted her clothing and accessories line. A recent report by the said her brand’s sales fell by nearly a third in the past financial year, with a sharp decline in the weeks running up to Mr Trump’s win. The Grab Your Wallet boycott campaign (a reference to the President’s leaked sexually aggressive 2005 “pussy-grabbing” comments)  emerged last autumn and urges consumers to boycott shops which sell products affiliated with Mr Trump’s family businesses. Roland Mouret declined to comment on the matter to The Independent. More about: Donald Trump Ivanka Trump Comments

Donald Trump might have used his first congress address to tout his mantra of “buy American and hire American” but this did not stop his daughter wearing an exorbitant French designer dress to the event.

Ivanka Trump, the President’s eldest daughter who is said to be his “favourite” child, wore a fuchsia dress by French designer Roland Mouret which cost $1868 (£1772) to the prestigious event which saw her father promise a “new chapter of American greatness” and launch barbed attacks on illegal immigrants.

A representative for the acclaimed designer, Roland Mouret, told The Independent the Rawlings Dress which was worn by the first daughter was produced in the UK.

Ms Trump shared a photo of herself and Jared Kushner, her husband who is a senior advisor to the President, before the pair set off for the congress speech.

“Getting ready to leave The White House with @realdonaldtrump as he prepares to address Congress #JointSession,” Ms Trump, a former executive of the Trump Organisation, wrote.

Ms Trump’s choice of dress sparked some controversy on Twitter, with people criticising her for not wearing an American brand and for wearing a “cocktail dress” to the formal affair. Others argued it was unfair the first daughter was able to flaunt her arms without controversy whereas former first lady Michelle Obama was criticised for doing the same.

"Dad said Buy American so Ivanka wore a French designer's dress #hypocrisy," said one person on Twitter.

"Remember all that crap about Michelle Obama showing her arms and if it was appropriate? Well, behold Ivanka and her shoulders," added another.

Getting ready to leave The White House with @realdonaldtrump as he prepares to address Congress #JointSession pic.twitter.com/vlR1wPHGkK — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) March 1, 2017

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







8 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued













1/8 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

2/8 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

3/8 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

4/8 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

5/8 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

6/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

7/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

8/8 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

Giving his first address to senators and members of congress, the billionaire property developer claimed he would ask congress to approve legislation that “produces a $1 trillion investment in the infrastructure of the US”.

Mr Trump said it would be financed through both public and private capital creating millions of new jobs, adding: “This effort will be guided by two core principles: Buy American and Hire American.”

This is by no means the first time Ms Trump has prompted controversy for her choice of dress. In January, she came under fire for sharing a photo of her “date night” with Mr Kushner while humanitarian chaos erupted in airports around the world in the wake of her father’s hard-line immigration ban. Critics accused her of “extreme insensitivity” and labelled the photo “wildly offensive”, “inappropriate” and “tone deaf”.

What’s more, a number of memes surfaced juxtaposing the glamorous photo of her silver metallic dress with an image of a refugee in a foil survival bag.

Mr Trump’s daughter's penchant for fashion has frequently made her the centre of controversy. In November, her jewellery company used an interview appearance to promote a $10,800 diamond bracelet from her fashion line. The company later apologised for promoting the jewellery.

Ms Trump’s brand, which she has stepped down from, has taken a hit since increasing numbers of Trump critics have boycotted her clothing and accessories line. A recent report by the Wall Street Journal said her brand’s sales fell by nearly a third in the past financial year, with a sharp decline in the weeks running up to Mr Trump’s win.

The Grab Your Wallet boycott campaign (a reference to the President’s leaked sexually aggressive 2005 “pussy-grabbing” comments) emerged last autumn and urges consumers to boycott shops which sell products affiliated with Mr Trump’s family businesses.

Roland Mouret declined to comment on the matter to The Independent.