Metal fetus proves that Rock 'n' Roll isn't dead
Metal fetus proves that Rock 'n' Roll isn't dead
Some babies are just born metal. While most ultrasounds look can like an unrecognizable blob of black and white, parents in Utah got a special surprise when an ultrasound of their baby showed it really loved Rock 'n' Roll. SEE ALSO: The ridiculous baby monitor that makes parenting even scarier than it already is Parents Makelle and Jared Ahlin of Santaquin, Utah, are expecting their third child, and while getting an ultrasound they noticed something a little funny. With both head and hand visible, their baby was spotted showing off the sign of the horns. “She kind of went passed it, and I was just like, ‘Hey, go back, I need that picture!'” Jared Ahlin told Fox 13 . The couple insists that the photo isn't altered in any way, and shared the photo to Facebook, maybe to prove to the world that rock isn't dead. "Well it's official our kids are the coolest even before they enter the world," Makelle wrote on Facebook . [h/t: ] BONUS: Here's another way to bury your pet — grow it into a tree

Some babies are just born metal.

While most ultrasounds look can like an unrecognizable blob of black and white, parents in Utah got a special surprise when an ultrasound of their baby showed it really loved Rock 'n' Roll.

SEE ALSO: The ridiculous baby monitor that makes parenting even scarier than it already is

Parents Makelle and Jared Ahlin of Santaquin, Utah, are expecting their third child, and while getting an ultrasound they noticed something a little funny. With both head and hand visible, their baby was spotted showing off the sign of the horns.

“She kind of went passed it, and I was just like, ‘Hey, go back, I need that picture!'” Jared Ahlin told Fox 13.

The couple insists that the photo isn't altered in any way, and shared the photo to Facebook, maybe to prove to the world that rock isn't dead.

"Well it's official our kids are the coolest even before they enter the world," Makelle wrote on Facebook.

[h/t:UPI]