Could 2020 Bring An Epic Battle Between Trump And Oprah?
Could 2020 Bring An Epic Battle Between Trump And Oprah?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Mark Joyella       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Oprah Winfrey speaks last July in New Orleans. (Photo by Paras Griffin/Getty Images for 2016 Essence Festival) She always said she'd never run for president. Then Donald Trump ran--and won. Now Oprah Winfrey admits she's given the idea of using her massive media power to shatter that "highest and hardest glass ceiling" that Hillary Clinton couldn't quite crack. "I thought, 'Oh gee I don't have the experience," Winfrey said in an interview on , which launched this week on Bloomberg Television. "I don't know enough. And now I'm thinking, 'Oh? Oh!'" Oprah being Oprah, she remains in a media league beyond most mere mortals--even The Donald. That means her decision to say simply "oh" is more than enough to get people buzzing, as they did immediately on Twitter: Going to be awkward when Trump complains about how cable news is obsessively covering Oprah's rallies in 2019. — Noah Rothman (@NoahCRothman) March 1, 2017 * it's 2020, Oprah is President * Americans: 1) count calories on Weight Watchers scale 2) get free cars and healthcare 3) are v emotional — Olivia Messer (@OliviaMesser) March 1, 2017 Winfrey has long insisted she would never entertain a run for the White House--at least, not "in this lifetime," as she told CBS News in 2015. In the Bloomberg interview, Winfrey compared a potential 2020 showdown with President Trump to taking on legendary talk show host Phil Donahue early in her career, when even Winfrey's friends predicted she would fail. "It didn't matter to me, because I did not think that he was beatable," she said. "I beat him. I did. I wasn't trying to." In the Bloomberg interview, Winfrey insisted her interest in making a run for president nonetheless remained low. If she did, she can bank on the fact that her popularity is still extremely high, with very high awareness--80%--as tracked by The Q Scores Company. The average celebrity has about 29% awareness. Would that translate into votes? Oprah, who dominated television with her daytime show that ended in 2011 after 25 years, appeals most strongly to adults over 50, especially women. Winfrey's overall Q Score is 20%, which is considered average, according to the company. Among women 50+, Oprah's Q Score jumps to 23%, much higher than the average of 16%. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

She always said she'd never run for president. Then Donald Trump ran--and won. Now Oprah Winfrey admits she's given the idea of using her massive media power to shatter that "highest and hardest glass ceiling" that Hillary Clinton couldn't quite crack.

"I thought, 'Oh gee I don't have the experience," Winfrey said in an interview on The David Rubenstein Show: Peer-to-Peer Conversations, which launched this week on Bloomberg Television. "I don't know enough. And now I'm thinking, 'Oh? Oh!'"

Oprah being Oprah, she remains in a media league beyond most mere mortals--even The Donald. That means her decision to say simply "oh" is more than enough to get people buzzing, as they did immediately on Twitter:

Going to be awkward when Trump complains about how cable news is obsessively covering Oprah's rallies in 2019. — Noah Rothman (@NoahCRothman) March 1, 2017

* it's 2020, Oprah is President * Americans:

1) count calories on Weight Watchers scale

2) get free cars and healthcare

3) are v emotional — Olivia Messer (@OliviaMesser) March 1, 2017

Winfrey has long insisted she would never entertain a run for the White House--at least, not "in this lifetime," as she told CBS News in 2015.

In the Bloomberg interview, Winfrey compared a potential 2020 showdown with President Trump to taking on legendary talk show host Phil Donahue early in her career, when even Winfrey's friends predicted she would fail.

"It didn't matter to me, because I did not think that he was beatable," she said. "I beat him. I did. I wasn't trying to."

In the Bloomberg interview, Winfrey insisted her interest in making a run for president nonetheless remained low. If she did, she can bank on the fact that her popularity is still extremely high, with very high awareness--80%--as tracked by The Q Scores Company. The average celebrity has about 29% awareness.

Would that translate into votes? Oprah, who dominated television with her daytime show that ended in 2011 after 25 years, appeals most strongly to adults over 50, especially women. Winfrey's overall Q Score is 20%, which is considered average, according to the company. Among women 50+, Oprah's Q Score jumps to 23%, much higher than the average of 16%.