The Latest: Judge: Proof against shooter's wife 'debatable'
The Latest: Judge: Proof against shooter's wife 'debatable'
Shares                The Latest on the court case of the widow of the Orlando nightclub shooter (all times local): 12 p.m. A federal judge in California said it was "debatable" that there's evidence showing the widow of the gunman who killed dozens of people at an Orlando nightclub helped him carry out the attack. U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna Ryu on Wednesday ordered 31-year-old Noor Salman released from jail pending trial on charges of aiding her husband, Omar Mateen, and lying to investigators after the shooting that killed 49 people. She has pleaded not guilty. Salman's lawyers say it's rare to release suspects in terror-related cases on bail and that it shows the weakness of the case. Mateen pledged allegiance to several terror organizations during the June attack before police shot and killed him. The judge says there's no evidence that Salman holds extremist views. Prosecutors declined to comment after court. ——— 11:45 a.m. A federal judge in California won't immediately release the widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at an Orlando nightclub, putting the order on hold for two days so prosecutors can appeal. U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna Ryu decided Wednesday that 31-year-old Noor Salman isn't a flight risk or a danger to public safety and should leave jail ahead of trial. Salman is charged with aiding and abetting her husband, Omar Mateen, and lying to investigators after the June shooting that killed 49 people. She has pleaded not guilty. The judge says there's no evidence that Salman has connections to the Islamic State group or holds extremist views. Mateen pledged allegiance to several terror organizations during the attack before police shot and killed him. ——— 11:20 a.m. A federal judge in California has agreed to release on bail the widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at an Orlando nightclub until she faces trial on charges of aiding his attack. U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna Ryu decided Wednesday that 31-year-old Noor Salman isn't a flight risk or a danger to public safety. The judge says there's no evidence that Salman has connections to the Islamic State or holds extremist views. Her husband, Omar Mateen, pledged allegiance to several terror organizations during the attack before police shot and killed him. Salman is charged with aiding and abetting Mateen and lying to investigators after the shooting. She has pleaded not guilty. Salman will live with her uncle in Northern California and has to wear an electronic ankle monitor. A trial hasn't been scheduled. ——— 11:30 p.m. A California judge is deciding whether to release the widow of the gunman who killed dozens of people at a Florida nightclub and is accused helping him. A hearing is set in federal court in Oakland on Wednesday to determine whether Noor Salman must stay behind bars while she awaits trial. She was arrested in January and charged with aiding her husband Omar Mateen's attack at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando and then lying to investigators. She has pleaded not guilty. The judge ordered a psychiatric evaluation of the 31-year-old before making a decision. Prosecutors have argued against her release, saying she is a danger to the public. They say Salman accompanied Mateen on scouting trips to the bar before he killed 49 people and wounded 53 others. Shares                  The Latest: Judge: Proof against shooter's wife 'debatable'   ANALYSIS: Administration can't shake itself out of Russia pattern   Sessions used political funds for RNC convention expenses   Trump touts plans to bolster military aboard new aircraft carrier   Irish nationalists seek boost in Northern Ireland election   GOP, Dem foes of health care bill in scavenger hunt for copy   Briles says he didn't cover up sexual assaults at Baylor   Timeline of investigation into Kim Jong Nam's apparent assassination   US airstrikes conducted in Yemen overnight   Suspected gang member arrests related to Long Island teen murders   4-year-old wrestler runs away from competitor   Cat rescued from inside chimney: 'She was just happy to be out of there'   2-year-old with heart defect invited to senior prom   Photos mistakenly donated to Goodwill returned to owner   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Oregon lawmakers push to protect pot users' info from US   Iranian film hails demise of US Navy in imagined Gulf battle   Sweden institutes military draft for both men and women   Serbian presidential vote set for April 2; Vucic favored   Video purports to show deadly encounter between Georgia teen and deputies   Judge blocks release of Orlando nightclub gunman's widow   Police looking for man in connection with woman's fatal stabbing in Nashville   Tom Hanks sends new espresso machine to White House press corps   Beloved railroad seen in 'La La Land' chugging back to life   Accountants connected to Oscars mix-up will not work show again   Arnold Schwarzenegger reflects on affair, Twitter feud with Trump   Former NAACP leader Rachel Dolezal gets new African name   Jailing of officers shakes Baltimore criminal justice system   Jane Fonda reveals past rape and sexual abuse   Katie Holmes speaks out about giving daughter Suri a 'stable' childhood   What's new at the Epcot Flower and Garden Festival

The Latest on the court case of the widow of the Orlando nightclub shooter (all times local):

12 p.m.

A federal judge in California said it was "debatable" that there's evidence showing the widow of the gunman who killed dozens of people at an Orlando nightclub helped him carry out the attack.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna Ryu on Wednesday ordered 31-year-old Noor Salman released from jail pending trial on charges of aiding her husband, Omar Mateen, and lying to investigators after the shooting that killed 49 people. She has pleaded not guilty.

Salman's lawyers say it's rare to release suspects in terror-related cases on bail and that it shows the weakness of the case.

Mateen pledged allegiance to several terror organizations during the June attack before police shot and killed him. The judge says there's no evidence that Salman holds extremist views.

Prosecutors declined to comment after court.

———

11:45 a.m.

A federal judge in California won't immediately release the widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at an Orlando nightclub, putting the order on hold for two days so prosecutors can appeal.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna Ryu decided Wednesday that 31-year-old Noor Salman isn't a flight risk or a danger to public safety and should leave jail ahead of trial.

Salman is charged with aiding and abetting her husband, Omar Mateen, and lying to investigators after the June shooting that killed 49 people. She has pleaded not guilty.

The judge says there's no evidence that Salman has connections to the Islamic State group or holds extremist views. Mateen pledged allegiance to several terror organizations during the attack before police shot and killed him.

———

11:20 a.m.

A federal judge in California has agreed to release on bail the widow of the gunman who killed 49 people at an Orlando nightclub until she faces trial on charges of aiding his attack.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Donna Ryu decided Wednesday that 31-year-old Noor Salman isn't a flight risk or a danger to public safety. The judge says there's no evidence that Salman has connections to the Islamic State or holds extremist views.

Her husband, Omar Mateen, pledged allegiance to several terror organizations during the attack before police shot and killed him.

Salman is charged with aiding and abetting Mateen and lying to investigators after the shooting. She has pleaded not guilty.

Salman will live with her uncle in Northern California and has to wear an electronic ankle monitor.

A trial hasn't been scheduled.

———

11:30 p.m.

A California judge is deciding whether to release the widow of the gunman who killed dozens of people at a Florida nightclub and is accused helping him.

A hearing is set in federal court in Oakland on Wednesday to determine whether Noor Salman must stay behind bars while she awaits trial.

She was arrested in January and charged with aiding her husband Omar Mateen's attack at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando and then lying to investigators. She has pleaded not guilty.

The judge ordered a psychiatric evaluation of the 31-year-old before making a decision.

Prosecutors have argued against her release, saying she is a danger to the public. They say Salman accompanied Mateen on scouting trips to the bar before he killed 49 people and wounded 53 others.