Will Allen Sentenced to 6 Years in Prison for Role in Ponzi Scheme
Will Allen Sentenced to 6 Years in Prison for Role in Ponzi Scheme
Former NFL cornerback Will Allen has been sentenced to six years in prison for his role in "I don’t doubt that you began this venture with good intentions," Judge Young told Allen, according to Jeff Ostrowski  . "But you’re in denial, sir. The crimes here are the crimes of fraud. Lying." Amaral also noted Allen was taken into custody immediately. Allen pleaded guilty to " Ostrowski . Prosecutors said that Allen and —received loans from investors, under the condition they would be used as loans for athletes, per However, only $22 million of the $35 million the pair collected was ever actually paid, and prosecutors sought $16.8 million in restitution. Allen's public defender, Oscar Cruz, attempted to put the brunt of the blame on Daub. "Ms. Daub was the professional banker at [Capital Financial Partners] and Mr. Allen unequivocally did not have the expertise necessary to deceive her about any aspect of their business," Cruz noted, per Ostrowski. "In fact, the opposite is likely true as Ms. Daub had the greater ability to quietly siphon money from investors for herself and or members of her family such as Joshua Daub whom she involved in the business." Daub also received a six-year prison sentence, per Amaral , who also noted that the punishment was "a Allen, 38, played in the NFL for 11 seasons with the New York Giants , Miami Dolphins and New England Patriots . Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Marc Serota/Getty Images

Former NFL cornerback Will Allen has been sentenced to six years in prison for his role in a Ponzi scheme, according to Brian Amaral of Law360.

Judge Bill Young did not take kindly to Allen attempting to deflect blame for his role in the scheme, per Amaral.

"I don’t doubt that you began this venture with good intentions," Judge Young told Allen, according to Jeff Ostrowski of the Palm Beach Post. "But you’re in denial, sir. The crimes here are the crimes of fraud. Lying."

Amaral also noted Allen was taken into custody immediately.

Allen pleaded guilty to "defrauding investors by raising cash for phony loans to professional athletes," per Ostrowski. Prosecutors said that Allen and Susan Daub—a former banker who served as Allen's co-conspirator in the Ponzi scheme—received loans from investors, under the condition they would be used as loans for athletes, per Marc Lancaster of the Sporting News.

However, only $22 million of the $35 million the pair collected was ever actually paid, and prosecutors sought $16.8 million in restitution.

Allen's public defender, Oscar Cruz, attempted to put the brunt of the blame on Daub.

"Ms. Daub was the professional banker at [Capital Financial Partners] and Mr. Allen unequivocally did not have the expertise necessary to deceive her about any aspect of their business," Cruz noted, per Ostrowski. "In fact, the opposite is likely true as Ms. Daub had the greater ability to quietly siphon money from investors for herself and or members of her family such as Joshua Daub whom she involved in the business."

Daub also received a six-year prison sentence, per Amaral, who also noted that the punishment was "about twice the average fraud sentence."

Allen, 38, played in the NFL for 11 seasons with the New York Giants, Miami Dolphins and New England Patriots.