Georges St-Pierre to face Michael Bisping for middleweight belt on a date still to be determined
St-Pierre to face Bisping; date, venue still TBD
St-Pierre to face Bisping; date, venue still TBD Coenen aims for history as Bellator's inaugural featherweight champion Cheat Sheet: Overeem vs. Hunt UFC 209 - Woodley vs. Thompson statistical breakdown Nurmagomedov's coach believes McGregor will fight Mayweather Mayweather-McGregor 'an embarrassment' - De La Hoya Who should Georges St-Pierre face in his return fight? Gadelha-Kowalkiewicz to square off at UFC 212 Gustafsson, Teixeira matchup targeted for May How every UFC fight ended in 2016 Straus will return against Freire at Bellator 178 Maynard: Hall fight was 'complete waste of time' Jedrzejczyk-Andrade slated for May 13 in Dallas Rankings: Lewis making noise at heavyweight Lewis stops Browne in Round 2 Ludwig: Something was off with Cruz in title loss Mayweather-McGregor odds are like ... James Krause looking for 'TUF' redemption Page will face Anderson at Bellator 179 Mayweather opens as 25-1 favorite vs. McGregor De Randamie unafraid of Cyborg, wants Holm rematch MacDonald sped up recovery for Bellator debut UFC president Dana White explains the sequence of events that led to three-time champion Georges St-Pierre returning to the sport for a fight against middleweight champion Michael Bisping. (1:23) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment MMA columnist for ESPN.com Analyst for "MMA Live" Covered MMA for Las Vegas Sun Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Georges St-Pierre's return to mixed martial arts will begin with a UFC middleweight championship fight against Michael Bisping. UFC president Dana White announced the 185-pound matchup on SportsCenter on Wednesday. The bout will take place at a date to be determined. St-Pierre (25-2) was the longest-reigning welterweight champion in UFC history, defending the title nine consecutive times between 2008 and 2013. He vacated the title in late 2013, expressing a need to take a break from the sport, but rumors of an inevitable comeback significantly heated up in 2016. "He wanted to take a break," White said. "He wanted to take some time off from the sport. He's been talking about coming back for a couple years. Personally, I wasn't a believer, but he and I got together in Las Vegas, had dinner and got a deal done. "I'm not a big believer in long layoffs. Even Muhammad Ali, after a long layoff, didn't look the same. But [St-Pierre] is always in shape, he takes care of himself physically, and we'll see what happens." Bisping (30-7) has been publicly campaigning for the St-Pierre fight since late last year. He even verbally agreed to fight St-Pierre at UFC 206 on Dec. 10 in Toronto, but the Canadian star was unable to come to a financial deal with the UFC to make it happen. Last month, White mentioned St-Pierre had broached the possibility of moving down to 155 pounds. Such a move could potentially set up a blockbuster fight between St-Pierre and lightweight champion Conor McGregor. On SportsCenter, White said that fight was not close to happening in St-Pierre's return. "Georges said he can make 155 pounds, but listen, let's be honest here, everybody wants to take a shot at Michael Bisping," White said. "They think he's beatable. Obviously [St-Pierre] is no different." St-Pierre and Bisping are scheduled to host a news conference later this week in Las Vegas, ahead of the promotion's UFC 209 pay-per-view. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

UFC president Dana White explains the sequence of events that led to three-time champion Georges St-Pierre returning to the sport for a fight against middleweight champion Michael Bisping. (1:23)

Georges St-Pierre's return to mixed martial arts will begin with a UFC middleweight championship fight against Michael Bisping.

UFC president Dana White announced the 185-pound matchup on SportsCenter on Wednesday. The bout will take place at a date to be determined.

St-Pierre (25-2) was the longest-reigning welterweight champion in UFC history, defending the title nine consecutive times between 2008 and 2013. He vacated the title in late 2013, expressing a need to take a break from the sport, but rumors of an inevitable comeback significantly heated up in 2016.

Georges St. Pierre's more than three-year hiatus from the octagon will soon be over with the UFC announcing plans for GSP to take on Michael Bisping in a middleweight title bout on a date still to be determined. Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC/Getty Images

"He wanted to take a break," White said. "He wanted to take some time off from the sport. He's been talking about coming back for a couple years. Personally, I wasn't a believer, but he and I got together in Las Vegas, had dinner and got a deal done.

"I'm not a big believer in long layoffs. Even Muhammad Ali, after a long layoff, didn't look the same. But [St-Pierre] is always in shape, he takes care of himself physically, and we'll see what happens."

Bisping (30-7) has been publicly campaigning for the St-Pierre fight since late last year. He even verbally agreed to fight St-Pierre at UFC 206 on Dec. 10 in Toronto, but the Canadian star was unable to come to a financial deal with the UFC to make it happen.

Editor's Picks White: St-Pierre's long-awaited UFC return official One of the biggest draws in UFC history is coming back. Dana White told the LA Times on Friday that former 170-pound champion Georges St-Pierre has signed a deal to return to the UFC.

Last month, White mentioned St-Pierre had broached the possibility of moving down to 155 pounds. Such a move could potentially set up a blockbuster fight between St-Pierre and lightweight champion Conor McGregor.

On SportsCenter, White said that fight was not close to happening in St-Pierre's return.

"Georges said he can make 155 pounds, but listen, let's be honest here, everybody wants to take a shot at Michael Bisping," White said. "They think he's beatable. Obviously [St-Pierre] is no different."

St-Pierre and Bisping are scheduled to host a news conference later this week in Las Vegas, ahead of the promotion's UFC 209 pay-per-view.