Tyrese Reveals on Instagram That He Secretly Got Married on Valentine's Day
Tyrese Reveals on Instagram That He Secretly Got Married on Valentine's Day
Tyrese Reveals on Instagram That He Secretly Got Married on Valentine's Day  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Â actor Tyrese Gibson is a married man. On Tuesday (Feb. 28), the 38-year-actor revealed on Instagram that he secretly tied the knot this past Valentine's Day.Â In a string of posts, Gibson divulged details from his privateÂ wedding. First, he posted a montage from his big day with a bible verse as his caption. "Mark 10:8 And the two will becomeÂ #OneFlesh.Â Mr & Mrs Gibson. #MyBlackQueen#GrownManSeason," he wrote. With Brian Courtney Wilson 's "I'll Just Say Yes" used as theÂ soundtrack forÂ the video, fans were able to see photos of Gibson and his bride showcasing their rings. Towards the end of the clip, the pair are found walking together side-by-side on the beach.Â The second photo featuredÂ Gibson's unidentified wife flaunting her gaudy wedding ring. "So many people give a lot of power to 'The Ring' as a man I had to wait till I truly truly felt like my WORDS and my FEET would walk in the same direction as my HEART.... Not to worry I won't be updating you guys on every detail and every aspect of our life," he beganÂ his caption. He added: "We tried to keep this all a secret and it somehow got out there so we just wanted to share the blessed news ourselves."  Previously, Gibson was married to Norma Mitchell for two years before the couple split in 2009. They have a nine-year-old daughter named Shayla.Â Check out his Instagram posts below. Mark 10:8 And the two will become #OneFlesh | - Mr & Mrs Gibson....... #MyBlackQueen #GrownManSeason A post shared by TYRESE (@tyrese) on So many people give a lot of power to "The Ring" as a man I had to wait till I truly truly felt like my WORDS and my FEET would walk in the same direction as my HEART.... Not to worry I won't be updating you guys on every detail and every aspect of our life..... We tried to keep this all a secret and it somehow got out there so we just wanted to share the blessed news ourselves....... Our way.... during our pre-martial session Pastor Creflo Dollar said "Don't make the mistake that others make thinking #so much about the future that you lose focus of the gift of the present, be patient and present in love.... You and your wife should stand on each side of your empty canvas of love and paint the picture along the way...... #Amen The future isn't always promised but what's certain is we're all capable of making a commitment to wake up everyday and love someone the best way you can... It's quite simple.......... it's #GrownManSeason we feel the purity of Gods presence all over this union He's walking with us so no weapons formed- this will last..... We're so grateful and humbled by your outpouring of love! We appreciate all of the prayers and well wishes.... Life's a trip.... Cause sometimes when you pray you get #exactly what your heart desires........ I got #MyBlackQueen I didn't just marry her I married my daughters new example...... Grace, elegance, college educated with multiple degrees, kind, classy, sophisticated, - We are all flawed, sinners and have made mistakes but I hope you decide to keep loving, keep the faith and God will to send you what's yours.... #Amen A post shared by TYRESE (@tyrese) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Tyrese Gibson at Essence Black Women in Hollywood Awards at the Beverly Wilshire Four Seasons Hotel on Feb. 23, 2017 in Beverly Hills, Calif.

Fast & the FuriousÂ actor Tyrese Gibson is a married man. On Tuesday (Feb. 28), the 38-year-actor revealed on Instagram that he secretly tied the knot this past Valentine's Day.Â

In a string of posts, Gibson divulged details from his privateÂ wedding. First, he posted a montage from his big day with a bible verse as his caption. "Mark 10:8 And the two will becomeÂ #OneFlesh.Â Mr & Mrs Gibson. #MyBlackQueen#GrownManSeason," he wrote. With Brian Courtney Wilson's "I'll Just Say Yes" used as theÂ soundtrack forÂ the video, fans were able to see photos of Gibson and his bride showcasing their rings. Towards the end of the clip, the pair are found walking together side-by-side on the beach.Â

The second photo featuredÂ Gibson's unidentified wife flaunting her gaudy wedding ring. "So many people give a lot of power to 'The Ring' as a man I had to wait till I truly truly felt like my WORDS and my FEET would walk in the same direction as my HEART.... Not to worry I won't be updating you guys on every detail and every aspect of our life," he beganÂ his caption. He added: "We tried to keep this all a secret and it somehow got out there so we just wanted to share the blessed news ourselves."

Previously, Gibson was married to Norma Mitchell for two years before the couple split in 2009. They have a nine-year-old daughter named Shayla.Â

Check out his Instagram posts below.