Miracle baby becomes youngest to survive major abdominal surgery
Miracle baby becomes youngest to survive major abdominal surgery
"miracle" premature baby has been saved by a ground-breaking operation performed when she was just 23 weeks old. Abigail Peters is believed to be the youngest ever patient to survive major abdominal surgery which was carried out by doctors in a London hospital just six days after she was born at 23 weeks' gestation. Medical staff at St George’s hospital said they believed the operation had a "less than 10 per cent" chance of success. Abigail weighed 1.3lbs (609g) - about two-thirds of a bag of sugar - and was smaller than her surgeon Zahid Mukhtar's hand. Consultant paediatric surgeon Mr Mukhtar led a ten-strong team to carry out the operation to treat Abi's severe gut condition, called perforated necrotizing enterocolitis. Although a common surgical emergency in premature babies, the youngest previously operated on were at 25-26 weeks' gestation. After four months in hospital, she was finally allowed to go home on Monday. Her mother Louise, 32, told the Evening Standard: "It's been such a rollercoaster and it was so scary when it first happened. We didn't know what to expect. We prayed and hoped for the best. "The operation happened at such an early age. Within a day or two she would have been dead. "They told us all the risks but they didn't say this is the youngest baby in the world who has been operated on, otherwise it might have scared us too much." She added that the NHS has been "absolutely phenomenal". Mrs Peters, an analyst at Investec bank, had gone into early labour suddenly at her home in Hinchley Wood, near Esher. bi was delivered at St Peter's hospital, Chertsey, on October 26 and immediately put on life support before being transferred to St George’s Hospital in Tooting. Surgeons used specially adapted equipment because she was so small.

A "miracle" premature baby has been saved by a ground-breaking operation performed when she was just 23 weeks old.

Abigail Peters is believed to be the youngest ever patient to survive major abdominal surgery which was carried out by doctors in a London hospital just six days after she was born at 23 weeks' gestation.

Medical staff at St George’s hospital said they believed the operation had a "less than 10 per cent" chance of success.

Abigail weighed 1.3lbs (609g) - about two-thirds of a bag of sugar - and was smaller than her surgeon Zahid Mukhtar's hand.

Consultant paediatric surgeon Mr Mukhtar led a ten-strong team to carry out the operation to treat Abi's severe gut condition, called perforated necrotizing enterocolitis.

Although a common surgical emergency in premature babies, the youngest previously operated on were at 25-26 weeks' gestation.

After four months in hospital, she was finally allowed to go home on Monday.

Her mother Louise, 32, told the Evening Standard: "It's been such a rollercoaster and it was so scary when it first happened. We didn't know what to expect. We prayed and hoped for the best.

"The operation happened at such an early age. Within a day or two she would have been dead.

"They told us all the risks but they didn't say this is the youngest baby in the world who has been operated on, otherwise it might have scared us too much."

She added that the NHS has been "absolutely phenomenal".

Mrs Peters, an analyst at Investec bank, had gone into early labour suddenly at her home in Hinchley Wood, near Esher.