Trump's Plan To Sell Insurance Across State Lines Doesn't Mean Lower Costs
Trump's Plan To Sell Insurance Across State Lines Doesn't Mean Lower Costs
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Japsen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President Donald Trump reiterated his call for health insurance companies to be able to sell policies across state lines in a speech Tuesday night to a joint session of Congress, but analysts say insurers won't spend the money to make that a success. “The time has come to give Americans the freedom to purchase health insurance across state lines–creating a truly competitive national marketplace that will bring cost way down and provide far better care,” Trump told members of Congress. President Donald Trump addresses a joint session of Congress in Washington, DC, on February 28, 2017. (Photo:  SCALZO/AFP/Getty Images) But or worked, largely because insurance companies haven’t wanted to spend the money contracting with more doctors and hospitals. “Currently individual states can decide whether or not to allow insurers to sell plans from another state in their state,” the Center for Health and Economy wrote about Trump’s health plan during last year’s presidential campaign. “However, even where this is allowed, various barriers such as the difficulty of building a network and attracting enough customers to create a large enough risk pool make it unappealing to insurers to pursue this option.” The ability to have enough Americans in the risk pool is already going to be a problem for Trump given Republicans in Congress are opposed to the individual mandate woven into the Affordable Care Act that requires people to have coverage. That idea was designed to get more younger and healthier people in the pool, but insurers complain the penalties aren't costly enough to force more Americans to buy coverage. A key reason insurance companies like , , and others are scaling back participation in coverage offered on public exchanges is because there aren’t enough healthy Americans buying policies. Thus, the risk pool is full of mostly sick people with mounting expensive claims, triggering hundreds of millions of dollars in losses for insurers. Millions of Americans became eligible to purchase Obamacare policies because the ACA prevents insurance companies from denying coverage to people with preexisting medical conditions. Trump addressed preexisting conditions Tuesday night but shied away from guaranteeing them coverage. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

President Donald Trump reiterated his call for health insurance companies to be able to sell policies across state lines in a speech Tuesday night to a joint session of Congress, but analysts say insurers won't spend the money to make that a success.

“The time has come to give Americans the freedom to purchase health insurance across state lines–creating a truly competitive national marketplace that will bring cost way down and provide far better care,” Trump told members of Congress.

But insurers can sell across state lines in some states, and it hasn’t reined in costs or worked, largely because insurance companies haven’t wanted to spend the money contracting with more doctors and hospitals.

“Currently individual states can decide whether or not to allow insurers to sell plans from another state in their state,” the Center for Health and Economy wrote about Trump’s health plan during last year’s presidential campaign. “However, even where this is allowed, various barriers such as the difficulty of building a network and attracting enough customers to create a large enough risk pool make it unappealing to insurers to pursue this option.”

The ability to have enough Americans in the risk pool is already going to be a problem for Trump given Republicans in Congress are opposed to the individual mandate woven into the Affordable Care Act that requires people to have coverage. That idea was designed to get more younger and healthier people in the pool, but insurers complain the penalties aren't costly enough to force more Americans to buy coverage.

A key reason insurance companies like , , and others are scaling back participation in coverage offered on public exchanges is because there aren’t enough healthy Americans buying policies. Thus, the risk pool is full of mostly sick people with mounting expensive claims, triggering hundreds of millions of dollars in losses for insurers.

Millions of Americans became eligible to purchase Obamacare policies because the ACA prevents insurance companies from denying coverage to people with preexisting medical conditions. Trump addressed preexisting conditions Tuesday night but shied away from guaranteeing them coverage.

"We should ensure that Americans with preexisting conditions have access to coverage, and that we have a stable transition for Americans currently enrolled in the healthcare exchanges," Trump said.