Taya Kyle: Backlash to Trump's SEAL Widow Tribute 'Makes Me Sick to My Stomach'

Taya Kyle: Backlash to Trump's SEAL Widow Tribute 'Makes Me Sick to My Stomach' // // // // After his first address before Congress, President Trump has come under fire from some on the left for "exploiting" the widow of a fallen Navy SEAL. Carryn Owens, the widow of William "Ryan" Owens, who died in a U.S. Special Ops raid in Yemen last month, was brought to tears by a two-minute standing ovation during Trump's speech. Michael Moore and Bill Maher accused Trump of using the grieving widow as a "prop," while "The View's" Sunny Hostin said it was "so exploitative." Taya Kyle, widow of "American Sniper" Chris Kyle, said the standing ovation for Owens was not about politics, but about saying thank you to a family who gave everything for our country. Kyle said that the backlash to Trump's tribute to the Owens family makes her sick to her stomach. "It totally negates the meaning behind this. And the meaning of it - for all the people watching who cried with her - is that some valiant people are out there fighting, not for Republicans, not for Democrats. They're fighting for this country," Kyle said. "And God bless them for doing it." She added that Owens is anything but a "pawn" or "poor widow." "She is strong," Kyle said. "She's lived a life where she had to be strong. And this is another step in her journey of being stronger than she wants to be." Watch more above, and see the emotional moment with Owens during Trump's address . Kyle also joined "Fox & Friends" on Thursday morning to discuss the criticism of Owens' widow. "I applaud [Carryn Owens]. She is anything but a fool." - @TayaKyle defends Navy SEAL's widow against critics pic.twitter.com/hEwnulvS2i — FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) March 2, 2017 She also reacted to a Democrat and former Clinton volunteer being fired after he called Owens' widow an "idiot."

Dem, Former Clinton Volunteer Fired for Calling SEAL Widow an 'Idiot'

After his first address before Congress, President Trump has come under fire from some on the left for "exploiting" the widow of a fallen Navy SEAL.

Carryn Owens, the widow of William "Ryan" Owens, who died in a U.S. Special Ops raid in Yemen last month, was brought to tears by a two-minute standing ovation during Trump's speech.

Michael Moore and Bill Maher accused Trump of using the grieving widow as a "prop," while "The View's" Sunny Hostin said it was "so exploitative."

Taya Kyle, widow of "American Sniper" Chris Kyle, said the standing ovation for Owens was not about politics, but about saying thank you to a family who gave everything for our country.

Kyle said that the backlash to Trump's tribute to the Owens family makes her sick to her stomach.

"It totally negates the meaning behind this. And the meaning of it - for all the people watching who cried with her - is that some valiant people are out there fighting, not for Republicans, not for Democrats. They're fighting for this country," Kyle said. "And God bless them for doing it."

She added that Owens is anything but a "pawn" or "poor widow."

"She is strong," Kyle said. "She's lived a life where she had to be strong. And this is another step in her journey of being stronger than she wants to be."

Watch more above, and see the emotional moment with Owens during Trump's address.

Kyle also joined "Fox & Friends" on Thursday morning to discuss the criticism of Owens' widow.

"I applaud [Carryn Owens]. She is anything but a fool." -@TayaKyle defends Navy SEAL's widow against critics pic.twitter.com/hEwnulvS2i — FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) March 2, 2017

She also reacted to a Democrat and former Clinton volunteer being fired after he called Owens' widow an "idiot."

How Trump's Address Went Over at a CA Bar Near the Mexico Border

Oprah Winfrey Rethinking Idea of Presidential Run After Trump's Win

Judge Jeanine on Trump's Address: 'It Was Presidential, He Spoke to Everyone'

VP Pence on Trump Speech: 'It Was a Great Night for America'