It’s Time To Talk About "One Tree Hill" And The Worst Character On The Show
It's Time To Talk About "One Tree Hill" And The Worst Character On The Show
There’s no doubt about it, is a damn iconic show, filled with great characters. Let’s not fuck around though. Want to know who WASN’T great? Lucas Scott, that’s who. The fuck you talking about, Lucas? “But, but, he was the centre of the storyline at the start,” you whimper. Yeah but let’s be real, there’s a reason the show managed to also survive without him. Because he was an annoying, whiny, self-righteous jerk. He was honestly just the world’s biggest fuckboy. Lucas Scott is the worst fuckboy because he really believes he's in love with a different girl every god damn day And seemed to always pop up with robotic, meaningless advice for people disguised under the pretense of “caring”. Lucas Scott is actually the worst. All he does on this show is butt into everyone's business with wooden yet idealistic judgement. He fucked Peyton around. He fucked Brooke around. And then acted all shocked when it was thrown back in his big, dumb face. Not only that, but he’d dick people around and then be all, “Oh but, like, I don’t know where I stand with you.” Meet Lucas Scott. The inventor of saying some deep dramatic ass shit then walking away. YOU DESERVE TO STAND NOWHERE LUCAS YOU CONFUSING PIECE OF SHIT. why would anyone like Lucas Scott he's such a brooding cheating little asshole who treats every woman he's with like shit And sure, we never thought Lindsey and Lucas would last, but to string her along until THE DAMN WEDDING DAY, pretending that he didn’t have feelings for someone else? CW CW Karen raised you BETTER than that Lucas, you twat. He basically just never owned his own shit, and was an expert at throwing a pity party. Lucas Scott is seriously the worst. Literally never owns up to his BS and always makes himself the victim. Such a weak ass dude. And then would come out with dribble like this, before ignoring his own goddamn pretentious advice once again to go cheat on some girlfriend or something. I tell ya what Lucas, you sure are a simple thing. God, he just sucks. growing up is realizing that lucas scott was a piece of shit who didn't deserve brooke or peyton. i think you're officially an adult then. Thanks for letting me get that off my chest.   Here's Everything You Missed On "My Kitchen Rules"...    How Do You Eat These Classic Aussie Foods?  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.