15 Things Anyone With Endometriosis Needs You To Know
15 Things Anyone With Endometriosis Needs You To Know
It’s not just a “bad period.” Endometriosis is a condition where the tissue that normally lines the inside of the uterus actually grows outside of the uterus (typically on your ovaries, fallopian tubes, or pelvic organs). This can cause severe pain, inflammation, and even the formation of scar tissue. Pain from endometriosis can occur at any time of the month, and is not limited to menstrual cramps . Painkillers usually don’t do the trick. And the pain doesn’t always manifest in the same way. Hello, why does my leg hurt today? Our endometriosis is probably not going away anytime soon… There is currently no cure for endometriosis. … So we don’t always know what to say when someone asks if we’re “feeling better yet.” Like, no? I’m not. Sorry. Pregnancy isn’t a cure . And sometimes neither is surgery . There’s a good chance that we’ve tried every single “cure” available on the internet. So while we appreciate your concern, we don’t want to know about the weird pill your Facebook friend from high school messaged you about. We never *choose* to miss out on social activities due to pain. Being in pain literally every single day is certainly not a choice. It’s not just physical pain, it’s emotional. Dealing with physical pain day after day can take a serious toll. It’s not uncommon. It’s estimated that at least five million women live with endometriosis in the US alone. But it’s still common to be misdiagnosed for years. Research suggests that there is an average of 7.5 years between a woman seeing a doctor and actually getting the endometriosis diagnosis. It affects our lives in some way every. single. day. Telling us our illness “could be worse” is incredibly insensitive. Absolutely, there are other problems and illnesses in the world. But that doesn’t change the fact that we are living in daily physical pain. And just because you can’t see our illness doesn’t mean it isn’t there.   In Pictures: The Grim And Absurd Reality Of The First...    18 States Just Stood Up For Transgender Students At...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.