Marine Le Pen could be jailed for over 'violent images'
Marine Le Pen could be jailed for over 'violent images'


French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has lost her European parliament immunity from prosecution in an obscene videos case that could see her jailed for three years.

The 48-year-old leader of the far-right Front National (FN) now faces being summoned by a French judge, and being charged with 'distributing violent images'.

Le Pen caused outrage by using Twitter to publish films including one showing the decapitated U.S. journalist James Foley.

French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen (pictured) has lost her European parliament immunity from prosecution in an obscene videos case that could see her jailed for three years

Now EU parliamentarians have voted to strip Ms Le Pen, who is an MEP, of immunity that would have protected her from legal action.

The decision will now be communicated to an examining magistrate in Nanterre, the Paris suburb, who has the power to summon Le Pen for an interrogation.

She could then be charged before the French presidential elections start in April. It follows Ms Le Pen refusing to cooperate with the French judicial authorities over a separate case in which she is accused of creating fake jobs in the European Parliament so as to embezzle money from the EU.

In turn, Le Pen has complained of a political plot, saying: 'This only shows French citizens what the EU is, what the European Parliament is – it's all part of the system that wants to stop the French people's candidate that I am.'

Le Pen posted an image of freelance journalist James Foley's decapitated body on Twitter

Le Pen posted the three pictures in December 2015 during a Twitter spat with a journalist who compared the FN to jihadi terrorists.

John and Diane Foley, the father and mother of James Foley, said the uncensored picture of their son - who was executed in 2014 - was used by Le Pen for political gain.

Other images showed a man on fire in a cage, and another being run over by a tank.

An investigation was launched by French prosecutors for the crime of 'distributing violent images', but Le Pen refused to cooperate, saying she was exempt as an MEP.

Members of the EU's legal affairs committee voted to lift Le Pen's immunity earlier in the week, and the decision has now been ratified by the full parliament.

If she is convicted, Le Pen could face three years in prison, or a fine of more than £60,000.

Foley's parents, John and Diane Foley, hit out at her for posting the image for political gain

Although MEPs have immunity from prosecutions in order to protect their freedom of speech, countries can request for these to be lifted at any time.

Lifting the immunity will apply to the tweets, and not to the fake jobs allegations that could eventually see Le Pen jailed for 10 years.

Ms Le Pen last lost her EU privilege against prosecution in 2013, after she compared Muslims praying in the street because they had no mosques to occupying Nazis.

She was accused of 'incitement to discrimination over people's religious beliefs', but was cleared after a trial in 2015.

Ms Le Pen's father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, has a string of convictions behind him for racism, anti-Semitism and xenophobia.

He remains the honorary president of the FN, and also another of the party's leading MEPs.

Polls suggest Ms Le Pen will win the first round of French presidential elections in April, but is then expected to lose the second round.

The current favourite to win is independent candidate Emmanuel Macron, who today outlined his manifesto for government.