McDonald's to experiment with delivery
Loving it... at home! McDonald's to experiment with delivery


McDonald's has announced plans to experiment with delivery, hinting that homes in its five biggest markets around the world are next in line to get the Golden Arches delivered to the doorstep.

The chain didn't specify when delivery might become available in the US, but included it as one of its top five markets - in addition to France, the UK, Germany and Canada - which could propel its delivery efforts.

The chain said almost 75 percent of people in these countries live less than three miles from a McDonald's, the chain said right after revealing its ambition to 'become the global leader in delivery'.

The chain, which has lost more than 500million customers since 2012, announced the shift in its growth plan Wednesday, also flaunting its soon-to-be-unveiled mobile ordering app.

McDonald's has announced plans to experiment further with delivery. The chain already offers the service in several countries, including China (pictured is a delivery man in Shanghai)

'No other food company in the world has this reach and ability to be this convenient to so many customers through delivery,' the company added in its release.

'Currently, McDonald's is experimenting with different delivery models including partnering with third parties for ordering and fulfillment throughout the world.'

Customers in several countries, including China, South Korea and Singapore, can already order from the Golden Arches. Delivery earns the chain $1billion annually.

The chain rolled out delivery services in China in 2008, and delivery sales have since tripled. Delivery business grew by 30 percent in China last year.

McDonald's revealed in December last year it would test delivery via UberEATS and mobile app ordering in Florida starting late January.

Meanwhile, the chain also revealed it will expand the use of its mobile app for ordering.

The chain rolled out delivery services in China in 2008, and delivery sales have since tripled. Pictured is a delivery man in Beijing

It plans to make mobile ordering and paying available in 20,000 restaurants across some of its largest markets, including the US, by the end of the year.

Customers who order through the app will be able to choose curbside delivery or to retrieve their orders at the drive-thru window, by reading a delivery code to the employee.

McDonald's admitted in its release it had lost customers to other quick-service restaurants, noting: 'As customers' expectations increased, McDonald's simply didn't keep pace with them.'

The company pledged to modernize 650 of its stores this year, offering kiosk ordering and even table service.