Ohio father overdoses in car with infant while mother overdoses at home with kids
Ohio couple overdoses simultaneously in front of kids 
Shares               An Ohio couple was arrested on child endangerment charges Tuesday after the husband and wife were discovered overdosed, according to police, in separate locations in the company of their children. Nathan Carroll, 29, was discovered by police in his car with an infant in the backseat after his car veered off the road, and Samantha Schigel, 24, was found in their home, also overdosed, in the presence of other children. Police in Lorain, about 30 miles west of Cleveland, said officers went to the couple's home to inform Schigel that they found Carroll overdosed, ABC News affiliate WEWS reported.       When they arrived, police said, a child answered the door and said that her "mommy was sleeping and they could not wake her up," according to WEWS. Not all the children in the home had the same parents. Police determined that Schigel was also experiencing a drug overdose.   Both parents were given naloxone, a heroin antidote, and were taken to Mercy Hospital in Lorain. When Schigel became responsive, she told police that she and Carroll had snorted a powder they believed to be heroin. According to a police report obtained by WEWS, she told police that it was her first time using the drug and that she did it to treat pain. Schigel was arrested on charges of endangering children, and Carroll was arrested for operating a vehicle under the influence, implied consent to test, endangering children, driving under suspension and failure to control, WEWS reported. After children's services was contacted, five of the children were released to their respective paternal grandfathers. It was unclear if Carroll and Schigel had attorneys. The couple's incident comes as overdose death rates across the country haven risen to historic highs amid an opioid crisis. In Ohio, more than 3,300 people died from accidental drug overdoses in 2015, up 21.5 percent from the previous year, according to the most recent data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Ohio is among the five states with the highest death rates linked to drug overdoses. Shares                  Ohio couple overdoses simultaneously in front of kids   ANALYSIS: Administration can't shake itself out of Russia pattern   Sessions used political funds for RNC convention expenses   Trump touts plans to bolster military aboard new aircraft carrier   Irish nationalists seek boost in Northern Ireland election   GOP, Dem foes of health care bill in scavenger hunt for copy   Briles says he didn't cover up sexual assaults at Baylor   Timeline of investigation into Kim Jong Nam's apparent assassination   US airstrikes conducted in Yemen overnight   Suspected gang member arrests related to Long Island teen murders   4-year-old wrestler runs away from competitor   Cat rescued from inside chimney: 'She was just happy to be out of there'   2-year-old with heart defect invited to senior prom   Photos mistakenly donated to Goodwill returned to owner   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Oregon lawmakers push to protect pot users' info from US   Iranian film hails demise of US Navy in imagined Gulf battle   Sweden institutes military draft for both men and women   Serbian presidential vote set for April 2; Vucic favored   Video purports to show deadly encounter between Georgia teen and deputies   Judge blocks release of Orlando nightclub gunman's widow   Police looking for man in connection with woman's fatal stabbing in Nashville   Tom Hanks sends new espresso machine to White House press corps   Beloved railroad seen in 'La La Land' chugging back to life   Accountants connected to Oscars mix-up will not work show again   Arnold Schwarzenegger reflects on affair, Twitter feud with Trump   Former NAACP leader Rachel Dolezal gets new African name   Jailing of officers shakes Baltimore criminal justice system   Jane Fonda reveals past rape and sexual abuse   Katie Holmes speaks out about giving daughter Suri a 'stable' childhood   What's new at the Epcot Flower and Garden Festival

An Ohio couple was arrested on child endangerment charges Tuesday after the husband and wife were discovered overdosed, according to police, in separate locations in the company of their children.

Nathan Carroll, 29, was discovered by police in his car with an infant in the backseat after his car veered off the road, and Samantha Schigel, 24, was found in their home, also overdosed, in the presence of other children.

Police in Lorain, about 30 miles west of Cleveland, said officers went to the couple's home to inform Schigel that they found Carroll overdosed, ABC News affiliate WEWS reported.

When they arrived, police said, a child answered the door and said that her "mommy was sleeping and they could not wake her up," according to WEWS.

Not all the children in the home had the same parents.

Police determined that Schigel was also experiencing a drug overdose.

Lorain Police Department

Both parents were given naloxone, a heroin antidote, and were taken to Mercy Hospital in Lorain.

When Schigel became responsive, she told police that she and Carroll had snorted a powder they believed to be heroin.

According to a police report obtained by WEWS, she told police that it was her first time using the drug and that she did it to treat pain.

Schigel was arrested on charges of endangering children, and Carroll was arrested for operating a vehicle under the influence, implied consent to test, endangering children, driving under suspension and failure to control, WEWS reported.

After children's services was contacted, five of the children were released to their respective paternal grandfathers.

It was unclear if Carroll and Schigel had attorneys.

The couple's incident comes as overdose death rates across the country haven risen to historic highs amid an opioid crisis.

In Ohio, more than 3,300 people died from accidental drug overdoses in 2015, up 21.5 percent from the previous year, according to the most recent data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Ohio is among the five states with the highest death rates linked to drug overdoses.