Corbyn team willing to take advice from Mandelson and Progress for sake of Labour unity, says McDonnell - Politics live

Afternoon summary In a pre-budget speech this morning he said: Based on estimates by the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy, the NHS and social care face a funding gap of between £8.5 and £15bn by 2020. Published figures indicate that tax receipts are currently higher than anticipated. Given that we’re facing an immediate crisis in the NHS and social care, I’m calling on the chancellor to use that money to address this NHS and social care emergency. Any measure less than this is likely to be inadequate. In his speech McDonnell did not directly put a figure on how much extra money should go to the NHS. But later, when asked what McDonnell meant by tax receipts being higher than expected, an aide cited a statement on the public sector finances published by the Office for Budget Responsibility last month (pdf) saying borrowing was £12bn below the November forecast. The OBR said: Ten months into the year, PSNB is already £13.6 billion lower than last year. As well as downward revisions to earlier months of 2016-17, this reflects stronger receipts growth in recent months than our full-year forecast of 4.3 per cent. Simply extrapolating this percentage change over the final two months of the year would imply full-year PSNB of £56.2 billion, a £12.0 billion bigger fall than required to meet our November forecast, with £1.6 billion of that reflecting the CT classification change. (See 1.26pm.) The Conservatives said that Labour policy was a “shambles” because only a few weeks ago Jeremy Corbyn indicated that he was opposed to using hypothecation for the NHS. (See 3.14pm.) (See 12.23pm.) According to the Lib Dems, this is the first time they have ever outperformed Labour in fundraising over a quarter. (See 10.15am.) He will give a speech on this tonight, but in extracts released in advance he says: Wherever I go across Europe, I hear concerns about the UK leaving without a deal and falling into World Trade Organisation rules. We should be under no illusions about what this would really mean. A ‘no deal’ scenario would open a Pandora’s Box of economic consequences. The UK would face tariffs on 90% of its EU exports by value and a raft of new regulatory hurdles. Let’s remember these barriers would hurt firms on both sides of the Channel. Here in the UK and across the continent firms are worried about this ‘worst-case scenario’. Some are getting ready for it to reduce economic damage. Some won’t prepare because they’re hoping for a deal. But in reality many firms can’t prepare because the cost of change is simply too high to even consider it. The prime minister is confident that a deal can be achieved - and we agree. But to those whose first and only choice is for Britain to walk away without a deal, I say you’re not only wrong but irresponsible. It has been sent to them by , a group campaigning for a “soft” Brexit, ahead of a vote next week on an amendment to the article 50 bill saying parliament should get a vote on the final Brexit deal. The advice (pdf), drafted by three QCs, Sir David Edward, Sir Francis Jacobs and Sir Jeremy Lever, says “actual withdrawal from the EU will need to be authorised by parliament in a future Act, once the outcome of the negotiations, and the impact on individual and business rights, is known.” Open Britain says it shows that, if the government does not accept the amendment, it could face another legal challenge over Brexit. As the Press Association reports, the Taser X2 is said to be more accurate and features a second cartridge for back-up if the first shot fails. That’s all from me for today. Thanks for the comments. Updated       Tories accuse Labour of being split over hypothecation for NHS In his speech this morning John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, proposed a move towards funding the NHS through hypothecation (taxes raised for specific spending purposes). See 1.26pm for the details. But the Conservatives are pointing out that ndicated only a few weeks ago that he was not in favour. In an interview with Andrew Marr (pdf) , Corbyn said he was prepared to consider the case for hypothecation for the NHS. But he also said: I am not one that’s generally in favour of hypothecated taxation ... If you go down the road of hypothecated taxation then you’re going to do hypothecated taxation for every other service. That’s an issue. A Conservative party spokesman said: Labour have today shown what a shambles they are – with the shadow chancellor suggesting a way of funding the NHS the Labour leader says won’t work.      Here are some election day photographs from Northern Ireland.      City minister has been stripped of responsibilities for overseeing Brexit’s impact on financial services, just months after being handed the portfolio, the Press Association report. Instead, those duties have been transferred to former Tesco executive , who was appointed commercial secretary to the Treasury in December.      Here is the Guardian’s Brexit Means ... podcast, with Jon Henley, Jane Golding and Jennifer Rankin discussing the issue of what happens to Britons living in other EU countries after Britain leaves the EU.      In an interview with the Times (paywall) published today, , the Scottish Conservative leader, refused to commit herself to saying Scotland should get responsibility for agriculture when powers are repatriated from Brussels. She suggested that Westminster could take responsibility instead. Here’s the key extract from her interview with Kenny Farquharson. Subsidies for Scottish farmers is shaping up to be a touchstone issue in these negotiations. At the moment responsibility for agriculture is wholly devolved to Holyrood ministers, but with Brussels exercising control of generous subsidies. After Brexit, who will exercise this power? Who will determine just how generous these subsidies should be? Who will decide who gets what? And, crucially, who will benefit from any savings made? Ms Davidson seems reluctant to give an assurance that the answer to each of these questions will be “Holyrood”. I ask her how it could be possible that Treasury power over Scottish agriculture subsidies would not be a contravention of the devolved settlement. As skilled politicians tend to do, she answers a different question altogether. “If Nicola Sturgeon wants to be in charge of raising the taxation to pay for farmers then that’s great — she needs to have that conversation,” says Ms Davidson. “I’m not sure the farmers are exactly excited about that at the moment.” She accepts, however, that the issue is a contentious one ... How you raise the cash for farmers is as big an issue as who gets to decide how it is distributed, she says. “For example, [on] help for farmers, is there a suggestion it’s going to be funded on a regional basis? So does it come out of the Scottish parliament’s budget and they have to levy additional taxation for that? “Or are we assuming that’s coming from the Treasury? If it does come from the Treasury are we talking about where it’s administrated?” During first minister’s questions in the Scottish parliament , Scotland’s first minister, said Davidson’s comments contained “two important revelations”. She told MSPs [Davidson] seems to suggest that in areas where Westminster currently has no power over Scotland at all, for example agriculture, they intend to use Brexit to seize such power - clear undermining of the devolution settlement if ever there was such a thing. On money, instead of Scotland getting its fair share of any savings that Westminster makes by no longer having to pay EU contributions, Ruth Davidson’s suggestion seems to be that the Treasury should keep all of that money and the Scottish government should be left to raise taxes in order to fund farm payments. That is absolutely outrageous and completely unacceptable. I hope that before the day is out the Tories will have clarified this and make sure that a) there will be no power grab and b) there will be no cash grab on the Scottish government by the Westminster government.      , the Brexit secretary, is in Denmark and has been speaking to journalists. According to the BBC’s Norman Smith, Davis said that getting a reciprocal deal on the rights of EU nationals in Britain and Britons in other EU countries would be the “first thing” on the government’s agenda when the Brexit talks started. But he stressed that this was not simple. David Davis says Govt tried to strike deal on EU nationals in December at EU council. EU nationals will be "the first thing on our agenda" in Brexit negotiations says David Davis Deal on EU nationals complex. "It’s not just aboutright to remain, it’s also about pensions, social support and health care" - David Davis      McDonnell proposes 10-year budgets, hypothecation and 'health OBR' to rescue NHS funding Here is the full text of s pre-budget speech. We previewed the shadow chancellor’s plan to make people publish their tax returns if they earn more than £1m a year here . And I set out what McDonnell said about Labour’s three priorities for the budget here. But the speech also contained some interesting proposals relating to NHS funding. Here are the key points. He said the Office for Budget Responsibility could do this job if the law was changed, but he suggested that a new body should be set up to do this job. The financing of the NHS has become excessively politicised to the point where even supposedly official figures are subject to dispute. There needs to be an independent adjudication of both needs, and actual provision, to restore public trust and confidence. The Office for Budget Responsibility has already taken steps to assess the levels of funding needed for the NHS in the longer term. I have written to Robert Chote to ask about the ability of the OBR to continue to provide these assessments, as part of its overall brief to monitor the government’s fiscal position. To change the OBR’s responsibilities and bring in permanent oversight on healthcare funding would require primary legislation from government. Fair and objective assessments of long-term need are required, along with close monitoring of actual spend being made. That’s a bigger task than ministers can provide. We need a political neutral body, modelled on the Office for Budget Responsibility, that can remove the question of long-term funding from the political squabbling. Only in this way can public confidence in the figures be restored – and essential spending correctly made. As Lord Macpherson [the former Treasury permanent secretary] and others have suggested, placing the NHS on a stable five-year financing basis means that certainty of funding can be assured. But we need to do more than tie funding down for the length of a parliament and look to ten-year budgets. (Hypothecation involves allocating tax revenue for a specific purpose.) McDonnell said: People need to know that the contribution they make will be spent properly. Hypothecation, allocating taxes raised to specific purposes, can make absolutely clear where tax money is being spent. It can help restore the trust and confidence in taxation and government spending that has otherwise started to break down. But hypothecation for the NHS has to be more than a commitment from a politician or a political party to spend a given amount, however firm that promise. It needs a clear commitment, over the long term, that specific taxes will be used for specific purposes, and that this spending will be properly monitored. This is also a plan that has been provisionally backed by , despite the Treasury’s traditional objection to hypothecation. In a submission to a Lords select committee inquiry into NHS funding published in November last year Macpherson said: I see considerable benefits in a fixed five year budget for health spending: indeed, it is arguable that that is the status quo, subject to the Government reintroducing “end year flexibility”. In my view, hypothecation merits further examination. Moving to “full hypothecation” of NICs to health spending would be challenging. But it is the only form of hypothecation which would give taxpayers complete assurance about where the national insurance they paid was going. It is the option most likely to legitimise a tax funded increase in health spending. You can read Macpherson’s written evidence to the committee in full here .      Heather Stewart Number 10 has reiterated this morning that the government has no intention of budging on the issue of EU citizens’ future status, despite its defeat in the House of Lords over the issue last night. At the morning lobby briefing, the prime minister’s spokesman said: I think it’s clear that we’re disappointed that the Lords have chosen to amend a bill that passed through the Commons without amendment; it’s a bill with a very simple purpose that’s just to enact the referendum result and allow the government to get on with the negotiations. He underlined the fact that Theresa May does not expect to have to make concessions to get the bill through, saying: “The prime minister has made clear her intention that the bill should be passed unamended.” Conservative rebels are unlikely to back the EU nationals amendment when the legislation passes back to the House of Commons later this month, and the bill will then pass back to the Lords, in a process known as “ping pong”. Asked about how the government would handle that eventuality, the spokesman said: “We’ll deal with next week as and when we’re confronted with the situation.” He added: The Lords has its own role to carry out, and it’s important that it carries that out. It’s right that they scrutinise legislation that’s passed up to them; I think we’ve seen a very healthy and vigorous debate in the Lords; but we’re very clear on our ambition that this bill be passed unamended.      Corbyn team now willing to take advice from Mandelson and Progress for sake of Labour unity, says McDonnell Here are the main points from John McDonnell’s Q&A. He said that he accepted that he was known for his “pugnacious approach”, but he said now it was important for Labour to unite, and for different groups to listen to each other. And, yes, that is holding out hands from my wing of the party, from Momentum we established, to those people in Progress. And, yes, Peter Mandelson . And having a constructive relationship for the future. He was particularly positive about Mandelson. He said he had recently listened to Mandelson’s speech in the article 50 debate in the House of Lords. (He did not say if it was Mandelson’s speech in the second reading debate , or his speech in the committee stage debate on Monday.) McDonnell said: It was an incredibly interesting speech. And after that I took the view that I would meet him and talk it through, because we need everyone’s advice on how we go forward, particularly on the Brexit negotiations. What he said was exactly the same as us; we need access to that single market. If we lose access to that single market, we’re already seeing that the threat of not getting access to that single market is influencing investment decisions ... So, yes I will be inviting him to come and have a cup of tea, and discuss issues around common concern etc. He said this offered an opportunity to Labour because it was united. I think what you will find is a united Labour party on a common agenda trying to get the best deal for Brexit for the country overall [and] the Tories ripping themselves apart. I cannot see Theresa May delivering some form of a deal that will satisfy Bill Cash, George Osborne and Anna Soubry. Jones set out his proposal in this column . McDonnell rejected the idea, although he said Labour was following Jones’ advice on the need to develop radical policies and sell them to voters. McDonnell said: So, thank you Owen for your advice, we are following part of it. McDonnell also said Jones had rejected an invitation to offer advice to the party on a more formal basis. I’ve invited Owen in on a regular basis to come along and advise us but obviously he wants to maintain his independence as a journalist and I respect that. Updated       McDonnell says Labour wants to use the national investment bank to help small businesses. On banks, the party has a review going on looking at governance in the public sector. Those discussions are continuing. There is a report coming on the national investment bank, and then later another on corporate governance. And that’s it. The Q&A is over. I’ll post a summary soon.      McDonnell says he gave a speech about investment in new technology because the government cut £1bn from science investment. He says this investment is vital if we are to create skilled jobs. He says new technology should be used to improve public services. But that needs investment. Managers want to do this, but do not get the investment they need. He says he called it “socialism with an iPad”. He wishes he had not, now, because it sounded a bit glib. But new technology is where we need to go. He says the Labour party is interested in platform co-ops. It is trying to introduce more digital democracy. The party will try to use this to enable members to contribute to policy. That is really exciting. If Labour is a social movement, it needs to use new tools, he says.      McDonnell says he would like to restore sectoral pay bargaining. But we need a real living wage. He says George Osborne’s “national living wage” is no such thing. When you meet people, you discover how low wages are. Last year food banks gave out food 1m times. That is scandalous, he says. Parents are choosing who eats in a family. That is unacceptable.  Politics   Politics live with Andrew Sparrow   Labour   Budget   Article 50   Peter Mandelson   NHS

12:36

Number 10 has reiterated this morning that the government has no intention of budging on the issue of EU citizens’ future status, despite its defeat in the House of Lords over the issue last night.

At the morning lobby briefing, the prime minister’s spokesman said:

I think it’s clear that we’re disappointed that the Lords have chosen to amend a bill that passed through the Commons without amendment; it’s a bill with a very simple purpose that’s just to enact the referendum result and allow the government to get on with the negotiations.

He underlined the fact that Theresa May does not expect to have to make concessions to get the bill through, saying: “The prime minister has made clear her intention that the bill should be passed unamended.”

Conservative rebels are unlikely to back the EU nationals amendment when the legislation passes back to the House of Commons later this month, and the bill will then pass back to the Lords, in a process known as “ping pong”.

Asked about how the government would handle that eventuality, the spokesman said: “We’ll deal with next week as and when we’re confronted with the situation.” He added: