Kolkata McDonald's Outlet Serves Pregnant Woman French Fries With A Deep-Fried Lizard!
Kolkata McDonald's Outlet Serves Pregnant Woman French Fries With A Deep-Fried Lizard!
Kolkata McDonald's Outlet Serves Pregnant Woman French Fries With A Deep-Fried Lizard! A family's outing for fast food turned into one of horror, when they found a deep-fried lizard in a serving of fries at a McDonald's outlet in the city. On Tuesday morning, Priyanka Moitra, a resident of Kolkata, took her daughter to the McDonald's outlet near EM ByPass. They ordered a french fries and while tucking into her fries, the daughter discovered the deep-fried lizard. At the sight of the dead reptile, Priyanka, who is pregnant, became sick. Worried about her baby and daughter, she reported the incident to the manager. "When I told the outlet manager about the incident, he showed a careless attitude and left with just a sorry," Priyanka said. She then took a picture of the deep-fried lizard in the food and filed an FIR at the Phulbagan police station against the McDonald's outlet. Priyanka's husband Sanjay Mitra, who is currently in Lucknow, said, "I'm shocked! I'm concerned about my family's health. My wife is pregnant. How can McDonald's be so careless? As soon as I heard about the incident, I contacted Delhi and Kolkata's McDonald's office, but they didn't bother. There's been no apology, they just want us to send it to them for analysis." Raja Mani, a McDonald's official from Delhi, said, "A customer allegedly found a foreign body in their food. We take all reports of this nature very seriously and investigate them thoroughly."

A family's outing for fast food turned into one of horror, when they found a deep-fried lizard in a serving of fries at a McDonald's outlet in the city.

On Tuesday morning, Priyanka Moitra, a resident of Kolkata, took her daughter to the McDonald's outlet near EM ByPass. They ordered a french fries and while tucking into her fries, the daughter discovered the deep-fried lizard.

FOX2now/Representational Image

At the sight of the dead reptile, Priyanka, who is pregnant, became sick. Worried about her baby and daughter, she reported the incident to the manager.

"When I told the outlet manager about the incident, he showed a careless attitude and left with just a sorry," Priyanka said.

She then took a picture of the deep-fried lizard in the food and filed an FIR at the Phulbagan police station against the McDonald's outlet.

TOI

Priyanka's husband Sanjay Mitra, who is currently in Lucknow, said, "I'm shocked! I'm concerned about my family's health. My wife is pregnant. How can McDonald's be so careless? As soon as I heard about the incident, I contacted Delhi and Kolkata's McDonald's office, but they didn't bother. There's been no apology, they just want us to send it to them for analysis."

Raja Mani, a McDonald's official from Delhi, said, "A customer allegedly found a foreign body in their food. We take all reports of this nature very seriously and investigate them thoroughly."

Originally published in Times of India

Don't Miss 24.6 K SHARES 9.5 K SHARES 29.6 K SHARES 13.8 K SHARES 4.6 K SHARES