Jason Collins, John Amaechi fire back at homophobic comments from Amar’e Stoudemire
Jason Collins, John Amaechi fire back at homophobic comments from Amar’e Stoudemire
If he thought it was a joke, it wasn’t funny. Former NBA star Amar’e Stoudemire, now playing in Israel, said this to a reporter to a question about a potential gay teammate . Was he joking? That is not a joke, it’s homophobic. It’s sad. It’s also the height of arrogance to assume a gay teammate would be interested in someone so narrow-minded and backwards. Jason Collins played 13 NBA seasons, was about as respected a teammate as you could find in the league, and he came out publicly as a gay man near the end of that run. He tweeted this. Very sad & troubling to think that @Amareisreal was just given this award. His homophobic comments have no place in sport or in our society. https://t.co/A81sTzItOi — Jason Collins (@jasoncollins98) March 1, 2017 Former NBA player John Amaechi, who came out after his playing days, was far more direct. THIS is what I think of Amar'e Stoudemire. #RoleModelFail  @espn  @LeBatardShow  pic.twitter.com/43KuuJ27WL — John Amaechi OBE (@JohnAmaechi) March 1, 2017 Good on Collins and Amaechi, these kinds of comments need to be met head on, they are simply unacceptable. Scroll Down For: The Phoenix Suns were 20th in the NBA in field goal percentage, making 45 percent of their shots on the season. On Thursday night, they got hot. Marquese Chriss scored 17 points and the Suns shot a season-best 59.7 percent in a 120-103 victory over the Charlotte Hornets. Chriss made 6 of 9 shots and missed roughly a full quarter after straining a calf early in the first period. T.J. Warren added 16 points and eight rebounds, and Alan Williams had 16 points and 12 rebounds, including a layup with 2:46 to play that made it 114-99. The Suns held the Hornets to 12 points in the fourth quarter and got 53 points from their bench. Phoenix made 39 of 58 two-point shots (67 percent). “Our second unit played phenomenal,” coach Earl Watson said. “We’ve got to play consistent like that. Moving the ball, screening away,” Suns guard Eric Bledsoe said. Leandro Barbosa also had 16 points, and Devin Booker had 15 points, nine assists and six rebounds. The Suns are 8-4 against Eastern Conference teams at home this season. Kemba Walker led Charlotte with 26 points. “We never got them under control. Penetration, transition, we let them play to their strengths,” Hornets coach Steve Clifford said. The Suns lost their halftime lead briefly early in the third quarter, but went on an 11-0 run that featured Chriss’ corner 3 to take an 80-70 lead with 7:15 to play. Phoenix led by as many as 12 points in the third, but the Hornets whittled the deficit to 87-85 on Walker’s 3-pointer at the 2:53 mark. The Suns led 94-91 entering the fourth after Marvin Williams was fouled by Booker with 0.4 seconds left and made three free throws. Warren scored 12 points in the third quarter. Michael Kidd-Gilchrist ‘s six steals were a career high for the Hornets forward. The Suns trailed by as many as 10 points in the first quarter but cut the Hornets’ lead to four by the time it ended. Williams had 13 points in the quarter for Charlotte. After being behind for much of the first half, Phoenix took a 52-50 lead with Barbosa’s short bank shot with 3:22 left in the second quarter. Barbosa scored 10 points in the quarter after not playing in the first. Walker had 18 first-half points for the Hornets, who trailed 61-58 at halftime after Phoenix made 13 of 19 shots in the second quarter. “We just play in spurts,” Walker said. “We’re not making those effort plays that need to be made out there, which is getting back in transition.” TIP-INS Hornets: It took 61 games, but the Hornets finally played the Suns this season and will host them later this month. “It’s extra film work, little bit extra preparation,” Clifford said. … C Miles Plumlee missed his sixth straight game with a right calf strain. Suns: Radio broadcaster Al McCoy will be inducted into the team’s Ring of Honor during a halftime ceremony Friday night when the Suns host Oklahoma City. McCoy has called games for 44 seasons. … The Suns played at home for the first time since Feb. 15. The All-Star break and three road games filled the schedule since then. KAMINSKY INJURED Hornets center Frank Kaminsky took a blow to his upper left arm colliding with Alan Williams in the fourth quarter and was taken to the locker room. He did not return and finished with 16 points. No update was given on Kaminsky’s condition but he had a wrap over his left shoulder after the game. TWO TAKEOFFS FOR `AIRPLANE MODE’ Derrick Jones Jr. , the runner-up in the NBA dunk contest at All-Star Weekend, took flight early in the fourth quarter with a jam off an alley-oop pass from Tyler Ulis . A few minutes later, the pair connected again for another lob that Jones, nicknamed “Airplane Mode,” threw down with his left hand. It gave the Suns a 105-97 lead with 7:43 to play. GAME CHANGER Ulis had eight points and a career-high eight assists in 23 minutes, the rookie from Kentucky earning praise from his coach. “Tyler Ulis changed the game,” Watson said, noting his defensive pressure and hustle to tire out Charlotte’s guards.   Jimmy Butler scored 22 points and the Chicago Bulls beat Golden State 94-87 on Thursday night in the Warriors’ first game since Kevin Durant injured his left leg. Golden State was breathing a little easier after learning Durant probably will play again this season. He was hurt two nights earlier in a loss at Washington. The NBA-leading Warriors’ league-record regular-season streak without consecutive losses ended at 146 games. Stephen Curry scored 23 points, and Klay Thompson finished with 13. The star guards combined to hit just 3 of 22 3-pointers, and the Warriors made it back-to-back losses for the first time since April 2015. Bobby Portis added 17 points and a season-high 13 rebounds for Chicago. The Bulls outscored Golden State 10-2 over the final three minutes to wipe out a one-point deficit and come away with their fifth win in six games. It feels strange to type the words “Oklahoma City’s Taj Gibson ,” but here we are. Oklahoma City’s Gibson came up with a loose ball and threw up a baseball-style, three-quarters court, high-arcing prayer as time was running out in the first half, and he drained it. It put OKC up three against Portland heading into halftime. Defense in space is not on the Stephen Curry strength list. He’s not as bad as some critics want to make him out to be, but it’s not his forte. The Bulls’ Jerian Grant exposed that with a crossover and three that’s going to be on a lot of highlight packages Thursday night. The Bulls and Warriors were playing a tight game through three quarters. Chicago was making plays like this to stay in it.

Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)

PHOENIX (AP) — The Phoenix Suns were 20th in the NBA in field goal percentage, making 45 percent of their shots on the season.

On Thursday night, they got hot.

Marquese Chriss scored 17 points and the Suns shot a season-best 59.7 percent in a 120-103 victory over the Charlotte Hornets.

Chriss made 6 of 9 shots and missed roughly a full quarter after straining a calf early in the first period.

T.J. Warren added 16 points and eight rebounds, and Alan Williams had 16 points and 12 rebounds, including a layup with 2:46 to play that made it 114-99.

The Suns held the Hornets to 12 points in the fourth quarter and got 53 points from their bench. Phoenix made 39 of 58 two-point shots (67 percent).

“Our second unit played phenomenal,” coach Earl Watson said.

“We’ve got to play consistent like that. Moving the ball, screening away,” Suns guard Eric Bledsoe said.

Leandro Barbosa also had 16 points, and Devin Booker had 15 points, nine assists and six rebounds. The Suns are 8-4 against Eastern Conference teams at home this season.

Kemba Walker led Charlotte with 26 points.

“We never got them under control. Penetration, transition, we let them play to their strengths,” Hornets coach Steve Clifford said.

The Suns lost their halftime lead briefly early in the third quarter, but went on an 11-0 run that featured Chriss’ corner 3 to take an 80-70 lead with 7:15 to play.

Phoenix led by as many as 12 points in the third, but the Hornets whittled the deficit to 87-85 on Walker’s 3-pointer at the 2:53 mark.

The Suns led 94-91 entering the fourth after Marvin Williams was fouled by Booker with 0.4 seconds left and made three free throws.

Warren scored 12 points in the third quarter.

Michael Kidd-Gilchrist‘s six steals were a career high for the Hornets forward.

The Suns trailed by as many as 10 points in the first quarter but cut the Hornets’ lead to four by the time it ended. Williams had 13 points in the quarter for Charlotte.

After being behind for much of the first half, Phoenix took a 52-50 lead with Barbosa’s short bank shot with 3:22 left in the second quarter. Barbosa scored 10 points in the quarter after not playing in the first.

Walker had 18 first-half points for the Hornets, who trailed 61-58 at halftime after Phoenix made 13 of 19 shots in the second quarter.

“We just play in spurts,” Walker said. “We’re not making those effort plays that need to be made out there, which is getting back in transition.”

TIP-INS

Hornets: It took 61 games, but the Hornets finally played the Suns this season and will host them later this month. “It’s extra film work, little bit extra preparation,” Clifford said. … C Miles Plumlee missed his sixth straight game with a right calf strain.

Suns: Radio broadcaster Al McCoy will be inducted into the team’s Ring of Honor during a halftime ceremony Friday night when the Suns host Oklahoma City. McCoy has called games for 44 seasons. … The Suns played at home for the first time since Feb. 15. The All-Star break and three road games filled the schedule since then.

KAMINSKY INJURED

Hornets center Frank Kaminsky took a blow to his upper left arm colliding with Alan Williams in the fourth quarter and was taken to the locker room. He did not return and finished with 16 points. No update was given on Kaminsky’s condition but he had a wrap over his left shoulder after the game.

TWO TAKEOFFS FOR `AIRPLANE MODE’

Derrick Jones Jr., the runner-up in the NBA dunk contest at All-Star Weekend, took flight early in the fourth quarter with a jam off an alley-oop pass from Tyler Ulis. A few minutes later, the pair connected again for another lob that Jones, nicknamed “Airplane Mode,” threw down with his left hand. It gave the Suns a 105-97 lead with 7:43 to play.

GAME CHANGER

Ulis had eight points and a career-high eight assists in 23 minutes, the rookie from Kentucky earning praise from his coach. “Tyler Ulis changed the game,” Watson said, noting his defensive pressure and hustle to tire out Charlotte’s guards.