China's Great Balance Sheet Play
There's More Equity in China, But a Lot of It's Debt
China's Great Balance Sheet Play   Markets  Christopher Langner is a markets columnist for Bloomberg Gadfly. He previously covered corporate finance for Bloomberg News, and has written for Reuters/IFR, Forbes, the Wall Street Journal and Mergermarket.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  China's debt problems are old news, but several analysts in Asia have been telling me that the world is ignoring the amount of equity that's been added to balance sheets of late. It's true -- if only it were that simple. A string of share offerings, asset disposals and sales of bonds that convert into equity has pushed the median debt-to-equity ratio of publicly traded Chinese companies to the lowest level in almost a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Before you celebrate, however, look a bit more deeply into the numbers. Much of the stuff that has been viewed as equity could be seen as debt, too. Issuance of convertible bonds, which pay fixed coupons and may be transformed into shares at a certain level, increased last year after a pause from a record streak in 2013 and 2014. While those securities sit further down the line for payment if a company is liquidated, they still require regular payments and therefore increase gearing. Also underlying the improvement are preferred stock or perpetual bonds, which accountants and banks consider equity. Those securities, however, also pay fixed yearly amounts and thus add to gearing. Some varieties have clauses that could force the issuer to redeem them in a few years, just like a normal debt security. And never before have Chinese companies had so much of those out there. The result has been that the ratio of debt to equity, a measure that shows what really is left for shareholders after all creditors are paid, remains very high -- even though it has dropped from the peak reached in 2014. But that measure only considers traditional borrowings. If preferred stock is added to debt and divided by common equity, things look a lot more worrying: There's on average $1.65 in obligations that pay fixed coupons for every $1 of shares in Chinese companies. So, yes, China's listed companies are aware of their debt problem and are doing something about it. As with many other things in China, though, they're adorning the issue instead of addressing it. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at clangner@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at psillitoe@bloomberg.net Amount of potential food buyout targets is nearly Sausage Roll-Up  Europe's Food Buyout Boom Can Finally Start   Consumer  Value of shares sold Bailing Out  Buyout Firms Head for the Exit   Deals  Number of listed energy companies in India bigger gorillas  India's PetroChina Envy Has Only One Problem   Energy  PropertyGuru's 2015 fundraising Start me up  Profit Is for Gurus   Tech  Learning Curve best in class  China's Private Schools Get a Gold Star   Deals  Combo Boost Gimme Shelter  Roche's New Drugs May Protect its Old Ones   Health  Out of Style Surf's Up  The Case For A Hollister Spinoff   Consumer  What the Latest Gas Numbers Were Gloves Come Off  Gas Bulls: Have You Looked Outside?   Energy  Honeywell's New Favorite Word Tipping Point  Honeywell's Balancing Act   Industrials  Sports Direct shares fall over the last 12 months Agent Provocateur  The Tracksuit Billionaire's Lingerie Bet   Consumer  Trump Bump It's Complicated  Trump Bump Is No Stump Jump   Markets  Stock's gain since February 2016 Franco-Swiss Alliance  A Cement Deal Starts to Set   Industrials  What Exxon Plans to Spend on Shale This Year Shale Whale  Exxon Will Remake Shale Or Shale Will Remake Exxon   Energy  Stinging Discounts Irresistible Force  The Asset-Management Pressure Cooker   Finance  Losing Its Fizz Slash and Brew  Megabrew Needs Megavolumes   Consumer  Speed Race Hit a six  Bet Bigger, Ambani   Tech  Gilts Take an Unexpected Low Road Curiously Strong  Gilts Are Due an Unfriending   Markets  Not Keeping Pace Follow the Leader  Snapchat's IPO Aids Other Overheated Startups   Tech  Tasty Returns Better Late Than Never  McDonald's Is Smart to Copy Starbucks   Consumer  Alere's 10-K Release Date Surprise!  Alere's Bad News Tests the Limits of Patience   Deals   Clear As Mud  Trump Speech Leaves Health Care a Big Mess   Health  Stabilizing On Deadline  Trending Now With Buyers: Time Inc.   Deals  Sabadell's market value Sad!  Saying Adios to the Trump Trade   Finance  Amount of ITV revenue from advertising Ad spending  ITV Swats the Short-Sellers   Media

China's debt problems are old news, but several analysts in Asia have been telling me that the world is ignoring the amount of equity that's been added to balance sheets of late. It's true -- if only it were that simple.

A string of share offerings, asset disposals and sales of bonds that convert into equity has pushed the median debt-to-equity ratio of publicly traded Chinese companies to the lowest level in almost a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Gearing Down? The median Chinese listed company ended last year with the lowest debt-to-equity ratio in almost a decade Source: Bloomberg

Before you celebrate, however, look a bit more deeply into the numbers. Much of the stuff that has been viewed as equity could be seen as debt, too. Issuance of convertible bonds, which pay fixed coupons and may be transformed into shares at a certain level, increased last year after a pause from a record streak in 2013 and 2014. While those securities sit further down the line for payment if a company is liquidated, they still require regular payments and therefore increase gearing.

Kind of Equity After dropping in 2015, issuance of bonds that may be converted into shares picked up last year Source: Bloomberg

Also underlying the improvement are preferred stock or perpetual bonds, which accountants and banks consider equity. Those securities, however, also pay fixed yearly amounts and thus add to gearing. Some varieties have clauses that could force the issuer to redeem them in a few years, just like a normal debt security. And never before have Chinese companies had so much of those out there.

Debt Stock In five years, the amount of preferred shares sold by the 4,382 listed Chinese companies increased more than 36 times Source: Bloomberg

The result has been that the ratio of debt to common equity, a measure that shows what really is left for shareholders after all creditors are paid, remains very high -- even though it has dropped from the peak reached in 2014.

Mortgaged Up On average, Chinese listed companies have more debt than equity Source: Bloomberg

But that measure only considers traditional borrowings. If preferred stock is added to debt and divided by common equity, things look a lot more worrying: There's on average $1.65 in obligations that pay fixed coupons for every $1 of shares in Chinese companies.

Real Picture The average listed Chinese company owes $1.65 for every dollar of shares outstanding Source: Bloomberg

So, yes, China's listed companies are aware of their debt problem and are doing something about it. As with many other things in China, though, they're adorning the issue instead of addressing it.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Christopher Langner in Singapore at clangner@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Paul Sillitoe at psillitoe@bloomberg.net