Investigators Probed Jeff Sessions’ Contacts With Russian Officials
Investigators probed Sessions’ contacts with Russian officials during election campaign
Biography Carol E. Lee @CarolELee carol.lee@wsj.com Biography Christopher S. Stewart @csstewart Christopher.Stewart@wsj.com Biography Rob Barry @rob_barry Rob.Barry@wsj.com Biography Shane Harris @shaneharris WASHINGTON—U.S. investigators have examined contacts Attorney General Jeff Sessions had with Russian officials during the time he was advising Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, according to people familiar with the matter. The outcome of the inquiry, and whether it is ongoing, wasn’t clear, these people said. The contacts were being examined as part of a wide-ranging U.S. counterintelligence investigation into possible... Most Popular Videos  Mount Etna Eruption: Skiers Chase Smoldering Boulder  Land Rover Performs ‘The Hatch Trick’  Uber CEO Caught on Video Berating Company Driver   Could Google's YouTube TV Crack the TV Ad Market?    High-End Homes Include High-Tech Security Systems  Most Popular Articles      Jeff Sessions Used Political Funds for Republican Convention Travel        Donald Trump Jr. Was Likely Paid at Least $50,000 for Event Held by Hosts Allied With Russia on Syria        U.S. Reviews North Korea Options, Including Force        Investigators Probed Sessions’ Contacts With Russian Officials        EU Parliament Calls to End Visa-Free Travel for U.S. Citizens

Attorney General Jeff Sessions is the latest member of President Donald Trump's team to come under scrutiny for alleged contact with Russian officials during Mr. Trump's presidential campaign.

WASHINGTON—U.S. investigators have examined contacts Attorney General Jeff Sessions had with Russian officials during the time he was advising Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, according to people familiar with the matter.

The outcome of the inquiry, and whether it is ongoing, wasn’t clear, these people said. The contacts were being examined as part of a wide-ranging U.S. counterintelligence investigation into possible...