Twins Dominate 'Superhero Day,' Dress As RBG And Sandra Day O'Connor
Twins Dominate 'Superhero Day,' Dress As RBG And Sandra Day O'Connor
On “Superhero Day,” two 4-year-olds in Indiana showed their preschool you don’t have to wear a cape to be a hero. A Supreme Court robe will do just fine. Candice Wilkins helped her twins, Ruby and Cora, dress as Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and retired Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor for their preschool’s “Superhero Day” and shared a photo of them in the Facebook group Pantsuit Nation . Wilkins, a high school government and social studies teacher, told The Huffington Post she began teaching her daughters about their country’s government at an early age. They don’t fully understand the concept of the Supreme Court, but they know about Ginsburg and O’Connor. Wilkins mentioned how the women have made their mark on the world, which intrigued her daughters. “I explained to them that it was ‘Superhero Day’ at school and these women were heroes because they changed the world with their brain, not by wearing a fictional cape and tights,” Wilkins said. “They were then excited to wear the costumes after that! I’ve had a few negative comments that this wasn’t ‘fun’ for them, but it was. They learned about someone new and when you’re 4 and you get to wear anything but your ‘normal’ clothes to school, it’s fun! They had a blast.” To make the girls’ costumes, Wilkins got creative. She purchased everything at the Dollar Tree, including the black tablecloths that she turned into robes. Ruby’s collar for her RBG outfit was made out of a cut-up doily, while Cora’s collar for her take on O’Connor was cut from an undergarment laundry bag. Wilkins also bought glasses and popped the lenses out to complete the Ginsburg look. In December, 8-year-old Michele Threefoot also dressed up as Ginsburg for her school’s “Superhero Day” because she admired her passion for fighting inequality, especially relating to women and girls. Wilkins echoed the girl’s feelings and told HuffPost she appreciates Ginsburg’s ideology and “her spunk and sassiness.” She admires O’Connor for being the first female Supreme Court Justice and a pioneer for women in law. “They are both heroes to me,” Wilkins said. Wilkins told HuffPost she is a “huge supporter of women.” The twins’ dad died in an accident when they were 3 months old, and as a single mom, Wilkins is teaching them to be strong women who can make their mark, just like Ginsburg and O’Connor. “I want to raise them to be smart, strong women and worry more about shattering glass ceilings instead of fitting into glass slippers,” she said. “I tell them all the time that they are smart and beautiful and they have the power to change the world.” ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

On “Superhero Day,” two 4-year-olds in Indiana showed their preschool you don’t have to wear a cape to be a hero. A Supreme Court robe will do just fine.

Candice Wilkins helped her twins, Ruby and Cora, dress as Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and retired Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor for their preschool’s “Superhero Day” and shared a photo of them in the Facebook group Pantsuit Nation. Wilkins, a high school government and social studies teacher, told The Huffington Post she began teaching her daughters about their country’s government at an early age. They don’t fully understand the concept of the Supreme Court, but they know about Ginsburg and O’Connor. Wilkins mentioned how the women have made their mark on the world, which intrigued her daughters.

“I explained to them that it was ‘Superhero Day’ at school and these women were heroes because they changed the world with their brain, not by wearing a fictional cape and tights,” Wilkins said. “They were then excited to wear the costumes after that! I’ve had a few negative comments that this wasn’t ‘fun’ for them, but it was. They learned about someone new and when you’re 4 and you get to wear anything but your ‘normal’ clothes to school, it’s fun! They had a blast.”

Candice Wilkins Candice Wilkins' twins, Ruby and Cora, dressed as Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and retired Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor for "Superhero Day" at school.

To make the girls’ costumes, Wilkins got creative. She purchased everything at the Dollar Tree, including the black tablecloths that she turned into robes. Ruby’s collar for her RBG outfit was made out of a cut-up doily, while Cora’s collar for her take on O’Connor was cut from an undergarment laundry bag. Wilkins also bought glasses and popped the lenses out to complete the Ginsburg look.

In December, 8-year-old Michele Threefoot also dressed up as Ginsburg for her school’s “Superhero Day” because she admired her passion for fighting inequality, especially relating to women and girls. Wilkins echoed the girl’s feelings and told HuffPost she appreciates Ginsburg’s ideology and “her spunk and sassiness.” She admires O’Connor for being the first female Supreme Court Justice and a pioneer for women in law.

“They are both heroes to me,” Wilkins said.

Wilkins told HuffPost she is a “huge supporter of women.” The twins’ dad died in an accident when they were 3 months old, and as a single mom, Wilkins is teaching them to be strong women who can make their mark, just like Ginsburg and O’Connor.

“I want to raise them to be smart, strong women and worry more about shattering glass ceilings instead of fitting into glass slippers,” she said. “I tell them all the time that they are smart and beautiful and they have the power to change the world.”