Indian woman suffers acid attack while on the train
Indian woman suffers acid attack while on the train


A beautician in India has been left with burns to her face and body after a man attacked her with acid on her way home from work.

Tandra Makal, 26, a beautician, from Kolkata, eastern India, has suffered acid burns to her face, her lower arms and her thighs.

Her wounds have been dressed daily since she was admitted to a government hospital over two weeks ago but Tandra fears she will be scarred for life and unable to continue her work.

Tandra Makal, pictured, suffered acid burns to her face, lower arms and her thighs

The beautician, from Kolkata, eastern India fears she will never be able to return to work

Last month, a man climbed onto the side of the train she was on and threw acid on her

Tandra said from her hospital bed: ‘I want this man caught and executed so that no other man dares attack a woman’s life like this again.’

Last month, on February 13, Tandra was on the train traveling from Baruipur railway station to Kalyanpur after work when a man wearing a black mask climbed up onto the side of the train and attacked her with acid.

In shock Tandra screamed and ran around the carriage in pain but it took a while before the train driver was informed and medical aid was given.

Other people sitting beside Tandra were also burnt by the acid. As soon as the train was at a standstill Tandra and other victims were taken to a local government hospital.

Tandra said: ‘Í didn’t see his face as it was covered with black cloth but my family know it was one of our neighbours.’

Tandra’s family are embroiled in a dispute over a plot of land and they claim the neighbours have threatened them many times in the past.

Makal is being treated for her extensive injuries at the Medical College in Kolkata

She suffered terrible injuries after the man, thought to be a real estate developer attacked her

Ms Makal's family are calling for the death penalty for the man that attacked their daughter

‘The attacker used me as a commodity,’ Tandra added. ‘He was willing to ruin my life for his own personal gain. I’m a mother, I have a baby, who would take care of my baby if I had died? I want my attacker to be publically punished.’

Tandra, who earns Rs 4,000 (£40) a month in a salon, has been married for seven years but since separating from her husband last year she and her son have been back at home staying with her family and consequently have been caught up in the land dispute.

The family have since reported the incident and police have arrested the suspect, Swarup Halder, a local real estate developer.

Officer Krishna Gopal Malakar, from the Government Railway Police Station, in Baruipur, said: ‘We have registered the case against the accused. He has been harassing the family for the property of land and tried every possible way to harm them.

‘We have arrested him under sections 326 A (punishment for acid throwing), 307 (attempt to murder), 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.’

Tandra will not rest until her attacker is punished.

She added: ‘I never thought I’d be attacked with acid in my life time. Now it’s happened I am just in shock. How can I return to work like this? I’m angry. This man has ruined my face and life forever.’