This Facebook message prank is a genius way to troll your friends
This Facebook message prank is a genius way to troll your friends 
aiting hours for a person to reply to a message can be extremely frustrating, but you can now get your own back on them with this new 'infinite typing' app. Facebook users can lightly troll any friends who are particularly slow to respond with the Godotify app, which makes it seem like you are taking an eternity to reply to a message. hose annoying three little dots that appear when a person is typing will be visible whenever a person attempts to contact you on the Messenger app; tricking them into thinking you are also writing a message. Godotify is available to download for Mac OS X and Windows users, with the only point of it being to: “Make everyone who messages you wait... forever.” For @stupidhackathon , made an app that shows the typing indicator to anyone messaging you, forever. Collab w @isiain  https://t.co/o485JYPm10  pic.twitter.com/fBrdGVm0L1 t will even monitor exactly how long your friends have been agonisingly waiting for you to respond and also send you a notification when a new person attempts to start a chat with you. The fun app was created by software engineers Anastasis Germanidis and Iain Nash for The Stupid Hackathon , an event where participants “create projects that have no value whatsoever”, notes The Next Web . ther ideas put forward for the pointless hackathon include a Beer Selfie Stick, which pours beer on you while taking a selfie, and Eyeball Pong, a pong game which involves users trying not to look at a moving object. The Facebook chat joke is similar to an iPhone iMessage prank which was widely shared on social media a few years ago and involved sending an infinite text-in-progress GIF to friends. n other Facebook news, here’s a very simple way to see all the people who have ever rejected you on the social network. And here are 7 amazing Facebook 'secrets' you probably didn’t know about .

Waiting hours for a person to reply to a message can be extremely frustrating, but you can now get your own back on them with this new 'infinite typing' app.

Facebook users can lightly troll any friends who are particularly slow to respond with the Godotify app, which makes it seem like you are taking an eternity to reply to a message.