Watch the Eerie New Trailer for Selena Gomez-Produced Netflix Series '13 Reasons Why'
Watch the Eerie New Trailer for Selena Gomez-Produced Netflix Series '13 Reasons Why'
Watch the Eerie New Trailer for Selena Gomez-Produced Netflix Series '13 Reasons Why'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Four weeks ahead of the March 31 release of the Selena Gomez -produced Netflix showÂ , a new trailer forÂ the compelling TV show has been released. The series -- which Gomez and her mom, Mandy Teefey,Â co-produced and is based off the Jay Asher book of the same name -- centers around the suicide of Hannah Baker, who leaves 13 cassette tapes to explain why she took her own life. TheÂ 2-minute trailerÂ showsÂ the initial discovery of the tapes, giving a glimpse at the people who Hannah claims as one of the reasons for her suicide.  "They're afraid of the truth," reads text as the trailer continues, "They should be."Â Adding to the haunting nature of the show, Ruelle'sÂ eerie tune "Game of Survival" soundtracks the trailer. By the looks of it,Â this showÂ will be as intense as it is heartbreaking. Watch the newÂ trailer below. Along with Gomez and Teefey,Â Joy Gorman, Brian Yorkey, Kristel Laiblin, Tom McCarthy,Â Steve Golin and Michael Sugar are executive producers forÂ . The first episode premieres on Netflix March 31.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Four weeks ahead of the March 31 release of the Selena Gomez-produced Netflix showÂ 13 Reasons Why, a new trailer forÂ the compelling TV show has been released.

The series -- which Gomez and her mom, Mandy Teefey,Â co-produced and is based off the Jay Asher book of the same name -- centers around the suicide of Hannah Baker, who leaves 13 cassette tapes to explain why she took her own life. TheÂ 2-minute trailerÂ showsÂ the initial discovery of the tapes, giving a glimpse at the people who Hannah claims as one of the reasons for her suicide.

"They're afraid of the truth," reads text as the trailer continues, "They should be."Â Adding to the haunting nature of the show, Ruelle'sÂ eerie tune "Game of Survival" soundtracks the trailer. By the looks of it,Â this showÂ will be as intense as it is heartbreaking.

Watch the newÂ 13 Reasons WhyÂ trailer below.

Along with Gomez and Teefey,Â Joy Gorman, Brian Yorkey, Kristel Laiblin, Tom McCarthy,Â Steve Golin and Michael Sugar are executive producers forÂ 13 Reasons Why. The first episode premieres on Netflix March 31.