People are fighting over the gender of Garfield... A cartoon cat
People are fighting over the gender of Garfield... A cartoon cat
People are arguing over whether the cartoon cat Garfield is a girl cat or a boy cat or an undefinable cat. Garfield’s creator, Jim Davis, was interviewed by two years ago. In the interview, he said: Garfield is very universal. By virtue of being a cat, really, he’s not really male or female or any particular race or nationality, young or old. I have updated the Garfield Wikipedia entry to reflect this fact. https://t.co/icgEE6Q11o  pic.twitter.com/XUAH3wZkcl  Somebody added 19 citations of Garfield's gender on the Garfield Wikipedia talk page. https://t.co/pTZx4ThNBD  pic.twitter.com/uAIMUZ3ygL  Garfield swapped genders on the site 20 times in two-and-a-half days. Also, his religion was briefly cited as Shiite Muslim. Never forget the Great Garfield Gender Wikipedia War of 2017 https://t.co/CY8S2JZs9p  pic.twitter.com/m1hWpRbdhc  @virgiltexas they gendered him right on the text! "HE's not really male or female" WTF  An administrator stepped in, and declared Garfield is male, citing a handful of comic strips as evidence. The page was locked against edits until March. In an effort to resolve the situation, the contacted Jim Davis, who said: Garfield is male. He has a girlfriend, Arlene. We can't wait till people start citing Roland Barthes' in their argument, concerning the gender of a cartoon cat on a free community-curated internet encyclopedia. Go outside, people.                    Keep scrolling for next article

That Garfield is a hot air balloon. That much we can agree on.

People are arguing over whether the cartoon cat Garfield is a girl cat or a boy cat or an undefinable cat.

Garfield’s creator, Jim Davis, was interviewed by Mental Floss two years ago.

In the interview, he said:

Garfield is very universal. By virtue of being a cat, really, he’s not really male or female or any particular race or nationality, young or old.

Satirist and part-time troll Virgil Texas got hold of this quote and took it to Wikipedia.

I have updated the Garfield Wikipedia entry to reflect this fact. https://t.co/icgEE6Q11o pic.twitter.com/XUAH3wZkcl — Virgil Texas (@virgiltexas) February 24, 2017

Since then, a war quickly ravaged on the Garfield page.

Somebody added 19 citations of Garfield's gender on the Garfield Wikipedia talk page. https://t.co/pTZx4ThNBD pic.twitter.com/uAIMUZ3ygL — Virgil Texas (@virgiltexas) February 26, 2017

Garfield swapped genders on the site 20 times in two-and-a-half days. Also, his religion was briefly cited as Shiite Muslim.

People were angry.

Never forget the Great Garfield Gender Wikipedia War of 2017 https://t.co/CY8S2JZs9p pic.twitter.com/m1hWpRbdhc — irony guy (@homero_simpsone) February 28, 2017

@virgiltexas they gendered him right on the text! "HE's not really male or female" WTF — Jorn (@WoodFeels) February 24, 2017

An administrator stepped in, and declared Garfield is male, citing a handful of comic strips as evidence.

The page was locked against edits until March.

In an effort to resolve the situation, the Washington Post contacted Jim Davis, who said:

Garfield is male. He has a girlfriend, Arlene.

We can't wait till people start citing Roland Barthes' The Death of the Author in their argument, concerning the gender of a cartoon cat on a free community-curated internet encyclopedia.

Go outside, people.

More: This cartoon of Trump and May has offended a lot of people