Lorde is back with a euphoric breakup song, 'Green Light'
Lorde is back with a euphoric breakup song, 'Green Light'
Lorde as a woman scorned is furious, yes, but thriving. After an appropriate dose of mystery , Lorde dropped her new single, "Green Light," Thursday, the first off her album, a. "She things you love the beach, but you're a damn liar," she sneers. In the video, she dances around town shaking her legendary head of hair under lights of varying colors. "I realized this is that drunk girl at the party dancing around crying about her ex-boyfriend who everyone thinks is a mess," Lorde told Zane Lowe when she premiered the song on his Beats 1 radio show on Apple Music. "That’s her tonight and tomorrow she starts to rebuild. And that’s the song for me." SEE ALSO: Lorde is 'Saturday Night Live' musical guest in March so new music has to be coming soon, right? Green Light is officially out in the world, and i am so pleased to share with you that this song is the first from my sophomore record, Melodrama. this is the cover, painted by sam mckinniss. welcome to the new world. A post shared by Lorde (@lordemusic) on Lorde told Lowe that writing "Green Light" helped her piece together . "'I was like “oh sh*t, this is it.' This was kinda the first thing that we really… all of a sudden everything else we’d written for the record started to make sense," she explained. "What a feeling, what a bloody feeling. It was amazing. The production of that one starts to inform the rest of them and it all sort of comes together." The video, directed by Grant Singer, features a cameo from her producer, Jack Antonoff, playing piano in the background. Before the video's release, Lorde left some clues in her native Auckland. auckland thank you so much for coming out last night.. pic.twitter.com/2AYtggOpGc — Lorde (@lorde) March 1, 2017 i am so proud of this song. it's very different, and kinda unexpected. it's complex and funny and sad and joyous and it'll make you DANCE — Lorde (@lorde) March 1, 2017 it's the first chapter of a story i'm gonna tell you, the story of the last 2 wild, fluorescent years of my life. this is where we begin — Lorde (@lorde) March 1, 2017 Even the Fonz was pumped to hear it: Can't wait.. musically speaking https://t.co/BxEMGxsHMV — Henry Winkler (@hwinkler4real) March 1, 2017

Lorde as a woman scorned is furious, yes, but thriving.

After an appropriate dose of mystery, Lorde dropped her new single, "Green Light," Thursday, the first off her album, Melodrama.

"She things you love the beach, but you're a damn liar," she sneers. In the video, she dances around town shaking her legendary head of hair under lights of varying colors.

"I realized this is that drunk girl at the party dancing around crying about her ex-boyfriend who everyone thinks is a mess," Lorde told Zane Lowe when she premiered the song on his Beats 1 radio show on Apple Music. "That’s her tonight and tomorrow she starts to rebuild. And that’s the song for me."

Green Light is officially out in the world, and i am so pleased to share with you that this song is the first from my sophomore record, Melodrama. this is the cover, painted by sam mckinniss. welcome to the new world. A post shared by Lorde (@lordemusic) on Mar 2, 2017 at 11:05am PST

Lorde told Lowe that writing "Green Light" helped her piece together Melodrama.

"'I was like “oh sh*t, this is it.' This was kinda the first thing that we really… all of a sudden everything else we’d written for the record started to make sense," she explained. "What a feeling, what a bloody feeling. It was amazing. The production of that one starts to inform the rest of them and it all sort of comes together."

The video, directed by Grant Singer, features a cameo from her producer, Jack Antonoff, playing piano in the background.

Before the video's release, Lorde left some clues in her native Auckland.

auckland thank you so much for coming out last night.. pic.twitter.com/2AYtggOpGc — Lorde (@lorde) March 1, 2017

i am so proud of this song. it's very different, and kinda unexpected. it's complex and funny and sad and joyous and it'll make you DANCE — Lorde (@lorde) March 1, 2017

it's the first chapter of a story i'm gonna tell you, the story of the last 2 wild, fluorescent years of my life. this is where we begin — Lorde (@lorde) March 1, 2017

Even the Fonz was pumped to hear it: