Police raid presidential candidate Francois Fillon's home
French police raid presidential candidate Francois Fillon's Paris home


The Paris home of French presidential candidate Francois Fillon was raided by police today – as he prepared to make a campaign speech 450 miles away.

Mr Fillon faces prison over a burgeoning fake jobs scandal involving his British-born wife Penelope.

The couple, both 62, have been summoned before a judge where they face being indicted for a range of charges including embezzlement, which is punishable by up to ten years in prison.

Judicial police working to the examining magistrates today entered Mr Fillon’s Paris flat and ‘gathered evidence’ connected to the case, according to an investigating source.

The Paris home of French presidential candidate Francois Fillon was raided by police today – as he prepared to make a campaign speech 450 miles away

Mr Fillon faces prison over a burgeoning fake jobs scandal involving his British-born wife Penelope (pictured together)

Mr Fillon was meanwhile in the southern city of Nimes, preparing to speak at an election meeting tonight.

It is thought that staff let detectives into the Paris flat, as Ms Fillon is thought to be permanently based on the family’s country estate.

She has only been seen in public once since the scandal broke, and has not uttered a single word in her defence.

Both the Fillons are expect to be charged on March 15th – just five weeks before France goes to the polls to chose its next head of state.

Mr Fillon, who used to be prime minister, said he was the victim of a ‘political assassination’ and accused judges of ‘not following the correct legal procedures’.

He is directly accused of paying his British-born wife hundreds of thousands of pounds while pretending she was his ‘parliamentary assistant’.

Mr Fillon is also accused of paying the couple’s two eldest children, Charles and Marie, from public funds when they were students.

‘I did not use public money – I gave work to those close to me because I knew I could trust them,’ Mr Fillon said at a Paris press conference on Wednesday.

Mr Fillon has been barracked during almost every public appearance after been placed at the centre of a criminal enquiry into fraud

TIMELINE: FILLON'S 35 YEARS ON THE POLITICAL STAGE March 4, 1954: Born in Le Mans, northwestern France. 1980: Marries Welsh-born Penelope Clarke. The couple go on to have five children. 1981: Elected deputy for the conservative RPR party led by Jacques Chirac. Wins re-election several times. 1993: Becomes a minister for the first time, taking on the higher education portfolio. He holds several more ministerial portfolios in successive rightwing governments. 2003: Implements major pension overhauls as social affairs minister during Chirac's presidency. 2007-12: Serves as prime minister under president Nicolas Sarkozy. 2012: Runs for the leadership of the rightwing UMP party but is defeated by Jean-Francois Cope in a vote tainted by accusations of fraud. November 27, 2016: Nominated as the centre-right presidential candidate, beating out primary rivals Sarkozy and former prime minister Alain Juppe. January 25, 2017: Revelations by the satirical and investigative paper Le Canard Enchaine of alleged 'fake jobs' for Penelope lead to a judicial inquiry.

He has meanwhile refused to step down as the Republicans candidate in two round elections that take place in April and May.

So many anti-corruption demonstrators have been stalking Mr Fillon that at the weekend he complained that France was on the verge of a ‘civil war’.

These claims were wildly mocked, as Socialist government ministers attacked Mr Fillon for trying to portray democratic protest as insurrection.

Up until the allegations were made public, Mr Fillon was the firm favourite to become president, but his poll figures have now collapsed.

Marine Le Pen, the far-right National Front candidate, is now expected to win the first round of the election, despite facing a fake jobs fraud scandal of her own.

Then Emmanuel Macron, the independent candidate who used to be financial minister, is expected to win in the second round.