More than 20 US airstrikes conducted in Yemen overnight
US airstrikes conducted in Yemen overnight
Shares               U.S. forces conducted more than 20 airstrikes in Yemen overnight, the Pentagon confirmed Thursday. The airstrikes involved a mix of manned and unmanned aircraft, a U.S. official told ABC News. The strikes, in the three Yemeni provinces of Al Baydah, Abyan and Shabwa, targeted al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula ( AQAP ) infrastructure. Pentagon spokesman Capt. Jeff Davis said the strikes were conducted in partnership with the Yemeni government. "The strikes will degrade the AQAP's ability to coordinate external terror attacks and limit their ability to use territory seized from the legitimate government of Yemen as a safe space for terror plotting," Davis said in a statement. This is the first U.S. military action in Yemen since January's Navy SEAL raid that killed Senior Chief Petty Officer William "Ryan" Owens. A U.S. official told ABC News that last night's airstrikes were planned prior to that SEAL mission. The Jan. 28 raid on a compound in rural southern Yemen was intended as an intelligence gathering mission targeting AQAP. The U.S. military has said that 14 AQAP fighters were killed in the raid.     An ongoing U.S. Central Command review has determined that some civilians were also killed, including possibly children. Local reports in Yemen have said as many as 25 civilians may have been killed during the raid. A senior U.S. official told ABC News that "valuable intelligence" was gathered from the raid. Shares                  US airstrikes conducted in Yemen overnight   ANALYSIS: Administration can't shake itself out of Russia pattern   Sessions used political funds for RNC convention expenses   Trump touts plans to bolster military aboard new aircraft carrier   Irish nationalists seek boost in Northern Ireland election   GOP, Dem foes of health care bill in scavenger hunt for copy   Briles says he didn't cover up sexual assaults at Baylor   Timeline of investigation into Kim Jong Nam's apparent assassination   Suspected gang member arrests related to Long Island teen murders   4-year-old wrestler runs away from competitor   Cat rescued from inside chimney: 'She was just happy to be out of there'   2-year-old with heart defect invited to senior prom   Photos mistakenly donated to Goodwill returned to owner   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Oregon lawmakers push to protect pot users' info from US   Iranian film hails demise of US Navy in imagined Gulf battle   Sweden institutes military draft for both men and women   Serbian presidential vote set for April 2; Vucic favored   Video purports to show deadly encounter between Georgia teen and deputies   Judge blocks release of Orlando nightclub gunman's widow   Police looking for man in connection with woman's fatal stabbing in Nashville   Tom Hanks sends new espresso machine to White House press corps   Beloved railroad seen in 'La La Land' chugging back to life   Accountants connected to Oscars mix-up will not work show again   Arnold Schwarzenegger reflects on affair, Twitter feud with Trump   Former NAACP leader Rachel Dolezal gets new African name   Jailing of officers shakes Baltimore criminal justice system   Jane Fonda reveals past rape and sexual abuse   Katie Holmes speaks out about giving daughter Suri a 'stable' childhood   What's new at the Epcot Flower and Garden Festival

U.S. forces conducted more than 20 airstrikes in Yemen overnight, the Pentagon confirmed Thursday.

The airstrikes involved a mix of manned and unmanned aircraft, a U.S. official told ABC News.

The strikes, in the three Yemeni provinces of Al Baydah, Abyan and Shabwa, targeted al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) infrastructure.

Pentagon spokesman Capt. Jeff Davis said the strikes were conducted in partnership with the Yemeni government.

"The strikes will degrade the AQAP's ability to coordinate external terror attacks and limit their ability to use territory seized from the legitimate government of Yemen as a safe space for terror plotting," Davis said in a statement.

This is the first U.S. military action in Yemen since January's Navy SEAL raid that killed Senior Chief Petty Officer William "Ryan" Owens.

A U.S. official told ABC News that last night's airstrikes were planned prior to that SEAL mission.

The Jan. 28 raid on a compound in rural southern Yemen was intended as an intelligence gathering mission targeting AQAP. The U.S. military has said that 14 AQAP fighters were killed in the raid.

An ongoing U.S. Central Command review has determined that some civilians were also killed, including possibly children. Local reports in Yemen have said as many as 25 civilians may have been killed during the raid.

A senior U.S. official told ABC News that "valuable intelligence" was gathered from the raid.