Future Provides Lively Performance of 'Incredible' on 'Ellen': Watch
Future Provides Lively Performance of 'Incredible' on 'Ellen': Watch
Future Provides Lively Performance of 'Incredible' on 'Ellen': Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After unleashing hisÂ album last week, Future Â stopped by Â to perform his exuberant album track "Incredible." Donning a hoodie with Jimi Hendrix plastered on the center, Future crooned his way through the love-struck record with his live band. The "Draco" star blazed through the month of February with full-length releases dropping back-to-back weeks. First, he liberated his eponymous album, which landed No. 1. Then, he surprised fans when he swiftly freedÂ his second effort featuring The Weeknd & Rihanna the next Friday. isÂ on pace to secure the top slot on the Billboard 200. That unprecedented feat would place Future in uncharted waters, making him the first artist to land two separate No. 1 debuts in consecutive weeks.Â  Besides crafting his own albums, Future recently co-starred in Ariana Grande's  video for "Everyday" and on Maroon 5's  "Cold." Â Take a look a Future's energetic performance below.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

After unleashing hisÂ album HNDRXX last week, FutureÂ stopped by EllenÂ to perform his exuberant album track "Incredible." Donning a hoodie with Jimi Hendrix plastered on the center, Future crooned his way through the love-struck record with his live band.

The "Draco" star blazed through the month of February with full-length releases dropping back-to-back weeks. First, he liberated his eponymous album, which landed No. 1. Then, he surprised fans when he swiftly freedÂ his second effort HNDRXX featuring The Weeknd & Rihanna the next Friday. HNDRXX isÂ on pace to secure the top slot on the Billboard 200. That unprecedented feat would place Future in uncharted waters, making him the first artist to land two separate No. 1 debuts in consecutive weeks.Â

Besides crafting his own albums, Future recently co-starred in Ariana Grande's video for "Everyday" and on Maroon 5's "Cold."Â

Take a look a Future's energetic performance below.Â