Why is my daughter so different to me? | Emma Brockes

Contact author    went to a one-year-old’s birthday party at the weekend, the kind of event I successfully avoided for the first 20 years of my adult life and that now constitutes the only time I go out. This one, at a restaurant in downtown Manhattan, featured a free bar for the parents, which seemed particularly mocking. What interested me was the way in which the party yanked me back to anxieties of yore. You think you’re a moderately high functioning 41-year-old and then poof, up pops the frightened child within. The cliche of Manhattan children is that they are overindulged, but apart from the booze and, I assume, the price tag, the party was no different to the ones I remember from the church halls of my youth. There was a balloon guy, and a face painter, and a guy with a guitar – all pretty low key, nothing too Christina Crawford . The balloon guy had a handlebar moustache and didn’t seem to like children, which endeared him to me. The makeup lady was lovely. It was the guitar guy who frightened me. Not the man himself, but his routine. “Can I have a volunteer?” he shouted during his rendition of Wheels on the Bus, and in spite of myself, a little part of me died. I am not a participator. As a child, I couldn’t think of anything worse than being hauled up on stage and made to act like being sawed in half was a lark. I didn’t want to be picked, which inevitably meant I was always being picked, no matter how far I shrank into the shadows. I was once “rewarded” for my diligence with the role of Mary in the nativity play, a nightmare for lots of reasons but mainly because of the disparity in size between me and the boy playing Joseph. He was big boned. I looked like a golf club. None of the angels could keep a straight face. My daughters are two and can’t tell the difference between volunteering and muscle spasm, but at the guitar man’s shout-out one of them instinctively surged forward. My heart leapt. How strange to have produced a child with such different instincts to me. When she got to the front, the decades-long mystery as to why quiet kids get picked was solved. Understanding she had the eyes of the room, my daughter promptly went rogue and, ignoring the guitar man’s instructions, launched into a tail-shaking affair she likes to call “the pee-pee dance”. It went on for some time. Her twin sister stood frowning on the sidelines, not far from the tree. I missed the Oscars live show, but the next day I watched the clip of Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway just before the fall. The most extraordinary thing about it is seeing Beatty’s brain work in real time. “And the winner is …” he says, glancing down at the envelope, whereupon a series of emotions fly across his face – confusion, panic, terror – and he practically throws the card at Dunaway: a medicine ball covered in spikes that is also on fire. Dunaway, bless her, looks at it like a woman who has left the house without her glasses again and guilelessly reads out the only name of a film she can see. Beatty, you rat; you really did sell her out. Nicole Kidman has a weird clap, apparently. Pages of the internet are devoted to it and, although the shot of her clapping at the Oscars was clearly taken from a bad angle, it is clear something is genuinely amiss. There she is, hammering away with the flat of her palms while the fingers bend upwards, like a toddler who has learned there are fingers and there are palms, but not that together these form the concept of “hands”. One engages with these things at one’s peril, of course. After watching that video, it was a slippery slope into 15 Celebrities That Now Have Normal Jobs and You Won’t Believe How These Child Actors Look Now.  Family   Notebook   Oscars 2017   Warren Beatty   Faye Dunaway   Nicole Kidman   comment

I went to a one-year-old’s birthday party at the weekend, the kind of event I successfully avoided for the first 20 years of my adult life and that now constitutes the only time I go out. This one, at a restaurant in downtown Manhattan, featured a free bar for the parents, which seemed particularly mocking. What interested me was the way in which the party yanked me back to anxieties of yore. You think you’re a moderately high functioning 41-year-old and then poof, up pops the frightened child within.

The cliche of Manhattan children is that they are overindulged, but apart from the booze and, I assume, the price tag, the party was no different to the ones I remember from the church halls of my youth. There was a balloon guy, and a face painter, and a guy with a guitar – all pretty low key, nothing too Christina Crawford. The balloon guy had a handlebar moustache and didn’t seem to like children, which endeared him to me. The makeup lady was lovely. It was the guitar guy who frightened me. Not the man himself, but his routine. “Can I have a volunteer?” he shouted during his rendition of Wheels on the Bus, and in spite of myself, a little part of me died.

I am not a participator. As a child, I couldn’t think of anything worse than being hauled up on stage and made to act like being sawed in half was a lark. I didn’t want to be picked, which inevitably meant I was always being picked, no matter how far I shrank into the shadows. I was once “rewarded” for my diligence with the role of Mary in the nativity play, a nightmare for lots of reasons but mainly because of the disparity in size between me and the boy playing Joseph. He was big boned. I looked like a golf club. None of the angels could keep a straight face.

My daughters are two and can’t tell the difference between volunteering and muscle spasm, but at the guitar man’s shout-out one of them instinctively surged forward. My heart leapt. How strange to have produced a child with such different instincts to me. When she got to the front, the decades-long mystery as to why quiet kids get picked was solved. Understanding she had the eyes of the room, my daughter promptly went rogue and, ignoring the guitar man’s instructions, launched into a tail-shaking affair she likes to call “the pee-pee dance”. It went on for some time. Her twin sister stood frowning on the sidelines, not far from the tree.

You dirty rat



Facebook Twitter Pinterest ‘Warren Beatty, you really did sell her out.’ Photograph: Kevin Winter/Getty Images

I missed the Oscars live show, but the next day I watched the clip of Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway just before the fall. The most extraordinary thing about it is seeing Beatty’s brain work in real time. “And the winner is …” he says, glancing down at the envelope, whereupon a series of emotions fly across his face – confusion, panic, terror – and he practically throws the card at Dunaway: a medicine ball covered in spikes that is also on fire. Dunaway, bless her, looks at it like a woman who has left the house without her glasses again and guilelessly reads out the only name of a film she can see. Beatty, you rat; you really did sell her out.

Clap trap



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Nicole Kidman: ‘Like a toddler who has learned there are fingers and there are palms, but not that together these form the concept of hands.’ Photograph: Mark Ralston/AFP/Getty Images

Nicole Kidman has a weird clap, apparently. Pages of the internet are devoted to it and, although the shot of her clapping at the Oscars was clearly taken from a bad angle, it is clear something is genuinely amiss. There she is, hammering away with the flat of her palms while the fingers bend upwards, like a toddler who has learned there are fingers and there are palms, but not that together these form the concept of “hands”. One engages with these things at one’s peril, of course. After watching that video, it was a slippery slope into 15 Celebrities That Now Have Normal Jobs and You Won’t Believe How These Child Actors Look Now.