Live! With The Times: The Chicago Rapper Noname
Live! With The Times: The Chicago Rapper Noname
Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Welcome Everyone! Excited for our live music with Noname. She is playing from the 15th floor of The New York Times headquarters in Manhattan. If you are an avid reader of our music stories, you’ll know about Noname from Joe Coscarelli’s recent story: Noname, Still Unsigned but a Presence The Chicago rapper Noname, a disciple of spoken word and Def Poetry Jam, has nimble wordplay and a warm, unruffled voice that work even better over beats. After appearing as a guest on Chance the Rapper’s two breakthrough mixtapes, she released her own debut project, “Telefone,” as a free download last summer, blending what she has referred to as sunny Los Angeles instrumentation and grim Chicago subject matter. The New York Times Joe is here joining the live performance and he will take your questions here in the comments as we watch Noname play. Ask away and share this with your friends! Music starts at 2:30pm.   J J Reader, New York, NY  On your Wikipedia page, your occupation is listed as “Rapper, poet”. I was wondering what order you would put those in?   J Jim Reader, Indianapolis, IN  Noname’s album “Telefone” is on this 54 year old white man’s regular listening list and has been for months.  Thank to Noname for a great artistic contribution! When do you come to Indianapolis for a concert?  I will be the bald old man in the audience!   W Will Reader, New York, NY  Where would you say the role of women in hip-hop stands today relative to years past?   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Live music has become a regular feature we’ve been streaming on Facebook and this is our first live music on The Times web site. Tell us what you think of it on our Live Interactive Journalism team email address LIJTeam@nytimes.com .     J Justin Reader, Louisville, KY  Your lyrics are very storytelling, any visuals/music videos in the works?   jl jenny lafleur Reader, Medford, MA  As a woman, do you find yourself stepping into a new area of female gender identity as a rapper? I’m interested in how women develop their own unique swagger in areas that have often been dominated by what we think of as hetero-male performances of gender.   N Nate Reader, Brooklyn, NY  Being an independent artist has a different connotation than in the past thanks to artists like yourself and your fellow Chicagoan Chance. Is this something that is maybe being overblown by the media or do you really sense a shift happening within the industry where artists are feeling more comfortable with their independence? (also can’t wait to see you perform at LPR tonight)   NK Nina Kirkegaard Reader, Toronto, ON  Telefone has accompanied me daily since I first heard it <3   P PE Reader, Seattle, WA  What artists have influenced your style? What genres outside of rap, hip hop have influenced you?   W William Reader, Atlanta, GA  There is so much depth in both the content and in the cadence and rhyme patterns of your lyrics, do you make a concerted effort to pair them with less dynamic (but still gorgeous) music and your relaxed delivery as a tool to allow those complexities to surface or is it just a matter of personal taste and style?   jd jack d Reader, chicago il  how beneficial was youmedia for your success? i’ve been going there for the last year and it’s great     L L'EROQ Reader, D.C.  A heartfelt thanks for sharing your voice. Telefone is wonderful. Which artists from previous generations would you have most liked to collaborate with? And do you worry about things like defining the boundaries of your own genre, or do you focus on creating your work and prefer to let the rest of us categorize it as we will? Thank you!   jl jenny lafleur Reader, Medford, MA  Does the physical landscape of Chicago impact your art in some way? If so, how?   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Noname’s mini-set here at The Times starts with “Diddy Bop” from her 2016 mixtape “Telefone.” Her band includes Brian Sanborn on guitar, Connor Baker on drums and Phoelix on the keys.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Everyone - we are taking your votes on what Noname should play for her next song. Which do you prefer?  “Freedom Interlude” or “Forever” ? Cast your vote now and we will tally!   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hey Joe! Cool to join you live for Noname. Curious: when did you first hear of Noname and how does she fit in with other rappers?   N Nora Reader, Columbus, OH  I was lucky enough to get to see you perform in Columbus, OH  during this past weekend. With all your recent success since the “Telefone” release what do you see in your future in terms of your career?   J Jalen Reader, Columbia, MO  Is getting a record deal on your radar at all? Is that a goal and dream of yours? Loved your St. Louis show a few days ago!   YW Yasmeen Wood Reader, Northwestern University  Is your inspiration for Everything is Everything from Mrs Lauryn Hill   Q Q Reader, Chicago, IL  I was so excited when you came out with Chance on SNL. Can you talk about how that went down? What was the experience like?   YW Yasmeen Wood Reader, Northwestern University  What female rappers have influenced your style   C Craig Reader, San Pedro, CA  No question….just big time love !!!   T Tom Reader, New York, NY  Best scene in “Get Out”?     SL Samuel Lavender Reader, Kalamazoo, MI  What was the inspiration for the name “noname gypsy”   M Manny Reader, Spring valley , NY  Why did you drop gypsy from your name?   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Louise, I first heard Noname on Chance the Rapper’s mixtape, “Acid Rap,“ a few years back. She was featured on the song “Lost” and her verse really floored me with how poised and intricate it was. For a young artist, she just seemed so fully formed before ever releasing a project of her own.   R Richard Reader, Ellicott City, MD  Was at your show in DC tuesday night. You were amazing! Is it true that you plan to never release another musical project after telefone?   A Alex Reader, Brooklyn, NY  Your album was one of my favorite’s from last year. I love the direction you take hip hop, especially sonically.  The keys on this album are a constant, kind of reassuring presence for example. Who influences your sound?? Do you compose by yourself or with the band?   D Dan Reader, Athens, GA  What were your favorite rap releases of last year (2016)? Yours and Vince Staples were mine!   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Diana, Noname just answered your question: she said she was really nervous. She met most of the cast and they were sweet. She said she had a moment with Chance before that was helpful in calming her.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Joe, what is the overlap in Noname’s music with Chance the Rapper’s music? How are they similar and different?   S Sam Reader, Brunswick, ME  What is your favorite song you have ever worked on/done?   N NW Reader, Philadelphia, PA  Thanks for sharing! I really enjoy this. Thanks NY Times, I don’t use Facebook so streaming from your website makes me glad I recently subscribed to the online version of the newspaper.  Thanks again.   M Maddy Reader, Evanston, IL  Lately I’ve been amazed by the vibrance of the rap/hip-hop scene in Chicago.  Who are some Chi-town artists we should keep an eye out for in the near future?   AI Andrew Ingrelli Reader, Milwaukee, WI  Thanks for including Milwaukee on your tour - it was a great show. What was your favorite city to play in and/or most memorable experience from the Telefone tour?     D David Reader, Brooklyn, NY  What was working with Chance like? Are there any other mentors or fellow musicans in the Chicago area that have helped you along the way?   JR Jerome Rhodes Reader, Kenwood  Coming from Chicago to Toronto for the weekend! Kennicott park showin up strong. AirBNB better pay y'all. All I Need is my favorite rn   A Ana Reader, Brooklyn, NY  Your work is constantly making me feel inspired. Can you tell us about your process and where you tend to draw inspiration from? Thank you for your beautiful work!   A Akil Reader, San Francisco, CA  Where was your ad-lib born out of ?   J Jim Reader, Indianapolis, IN  I hope that you keep your independence like Chance the Rapper has done.  It has allowed Chance to be true to his artistic vision.  What do you think about that?   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Nora from Columbus — you mention the possibility of a record deal for Noname, which is something I’m also curious about. Obviously her collaborator, Chance the Rapper, has helped create a new blueprint in the digital era for how artists can proceed with the standard gatekeepers. At the same time, I can’t imagine the labels haven’t come courting since “Telefone” was released and I’m eager to see what her next move is.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Noname gives an answer to a question about being a women. She says “it doesn’t really come up. I wish I had some cool politicized answer like, man, breaking down these barriers.” But she says it doesn’t come up in her music   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Nate from Brooklyn, Noname just answered your question about artists and independence in the industry: She says that there are so many communities of artists who want to be independent from the industry. She says she is unlikely to sign to a label   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  PE from Seattle , Noname answered your questions on who influenced her style – she says she’s influenced by Toni Morrison, early Spike Lee, electronica..   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Noname says: We are all creatures on this planet and no life is greater than the others   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Maddy from Evanston, you bring up Chicago’s recent musical dominance, especially in hip-hop. Saba, one of Noname’s collaborators, is a good one to keep an eye on. Also Knox Fortune, Famous Dex, Lud Foe — there’s no shortage of talent.   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Austin from Seattle, for some good background on Noname, you should check out this feature from New York magazine last year http://www.vulture.com/2016/10/meet-noname-chicago-raps-next-big-thing.html     Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Noname, you mentioned that you’re not looking to sign with a label at this moment, but are you at least taking the meetings and hearing people out? I hear there’s usually free dinner involved…   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Thanks so much to you all for your votes! She is now playing “Forever” just for you guys   B Brenda Reader, Boston, MA  Shout out to Jamila woods!!   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Hi Everyone! What do you think of her music? Put your comments here and tell us how you first came across Noname.   NK Nina Kirkegaard Reader, Toronto, ON  I heard Noname on Chance the Rapper’s track “Lost”   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  So you all win, she’s now playing “Freedom Interlude.” Enjoy!   B Brenda Reader, Boston, MA  So grateful for Noname’s spirit and vibrance - it’s a perfect blend of mellow and joy.  Thank you to Chance for the introduction on Acid Rap!!   JL Jeremy Lamstein Reader, Evanston, IL  I discovered her through collaborations with Chance. I am a student at Northwestern and an organization that I am a part of brought Noname to perform around three weeks ago in Evanston. It was an incredible experience to finally see her live. We got to see her at Metro in Chicago a week later too. She is a special talent and such an inspiration to listen to.   YW Yasmeen Wood Reader, Northwestern University  I think her music is super fresh and great. First heard her on Mick Jenkins “Comfortable”   A Alexia Reader, Orlando, FL  I first came across Noname one day when hanging out with all of my girl friends. Now we’re all traveling to Atlanta and bought tickets from stubhub just to be in her presence!!!   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Joe, how common is it for an artist not to sign with a record label? Is Noname rare?   Joe Coscarelli Reporter  Louise, the internet has done a lot to democratize the music industry — there are channels of distribution (streaming services, YouTube) that artists can use to their advantage without labels ever getting involved. With enough groundwork online, an artist can then build a sustainable career from touring and merchandise. But at the same time, it’s still extremely rare for an artist to stay completely independent at a certain level.   Louise Story Reporter and Executive Producer, Live Interactive Journalism  Thanks everyone for joining. Noname has ended. Tell the live interactive journalism team what else you’d like to see live at LIJteam@nytimes! You can watch other live music we have done here Live Music The New York Times regularly live streams music performances. Check out these videos below, and let us know who else you’d like to see live by emailing us at lijteam@nytimes.com. The New York Times

Welcome Everyone! Excited for our live music with Noname. She is playing from the 15th floor of The New York Times headquarters in Manhattan. If you are an avid reader of our music stories, you’ll know about Noname from Joe Coscarelli’s recent story:

Joe is here joining the live performance and he will take your questions here in the comments as we watch Noname play. Ask away and share this with your friends! Music starts at 2:30pm.