After Kansas Shooting, Some Indian Right Wing Groups Wanted Hindus In US To Wear Tilak To Distinguish Themselves, Here's Why It Is Not Just Stupid, But Also Dangerous
Right Wing Groups Want Hindus In US To Wear Tilak, Here's Why It's A Stupid And Dangerous Idea
Right Wing Groups Wanted Hindus In US To Wear Tilak To Protect Them, Here Is Why It's Not Just Stupid, But Dangerous Too The Kansas shooting incident has shaken the Indian community in the US unlike anything in the recent past. Given the rise in hate crimes in the country, in the recent times many fear that the community will face more such attacks. With this in mind, after the murder of the Hyderabad Techie, the Telangana American Telugu Association (TATA) had advised its people to communicate in English in public places in order to avoid any misunderstanding by the local Americans. The organisation further advised people not to get into argument with others in public places and leave the place immediately without confrontation. While it is a practical solution, derived by people who have been living in US and know the situation there, some Hindu right wing groups in India had their own 'advice' to make American Hindus safe - men should wear tilak and women should wear bindi on their forehead, to reflect their identity. This seemed to be an outcome of the reports that the Kansas attacker shot at the Indian techies mistaking them to be Iranians. But if anything, it is far from reality and is dangerous, making them only a target easily identifiable to potential attackers. In fact, a couple of decades ago, these were the exact symbols a hate group used to identify South Asians. Dotbusters was a notorious hate group in New Jersey which was behind a string of attacks on Indians in the year 1987. As the name implies, people wearing 'dot' (bindi) was their target.

The Kansas shooting incident has shaken the Indian community in the US unlike anything in the recent past. Given the rise in hate crimes in the country, in the recent times many fear that the community will face more such attacks.

AFP

With this in mind, after the murder of the Hyderabad Techie, the Telangana American Telugu Association (TATA) had advised its people to communicate in English in public places in order to avoid any misunderstanding by the local Americans.

The organisation further advised people not to get into argument with others in public places and leave the place immediately without confrontation.

AP

While it is a practical solution, derived by people who have been living in US and know the situation there, some Hindu right wing groups in India had their own 'advice' to make American Hindus safe - men should wear tilak and women should wear bindi on their forehead, to reflect their identity.

This seemed to be an outcome of the reports that the Kansas attacker shot at the Indian techies mistaking them to be Iranians.

But if anything, it is far from reality and is dangerous, making them only a target easily identifiable to potential attackers.

BCCL/ Representative Image

In fact, a couple of decades ago, these were the exact symbols a hate group used to identify South Asians.

Dotbusters was a notorious hate group in New Jersey which was behind a string of attacks on Indians in the year 1987. As the name implies, people wearing 'dot' (bindi) was their target.

Don't Miss 8.1 K SHARES 2.1 K SHARES 24.6 K SHARES 9.5 K SHARES 16 K SHARES

In August of 1987 The Jersey Journal, a local newspaper, had published a letter from a member of "Dotbusters".

"I'm writing about your article during July about the abuse of Indian People. Well I'm here to state the other side. I hate them, if you had to live near them you would also. We are an organization called the Dotbusters. We have been around for 2 years. We will go to any extreme to get Indians to move out of Jersey City. If I'm walking down the street and I see a Hindu and the setting is right, I will hit him or her. We plan some of our most extreme attacks such as breaking windows, breaking car windows, and crashing family parties. We use the phone books and look up the name Patel. Have you seen how many of them there are? Do you even live in Jersey City? Do you walk down Central avenue and experience what it's like to be near them: we have and we just don't want it anymore. You said that they will have to start protecting themselves because the police cannot always be there. They will never do anything. They are a weak [sic] race physically and mentally. We are going to continue our way. We will never be stopped."

It outlined the groups' intentions to force Indians out of the community by violent means, if necessary. The author explained the groups' technique of searching the local telephone directory for common Indian surnames. The letter claimed that three Patel attacks - would take place that evening.

The group showed its ugly colour later that year, in September 27, when Navroze Mody, a resident of New Jersey city had gone out for a drink with his white friend in a cafe in the in nearby town of Hoboken.

Asian American League

As they left the cafe Mody was assaulted and beaten into a coma by a group of ten youths. He died four days later.

For the next six months, the attacks continued and the Indian community was left disabled with fright. The attacks had forced many Indians to abandon wearing sari and bindi because both would call attention to their ethnicity.

It is also worthwhile to note here that another community which has come under frequent attacks after 9/11. American Sikhs have been on the receiving end of many hate-motivated attacks mostly because their attire and appearance closely resembled that to Muslims.

So, it is better to blend in with the local community there than trying to stand out with a target marked on your forehead.