Elon Musk just took advice from a super smart 5th grader
Elon Musk just took advice from a super smart 5th grader
Is Elon Musk smarter than a fifth grader? In some respects, sure. But apparently not when it comes to advertising. On Wednesday night, Bria, a fifth grade "green fan" of Musk's company, Tesla, blew the billionaire's mind by writing him a letter suggesting an innovative advertising idea. SEE ALSO: Elon Musk: 'Getting in a car will be just like getting in an elevator' in 10 years After Bria's father, "an auto writer for InsideEVs.com and U.S. News & World Report," shared a photograph of the letter to Twitter, explaining it was written for a school project, Musk gave it a read. And let's just say, he was seriously impressed. "I have noticed that you do not advertise, but many people make homemade commercials for Tesla and some of them are very good, they look professional and are entertaining," Bria began. "I think that you should run a competition on who can make a the best homemade Tesla commercial and the winners will get their commercial aired." What an insanely good idea, Bria. I bet Musk wishes he thought of it! As the brilliant fifth grader explained to the 45-year-old CEO, this creative method of advertising would not only save Tesla time and money on creating original advertisements, but it would also delight fans and customers. She even offered a suggestion for prizes so all Elon really has to do is put the plan into action. "You could give the winners a year of free Supercharging or a Model 3 Easter egg or something," she wrote. @elonmusk Elon, my daughter wrote you a letter for a school project. She mailed it to Tesla, but I figured I'd paste here. Thank you! pic.twitter.com/ntGEL9WCh3 — Steven (@Writer_StevenL) March 2, 2017 Bria complimented Musk’s own ideas for Tesla cars, sharing that one day she hopes to be a Tesla-driving politician who will do her best to ensure the cars can be sold everywhere. Musk enthusiastically retweeted the "lovely" letter, thanking Bria for her great idea, and promising Tesla would follow through. Thank you for the lovely letter. That sounds like a great idea. We'll do it! https://t.co/ss2WmkOGyk — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 2, 2017 Though Musk didn't reply to Bria's request for a free Tesla t-shirt, we think an idea this groundbreaking deserves something much more exciting like buying her her first car, perhaps. Here's hoping Bria gets an A on her project and keeps slaying the fifth grade business game. BONUS: Faraday Future rolls out production car, the FF 91, in rock star fashion

Is Elon Musk smarter than a fifth grader? In some respects, sure. But apparently not when it comes to advertising.

On Wednesday night, Bria, a fifth grade "green fan" of Musk's company, Tesla, blew the billionaire's mind by writing him a letter suggesting an innovative advertising idea.

After Bria's father, "an auto writer for InsideEVs.com and U.S. News & World Report," shared a photograph of the letter to Twitter, explaining it was written for a school project, Musk gave it a read. And let's just say, he was seriously impressed.

"I have noticed that you do not advertise, but many people make homemade commercials for Tesla and some of them are very good, they look professional and are entertaining," Bria began. "I think that you should run a competition on who can make a the best homemade Tesla commercial and the winners will get their commercial aired."

What an insanely good idea, Bria. I bet Musk wishes he thought of it!

As the brilliant fifth grader explained to the 45-year-old CEO, this creative method of advertising would not only save Tesla time and money on creating original advertisements, but it would also delight fans and customers.

She even offered a suggestion for prizes so all Elon really has to do is put the plan into action. "You could give the winners a year of free Supercharging or a Model 3 Easter egg or something," she wrote.

@elonmusk Elon, my daughter wrote you a letter for a school project. She mailed it to Tesla, but I figured I'd paste here. Thank you! pic.twitter.com/ntGEL9WCh3 — Steven (@Writer_StevenL) March 2, 2017

Bria complimented Musk’s own ideas for Tesla cars, sharing that one day she hopes to be a Tesla-driving politician who will do her best to ensure the cars can be sold everywhere.

Musk enthusiastically retweeted the "lovely" letter, thanking Bria for her great idea, and promising Tesla would follow through.

Thank you for the lovely letter. That sounds like a great idea. We'll do it! https://t.co/ss2WmkOGyk — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 2, 2017

Though Musk didn't reply to Bria's request for a free Tesla t-shirt, we think an idea this groundbreaking deserves something much more exciting like buying her her first car, perhaps.

Here's hoping Bria gets an A on her project and keeps slaying the fifth grade business game.