The Oral History of Michael Jordan's Minor League Baseball Career
The Oral History of Michael Jordan's Minor League Baseball Career
the cover was even less subtle The hitting instructor was Walt Hriniak. Michael would go into the cage and take what baseball players called flips. He would do that for an hour to 90 minutes. Then the team would show up, and Michael would go through the regular practice, which ran about three hours. Then he would talk to the media for a few minutes before going back out for another half-hour to an hour, taking more flips. If you haven’t swung a baseball bat in a while and decided to pick one up and swing it for 15 minutes, your hands would have blisters. His hands were so raw from taking flips that the calluses would rip open every day. When he came off the field, I don’t know how he could have held anything, much less a bat. The trainers would put a clear, rubberized patch over the inside of his hands. Then they would wrap his hands in gauze and tape. He looked like a prizefighter. "The first time I saw him fielding, he looked like a five-year-old going for fly balls, catching everything on the run with two hands." I don’t know if you can just push a button and somebody’s happy. But when you’re the manager, part of the job is at least trying. expected I knew there was a chance I’d pitch against him, because Birmingham was in our league. When I was still in Fort Myers, I heard about him from some of our rovers, and I thought that pitching to him would be one of the coolest things that could ever happen. I grew up 35 minutes away from [Chicago Stadium], watched every game on TV, was a huge Bulls fan. I think I started against them twice. Jordan got a hit off me, and then I picked him off first base. I also punched him out at least once—I think I faced him five times total. One game at home, one at their place. I told him later, “My mom told me to throw you all fastballs. That’s why you got that hit off me.” I made 14 starts with Chattanooga, two of them against the Barons, and faced Jordan for a total of five at-bats. Of course everybody asks me, “How’d you do?” Well, I struck him out twice…and me being me, I also walked him three times. I also tell people that with all the great hitters I faced in my career, I was nervous on the mound only twice: facing Michael Jordan that first year, then later facing Frank Thomas. You get Michael Jordan out. It’s a situation where you’ve got nothing to gain and everything to lose. So if anything, it’s about not embarrassing yourself. The idea was basically just to throw fastballs he couldn’t catch up with, get ahead, and then he’d have no chance on a good breaking ball. Everybody did their best to get him out. I wasn’t going to throw him any cookies, that’s for sure. With Jordan’s long arms, the idea was to pound inside with fastballs. Well, I didn’t get in there far enough and he hit it out in left-center [ ]. I was a little pissed off at myself. I talked to Jordan the next day in the outfield. Before our BP, he was shagging fly balls and I went out and shot the breeze with him, said, “Why do you gotta take me deep like that?” He was great, seemed like just another guy on the baseball team. I got two baseballs signed, which I still have. "Without the strike, I think he would have been in Triple-A in ‘95, and in the major leagues as a fourth outfielder by the end of the year." I’ve been on a lot of buses, and here’s what made this one different: Michael sat on it. The bus is the greatest story ever. The bus needs a . Michael never bought the bus. All his name did was arrange for and help three companies to put the bus together, and make it a bit nicer than your average bus. I guess he thought we were flying, and then he found it was a bus and he goes, “ .” No, Michael did not buy the bus. And we did not lie about that. I remember a national TV show wanted to come out, and they wanted to get someone on camera with the check that bought the bus. When we told them Michael wasn’t actually writing a check, they called back and said we’re not coming. We tried to correct it at every turn. Really, the bus wasn’t anything special. A little more leg room, and a card table in the back. So they announce he’s coming to Birmingham, and pretty soon we get a phone call: “Hey, Michael’s a little worried, and he’s wondering if there’s something we can do here.” See, guys in spring training are telling him every nightmare story about bus rides, just to terrify him. “Can we get a new bus?” This was the ‘90s, and in the motor-coach industry in the ‘90s, Birmingham was where old buses came to die. But, you know, they say Michael Jordan’s got the golden touch. We’d always used old equipment, buying from Trailways. But if Michael wanted a new bus… When this first came up, we got the word that Michael would be willing to help, if need be. Meanwhile, it became known that Michael Jordan wants a new bus. And it just so happens that MCI [Motor Coach Industries] has this new bus, this 45-foot demo. Well, they fell all over themselves; and Michael’s people worked out all the details. We wound up getting the bus at 1 a.m., and at 7 a.m. we’ve got a press conference, presenting the bus to Michael. What we always said was something like, “Michael was responsible for arrangements being made for the Barons to have a nice new bus.” Which was 100 percent true. It sold at a premium [in 2006]. I don’t know the exact figure, but I’ll say we sold it for something like $250,000. Without the two [Michael Jordan] signatures on the bus? More like $150,000. I was there for his first home run. I was there with my wife and my son (who was just a baby then). My wife had a video camera and was recording everything, every at-bat, and I told her, “Look, there’s no reason to do that.” And then I’ll be damned if he didn’t come up and hit that home run. The magic of that first home run, you can’t make that up. That game, he had come close in the previous two at-bats. The whole place is going crazy, and first he hits it to the warning track, then he hits one off the wall. And then he As he rounded the bases, I kept my eye on him. When he got between third base and home, he pointed to the sky. It was his father’s birthday. How about that? Ironically, it was the day before my father’s birthday and it is a great tribute to him. That is the best birthday present I can give him. Once I got to the plate, I just kind of paid tribute to my father, which I was planning to do. I was going to point up to him and say that was for you. It was a great feeling. It still makes me kind of emotional because I wish he was here to see it, but I know he saw it. We’d gotten a tip in the newsroom: “Hey, I’m at Sammy’s Go-Go and you wouldn’t believe who’s here.” I was already working on a story on Jordan's life away from the ballpark. So I headed there late, late at night. But when I arrived, they were gone. A manager who called himself Sammy Jr.—which was obviously a pseudonym—confirmed that Michael had been there. He said the funny thing was, there were 20 naked girls on the stage and 200 men, and all the men were staring into a corner, where Michael Jordan and Charles Barkley were talking—oblivious to the surroundings. I think they just wanted to talk, and figured that was the one place they could go where no one would bother them. You know, in Birmingham the strip joints are very average, not really something that Michael Jordan would find particularly enticing. It was late in the year. I wrote a column saying essentially what I thought of his playing, and that if he stays in baseball next year, he should come back to Birmingham and maybe he’ll get to Triple-A later in the season. And at the end of the column, I said that if he That night, he was really upset about it. He dropped a couple of f-bombs, and said he would not talk to me one-on-one again. So that was maybe the last Tuesday or Wednesday of the last home stand. Well, the last home game was Sunday, and I went up to him and we kinda hashed it out. He said he would have done some stuff in the city, but nobody asked him. "the funny thing was, there were 20 naked girls on the stage and 200 men, and all the men were staring into a corner, where Michael Jordan and Charles Barkley were talking." Walt [Hriniak] came in for a week. Mike Barnett came in for a week. So yeah, I stayed away from [Jordan]. He was battling. But, you know, any port in a storm. So maybe a month in, he came over and said, “Hey, would you work with me?” And I said, “Well, my family just showed up.” He said, “That’s fine. I’ll see you tomorrow.” I went and told my wife and she said, “What are you doing? This is your chance to share the gospel with this guy.” So I went back and found him and we got to work, while my daughter’s running around in the outfield under the sprinklers. The next morning, he shows up early. I was working with three other guys: Larry Sutton, Joe Randa, and Gregg Zaun. That first day, these guys all defer to him. And I said, “Nope, whoever got here first, goes first.” And from that day on, he was always the first guy there. I wasn’t on the coaching staff, but after a week or two, he calls me and says, “When are you gonna come out?” So I went out there for 10 days, two weeks, and worked with him. The Fall League then was the cream of the crop from Double-A; teams were still sending their best pitchers. He ended up hitting .255 out there. Most players take three or four years to get to that point. I was the outfield coach, too. The first time I saw him fielding, he looked like a 5-year-old going for fly balls, catching everything on the run with two hands. I told him, “A big man like you has to catch those on the side, with one hand.” And he said, “That’s how my dad taught me, catching everything with two hands. That’s how you play the game right.” Sure, if you’re standing still. And I’m wondering, I was coaching in the Royals organization. I didn’t have a problem with him at all, but I can tell you there were definitely a lot of guys in baseball who were hoping for him to fail. Just because they didn’t like the idea of somebody who hadn’t played in 14 or 15 years jumping right in and doing better than them. Terry Francona and I were supposed to have dinner one night and instead he tells me, “Some of the guys are going to play basketball over at Club SAR. Why don’t you come with me? Michael will probably be there.” So we’re playing, and I’m on the team with Francona and Jordan and the coaches, against these young Fall League players. I’m covering Curtis Goodwin, who I think stole 59 bases that season in the Eastern League. I played some basketball in high school, but these guys were real I must have spent the whole game just hanging on to Goodwin’s shirt. Apparently I was so nervous about being in a game with Michael Jordan that I didn’t really take any deep breaths, and could not catch my breath after the game. The trainers and everybody were there—they all wanted to see Michael Jordan playing basketball. They checked me out and said, “We’d feel better if you went over to the hospital to get checked out.” I really didn’t want to go. I mean, how embarrassing. But they insisted. So one of the security guys drives me over, and the hospital’s packed with people. But a few minutes later I’m in my own little room, and I’m getting oxygen. And all these people are coming in and out, all asking, “So what was it like, playing basketball with Michael Jordan?” His security guard, I guess, told them who I’d been with, to get me bumped to the head of the line. After being asked that a few times, I finally told someone, “What’s it like? What’s it like? I’m in the hospital— what it’s like playing fucking basketball with Michael Jordan!” The next day I walked into the clubhouse and Michael sees me and motions me over. “You can’t play basketball with us anymore,” he said. “Because I can’t have fun if I’ve got to worry about you keeling over.” It’s the last day of the season. Scottsdale did not win their division. You can imagine that guys wanted to get out of Dodge yesterday. Well, Michael taps me on the shoulder. I turn around, look up at him, and he says, “Steve, I just want to thank you for my time here.” I’ve now been doing this for 24 years, and I’ve never, ever had another player thank me for being in the Arizona Fall League. Not anyone. Except Michael Jordan. Are you kidding me? . Saturday Night Live that In 1995, I picked him up again in spring training, and I remember telling Ron Schueler, “He’s got a baseball body.” In ’94, he still looked like a basketball player. But when he walked off that plane in ’95, he looked like a baseball player. We never had any inkling that he was leaving. I think he would have definitely given it one more year if not for the strike. When the strike hit and we decided to go with replacement players, Michael could not be part of that. I had no idea of coming back. I don’t think I would have come back if there hadn’t been the baseball strike. They started throwing me into that dispute, something I had nothing to do with. I was having fun down there playing baseball. And it was an opportunity to prove something. I was getting better all the time. All I needed to get that urge back was to hang around the basketball court for a while. When we started in April, his best bolt was a fly ball to left field. When he took BP in August, he’s hitting 11 or 12 balls over the wall. On the 20 to 80 scale, his arm in April was a 20; by the end of the year, it was a 50. Without the strike, I think he would have been in Triple-A in ‘95, and in the major leagues as a fourth outfielder by the end of the year. He had the ability, the aptitude, and the work ethic. All three, off the charts. You wish you could get everybody with the same work ethic and tenacity. I think if he’d stuck with baseball as a kid, he could have been another Dave Winfield. The prettiest thing was when he would hit a ball to right-center field and beat it out for a triple. You’d watch him round first base and it was like seeing a thoroughbred horse. It was pretty. It really was. You know how good the pitching is in Double-A, and those adjustments were tough. I think his numbers would have been better the next year. And he handled himself well in the Fall League, too. In the outfield? Yeah, he struggled with his jumps; that was tough in the beginning for him. But he worked at it, and got better. Again, that next year would have been interesting. He never wavered; he knew these were the things he had to do. If you tell Michael no, he will find a way to make the answer be yes. When people ask me if he’d have gotten to the majors, I say if you give him a thousand at-bats, he will find his way to the big leagues. I don’t know if he’s an every-day player or a bench guy or what. But he will find a way. "there were definitely a lot of guys in baseball who were hoping for him to fail. Just because they didn’t like the idea of somebody who hadn’t played in 14 or 15 years jumping right in."

The Fall League

In the Barons’ last Saturday home game, they drew 16,247 fans, setting a new attendance record. Jordan played in five more games, his last coming on Sept. 3 in Huntsville, Alabama. He finished with 12 hits in his last 40 at-bats, lifting his batting average from .192 to .202 at season’s end.

After taking a few weeks off, Jordan reported first to Sarasota to get back in game shape, then to the Arizona Fall League’s Scottsdale Scorpions, where his teammates included various White Sox, Red Sox, and Royals prospects, all of them far younger than him. And just as he’d been in the Southern League, Jordan would become a hard-working, crowd-drawing, sensation in Arizona, too.

Steve Cobb, executive vice president, Arizona Fall League: He had a dramatic impact on us. The non-Scottsdale games that season averaged roughly 225 people per game. For Scottsdale games, home and away, the average was 1,788 fans per game. So roughly 1,500 more fans per game, on average. All walk-ups, because in those days we didn’t sell tickets in advance.

The previous year, our largest single crowd was roughly 3,100. When Michael Jordan came, we topped that mark six times. I remember three of those in particular.

First, there was Opening Night. October 6, Tempe Diablo Stadium. There were more than 6,100 people at the game, and you would look out and see lines of cars trying to get into the parking lot. October 19, the game was nationally televised by Prime Sports Network. Scottsdale at Peoria.

And then there was the biggest crowd we’ve ever had in the history of the league. It was a Monday night in Tucson; we went down and played one game at old Hi Corbett Field. The Scorpions played the Rafters down there. It might have been 45 degrees that night, and we had 7,800 people in the stands.

Bob Herold, Scorpions hitting coach: Walt [Hriniak] came in for a week. Mike Barnett came in for a week. So yeah, I stayed away from [Jordan]. He was battling. But, you know, any port in a storm. So maybe a month in, he came over and said, “Hey, would you work with me?”

And I said, “Well, my family just showed up.”

He said, “That’s fine. I’ll see you tomorrow.”

I went and told my wife and she said, “What are you doing? This is your chance to share the gospel with this guy.” So I went back and found him and we got to work, while my daughter’s running around in the outfield under the sprinklers.

The next morning, he shows up early. I was working with three other guys: Larry Sutton, Joe Randa, and Gregg Zaun. That first day, these guys all defer to him. And I said, “Nope, whoever got here first, goes first.” And from that day on, he was always the first guy there.

Barnett: I wasn’t on the coaching staff, but after a week or two, he calls me and says, “When are you gonna come out?” So I went out there for 10 days, two weeks, and worked with him. The Fall League then was the cream of the crop from Double-A; teams were still sending their best pitchers. He ended up hitting .255 out there. Most players take three or four years to get to that point.

Herold: I was the outfield coach, too. The first time I saw him fielding, he looked like a 5-year-old going for fly balls, catching everything on the run with two hands. I told him, “A big man like you has to catch those on the side, with one hand.” And he said, “That’s how my dad taught me, catching everything with two hands. That’s how you play the game right.” Sure, if you’re standing still. And I’m wondering, I’m really the first guy to tell this guy how to catch the ball right?

I was coaching in the Royals organization. I didn’t have a problem with him at all, but I can tell you there were definitely a lot of guys in baseball who were hoping for him to fail. Just because they didn’t like the idea of somebody who hadn’t played in 14 or 15 years jumping right in and doing better than them.

Steve Gilbert, Arizona Fall League media relations: Terry Francona and I were supposed to have dinner one night and instead he tells me, “Some of the guys are going to play basketball over at Club SAR. Why don’t you come with me? Michael will probably be there.”

So we’re playing, and I’m on the team with Francona and Jordan and the coaches, against these young Fall League players. I’m covering Curtis Goodwin, who I think stole 59 bases that season in the Eastern League. I played some basketball in high school, but these guys were real athletes. I must have spent the whole game just hanging on to Goodwin’s shirt.

Apparently I was so nervous about being in a game with Michael Jordan that I didn’t really take any deep breaths, and could not catch my breath after the game. The trainers and everybody were there—they all wanted to see Michael Jordan playing basketball. They checked me out and said, “We’d feel better if you went over to the hospital to get checked out.” I really didn’t want to go. I mean, how embarrassing. But they insisted. So one of the security guys drives me over, and the hospital’s packed with people. But a few minutes later I’m in my own little room, and I’m getting oxygen. And all these people are coming in and out, all asking, “So what was it like, playing basketball with Michael Jordan?” His security guard, I guess, told them who I’d been with, to get me bumped to the head of the line.

After being asked that a few times, I finally told someone, “What’s it like? What’s it like? I’m in the hospital—that’s what it’s like playing fucking basketball with Michael Jordan!”

The next day I walked into the clubhouse and Michael sees me and motions me over. “You can’t play basketball with us anymore,” he said. “Because I can’t have fun if I’ve got to worry about you keeling over.”

Cobb: It’s the last day of the season. Scottsdale did not win their division. You can imagine that guys wanted to get out of Dodge yesterday. Well, Michael taps me on the shoulder. I turn around, look up at him, and he says, “Steve, I just want to thank you for my time here.”

I’ve now been doing this for 24 years, and I’ve never, ever had another player thank me for being in the Arizona Fall League. Not anyone. Except Michael Jordan. Are you kidding me?