Possibility Of 'Rangeela' Sequel, Mahesh Bhatt Receives Death Threats And More From Ent World!
Possibility Of 'Rangeela' Sequel, Mahesh Bhatt Receives Death Threats And More From Ent World!
Possibility Of 'Rangeela' Sequel, Mahesh Bhatt Receives Death Threats And More From Ent World! 1. Aamir Khan's Rangeela Might Just Have A Sequel But It Won't Have The Same Cast However, when a reporter asked RGV during the Sarkar 3 trailer launch, the director said, “The Rangeela sequel story is not true”. While some are citing his differences with Aamir-Urmila that might be delaying the project (since he wanted to rope the earlier cast only), some are assuming he might just name it differently. 2. Mahesh Bhatt Receives Death Threats , Caller Threatens To Pump Bullets In Daughter Alia Bhatt! Reports claim that an unidentified person called Mahesh Bhatt and demanded Rs 50 lakh from him. Apart from demanding money, the caller also threatened to kill the whole family, if he fails to fulfill their monetary demands. 3. We Are On Good Terms And Will Continue To Be So, Says Arbaaz Khan On His Equation With Malaika For the first time ever, Arbaaz Khan spoke about his equation with Malaika. Talking to TOI, he said, "My association with Malaika's family is as old as my association with her. My equation with her mother, sister and father won't be affected just because as partners, matters haven't been fine between us. In fact, I get invited to their house for dinner every other day. I still respect Malaika and she is the mother of my son, Arhaan. He is still young, so a certain decorum has to be maintained." 4. Geeta & Babita Phogat Slam KRK After He Insulted Their Views On Gurmehar Kaur Case Kamal Rashid Khan, who enjoys Twitter fights and controversies, this time tried slamming Babita Phogat over the Gurmehar Kaur case. Babita and Geeta Phogat joined the likes of Virender Sehwag and wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt and spoke against Gurmehar Kaur’s ideology. 5. Shveta Salve Charms Us Yet Again , Shares A Stunning Bikini Pic 6 Months After Giving Birth! 6 months after bumpy .. not bad I guess ? . . #postpreggers #afterbabybod #pumpthebump #mommysdayoff #instapic #fitmommy #postbabybod #healthyandhappy #jamboreecreekgoa #goa #ashwem #mommybody A post shared by ⓢⓗⓥⓔⓣⓐ ⓢⓐⓛⓥⓔ (@shveshve) on Feb 28, 2017 at 10:45pm PST   The mother of one recently posted her bikini picture on Instagram and broke the internet. Six months after giving birth to Arya, Shveta Salve comes out looking like a total bombshell.

1. Aamir Khan's Rangeela Might Just Have A Sequel But It Won't Have The Same Cast

Rediff

However, when a reporter asked RGV during the Sarkar 3 trailer launch, the director said, “The Rangeela sequel story is not true”. While some are citing his differences with Aamir-Urmila that might be delaying the project (since he wanted to rope the earlier cast only), some are assuming he might just name it differently.

2. Mahesh Bhatt Receives Death Threats, Caller Threatens To Pump Bullets In Daughter Alia Bhatt!

Instagram/Alia Bhatt

Reports claim that an unidentified person called Mahesh Bhatt and demanded Rs 50 lakh from him. Apart from demanding money, the caller also threatened to kill the whole family, if he fails to fulfill their monetary demands.

3. We Are On Good Terms And Will Continue To Be So, Says Arbaaz Khan On His Equation With Malaika

BCCL

For the first time ever, Arbaaz Khan spoke about his equation with Malaika. Talking to TOI, he said, "My association with Malaika's family is as old as my association with her. My equation with her mother, sister and father won't be affected just because as partners, matters haven't been fine between us. In fact, I get invited to their house for dinner every other day. I still respect Malaika and she is the mother of my son, Arhaan. He is still young, so a certain decorum has to be maintained."

4. Geeta & Babita Phogat Slam KRK After He Insulted Their Views On Gurmehar Kaur Case

Various Sources

Kamal Rashid Khan, who enjoys Twitter fights and controversies, this time tried slamming Babita Phogat over the Gurmehar Kaur case. Babita and Geeta Phogat joined the likes of Virender Sehwag and wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt and spoke against Gurmehar Kaur’s ideology.

5. Shveta Salve Charms Us Yet Again, Shares A Stunning Bikini Pic 6 Months After Giving Birth!

The mother of one recently posted her bikini picture on Instagram and broke the internet. Six months after giving birth to Arya, Shveta Salve comes out looking like a total bombshell.

Don't Miss 682 SHARES 1.3 K SHARES 25.9 K SHARES 25.8 K SHARES 15.7 K SHARES