Disney Channel Has Aired Its First Ever Same-Sex Smooch
Disney Channel Has Aired Its First Ever Same-Sex Smooch
Last week, Disney XD aired an episode of the animated series titled “Just Friends,” which features several same-sex couples kissing. Of course, being a children’s series, the kisses were entirely innocent and represented tastefully by Disney. In the scene featured above, the main character of the show, Star (right), attends a concert for the boy band “Love Sentence” with two of her friends, Marco and Jackie. During the concert, the band performs a song called “Just Friends,” and audience members (including Marco and Jackie) start smoochin’ all over the place. What’s really awesome about this scene, though, is that it features a gay couple kissing for the first time on Disney Channel show, ever. And what’s even cooler is that in the next shot, several couples of different races, age groups, backgrounds, and sexual orientations can be seen lockin’ lips. Lots of people are happy to see such a diverse range of couples being represented in such a nonchalant way. This isn’t the first time a Disney show has featured an openly gay couple. In 2014, the live-action series aired an episode that featured a lesbian couple, Cheryl and Susan. And the series finale of the cartoon revealed that two of its main characters, Sheriff Blubs and Deputy Durland, are in a big ole’ gay relationship with each other. TL;DR: Disney Channel is making a conscious effort to represent all people, and we’re here for it.   Nashville's Last Taboo? Country Music Stars Are Tiptoeing...    6 New Movie Moments That Will Make Your March Better...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.