Following Earnings Miss, Costco Plans To Hike Membership Fees
Following Earnings Miss, Costco Plans To Hike Membership Fees
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Maggie McGrath       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) Not even discount dreamland Costco is immune from retail's  woes -- at least, not if its second quarter earnings results are any indication. The company reported a disappointing set of results Thursday afternoon, with sales coming in a hair below Wall Street's expectations and per-share profit missing by an even wider berth. The good news for investors: alongside these results, Costco also announced plans to increase its membership fee. Costco reported Thursday that it recorded $29.8 billion in second quarter fiscal 2017 revenue, up from $28.1 billion in the year-ago quarter but ever so slightly below the $29.9 billion analyst consensus. Comparable store sales for the quarter grew 3%, just below the 3.2% Wall Street estimate. Net income for the quarter fell 5.7% to $515 million, a figure that resulted in earnings of $1.17 per share. The per-share profit metric is 7 cents below earnings per share reported in the year-ago quarter and 18 cents below what analysts expected to see. The earnings release did not include executive commentary, though it did say that the company plans to hike membership fees later this year. Starting on June 1, 2017, membership fees will go up $5 for U.S. and Canada individual, business and business add-on members; with this price hike, the membership fee for these groups will come to $60 a year. Executive fees are also seeing a hike: the price for an executive membership in the U.S. and Canada will go to $120, up from $110. All told, Costco said, the fee hikes will affect 35 million members, half of whom are in the executive membership program. Following the release of the earnings results, shares of Costco, which finished Thursday's regular trading session up 0.07%, fell into negative territory, at one point losing more than 5%. The stock is currently down 3.9%. Costco's lighter-than-expected second quarter earnings come on the heels of weaker-than-expected results for many of its competitors: last week J.C. Penney said that it will shutter 140 stores ; on Tuesday missed on the top- and bottom-line, and its outlook wasn't much brighter and on Wednesday, earnings missed the mark . And on Monday, credit ratings shop Moody's Analytics came out with a report saying that t While Costco is not a distressed retailer, it is nonetheless affected by the actions of those who are. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Not even discount dreamland Costco is immune from retail's woes -- at least, not if its second quarter earnings results are any indication. The company reported a disappointing set of results Thursday afternoon, with sales coming in a hair below Wall Street's expectations and per-share profit missing by an even wider berth. The good news for investors: alongside these results, Costco also announced plans to increase its membership fee.

Costco reported Thursday that it recorded $29.8 billion in second quarter fiscal 2017 revenue, up from $28.1 billion in the year-ago quarter but ever so slightly below the $29.9 billion analyst consensus. Comparable store sales for the quarter grew 3%, just below the 3.2% Wall Street estimate.

Net income for the quarter fell 5.7% to $515 million, a figure that resulted in earnings of $1.17 per share. The per-share profit metric is 7 cents below earnings per share reported in the year-ago quarter and 18 cents below what analysts expected to see.

The earnings release did not include executive commentary, though it did say that the company plans to hike membership fees later this year. Starting on June 1, 2017, membership fees will go up $5 for U.S. and Canada individual, business and business add-on members; with this price hike, the membership fee for these groups will come to $60 a year. Executive fees are also seeing a hike: the price for an executive membership in the U.S. and Canada will go to $120, up from $110.

All told, Costco said, the fee hikes will affect 35 million members, half of whom are in the executive membership program.

Following the release of the earnings results, shares of Costco, which finished Thursday's regular trading session up 0.07%, fell into negative territory, at one point losing more than 5%. The stock is currently down 3.9%.

Costco's lighter-than-expected second quarter earnings come on the heels of weaker-than-expected results for many of its competitors: last week J.C. Penney said that it will shutter 140 stores; on Tuesday missed on the top- and bottom-line, and its outlook wasn't much brighter and on Wednesday, earnings missed the mark. And on Monday, credit ratings shop Moody's Analytics came out with a report saying that the number of U.S. retailers on the lowest and distressed tier of its rating spectrum has tripled over the last six years, reaching a level not seen since the Great Recession of 2008 and 2009.

While Costco is not a distressed retailer, it is nonetheless affected by the actions of those who are.

"As they struggle to survive, distressed retailers can take more desperate measures, including highly promotional pricing that can border on irrational," Moody's Vice President Charlie O'Shea said in a statement alongside Monday's report. "This leaves stronger firms with the choice of either competing in a race to the bottom, or giving up sales in order to preserve margin."