17 People Who Are Happy For Obama But Are Also Internally Sobbing
17 People Who Are Happy For Obama But Are Also Internally Sobbing
Now, unless you’ve been under a rock, you’ve probably noticed that people are still not handling Obama leaving the White House well. From sightings of the Obamas on vacation and in New York , we’ve all seen the former POTUS having the time of his life. And even though it’s officially over, people can’t stop themselves from asking Barry to come back. Politely, of course. Some have realized that they just might have lost the best they ever had. Look at that glow. While some have just flat out accepted reality. Obama's on vacation with the hat backwards. He's never coming back. And all efforts to stay strong have failed tremendously. Some were sure to wish him a happy Presidents Day! While others found themselves thinking of more creative alternatives to the current situation. Or, just living in the past completely. This photo in particular had people fully in their feelings, but also choking back happy tears. It also made some people do some deep thinking about their own lives tbh. It seems like there are people who feel like there’s a chance they can win him back? While some are reading into every subliminal message he might be sending, looking for some signs that maybe he misses being leader of the free world. Honestly, people are just laying it all out there. But also out of love, people are happy he’s out in the world and thriving. Because as I’m sure you’ve noticed — he is EXTREMELY unbothered. Do you, Barry O’, do you.   In Pictures: The Grim And Absurd Reality Of The First...    18 States Just Stood Up For Transgender Students At...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.