Dalvin Cook Says He Is Best Running Back in 2017 NFL Draft Class
Dalvin Cook Says He Is Best Running Back in 2017 NFL Draft Class
Florida State's Dalvin Cook attempted to put an end to any discussion about who is the best running back in the 2017 NFL draft class. Cook told reporters on Thursday at the NFL Scouting Combine he believes he's the best available running back for teams to choose from. “I believe I am the best running back in this draft,” Cook said, via Lorenzo Reyes of . "... It's been assumed LSU star Leonard Fournette would be the first running back taken when the draft commences on April 27. B/R NFL draft analyst Matt Miller has Fournette ranked as the No. 2 overall prospect in this year's class; Cook is ranked No. 18. During a February 7 appearance on the Move The Sticks Podcast (h/t NFL.com's Chase Goodbread ) NFL.com analyst Bucky Brooks drew a similar parallel with Fournette and Cook to the 2007 draft class that saw Adrian Peterson and Marshawn Lynch both taken in the top 12: Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Joel Auerbach/Getty Images

Adam Wells Featured Columnist

Florida State's Dalvin Cook attempted to put an end to any discussion about who is the best running back in the 2017 NFL draft class.

Cook told reporters on Thursday at the NFL Scouting Combine he believes he's the best available running back for teams to choose from.

“I believe I am the best running back in this draft,” Cook said, via Lorenzo Reyes of USA Today. "... I just think my game and my tape proved that. I just think that moving forward, I can prove that myself.”

It's been assumed LSU star Leonard Fournette would be the first running back taken when the draft commences on April 27.

B/R NFL draft analyst Matt Miller has Fournette ranked as the No. 2 overall prospect in this year's class; Cook is ranked No. 18.

During a February 7 appearance on the Move The Sticks Podcast (h/t NFL.com's Chase Goodbread) NFL.com analyst Bucky Brooks drew a similar parallel with Fournette and Cook to the 2007 draft class that saw Adrian Peterson and Marshawn Lynch both taken in the top 12:

Cook isn't a Marshawn Lynch clone, but part of the debate (was), who is the better prototypical pro back? At the time, (it was) Marshawn Lynch, because he caught the ball out of the backfield at Cal. Adrian Peterson was a rough-and-ready runner, but he didn't give you any pass production. And he really hasn't done that in the league. He's been more of a primary runner, he's had tremendous success. But in today's game, being pass-centric, it's all about the quarterback, and your running back has to be a triple threat.

Cook and Fournette dazzled during their three college seasons, though Fournette was limited to seven games in 2016 due to injuries and skipping LSU's bowl game against Louisville.

Cook set a career high with 1,765 rushing yards and tied his career high with 19 rushing touchdowns last season. He also averaged 14.8 yards per reception on a career-high 33 catches for the Seminoles in 2016.

The pre-draft process will determine if Cook is able to convince at least one team he's better than Fournette. It doesn't appear to be a sizable gap heading into the combine this weekend.