Joey Bada$$ Reveals Title, Release Date for Sophomore Album
Joey Bada$$ Reveals Title, Release Date for Sophomore Album
Joey Bada$$ Reveals Title, Release Date for Sophomore Album  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Joey Bada$$ has been teasing the title of his sophomore album for a few months now, having previously only given fans an acronym: . Today (March 2), the Brooklyn-born rapper took to Twitter to reveal the full title, , and announced that the LP will be on the way on April 7. A short, 30-second teaser for the album shows Joey walking through a dusty desert dragging a baseball bat, as images of a burning cross and children playing in a field flash across the screen. As the faint final strands of the "Star Spangled Banner" echo through the desert, Joey winds up and uses the bat to smash a glass plate painted with the American flag, before the album title and release date are revealed.Â The title recalls both Ice Cube 's classic 1990 solo debut and the debut mixtape from Joey's friend, close collaborator and Pro Era co-founder Capital Steez, who released the project in 2012 before his untimely death the night before Christmas Eve that year. The release date for also fits in with Joey's career to date; April 7, or 4/7, alludes to Pro Era's "47" logo.  will be Joey's second official album, following the release of his debut LP on Jan. 20, 2015, a date which doubled as the young MC's 20th birthday. He's been gearing up for the release of the album with the singles " Land of the Free ," an excellent politically- and socially-charged track that takes aim at Donald Trump (among others), and the 2016 cut " Devastated ," which gave Joey his first gold plaque. Check out the video accompanying Joey's album announcement below. #AABA  #AABA  #AABA  pic.twitter.com/DDFTu1V8x3 Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Joey Bada$$ has been teasing the title of his sophomore album for a few months now, having previously only given fans an acronym: AABA. Today (March 2), the Brooklyn-born rapper took to Twitter to reveal the full title, ALL-AMERIKKKAN BADA$$, and announced that the LP will be on the way on April 7.

A short, 30-second teaser for the album shows Joey walking through a dusty desert dragging a baseball bat, as images of a burning cross and children playing in a field flash across the screen. As the faint final strands of the "Star Spangled Banner" echo through the desert, Joey winds up and uses the bat to smash a glass plate painted with the American flag, before the album title and release date are revealed.Â

The title recalls both Ice Cube's classic 1990 solo debut AmeriKKKa's Most Wanted and the debut mixtape from Joey's friend, close collaborator and Pro Era co-founder Capital Steez, who released the project AmeriKKKan Korruption in 2012 before his untimely death the night before Christmas Eve that year. The release date for AABAÂ also fits in with Joey's career to date; April 7, or 4/7, alludes to Pro Era's "47" logo.

AABA will be Joey's second official album, following the release of his debut LP B4.Da.$$ on Jan. 20, 2015, a date which doubled as the young MC's 20th birthday. He's been gearing up for the release of the album with the singles "Land of the Free," an excellent politically- and socially-charged track that takes aim at Donald Trump (among others), and the 2016 cut "Devastated," which gave Joey his first gold plaque.

Check out the video accompanying Joey's album announcement below.

Â