Catholic high school could make millions on Snap public offering
Catholic high school could make millions on Snap public offering
Shares               For the students of Saint Francis High School, there’s about to be another reason to love Snapchat: the school is likely to make big bucks on the public offering of the popular social media app's parent company. Once Snap, the parent of Snapchat, goes public, the high school is likely to earn "tens of millions of dollars" in return, according to a report by The Information. Snap was initially priced at $17 per share. At 200 million shares, the company was valued at close to $24 billion. The SF Growth Fund, the school’s endowment fund, was reportedly one of Snap’s first investors in 2012. The investment fund was meant to benefit student scholarships and tuition subsidies. So how did a private Catholic school in Mountain View think to get in on one of the earliest investment rounds in Snap? It started when Barry Eggers’ then teenage daughter, Natalie, a former student at Saint Francis, mentioned the messaging app called Snapchat that was quickly becoming one of her favorites. Eggers said it was almost exactly five years ago, when he asked his daughter and her friends were doing on their phones. "My daughter looked up at me and said: 'Dad, have you seen this app? It’s called Snapchat ... you take pictures, send them to your friends, and they disappear in 10 seconds.'" Eggers, who is the chair of the school's growth fund, said his conversation with his daughter sparked his interest and marked the beginning of the journey that him to the two young entrepreneurs at Stanford University who founded Snapchat. He is also one of the founders of the investment firm Lightspeed Venture Capital and, along with his partner Jeremy Liew, Eggers led the company to invest in two funding rounds for Snap in 2012, worth $15.2 million then and approximately $3.2 billion today, according to Business Insider. Lightspeed was joined by the SF Growth Fund, though it’s unclear how much the fund invested in Snap. Saint Francis High School released a statement today to share the "momentous news" of Snap's public offering success with its students, parents, faculty and staff. The statement said the impact of the return will allow the school to focus on their commitment to "make Catholic education more affordable and accessible to our community, recruit and retain outstanding faculty and staff, and develop innovative programs and facilities." This morning Snapchat’s parent company, Snap, debuted on the New York Stock Exchange and began trading at $24 a share, a 40 percent increase from its IPO price, which gives Snap a market valuation of more than $30 billion. Shares                  Catholic high school could make millions on Snap public offering   ANALYSIS: Administration can't shake itself out of Russia pattern   Sessions used political funds for RNC convention expenses   Trump touts plans to bolster military aboard new aircraft carrier   Irish nationalists seek boost in Northern Ireland election   GOP, Dem foes of health care bill in scavenger hunt for copy   Briles says he didn't cover up sexual assaults at Baylor   Timeline of investigation into Kim Jong Nam's apparent assassination   US airstrikes conducted in Yemen overnight   Suspected gang member arrests related to Long Island teen murders   4-year-old wrestler runs away from competitor   Cat rescued from inside chimney: 'She was just happy to be out of there'   2-year-old with heart defect invited to senior prom   Photos mistakenly donated to Goodwill returned to owner   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Oregon lawmakers push to protect pot users' info from US   Iranian film hails demise of US Navy in imagined Gulf battle   Sweden institutes military draft for both men and women   Serbian presidential vote set for April 2; Vucic favored   Video purports to show deadly encounter between Georgia teen and deputies   Judge blocks release of Orlando nightclub gunman's widow   Police looking for man in connection with woman's fatal stabbing in Nashville   Tom Hanks sends new espresso machine to White House press corps   Beloved railroad seen in 'La La Land' chugging back to life   Accountants connected to Oscars mix-up will not work show again   Arnold Schwarzenegger reflects on affair, Twitter feud with Trump   Former NAACP leader Rachel Dolezal gets new African name   Jailing of officers shakes Baltimore criminal justice system   Jane Fonda reveals past rape and sexual abuse   Katie Holmes speaks out about giving daughter Suri a 'stable' childhood   What's new at the Epcot Flower and Garden Festival

For the students of Saint Francis High School, there’s about to be another reason to love Snapchat: the school is likely to make big bucks on the public offering of the popular social media app's parent company.

Once Snap, the parent of Snapchat, goes public, the high school is likely to earn "tens of millions of dollars" in return, according to a report by The Information.

Snap was initially priced at $17 per share. At 200 million shares, the company was valued at close to $24 billion.

The SF Growth Fund, the school’s endowment fund, was reportedly one of Snap’s first investors in 2012. The investment fund was meant to benefit student scholarships and tuition subsidies.

So how did a private Catholic school in Mountain View think to get in on one of the earliest investment rounds in Snap?

It started when Barry Eggers’ then teenage daughter, Natalie, a former student at Saint Francis, mentioned the messaging app called Snapchat that was quickly becoming one of her favorites.

Eggers said it was almost exactly five years ago, when he asked his daughter and her friends were doing on their phones.

"My daughter looked up at me and said: 'Dad, have you seen this app? It’s called Snapchat ... you take pictures, send them to your friends, and they disappear in 10 seconds.'"

Eggers, who is the chair of the school's growth fund, said his conversation with his daughter sparked his interest and marked the beginning of the journey that him to the two young entrepreneurs at Stanford University who founded Snapchat.

He is also one of the founders of the investment firm Lightspeed Venture Capital and, along with his partner Jeremy Liew, Eggers led the company to invest in two funding rounds for Snap in 2012, worth $15.2 million then and approximately $3.2 billion today, according to Business Insider.

Lightspeed was joined by the SF Growth Fund, though it’s unclear how much the fund invested in Snap.

Saint Francis High School released a statement today to share the "momentous news" of Snap's public offering success with its students, parents, faculty and staff.

The statement said the impact of the return will allow the school to focus on their commitment to "make Catholic education more affordable and accessible to our community, recruit and retain outstanding faculty and staff, and develop innovative programs and facilities."

This morning Snapchat’s parent company, Snap, debuted on the New York Stock Exchange and began trading at $24 a share, a 40 percent increase from its IPO price, which gives Snap a market valuation of more than $30 billion.