Centrelink debt recovery: Digital Transformation Agency 'locked out' from myGov, robodebt scheme



Centrelink debt recovery: Digital Transformation Agency 'locked out' from myGov, robodebt scheme

Updated

The digital agency set up to improve online government services never worked on Centrelink's automated debt recovery system and was "locked out" by the Human Services Department from working on the myGov website, according to the digital office's former chief executive.

The myGov portal is one of the government's premier websites and was a key platform in Centrelink's controversial debt recovery system.

Paul Shetler, who resigned from the Digital Transformation Agency (DTA) in November, said the first his office heard of the debt recovery program was through media reporting.

"I found out, and I think pretty much everybody in DTA pretty much found out about it when it was in the papers," he told Background Briefing.

For a Department of Human Services project, that didn't surprise him.

"Generally speaking they were difficult to work with and very, very defensive. 'Nothing is wrong, everything is good, the house is burning down but everything is fine.'"

The assistant minister in charge of the DTA, Angus Taylor, said the agency has since made improvements to both myGov and Centrelink's debt recovery system.

"We have a terrific relationship now with the Department of Human Services, and I'll give you a good example: some work we've done together on myGov," he said.

'We would have failed it'

Mr Shetler suspects the DHS did not invite the DTA to work on Centrelink's debt recovery system because of the system's flaws.

"It's pretty clear we would have failed it early on," he said.

Known to its critics as "robodebt", the system has automatically sent out over 200,000 income discrepancy letters after detecting mismatches between Centrelink and ATO income data.

The Government says four out of five letters turn up debts. Critics say that's evidence of a 20 per cent failure rate.

"It's quite clear that it's not working well," Mr Shetler told RN Breakfast in January.

"If you're looking at a 20 per cent failure rate, that company, if it was operating in a free market, would go out of business for very obvious reasons, and if it didn't go out of business it would be shut down by regulators for fraud."

According to Mr Shetler, if the DTA had been involved, the advice to Centrelink would have been clear.

"If you are doing silly things like trying to match mismatching data sets, then we would call that out very early in the process rather than at the end of it and have to deal with the fiasco."

Dispute over the role of the DTA

However, assistant minister Angus Taylor told Background Briefing the DTA wasn't involved because it wasn't within their remit.

"That hasn't been the DTA's role. It is now," he said.

"The DTA's role initially has been to create platforms for other agencies to use.

"The role of the DTA is now changing and it's playing a significant role in oversight of all government projects but that that was a restructuring that was done very late last year and is going into place now."

Mr Shetler disagrees: "If you look at the things Malcolm Turnbull published at the time ... it was always about the user experience of government. Now this is a clear case where the user experience is poor."

The DTA was established in 2015 by Mr Turnbull, then the communications minister, to make sure "citizens can engage with government on digital platforms as easily and conveniently as they do with their banks and e-commerce vendors".

Frustration with DHS

Mr Shetler left the DTA after 18 months in the job, frustrated, he says, because he could not achieve the changes he was brought in to make.

Key among his frustrations was DHS's reluctance to hand over control of the government's premier online portal, myGov.

Anyone who received one of Centrelink's controversial letters was asked to respond through myGov.

The government removed that requirement in February, following reported problems.

"It was sort of one of these things where they give you authority in name only but without any ability to do anything on it," said Mr Shetler.

"We had no idea what they were actually doing. We had no visibility into the product plan, we had no visibility into the development plans, we didn't know how they were testing it.

"We were just locked out."

Topics: welfare, community-and-society, government-and-politics, political-parties, social-policy, australia

First posted