The Lumineers' 'Cleopatra' Climbs to No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart
The Lumineers' 'Cleopatra' Climbs to No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart
The Lumineers' 'Cleopatra' Climbs to No. 1 on Alternative Songs Chart  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The trio earns its third total leader, and second from its latest album. The Lumineers snag their third No. 1 on 's Alternative Songs airplay chart, as "Cleopatra," the second single from the folk-rock trio's sophomore album of the same name, climbs 2-1 (on the chart dated March 11). Previously, the band led with lead single "Ophelia," for four weeks in 2016, while the act's first hit single "Ho Hey" reigned for two weeks in 2012. "Cleopatra" scaled the Adult Alternative Songs airplay chart prior to its Alternative Songs domination, peaking at No. 2 for five weeks in October and November (after "Ophelia" led the list for 11 weeks). That format has already welcomed 's third single: "Angela" ascends 22-18 in its second week on the chart.  On the all-rock-format Rock Airplay, "Cleopatra" returns to its No. 3 peak, attaining a new high in audience (8 million impressions in the week ending Feb. 26, up 5 percent, according to Nielsen Music). became The Lumineers' first No. 1 on the Billboard 200 in April 2016. The group's self-titled breakthrough LP hit No. 2 in 2013. The sets led the Top Rock Albums chart for two weeks and one week, respectively.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The trio earns its third total leader, and second from its latest album.

The Lumineers snag their third No. 1 on Billboard's Alternative Songs airplay chart, as "Cleopatra," the second single from the folk-rock trio's sophomore album of the same name, climbs 2-1 (on the chart dated March 11).



Previously, the band led with Cleopatra lead single "Ophelia," for four weeks in 2016, while the act's first hit single "Ho Hey" reigned for two weeks in 2012.

"Cleopatra" scaled the Adult Alternative Songs airplay chart prior to its Alternative Songs domination, peaking at No. 2 for five weeks in October and November (after "Ophelia" led the list for 11 weeks). That format has already welcomed Cleopatra's third single: "Angela" ascends 22-18 in its second week on the chart.

On the all-rock-format Rock Airplay, "Cleopatra" returns to its No. 3 peak, attaining a new high in audience (8 million impressions in the week ending Feb. 26, up 5 percent, according to Nielsen Music).



Cleopatra became The Lumineers' first No. 1 on the Billboard 200 in April 2016. The group's self-titled breakthrough LP hit No. 2 in 2013. The sets led the Top Rock Albums chart for two weeks and one week, respectively.