Lisa Kudrow Apparently Wasn’t ‘F**kable’ Enough For One ‘Friends’ Guest Star
Lisa Kudrow Wasn’t ‘F**kable’ Enough For One ‘Friends’ Guest Star
Lisa Kudrow has dished on some hot “ Friends ” gossip while making the rounds promoting her new film, “Table 19.” On last night’s episode of “ Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen ,” a fan called in to ask the actress about the worst behavior she’d experienced from a guest star on the hit sitcom. “The worst behavior just off the top of my head?” Kudrow replied. “I rehearsed without makeup most of the week and then on show night I’m in hair and makeup and I was told, ‘Oh, wow, now you’re’ — can I say it? ― ‘now you’re f**kable.’” “That’s bad behavior, I say,” she told host Cohen and fellow guest Jennifer Beals. When Beals asked if Kudrow retaliated, the actress said she told Matt LeBlanc about the comment because “he’s like a big brother.” Unfortunately, the Phoebe Buffay actress didn’t name any names, leaving us to ponder the possible suspects. She did, however, later reveal that it was not Charlie Sheen, so you can cross him off the list. Earlier this week, Kudrow paid a visit to the “ Today ” show, where she admitted ― to the dismay of “Friends” fans everywhere ― that she doesn’t see a reunion or revival happening anytime soon . “I don’t see it happening. It would be fun, but what would it be about? Think about it,” Kudrow told host Savannah Guthrie. “The thing we liked best about the show was that they were 20-somethings, they were their own family. Now, they all have families, so what are we going to watch?” ALSO ON HUFFPOST: 'Friends' Fashion       Share this slide:       MORE:

Lisa Kudrow has dished on some hot “Friends” gossip while making the rounds promoting her new film, “Table 19.”

On last night’s episode of “Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen,” a fan called in to ask the actress about the worst behavior she’d experienced from a guest star on the hit sitcom.

“The worst behavior just off the top of my head?” Kudrow replied. “I rehearsed without makeup most of the week and then on show night I’m in hair and makeup and I was told, ‘Oh, wow, now you’re’ — can I say it? ― ‘now you’re f**kable.’”

“That’s bad behavior, I say,” she told host Cohen and fellow guest Jennifer Beals. When Beals asked if Kudrow retaliated, the actress said she told Matt LeBlanc about the comment because “he’s like a big brother.”

Unfortunately, the Phoebe Buffay actress didn’t name any names, leaving us to ponder the possible suspects. She did, however, later reveal that it was not Charlie Sheen, so you can cross him off the list.

Earlier this week, Kudrow paid a visit to the “Today” show, where she admitted ― to the dismay of “Friends” fans everywhere ― that she doesn’t see a reunion or revival happening anytime soon.