Wedding dress made from Taco Bell burrito wrappers is anything but mild
Wedding dress made from Taco Bell burrito wrappers is anything but mild
Diane Nguyen is on a quest to prove her love ... of Taco Bell. The bride-to-be and her fiancé, Nick Ward, want to win a wedding at Las Vegas' Taco Bell Church, a prize currently up for grabs in the fast food chain's Love and Tacos contest . So, to stand out from the crowd, Nguyen did what any ambitious bride would do: she made a wedding dress out of burrito wrappers. SEE ALSO: The cutest great-grandma busts out the best moves at her 100th birthday party Talk about living más, right? A post shared by Diane Nguyen (@dianesaurusrex) on According to a Reddit post from Nguyen, the wrappers were donated by a local Taco Bell manager. (They were fresh ones, BTW, so don't fret.) And after what was surely many hours of twisting, affixing and shaping, the final product is anything but mild. In fact, one might call it ... fire. So why would anyone want to get married at Taco Bell? For Nguyen, it's personal. "Taco Bell has been there through the years, from the after school runs, to late meals after work (or a night of partying)," she wrote in an Instagram post . "Our love for each other is as cheesy as a quesadilla. We’re nachos getting married, it’s going to be a Las Vegas tacover. Lettuce celebrate our love at the Taco Bell Chapel in Vegas, cuz we are ready to guac and roll." How could you not vote for her after all those puns? BONUS: Learn how to play the guitar in 60 seconds thanks to this musical system

Diane Nguyen is on a quest to prove her love ... of Taco Bell.

The bride-to-be and her fiancé, Nick Ward, want to win a wedding at Las Vegas' Taco Bell Church, a prize currently up for grabs in the fast food chain's Love and Tacos contest. So, to stand out from the crowd, Nguyen did what any ambitious bride would do: she made a wedding dress out of burrito wrappers.

Talk about living más, right?

A post shared by Diane Nguyen (@dianesaurusrex) on Feb 26, 2017 at 8:51pm PST

According to a Reddit post from Nguyen, the wrappers were donated by a local Taco Bell manager. (They were fresh ones, BTW, so don't fret.)

And after what was surely many hours of twisting, affixing and shaping, the final product is anything but mild. In fact, one might call it ... fire.

So why would anyone want to get married at Taco Bell? For Nguyen, it's personal.

"Taco Bell has been there through the years, from the after school runs, to late meals after work (or a night of partying)," she wrote in an Instagram post. "Our love for each other is as cheesy as a quesadilla. We’re nachos getting married, it’s going to be a Las Vegas tacover. Lettuce celebrate our love at the Taco Bell Chapel in Vegas, cuz we are ready to guac and roll."

How could you not vote for her after all those puns?