Man buried alive speaks from beyond the grave
Man buried alive speaks from beyond the grave
A former alcoholic and drug addict was buried at a parish church in Belfast on Wednesday—except he is still alive and is broadcasting online from beyond the grave. John Edwards, 72, is performing the stunt as part of his Walking Free project, which gives support to people suffering addiction or suicidal thoughts. He is spending three days underground at Willowfield parish church to promote the cause, and will take calls throughout. "We are trying to get across the message that you need not be in a coffin prematurely, there is help there and you can overcome addiction and illness. I was locked into addiction for 25 years," he told the . UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    28 February 2017   Maddy Hinch from Maidenhead, a member of Britain's Olympic gold medal-winning women's hockey team, is made an MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) by the Duke of Cambridge at Buckingham Palace   PA wire     28 February 2017   Members of Britain's Olympic gold medal-winning women's hockey team; Sophie Bray, Nicola White, Alex Danson and Maddie Hinch at Buckingham Palace in central London, after receiving their MBEs from the Duke of Cambridge   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Kylie Hutchison, from law firm Irwin Mitchell, reads a statement on behalf of the relatives of the victims of the Tunisia Terror attack outside the Royal Courts of Justice in London. A coroner has ruled the deaths of 30 Britons killed by gunman on a Tunisian beach in June 2015 were unlawfully killed   EPA     28 February 2017   Britain's Queen Elizabeth II receives flowers from a child as she attends the official opening of a new development at the Charterhouse in London.
The Charterhouse, located adjacent to the ancient boundaries of the City of London in Clerkenwell, was originally constructed in 1371 on the site of a Black Death burial ground. The building began life as a Cathusian monastery, which flourished during the late Medieval and early Tudor period. In more recent times it has served as an almshouse. Residents of the almshouse are known as 'brothers.' With a minimum age of sixty, they are selected from a range of professions including education, the clergy, and the arts. Those who become brothers are considered in need of financial support   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Lewis Hamilton of Great Britain driving the (44) Mercedes AMG Petronas F1 Team Mercedes F1 WO8 on track during day two of Formula One winter testing at Circuit de Catalunya in Montmelo, Spain   Getty Images     27 February 2017   Irene Clennell speaking to her relatives in the arrival hall of Changi Airport in Singapore. 52 year-old Irene Clennell was deported back to Singapore from Britain after her Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) permit, a visa extended to foreign born spouses of British citizens, expired and was not renewed. She moved to Britain in 1990 after marrying her husband, John Clennell, before returning to Singapore to take care of her late mother. After moving back to Britain 1999, her applications for an extension of her IRL were rejected as the lapse in her stay in Britain exceeded the two-year limit. Clennell, who has two sons and an infant granddaughter, will take the case to the European Court of Justice   EPA     27 February 2017   Irene Clennell wiping tears as she speaks to reporters in the arrival hall of Changi Airport in Singapore   EPA     23 February 2017   British Prime Minister Theresa May welcomes his Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, on the steps of No.10 Downing Street in London   EPA     23 February 2017   A rainbow over the Nottingham Wheel in the Old Market Square, as Storm Doris reached nearly 90mph on its way to batter Britain   PA wire     23 February 2017   British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has his tie straightened by his Australian counterpart Foreign Minister Julie Bishop in his office at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in Westminster, London   Getty Images     23 February 2017   A plane lands at Leeds Bradford Airport in heavy wind as flights have been cancelled and commuters were warned they faced delays after Storm Doris reached nearly 90mph on its way to batter Britain   PA wire     23 February 2017   The process of recovery of the body of Helen Bailey who was found in a cesspit deep below the couple's 1.5 million pound home in Royston, Hertfordshire   Hertfordshire Constabulary/PA Wire     20 February 2017   Satirical artist Kaya Mar during a Flag Mobí in Parliament Square, central London, as part of One Day Without Us, a national day of action in support of migrants   PA wire     19 February 2017   Models wear creations by designer Pam Hogg during a presentation at the Fashion Scout venue, during London Fashion Week in London, England   Getty Images     19 February 2017   A guest works her way through the crowds following a presentation by designer Pam Hogg at the Fashion Scout venue, during London Fashion Week in London, England   Getty Images     18 February 2017   Models are prepared by the hair and make-up teams backstage, ahead of a presentation by designer Julien Macdonald, during London Fashion Week in London, England   Getty Images     14 February 2017   The sun rises behind Tower Bridge in London   PA wire  Round-the-clock security is in place for Mr Edwards, who admitted being buried alive, even voluntarily, was "very freaky". Food, air and water are supplied by tubes leading down from the surface and Mr Edwards' coffin is better appointed than most, featuring a small light, a caravan toilet and his hot water bottle. It is the second time he has been buried alive, the reported, the first stunt having taken place in Halifax last year. More about: Addiction Comments

A former alcoholic and drug addict was buried at a parish church in Belfast on Wednesday—except he is still alive and is broadcasting online from beyond the grave.

John Edwards, 72, is performing the stunt as part of his Walking Free project, which gives support to people suffering addiction or suicidal thoughts. He is spending three days underground at Willowfield parish church to promote the cause, and will take calls throughout.

"We are trying to get across the message that you need not be in a coffin prematurely, there is help there and you can overcome addiction and illness. I was locked into addiction for 25 years," he told the Belfast Telegraph.

UK news in pictures







17 show all UK news in pictures































1/17 28 February 2017 Maddy Hinch from Maidenhead, a member of Britain's Olympic gold medal-winning women's hockey team, is made an MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) by the Duke of Cambridge at Buckingham Palace PA wire

2/17 28 February 2017 Members of Britain's Olympic gold medal-winning women's hockey team; Sophie Bray, Nicola White, Alex Danson and Maddie Hinch at Buckingham Palace in central London, after receiving their MBEs from the Duke of Cambridge Getty Images

3/17 28 February 2017 Kylie Hutchison, from law firm Irwin Mitchell, reads a statement on behalf of the relatives of the victims of the Tunisia Terror attack outside the Royal Courts of Justice in London. A coroner has ruled the deaths of 30 Britons killed by gunman on a Tunisian beach in June 2015 were unlawfully killed EPA

4/17 28 February 2017 Britain's Queen Elizabeth II receives flowers from a child as she attends the official opening of a new development at the Charterhouse in London. The Charterhouse, located adjacent to the ancient boundaries of the City of London in Clerkenwell, was originally constructed in 1371 on the site of a Black Death burial ground. The building began life as a Cathusian monastery, which flourished during the late Medieval and early Tudor period. In more recent times it has served as an almshouse. Residents of the almshouse are known as 'brothers.' With a minimum age of sixty, they are selected from a range of professions including education, the clergy, and the arts. Those who become brothers are considered in need of financial support Getty Images

5/17 28 February 2017 Lewis Hamilton of Great Britain driving the (44) Mercedes AMG Petronas F1 Team Mercedes F1 WO8 on track during day two of Formula One winter testing at Circuit de Catalunya in Montmelo, Spain Getty Images

6/17 27 February 2017 Irene Clennell speaking to her relatives in the arrival hall of Changi Airport in Singapore. 52 year-old Irene Clennell was deported back to Singapore from Britain after her Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) permit, a visa extended to foreign born spouses of British citizens, expired and was not renewed. She moved to Britain in 1990 after marrying her husband, John Clennell, before returning to Singapore to take care of her late mother. After moving back to Britain 1999, her applications for an extension of her IRL were rejected as the lapse in her stay in Britain exceeded the two-year limit. Clennell, who has two sons and an infant granddaughter, will take the case to the European Court of Justice EPA

7/17 27 February 2017 Irene Clennell wiping tears as she speaks to reporters in the arrival hall of Changi Airport in Singapore EPA

8/17 23 February 2017 British Prime Minister Theresa May welcomes his Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, on the steps of No.10 Downing Street in London EPA

9/17 23 February 2017 A rainbow over the Nottingham Wheel in the Old Market Square, as Storm Doris reached nearly 90mph on its way to batter Britain PA wire

10/17 23 February 2017 British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has his tie straightened by his Australian counterpart Foreign Minister Julie Bishop in his office at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in Westminster, London Getty Images

11/17 23 February 2017 A plane lands at Leeds Bradford Airport in heavy wind as flights have been cancelled and commuters were warned they faced delays after Storm Doris reached nearly 90mph on its way to batter Britain PA wire

12/17 23 February 2017 The process of recovery of the body of Helen Bailey who was found in a cesspit deep below the couple's 1.5 million pound home in Royston, Hertfordshire Hertfordshire Constabulary/PA Wire

13/17 20 February 2017 Satirical artist Kaya Mar during a Flag Mobí in Parliament Square, central London, as part of One Day Without Us, a national day of action in support of migrants PA wire

14/17 19 February 2017 Models wear creations by designer Pam Hogg during a presentation at the Fashion Scout venue, during London Fashion Week in London, England Getty Images

15/17 19 February 2017 A guest works her way through the crowds following a presentation by designer Pam Hogg at the Fashion Scout venue, during London Fashion Week in London, England Getty Images

16/17 18 February 2017 Models are prepared by the hair and make-up teams backstage, ahead of a presentation by designer Julien Macdonald, during London Fashion Week in London, England Getty Images

17/17 14 February 2017 The sun rises behind Tower Bridge in London PA wire

Round-the-clock security is in place for Mr Edwards, who admitted being buried alive, even voluntarily, was "very freaky".

Food, air and water are supplied by tubes leading down from the surface and Mr Edwards' coffin is better appointed than most, featuring a small light, a caravan toilet and his hot water bottle.

It is the second time he has been buried alive, the Telegraph reported, the first stunt having taken place in Halifax last year.