Stream Ed Sheeran's Third Studio Album, '÷'
Stream Ed Sheeran's Third Studio Album, '÷' 
After a four-month delay, Ed Sheeran ’s third studio album ÷ has arrived. The U.K. singer officially announced the project back in January, shortly after he released its lead singles "Shape of You" and "Castle on the Hill.” Each of the tracks were well received, and, according to , broke Spotify’s record for the most streams in a day. Sheeran later revealed the project’s opening track “Eraser” and then shared “How Would You Feel (Paean)” for his 26th birthday—generating more excitement for the long-awaited album. is the follow-up to Sheeran’s 2014 album x. The singer told the project was initially scheduled to drop last November; however, he said he was concerned the 2016 election results would overshadow its release. "The plan was to come in September and then the album was meant to come in November, but the week the album was coming out was the week the presidential elections—that was just a shit storm of media, and I was like obviously if I come out with a record then no one's gonna care," he explained . "And then the week after Bruno [Mars] came out, the week after The Weeknd came out and I was like..." His fans will soon decide if it was worth the wait. ÷ is available on Apple Music and iTunes here .

After a four-month delay, Ed Sheeran’s third studio album ÷ has arrived.

The U.K. singer officially announced the project back in January, shortly after he released its lead singles "Shape of You" and "Castle on the Hill.” Each of the tracks were well received, and, according to Billboard, broke Spotify’s record for the most streams in a day. Sheeran later revealed the project’s opening track “Eraser” and then shared “How Would You Feel (Paean)” for his 26th birthday—generating more excitement for the long-awaited album.

÷ is the follow-up to Sheeran’s 2014 album x. The singer told Billboard the project was initially scheduled to drop last November; however, he said he was concerned the 2016 election results would overshadow its release.

"The plan was to come in September and then the album was meant to come in November, but the week the album was coming out was the week the presidential elections—that was just a shit storm of media, and I was like obviously if I come out with a record then no one's gonna care," he explained. "And then the week after Bruno [Mars] came out, the week after The Weeknd came out and I was like..."

His fans will soon decide if it was worth the wait.

÷ is available on Apple Music and iTunes here.