Kareena Kapoor Khan Gets Candid About Baby Taimur Like Never Before
Bebo Speaks About Baby Taimur Like Never Before
Kareena Kapoor Khan Gets Candid About Baby Taimur Like Never Before Whether it was her pregnancy or enjoying her time with little Taimur, Kareena Kapoor Khan knows way too well how to break stereotypes despite being a married actress and a mother. A thorough professional that she has always been, Kareena has begun her string of photo-shoots, endorsements and making public appearances. She is also gearing up for her film with Sonam Kapoor, (Also read: 8 Times Mom-To-Be Kareena Kapoor Khan Impressed Us With Her Style And Grace ) Media firstly hounded Kareena with questions around Saif's Rangoon debacle but Queen of comebacks had an epic answer to give. Talking about Rangoon's failure, she said, Kareena was also asked about the on-going rumours of her calling Taimur, Little John. She chuckled and clarified, "No. I want to clarify that. How can anyone think that? Why would I call my son Little John? My son’s name is Taimur. It is the most beautiful name, and he is the most beautiful and gorgeous man (smiles). And, no, I don’t call him Little John. Please address him as Taimur Ali Khan." Well, you have all the answers from the horse's mouth.

Whether it was her pregnancy or enjoying her time with little Taimur, Kareena Kapoor Khan knows way too well how to break stereotypes despite being a married actress and a mother.

Pinterest

A thorough professional that she has always been, Kareena has begun her string of photo-shoots, endorsements and making public appearances. She is also gearing up for her film with Sonam Kapoor, Veere Di Wedding.

(Also read: 8 Times Mom-To-Be Kareena Kapoor Khan Impressed Us With Her Style And Grace)

Kareena who was present at a channel launch event in Mumbai finally addressed the media about all the rumours surrounding her child and Saif Ali Khan.

Media firstly hounded Kareena with questions around Saif's Rangoon debacle but Queen of comebacks had an epic answer to give. Talking about Rangoon's failure, she said,

Twitter/Kareena's fan clubs

“Vishal Bhardwaj’s films are art, it is like a painting. You either like his films or you don’t. It is not like a typical commercial film that is going to cater to everybody’s taste and sensibilities, he caters to a certain section of the audience and that is why some critics have revered it and called it a piece of art. Vishal Bhardwaj is known for that. So when you do a film like that, with a lot of love for cinema, the actors get a lot of appreciation. Some films are beyond box-office collections.”

Kareena was also asked about the on-going rumours of her calling Taimur, Little John. She chuckled and clarified,

Agencies

"No. I want to clarify that. How can anyone think that? Why would I call my son Little John? My son’s name is Taimur. It is the most beautiful name, and he is the most beautiful and gorgeous man (smiles). And, no, I don’t call him Little John. Please address him as Taimur Ali Khan."

Well, you have all the answers from the horse's mouth.

Don't Miss 9.5 K SHARES 25.9 K SHARES 25.8 K SHARES 15.8 K SHARES 36.3 K SHARES