Sir Bruce Forsyth spends five days in intensive care with chest infection
Sir Bruce Forsyth spends five days in intensive care with chest infection
ir Bruce Forsyth has spent five nights in intensive care with a severe chest infection, according to reports. The TV presenter, who stepped down from hosting Strictly Come Dancing in 2014 , was rushed to hospital on Sunday after falling ill and has remained in ICU since then. However the 89-year-old, who is believed to be in a stable condition, is expected to return to his Surrey home on Friday to be tended to by his wife Wilnelia. "Bruce came down with an infection last weekend, and it rapidly escalated into something very, very serious," a friend of the star told the Daily Mail . "He was put straight into ICU because of his age, and the nature of his illness. He was in a lot of pain, but has been very stoical throughout. "Of course, because he is nearly 90, doctors had to take extra precautions and Bruce had to stay in intensive care for a minimum of five nights. "Wilnelia was by his bedside virtually the entire time, and has been amazing. Now Bruce just wants to get home, and slowly build his strength back up again. He remains in great spirits." hile treating chest infections is usually relatively straightforward, it can be extremely serious in elderly people who have less robust immune systems. Sir Bruce has been plagued with a number of illnesses over the past few months, including having to undergo key hole surgery in 2015 to treat two life-threatening aneurysms. Last year Lady Forsyth revealed he had been having difficulty moving following the operation.

Sir Bruce Forsyth has spent five nights in intensive care with a severe chest infection, according to reports.

The TV presenter, who stepped down from hosting Strictly Come Dancing in 2014, was rushed to hospital on Sunday after falling ill and has remained in ICU since then.

However the 89-year-old, who is believed to be in a stable condition, is expected to return to his Surrey home on Friday to be tended to by his wife Wilnelia.