Stephen Curry Passes Kobe Bryant for 11th Most 3-Pointers in NBA History
Stephen Curry Passes Kobe Bryant for 11th Most 3-Pointers in NBA History
Golden State Warriors point guard Stephen Curry continued his assault on the record books Thursday, passing Kobe Bryant for 11th all-time in made three-pointers. Curry knocked down the shot in the third quarter of Thursday's game against the Chicago Bulls . The three gave the Warriors a 63-59 lead midway through the period. With this 3 Steph Curry passed Kobe Bryant for 11th on the all-time 3-Point FG list! #ThisIsWhyWePlay https://t.co/HqKZPO7zxb Curry, 28, may own every three-point record by the time his career is finished. I e set the NBA record for most threes made (402) and attempted (886) in a single season. And he trails only Steve Kerr (45.4 percent) and Hubert Davis (44.0 percent) in career three-point percentage as Curry has made 43.8 percent of his shots from beyond the arc. The all-time record for made three-pointers is within his grasp, too. Ray Allen currently holds the record with 2,973 made three-point field goals, a mark Curry could feasibly break within the next five years. Given that Golden State's sharpshooter has made at least 230 threes in five straight seasons, he's on pace to catch Allen before long. You likely won't find many folks betting against the two-time defending MVP and four-time All-Star. Still, Curry's mindset will be on leading the Warriors to their second NBA title in the past three seasons. With Kevin Durant in the fold, the Warriors have been the favorites to do just that since the summer. But along the way, Curry might move up a few more spots on the three-point leaderboard. He now has Chauncey Billups (1,830 threes) and Joe Johnson (1,902 threes) in his crosshairs. As the Warriors continue to win, Curry continues to carve his name into the record books. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Noah Graham/Getty Images

Golden State Warriors point guard Stephen Curry continued his assault on the record books Thursday, passing Kobe Bryant for 11th all-time in made three-pointers.

Curry knocked down the shot in the third quarter of Thursday's game against the Chicago Bulls. The three gave the Warriors a 63-59 lead midway through the period.

Curry, 28, may own every three-point record by the time his career is finished. In 2015-16, he set the NBA record for most threes made (402) and attempted (886) in a single season. And he trails only Steve Kerr (45.4 percent) and Hubert Davis (44.0 percent) in career three-point percentage as Curry has made 43.8 percent of his shots from beyond the arc.

The all-time record for made three-pointers is within his grasp, too. Ray Allen currently holds the record with 2,973 made three-point field goals, a mark Curry could feasibly break within the next five years. Given that Golden State's sharpshooter has made at least 230 threes in five straight seasons, he's on pace to catch Allen before long.

You likely won't find many folks betting against the two-time defending MVP and four-time All-Star.

Still, Curry's mindset will be on leading the Warriors to their second NBA title in the past three seasons. With Kevin Durant in the fold, the Warriors have been the favorites to do just that since the summer.

But along the way, Curry might move up a few more spots on the three-point leaderboard. He now has Chauncey Billups (1,830 threes) and Joe Johnson (1,902 threes) in his crosshairs. As the Warriors continue to win, Curry continues to carve his name into the record books.