Rod Stewart clarifies 'mock execution' video: We were playing Game of Thrones
Rod Stewart clarifies 'mock execution' video: We were playing Game of Thrones
Popular videos    Baseball player stops bat hitting teammates with one-handed catch      The Chicken Connoisseur is in New York now rolling with A$AP Bari      MEP says women are ‘smaller, weaker' and 'less intelligent’      Melania reads line ‘You'll be as famous as famous can be' to sick kids   Sir Rod Stewart ’s wife Penny Lancaster has shared a video of the musician that first appeared to mimic an Isis execution in the Abu Dhabi desert. In the bizarre footage, the 72-year-old can be seen appearing to make a cutting gesture across a friend’s neck as he kneels on the sand. The clip, which was posted on Lancaster’s Instagram page but has now been deleted, begins by showing a group of people trekking across the sand dunes in a line. It then shows them frolicking in the dunes, trying to balance and rolling down the slope. Sir Rod, dressed in a white shirt and sunglasses, can then be glimpsed talking to another man who kneels in front of him. Placing his hands on the unknown man’s shoulders, he appears to make a cutting motion across his throat. The singer has apologised for his actions and insisted he was just “larking” about before his performance at an arena concert in the capital of the United Arab Emirates and reenacting a scene. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    28 February 2017   Maddy Hinch from Maidenhead, a member of Britain's Olympic gold medal-winning women's hockey team, is made an MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) by the Duke of Cambridge at Buckingham Palace   PA wire     28 February 2017   Members of Britain's Olympic gold medal-winning women's hockey team; Sophie Bray, Nicola White, Alex Danson and Maddie Hinch at Buckingham Palace in central London, after receiving their MBEs from the Duke of Cambridge   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Kylie Hutchison, from law firm Irwin Mitchell, reads a statement on behalf of the relatives of the victims of the Tunisia Terror attack outside the Royal Courts of Justice in London. A coroner has ruled the deaths of 30 Britons killed by gunman on a Tunisian beach in June 2015 were unlawfully killed   EPA     28 February 2017   Britain's Queen Elizabeth II receives flowers from a child as she attends the official opening of a new development at the Charterhouse in London.
The Charterhouse, located adjacent to the ancient boundaries of the City of London in Clerkenwell, was originally constructed in 1371 on the site of a Black Death burial ground. The building began life as a Cathusian monastery, which flourished during the late Medieval and early Tudor period. In more recent times it has served as an almshouse. Residents of the almshouse are known as 'brothers.' With a minimum age of sixty, they are selected from a range of professions including education, the clergy, and the arts. Those who become brothers are considered in need of financial support   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Lewis Hamilton of Great Britain driving the (44) Mercedes AMG Petronas F1 Team Mercedes F1 WO8 on track during day two of Formula One winter testing at Circuit de Catalunya in Montmelo, Spain   Getty Images     27 February 2017   Irene Clennell speaking to her relatives in the arrival hall of Changi Airport in Singapore. 52 year-old Irene Clennell was deported back to Singapore from Britain after her Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) permit, a visa extended to foreign born spouses of British citizens, expired and was not renewed. She moved to Britain in 1990 after marrying her husband, John Clennell, before returning to Singapore to take care of her late mother. After moving back to Britain 1999, her applications for an extension of her IRL were rejected as the lapse in her stay in Britain exceeded the two-year limit. Clennell, who has two sons and an infant granddaughter, will take the case to the European Court of Justice   EPA     27 February 2017   Irene Clennell wiping tears as she speaks to reporters in the arrival hall of Changi Airport in Singapore   EPA     23 February 2017   British Prime Minister Theresa May welcomes his Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, on the steps of No.10 Downing Street in London   EPA     23 February 2017   A rainbow over the Nottingham Wheel in the Old Market Square, as Storm Doris reached nearly 90mph on its way to batter Britain   PA wire     23 February 2017   British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has his tie straightened by his Australian counterpart Foreign Minister Julie Bishop in his office at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in Westminster, London   Getty Images     23 February 2017   A plane lands at Leeds Bradford Airport in heavy wind as flights have been cancelled and commuters were warned they faced delays after Storm Doris reached nearly 90mph on its way to batter Britain   PA wire     23 February 2017   The process of recovery of the body of Helen Bailey who was found in a cesspit deep below the couple's 1.5 million pound home in Royston, Hertfordshire   Hertfordshire Constabulary/PA Wire     20 February 2017   Satirical artist Kaya Mar during a Flag Mobí in Parliament Square, central London, as part of One Day Without Us, a national day of action in support of migrants   PA wire     19 February 2017   Models wear creations by designer Pam Hogg during a presentation at the Fashion Scout venue, during London Fashion Week in London, England   Getty Images     19 February 2017   A guest works her way through the crowds following a presentation by designer Pam Hogg at the Fashion Scout venue, during London Fashion Week in London, England   Getty Images     18 February 2017   Models are prepared by the hair and make-up teams backstage, ahead of a presentation by designer Julien Macdonald, during London Fashion Week in London, England   Getty Images     14 February 2017   The sun rises behind Tower Bridge in London   PA wire  "From re-enacting the Beatles' crossing to spontaneously playing out , we were simply larking about pre-show,” Sir Rod said in a statement sent to The Independent. "Understandably, this has been misinterpreted and I send my deepest apologies to those who have been offended.” Sir Rod has garnered criticism for his actions which have been labelled “deeply stupid” and “clueless” on Twitter. Executions carried out by Islamic State militants have often gained headlines. Aid worker David Haines, 44, was the first Briton beheaded by Islamic state in a video which featured Mohammed Emwazi, a Kuwait-born Briton as known as “Jihadi John”. Mr Emwazi appeared in a succession of grim online videos in which Western hostages are beheaded. More about: Sir Rod Stewart Penny Lancaster Comments

Sir Rod Stewart’s wife Penny Lancaster has shared a video of the musician that first appeared to mimic an Isis execution in the Abu Dhabi desert.

In the bizarre footage, the 72-year-old can be seen appearing to make a cutting gesture across a friend’s neck as he kneels on the sand.

The clip, which was posted on Lancaster’s Instagram page but has now been deleted, begins by showing a group of people trekking across the sand dunes in a line. It then shows them frolicking in the dunes, trying to balance and rolling down the slope.

Sir Rod, dressed in a white shirt and sunglasses, can then be glimpsed talking to another man who kneels in front of him. Placing his hands on the unknown man’s shoulders, he appears to make a cutting motion across his throat.

The singer has apologised for his actions and insisted he was just “larking” about before his performance at an arena concert in the capital of the United Arab Emirates and reenacting a Game of Thrones scene.

UK news in pictures







17 show all UK news in pictures































1/17 28 February 2017 Maddy Hinch from Maidenhead, a member of Britain's Olympic gold medal-winning women's hockey team, is made an MBE (Member of the Order of the British Empire) by the Duke of Cambridge at Buckingham Palace PA wire

2/17 28 February 2017 Members of Britain's Olympic gold medal-winning women's hockey team; Sophie Bray, Nicola White, Alex Danson and Maddie Hinch at Buckingham Palace in central London, after receiving their MBEs from the Duke of Cambridge Getty Images

3/17 28 February 2017 Kylie Hutchison, from law firm Irwin Mitchell, reads a statement on behalf of the relatives of the victims of the Tunisia Terror attack outside the Royal Courts of Justice in London. A coroner has ruled the deaths of 30 Britons killed by gunman on a Tunisian beach in June 2015 were unlawfully killed EPA

4/17 28 February 2017 Britain's Queen Elizabeth II receives flowers from a child as she attends the official opening of a new development at the Charterhouse in London. The Charterhouse, located adjacent to the ancient boundaries of the City of London in Clerkenwell, was originally constructed in 1371 on the site of a Black Death burial ground. The building began life as a Cathusian monastery, which flourished during the late Medieval and early Tudor period. In more recent times it has served as an almshouse. Residents of the almshouse are known as 'brothers.' With a minimum age of sixty, they are selected from a range of professions including education, the clergy, and the arts. Those who become brothers are considered in need of financial support Getty Images

5/17 28 February 2017 Lewis Hamilton of Great Britain driving the (44) Mercedes AMG Petronas F1 Team Mercedes F1 WO8 on track during day two of Formula One winter testing at Circuit de Catalunya in Montmelo, Spain Getty Images

6/17 27 February 2017 Irene Clennell speaking to her relatives in the arrival hall of Changi Airport in Singapore. 52 year-old Irene Clennell was deported back to Singapore from Britain after her Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) permit, a visa extended to foreign born spouses of British citizens, expired and was not renewed. She moved to Britain in 1990 after marrying her husband, John Clennell, before returning to Singapore to take care of her late mother. After moving back to Britain 1999, her applications for an extension of her IRL were rejected as the lapse in her stay in Britain exceeded the two-year limit. Clennell, who has two sons and an infant granddaughter, will take the case to the European Court of Justice EPA

7/17 27 February 2017 Irene Clennell wiping tears as she speaks to reporters in the arrival hall of Changi Airport in Singapore EPA

8/17 23 February 2017 British Prime Minister Theresa May welcomes his Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces, on the steps of No.10 Downing Street in London EPA

9/17 23 February 2017 A rainbow over the Nottingham Wheel in the Old Market Square, as Storm Doris reached nearly 90mph on its way to batter Britain PA wire

10/17 23 February 2017 British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has his tie straightened by his Australian counterpart Foreign Minister Julie Bishop in his office at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in Westminster, London Getty Images

11/17 23 February 2017 A plane lands at Leeds Bradford Airport in heavy wind as flights have been cancelled and commuters were warned they faced delays after Storm Doris reached nearly 90mph on its way to batter Britain PA wire

12/17 23 February 2017 The process of recovery of the body of Helen Bailey who was found in a cesspit deep below the couple's 1.5 million pound home in Royston, Hertfordshire Hertfordshire Constabulary/PA Wire

13/17 20 February 2017 Satirical artist Kaya Mar during a Flag Mobí in Parliament Square, central London, as part of One Day Without Us, a national day of action in support of migrants PA wire

14/17 19 February 2017 Models wear creations by designer Pam Hogg during a presentation at the Fashion Scout venue, during London Fashion Week in London, England Getty Images

15/17 19 February 2017 A guest works her way through the crowds following a presentation by designer Pam Hogg at the Fashion Scout venue, during London Fashion Week in London, England Getty Images

16/17 18 February 2017 Models are prepared by the hair and make-up teams backstage, ahead of a presentation by designer Julien Macdonald, during London Fashion Week in London, England Getty Images

17/17 14 February 2017 The sun rises behind Tower Bridge in London PA wire

"From re-enacting the Beatles' Abbey Road crossing to spontaneously playing out Game Of Thrones, we were simply larking about pre-show,” Sir Rod said in a statement sent to The Independent.

"Understandably, this has been misinterpreted and I send my deepest apologies to those who have been offended.”

Sir Rod has garnered criticism for his actions which have been labelled “deeply stupid” and “clueless” on Twitter.

Executions carried out by Islamic State militants have often gained headlines.

Aid worker David Haines, 44, was the first Briton beheaded by Islamic state in a video which featured Mohammed Emwazi, a Kuwait-born Briton as known as “Jihadi John”. Mr Emwazi appeared in a succession of grim online videos in which Western hostages are beheaded.