Six Syrian children survived on their own for TWO MONTHS
Six children survived on their own for TWO MONTHS in Aleppo


Six children, including a nine-month-old baby, survived for eight weeks on their own in a bomb battered hovel in the Syrian city of Aleppo.

For two dreadful months, the siblings endured one of the most intense bombing raids since the six-year-long war for Syria began, as government forces supported by Russian bombing raids drove rebel forces out of the city.

They lived on a piece of bread a day and wiped their baby brother's bottom with scraps of paper from the endless mounds of rubbish outside, while eldest Mohammed, 12, drank perfume 'for its alcohol' to 'numb the pain' of their destitute life.

Alongside his younger siblings - Hanadi, ten, Ibrahim, nine, Doha, six, Zakaria, five, and and nine-month-old Yamen - the children were forced to fend for themselves after their rebel fighter father vanished and their mother was arrested as his accomplice.

'I'm not scared of living here,' said ferociously brave Mohammed who, despite his tender age, has taken his place as head of the family.

Scroll down for video

Against the odds: Six Syrian children were forced to fend for themselves for two months in the bomb battered Syrian city of Aleppo after their father left to fight against the regime and their mother was arrested. Pictured from left to right: Mohammed, 12, Ibrahim, nine, Doha, six, Zakaria, five, nine-month-old Yamen and the only girl Hanadi, ten

Desperate: Charity workers, who found the children wrapped in soiled blankets, described how the room they shared stank of human excrement. With no nappies for the baby, they used tissues and scraps of paper to keep him clean. Five-year-old Zakaria (above) seemed particularly bewildered when rescuers picked their way through the rubble to find them

Destitute: For eight weeks, the siblings had sheltered in a single bedroom inside a destroyed building which had its roof torn off in Russian and Syrian bombing raids. They huddled under filthy covers, slept around a broken heater (above) and regularly had to stop strangers stealing what little food they had gathered

Daily life: The children showed rescue workers how they would clamber from roof to roof of the bombed out buildings to search for scrap metal to sell in exchange for food. The whereabouts of their father, a fighter for the Free Syrian Army, are unknown, while it is proving very difficult to locate their mother in prison

Survival: The siblings lived on a piece of bread a day and scavenged from the endless mounds of rubbish outside. They would exchange scrap metal for water and food from market traders. Pictured: Hanadi and her brother Ibrahim outside their 'home'

'Our home was destroyed. I don't know why my mother was arrested. I look after everyone now.'

The children, now living in the relative safety of a Syrian orphanage whose location cannot be revealed, were rescued by local Caritas workers supported by the UK's Catholic International Development Charity (CAFOD) on February 2.

Rescuers found them living in deplorable conditions - huddled underneath soiled blankets in a small room on the first floor of a half destroyed building.

The stench of urine and faeces filled the room and the stairwell was half-blocked by chunks of concrete torn from the roof in bombing raids, charity workers told MailOnline.

One Syrian rescue worker revealed how Yamen's expression always remained completely blank. 'I never saw him smile,' he said. 'I don't think he has ever seen one to copy.'

The Aleppo neighbourhood itself was devoid of electricity, heating, water, food and work - with not a single school or hospital left standing.

Harrowing photos show the children flanked by skeletal buildings pockmarked with bullets and empty, dusty streets.

The barefooted children would scour through the wreckage of fallen buildings for scraps of copper to trade for food and clean water from merchants looking to profit from the desperate situtation.

Mohammed explained: 'We eat once a day in the morning. It is usually just bread. Sometimes we get food from the charities.'

Remarkable: Baby Yamen (pictured) was just seven months old when his parents disappeared, leaving his elder siblings in charge of making sure he had enough to eat and drink. As head of the household, 12-year-old Mohammed is believed to have drunk perfume 'for its alcohol' to 'numb the pain' of their destitute life

Filthy: Surrounded by grubby mattresses, broken bicycle tyres and piles of rubbish, the children made this their home until they were rescued on February 2. Their family home was destroyed by a suspected barrel bomb attack while they were still inside, burying them under mounds of concrete

Street smart: The children had been buying food and clean water from local merchants who flooded back into the area after rebel forces were chased out by Syrian troops. Pictured: At the rescue centre with other desperate children before being sent to an orphanage

Heartbreaking: Syrian rescue workers revealed how baby Yamen's expression always remained completely blank. 'I never saw him smile,' he said. 'I don't think he has ever seen one to copy.' Pictured: Yamen was scooped up by charity workers and taken to a nearby orphanage with his siblings

Post-apocalyptic: Ibrahim, his hands encrusted with dirt, stands in the neighbourhood where the children fled after their family home had been destroyed. The area is devoid of electricity, heating, and clean, running water - and not a single school or hospital are left standing there

Past life: Hanadi, above, revealed how she and her oldest brother Mohammed had attended school before the war began, but the others had never experienced sitting in a classroom, their young lives filled only with bomb blasts and death

While Hanadi, the only girl, revealed: 'Before the war Mohammed and I went to school. The others have never been to school.

'It's scary at night here... A man comes in and steals our food. We try to block the door.'

The children had been living alone in the shell of a building since a barrel bomb destroyed their home while they were still inside, burying them in rubble.

Before the war Mohammed and I went to school... It's scary at night here. A man comes in and steals our food. We try to block the door. Hanadi, ten

'We were at home when a barrel bomb hit,' said Mohammed who, along with his siblings, was pulled from the debris by a bulldozer.

'We heard a loud bang and we were very afraid. There was a lot of rubble and smoke and it smelled like chlorine. We were rescued by neighbours and brought here.'

Charity workers had been going from house to house in Eastern Aleppo looking for those in need when they came across Mohammed walking the streets barefoot, his hair matted with dirt.

He took them to the room where his baby brother Yamen was being cradled by one of the older boys, their skin stained with dirt.

'It smelled appalling, like human waste,' said Patrick Nicholson, Director of Communications for Caritas International, said: 'You can imagine a baby without a nappy for two months... It was overwhelming.

'All the children were covered in dirt, living in this one room and there was a second room just full of rubbish.'

Horrifying: As charity workers were about to leave the children's wrecked abode, they noticed Mohammed, above, was trying to hide a bottle of perfume. He was drinking it for the alcohol,' said Patrick Nicholson of Caritas International. 'His neighbours said his parents would do it to... So he could have been copying them. And it may be that he was trying to dull the pain'

New start: CAFOD took the children to an orphanage in an undisclosed location in Syria (above), where they were bathed and clothed. Mohammed (left) was given a haircut and looks visibly relieved not to be solely responsible for caring for his family

Contrast: Before they were rescued, the charity took harrowing photos showing the Ibrahim and Hanadi standing outside wrecked buildings pockmarked with bullets and empty, dusty streets. No one seems to know where the children's mother is being held and if she is alive

New life: The siblings were taken to the orphanage where they were given food and a bath. They will stay there until a new life can be found for them and rescuers try and work out what has happened to their parents

One Syrian rescue worker revealed how the baby's expression always remained completely blank.

'I never saw him smile,' he said. 'I don't think he has ever seen one to copy.'

As they were about to leave the house with the children, charity workers noticed Mohammed was trying to hide a bottle of perfume he had secretly been drinking from.

Mr Nicholson told MailOnline. 'He was drinking it for the alcohol. It was extremely upsetting.

'His neighbours said his parents would do it to... So he could have been copying them. And it may be that he was trying to dull the pain.'

'He was incredibly brave. He got them through those two months and he was still alive, which shows he and his brothers and sisters have huge ingenuity to survive like that with absolutely no protection.

No one known what has happened to the children's parents and the rest of the family has fled to Turkey.

The whereabouts of their father, a fighter for the Free Syrian Army, are unknown, while rescue workers are not being told which prison is holding the children's mother.