Man accused of making threats against Jewish community centers arrested in St. Louis
Man accused of making threats against Jewish community centers arrested in St. Louis
Shares               A man accused of making at least eight threats against Jewish Community Centers was arrested by the FBI in St. Louis, Missouri, this morning. The suspect, 31-year-old Juan Thompson, is accused of what federal prosecutors called a “campaign to harass and intimidate.” He’s charged in New York with cyberstalking a woman by communicating threats to JCCs in the woman’s name. Prosecutors said Thompson “appears to have made at least eight of the JCC threats as part of a sustained campaign to harass and intimidate” the woman after their romantic relationship ended. The arrest comes after nearly 100 JCCs and schools nationwide received bomb threats this year in five separate waves. The most recent was on Feb. 27 when 21 bomb threats were called in to 13 JCCs and eight Jewish schools in Alabama, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Virginia, the JCC Association of North America said. No bombs were found at any of the locations. There have been 90 incidents this year at 73 locations in 30 states and one Canadian province, the JCC Association said. The FBI and the Justice Department's civil rights division launched an investigation.           New York City Police Commissioner James O'Neill said, "The defendant caused havoc, expending hundreds of hours of police and law enforcement resources to respond and investigate these threats. We will continue to pursue those who pedal fear, making false claims about serious crimes." "I’m grateful for the collaboration between the NYPD detectives, FBI agents, and prosecutors whose cross-country investigation led to this morning’s arrest," O'Neill said. Jonathan Greenblatt, the CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, told ABC News earlier this week that JCC threats created "terror" for the people evacuated from the facilities — including preschool children, the elderly and teenagers — as well as their family members. "This is absolutely abnormal, and it is totally unacceptable that anyone, anywhere, at any time could be terrorized because of their faith," he said.  Shares                  Man accused of making threats against Jewish community centers arrested in St. Louis   2nd night of US airstrikes in Yemen could mark escalated fight against terror group   One N.Korean deported, another sought in nerve-agent killing   Indictment sends ripple of doubt through Baltimore cases   GOP health bill: Less government; but what about coverage?   Kansas shooting survivor praised by Indian diplomats   US admiral in disputed South China Sea: 'We will be here'   Atlanta history teaches the violent toll of anti-Semitism   Sessions used political funds for RNC convention expenses   Trump touts plans to bolster military aboard new aircraft carrier   4-year-old wrestler runs away from competitor   Cat rescued from inside chimney: 'She was just happy to be out of there'   2-year-old with heart defect invited to senior prom   Photos mistakenly donated to Goodwill returned to owner   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   Iranian baby delayed by travel ban recovering after heart surgery   Oregon lawmakers push to protect pot users' info from US   Irish nationalists seek boost in Northern Ireland election   GOP, Dem foes of health care bill in scavenger hunt for copy   Video purports to show deadly encounter between Georgia teen and deputies   Briles says he didn't cover up sexual assaults at Baylor   Suspected gang member arrests related to Long Island teen murders   Trump: Sessions 'honest,' but could have testified 'more accurately'   ANALYSIS: Administration can't shake itself out of Russia pattern   Jared Kushner, Mike Flynn met with Russian ambassador during transition   VP Mike Pence used private email for state business as governor   Democrat accuses Comey of withholding Russia information   White House aides told to keep Russia-related materials   Arnold Schwarzenegger reflects on affair, Twitter feud with Trump   Former NAACP leader Rachel Dolezal gets new African name   Timeline of investigation into Kim Jong Nam's apparent assassination   Tom Hanks sends new espresso machine to White House press corps   Jane Fonda reveals past rape and sexual abuse   Katie Holmes speaks out about giving daughter Suri a 'stable' childhood   Good Housekeeping's 'golden rules' for removing stains

A man accused of making at least eight threats against Jewish Community Centers was arrested by the FBI in St. Louis, Missouri, this morning.

The suspect, 31-year-old Juan Thompson, is accused of what federal prosecutors called a “campaign to harass and intimidate.” He’s charged in New York with cyberstalking a woman by communicating threats to JCCs in the woman’s name. Prosecutors said Thompson “appears to have made at least eight of the JCC threats as part of a sustained campaign to harass and intimidate” the woman after their romantic relationship ended.

The arrest comes after nearly 100 JCCs and schools nationwide received bomb threats this year in five separate waves. The most recent was on Feb. 27 when 21 bomb threats were called in to 13 JCCs and eight Jewish schools in Alabama, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Virginia, the JCC Association of North America said.

No bombs were found at any of the locations.

There have been 90 incidents this year at 73 locations in 30 states and one Canadian province, the JCC Association said. The FBI and the Justice Department's civil rights division launched an investigation.

Wilfredo Lee/AP Photo

New York City Police Commissioner James O'Neill said, "The defendant caused havoc, expending hundreds of hours of police and law enforcement resources to respond and investigate these threats. We will continue to pursue those who pedal fear, making false claims about serious crimes."

"I’m grateful for the collaboration between the NYPD detectives, FBI agents, and prosecutors whose cross-country investigation led to this morning’s arrest," O'Neill said.

Jonathan Greenblatt, the CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, told ABC News earlier this week that JCC threats created "terror" for the people evacuated from the facilities — including preschool children, the elderly and teenagers — as well as their family members.

"This is absolutely abnormal, and it is totally unacceptable that anyone, anywhere, at any time could be terrorized because of their faith," he said.

This story is developing. Please check back for more updates.