Watch: 'Logan' Hugh Jackman Has A 'Special Message' For Team Cricket India Against Australia!
Watch: 'Logan' Hugh Jackman Has A 'Special Message' For Team Cricket India Against Australia!
Watch: 'Logan' Hugh Jackman Has A 'Special Message' For Team Cricket India Against Australia! Do you know Huge Jackman who playing the lead role in his upcoming Marvel superhero film 'Logan', is a big cricket fan and supporting Indian cricket team in the ongoing match series between Australia and India. In a video message, the 48-year-old actor giving a special message for team India, saying, "Namaste to all my fans in India! Do you guys know that cricket is my favourite sport? And what a great journey you and your cricket team have been on for the last few years! Your superheroes have been overpowering all the teams in the World. But my Aussie mates have just got the better of your team in the first match." Read Also: EXCLUSIVE: Hugh Jackman Talks About Child Refugees, His Last Film As The Wolverine, SRK, Logan And More! "But I know that the Indian team is gonna play bold, bolder than ever, cause that's what superheroes do, that's what 'Logan' does," he added.

Do you know Huge Jackman who playing the lead role in his upcoming Marvel superhero film 'Logan', is a big cricket fan and supporting Indian cricket team in the ongoing match series between Australia and India.

In a video message, the 48-year-old actor giving a special message for team India, saying, "Namaste to all my fans in India! Do you guys know that cricket is my favourite sport? And what a great journey you and your cricket team have been on for the last few years! Your superheroes have been overpowering all the teams in the World. But my Aussie mates have just got the better of your team in the first match."

Read Also: EXCLUSIVE: Hugh Jackman Talks About Child Refugees, His Last Film As The Wolverine, SRK, Logan And More!

"But I know that the Indian team is gonna play bold, bolder than ever, cause that's what superheroes do, that's what 'Logan' does," he added.