Jeff Sessions, Obamacare, Palmyra: Your Friday Briefing
Jeff Sessions, Obamacare, Palmyra: Your Friday Briefing
Jeff Sessions, facing criticism over newly disclosed contacts he had with Moscow’s ambassador to the U.S., said at a news conference that he would not take part in any investigations into Russia’s role in the 2016 election. The ambassador also met in December with President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner . The attorney general’s announcement came amid growing calls for a special prosecutor or select congressional committee to investigate efforts to influence the new administration, a push Republican lawmakers have resisted . Mr. Sessions said there was nothing nefarious about the contacts . “In retrospect,” he said, “I should have slowed down and said, ‘But I did meet one Russian official a couple of times, and that would be the ambassador.’ ” A week before two powerful House committees are to vote on a bill to replace the Affordable Care Act, opponents point out that almost no one has actually seen the legislation , which would affect the lives and wallets of millions of Americans. Advertisement While Republicans discussed details of the measure, Democrats went from office to office on Thursday hunting for a copy. Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican who has criticized the measure as described publicly by party leaders, also tried and failed to see it. Advertisement “I have been told that the House Obamacare bill is under lock & key, in a secure location, & not available for me or the public to view,” Mr. Paul wrote on Twitter. Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s senior adviser, is said to be pressing Mr. Trump to pull the U.S. from the 2015 Paris agreement on climate change. But Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and the president’s daughter Ivanka Trump see grave down sides to the move, according to energy and government officials. Advertisement While the president cannot unilaterally undo the 194-nation accord, which requires nearly every country to curb emissions, he could start the four-year process to withdraw. Palmyra, a Unesco World Heritage site among prewar Syria’s leading tourist attractions, swung back under government control on Thursday, as soldiers and their allies evicted Islamic State militants who have vandalized historic sites. Advertisement It’s the fourth time in two years that control of Palmyra has changed hands.  The country’s top appeals court cleared former President Hosni Mubarak of any responsibility for the killing of hundreds of people during the 2011 protests that ended his 30-year rule, sweeping away the final legal hurdle to his release from detention. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Advertisement Who is the mysterious Russian ambassador who met with Jeff Sessions and other officials before the election? Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Listen from a computer , on an iOS device or on an Android device . Business  , the parent of the disappearing-message app Snapchat, jumped 44 percent on their first day of trading on Thursday, valuing the company at about $34 billion. Advertisement ruled that Harvard University must produce documents disclosing the bank accounts that a wealthy alumnus, Charles C. Spackman, used to send it money. of the wealthiest members of China’s Parliament and its advisory body amount to $500 billion , just below the annual economic output of Sweden. Advertisement were down on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living  this morning? Here’s our guide to getting a better night’s sleep . : If you want a chicken dish with real flavor, consider a tagine . Noteworthy In Lima, Peru, where little rain falls, a community project turns fog into water to irrigate 50 household gardens. Here’s our 360 video . The Fog Catchers In Lima, Peru, where little rain falls, a community project is turning fog into water to irrigate 50 household gardens in the Eliseo Collazos neighborhood.      “Junction 48,” which received some financing from the Israeli government, offers an Arab’s view of contemporary life in Israel . Advertisement But the changing political climate means backing for such projects is becoming rare. “The possibility of a film like this getting state funding in Israel — that’s over, there’s no way,” an executive producer of the movie said.  The average game last season took three hours. Playoff games are even more trying, now often stretching beyond three and a half hours. Advertisement The sport’s officials are finally addressing the issue, and our reporters and readers offered some ideas . We review “Logan,” in which Hugh Jackman again plays the Wolverine, and the comic-book stalwart turns noirish western. Our critic calls the movie an “old-school meets new-school pulp filled with intimations of mortality, and raw, ugly violence.” Advertisement George W. Bush carefully avoided taking any shots at Mr. Trump on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” on Thursday. But the 43rd president showed that he could laugh at himself. Back Story Iceland endured a mock constitutional crisis last week after the president, Gudni Thorlacius Johannesson, jokingly told a class of high school students that he would like to ban pineapple as a pizza topping. An uproar on social media ensued, and Mr. Johannesson retracted his comment. He wrote in a statement that “presidents should not have unlimited power,” adding that he “would not want to live in such a country.” “For pizzas, I recommend seafood,” he said. Unlike Mr. Johannesson, Saparmurat Niyazov , the president of Turkmenistan who died in 2006, stood out as a head of state who used his office to impose his personal preferences on citizens. Advertisement He renamed January after himself , and April after his mother. Mr. Niyazov declared a public holiday in honor of melons. He also banned circuses and video games. And he had a golden rotating statue of himself installed in Ashgabat, the capital. His successor, Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, relocated the statue and ordered his own built . Last month, he was re-elected, winning more than 97 percent of the vote. Advertisement We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Listen from a computer, on an iOS device or on an Android device.

Business

• Shares in Snap Inc., the parent of the disappearing-message app Snapchat, jumped 44 percent on their first day of trading on Thursday, valuing the company at about $34 billion.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• A federal judge ruled that Harvard University must produce documents disclosing the bank accounts that a wealthy alumnus, Charles C. Spackman, used to send it money.

• The combined fortunes of the wealthiest members of China’s Parliament and its advisory body amount to $500 billion, just below the annual economic output of Sweden.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• U.S. stocks were down on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• Feeling groggy this morning? Here’s our guide to getting a better night’s sleep.

• Recipe of the day: If you want a chicken dish with real flavor, consider a tagine.

Noteworthy

• The fog catchers.

In Lima, Peru, where little rain falls, a community project turns fog into water to irrigate 50 household gardens. Here’s our 360 video.

Video

• A Palestinian hip-hop film, from Israel.

“Junction 48,” which received some financing from the Israeli government, offers an Arab’s view of contemporary life in Israel.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the changing political climate means backing for such projects is becoming rare. “The possibility of a film like this getting state funding in Israel — that’s over, there’s no way,” an executive producer of the movie said.

• Is baseball too slow?

The average game last season took three hours. Playoff games are even more trying, now often stretching beyond three and a half hours.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The sport’s officials are finally addressing the issue, and our reporters and readers offered some ideas.

• Something to get your claws into this weekend.

We review “Logan,” in which Hugh Jackman again plays the Wolverine, and the comic-book stalwart turns noirish western. Our critic calls the movie an “old-school meets new-school pulp filled with intimations of mortality, and raw, ugly violence.”

Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Best of late-night TV.

George W. Bush carefully avoided taking any shots at Mr. Trump on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” on Thursday. But the 43rd president showed that he could laugh at himself.

Back Story

Iceland endured a mock constitutional crisis last week after the president, Gudni Thorlacius Johannesson, jokingly told a class of high school students that he would like to ban pineapple as a pizza topping.

An uproar on social media ensued, and Mr. Johannesson retracted his comment. He wrote in a statement that “presidents should not have unlimited power,” adding that he “would not want to live in such a country.”

Photo

“For pizzas, I recommend seafood,” he said.

Unlike Mr. Johannesson, Saparmurat Niyazov, the president of Turkmenistan who died in 2006, stood out as a head of state who used his office to impose his personal preferences on citizens.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He renamed January after himself, and April after his mother.

Mr. Niyazov declared a public holiday in honor of melons. He also banned circuses and video games.

And he had a golden rotating statue of himself installed in Ashgabat, the capital.

His successor, Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, relocated the statue and ordered his own built. Last month, he was re-elected, winning more than 97 percent of the vote.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.