Backstreet Boys' Las Vegas Residency Is a Thrilling Trip Down Memory Lane
Backstreet Boys' Las Vegas Residency Is a Thrilling Trip Down Memory Lane
Backstreet Boys' Las Vegas Residency Is a Thrilling Trip Down Memory Lane  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  When you've been a group for 24 years andÂ you're one of the biggest boy bands in the world, landing a residency in Las Vegas isn't too surprising. But where the element of surprise does come in is what you do with that Vegas spot -- and the Backstreet Boys were clearly aware of that. At the opening night of their 26-date Larger Than Life residency at Planet Hollywood's AXIS Theater on Wednesday, it was immediately apparent that the goal of the show was to recap what the past 24 years have brought: iconic singles, passionate fans and, overall, insane success. Instead of trying to put all 24 years into one 90-minute period, though, what BSB decided to do with their show was bringÂ thingsÂ back to where it all began. While fans eagerly awaited the guys' arrival, they were reminded of all the memorable songs the Backstreet Boys have delivered throughout their still-going-strong career with a remixed montage of music videos, from classics likeÂ "Quit Playing Games With My Heart" to 2001 jam "Drowning." And once the curtain was drawn, well, then the nostalgia party really got started.  Kicking off with the show's titular song, BSB sported all-white outfits reminiscent of their album coverÂ to start the throwbacks out strong with "Larger Than Life." Following with another favorite, "The One,"Â the set list continued to go further back in time with the relatively deep-cut oldies "Get Down" and "Every Time I Close My Eyes"Â -- that is, until they began the 2005 hit "Incomplete." (As the song title says, though, a Backstreet Boys show would've felt a bit incomplete without that number.) After breaking into the millennium with that newer track, the guys brought it right back to 1996 and 1999, alternating from debut-album favorites such as "Quit Playin' Games (With My Heart)" and "I'll Never Break Your Heart" to belt-ableÂ Â tracks "Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely" and "Back to Your Heart." As Brian Littrell described upon the show's announcement, the Larger Than Life residency isÂ like a Backstreet Boys concert on steroids, with backup dancers, dramatic light shows and even an entire song performedÂ in the audience. But the most exciting parts were when the guys would visually pay homage to the old days, with theÂ throwback set list accompanied byÂ choreography from some of the group's oldest tunesÂ (yes, including the chair routine from "As Long as You Love Me"), never-before-seen home videos during costume changes, and matchingÂ outfits like theÂ Â ensembles.  Another album that was given some love toward the latter part of the show wasÂ , with the guys sprinklingÂ "The Call," "Get Another Boyfriend," "More Than That"Â and "Shape of My Heart" among some of the most classic BSB songs in their eight-albumÂ catalog, including show-closers "I Want It That Way" and "Everybody (Backstreet's Back)." With the 20-song roster seeing the revival of so many older tunes as well as classic dances and videos, Backstreet Boys:Â Larger Than Life feel less like a prestige show and more like a celebration --Â not just of their success from the past two dozen years, but also of the connection they've built with their fans through their music. Because of this,Â it feels like perfect timing for a BSBÂ Vegas residency, as the AXIS only seats about 4,600 (for residencies) versus the typical arena-size shows the group has been performing for most of their career. And between that kind of intimacy and that kind of nostalgia, Larger Than Life really is a show that noÂ Backstreet fan should miss. Larger Than Life The One Get Down Drowning Incomplete Quit Playing Games (With My Heart) Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely I'll Never Break Your Heart Anywhere For You/Darlin'/Undone Medley As Long As You Love Me The Call We've Got It Going On Get Another Boyfriend More Than That All I Have To Give Shape OfÂ My Heart I Want It That Way Everybody (Backstreet's Back)  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

AJ McLean, Nick Carter, Brian Littrell, Howie Dorough and Kevin Richardson of the Backstreet Boys perform during the launch of the group's residency 'Larger Than Life' at The Axis at Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino on March 1, 2017 in Las Vegas.

When you've been a group for 24 years andÂ you're one of the biggest boy bands in the world, landing a residency in Las Vegas isn't too surprising. But where the element of surprise does come in is what you do with that Vegas spot -- and the Backstreet Boys were clearly aware of that.

At the opening night of their 26-date Larger Than Life residency at Planet Hollywood's AXIS Theater on Wednesday, it was immediately apparent that the goal of the show was to recap what the past 24 years have brought: iconic singles, passionate fans and, overall, insane success. Instead of trying to put all 24 years into one 90-minute period, though, what BSB decided to do with their show was bringÂ thingsÂ back to where it all began.

While fans eagerly awaited the guys' arrival, they were reminded of all the memorable songs the Backstreet Boys have delivered throughout their still-going-strong career with a remixed montage of music videos, from classics likeÂ "Quit Playing Games With My Heart" to 2001 jam "Drowning." And once the curtain was drawn, well, then the nostalgia party really got started.

Kicking off with the show's titular song, BSB sported all-white outfits reminiscent of their Millennium album coverÂ to start the throwbacks out strong with "Larger Than Life." Following with another Millennium favorite, "The One,"Â the set list continued to go further back in time with the relatively deep-cut oldies "Get Down" and "Every Time I Close My Eyes"Â -- that is, until they began the 2005 hit "Incomplete." (As the song title says, though, a Backstreet Boys show would've felt a bit incomplete without that number.)

After breaking into the millennium with that newer track, the guys brought it right back to 1996 and 1999, alternating from debut-album favorites such as "Quit Playin' Games (With My Heart)" and "I'll Never Break Your Heart" to belt-ableÂ MillenniumÂ tracks "Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely" and "Back to Your Heart."

As Brian Littrell described upon the show's announcement, the Larger Than Life residency isÂ like a Backstreet Boys concert on steroids, with backup dancers, dramatic light shows and even an entire song performedÂ in the audience. But the most exciting parts were when the guys would visually pay homage to the old days, with theÂ throwback set list accompanied byÂ choreography from some of the group's oldest tunesÂ (yes, including the chair routine from "As Long as You Love Me"), never-before-seen home videos during costume changes, and matchingÂ outfits like theÂ MillenniumÂ ensembles.

Another album that was given some love toward the latter part of the show wasÂ Black & Blue, with the guys sprinklingÂ "The Call," "Get Another Boyfriend," "More Than That"Â and "Shape of My Heart" among some of the most classic BSB songs in their eight-albumÂ catalog, including show-closers "I Want It That Way" and "Everybody (Backstreet's Back)."

With the 20-song roster seeing the revival of so many older tunes as well as classic dances and videos, Backstreet Boys:Â Larger Than Life feel less like a prestige show and more like a celebration --Â not just of their success from the past two dozen years, but also of the connection they've built with their fans through their music. Because of this,Â it feels like perfect timing for a BSBÂ Vegas residency, as the AXIS only seats about 4,600 (for residencies) versus the typical arena-size shows the group has been performing for most of their career. And between that kind of intimacy and that kind of nostalgia, Larger Than Life really is a show that noÂ Backstreet fan should miss.

Backstreet Boys' Larger Than Life Las Vegas residency set list

Larger Than Life

The One

Get Down

Drowning

Incomplete

Quit Playing Games (With My Heart)

Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely

I'll Never Break Your Heart

Anywhere For You/Darlin'/Undone Medley

As Long As You Love Me

The Call

We've Got It Going On

Get Another Boyfriend

More Than That

All I Have To Give

Shape OfÂ My Heart

I Want It That Way

Everybody (Backstreet's Back)