Boddhi Satva, Bilal Offer Hope on 'Love Will:' Exclusive Premiere
Boddhi Satva, Bilal Offer Hope on 'Love Will:' Exclusive Premiere
Boddhi Satva, Bilal Offer Hope on 'Love Will:' Exclusive Premiere  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The latest release from Central African Republic-born house producer Boddhi Satva aims to be a soothing force at a fraught moment. "'Love Will' is a message of hope in these very difficult times the world is facing," the DJ tells . "It's an ode to hope and resilience found within through acceptance and love." Satva recruited a special guest to help him on his emboldening mission: the singer Bilal , who has cut a remarkably idiosyncratic path through R&B, hip-hop, and jazz since debuting in 2001 with the album. In addition to his own solo work, Bilal has collaborated with Erykah Badu , Kendrick Lamar , and Robert Glasper ; he earned acclaim last year when he paid tribute to Prince with a stunning performance of "The Beautiful Ones." Satva called the singer "one of my musical heroes." "Bilal's sensibility totally captured the emotion of the song and took it to a stellar level," the producerÂ added.  "Love Will" never threatens to overwhelm the listener: the beat ebbs and flows, preferring light throbÂ to sheer force. Bilal holds notes for long periods, wafting over Satva's production. He returns again and again to one optimistic phrase --Â "love will bring you home." The lyrics become fuzzy as the song progresses, but the rhythmic pulse remains firm. "'Love Will' was inspired by the magic of music and its power to heal and inspire the people of the world during times of beautiful struggles," Bilal said. "Love is the bridge that transcends all." Listen below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The latest release from Central African Republic-born house producer Boddhi Satva aims to be a soothing force at a fraught moment. "'Love Will' is a message of hope in these very difficult times the world is facing," the DJ tells Billboard Dance. "It's an ode to hope and resilience found within through acceptance and love."

Satva recruited a special guest to help him on his emboldening mission: the singer Bilal, who has cut a remarkably idiosyncratic path through R&B, hip-hop, and jazz since debuting in 2001 with the 1st Born Second album. In addition to his own solo work, Bilal has collaborated with Erykah Badu, Kendrick Lamar, and Robert Glasper; he earned acclaim last year when he paid tribute to Prince with a stunning performance of "The Beautiful Ones."

Satva called the singer "one of my musical heroes." "Bilal's sensibility totally captured the emotion of the song and took it to a stellar level," the producerÂ added.

"Love Will" never threatens to overwhelm the listener: the beat ebbs and flows, preferring light throbÂ to sheer force. Bilal holds notes for long periods, wafting over Satva's production. He returns again and again to one optimistic phrase --Â "love will bring you home." The lyrics become fuzzy as the song progresses, but the rhythmic pulse remains firm.

"'Love Will' was inspired by the magic of music and its power to heal and inspire the people of the world during times of beautiful struggles," Bilal said. "Love is the bridge that transcends all."

Listen below.