Late-night roundup: Trump's team 'like one of those Russian nesting dolls'

Guardian staff    Late-night hosts took aim at the last 24 hours in the White House, comparing Trump’s government to a “Russian nesting doll”. On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah spoke about the controversy surrounding Jeff Sessions , who is accused of lying under oath while being interviewed for a role in which he would have to make sure people didn’t lie under oath. Noah thinks it makes him a solid candidate for the role. Jeff Sessions recuses himself from Russia investigations after forgetting he met with a Russian ambassador. https://t.co/ARKbzZdfwY  pic.twitter.com/IOFoZdD19X “Trump’s EPA chief hates the environment, his energy secretary wanted to abolish the Department of Energy and the secretary of agriculture is an actual swarm of locusts so, I mean, it all works out,” he said. He also showed surprise that yet another cabinet member had apparently forgotten about a Russian meeting. “How do Trump’s people keep forgetting that they’ve met with Russians?” he said. “Let me tell you something: if you meet with a Russian, you’ll remember that shit. Those people make an impression.” He continued: “Meeting a Russian is always the highlight of your day. Like, you could meet an alien after you’ve met a Russian and you’d still be like: ‘You’ll never guess what happened on the way to that alien.’” He then commented: “The whole thing is like one of those Russian nesting dolls.” On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert started by joking: “Big news today out of the Kremlin. I’m sorry, I misread that, the White House.” He also spent his opening monologue discussing the latest news about Sessions recusing himself from any further investigation surrounding Trump’s campaign. “You called yourself a campaign surrogate, then you lied under oath that you never met with the Russians, so you don’t have to recuse yourself because you’ve already fucked yourself,” he said. He also questioned where the president could hide any more evidence of Russia-linked corruption. “Trump could bury it where the public would never see it, maybe with his taxes,” he joked. Colbert covered the news that the government had been told to preserve all Russia-related materials. “You hear that, Mr President? Do not get that mattress steam-cleaned yet,” he said. He then found time to joke about Trump’s appearance at a new navy carrier, saying he looked “like Grandpa just stepped out of the changing room at the army surplus store”. On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the ex-SNL comic made reference to a justification for the meeting that came from the Sessions camp: that he was meeting the Russian ambassador as a member of the armed services committee. He joked: “You see, honey, I slept with that other woman as accountant Mike, not as your husband Mike.” Many of the statements that have been released by Sessions’ people have appeared contradictory, leading Meyers to say: “I guess we shouldn’t be surprised, since leprechauns always talk in riddles.” He also looked back at a disastrous interview with Trump’s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who has also been linked to Russia. Meyers said: “That’s the face you make when your wife snatches away your newspaper and screams: ‘Whose earrings are these?’” Trump’s presidency is still in its early days: extremely early for a special prosecutor to be involved. “It’s like you’re on a third date with someone and you’re already introducing them to your divorce lawyer,” Meyers said.  US television   Trevor Noah   Stephen Colbert   Comedy
(Television & radio)   Donald Trump   Comedy
(Culture)   blogposts

Late-night hosts took aim at the last 24 hours in the White House, comparing Trump’s government to a “Russian nesting doll”.

On The Daily Show, Trevor Noah spoke about the controversy surrounding Jeff Sessions, who is accused of lying under oath while being interviewed for a role in which he would have to make sure people didn’t lie under oath. Noah thinks it makes him a solid candidate for the role.

The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) Jeff Sessions recuses himself from Russia investigations after forgetting he met with a Russian ambassador. https://t.co/ARKbzZdfwY pic.twitter.com/IOFoZdD19X

“Trump’s EPA chief hates the environment, his energy secretary wanted to abolish the Department of Energy and the secretary of agriculture is an actual swarm of locusts so, I mean, it all works out,” he said.

He also showed surprise that yet another cabinet member had apparently forgotten about a Russian meeting. “How do Trump’s people keep forgetting that they’ve met with Russians?” he said. “Let me tell you something: if you meet with a Russian, you’ll remember that shit. Those people make an impression.”

Late-night TV on Trump's tone: 'from unhinged narcissist to hinged narcissist' Read more

He continued: “Meeting a Russian is always the highlight of your day. Like, you could meet an alien after you’ve met a Russian and you’d still be like: ‘You’ll never guess what happened on the way to that alien.’”

He then commented: “The whole thing is like one of those Russian nesting dolls.”

On The Late Show, Stephen Colbert started by joking: “Big news today out of the Kremlin. I’m sorry, I misread that, the White House.”

He also spent his opening monologue discussing the latest news about Sessions recusing himself from any further investigation surrounding Trump’s campaign. “You called yourself a campaign surrogate, then you lied under oath that you never met with the Russians, so you don’t have to recuse yourself because you’ve already fucked yourself,” he said.



He also questioned where the president could hide any more evidence of Russia-linked corruption. “Trump could bury it where the public would never see it, maybe with his taxes,” he joked.

Colbert covered the news that the government had been told to preserve all Russia-related materials. “You hear that, Mr President? Do not get that mattress steam-cleaned yet,” he said.

He then found time to joke about Trump’s appearance at a new navy carrier, saying he looked “like Grandpa just stepped out of the changing room at the army surplus store”.

On Late Night with Seth Meyers, the ex-SNL comic made reference to a justification for the meeting that came from the Sessions camp: that he was meeting the Russian ambassador as a member of the armed services committee.

He joked: “You see, honey, I slept with that other woman as accountant Mike, not as your husband Mike.”



Many of the statements that have been released by Sessions’ people have appeared contradictory, leading Meyers to say: “I guess we shouldn’t be surprised, since leprechauns always talk in riddles.”

He also looked back at a disastrous interview with Trump’s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, who has also been linked to Russia. Meyers said: “That’s the face you make when your wife snatches away your newspaper and screams: ‘Whose earrings are these?’”

Trump’s presidency is still in its early days: extremely early for a special prosecutor to be involved. “It’s like you’re on a third date with someone and you’re already introducing them to your divorce lawyer,” Meyers said.