Roger Waters Posts New Tease of First Solo Rock Album in 25 Years, 'Is This the Life We Really Want?'
Roger Waters Posts New Tease of First Solo Rock Album in 25 Years, 'Is This the Life We Really Want?'
Roger Waters Posts New Tease of First Solo Rock Album in 25 Years, 'Is This the Life We Really Want?'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Roger Waters teased out another taste of his first newÂ rock tunes in nearly a quarter century on Thursday (March 2) when he posted aÂ 30-second videoÂ preview of hisÂ upcoming fifth solo album, The clip features Waters listening to a lush orchestral score for an unnamed song from the album, produced by frequent Radiohead collaborator Nigel Godrich,Â due out May 19.  After performing at last year's Desert Trip festival Waters announced theÂ extensive Us + Them North American tour on which he will play songs from the Pink Floyd catalog. Last month he announced a number of additional dates on the tour and described what fans can expect. "We are going to take a new show on the road, the content is very secret," he said in a statement. "It'll be a mixture of stuff from my long career, stuff from my years with Pink Floyd, some new things. Probably 75% of it will be old material and 25% will be new, but it will be all connected by a general theme. It will be a cool show, I promise you. It'll be spectacular like all my shows have been." The tour kicks off at the Sprint Center in Kansas City, Missouri, on May 26 and is currently slated to run through an Oct. 28 gig at Rogers Arena in Vancouver.  Waters released the operatic concept albumÂ Â in 2005, but he hasn't put out a proper rock effort since 1992's whose theme centered on the chronicle of an ape endlessly changing channels on a TV. Check out an earlier preview of the new album:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Roger Waters teased out another taste of his first newÂ rock tunes in nearly a quarter century on Thursday (March 2) when he posted aÂ 30-second videoÂ preview of hisÂ upcoming fifth solo album, Is This the Life We Really Want? The clip features Waters listening to a lush orchestral score for an unnamed song from the album, produced by frequent Radiohead collaborator Nigel Godrich,Â due out May 19.

After performing at last year's Desert Trip festival Waters announced theÂ extensive Us + Them North American tour on which he will play songs from the Pink Floyd catalog. Last month he announced a number of additional dates on the tour and described what fans can expect. "We are going to take a new show on the road, the content is very secret," he said in a statement. "It'll be a mixture of stuff from my long career, stuff from my years with Pink Floyd, some new things. Probably 75% of it will be old material and 25% will be new, but it will be all connected by a general theme. It will be a cool show, I promise you. It'll be spectacular like all my shows have been."

The tour kicks off at the Sprint Center in Kansas City, Missouri, on May 26 and is currently slated to run through an Oct. 28 gig at Rogers Arena in Vancouver.

Waters released the operatic concept albumÂ Ã‡a IraÂ in 2005, but he hasn't put out a proper rock effort since 1992's Amused to Death, whose theme centered on the chronicle of an ape endlessly changing channels on a TV.

Check out an earlier preview of the new album: