Baby remains found in 'underground chambers' beneath former home for unmarried mothers in Ireland
Baby remains found in 'underground chambers' beneath former home for unmarried mothers in Ireland
A “significant” quantity of human remains has been discovered in “underground chambers” at a former home for unmarried mothers and their babies in Ireland . A commission set up to investigate alleged abuse at religious-run so-called mother and baby homes has been carrying out an excavation at the former Catholic Church institution in Tuam, Co Galway. It said it was “shocked” by the discovery of “significant quantities of human remains” in at least 17 of 20 underground chambers being excavated in recent weeks.   Polls close in Northern Ireland assembly elections “A small number of remains were recovered for the purpose of analysis,” the Commission of Investigation into Mother and Baby Homes said. “These remains involved a number of individuals with age-at-death ranges from approximately 35 foetal weeks to 2-3 years. “Radiocarbon dating of the samples recovered suggest that the remains date from the time frame relevant to the operation of the mother and baby home.” The Tuam home operated from 1925 to 1961. A number of the samples are likely to date from the 1950s, according to the commission. “The Commission is shocked by this discovery and is continuing its investigation into who was responsible for the disposal of human remains in this way,” it said in a statement. “Meanwhile, the commission has asked that the relevant State authorities take responsibility for the appropriate treatment of the remains.” A coroner has been notified. Ireland’s Children’s Minister Katherine Zappone TD described the discovery as “very sad and disturbing news”. “It was not unexpected as there were claims about human remains on the site over the last number of years,” she said. “Up to now we had rumours. Now we have confirmation that the remains are there, and that they date back to the time of the mother and baby home, which operated in Tuam from 1925 to 1961.” The minister urged a sensitive and respectful response to the discovery. The commission was set up two years ago by the Irish Government to probe state sanctioned, religious-run institutions used to house pregnant mothers. World news in pictures               World news in pictures    28 February 2017   An Israeli youth supporter of settlements cries as Israeli police forces move protestors away from a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli forces.  Nine homes in the Ofra settlement were found to have been built on private Palestinian land and the Israeli supreme court ordered them razed by March 5, rejecting last minute petitions to delay the demolition or have the buildings sealed instead   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Israeli youths supporters of settlements surround and sit on a rooftop of a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli forces to evict the people in nine houses   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Israeli policemen remove a pro-settlement activist during an operation by Israeli forces to evict residents from several homes in the Israeli settlement of Ofra   Reuters     28 February 2017   Israeli youths supporters of settlements sit on the rooftop of a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli force   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Marine Le Pen, French National Front (FN) political party leader and candidate for French 2017 presidential election, visits the International Agricultural Show in Paris, France   Reuters     28 February 2017   An Afghan health worker vaccinates a child as relatives watch during a campaign to eliminate polio on the outskirts of Kabul, Afghanistan   AP     28 February 2017   Displaced Iraqis who fled their homes are pictured at the special forces base as Iraqi forces battle with Islamic State militants in western Mosul, Iraq   Reuters     28 February 2017   Makeshift shacks are seen at an encampment after the evacuation of members of the Roma community, along a section of the disused 'Petite Ceinture' circular railway line near Porte de la Chapelle in northern Paris   Getty Images     28 February 2017   A general view of construction of the Pyongchang Olympic Village in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea. The Pyongchang Olympic Village will house athletes during the Pyongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games   Getty Images     28 February 2017   A general view of construction of the Pyongchang Olympic Village in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea. The Pyongchang Olympic Village will house athletes during the Pyongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Special police carry boxes outside a building at Maerkisches Viertel area in Berlin, Germany   Reuters     28 February 2017   Iraqi Special Forces soldiers walk on a street during a battle with Islamic State fighters in Mosul, Iraq   Reuters     27 February 2017   Members of the Iraqi army's 9th Division fire a multiple rocket launcher from a hill in Talul al-Atshana, on the southwestern outskirts of Mosul, during an offensive to retake the city from Islamic State (IS) group fighter   Getty Images     27 February 2017   French far-right Front National (FN) party candidate for the presidential election Marine Le Pen visits a stand at the Agriculture Fair in Paris   Getty Images     27 February 2017   Members of the Iraqi army's 9th Division hold a position on a hill in Talul al-Atshana, on the southwestern outskirts of Mosul, during an offensive to retake the city from Islamic State (IS) group fighters   Getty     27 February 2017   Emirati men walk across the dunes in the Rimah desert, west of Al-Ain in the United Arab Emirate   Getty Images     27 February 2017   Comedian Bill Cosby leaves after a pre-trial hearing at the Montgomery County Courthouse in Norristown, Pennsylvania.  The judge agreed to form a jury from another district in Pennsylvania, on the grounds that media coverage has potentially biased the local jury pool   Getty Images     27 February 2017   Free Syrian Army fighters man a checkpoint on the eastern edge of the northern Syrian town of al-Bab, Syria   Reuters     27 February 2017   A Rohingya refugee boy is seen at Kutupalang Unregistered Refugee Camp in Cox's Bazar, Banglades   Reuters     27 February 2017   A dancer performs during a rehearsal at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre   Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images     27 February 2017   Dancers perform during a rehearsal at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre   Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images     27 February 2017   Ballet dancers backstage before a performance of a ballet production of Jean-Madeleine Schneitzhoeffer's La Sylphide at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre   Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images     27 February 2017   Syrian civil defence volunteers, known as the White Helmets, look for survivors amidst the debris following reported government airstrike on the Syrian town of Ariha, in the northwestern province of Idlib   Getty Images     27 February 2017   President Donald Trump meets with leaders of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington.  Also at the meeting are White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, and Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, on the couch   AP     27 February 2017   Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway takes a photo as US President Donald Trump and leaders of historically black universities and colleges talk before a group photo in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     26 February 2017   Actor Janelle Monae, NASA mathematician Katherine Johnson and actors Taraji P. Henson and Octavia Spencer pose backstage during the 89th Annual Academy Awards   Getty Images     26 February 2017   Syrian men walk amid the rubble of buildings destroyed a day earlier following reported government airstrike on the rebel-held town of Douma, on the eastern outskirts of the capital Damascus   Getty Images     25 February 2017   A bridge modelled on London's Tower Bridge, in Suzhou, China's eastern Jiangsu province.  The bridge features four 40 metre tall towers instead of two, but otherwise uses many design elements from the London original   Getty Images     25 February 2017   A bridge modelled on London's Tower Bridge, in Suzhou, China's eastern Jiangsu province.  The bridge features four 40 metre tall towers instead of two, but otherwise uses many design elements from the London original   Getty Images  It was charged with investigating high mortality rates at mother and baby homes across several decades of the 20th century, the burial practises at these sites and also secret and illegal adoptions and vaccine trials on children. It is thought about 35,000 unmarried mothers spent time in one of 10 homes run by religious orders in Ireland. An inquiry was ordered after massive national and international focus on the story of the Sisters of the Bon Secours in Tuam, where the remains of 796 infants are believed to be buried. Outside of Tuam, three other mother and baby homes have little angels plots believed to hold the remains of another 3,200 babies and infants. They are Sean Ross Abbey, Tipperary – where the story of Philomena Lee began – Bessborough, Co Cork, and Castlepollard, Co Westmeath. Infant mortality rates ranged from 30-50 per cent in some of the homes in the 1930s and 1940s. Joan Burton, Labour Party TD, said the findings at Tuam are “truly gruesome and no doubt deeply upsetting to anyone associated with the Tuam home”. “The grim discovery also highlights the important work of local historian Catherine Corless in bringing this case to light,” she added. “It now appears as though these children were interred in some kind of mass grave, possibly without normal funeral rights, and maybe even without their wider families having been made aware. “There have also been allegations that there may have been similar instances with other mother and baby homes around the country. “I believe the government should resource the commission so that all such allegations can be included.” Ms Burton added: “It is now incumbent upon the Catholic Church to assist in whatever way they can, so that the truth should be set out in relation to these matters.” More about: Tuam Ireland

A “significant” quantity of human remains has been discovered in “underground chambers” at a former home for unmarried mothers and their babies in Ireland.

A commission set up to investigate alleged abuse at religious-run so-called mother and baby homes has been carrying out an excavation at the former Catholic Church institution in Tuam, Co Galway.

It said it was “shocked” by the discovery of “significant quantities of human remains” in at least 17 of 20 underground chambers being excavated in recent weeks.

“A small number of remains were recovered for the purpose of analysis,” the Commission of Investigation into Mother and Baby Homes said.

“These remains involved a number of individuals with age-at-death ranges from approximately 35 foetal weeks to 2-3 years.

“Radiocarbon dating of the samples recovered suggest that the remains date from the time frame relevant to the operation of the mother and baby home.”

The Tuam home operated from 1925 to 1961.

A number of the samples are likely to date from the 1950s, according to the commission.

“The Commission is shocked by this discovery and is continuing its investigation into who was responsible for the disposal of human remains in this way,” it said in a statement.

“Meanwhile, the commission has asked that the relevant State authorities take responsibility for the appropriate treatment of the remains.”

A coroner has been notified.

Ireland’s Children’s Minister Katherine Zappone TD described the discovery as “very sad and disturbing news”.

“It was not unexpected as there were claims about human remains on the site over the last number of years,” she said.

“Up to now we had rumours. Now we have confirmation that the remains are there, and that they date back to the time of the mother and baby home, which operated in Tuam from 1925 to 1961.”

The minister urged a sensitive and respectful response to the discovery.

The commission was set up two years ago by the Irish Government to probe state sanctioned, religious-run institutions used to house pregnant mothers.

World news in pictures







29 show all World news in pictures























































1/29 28 February 2017 An Israeli youth supporter of settlements cries as Israeli police forces move protestors away from a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli forces. Nine homes in the Ofra settlement were found to have been built on private Palestinian land and the Israeli supreme court ordered them razed by March 5, rejecting last minute petitions to delay the demolition or have the buildings sealed instead Getty Images

2/29 28 February 2017 Israeli youths supporters of settlements surround and sit on a rooftop of a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli forces to evict the people in nine houses Getty Images

3/29 28 February 2017 Israeli policemen remove a pro-settlement activist during an operation by Israeli forces to evict residents from several homes in the Israeli settlement of Ofra Reuters

4/29 28 February 2017 Israeli youths supporters of settlements sit on the rooftop of a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli force Getty Images

5/29 28 February 2017 Marine Le Pen, French National Front (FN) political party leader and candidate for French 2017 presidential election, visits the International Agricultural Show in Paris, France Reuters

6/29 28 February 2017 An Afghan health worker vaccinates a child as relatives watch during a campaign to eliminate polio on the outskirts of Kabul, Afghanistan AP

7/29 28 February 2017 Displaced Iraqis who fled their homes are pictured at the special forces base as Iraqi forces battle with Islamic State militants in western Mosul, Iraq Reuters

8/29 28 February 2017 Makeshift shacks are seen at an encampment after the evacuation of members of the Roma community, along a section of the disused 'Petite Ceinture' circular railway line near Porte de la Chapelle in northern Paris Getty Images

9/29 28 February 2017 A general view of construction of the Pyongchang Olympic Village in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea. The Pyongchang Olympic Village will house athletes during the Pyongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games Getty Images

10/29 28 February 2017 A general view of construction of the Pyongchang Olympic Village in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea. The Pyongchang Olympic Village will house athletes during the Pyongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games Getty Images

11/29 28 February 2017 Special police carry boxes outside a building at Maerkisches Viertel area in Berlin, Germany Reuters

12/29 28 February 2017 Iraqi Special Forces soldiers walk on a street during a battle with Islamic State fighters in Mosul, Iraq Reuters

13/29 27 February 2017 Members of the Iraqi army's 9th Division fire a multiple rocket launcher from a hill in Talul al-Atshana, on the southwestern outskirts of Mosul, during an offensive to retake the city from Islamic State (IS) group fighter Getty Images

14/29 27 February 2017 French far-right Front National (FN) party candidate for the presidential election Marine Le Pen visits a stand at the Agriculture Fair in Paris Getty Images

15/29 27 February 2017 Members of the Iraqi army's 9th Division hold a position on a hill in Talul al-Atshana, on the southwestern outskirts of Mosul, during an offensive to retake the city from Islamic State (IS) group fighters Getty

16/29 27 February 2017 Emirati men walk across the dunes in the Rimah desert, west of Al-Ain in the United Arab Emirate Getty Images

17/29 27 February 2017 Comedian Bill Cosby leaves after a pre-trial hearing at the Montgomery County Courthouse in Norristown, Pennsylvania. The judge agreed to form a jury from another district in Pennsylvania, on the grounds that media coverage has potentially biased the local jury pool Getty Images

18/29 27 February 2017 Free Syrian Army fighters man a checkpoint on the eastern edge of the northern Syrian town of al-Bab, Syria Reuters

19/29 27 February 2017 A Rohingya refugee boy is seen at Kutupalang Unregistered Refugee Camp in Cox's Bazar, Banglades Reuters

20/29 27 February 2017 A dancer performs during a rehearsal at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images

21/29 27 February 2017 Dancers perform during a rehearsal at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images

22/29 27 February 2017 Ballet dancers backstage before a performance of a ballet production of Jean-Madeleine Schneitzhoeffer's La Sylphide at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images

23/29 27 February 2017 Syrian civil defence volunteers, known as the White Helmets, look for survivors amidst the debris following reported government airstrike on the Syrian town of Ariha, in the northwestern province of Idlib Getty Images

24/29 27 February 2017 President Donald Trump meets with leaders of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington. Also at the meeting are White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, and Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, on the couch AP

25/29 27 February 2017 Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway takes a photo as US President Donald Trump and leaders of historically black universities and colleges talk before a group photo in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

26/29 26 February 2017 Actor Janelle Monae, NASA mathematician Katherine Johnson and actors Taraji P. Henson and Octavia Spencer pose backstage during the 89th Annual Academy Awards Getty Images

27/29 26 February 2017 Syrian men walk amid the rubble of buildings destroyed a day earlier following reported government airstrike on the rebel-held town of Douma, on the eastern outskirts of the capital Damascus Getty Images

28/29 25 February 2017 A bridge modelled on London's Tower Bridge, in Suzhou, China's eastern Jiangsu province. The bridge features four 40 metre tall towers instead of two, but otherwise uses many design elements from the London original Getty Images

29/29 25 February 2017 A bridge modelled on London's Tower Bridge, in Suzhou, China's eastern Jiangsu province. The bridge features four 40 metre tall towers instead of two, but otherwise uses many design elements from the London original Getty Images

It was charged with investigating high mortality rates at mother and baby homes across several decades of the 20th century, the burial practises at these sites and also secret and illegal adoptions and vaccine trials on children.

It is thought about 35,000 unmarried mothers spent time in one of 10 homes run by religious orders in Ireland.

An inquiry was ordered after massive national and international focus on the story of the Sisters of the Bon Secours in Tuam, where the remains of 796 infants are believed to be buried.

Outside of Tuam, three other mother and baby homes have little angels plots believed to hold the remains of another 3,200 babies and infants.

They are Sean Ross Abbey, Tipperary – where the story of Philomena Lee began – Bessborough, Co Cork, and Castlepollard, Co Westmeath.

Infant mortality rates ranged from 30-50 per cent in some of the homes in the 1930s and 1940s.

Joan Burton, Labour Party TD, said the findings at Tuam are “truly gruesome and no doubt deeply upsetting to anyone associated with the Tuam home”.

“The grim discovery also highlights the important work of local historian Catherine Corless in bringing this case to light,” she added.

“It now appears as though these children were interred in some kind of mass grave, possibly without normal funeral rights, and maybe even without their wider families having been made aware.

“There have also been allegations that there may have been similar instances with other mother and baby homes around the country.

“I believe the government should resource the commission so that all such allegations can be included.”

Ms Burton added: “It is now incumbent upon the Catholic Church to assist in whatever way they can, so that the truth should be set out in relation to these matters.”

PA