William and Kate to visit Germany and extend 'hand of friendship' to Angela Merkel in Brexit boost
William and Kate to visit Germany and extend 'hand of friendship' to Angela Merkel in Brexit boost
he Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will travel to Germany in July to extend a "hand of friendship" less than four months after Theresa May triggers Brexit negotiations. Boris Johnson, the Foreign Secretary, has asked the couple to make an official visit to Poland and Germany in July amid claims that the couple are becoming Britian's "brexit ambassadors" The visit to Germany is likely to be particularly significant and officials hope that it will help "detoxify" negotiations and smooth the way for a future trade deal.  The Duke and Duchess are expected to meet Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, during a visit to Berlin. uring the trip to Poland they are expected to meet Beata Szydlo, the Polish Prime Minister, and visit the site of the Auschwitz concentration camp. A Government source said that the visit will help show Britain's desire to retain strong links with European nations after Brexit. The Royal couple are already scheduled to make a two-day trip to Paris later this month. The Duke of Cambridge traveled to Germany in the Summer, where he gave a speech alongside Chancellor Merkel in which he said that the "depth" of Britain's friendship will not change after Brexit. The Duchess of Cambridge has yet to make an official trip to Germany and the Cambridges have not toured Poland before on behalf of the Government. uring a state visit to Germany in 2015, the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh visited the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp to mark the 70th anniversary of its liberation by British forces. rs May has repeatedly said that while Britain is not leaving the European Union it will remain firm friends with Europe. The British monarchy has close ties with Germany as a succession of sovereigns including George I - born in what is now modern German - were rulers of Hanover in Germany. The 300th anniversary of what is known as the "personal union" was marked in 2014, and Beatrice and Eugenie visited the country previous year.

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will travel to Germany in July to extend a "hand of friendship" less than four months after Theresa May triggers Brexit negotiations.

Boris Johnson, the Foreign Secretary, has asked the couple to make an official visit to Poland and Germany in July amid claims that the couple are becoming Britian's "brexit ambassadors"

The visit to Germany is likely to be particularly significant and officials hope that it will help "detoxify" negotiations and smooth the way for a future trade deal. The Duke and Duchess are expected to meet Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, during a visit to Berlin.