Michael Jackson's daughter Paris Jackson signs with modeling agency
Michael Jackson's daughter Paris Jackson signs with modeling agency


Federal and state health officials are investigating an outbreak of 12 cases of E. coli reported in several states.

President Donald Trump may want to take a cue from one of his predecessors, George W. Bush, when it comes to lightening up.

George W. Bush tells Jimmy Kimmel: 'The best humor is when you make fun of yourself'

Bria Loveday of Michigan told "GMA" about her shocked reaction to the news Tesla is using her marketing idea.

5th grader who gave marketing advice to Tesla is 'really, really excited' they're using her idea

The band will be going on tour through North America this spring.

The announcement confirms decades of suspicions that the vast majority of children who died at the home were interred on the site in unmarked graves, a relatively common practice at such Catholic-run facilities amid high child mortality rates.

The chain of senior-living communities is aimed at active retirees who like "nibblin' on sponge cake, watchin' the sun bake."

Williams appears on "Popcorn With Peter Travers" to talk about her new role in the box office thriller "Get Out"

Allison Williams on what moviegoers might learn from 'Get Out'

Williams appears on "Popcorn With Peter Travers" to talk about her new role in the box office thriller "Get Out."

Paris Jackson has signed with a modeling agency.

The daughter of the late King of Pop is now being represented by IMG Models, she wrote on Instagram Thursday.

"Thank you @imgmodels," she wrote. "I feel very lucky and blessed."

The agency confirmed the news with an Instagram post of its own.

Jackson, 18, told Rolling Stone that after she graduated from high school in 2015, she spent one year in community college before deciding she wanted to do something else with her career. Because her adolescence was plagued by constant criticism from online trolls who mocked her appearance, she found modeling to be cathartic.

"I've had self-esteem issues for a really, really long time," she said. "Plenty of people think I'm ugly, and plenty of people don't. But there's a moment when I'm modeling where I forget about my self-esteem issues and focus on what the photographer's telling me – and I feel pretty. And in that sense, it's selfish."