Green river water leaves these residents seeing red, feeling blue
Green river water leaves these residents seeing red, feeling blue
Shares               St. Patrick’s Day may be right around the corner but residents living along a river in the Pyrenees mountains were hardly feeling festive after discovering that the Gran Valira River, which runs through Andorra and northeastern Spain, had turned emerald green this week. Officials in both countries attempted to reassure residents alarmed by the fluorescent color of the river, which had turned green Thursday at its source in Andorra and further downstream into the Catalonia region of Spain.   The incredible Hulk pees in the river of my little country. A post shared by @dvlmnc on Mar 2, 2017 at 4:46am PST   L'aigua del riu Valira baixa colorada de verd. Segons el Govern, es tracta d'unes proves a la font d'Arinsal i NO és tòxic. pic.twitter.com/0YxUbEKI93  A harmless dye had intentionally been added to the river, the Andorran Ministry of Health said a statement. "It is an action that has no impact beyond the visual," the ministry said, adding that the substance was harmless to both people and the natural environment and would dissolve in a few hours. Albert Batalla, the mayor of Seu d’Urgell, one of the Spanish towns on the river’s banks, confirmed the information in a statement, explaining that the dye was being used to investigate a water bottling plant. "It is a harmless, non-toxic and bio-degradable dye that has been used for a water research,’’ he wrote. The plant was reportedly linked to a gastroenteritis outbreak in Catalonia last year that left thousands of people sick after they drank from contaminated office water coolers.   Arinsal gone green ?? A post shared by Penelope Rochford (@peneloperoch) on Mar 2, 2017 at 5:06am PST  Images of the river have caused consternation on social media, where photos of the vivid green water have been posted by residents. Indeed, Chicago might be the only place where a river’s suddenly turning bright green might not greeted with alarm by residents; the city has an annual tradition of dying the Chicago River green the Saturday before St. Patrick’s Day, which is in two weeks. Shares                  Green river water leaves these residents seeing red, feeling blue   Man accused of making threats against Jewish community centers arrested in St. Louis   Yellen signals the Fed will likely raise rates this month   Kansas shooting survivor praised by Indian diplomats   One N. Korean deported, another sought in nerve-agent killing   2 inmates killed in Nebraska prison revolt identified   GOP health bill: Less government; but what about coverage?   Indictment sends ripple of doubt through Baltimore cases   Experts find mass grave at ex-Catholic orphanage in Ireland   5th-grader who gave marketing advice to Tesla is 'really, really excited' it's using her idea   Rare penicillin mold auctioned for more than $14K   4-year-old wrestler runs away from competitor   Cat rescued from inside chimney: 'She was just happy to be out of there'   2-year-old with heart defect invited to senior prom   Photos mistakenly donated to Goodwill returned to owner   Lego launching Women of NASA toy set   2 dead, 4 injured in fire at Baltimore assisted living home   US admiral in disputed South China Sea: 'We will be here'   Oregon lawmakers push to protect pot users' info from US   Sinn Fein enjoys vote surge in Northern Ireland election   A look at the known ties between Trump associates and Russia   The Russian ambassador who has the ear of Trump’s key people   Kremlin: Trump totally right that uproar over Sessions is 'witch hunt'   VP Mike Pence used private email for state business as governor   Democrat accuses Comey of withholding Russia information   White House aides told to keep Russia-related materials   Patrick Stewart applying to be US citizen to oppose Trump   Tori Spelling welcomes fifth child   Harvard seeks to confront historical ties to slavery   Josh Gad wants 'audiences to decide' if his 'Beauty and the Beast' character is gay   Hugh Jackman once told to find another job after original 'X-Men'   Jimmy Buffett-inspired Margaritaville retirement community coming soon

St. Patrick’s Day may be right around the corner but residents living along a river in the Pyrenees mountains were hardly feeling festive after discovering that the Gran Valira River, which runs through Andorra and northeastern Spain, had turned emerald green this week.

Officials in both countries attempted to reassure residents alarmed by the fluorescent color of the river, which had turned green Thursday at its source in Andorra and further downstream into the Catalonia region of Spain.

The incredible Hulk pees in the river of my little country. A post shared by @dvlmnc on Mar 2, 2017 at 4:46am PST

L'aigua del riu Valira baixa colorada de verd. Segons el Govern, es tracta d'unes proves a la font d'Arinsal i NO és tòxic. pic.twitter.com/0YxUbEKI93 — Comú Sant Julià (@comusantjulia) March 2, 2017

A harmless dye had intentionally been added to the river, the Andorran Ministry of Health said a statement. "It is an action that has no impact beyond the visual," the ministry said, adding that the substance was harmless to both people and the natural environment and would dissolve in a few hours.

Albert Batalla, the mayor of Seu d’Urgell, one of the Spanish towns on the river’s banks, confirmed the information in a statement, explaining that the dye was being used to investigate a water bottling plant. "It is a harmless, non-toxic and bio-degradable dye that has been used for a water research,’’ he wrote.

The plant was reportedly linked to a gastroenteritis outbreak in Catalonia last year that left thousands of people sick after they drank from contaminated office water coolers.

Arinsal gone green ?? A post shared by Penelope Rochford (@peneloperoch) on Mar 2, 2017 at 5:06am PST

Images of the river have caused consternation on social media, where photos of the vivid green water have been posted by residents.

Indeed, Chicago might be the only place where a river’s suddenly turning bright green might not greeted with alarm by residents; the city has an annual tradition of dying the Chicago River green the Saturday before St. Patrick’s Day, which is in two weeks.