From Kickstarter To $20M In Revenue: How 3Doodler's Inventors Built A Business In 3D Printing Pens
From Kickstarter To $20M In Revenue: How 3Doodler's Inventors Built A Business In 3D Printing Pens
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Amy Feldman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. WobbleWorks cofounders Max Bogue (left) and Peter Dilworth came up with the idea for the 3Doodler 3D printing pen when their 3D printer glitched making a dinosaur leg. (Photo by Craig Barritt/Getty Images for AOL Inc.) Last spring, we named WobbleWorks one of the 10 most successful companies built on Kickstarter. At the time, it had raised $3.9 million on the crowdfunding platform in two campaigns for the 3Doodler, a 3D printing pen that had launched there in 2013. Turns out that was just the beginning for WobbleWorks, which had sales last year around $20 million from three different lines of pens and recently signed licensing deals with the Cartoon Network and CBS for kits featuring, respectively, the Powerpuff Girls and Star Trek. Like 3D printers, 3D printing pens allow users to easily create three-dimensional objects. Users simply draw what they want, generally with plastic rather than ink. “Within a couple of months, we’ll be at our millionth pen, which for three-and-a-half years is an awesome achievement,” says Daniel Cowen, 35, a former lawyer who is one of the company’s three cofounders. Perhaps more awesome, the fast-growing company, which has 34 employees and offices in New York and Hong Kong, is cash-flow positive, and has avoided taking on either investors or debt. As the technology for 3D printers has advanced, numerous companies have sprung up to take advantage of it. For 3Doodler’s inventors, Max Bogue and Peter Dilworth, the idea of having a 3D printing pen was a simpler, more intuitive idea. As toy inventors, they conceived of the idea as something fun, but it is also beginning to have more serious applications. The home 3D printing market is expected to reach $2.35 billion by 2022, according to estimates by research firm Research and Markets, and today 3D pens, sold by the likes of Kuman, Mynt3d and 7Tech, as well as 3Doodler, are a booming business. “You can use the 3Doodler to create what’s in your imagination pretty quickly and by hand,” Bogue says. WobbleWorks cofounder Daniel Cowen joined the company in 2013 to help launch its first Kickstarter campaign for its 3Doodler 3D printing pens. "Within a couple of months," he says, "we'll be at our millionth pen." (Photo courtesy of WobbleWorks.) Bogue, 35, and Dilworth, 51, had previously worked in research and development for WowWee, a robotics toy company based in Hong Kong, and Dilworth had also worked as a researcher at MIT. In 2010, they teamed up to create WobbleWorks, their own toy-invention company that initially licensed concepts to large toy companies. “We were doing that successfully when we came up with the 3Doodler,” Bogue says. As with so many inventions, a random accident sparked the idea for the 3Doodler. Dilworth had invented Troody, a walking biped dinosaur, and he and Bogue were working on a new version of it. One day, they were printing a dinosaur leg for Troody on a 3D printer, and the printer made a mistake. “Peter nudged me and said, ‘I wish you could just take the nozzle off the printer and use that.’ Then we slapped our heads and said, ‘Why doesn’t that exist?’” Bogue recalls. They searched to see if anyone had created something like it and couldn’t find anything. So they printed some parts from the 3D printer to create a 3D printing pen and wrote 3Doodler on the side of it. “It worked horribly,” Bogue says, “but we said, ‘That’s cool.’ Then we went to see if any of those toy companies we worked with in the past were interested, and they were like, ‘Eh, no.’” Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Last spring, we named WobbleWorks one of the 10 most successful companies built on Kickstarter. At the time, it had raised $3.9 million on the crowdfunding platform in two campaigns for the 3Doodler, a 3D printing pen that had launched there in 2013. Turns out that was just the beginning for WobbleWorks, which had sales last year around $20 million from three different lines of pens and recently signed licensing deals with the Cartoon Network and CBS for kits featuring, respectively, the Powerpuff Girls and Star Trek.

Like 3D printers, 3D printing pens allow users to easily create three-dimensional objects. Users simply draw what they want, generally with plastic rather than ink.

“Within a couple of months, we’ll be at our millionth pen, which for three-and-a-half years is an awesome achievement,” says Daniel Cowen, 35, a former lawyer who is one of the company’s three cofounders. Perhaps more awesome, the fast-growing company, which has 34 employees and offices in New York and Hong Kong, is cash-flow positive, and has avoided taking on either investors or debt.

As the technology for 3D printers has advanced, numerous companies have sprung up to take advantage of it. For 3Doodler’s inventors, Max Bogue and Peter Dilworth, the idea of having a 3D printing pen was a simpler, more intuitive idea. As toy inventors, they conceived of the idea as something fun, but it is also beginning to have more serious applications. The home 3D printing market is expected to reach $2.35 billion by 2022, according to estimates by research firm Research and Markets, and today 3D pens, sold by the likes of Kuman, Mynt3d and 7Tech, as well as 3Doodler, are a booming business. “You can use the 3Doodler to create what’s in your imagination pretty quickly and by hand,” Bogue says.

Bogue, 35, and Dilworth, 51, had previously worked in research and development for WowWee, a robotics toy company based in Hong Kong, and Dilworth had also worked as a researcher at MIT. In 2010, they teamed up to create WobbleWorks, their own toy-invention company that initially licensed concepts to large toy companies. “We were doing that successfully when we came up with the 3Doodler,” Bogue says.

As with so many inventions, a random accident sparked the idea for the 3Doodler. Dilworth had invented Troody, a walking biped dinosaur, and he and Bogue were working on a new version of it. One day, they were printing a dinosaur leg for Troody on a 3D printer, and the printer made a mistake. “Peter nudged me and said, ‘I wish you could just take the nozzle off the printer and use that.’ Then we slapped our heads and said, ‘Why doesn’t that exist?’” Bogue recalls. They searched to see if anyone had created something like it and couldn’t find anything. So they printed some parts from the 3D printer to create a 3D printing pen and wrote 3Doodler on the side of it. “It worked horribly,” Bogue says, “but we said, ‘That’s cool.’ Then we went to see if any of those toy companies we worked with in the past were interested, and they were like, ‘Eh, no.’”