Freezing lows will put blossoms at risk this weekend. Here’s how to protect them.

It hasn’t dropped below freezing in the District since Feb. 18. Before that, the capital went 17 days without falling below 32 degrees — a new record-long warm streak for the city — and the plants took note. Some cherry blossom varieties began blooming in mid-February, and magnolia trees are in full-flower mode. But it’s going to freeze Friday and Saturday night, which will cause damage to some types of plants if they aren’t cared for. Overnight lows Friday will be in the 20s, and they might even get down into the teens Saturday night. Areas in the Beltway will be on the warm end of that spectrum — mid- to upper 20s — while the suburbs will feel the coldest temperatures. First things first — the yoshino-variety cherry blossoms at the Tidal Basin will be fine, says Michael Stachowicz, the turf management specialist for the Mall and Memorial Parks. “The buds are very hardy, the cold weather should have no effect on them,” Stachowicz told us. Whew! He said that they are most tender and at risk starting in the “peduncle elongation” stage, which is still at least a week and a half away. At the moment, the protective encasing that surrounds the buds is still in place, which will mitigate impact during the upcoming chilly nights. “We are currently at florets visible [stage], although a walk around the Tidal Basin will yield something from all stages,” Stachowicz reported. “I don’t remember this much variation in the stages in the past. Even in the indicator tree, there are many stages on display.” Now, on to the pretty things blooming in your yard. David Streit, our Thursday forecaster (who also happens to be a gardening expert), told us it really depends on how deep into the 20s the temperature falls Friday night. If lows get into the low 20s, it will kill off the blooms on cherry and magnolia trees, but if it only gets to the upper 20s, it won’t be nearly as damaging. If your yard is full of beautiful flowers and greens and you’d like to try to save them from frozen disaster, there are a few things you can do. First, the trees are probably helpless at this point, unless you want to get a massive tarp to cover the entire tree. That seems like more work than it’s worth. But there are other things you can save. “The main threat is to camellias,” David told us. “And if they can be covered with a blanket the next two nights, it would help quite a bit since the ground is warmer than usual.” “The same is true for any lettuce, early veggie seedlings that have sprouted,” he added. “A plastic or cloth cover the next two nights could save them, but make sure to weight [the cloths] down so they stay put. If you don’t have covers, you can drench the plants with water. It sounds counterintuitive, but this thermodynamic trick is something professional farmers and gardeners have been taking advantage of for decades. If the plants are covered in water, the cold air will have to “work” to freeze the water first before it can even get to the leaves and blossoms. During short overnight cold snaps like these, it delays the freezing process just long enough for temperatures to warm up again. Shrubs, forsythia, quince and witch hazel are all blooming now, but these are hardy plants and they probably won’t be at risk.

It hasn’t dropped below freezing in the District since Feb. 18. Before that, the capital went 17 days without falling below 32 degrees — a new record-long warm streak for the city — and the plants took note. Some cherry blossom varieties began blooming in mid-February, and magnolia trees are in full-flower mode.

But it’s going to freeze Friday and Saturday night, which will cause damage to some types of plants if they aren’t cared for. Overnight lows Friday will be in the 20s, and they might even get down into the teens Saturday night. Areas in the Beltway will be on the warm end of that spectrum — mid- to upper 20s — while the suburbs will feel the coldest temperatures.

First things first — the yoshino-variety cherry blossoms at the Tidal Basin will be fine, says Michael Stachowicz, the turf management specialist for the Mall and Memorial Parks.

“The buds are very hardy, the cold weather should have no effect on them,” Stachowicz told us. Whew!

He said that they are most tender and at risk starting in the “peduncle elongation” stage, which is still at least a week and a half away. At the moment, the protective encasing that surrounds the buds is still in place, which will mitigate impact during the upcoming chilly nights.

“We are currently at florets visible [stage], although a walk around the Tidal Basin will yield something from all stages,” Stachowicz reported. “I don’t remember this much variation in the stages in the past. Even in the indicator tree, there are many stages on display.”

Now, on to the pretty things blooming in your yard.

David Streit, our Thursday forecaster (who also happens to be a gardening expert), told us it really depends on how deep into the 20s the temperature falls Friday night. If lows get into the low 20s, it will kill off the blooms on cherry and magnolia trees, but if it only gets to the upper 20s, it won’t be nearly as damaging.

If your yard is full of beautiful flowers and greens and you’d like to try to save them from frozen disaster, there are a few things you can do.

First, the trees are probably helpless at this point, unless you want to get a massive tarp to cover the entire tree. That seems like more work than it’s worth.

But there are other things you can save. “The main threat is to camellias,” David told us. “And if they can be covered with a blanket the next two nights, it would help quite a bit since the ground is warmer than usual.”

“The same is true for any lettuce, early veggie seedlings that have sprouted,” he added. “A plastic or cloth cover the next two nights could save them, but make sure to weight [the cloths] down so they stay put.

If you don’t have covers, you can drench the plants with water. It sounds counterintuitive, but this thermodynamic trick is something professional farmers and gardeners have been taking advantage of for decades.

If the plants are covered in water, the cold air will have to “work” to freeze the water first before it can even get to the leaves and blossoms. During short overnight cold snaps like these, it delays the freezing process just long enough for temperatures to warm up again.

Shrubs, forsythia, quince and witch hazel are all blooming now, but these are hardy plants and they probably won’t be at risk.

Jason Samenow contributed to this post.