D.C. Circuit Refuses to See Limits to Government Power and Inexcusably Upholds the Net Worth Sweep
D.C. Circuit Refuses to See Limits to Government Power and Inexcusably Upholds the Net Worth Sweep
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Richard Epstein       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. On February 21, 2017, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued its long-awaited opinion in in his official capacity as Secretary of Treasury.  (The original name of the case was was Treasury Secretary when the case was brought.)  By a two-to-one vote, the Court, through Judge Patricia Millett and Senior Judge Douglas Ginsburg, rejected the request of Perry Capital that the Court set aside the August 17, 2012 net worth sweep (NWS) under the Third Amendment to the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements ( PSPAs ) that diverted all profits from the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into the United States Treasury. That portion of the opinion was met with a pointed dissent by Judge Janice Rogers Brown.  The majority’s opinion also contained, as a second act, an extensive and convoluted discussion of the nature of the individual claims against Treasury that might on remand survive, a set of issues which was never at issue in the appeal, never briefed by the parties and on which Judge Brown did not comment.  The majority opinion contained 73 pages of dense, frequently impenetrable, prose that too often dwelled on a variety of esoteric procedural and pleading issues collateral to the big dollar dispute. It is impossible to analyze this decision in a single column, but in my capacity as advisor to several institutional investors, this initial analysis is devoted to examining the clash of views between the majority and Judge Brown on whether the various plaintiffs’ claims against the Federal Housing Finance Authority (FHFA) and Treasury should survive.  It should be no surprise that, in my view, the dissent has the stronger of the argument.  The majority opinion is rife with factual errors, fundamental business misconceptions, and deliberate statutory sleights of hand in which, as will become painfully apparent, an omitted ellipsis turns a well-crafted statute utterly upside down.  In my view, this decision needs to be overturned, either by the panel on reconsideration, the D.C. Circuit , or the Supreme Court. It is often said that the outcome of a case turns on its statement of facts, and in the confused and skewed account of the basic transaction at issue from the start tilts the balance heavily in favor of the government. The majority opinion rightly notes that the original bailout deal of September 2008 created a new senior preferred stock to Treasury that carried with it a 10% annual cash dividend or 12% “in kind” dividend on the amounts drawn from Treasury.  After that it is all downhill: Fannie’s and Freddie’s frequent inability to make those dividend payments, however, meant that they often borrowed more cash from Treasury just to pay the dividends, which in turn increased the dividends that Fannie and Freddie were obligated to pay in future quarters. In 2012, FHFA and Treasury adopted the Third Amendment to their stock purchase agreement, which replaced the fixed 10% dividend with a formula by which Fannie and Freddie just paid to Treasury an amount (roughly) equal to their quarterly net worth, however much or little that may be. At no time does the majority opinion note the vast difference in the chaotic financial environment at the time of the original 2008 bailout and the stable markets when the NWS undertaken nearly four years later, or the massive profits that documents revealed in litigation show that Treasury and FHFA fully knew would come right after the NWS went into effect—payments that would have eliminated any supposed  inability of Fannie and Freddie to pay dividends going forward.  Indeed, the majority opinion deliberately chose to ignore documents on this point showing that Treasury and FHFA affirmatively misled the very lower court the opinion of which was being appealed here.  Instead, the majority opinion only makes one fleeting reference to the realization that the deferred tax assets (DTAs), which had been incorrectly written off in 2008 had not lost all their market value and were about to be written up.  The majority opinion also noted that Fannie and Freddie in their SEC filings (reviewed and blessed by FHFA which as conservator put them into this harmful financial arrangement, of course) both companies admitted that they would be unable to make payments in the long run, which is of course true if the company is going to be bled dry by the NWS. Worse, the majority made light of the option built into the agreement that allowed FHFA to exercise an “in-kind” option that allowed for Fannie and Freddie to defer, indefinitely dividend payments so long as they paid 12% dividend on the added balances, .  Rather than facing up to this point, the majority simply concluded that FHFA, as conservator or receiver, had no obligation to take advantage of this deferred option, because “[The Housing Economic] Recovery Act [HERA] does not compel that choice over the variable dividend to Treasury put in place by the Third Amendment.”  So, the majority opinion  held that it did not matter that the FHFA could have avoided any purported danger to the GSEs by exercising its payment in-kind-option.  In so doing, the majority allowed FHFA and Treasury in combination to impose the NWS that necessarily undermined the conservatorship by turning the enterprises’ money over to Treasury for its own purposes.  FHFA’s statutory charge to return the GSEs to a safe and solvent condition was wholly ignored. Finally, the majority opinion showed little grasp of the basic economic transaction. As I have repeatedly argued , there is no need to take discovery on documents given that the transaction itself gave full evidence of both the intention and effect for two government agencies to wipe out the financial interests of the private shareholder.  And to this extent, the plaintiffs were right to insist that they should win no matter what the financial state of affairs.  All that is needed is to treat excess payments as a return of capital that reduced the outstanding levels of senior preferred shares on which the 10% dividend was owed.  But if bad faith were required, then a remand to Judge Lamberth would quickly reveal that FHFA and Treasury colluded to hatch this scheme in August 2012 precisely because at that time they knew of the extent of the anticipated gain.  There is no fatal inconsistency in the GSE’s position.  The plaintiff’s case is so strong that they win whether or not they are asked to prove bad faith by FHFA and Treasury. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

On February 21, 2017, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued its long-awaited opinion in Perry Capital LLC v. Mnuchin in his official capacity as Secretary of Treasury. (The original name of the case was Perry Capital LLC v. Lew . Lew was Treasury Secretary when the case was brought.) By a two-to-one vote, the Court, through Judge Patricia Millett and Senior Judge Douglas Ginsburg, rejected the request of Perry Capital that the Court set aside the August 17, 2012 net worth sweep (NWS) under the Third Amendment to the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements (PSPAs) that diverted all profits from the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into the United States Treasury. That portion of the opinion was met with a pointed dissent by Judge Janice Rogers Brown. The majority’s opinion also contained, as a second act, an extensive and convoluted discussion of the nature of the individual claims against Treasury that might on remand survive, a set of issues which was never at issue in the appeal, never briefed by the parties and on which Judge Brown did not comment. The majority opinion contained 73 pages of dense, frequently impenetrable, prose that too often dwelled on a variety of esoteric procedural and pleading issues collateral to the big dollar dispute.

It is impossible to analyze this decision in a single column, but in my capacity as advisor to several institutional investors, this initial analysis is devoted to examining the clash of views between the majority and Judge Brown on whether the various plaintiffs’ claims against the Federal Housing Finance Authority (FHFA) and Treasury should survive. It should be no surprise that, in my view, the dissent has the stronger of the argument. The majority opinion is rife with factual errors, fundamental business misconceptions, and deliberate statutory sleights of hand in which, as will become painfully apparent, an omitted ellipsis turns a well-crafted statute utterly upside down. In my view, this decision needs to be overturned, either by the panel on reconsideration, the D.C. Circuit en banc, or the Supreme Court.

The Factual Record

It is often said that the outcome of a case turns on its statement of facts, and in Perry the confused and skewed account of the basic transaction at issue from the start tilts the balance heavily in favor of the government. The majority opinion rightly notes that the original bailout deal of September 2008 created a new senior preferred stock to Treasury that carried with it a 10% annual cash dividend or 12% “in kind” dividend on the amounts drawn from Treasury. After that it is all downhill:

Fannie’s and Freddie’s frequent inability to make those dividend payments, however, meant that they often borrowed more cash from Treasury just to pay the dividends, which in turn increased the dividends that Fannie and Freddie were obligated to pay in future quarters. In 2012, FHFA and Treasury adopted the Third Amendment to their stock purchase agreement, which replaced the fixed 10% dividend with a formula by which Fannie and Freddie just paid to Treasury an amount (roughly) equal to their quarterly net worth, however much or little that may be.

At no time does the majority opinion note the vast difference in the chaotic financial environment at the time of the original 2008 bailout and the stable markets when the NWS undertaken nearly four years later, or the massive profits that documents revealed in litigation show that Treasury and FHFA fully knew would come right after the NWS went into effect—payments that would have eliminated any supposed inability of Fannie and Freddie to pay dividends going forward. Indeed, the majority opinion deliberately chose to ignore documents on this point showing that Treasury and FHFA affirmatively misled the very lower court the opinion of which was being appealed here. Instead, the majority opinion only makes one fleeting reference to the realization that the deferred tax assets (DTAs), which had been incorrectly written off in 2008 had not lost all their market value and were about to be written up. The majority opinion also noted that Fannie and Freddie in their SEC filings (reviewed and blessed by FHFA which as conservator put them into this harmful financial arrangement, of course) both companies admitted that they would be unable to make payments in the long run, which is of course true if the company is going to be bled dry by the NWS.

Worse, the majority made light of the option built into the agreement that allowed FHFA to exercise an “in-kind” option that allowed for Fannie and Freddie to defer, indefinitely dividend payments so long as they paid 12% dividend on the added balances, which completely obviated the need for any further draws. Rather than facing up to this point, the majority simply concluded that FHFA, as conservator or receiver, had no obligation to take advantage of this deferred option, because “[The Housing Economic] Recovery Act [HERA] does not compel that choice over the variable dividend to Treasury put in place by the Third Amendment.” So, the majority opinion held that it did not matter that the FHFA could have avoided any purported danger to the GSEs by exercising its payment in-kind-option. In so doing, the majority allowed FHFA and Treasury in combination to impose the NWS that necessarily undermined the conservatorship by turning the enterprises’ money over to Treasury for its own purposes. FHFA’s statutory charge to return the GSEs to a safe and solvent condition was wholly ignored.

Finally, the majority opinion showed little grasp of the basic economic transaction. As I have repeatedly argued, there is no need to take discovery on documents given that the transaction itself gave full evidence of both the intention and effect for two government agencies to wipe out the financial interests of the private shareholder. And to this extent, the plaintiffs were right to insist that they should win no matter what the financial state of affairs. All that is needed is to treat excess payments as a return of capital that reduced the outstanding levels of senior preferred shares on which the 10% dividend was owed. But if bad faith were required, then a remand to Judge Lamberth would quickly reveal that FHFA and Treasury colluded to hatch this scheme in August 2012 precisely because at that time they knew of the extent of the anticipated gain. There is no fatal inconsistency in the GSE’s position. The plaintiff’s case is so strong that they win whether or not they are asked to prove bad faith by FHFA and Treasury.