Somewhere, Taylor Swift Is Interpretive Dancing to Lorde's 'Green Light'
Somewhere, Taylor Swift Is Interpretive Dancing to Lorde's 'Green Light'
Somewhere, Taylor Swift Is Interpretive Dancing to Lorde's 'Green Light'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Pop stars from Katy Perry  to Camila Cabello are celebrating the release of Lorde 's new single "Green Light," but Taylor Swift might be the most excited of all.Â On Thursday night, Swift posted a screen shot of her streaming the song to Instagram, announcing she need to take a break to create an interpretive dance to the song. Funny thing is, she didn't just come out and say it like that.Â "g2g brb just gonna make up an interpretive dance to this magnificent bop for the ages. ELLA I LOVE YOU," Swift wrote with the post, using basically as much slang as possible.Â  When a fan pointed out Swift's overdoing the acronyms, the singer responded on Tumblr with even more of the same and one important message: "more is more is the new less is more." "Lol bb you must be jking," she wrote. "G2G brb gonna learn more teen words cause bae FOR FACTS that particular bop has me shook as well as lit." g2g brb just gonna make up an interpretive dance to this magnificent bop for the ages ELLA I LOVE YOU A post shared by Taylor Swift (@taylorswift) on Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Taylor Swift and Lorde attend the Republic Records Grammy celebration at Hyde on Sunset on Feb. 15, 2016 in Los Angeles.

Pop stars from Katy Perry to Camila Cabello are celebrating the release of Lorde's new single "Green Light," but Taylor Swift might be the most excited of all.Â

On Thursday night, Swift posted a screen shot of her streaming the song to Instagram, announcing she need to take a break to create an interpretive dance to the song. Funny thing is, she didn't just come out and say it like that.Â

"g2g brb just gonna make up an interpretive dance to this magnificent bop for the ages. ELLA I LOVE YOU," Swift wrote with the post, using basically as much slang as possible.Â

When a fan pointed out Swift's overdoing the acronyms, the singer responded on Tumblr with even more of the same and one important message: "more is more is the new less is more."

"Lol bb you must be jking," she wrote. "G2G brb gonna learn more teen words cause bae FOR FACTS that particular bop has me shook as well as lit."

Â g2g brb just gonna make up an interpretive dance to this magnificent bop for the ages ELLA I LOVE YOU A post shared by Taylor Swift (@taylorswift) on Mar 2, 2017 at 8:34pm PST

Â