River turns bright green to the horror of residents
River turns bright green to the horror of residents
Shares               St. Patrick’s Day may be right around the corner but residents living along a river in the Pyrenees mountains were hardly feeling festive after discovering that the Gran Valira River, which runs through Andorra and northeastern Spain, had turned emerald green this week. Officials in both countries attempted to reassure residents alarmed by the fluorescent color of the river, which had turned green Thursday at its source in Andorra and further downstream into the Catalonia region of Spain.   The incredible Hulk pees in the river of my little country. A post shared by @dvlmnc on Mar 2, 2017 at 4:46am PST   L'aigua del riu Valira baixa colorada de verd. Segons el Govern, es tracta d'unes proves a la font d'Arinsal i NO és tòxic. pic.twitter.com/0YxUbEKI93  A harmless dye had intentionally been added to the river, the Andorran Ministry of Health said a statement. "It is an action that has no impact beyond the visual," the ministry said, adding that the substance was harmless to both people and the natural environment and would dissolve in a few hours. Albert Batalla, the mayor of Seu d’Urgell, one of the Spanish towns on the river’s banks, confirmed the information in a statement, explaining that the dye was being used to investigate a water bottling plant. "It is a harmless, non-toxic and bio-degradable dye that has been used for a water research,’’ he wrote. The plant was reportedly linked to a gastroenteritis outbreak in Catalonia last year that left thousands of people sick after they drank from contaminated office water coolers.   Arinsal gone green ?? A post shared by Penelope Rochford (@peneloperoch) on Mar 2, 2017 at 5:06am PST  Images of the river have caused consternation on social media, where photos of the vivid green water have been posted by residents. Indeed, Chicago might be the only place where a river’s suddenly turning bright green might not greeted with alarm by residents; the city has an annual tradition of dying the Chicago River green the Saturday before St. Patrick’s Day, which is in two weeks. Shares                  River turns bright green to the horror of residents   DHS considering separating families illegally crossing border   Keystone pipeline won't have to use American steel   Trump blames Dems for confirmation delays, but red tape is culprit   Kremlin: Trump totally right that uproar over Sessions is 'witch hunt'   Zika infection during pregnancy may increase birth defect risk 20-fold   Experts find mass grave at ex-Catholic orphanage in Ireland   Yellen signals the Fed will likely raise rates this month   Texas woman who got prison for voter fraud out on appeal   Kansas shooting survivor praised by Indian diplomats   'Dobby' the newborn giraffe gets plasma treatment to bolster immune system   5th-grader who gave marketing advice to Tesla is 'really, really excited' it's using her idea   Young couple finds it 'freeing' to travel the country in a converted van   Rare penicillin mold auctioned for more than $14K   4-year-old wrestler runs away from competitor   Nebraska prison scrutinized after 2nd deadly riot in 2 years   Inspectors cited problems at care home where fire killed 2   Man who doesn't know how to swim rescues boy in hotel pool   Trump to host Germany's Merkel at the White House   US admiral in disputed South China Sea: 'We will be here'   Former NFL player raises reward to 'catch monster' in teen girls' killings   New Orleans police investigate killings of 2 transgender women   Judge: Casey Anthony may have accidentally killed daughter   US special ops step up strikes on al-Qaeda, ISIS, insiders say   More than 30 airstrikes in Yemen mark escalated fight against terror group   Trump touts plans to bolster military aboard new aircraft carrier   Dying author pens essay with dating profile of husband   West Bank hotel unveils rooms decorated by elusive artist Banksy   Deported Korean says Malaysia threatened to harm his family   Natalie Portman welcomes a daughter   Hugh Jackman once told to find another job after original 'X-Men'   Jimmy Buffett-inspired Margaritaville retirement community coming soon

St. Patrick’s Day may be right around the corner but residents living along a river in the Pyrenees mountains were hardly feeling festive after discovering that the Gran Valira River, which runs through Andorra and northeastern Spain, had turned emerald green this week.

Officials in both countries attempted to reassure residents alarmed by the fluorescent color of the river, which had turned green Thursday at its source in Andorra and further downstream into the Catalonia region of Spain.

The incredible Hulk pees in the river of my little country. A post shared by @dvlmnc on Mar 2, 2017 at 4:46am PST

L'aigua del riu Valira baixa colorada de verd. Segons el Govern, es tracta d'unes proves a la font d'Arinsal i NO és tòxic. pic.twitter.com/0YxUbEKI93 — Comú Sant Julià (@comusantjulia) March 2, 2017

A harmless dye had intentionally been added to the river, the Andorran Ministry of Health said a statement. "It is an action that has no impact beyond the visual," the ministry said, adding that the substance was harmless to both people and the natural environment and would dissolve in a few hours.

Albert Batalla, the mayor of Seu d’Urgell, one of the Spanish towns on the river’s banks, confirmed the information in a statement, explaining that the dye was being used to investigate a water bottling plant. "It is a harmless, non-toxic and bio-degradable dye that has been used for a water research,’’ he wrote.

The plant was reportedly linked to a gastroenteritis outbreak in Catalonia last year that left thousands of people sick after they drank from contaminated office water coolers.

Arinsal gone green ?? A post shared by Penelope Rochford (@peneloperoch) on Mar 2, 2017 at 5:06am PST

Images of the river have caused consternation on social media, where photos of the vivid green water have been posted by residents.

Indeed, Chicago might be the only place where a river’s suddenly turning bright green might not greeted with alarm by residents; the city has an annual tradition of dying the Chicago River green the Saturday before St. Patrick’s Day, which is in two weeks.