Trump tweets Schumer, Putin photo, calls for investigation
Trump tweets Schumer, Putin photo, calls for investigation
Trump tweets Schumer, Putin photo, calls for investigation Updated 2247 GMT (0647 HKT) March 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (16 Videos) Story highlights Schumer responded the meeting 'took place in '03 in full view of press & public under oath' It's not the first time Trump's team has used the photo on Twitter President Donald Trump slammed Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer in a tweet Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin and presenting a photo of the two leaders as evidence. We should start an immediate investigation into @SenSchumer and his ties to Russia and Putin. A total hypocrite! pic.twitter.com/Ik3yqjHzsA Happily talk re: my contact w Mr. Putin & his associates, took place in '03 in full view of press & public under oath. Would you &your team? https://t.co/yXgw3U8tmQ The bottom line is we have an obligation to get to the truth. We must evaluate the scope of Russia's interference in our election. . @SenSchumer - do it over a donut and coffee. pic.twitter.com/BvnYukwtXs I hereby demand a second investigation, after Schumer, of Pelosi for her close ties to Russia, and lying about it. https://t.co/qCDljfF3wN

Story highlights Schumer responded the meeting 'took place in '03 in full view of press & public under oath'

It's not the first time Trump's team has used the photo on Twitter

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump slammed Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer in a tweet Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin and presenting a photo of the two leaders as evidence.

Trump posted a photo of Schumer and Putin in New York smiling while eating donuts and coffee and wrote: "We should start an immediate investigation into @SenSchumer and his ties to Russia and Putin. A total hypocrite!"

We should start an immediate investigation into @SenSchumer and his ties to Russia and Putin. A total hypocrite! pic.twitter.com/Ik3yqjHzsA — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 3, 2017

The photo was taken during Putin's visit to a Lukoil gas station in Manhattan in 2003. Lukoil is one of the largest oil companies in Russia. Schumer responded on Twitter, "Happily talk re: my contact w Mr. Putin & his associates, took place in '03 in full view of press & public under oath. Would you &your team?"

Happily talk re: my contact w Mr. Putin & his associates, took place in '03 in full view of press & public under oath. Would you &your team? https://t.co/yXgw3U8tmQ — Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) March 3, 2017

It's not the first time Trump's team posted the photo. On Thursday, White House social media director Dan Scavino used it in response to a tweet by Schumer calling for an evaluation of Russia's interference in the US election.

Schumer has not been accused of misconduct with the Russian government.