Chattanooga Singer Johnny Balik Delivers A Refreshing Introduction With "I Need It"
Chattanooga Singer Johnny Balik Delivers A Refreshing Introduction With "I Need It"
Johnny Balik is a singer and songwriter hailing from Chattanooga, Tennessee. Over the last couple of years, the newcomer has been releasing songs of his own on Soundcloud and winning over followers online. However, it seems one real life interaction at a cafe may have helped bring Balik's latest single "I Need It" into existence. Chance The Rapper 's manager, Pat The Manager, admits that they were first introduced to Balik and his talent when a friend recorded a video of him singing and playing his guitar in a cafe. Fast forward to present day, and Balik has teamed up with Peter Cottontale of The Social Experiment for his soulful new single "I Need It." "We cut the record in Chicago last Summer. We had been working all night when Peter came in and sat at the piano while I freestyled," Balik explains. "We went back into the studio and sampled the session. Peter created a beat and within 20 minutes the track came together." Listen to "I Need It," and watch an intimate performance of Johnny's new record below.

Johnny Balik is a singer and songwriter hailing from Chattanooga, Tennessee. Over the last couple of years, the newcomer has been releasing songs of his own on Soundcloud and winning over followers online. However, it seems one real life interaction at a cafe may have helped bring Balik's latest single "I Need It" into existence.

Chance The Rapper's manager, Pat The Manager, admits that they were first introduced to Balik and his talent when a friend recorded a video of him singing and playing his guitar in a cafe. Fast forward to present day, and Balik has teamed up with Peter Cottontale of The Social Experiment for his soulful new single "I Need It."

"We cut the record in Chicago last Summer. We had been working all night when Peter came in and sat at the piano while I freestyled," Balik explains. "We went back into the studio and sampled the session. Peter created a beat and within 20 minutes the track came together."

Listen to "I Need It," and watch an intimate performance of Johnny's new record below.