Bonds See Gloom Where Stocks See Zoom
Bonds See Gloom Where Stocks See Zoom
Bonds See Gloom Where Stocks See Zoom   Markets  Lisa Abramowicz is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering the debt markets. She has written about debt markets for Bloomberg News since 2010.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  Bond traders walk around with dark clouds over their heads. They see doom when stockbrokers see opportunity. When equity investors are throwing a party, debt investors sit in the corner and nurse some seltzer, waiting for everyone else to suffer a hangover. And so it goes now. While stock investors show no fear of another Federal Reserve rate increase, bond investors are starting to worry. Their angst is cropping up in the form of a flatter yield curve, which typically signifies that traders are pricing in slower growth in the years ahead. In fact, one of the most important yield curves, the gap between five-year and 30-year Treasury rates, has narrowed to almost the flattest since 2007. This anticipation of lower growth contrasts profoundly with the dominant narrative that's been fueling riskier bond and stock values -- that the U.S. economy is accelerating and poised for an era of expansion and prosperity. The Fed has bought in. On Friday, Chair Janet Yellen all-but confirmed that the central bank will raise interest rates this month, saying such a move would "likely be appropriate" if employment and inflation continue to meet policy makers' expectations. Yellen's comments, delivered at a lunch in Chicago, simply ratified what debt markets had already rushed to price in earlier in the week. Bond investors now widely expect near-term borrowing costs to rise in short order. Yields on two-year Treasuries are at about their highest levels since 2009. This comes in response to falling unemployment levels and significantly improved consumer sentiment. But while traders are pricing in a near-term tightening in credit conditions, they seem increasingly less optimistic about the longer term. After all, that proverbial party is coming to a close and the Fed is taking away the punch bowl. It's trying to do it slowly, so it doesn't derail the economy, but at some point that reality is going to sink in, and investors are going to question the value of assets that have been inflated by years of stimulus. In other words, without the punch bowl, it's hard to see how junk bonds and stocks are going to continue to rally without additional help. While that assistance may come from President Donald Trump's $1 trillion infrastructure spending program, it's still only conceptual, and that's putting it charitably given the political and logistical challenges. U.S. stock markets are having none of that pessimism. They reached new highs this week and stayed near there, even as it became clear that the Fed is all but certain to raise rates this month. Investors who are plowing into riskier securities ought to pay heed to the dour debt party poopers crowded into the corner. All parties come to an end, and sometimes the hangover is non-negotiable. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at labramowicz@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at dniemi1@bloomberg.net Taxing Times Star-Crossed  Trump's Boeing Love Creates Contradictions   Industrials  Consol's Better Bet Consolation  Consol Mines the Trump Rally to Exit Coal   Energy  Big Hit Calm Down  Someone Tell WPP Animal Spirits are Back   Media  Exchange Mergers  LSE on the Rebound   Finance  Amount of potential food buyout targets is nearly Sausage Roll-Up  Europe's Food Buyout Boom Can Finally Start   Consumer  Value of shares sold Bailing Out  Buyout Firms Head for the Exit   Deals  Number of listed energy companies in India bigger gorillas  India's PetroChina Envy Has Only One Problem   Energy  PropertyGuru's 2015 fundraising Start me up  Profit Is for Gurus   Tech  Learning Curve best in class  China's Private Schools Get a Gold Star   Deals  Combo Boost Gimme Shelter  Roche's New Drugs May Protect its Old Ones   Health  Out of Style Surf's Up  The Case For A Hollister Spinoff   Consumer  What the Latest Gas Numbers Were Gloves Come Off  Gas Bulls: Have You Looked Outside?   Energy  Honeywell's New Favorite Word Tipping Point  Honeywell's Balancing Act   Industrials  Sports Direct shares fall over the last 12 months Agent Provocateur  The Tracksuit Billionaire's Lingerie Bet   Consumer  Trump Bump It's Complicated  Trump Bump Is No Stump Jump   Markets  Stock's gain since February 2016 Franco-Swiss Alliance  A Cement Deal Starts to Set   Industrials  What Exxon Plans to Spend on Shale This Year Shale Whale  Exxon Will Remake Shale Or Shale Will Remake Exxon   Energy  Stinging Discounts Irresistible Force  The Asset-Management Pressure Cooker   Finance  Losing Its Fizz Slash and Brew  Megabrew Needs Megavolumes   Consumer  Speed Race Hit a six  Bet Bigger, Ambani   Tech  Gilts Take an Unexpected Low Road Curiously Strong  Gilts Are Due an Unfriending   Markets  Gearing Down? Skin deep  China's Great Balance Sheet Play   Markets  Not Keeping Pace Follow the Leader  Snapchat's IPO Aids Other Overheated Startups   Tech  Tasty Returns Better Late Than Never  McDonald's Is Smart to Copy Starbucks   Consumer

Bond traders walk around with dark clouds over their heads.



They see doom when stockbrokers see opportunity. When equity investors are throwing a party, debt investors sit in the corner and nurse some seltzer, waiting for everyone else to suffer a hangover.



And so it goes now. While stock investors show no fear of another Federal Reserve rate increase, bond investors are starting to worry. Their angst is cropping up in the form of a flatter yield curve, which typically signifies that traders are pricing in slower growth in the years ahead.



In fact, one of the most important yield curves, the gap between five-year and 30-year Treasury rates, has narrowed to almost the flattest since 2007.

This anticipation of lower growth contrasts profoundly with the dominant narrative that's been fueling riskier bond and stock values -- that the U.S. economy is accelerating and poised for an era of expansion and prosperity.



The Fed has bought in. On Friday, Chair Janet Yellen all-but confirmed that the central bank will raise interest rates this month, saying such a move would "likely be appropriate" if employment and inflation continue to meet policy makers' expectations.



Yellen's comments, delivered at a lunch in Chicago, simply ratified what debt markets had already rushed to price in earlier in the week. Bond investors now widely expect near-term borrowing costs to rise in short order. Yields on two-year Treasuries are at about their highest levels since 2009. This comes in response to falling unemployment levels and significantly improved consumer sentiment.

Big Shift Traders have substantially boosted their expectations for a March Fed rate hike Source: Bloomberg

But while traders are pricing in a near-term tightening in credit conditions, they seem increasingly less optimistic about the longer term.

Slowing Down Debt traders are pricing in higher short-term yields but lower long-term rates Source: Bloomberg

After all, that proverbial party is coming to a close and the Fed is taking away the punch bowl. It's trying to do it slowly, so it doesn't derail the economy, but at some point that reality is going to sink in, and investors are going to question the value of assets that have been inflated by years of stimulus.



In other words, without the punch bowl, it's hard to see how junk bonds and stocks are going to continue to rally without additional help. While that assistance may come from President Donald Trump's $1 trillion infrastructure spending program, it's still only conceptual, and that's putting it charitably given the political and logistical challenges.

Losing Luster Investors are earning the least from the S&P 500 relative to 30-year bonds in years Source: Bloomberg

U.S. stock markets are having none of that pessimism. They reached new highs this week and stayed near there, even as it became clear that the Fed is all but certain to raise rates this month.



Investors who are plowing into riskier securities ought to pay heed to the dour debt party poopers crowded into the corner. All parties come to an end, and sometimes the hangover is non-negotiable.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Lisa Abramowicz in New York at labramowicz@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Daniel Niemi at dniemi1@bloomberg.net