Economics Are Transitioning America From Coal To Clean
Economics Are Transitioning America From Coal To Clean
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Energy Innovation: Policy and Technology       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. There is considerable hullabaloo about the future of coal in America: Can it be resuscitated by slashing environmental protections, per the Trump Administration, or is it on a secular decline due to economics and other forces? And what energy policy strategies make sense for this changing environment? The Hunter Power plant operated by PacifiCorp, outside Castle Dale, Utah. (Photo by George Frey/Getty Images The short answer to the future of coal is that it has entered irreversible decline. The long answer has four parts: In many regions of the U.S., it is no longer cost-effective to build a new coal-fired power plant.  Mississippi’s Kemper County carbon-capturing coal plant was scheduled to cost $3 billion and go online by 2014, but still remains non-operational and is approaching $7 billion in total cost. Increasingly, building a new solar or wind farm is an existing coal plant. The Navajo Generation Station, Western America’s largest coal plant, is closing in 2019 – decades earlier than expected as utilities recognize adding cheaper renewables (as well as gas and efficiency) would save consumers money. As a consequence of these economics, coal will decline as a share of electricity production regardless of policy, but good policy will yield reductions much more quickly. We have already met four-fifths of the Clean Power Plan (CPP) emissions reduction requirements for 2030—but plenty of America’s coal plants are still steaming away. Highly focused, carefully chosen venues for intervention still create terrific opportunities to accelerate the clean energy transition, despite the coal-at-any-cost atmosphere in Washington. What’s really causing coal’s decline?  Is it driven by economics, or policy?  Is coal being replaced by natural gas, or wind and solar, or energy efficiency?  The default answer in the U.S. press is often that natural gas is simply cheaper than coal.  This view has some legitimacy, but does not tell the full story. First, U.S. electricity use has been flat for the last 11 years, even as GDP has grown 17%.  This change, driven by energy efficiency and structural changes in the economy, is displacing coal almost as quickly as natural gas.  Add wind and solar, whose capacity additions have been fiercely outpacing coal for the past several years, and clean energy gets nearly 60% of the credit. The upshot is that coal is facing a formidable group of competitors, and losing to them all, mostly due to sheer economics: Efficiency, solar, wind, and natural gas are all cheaper on the margin than coal in many parts of the U.S.  Some of this transition was driven by environmental protections, or their anticipation, but much is due to the age of coal plants, which in America now average more than 43 years old.  Old plants require more maintenance, more new equipment, and run at lower efficiencies, consuming more fuel.  Coal is, fundamentally, a 1970s energy strategy. But what’s really fascinating about this transition is that the price curves of solar and wind farms have begun dropping below just the operating costs of old coal. In Colorado new wind could cost-effectively replace 6,000 gigawatt-hours of existing coal . Recent power auctions have found new solar power plants bidding at 2.5-3.5 cents per kilowatt-hour (kWh).  The operating costs of coal, even if building the plant were free, are now about 3.7 cents per kilowatt-hour . Levelized power purchase agreement price of wind projects, compared to 2015 marginal cost of coal. (Credit: The Department of Energy's "2015 Wind Technologies Market Report". Illustration by Energy Innovation.) Levelized power purchase agreement price of solar projects, compared to 2015 marginal cost of coal. (Credit: Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory's "Utility-Scale Solar 2015". Illustration by Energy Innovation) Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

There is considerable hullabaloo about the future of coal in America: Can it be resuscitated by slashing environmental protections, per the Trump Administration, or is it on a secular decline due to economics and other forces? And what energy policy strategies make sense for this changing environment?

The short answer to the future of coal is that it has entered irreversible decline. The long answer has four parts:

In many regions of the U.S., it is no longer cost-effective to build a new coal-fired power plant. Mississippi’s Kemper County carbon-capturing coal plant was scheduled to cost $3 billion and go online by 2014, but still remains non-operational and is approaching $7 billion in total cost.

Increasingly, building a new solar or wind farm is cheaper than just operating an existing coal plant. The Navajo Generation Station, Western America’s largest coal plant, is closing in 2019 – decades earlier than expected as utilities recognize adding cheaper renewables (as well as gas and efficiency) would save consumers money.

As a consequence of these economics, coal will decline as a share of electricity production regardless of policy, but good policy will yield reductions much more quickly. We have already met four-fifths of the Clean Power Plan (CPP) emissions reduction requirements for 2030—but plenty of America’s coal plants are still steaming away.

Highly focused, carefully chosen venues for intervention still create terrific opportunities to accelerate the clean energy transition, despite the coal-at-any-cost atmosphere in Washington.

Considering The Economic Factors Behind Coal's Decline

What’s really causing coal’s decline? Is it driven by economics, or policy? Is coal being replaced by natural gas, or wind and solar, or energy efficiency? The default answer in the U.S. press is often that natural gas is simply cheaper than coal. This view has some legitimacy, but does not tell the full story.

First, U.S. electricity use has been flat for the last 11 years, even as GDP has grown 17%. This change, driven by energy efficiency and structural changes in the economy, is displacing coal almost as quickly as natural gas. Add wind and solar, whose capacity additions have been fiercely outpacing coal for the past several years, and clean energy gets nearly 60% of the credit.

The upshot is that coal is facing a formidable group of competitors, and losing to them all, mostly due to sheer economics: Efficiency, solar, wind, and natural gas are all cheaper on the margin than coal in many parts of the U.S. Some of this transition was driven by environmental protections, or their anticipation, but much is due to the age of coal plants, which in America now average more than 43 years old. Old plants require more maintenance, more new equipment, and run at lower efficiencies, consuming more fuel. Coal is, fundamentally, a 1970s energy strategy.

But what’s really fascinating about this transition is that the price curves of brand new solar and wind farms have begun dropping below just the operating costs of old coal. In Colorado new wind could cost-effectively replace 6,000 gigawatt-hours of existing coal. Recent power auctions have found new solar power plants bidding at 2.5-3.5 cents per kilowatt-hour (kWh). The operating costs of coal, even if building the plant were free, are now about 3.7 cents per kilowatt-hour.