Hunter Biden’s Wife Says He Was Unfaithful and Blew Money on Drugs and Prostitutes
Hunter Biden’s Wife Says He Was Unfaithful and Blew Money on Drugs and Prostitutes
The Hunter Biden saga takes another bizarre turn. We reported yesterday that Hunter, the son of former vice president Joe Biden, is now in a romantic relationship with his former sister-in-law, Hallie. Hallie was married to Joe’s other son, Beau, who passed away after a battle with brain cancer in 2015. Today, news surfaced that Hunter’s current wife—from whom he has separated—accused Hunter of using drugs and spending money on prostitutes in divorce papers filed in 2016, according to . Hunter, 47, and his estranged wife, Kathleen, have three children together. They filed to end their marriage in December, though they have been separated since July 2015—a month or two after Beau passed away. Related Beau Biden's Widow Is Now Dating Her Married Brother-in-Law, and Joe Is Cool With It Joe Biden's Son Was Booted From the Navy for Being Coked Out The court filings reveal Kathleen told Hunter to leave “due to his conduct the night before.” Though his exact conduct was not specified, Kathleen said it “creates situations that are unsafe or traumatic for the parties’ children.” Court papers also reveal that Hunter allegedly spent $122,000 over two months, and as a result had to lower his payments to Kathleen and their children. “Mr. Biden has created financial concerns for the family by spending extravagantly on his own interests (including drugs, alcohol, prostitutes, strip clubs and gifts for women with whom he has sexual relations), while leaving the family with no funds to pay legitimate bills,” the filing reads. Hunter was reportedly discharged from the Navy Reserves in 2014 after testing positive for cocaine. A hearing is scheduled for the pending divorce later this month.

The Hunter Biden saga takes another bizarre turn. We reported yesterday that Hunter, the son of former vice president Joe Biden, is now in a romantic relationship with his former sister-in-law, Hallie. Hallie was married to Joe’s other son, Beau, who passed away after a battle with brain cancer in 2015.

Today, news surfaced that Hunter’s current wife—from whom he has separated—accused Hunter of using drugs and spending money on prostitutes in divorce papers filed in 2016, according to New York Daily News.

Hunter, 47, and his estranged wife, Kathleen, have three children together. They filed to end their marriage in December, though they have been separated since July 2015—a month or two after Beau passed away.

The court filings reveal Kathleen told Hunter to leave “due to his conduct the night before.” Though his exact conduct was not specified, Kathleen said it “creates situations that are unsafe or traumatic for the parties’ children.”

Court papers also reveal that Hunter allegedly spent $122,000 over two months, and as a result had to lower his payments to Kathleen and their children.

“Mr. Biden has created financial concerns for the family by spending extravagantly on his own interests (including drugs, alcohol, prostitutes, strip clubs and gifts for women with whom he has sexual relations), while leaving the family with no funds to pay legitimate bills,” the filing reads.

Hunter was reportedly discharged from the Navy Reserves in 2014 after testing positive for cocaine.

A hearing is scheduled for the pending divorce later this month.