Thirsty T-Mobile is giving out free iPhone 7s to join its network
Thirsty T-Mobile is giving out free iPhone 7s to join its network
T-Mobile is, if nothing else, super thirsty. From one-upping Verizon's unlimited data plan via tweetstorm from CEO John Legere to its BDSM-tinged, slightly NSFW Super Bowl Twitter feud with, again, Verizon, there's not much the self-proclaimed "Un-carrier" won't do to stir up social attention. T-Mobile's latest move isn't as controversial as some of its other recent promotions — but it is a bold, attractive offer for anyone looking for a free iPhone. The network will give anyone who brings their number from another carrier to the T-Mobile ONE plan an iPhone 7, free of charge, or a 7 Plus for $100. SEE ALSO: Verizon has lost its one big advantage in the wireless wars The deal has more than one catch, though — free iPhone 7s are only available with the trade-in of another eligible device. That list is fairly limited: Only iPhones 6 and up and Samsung Galaxy 7 and 7 Edge make the cut. It's also only available at T-Mobile stores with instant trade-in service. That said, you can opt-in for plans with up to 12 lines, so you could conceivably wind up with a dozen free iPhone 7s for your abnormally large family. The offer is available now through March 16, so if you're trying to get all those free phones, round up the squad quickly. This is a good deal if you're ready for a new network with a relatively new phone to burn, but it might not be the best idea to pick up a brand new iPhone 7. It's a great phone , sure — but you might just be feeling some buyer's remorse in the very near future with the release of the iPhone 8 and everything that may or may not come along with it. BONUS: A new way to take selfies — and six other features the iPhone 8 might have

T-Mobile is, if nothing else, super thirsty. From one-upping Verizon's unlimited data plan via tweetstorm from CEO John Legere to its BDSM-tinged, slightly NSFW Super Bowl Twitter feud with, again, Verizon, there's not much the self-proclaimed "Un-carrier" won't do to stir up social attention.

T-Mobile's latest move isn't as controversial as some of its other recent promotions — but it is a bold, attractive offer for anyone looking for a free iPhone. The network will give anyone who brings their number from another carrier to the T-Mobile ONE plan an iPhone 7, free of charge, or a 7 Plus for $100.

SEE ALSO: Verizon has lost its one big advantage in the wireless wars

The deal has more than one catch, though — free iPhone 7s are only available with the trade-in of another eligible device. That list is fairly limited: Only iPhones 6 and up and Samsung Galaxy 7 and 7 Edge make the cut. It's also only available at T-Mobile stores with instant trade-in service.

That said, you can opt-in for plans with up to 12 lines, so you could conceivably wind up with a dozen free iPhone 7s for your abnormally large family. The offer is available now through March 16, so if you're trying to get all those free phones, round up the squad quickly.

This is a good deal if you're ready for a new network with a relatively new phone to burn, but it might not be the best idea to pick up a brand new iPhone 7. It's a great phone, sure — but you might just be feeling some buyer's remorse in the very near future with the release of the iPhone 8 and everything that may or may not come along with it.