ISIS Has Seen Its Income More Than Halved Since 2014 [Infographic]
ISIS Has Seen Its Income More Than Halved Since 2014 [Infographic]
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Niall McCarthy       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. ISIS militants have suffered a string of defeats on the ground in Iraq, losing an estimated 62 percent of the territory they held in the country in August 2014. Those setbacks have also seriously dented the group's business model and finances. According to an ICSR analysis , the terrorist group's income has more than halved since 2014. In the wake of its surprise assault and massive territorial gains in Iraq in 2014, ISIS was able to extort an estimated $1 billion through looting, confiscation and fines. It also made about $450 million from oil and another $400 million through taxes and fees. All in all, the group's income that year was estimated at just under $2 billion. * After heavy fighting, Iraqi government forces managed to liberate the eastern half of Mosul last month. This week, they launched an offensive to retake the western part of the city, making steady initial progress, according to reports. By the end of 2016, ISIS saw its income flow drop more than 50 percent to a maximum of $870 million. Unsurprisingly, money generated through lootings and confiscations diminished dramatically, as did the group's oil revenue. Income from taxes and fees fell 50 percent from 2015, though it still matched the amount raised in 2014. Smoke billows in the background as Iraqi forces, supported by the Hashed al-Shaabi (Popular Mobilisation) paramilitaries, advance near the village of Husseinyah, south of Mosul on February 20, 2017, during the offensive to retake the western side of Mosul. ( AHMAD AL-RUBAYE/AFP/Getty Images)  Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

ISIS militants have suffered a string of defeats on the ground in Iraq, losing an estimated 62 percent of the territory they held in the country in August 2014. Those setbacks have also seriously dented the group's business model and finances. According to an ICSR analysis, the terrorist group's income has more than halved since 2014. In the wake of its surprise assault and massive territorial gains in Iraq in 2014, ISIS was able to extort an estimated $1 billion through looting, confiscation and fines. It also made about $450 million from oil and another $400 million through taxes and fees. All in all, the group's income that year was estimated at just under $2 billion.

*Click below to enlarge (charted by Statista)

After heavy fighting, Iraqi government forces managed to liberate the eastern half of Mosul last month. This week, they launched an offensive to retake the western part of the city, making steady initial progress, according to reports. By the end of 2016, ISIS saw its income flow drop more than 50 percent to a maximum of $870 million. Unsurprisingly, money generated through lootings and confiscations diminished dramatically, as did the group's oil revenue. Income from taxes and fees fell 50 percent from 2015, though it still matched the amount raised in 2014.