Latin Connection Podcast: Yuridia Talks Dream Collabs, U.S. Tour & More
Latin Connection Podcast: Yuridia Talks Dream Collabs, U.S. Tour & More 
Latin Connection Podcast: Yuridia Talks Dream Collabs, U.S. Tour & More  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  "I never thought I would have this organized tour in the U.S," Yuridia Â tells 's Latin Connection Podcast ahead of her U.S. tour which kicks off Friday (March 3)Â in Chicago.Â But it's happening. The Mexican singer, known for songs about heartbreak like "Ya es muy tarde" and "Cobarde," is kicking off her first U.S. tour following the release of her latest album titled, -- which peaked at No. 7 on 's Top Latin Albums .  We're interviewing Yuridia in Los Angeles, a special city for the singer who came to this city to audition for a reality, singing competition show in 2005. "I remember coming here all the way from Arizona with my dad and I stayed with an aunt and I remember thinking 'I can't believe I'm in L.A.' Then I went to the audition and I made it and it changed my life completely. So I do have a special connection with L.A."  When it comes to collabs, Yuridia doesn't do much and not because she doesn't want to but because she considers herself a shy person. "I don't ask people because I feel that they're going to turn me down." And if she could collaborate with anyone in the future it would be: Shakira . Shakira, if you're listening, give YuridiaÂ a call!Â Below, check out Yuridia's interview on the Latin Connection Podcast:Â March 3 - Chicago, Illinois March 4 - Milwaukee, Wisconsin March 5 - Houston, Texas March 9 - San Antonio, Texas March 10 - McAllen, Texas March 11 - Laredo, Texas March 31 - El Paso, Texas April 1 - Odessa/Midland, Texas April 2 - Dallas, Texas April 6 - Riverside, California April - Los Angeles, California April 8 - Sacramento, California April 9 - San Diego, California  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

"I never thought I would have this organized tour in the U.S," YuridiaÂ tells Billboard's Latin Connection Podcast ahead of her U.S. tour which kicks off Friday (March 3)Â in Chicago.Â But it's happening.

The Mexican singer, known for songs about heartbreak like "Ya es muy tarde" and "Cobarde," is kicking off her first U.S. tour following the release of her latest album titled, 6 -- which peaked at No. 7 on Billboard's Top Latin Albums.

We're interviewing Yuridia in Los Angeles, a special city for the singer who came to this city to audition for a reality, singing competition show in 2005. "I remember coming here all the way from Arizona with my dad and I stayed with an aunt and I remember thinking 'I can't believe I'm in L.A.' Then I went to the audition and I made it and it changed my life completely. So I do have a special connection with L.A."

When it comes to collabs, Yuridia doesn't do much and not because she doesn't want to but because she considers herself a shy person. "I don't ask people because I feel that they're going to turn me down." And if she could collaborate with anyone in the future it would be: Shakira.

Shakira, if you're listening, give YuridiaÂ a call!Â

Below, check out Yuridia's interview on the Latin Connection Podcast:Â