Cox BusinessVoice: 5 Considerations Before Ordering WiFi For Your Business
Cox BusinessVoice: 5 Considerations Before Ordering WiFi For Your Business
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Cox Business       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Providing fast and reliable WiFi may be one of the most important technology investments you will make for your business. However; before ordering WiFi service, you must first assess how it will be used. Having an idea of what your company’s daily WiFi activity will look like, and understanding the goals you aim to achieve with WiFi, will help narrow down the possible solutions. Start by getting answers to these questions: Will WiFi be used for both employees and customers? Will your WiFi need to support activity such as video conferencing and live streaming? If you are providing WiFi for your customers, how will your customers use it and access it? Do you want your customers to have enough bandwidth to be able to watch videos or just enough access to check emails? Will the WiFi be private or public? Will you be using your WiFi to collect customer information to help with marketing efforts and business decisions? Think about the structure of your business and what you intend to achieve through adding business WiFi. This will help make the search much easier. Security considerations are essential when choosing WiFi for your business, as large amounts of proprietary information will pass through your network each day. As part of your business plan, your company should have an IT security policy with clear protocols established. Ensuring your WiFi falls in line with these protocols will help you narrow down your search for a solution. If you plan to provide WiFi for customers and visitors as well as employees, you’ll need to ensure your Internet comes with guest usage security features and settings so that they can use your Internet without the risk of someone accessing valuable company information. When searching for WiFi options, it's easy to locate a solution that fits your business needs now. But what happens when your business grows and you need to hire more people and increase bandwidth? Can that provider scale to meet your needs. It's imperative that you consider WiFi options that will scale with your business. As a customer, have you ever seen free WiFi advertised at a business, only to find that the connection is unusually slow? The experience can be so frustrating for customers the business might as well have never offered free WiFi at all For this reason, having the right equipment for your business is critical. Low-quality hardware or limited bandwidth can cause your free WiFi offering to backfire. Working with a trusted Internet Service Provider will ensure that you have the equipment, bandwidth, and support you need. WiFi is no longer seen as a helpful addition to the IT needs of your company but as a necessity to achieve your business goals. Speed, security, and reliability are a given, but beyond that, choosing the right business WiFi should not be taken lightly. Take the time to first assess your wireless needs. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Providing fast and reliable WiFi may be one of the most important technology investments you will make for your business.

However; before ordering WiFi service, you must first assess how it will be used. Having an idea of what your company’s daily WiFi activity will look like, and understanding the goals you aim to achieve with WiFi, will help narrow down the possible solutions.

How Will WiFi Be Used

Start by getting answers to these questions:

Will WiFi be used for both employees and customers?

Will your WiFi need to support activity such as video conferencing and live streaming?

If you are providing WiFi for your customers, how will your customers use it and access it?

Do you want your customers to have enough bandwidth to be able to watch videos or just enough access to check emails?

Will the WiFi be private or public?

Will you be using your WiFi to collect customer information to help with marketing efforts and business decisions?

Think about the structure of your business and what you intend to achieve through adding business WiFi. This will help make the search much easier.

Is the WiFi You’re Considering Secure?

Security considerations are essential when choosing WiFi for your business, as large amounts of proprietary information will pass through your network each day.

As part of your business plan, your company should have an IT security policy with clear protocols established. Ensuring your WiFi falls in line with these protocols will help you narrow down your search for a solution.

With the growth of the mobile workforce, many businesses allow employees and contractors to use their own devices to access business-related information. To ensure your employees’ personal devices are protected, your company will need a BYOD policy factored in.

If you plan to provide WiFi for customers and visitors as well as employees, you’ll need to ensure your Internet comes with guest usage security features and settings so that they can use your Internet without the risk of someone accessing valuable company information.

Is the WiFi for Your Business Scalable?

When searching for WiFi options, it's easy to locate a solution that fits your business needs now. But what happens when your business grows and you need to hire more people and increase bandwidth? Can that provider scale to meet your needs. It's imperative that you consider WiFi options that will scale with your business.

What equipment will you need?

As a customer, have you ever seen free WiFi advertised at a business, only to find that the connection is unusually slow? The experience can be so frustrating for customers the business might as well have never offered free WiFi at all

For this reason, having the right equipment for your business is critical. Low-quality hardware or limited bandwidth can cause your free WiFi offering to backfire. Working with a trusted Internet Service Provider will ensure that you have the equipment, bandwidth, and support you need.

What is Your Budget?

People often ask how much it costs to set up business WiFi, but unfortunately, there isn’t one set answer. It all depends on your objectives. However, before searching for a solution that’s right for you, put a budget together to help narrow down your search.

Summary

WiFi is no longer seen as a helpful addition to the IT needs of your company but as a necessity to achieve your business goals. Speed, security, and reliability are a given, but beyond that, choosing the right business WiFi should not be taken lightly. Take the time to first assess your wireless needs.