Donald Trump runs into Twitter trouble with repeated spelling errors as his attempt to turn heat on Democrats goes awry
Donald Trump runs into Twitter trouble with repeated spelling errors as his attempt to turn heat on Democrats goes awry
onald Trump’s attempt to turn the tables on the Democrats over the controversy of Russian contacts with senior members of his campaign team and cabinet appointees went seriously wrong after it took the US president three attempts to spell "hereby" correctly. A  photograph of Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, meeting Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador, after denying she had done so, should have been an open goal for Mr Trump. With pictures also emerging of Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer sharing doughnuts with Vladimir Putin, Mr Trump inevitably turned to his weapon of choice, Twitter. President Trump just had his very own 'Is our children learning?' moment https://t.co/Oh6FHGrV0H  pic.twitter.com/yZQ78pv6uW hat is where things started to go wrong. First time round he tweeted “I hear by demand a second investigation, after Schumer, of Pelosi for her close ties to Russia, and lying about it." He then had another go, correcting it to “hearby”. It was a case of third time lucky and the final version was indeed spelled correctly. The timing was particularly unfortunate as it was a day in which Mr Trump visited Saint Andrew Catholic School in Orlando, Florida, to highlight his education policy. Social media was pretty unforgiving, expecting rather more from a graduate of The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. I hereby declare that Donald Trump is going to take some spelling lessons. ome suggested the children who Mr Trump saw may have had fewer difficulties spelling hereby than he had done. It was far from the first time that Mr Trump has been let down by his spelling on Twitter. In mid December a Twitter attack on China was rather undermined by his spelling of unprecedented as “unpresidented.” Trump-"How do I spell it?" DeVos-"Hear by" Trump-"Wrong!" DeVos-"Try Hearby" Trump-"Wrong!!" DeVos-"Try.." Trump-"Forget it I'll text Palin" pic.twitter.com/2MxTwqnala hat error was corrected after 87 minutes. ortunately for Mr Trump, his tweet about fixing the American education system following his school visit was spelled impeccably.

Donald Trump’s attempt to turn the tables on the Democrats over the controversy of Russian contacts with senior members of his campaign team and cabinet appointees went seriously wrong after it took the US president three attempts to spell "hereby" correctly.

A photograph of Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, meeting Sergey Kislyak, the Russian ambassador, after denying she had done so, should have been an open goal for Mr Trump.

With pictures also emerging of Democratic Senate leader Chuck Schumer sharing doughnuts with Vladimir Putin, Mr Trump inevitably turned to his weapon of choice, Twitter.