Nigel Farage 'knighted' by six-year-old girl who then asks if he hates foreigners
Nigel Farage 'knighted' by six-year-old girl who then asks if he hates foreigners
Popular videos    Riz Ahmed warns Parliament about lack of diversity in TV      The Walking Dead season 7 episode 12: What to expect from 'Say Yes'      Bush was a fan of Kimmel's Trump-bashing Oscars monologue      25 May attacks on Scottish Independence that could be about Brexit   Nigel Farage has been accused of “hating foreigners” by a six-year-old girl dressed as the Queen during a television interview with Russia Today. In a bizarre clip, the former Ukip leader, who was reported earlier in the week to be angry that he had been denied a knighthood, kneels down in front of the child, who then pretends to knight him with a toy sword. At the end of an interview about Ukip’s prospects, Russia Today presenter Sam Delaney says “bring in Her Majesty, it’s time to knight Nigel Farage”, before telling the Ukip MEP to “kneel there”.   Nigel Farage says he 'doesn't particularly want' a knighthood Mr Farage, doing as instructed, begs: “Don’t hurt me”. He then thanks the child. “You are now Sir Nigel Farage”, mocks Mr Delaney. “We’re also making you honorary British ambassador to America and honorary MP for South Thanet because they didn’t elect you for real. So arise Sir Nigel.” Mr Farage says he is “honoured”. The stunt takes a strange twist when, at the end of the staged ceremony, the young girl turns to the Ukip politician and says: “My mummy says you hate foreigners". An embarrassed Mr Farage replies:  “Did she? I don’t think that’s quite right.” “The Queen has to be non-political”, he retorts. Key Faces of UKIP               Key Faces of UKIP       Nigel Farage   Getty        United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) Migration spokesman Steven Woolfe addresses supporters and media personnel in central London   Getty        Robert Kilroy-Silk, former television presenter and newly elected member of the European Parliament for the UK Independence Party (UKIP), shows a placard against the European Constitution in front of the Houses of Parliament   Getty        Mark Reckless, Director of Policy Development addresses party members during the UK Independence Party annual conference at Doncaster Racecourse   Getty        Gerard Batten MEP poses with protesters outside parliament   Creative Commons        Diane James gives an address at the UKIP Autumn Conference in Bournemouth   Getty        Douglas Carswell MP speaks to party members and supporters during the UK Independence Party annual conference   Getty        Suzanne Evans, Deputy Party Chairman of UK Independence Party (UKIP) speaks during the launch of UKIP's election manifesto   Getty        Peter Whittle, the UK Independence Party Member of the London Assembly, is interviewed in central London   Getty        MEP Mike Hookem during a visit to Concept Metal Products & Co Ltd   Getty        Paul Nuttall, Deputy Leader of the UK Independence Party speaks at a Say NO, Believe in Britain debate at Carn Brea Leisure Centre in Pool near Redruthon   Getty  Mr Delaney, meanwhile, quickly tried to dismiss the comment, saying: “No no, little girl, no no no. You’re not supposed to say that. That’s very naughty.” The incident comes days after the former Ukip leader attacked his party’s only MP, Douglas Carswell, and called for him to thrown out. Writing in The Daily Telegraph, Mr Farage said: “As a party, how can we let a man represent us in the House of Commons who actively and transparently seeks to damage us? “I think there is little future for Ukip with him staying inside this party. The time for him to go is now.” The row is the latest in a series of spats between the two men and comes amid controversy within Ukip over whether Mr Carswell tried to prevent Mr Farage receiving a knighthood. It was reported on Tuesday that the MP had suggested his former leader should instead be given an OBE “for services to headline writers”. Read more Nigel Farage deserves to be made a duke, says Neil Hamilton Douglas Carswell ‘holds secret talks on defecting to Tories’ The fight between Farage and Carswell is political nihilism Farage call for Ukip’s only MP to be thrown out of the party In response, Mr Farage claimed he was “not particularly” interested in being knighted. Mr Carswell, meanwhile, denied he had done anything wrong, saying: “The emails… directly contradict those who suggest I was not trying to ensure that Ukip got its share of peerages and honours. “You cannot regard that email as anything other than being supportive that Ukip gets its fair share of peerages and honours.” More about: Nigel Farage Russia Today Sam Delaney Douglas Carswell UKIP Comments

Nigel Farage has been accused of “hating foreigners” by a six-year-old girl dressed as the Queen during a television interview with Russia Today.

In a bizarre clip, the former Ukip leader, who was reported earlier in the week to be angry that he had been denied a knighthood, kneels down in front of the child, who then pretends to knight him with a toy sword.

At the end of an interview about Ukip’s prospects, Russia Today presenter Sam Delaney says “bring in Her Majesty, it’s time to knight Nigel Farage”, before telling the Ukip MEP to “kneel there”.

Mr Farage, doing as instructed, begs: “Don’t hurt me”. He then thanks the child.

“You are now Sir Nigel Farage”, mocks Mr Delaney. “We’re also making you honorary British ambassador to America and honorary MP for South Thanet because they didn’t elect you for real. So arise Sir Nigel.”

Mr Farage says he is “honoured”.

The stunt takes a strange twist when, at the end of the staged ceremony, the young girl turns to the Ukip politician and says: “My mummy says you hate foreigners".

An embarrassed Mr Farage replies: “Did she? I don’t think that’s quite right.”

“The Queen has to be non-political”, he retorts.

Key Faces of UKIP







11 show all Key Faces of UKIP



















1/11 Nigel Farage Getty

2/11 United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) Migration spokesman Steven Woolfe addresses supporters and media personnel in central London Getty

3/11 Robert Kilroy-Silk, former television presenter and newly elected member of the European Parliament for the UK Independence Party (UKIP), shows a placard against the European Constitution in front of the Houses of Parliament Getty

4/11 Mark Reckless, Director of Policy Development addresses party members during the UK Independence Party annual conference at Doncaster Racecourse Getty

5/11 Gerard Batten MEP poses with protesters outside parliament Creative Commons

6/11 Diane James gives an address at the UKIP Autumn Conference in Bournemouth Getty

7/11 Douglas Carswell MP speaks to party members and supporters during the UK Independence Party annual conference Getty

8/11 Suzanne Evans, Deputy Party Chairman of UK Independence Party (UKIP) speaks during the launch of UKIP's election manifesto Getty

9/11 Peter Whittle, the UK Independence Party Member of the London Assembly, is interviewed in central London Getty

10/11 MEP Mike Hookem during a visit to Concept Metal Products & Co Ltd Getty

11/11 Paul Nuttall, Deputy Leader of the UK Independence Party speaks at a Say NO, Believe in Britain debate at Carn Brea Leisure Centre in Pool near Redruthon Getty

Mr Delaney, meanwhile, quickly tried to dismiss the comment, saying: “No no, little girl, no no no. You’re not supposed to say that. That’s very naughty.”

The incident comes days after the former Ukip leader attacked his party’s only MP, Douglas Carswell, and called for him to thrown out.

Writing in The Daily Telegraph, Mr Farage said: “As a party, how can we let a man represent us in the House of Commons who actively and transparently seeks to damage us?

“I think there is little future for Ukip with him staying inside this party. The time for him to go is now.”

The row is the latest in a series of spats between the two men and comes amid controversy within Ukip over whether Mr Carswell tried to prevent Mr Farage receiving a knighthood. It was reported on Tuesday that the MP had suggested his former leader should instead be given an OBE “for services to headline writers”.

In response, Mr Farage claimed he was “not particularly” interested in being knighted.

Mr Carswell, meanwhile, denied he had done anything wrong, saying: “The emails… directly contradict those who suggest I was not trying to ensure that Ukip got its share of peerages and honours.

“You cannot regard that email as anything other than being supportive that Ukip gets its fair share of peerages and honours.”