'Better To Die Than Face Court Martial,' Wrote Sting Video Soldier Before Killing Himself
'Better To Die Than Face Court Martial,' Wrote Sting Video Soldier Before Killing Himself
'Better To Die Than Face Court Martial,' Wrote Sting Video Soldier Before Killing Himself The Nashik police, which is investigation the mysterious death of Lance Naik Roy Mathew , an Army man, who was featured in a sting video by a news portal has hinted at a likely suicide. This comes after the investigators recovered Roy's diary, in which he suggests ending his life. "Better to die than face a court martial," the diary entry in Malayalam reads. In the note, he has also apologised to his wife and family and the colonel to whom he reported. Police are now treating the diary entry as his suicide note. Roy, a resident of Kerala's Kollam district has been serving in the army for over a decade. He ran into trouble after a news portal conducted a sting operation about the "Sahayak" (orderly) or "buddy" system in the Army late last month. In the video, Roy, whose face was pixelated but was easily distinguishable from his voice and physical structure were seen describing how they are doing "domestic jobs" of army officials. Roy's family alleged that he was unaware that he was talking to a journalist or the fact that the conversation was being recorded. Roy's brother told local media that ever since the sting was published, he was under pressure and feared about punitive action by the army. His wife said, in the last telephonic conversation they had before Roy 'disappeared' he had broken down. The last communication that Roy is said to have was a text message to the colonel on February 25, which just had one word -"sorry". Roy's body was found hanging in a room of an abandoned barrack in the Deolali Cantonment in Maharashtra on Thursday morning.

The Nashik police, which is investigation the mysterious death of Lance Naik Roy Mathew, an Army man, who was featured in a sting video by a news portal has hinted at a likely suicide.

Screengrab

This comes after the investigators recovered Roy's diary, in which he suggests ending his life.

"Better to die than face a court martial," the diary entry in Malayalam reads. In the note, he has also apologised to his wife and family and the colonel to whom he reported. Police are now treating the diary entry as his suicide note.

Roy, a resident of Kerala's Kollam district has been serving in the army for over a decade. He ran into trouble after a news portal conducted a sting operation about the "Sahayak" (orderly) or "buddy" system in the Army late last month.

Screengrab

In the video, Roy, whose face was pixelated but was easily distinguishable from his voice and physical structure were seen describing how they are doing "domestic jobs" of army officials.

Roy's family alleged that he was unaware that he was talking to a journalist or the fact that the conversation was being recorded.

Roy's brother told local media that ever since the sting was published, he was under pressure and feared about punitive action by the army.

His wife said, in the last telephonic conversation they had before Roy 'disappeared' he had broken down. The last communication that Roy is said to have was a text message to the colonel on February 25, which just had one word -"sorry".

Roy's body was found hanging in a room of an abandoned barrack in the Deolali Cantonment in Maharashtra on Thursday morning.

ANI

Don't Miss 11.2 K SHARES 21.8 K SHARES 27.5 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 17.9 K SHARES

The Army, while hinting at a suicide, has blamed the news portal for his death.

"Preliminary investigations have now revealed the suicide may be a result of a series of events which were triggered by media personnel managing to video-graph the deceased by asking leading questions on his duties as a 'buddy' (to a Colonel) without his knowledge. It is very likely the guilt factor of letting down his superiors or conveying a false impression to an unknown individual, led him to take the extreme step."

Following Roy's death, the news portal has deleted the video.

However, investigators hinted that those who carried out the operation including the journalist may be questioned.