Mukesh Khanna Just Dropped A Major Hint About Shaktimaan's Comeback On TV And Yes, We're Excited!
Mukesh Khanna Just Dropped Major Hint About Shaktimaan's Comeback On TV And Yes, We're Excited!
Mukesh Khanna Just Dropped A Major Hint About Shaktimaan's Comeback On TV And Yes, We're Excited! As a 1990's kid, Shaktimaan will always remain the first superhero for many of us. Every Sunday, kids would be glued to their TV sets at 12 PM just to see their favorite Shaktimaan fight against all odds. An entire generation of kids was completely wooed and inspired by Shaktimaan. From Shaktimaan toys to T-shirts, kids were crazy for their beloved character. And decades later, Television actor Mukesh Khanna, who is still known for playing Shaktimaan in the show dropped a major hint about the show. In his recent interview, he expressed how he wants to bring back the series on small screen. Inaugurating his website and unveiling the wax statue of Shaktiman on Friday, he told IANS, "Last week I attended two school functions where I got immense love and kids were hooting loudly for me as 'Shaktiman'. Therefore, I feel the superhero series should be back again and I am trying to bring back the series on small screen. Doordarshan is allowing it but I want satellite channels should come to air the series." We hope it happens soon!

As a 1990's kid, Shaktimaan will always remain the first superhero for many of us. Every Sunday, kids would be glued to their TV sets at 12 PM just to see their favorite Shaktimaan fight against all odds.

Pinterest

An entire generation of kids was completely wooed and inspired by Shaktimaan. From Shaktimaan toys to T-shirts, kids were crazy for their beloved character.

And decades later, Television actor Mukesh Khanna, who is still known for playing Shaktimaan in the show dropped a major hint about the show. In his recent interview, he expressed how he wants to bring back the series on small screen.

Pinterest

Inaugurating his website and unveiling the wax statue of Shaktiman on Friday, he told IANS,

GyaaniBaba

"Last week I attended two school functions where I got immense love and kids were hooting loudly for me as 'Shaktiman'. Therefore, I feel the superhero series should be back again and I am trying to bring back the series on small screen. Doordarshan is allowing it but I want satellite channels should come to air the series."

We hope it happens soon!

Don't Miss 62.6 K SHARES 25.3 K SHARES 8.8 K SHARES 26.2 K SHARES 25.9 K SHARES