Cat had its EYES and NOSE sewed shut in Philippines
Month-old cat had its EYES and NOSE sewed shut


A one-month-old kitten has been rescued in the Philippines after its tormentors sewed together her eyelids, ears and nose.

The cat, named July, was found stumbling around an alley in Manila on February 14.

It was barely able to eat anything and its abusers had threaded thick cotton through her skin.

A one-month-old kitten has been rescued in the Philippines after its tormentors sewed together her eyelids, ears and nose

With its eyes and ears stitched, it found it difficult to move around as it had lost all spacial awareness.

July is believed to have been like that for around a week as the wounds had already healed.

Cat lover Leonora Calamba, 41, found the kitten stumbling around alleyways near her home and immediately took her inside for treatment.

July was barely able to eat anything and its abusers had threaded thick cotton through her skin

July screams in agony as the cotton threads are cut from her eyes. Cat-lover Leonora Calamba said: 'Doing this was the only way to save her'

In the video, July yells in agony as Leonora and her family carefully unpick the tight stitches.

Leonora said: 'The poor kitten was in pain. It was so hard to take out all of the stitches. She was screaming and meowing because it was hurting her so much.

'But doing this was the only way to save her. Whoever could do such a thing to a newborn kitten is sick, they need to be punished before they do it again.'

July has now recovered but has scars on its ears and nose. Its wounds are starting to heal

Leonora's niece Jonil Manatad Novela, 21, believes that the stitches had been in place for over a week as the wounds had already started to heal.

He said that July had now recovered but had been left with scars on its ears and nose.

Jonil added: 'July is doing well now and seems to be having a good time with other stray cats that my aunt has taken in.

Leonora's neice Jonil said: 'We can only assume that it's some kind of psychopath. Who else could do this kind of cruelty to a defenceless kitten?' Pictured, July playing with other cats

'When my aunt saw the kitten in the street she grabbed her immediately and took care of it. It's so tragic. We found the kitten with thread through its eyes, nose and ears.

'We don't know who did this. We can only assume that it's some kind of psychopath. Who else could do this kind of cruelty to a defenceless kitten? They are a useless person, no heart, they are sick.

'The kitten was only about two weeks old. Thankfully we found her in time or she would surely have died.'