As UP's Rape Accused Minister Gayatri Prajapati Still Walks Free, Airports Put On Alert
As UP's Rape Accused Minister Gayatri Prajapati Still Walks Free, Airports Put On Alert
As UP's Rape Accused Minister Gayatri Prajapati Still Walks Free, Airports Put On Alert Airports and exit points across the country have been put on alert amid reports that rape-accused UP Minister Gayatri Prajapati is planning to flee the country, according to officials. Immigration and all the forces have been alerted to keep an eye out for him. A Letter of Cancellation (LC) will soon be opened against him, which will alert immigration authorities about any possible move by the suspect to leave the country. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), guarding Uttar Pradesh's border with Nepal, has also been alerted about the possibility of such a move by Prajapati. Prajapati is accused in separate cases of gangrape and an attempt to rape another woman and her minor daughter. He has remained elusive and the Lucknow Police have initiated steps to withdraw his 'Y' category security. Meanwhile, the BJP accused chief minister Akhilesh Yadav of hiding Prajapati at his residence and said the chief minister had become a "patron" of criminals in the state. "The chief minister has hidden Gayatri Prajapati at his residence and the police is enacting the drama of carrying out raids to arrest him," BJP state unit president Keshav Prasad Maurya claimed. Also Read: Rape Accused UP Minister Gayatri Prajapati Walks Free Despite SC Order To Arrest Him, And UP Police Are Doing Nothing "Can Akhilesh take a pledge in the name of the mother Ganga that Gayatri has not been kept at the CM's residence ... if the Chief Minister really wants, Prajapati can be caught in ten minutes," he said.

Airports and exit points across the country have been put on alert amid reports that rape-accused UP Minister Gayatri Prajapati is planning to flee the country, according to officials.

BCCL

Immigration and all the forces have been alerted to keep an eye out for him. A Letter of Cancellation (LC) will soon be opened against him, which will alert immigration authorities about any possible move by the suspect to leave the country.

The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), guarding Uttar Pradesh's border with Nepal, has also been alerted about the possibility of such a move by Prajapati.

Prajapati is accused in separate cases of gangrape and an attempt to rape another woman and her minor daughter. He has remained elusive and the Lucknow Police have initiated steps to withdraw his 'Y' category security.

Meanwhile, the BJP accused chief minister Akhilesh Yadav of hiding Prajapati at his residence and said the chief minister had become a "patron" of criminals in the state.

AP

"The chief minister has hidden Gayatri Prajapati at his residence and the police is enacting the drama of carrying out raids to arrest him," BJP state unit president Keshav Prasad Maurya claimed.

Also Read: Rape Accused UP Minister Gayatri Prajapati Walks Free Despite SC Order To Arrest Him, And UP Police Are Doing Nothing

"Can Akhilesh take a pledge in the name of the mother Ganga that Gayatri has not been kept at the CM's residence ... if the Chief Minister really wants, Prajapati can be caught in ten minutes," he said.

BCCL

Don't Miss 24 K SHARES 27.9 K SHARES 16.7 K SHARES 6.6 K SHARES 12.4 K SHARES

At a press conference on Friday, Akhilesh denied the charges of harbouring Prajapati and said, "The matter is in the Supreme Court... The government will fully cooperate and go by its order. Justice will be done."

Acting on the Supreme Court's orders, police said they have been making efforts to nab him and they might even apply for cancellation of his passport so that the minister cannot escape from the country.

AP

Interestingly, though, the minister was seen moving freely from one place to another in his constituency seeking votes.

The last time Prajapati was seen in public was on February 27, when he spoke to the media saying he will win by a huge margin and work under Akhilesh Yadav once again.

Inputs From TNN & Agencies