In Theaters This Weekend: Hugh Jackman Makes His Final Stand as ‘Logan’
In Theaters This Weekend: Hugh Jackman Makes His Final Stand as ‘Logan’
There are three major movies out this weekend, but seems to be your best bet. Then again, if you have a teen and are wary of the violence in Hugh Jackman’s final Wolverine movie,  might be a better option. At this point, what else can be said about this critically acclaimed superhero movie? , set in the future with a Wolverine closer to the end than the beginning, is asked by his longtime friend and mentor Professor X to help escort a young mutant to safety. Director James Mangold and star Hugh Jackman are both getting praise for the film. Dafne Keen, meanwhile, might just be the next big thing. This movie is probably hoping to capitalize on the fact that is R-rated and thus a little too violent for younger audiences. features a high school student stuck in a situation not too dissimilar to — she keeps reliving the same day over and over and must figure out why. Rising star Zoey Deutch, the daughter of Lea Thompson, stars. And finally, while this movie might find an audience, seeing as it is based on a bestseller, critics aren’t giving it much affection. It stars Sam Worthington as a man who goes through a personal tragedy and journeys to an odd and profound shack deep in the woods of Oregon. Oscar nominee Octavia Spencer co-stars. Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram , or leave your comments below.

There are three major movies out this weekend, but Logan seems to be your best bet. Then again, if you have a teen and are wary of the violence in Hugh Jackman’s final Wolverine movie, Before I Fall might be a better option.

Logan

Hugh Jackman stars in Logan. (Photo: 20th Century Fox) More

At this point, what else can be said about this critically acclaimed superhero movie? Logan, set in the future with a Wolverine closer to the end than the beginning, is asked by his longtime friend and mentor Professor X to help escort a young mutant to safety. Director James Mangold and star Hugh Jackman are both getting praise for the film. Dafne Keen, meanwhile, might just be the next big thing.

Before I Fall

Zoey Deutch stars in Before I Fall (Photo: Awesomeness) More

This movie is probably hoping to capitalize on the fact that Logan is R-rated and thus a little too violent for younger audiences. Before I Fall features a high school student stuck in a situation not too dissimilar to Groundhog Day — she keeps reliving the same day over and over and must figure out why. Rising star Zoey Deutch, the daughter of Lea Thompson, stars.

The Shack

Sam Worthington and Octavia Spencer co-star in The Shack. (Photo: Jake Giles Netter/Summit Entertainment/courtesy of Everett Collection) More

And finally, while this movie might find an audience, seeing as it is based on a New York Times bestseller, critics aren’t giving it much affection. It stars Sam Worthington as a man who goes through a personal tragedy and journeys to an odd and profound shack deep in the woods of Oregon. Oscar nominee Octavia Spencer co-stars.

What to Stream: 3 Dangerous Road-Trip Movies:

Read more from Yahoo Movies:

Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram, or leave your comments below.