One Direction's Louis Tomlinson arrested over airport altercation
One Direction's Louis Tomlinson arrested over airport altercation
ne Direction star Louis Tomlinson has been arrested for allegedly attacking a photographer at an airport while collecting his luggage. The 25-year-old star had been returning from a week in Las Vegas with his partner, fashion blogger Eleanor Calder, when photographers spotted the pair. The incident, which happened in Los Angeles on Friday night, saw him attend a police station on Saturday morning. It is alleged the photographer had been taking pictures of the pair when the star is accused of knocking him to the floor, leading to the man sustaining injuries to his back and head. source said the photographer made a citizen's arrest on Tomlinson. Calder is also thought to have got involved in an argument with onlookers who began filming the row. In a statement his lawyer Martin Singer said: "The paparazzi provoked and caused the altercation that occurred with Louis.  It's not the first time that a paparazzi has created an altercation with a celebrity. "While the altercation was going on with the paparazzi, three other individuals were attacking his girlfriend during this incident and he came to her defence." According to reports the incident happened after Louis asked one photographer to stop filming, which he refused to do. Louis lost his mother Johannah Deakin to leukaemia in December just days before he performed live at The X Factor final. Fans saw the star perform  Just Hold On in tribute to her.

One Direction star Louis Tomlinson has been arrested for allegedly attacking a photographer at an airport while collecting his luggage.

The 25-year-old star had been returning from a week in Las Vegas with his partner, fashion blogger Eleanor Calder, when photographers spotted the pair.

The incident, which happened in Los Angeles on Friday night, saw him attend a police station on Saturday morning.

It is alleged the photographer had been taking pictures of the pair when the star is accused of knocking him to the floor, leading to the man sustaining injuries to his back and head.