Bulls Players Partied With Chance the Rapper After Victory Over Warriors
Bulls Players Partied With Chance the Rapper After Victory Over Warriors 
Following the Bulls ' 94-87 victory over the Golden State Warriors on Thursday, Jimmy Butler and Dwyane Wade were seen partying at when the Bulls are still clinging onto a playoff spot Chicago Bulls Stars Party with Chance the Rapper After Beating Warriors (VIDEO) https://t.co/C4eY7oV9e2 With two days off, the Bulls had every right to let loose and blow off some steam, but maybe it wasn't the best time to have a cake with sparklers and have champagne brought out conveniently after defeating the best team in the NBA. Sure, every team that has toppled the Goliath of the league should wear the victory like a badge of honor, but c'mon guys. A sportstips@complex.com

Following the Bulls' 94-87 victory over the Golden State Warriors on Thursday, Jimmy Butler and Dwyane Wade were seen partying at Studio Paris in Chicago, the same place where Chance the Rapper performed that night. With the win, the Bulls improved their record to 31-30, and still sit, at best, in sixth place in the Eastern Conference. But one look at this party, and you would have sworn that they won the NBA title.

In the video, courtesy TMZ, cake and champagne were brought into their VIP section. Butler and Chance are dancing and hopping around, then there's Wade, casually sipping his drink throughout the festivities. The three-time NBA champion is seen posted up against a wall, probably wondering why this place is doing the most when the Bulls are still clinging onto a playoff spot. Or, D-Wade is looking at this all go down, and thinking that he's getting too old for this shit. Either way, the timing of this party is incredibly poor.

Chicago Bulls Stars Party with Chance the Rapper After Beating Warriors (VIDEO) https://t.co/C4eY7oV9e2 — TMZ Sports (@TMZ_Sports) March 4, 2017

With two days off, the Bulls had every right to let loose and blow off some steam, but maybe it wasn't the best time to have a cake with sparklers and have champagne brought out conveniently after defeating the best team in the NBA. Sure, every team that has toppled the Goliath of the league should wear the victory like a badge of honor, but c'mon guys. Act like you have been there before.

Check out the exclusive video of the wild night right here.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.