5-year-old's photo used in charity scam, family claims
5-year-old's photo used in charity scam, family claims 
Cancer-stricken 5-year-old's photo used in charity scam, family claims Updated 1421 GMT (2221 HKT) March 3, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Story highlights Photo of boy with brain cancer used in charity scam, family says Woman raising money claimed it was for boy's funeral, grandmother says It's hard enough to have a 5-year-old son battling brain cancer. But when Kelly Incandela learned that a woman apparently was going around Brooklyn in New York City fraudulently asking for donations for a funeral for her son, sadness quickly morphed into something else. Boy's photo allegedly used Family's new crusade

Story highlights Photo of boy with brain cancer used in charity scam, family says

Woman raising money claimed it was for boy's funeral, grandmother says

(CNN) It's hard enough to have a 5-year-old son battling brain cancer. But when Kelly Incandela learned that a woman apparently was going around Brooklyn in New York City fraudulently asking for donations for a funeral for her son, sadness quickly morphed into something else.

"At first I was heartbroken... then I got angry," Incandela told CNN. "I can't fathom the idea that someone can use an innocent child whom they've never met and who is going through a very hard time, how they can use that to benefit themselves."

Incandela said she first learned about a month ago that a woman was using her son Gianni's image to solicit money. Her mother, Dee Tirado, got an email from a stranger asking if Gianni had really passed away.

Boy's photo allegedly used

The message was sent to an address on Gianni's GoFundMe page, which Tirado had set up. It said a woman had come into a store asking for donations for Gianni's funeral. The sender reached out by email because the GoFundMe page didn't say Gianni had died -- because, of course, he hadn't.

Read More