The world's first craft beer hotel wants to soak you in a hot tub full of beer
The world's first craft beer hotel wants to soak you in a hot tub full of beer
Imagine walking into a well appointed hotel room. It's clean, maybe even tastefully decorated. As you walk towards a neatly-made bed, you notice a glint of silver catch the corner of your eye. Turning, you see... a tap? And there's a mini-fridge underneath it, stocked completely full of beer? Are you in heaven right now? Nope, but you just could be inside the future beer hotel that Scotland-based brewery BrewDog wants to make a reality. SEE ALSO: You can get a free pint of beer in London every time it rains BrewDog's created an Indiegogo campaign to crowdfund their dream...of opening the world's first craft beer hotel. It'd be housed on the same campus as their first U.S. taproom in Columbus, Ohio, which has only been open a week. This marks the second time BrewDog's captured worldwide attention for doing something extremely cool. Less than a month ago, the brewery announced that it would give all employees a paid week off to settle in new pet additions, known as their "puppy parental leave" policy . Now, they want to cement their title as coolest brewery in history, by creating a hotel that "will provide a complete experiential environment in which to truly immerse yourself in the world of craft beer." Image:  brewdog via indiegogo Image:  brewdog via indiegogo Some of the proposed hotel's unique features: Each room will be beer-themed and come with a tap that pours out BrewDog's Punk IPA. There's a mini-fridge full of beer Guests will be able to taste limited-edition brews at the taproom right next door. Craft beer pairings also come with every beer-infused breakfast, lunch and dinner. While consuming beer is wonderful, it's not the only way beer will play into your stay. Beer-infused spa treatments—like a hop face mask or malted barley massage—will also be available, of course. In the luxury suite, they plan on installing a hot tub filled with IPA. Think about it. You could literally douse yourself head to toe in beer. Image:  brewdog via indiegogo BrewDog estimates the hotel will cost $6 million to build and furnish. They hope to have all plans for it finalized by June 2017. Their Indiegogo campaign has a goal of $75,000, and as of this writing, they are already 90 percent of the way there with 448 backers. "By supporting this project, you will be staking your claim on one of our most ambitious projects to date," BrewDog states on their fundraising page. "We want to create the top craft beer destination on the planet." If that sounds like something that will interest you, you can get in on the ground floor by visiting the campaign page . BONUS: Enjoy draft beer anywhere with this portable tap

Imagine walking into a well appointed hotel room. It's clean, maybe even tastefully decorated.

As you walk towards a neatly-made bed, you notice a glint of silver catch the corner of your eye. Turning, you see... a tap? And there's a mini-fridge underneath it, stocked completely full of beer? Are you in heaven right now?

Nope, but you just could be inside the future beer hotel that Scotland-based brewery BrewDog wants to make a reality.

SEE ALSO: You can get a free pint of beer in London every time it rains

BrewDog's created an Indiegogo campaign to crowdfund their dream...of opening the world's first craft beer hotel. It'd be housed on the same campus as their first U.S. taproom in Columbus, Ohio, which has only been open a week.

This marks the second time BrewDog's captured worldwide attention for doing something extremely cool. Less than a month ago, the brewery announced that it would give all employees a paid week off to settle in new pet additions, known as their "puppy parental leave" policy.

Now, they want to cement their title as coolest brewery in history, by creating a hotel that "will provide a complete experiential environment in which to truly immerse yourself in the world of craft beer."

Image: brewdog via indiegogo

Image: brewdog via indiegogo

Some of the proposed hotel's unique features:

Each room will be beer-themed and come with a tap that pours out BrewDog's Punk IPA.

There's a mini-fridge full of beer in each shower.

Guests will be able to taste limited-edition brews at the taproom right next door.

Craft beer pairings also come with every beer-infused breakfast, lunch and dinner.

While consuming beer is wonderful, it's not the only way beer will play into your stay. Beer-infused spa treatments—like a hop face mask or malted barley massage—will also be available, of course. In the luxury suite, they plan on installing a hot tub filled with IPA.

Think about it. You could literally douse yourself head to toe in beer.

Image: brewdog via indiegogo

BrewDog estimates the hotel will cost $6 million to build and furnish. They hope to have all plans for it finalized by June 2017. Their Indiegogo campaign has a goal of $75,000, and as of this writing, they are already 90 percent of the way there with 448 backers.

"By supporting this project, you will be staking your claim on one of our most ambitious projects to date," BrewDog states on their fundraising page. "We want to create the top craft beer destination on the planet."

If that sounds like something that will interest you, you can get in on the ground floor by visiting the campaign page.