RSS Removes Leader Who Announced Bounty On Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan's Head From Official Posts, Will Continue As Swayam Sevak
RSS Removes Leader Who Announced Bounty On Kerala CM's Head From Official Posts
RSS Removes Leader Who Announced Bounty On Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan's Head From Official Posts The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has sacked Kundan Chandrawat, from all his posts at the outfit after a video of him sparked controversy. In the video, Chandrawat, speaking at an RSS event in Ujjain had promised Rs 1 crore reward for beheading Kerala Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He was also heard bragging about Godhra and threatened similar action in Kerala in retaliation to the murder of RSS members in the state. The video had sparked widespread outrage and condemnation from CPIM and other parties. After the controversy on Friday Chandrawat had retracted on his comment and said it was an emotional statement. RSS which distanced itself from Chandrawat’s remarks said" It also added that: "Kundan who made controversial statement (on Kerala CM) at Ujjain protest mtg, relieved of responsibilities in RSS," Dr MM Vaidya,tweets RSS pic.twitter.com/9TcoPH3UNB RSS chief spokesperson Manmohan Vaidya however said Chandrawat has only been removed from officials responsibilities and will continue to be a functionary of the saffron outfit. Chandrawat’s comments came at a time when the tensions between the RSS and the CPIM has been on the rise. Both sides accuse the other of murdering their activists.

The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has sacked Kundan Chandrawat, from all his posts at the outfit after a video of him sparked controversy.

In the video, Chandrawat, speaking at an RSS event in Ujjain had promised Rs 1 crore reward for beheading Kerala Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.

He was also heard bragging about Godhra and threatened similar action in Kerala in retaliation to the murder of RSS members in the state.

The video had sparked widespread outrage and condemnation from CPIM and other parties.

After the controversy on Friday Chandrawat had retracted on his comment and said it was an emotional statement.

“I was pained on the issue of murders of Swayamsevaks and therefore made an emotional statement. I retract it (statement) and express my regret.”

RSS which distanced itself from Chandrawat’s remarks said"

“Chandrawat’s controversial statement has created a wrong impression about the Sangh. He has been removed from all posts.”

It also added that:

“a misconception has been created about the RSS due to the controversial statement.”

"Kundan who made controversial statement (on Kerala CM) at Ujjain protest mtg, relieved of responsibilities in RSS," Dr MM Vaidya,tweets RSS pic.twitter.com/9TcoPH3UNB — ANI (@ANI_news) March 3, 2017

RSS chief spokesperson Manmohan Vaidya however said Chandrawat has only been removed from officials responsibilities and will continue to be a functionary of the saffron outfit.

Chandrawat’s comments came at a time when the tensions between the RSS and the CPIM has been on the rise. Both sides accuse the other of murdering their activists.