Four men arrested in Dorset over escape of murderer Shaun Walmsley

Press Association   Four men have been arrested in connection with the escape of a murderer from custody. The arrests in the hunt for Shaun Walmsley, from Liverpool, were made in Poole, Dorset, on Friday afternoon. Walmsley, 28, went on the run on 21 February when two men armed with a knife and a gun confronted prison officers guarding him at Aintree University hospital during a visit from HMP Walton. Walmsley and the men then fled in a gold Volvo, which was later found abandoned in the Fazakerley area of Liverpool. Dorset police said armed officers stopped a silver Vauxhall Corsa at around 3.45pm on Friday in Haven Road, Canford Cliffs. During the planned operation, officers fired tyre deflation rounds to stop the vehicle and arrested the four men. None of those arrested were Walmsley, police added. No one was injured and no other weapons were discharged. Two men aged 24 and two aged 25, all from the Liverpool area, are being questioned on suspicion of assisting an offender. They are assisting officers in Merseyside with their inquiries. DCI Gavin Dudfield, of Dorset police, said: “Dorset police responded to reports that a number of people involved in the unlawful escape of Shaun Walmsley were travelling through Dorset. “This was a successful targeted operation and I would like to thank all the officers involved, including our alliance colleagues at Devon and Cornwall police as well as Merseyside police. “I appreciate that due to the nature of the incident there may have been some concerns in the local community, so I would like to thank the public for their patience and understanding while these necessary arrests were made.” Walmsley was serving life with a minimum term of 30 years for the murder of Anthony Duffy, 33, in May 2014. Duffy was lured to an address in Aintree and repeatedly stabbed and left for dead. Merseyside police are said to be working with forces overseas as part of their search for the killer. Two men aged 25 and 27 and a 26-year-old woman, all from Norris Green, Liverpool, had previously been arrested over the escape and they were later released pending further inquiries.  UK news

Four men have been arrested in connection with the escape of a murderer from custody.

The arrests in the hunt for Shaun Walmsley, from Liverpool, were made in Poole, Dorset, on Friday afternoon.

Walmsley, 28, went on the run on 21 February when two men armed with a knife and a gun confronted prison officers guarding him at Aintree University hospital during a visit from HMP Walton.

Walmsley and the men then fled in a gold Volvo, which was later found abandoned in the Fazakerley area of Liverpool.

Dorset police said armed officers stopped a silver Vauxhall Corsa at around 3.45pm on Friday in Haven Road, Canford Cliffs.

During the planned operation, officers fired tyre deflation rounds to stop the vehicle and arrested the four men. None of those arrested were Walmsley, police added. No one was injured and no other weapons were discharged.

Two men aged 24 and two aged 25, all from the Liverpool area, are being questioned on suspicion of assisting an offender. They are assisting officers in Merseyside with their inquiries.

DCI Gavin Dudfield, of Dorset police, said: “Dorset police responded to reports that a number of people involved in the unlawful escape of Shaun Walmsley were travelling through Dorset.

“This was a successful targeted operation and I would like to thank all the officers involved, including our alliance colleagues at Devon and Cornwall police as well as Merseyside police.

“I appreciate that due to the nature of the incident there may have been some concerns in the local community, so I would like to thank the public for their patience and understanding while these necessary arrests were made.”

Walmsley was serving life with a minimum term of 30 years for the murder of Anthony Duffy, 33, in May 2014. Duffy was lured to an address in Aintree and repeatedly stabbed and left for dead.

Merseyside police are said to be working with forces overseas as part of their search for the killer.

Two men aged 25 and 27 and a 26-year-old woman, all from Norris Green, Liverpool, had previously been arrested over the escape and they were later released pending further inquiries.