Donald Trump has spent almost a third of his time in office at Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida
Donald Trump has spent almost a third of his time in office at Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida
Donald Trump has spent almost a third of his time in office in his Florida estate in Mar-a-Lago as the “Winter White House” has become the US President’s weekend getaway. Since his inauguration, Donald Trump would have spent 14 days in the 126-room estate, where his family enjoys private quarters, out of his first 44 days in office. White House correspondent Mark Knoller tweeted the ratio of President Trump’s time in Mar-a-Lago corresponded to nearly a third of his time in office. Read more Trump torture comments 'make my blood run cold', says UN rights expert Trump and Lavrov echo each other on Jeff Sessions 'witch hunt' Patrick Stewart is applying for U.S. citizenship so he can fight Trump Donald Trump's Russian problem needs to be solved “By the end of the weekend, Pres Trump will have spent all or part of 14 days at Mar-a-Lago. Amounts to 31% of his days in office, so far.” By the end of the weekend, Pres Trump will have spent all or part of 14 days at Mar-a-Lago. Amounts to 31% of his days in office, so far. President Trump flew out to the Palm Beach resort on Friday for the fourth weekend since the inauguration. Speaking at St Andrews Catholic School in Orlando Florida at a Teaching Conference, before he heading to Mar-a-Lago, Mr Trump said: “Florida, to me, is a very, very special, special state.  I mean, I know those people back there -- they know why I like it so much. “We've had a lot of success in Florida and I love it.  It's my second home.  I'm here all the time.  We have the Southern White House in Florida.  (Laughter.)  And we get a lot of work done -- believe me, there's not rest at the Southern White House -- it's all work.” As he heads to a Mar-a-Lago weekend, Pres Trump said "we get a lot of work done, believe me. There is no rest at the southern White House." But President Trump’s regular visits to the Florida resort, he dubbed “the Winter White House”, is costing the taxpayers millions. An estimate by the Government Accounting Office has found trips to Mar-a-Lago could be costing the US taxpayer more than $3 million (£2.4m) per visit . The travel and security bills for Mr Trump, his family and his staff is racking up. Security has been a particular issue on the resort and during Mr Trump's visits local police and the Coast Guard, who patrol the exposed shoreline which Mar-a-Lago backs on to, are required at the ready. But Mr Trump previously said he wanted to use the resort to host world leaders . Barack Obama's travel and safety expenses were about $97m over eight years but an estimation by the Washington Post found that by mid-February, Mr Trump's bill was already $10m. World news in pictures               World news in pictures    28 February 2017   An Israeli youth supporter of settlements cries as Israeli police forces move protestors away from a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli forces.  Nine homes in the Ofra settlement were found to have been built on private Palestinian land and the Israeli supreme court ordered them razed by March 5, rejecting last minute petitions to delay the demolition or have the buildings sealed instead   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Israeli youths supporters of settlements surround and sit on a rooftop of a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli forces to evict the people in nine houses   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Israeli policemen remove a pro-settlement activist during an operation by Israeli forces to evict residents from several homes in the Israeli settlement of Ofra   Reuters     28 February 2017   Israeli youths supporters of settlements sit on the rooftop of a house which is due to be emptied and demolished in the settlement of Ofra in the occupied West Bank, during an operation by Israeli force   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Marine Le Pen, French National Front (FN) political party leader and candidate for French 2017 presidential election, visits the International Agricultural Show in Paris, France   Reuters     28 February 2017   An Afghan health worker vaccinates a child as relatives watch during a campaign to eliminate polio on the outskirts of Kabul, Afghanistan   AP     28 February 2017   Displaced Iraqis who fled their homes are pictured at the special forces base as Iraqi forces battle with Islamic State militants in western Mosul, Iraq   Reuters     28 February 2017   Makeshift shacks are seen at an encampment after the evacuation of members of the Roma community, along a section of the disused 'Petite Ceinture' circular railway line near Porte de la Chapelle in northern Paris   Getty Images     28 February 2017   A general view of construction of the Pyongchang Olympic Village in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea. The Pyongchang Olympic Village will house athletes during the Pyongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games   Getty Images     28 February 2017   A general view of construction of the Pyongchang Olympic Village in Pyeongchang-gun, South Korea. The Pyongchang Olympic Village will house athletes during the Pyongchang 2018 Winter Olympic Games   Getty Images     28 February 2017   Special police carry boxes outside a building at Maerkisches Viertel area in Berlin, Germany   Reuters     28 February 2017   Iraqi Special Forces soldiers walk on a street during a battle with Islamic State fighters in Mosul, Iraq   Reuters     27 February 2017   Members of the Iraqi army's 9th Division fire a multiple rocket launcher from a hill in Talul al-Atshana, on the southwestern outskirts of Mosul, during an offensive to retake the city from Islamic State (IS) group fighter   Getty Images     27 February 2017   French far-right Front National (FN) party candidate for the presidential election Marine Le Pen visits a stand at the Agriculture Fair in Paris   Getty Images     27 February 2017   Members of the Iraqi army's 9th Division hold a position on a hill in Talul al-Atshana, on the southwestern outskirts of Mosul, during an offensive to retake the city from Islamic State (IS) group fighters   Getty     27 February 2017   Emirati men walk across the dunes in the Rimah desert, west of Al-Ain in the United Arab Emirate   Getty Images     27 February 2017   Comedian Bill Cosby leaves after a pre-trial hearing at the Montgomery County Courthouse in Norristown, Pennsylvania.  The judge agreed to form a jury from another district in Pennsylvania, on the grounds that media coverage has potentially biased the local jury pool   Getty Images     27 February 2017   Free Syrian Army fighters man a checkpoint on the eastern edge of the northern Syrian town of al-Bab, Syria   Reuters     27 February 2017   A Rohingya refugee boy is seen at Kutupalang Unregistered Refugee Camp in Cox's Bazar, Banglades   Reuters     27 February 2017   A dancer performs during a rehearsal at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre   Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images     27 February 2017   Dancers perform during a rehearsal at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre   Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images     27 February 2017   Ballet dancers backstage before a performance of a ballet production of Jean-Madeleine Schneitzhoeffer's La Sylphide at A,B, Solovyanenko Donetsk Opera and Ballet Theatre   Viktor Drachev\TASS via Getty Images     27 February 2017   Syrian civil defence volunteers, known as the White Helmets, look for survivors amidst the debris following reported government airstrike on the Syrian town of Ariha, in the northwestern province of Idlib   Getty Images     27 February 2017   President Donald Trump meets with leaders of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington.  Also at the meeting are White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, and Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, on the couch   AP     27 February 2017   Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway takes a photo as US President Donald Trump and leaders of historically black universities and colleges talk before a group photo in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     26 February 2017   Actor Janelle Monae, NASA mathematician Katherine Johnson and actors Taraji P. Henson and Octavia Spencer pose backstage during the 89th Annual Academy Awards   Getty Images     26 February 2017   Syrian men walk amid the rubble of buildings destroyed a day earlier following reported government airstrike on the rebel-held town of Douma, on the eastern outskirts of the capital Damascus   Getty Images     25 February 2017   A bridge modelled on London's Tower Bridge, in Suzhou, China's eastern Jiangsu province.  The bridge features four 40 metre tall towers instead of two, but otherwise uses many design elements from the London original   Getty Images     25 February 2017   A bridge modelled on London's Tower Bridge, in Suzhou, China's eastern Jiangsu province.  The bridge features four 40 metre tall towers instead of two, but otherwise uses many design elements from the London original   Getty Images   More about: Donald Trump Mar-a-Lago Comments

Donald Trump has spent almost a third of his time in office in his Florida estate in Mar-a-Lago as the “Winter White House” has become the US President’s weekend getaway.

Since his inauguration, Donald Trump would have spent 14 days in the 126-room estate, where his family enjoys private quarters, out of his first 44 days in office.

White House correspondent Mark Knoller tweeted the ratio of President Trump’s time in Mar-a-Lago corresponded to nearly a third of his time in office.

“By the end of the weekend, Pres Trump will have spent all or part of 14 days at Mar-a-Lago. Amounts to 31% of his days in office, so far.”

By the end of the weekend, Pres Trump will have spent all or part of 14 days at Mar-a-Lago. Amounts to 31% of his days in office, so far. — Mark Knoller (@markknoller) March 3, 2017

President Trump flew out to the Palm Beach resort on Friday for the fourth weekend since the inauguration.

Speaking at St Andrews Catholic School in Orlando Florida at a Teaching Conference, before he heading to Mar-a-Lago, Mr Trump said: “Florida, to me, is a very, very special, special state. I mean, I know those people back there -- they know why I like it so much.

“We've had a lot of success in Florida and I love it. It's my second home. I'm here all the time. We have the Southern White House in Florida. (Laughter.) And we get a lot of work done -- believe me, there's not rest at the Southern White House -- it's all work.”

As he heads to a Mar-a-Lago weekend, Pres Trump said "we get a lot of work done, believe me. There is no rest at the southern White House." — Mark Knoller (@markknoller) March 3, 2017

But President Trump’s regular visits to the Florida resort, he dubbed “the Winter White House”, is costing the taxpayers millions.

An estimate by the Government Accounting Office has found trips to Mar-a-Lago could be costing the US taxpayer more than $3 million (£2.4m) per visit.

The travel and security bills for Mr Trump, his family and his staff is racking up. Security has been a particular issue on the resort and during Mr Trump's visits local police and the Coast Guard, who patrol the exposed shoreline which Mar-a-Lago backs on to, are required at the ready.

But Mr Trump previously said he wanted to use the resort to host world leaders.

Barack Obama's travel and safety expenses were about $97m over eight years but an estimation by the Washington Post found that by mid-February, Mr Trump's bill was already $10m.