13 Things to Know About the Charts This Week: Michael Jackson's 'Thriller' Is All-Time No. 1 R&B/Hip-Hop Album
13 Things to Know About the Charts This Week: Michael Jackson's 'Thriller' Is All-Time No. 1 R&B/Hip-Hop Album
13 Things to Know About the Charts This Week: Michael Jackson's 'Thriller' Is All-Time No. 1 R&B/Hip-Hop Album  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Ed Sheeran 's "Shape of You" rules the Billboard Hot 100 (dated March 11) for a fifth week. Meanwhile, Future debuts at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart with his self-titled set and rockets 38-1 on the Billboard Artist 100 chart. Here are 13 other things you should know about 's charts this week:  1. . Click here to read the full recap . 2. Following the chart-topping launch of the rapper's self-titled album, . Click here to read the full article . 3. . Click here to read the full article . 4. Likewise, . Click here to read the full article . 5.  . Click here to read the full story . 6. after its first full week of tracking. Songs by Shawn Mendes , Maroon 5 (featuring Future), DJ Khaled (featuring Beyonce and Jay Z ) and Ariana Grande (also featuring Future) additionally make notable moves on the Hot 100. Click here to read the full article . 7. . Both songs preview upcoming albums from the acts. Click here to read the full article . 8. . Mendes, Del Rey, Bebe Rexha and Britney Spears also make news on the chart. Click here to read the full item . 9. On the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart, Plus, The Weeknd and Martin Solveig add top 10s on the Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart. Click here to read the full article . 10. Following the London finale of the band's farewell The End Tour, . Click here to read the full piece . 11. . Click here to read the full article . 12. With her first solo album of new material since 1999, . Meanwhile, Lauren Alaina earns her first top 10 on Country Airplay . Click here to read the full article . 13. On the latest Chart Beat Podcast, discusses after nearly six months and how Capitol Records continues to infuse radio with hits from Katy Perry and Niall Horan . Click here to listen to the podcast .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Michael Jackson accepts a gold disc for "Thriller" in London in 1983.

Ed Sheeran's "Shape of You" rules the Billboard Hot 100 (dated March 11) for a fifth week. Meanwhile, Future debuts at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart with his self-titled set and rockets 38-1 on the Billboard Artist 100 chart.

Here are 13 other things you should know about Billboard's charts this week:

1. Michael Jackson's Thriller, Mary J. Blige's "Be Without You" and The Temptations reign on Billboard's first-ever all-time R&B/hip-hop rankings. Click here to read the full recap.

2. Following the chart-topping launch of the rapper's self-titled album, Future is headed for an unprecedented second consecutive No. 1 debut on the Billboard 200 with HNDRXX. Click here to read the full article.

3. "Green Light," Lorde's comeback single, soared to No. 1 on the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140. Click here to read the full article.

4. Likewise, Coldplay's newest single, "Hypnotised," debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140. Click here to read the full article.

5. Calvin Harris' "Slide," featuring Migos and Frank Ocean, earns Harris his fifth top 10 on the Billboard + Twitter Top Tracks chart. Click here to read the full story.

6. Kygo and Selena Gomez's collab "It Ain't Me" vaults from No. 93 to No. 12 on the Hot 100 after its first full week of tracking. Songs by Shawn Mendes, Maroon 5 (featuring Future), DJ Khaled (featuring Beyonce and Jay Z) and Ariana Grande (also featuring Future) additionally make notable moves on the Hot 100. Click here to read the full article.

7. Lana Del Rey and Linkin Park debut new singles on the Hot 100. Both songs preview upcoming albums from the acts. Click here to read the full article.

8. Nirvana's album Nevermind lands its landmark 350th week on the Billboard 200. Mendes, Del Rey, Bebe Rexha and Britney Spears also make news on the chart. Click here to read the full item.

9. On the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart, The Chainsmokers replace themselves at No. 1, as "Paris" dethrones "Closer." Plus, The Weeknd and Martin Solveig add top 10s on the Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart. Click here to read the full article.

10. Following the London finale of the band's farewell The End Tour, Black Sabbath lands at No. 2 on the Hot Tours chart. Click here to read the full piece.

11. Ryan Adams' Prisoner debuts at No. 1 on the Top Rock Albums, Alternative Albums and Americana/Folk Albums charts. Click here to read the full article.

12. With her first solo album of new material since 1999, Alison Krauss' Windy City enters at No. 1 on the Top Country Albums and Bluegrass Albums charts. Meanwhile, Lauren Alaina earns her first top 10 on Country Airplay. Click here to read the full article.

13. On the latest Chart Beat Podcast, Billboard discusses Jon Bellion's "All Time Low" entering the top 10 on the Pop Songs chart after nearly six months and how Capitol Records continues to infuse radio with hits from Katy Perry and Niall Horan. Click here to listen to the podcast.