17 Things You Never Noticed On "Friends" That Will Make You Say, "How Did I Miss That?"
17 Things You Never Noticed On "Friends" That Will Make You Say, "How Did I Miss That?"
We asked members of the BuzzFeed Community to share some of their favorite out-of-the-ordinary things they’ve spotted while watching . Here are some of the best responses: Central Perk once put a potato in the cake display stand. Submitted by jacqipro13 Following the 9/11 attacks, the show paid tribute to the FDNY and NYPD in multiple episodes. Warner Bros. TV Warner Bros. TV Submitted by aimeemillerg In “The One With the Jam,” you can see someone walking behind Monica’s closet. Submitted by annisar3 There’s a background actor who seems to be chewing her coffee. And the award for best "Friends" extra goes to woman who sips coffee then chews it. While some people think that she’s eating something and then takes a sip of coffee (hence the chewing), if you look closely, she definitely doesn’t look like she’s chewing anything prior to taking a drink. Submitted by caseyrackham During Joey’s butt double scene, there’s a moving box behind the crew that has “Monica’s” written on it. Submitted by rosiek401a99856 The actress who plays Estelle previously played a nurse in the episode where Carol gives birth to Ben. Submitted by carleyc4bb90450e Rachel’s last name has an extra “e” in it on her invitation to Ross and Emily’s wedding. Submitted by Sheridan Watson When Monica is opening her wedding presents, the big box goes from wrapped to unwrapped to wrapped in the span of one scene. Warner Bros. TV Warner Bros. TV Warner Bros. TV Submitted by Casey Wombough, Facebook When Pete visits Monica at her work, you can see the padding on the floor that’s there for when she’s supposed to fall down. Warner Bros. TV Warner Bros. TV Submitted by raysour Just go ahead and look at that little “Reserved” sign on their ~usual~ table. Submitted by Brandon Moore In the 10th season, a giant hole is visible in the wall of Joey’s apartment.* *It’s probably visible thanks to the HD switch from 4:3 to 16:9 . (i.e. It wasn’t visible when it originally aired on TV, but it is visible when watching on Netflix or on a widescreen TV. It also explains why more recently people have been noticing the actors’ stand-ins appearing onscreen .) Submitted by Olivia3 In the scene where Chandler is supposed to be wearing only Julia Roberts’ character’s pink thong, you can see that he’s actually wearing boxers or shorts of some kind. Submitted by jessicay440de10fa When Monica turns to get the wedding ring from Rachel, you can see one of her shoes…which appears to be a comfy slipper of some kind. Submitted by adswasey93 When Freddie Prinze Jr. played the manny, you can see that the puppets switch hands during takes. Warner Bros. TV Warner Bros. TV Submitted by e1g3o96 The balloons used during Ross’s bachelor party seem to be blown-up condoms. Submitted by wezzles21 Rachel’s passport has a picture of some other woman. Submitted by SheTalksLikeAJellyBean And finally, Joey and Chandler’s door and Monica and Rachel’s door go from 4 and 5 to 19 and 20. Warner Bros. TV Warner Bros. TV Submitted by adens Want to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts? Follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter ! CORRECTION An earlier version of this post included a moment from “The One With Monica And Chandler’s Wedding” where Chandler’s office door reads “Mike Smith.” The following scene where the joke is explained is not included in the episode available on Netflix. An earlier version of this post also included a mention of Chandler and Joey’s “second microwave,” which is actually a bread maker. These items have been removed from the post.    33 Early-'00s Beauty Products That'll Make You Say,...    Take This Quiz And We'll Tell You Which "The Parent...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.