Dog named Picasso because of his unusual face is adopted
Dog named Picasso because of his unusual face is finally adopted


A little dog with an unusual face is to finally have a chance at life after being shunned for months.

The 10-month-old pooch named Picasso, a corgi pitbull-terrier mix, was born to a backyard breeder, but his face was slightly askew with his nose twisting to the right and jaw twisting to the left.

Many of his teeth also stick into the roof of his mouth because of the abnormality making it much harder to eat compared to other dogs.

It meant that he was never cream of the crop when potential owners would come by to adopt a dog and so he was dumped at a center for unwanted dogs in California.

Scroll down for video

Picasso was born with the facial deformity of a misaligned jaw. The corgi-pit bull mix was surrendered by his backyard breeders and dropped off at a center to be euthanized

Picasso has been taken in by Luvable Dog Rescue and is to undergo surgery to remove some teeth that have pushed into the roof of his mouth

Although the terrier is no oil painting, he has become an internet sensation

Despite his loving nature his breeders dropped him off at Porterville Animal Shelter near Fresno, where dogs go to be euthanized after a few weeks.

Not long afterwards, another dog called Pablo was also dropped off at the center after the family who owned him decided they no longer wanted him.

As luck would have it, Pablo was Picasso's brother.

Both dogs ended up on the list to be euthanized, but they didn't stay there for long.

Picasso and Pablo are brothers and it is hoped that they will now be adopted together too. Picasso is the more outgoing extrovert and Pablo is the more shy and introvert of the two

Picasso was placed in a shelter and was quickly followed by Pablo after his family decided they didn't want him. But the two have developed a special bond and will now not be separated

PIcasso is a messy eater and drinker, but he’s still able to do it on his own

Images of Picasso have gone viral on Facebook and Instagram, with his odd but endearing look

Luvable Dog Rescue based in Oregon ended up visiting the shelter and managed to save both dogs with a view to finding them both a new home.

Liesl Wilhardt, executive director of the rescue, told The Dodo: ‘I was talking to volunteer Shannon Corbit about the dogs we were receiving and just happened to ask her out of the blue if she had any unusual-looking or special needs dogs.

‘She responded, “Well, as a matter of fact, I do!” and she sent me Picasso’s shelter intake photo. He was curled in a dog bed, and looked very sad. His twisted face was startling, but he had soft and gentle eyes, and for me it was love at first sight!’

Liesl said that she felt compelled to take both dogs after hearing that they were brothers.

Picasso will be getting some tooth extractions since he has some teeth poking into parts of his mouth from his offset jaw that the rescue center want to resolve before he is adopted

Picasso is fit and healthy. He will make a great pet once he has undergone dental surgery

Picasso’s appearance is due to the way his teeth are aligned, with the upper jaw twisting sharply to the right and leaving his nose pointing in the wrong direction

Luvable Dog Rescue say they've been slammed with emails from people wanting to adopt the pair, but they're not available until all their medical checks have been completed

‘I could not imagine leaving the brother behind to die, so I checked with Ashley, our Luvable manager, to be sure we had the space for both, and then told Shannon to pull them off the euthanasia list – Luvable would take both boys,’ she said.

Since arriving in Oregon at the rescue center, the dogs have proved to be gentle and sweet with the pair sharing an unbreakable bond.

Liesl says that she hopes the pair will be adopted as a pair.

Although the dogs have different looks and personalities, she says the dogs thrive off one another.

The center has since been inundated with requests to adopt the pair.

Picasso is due to have some surgery in the coming weeks to remove the teeth that are digging into his mouth, but once that is complete it's hoped that both dogs will fine happiness together with a new family.

The rescue center says they will take their time to see which family is the right fit for the pair

Picasso's look is merely cosmetic and his jaw works fine, despite him being a messy eater!