Obama Spox: Allegations of Wiretapping Trump Tower Are 'Simply False'

Obama Spox: Allegations of Wiretapping Trump Tower Are 'Simply False' // // // // // Kevin Lewis, spokesman for former President Barack Obama, denied accusations by President Donald Trump saying the Obama administration wiretapped Trump Tower prior to the election. In a statement, Lewis said: "A cardinal rule of the Obama Administration was that no White House official ever interfered with any independent investigation led by the Department of Justice. As part of that practice, neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered surveillance on any U.S. citizen. Any suggestion otherwise is simply false." The response comes after Trump made his allegations on Twitter Saturday morning. Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my "wires tapped" in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017 The White House is said to be working on its own response to the president's early morning tweets. Trump did not offer any evidence through his tweets as to how he found out this information. The claims could have been in reference to a Breitbart article from Friday saying the Obama administration made two Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court requests in 2016 to monitor Trump communications and a computer server in Trump Tower focusing on possible links with Russian banks. Watch the above video for Fox News correspondent Kristin Fisher's latest report, including remarks from Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) saying if these allegations are true, "It would be the biggest political scandal since Watergate."

Kevin Lewis, spokesman for former President Barack Obama, denied accusations by President Donald Trump saying the Obama administration wiretapped Trump Tower prior to the election.

In a statement, Lewis said:

"A cardinal rule of the Obama Administration was that no White House official ever interfered with any independent investigation led by the Department of Justice. As part of that practice, neither President Obama nor any White House official ever ordered surveillance on any U.S. citizen. Any suggestion otherwise is simply false."

The response comes after Trump made his allegations on Twitter Saturday morning.

Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my "wires tapped" in Trump Tower just before the victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 4, 2017

The White House is said to be working on its own response to the president's early morning tweets.

Trump did not offer any evidence through his tweets as to how he found out this information.

The claims could have been in reference to a Breitbart article from Friday saying the Obama administration made two Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court requests in 2016 to monitor Trump communications and a computer server in Trump Tower focusing on possible links with Russian banks.

Watch the above video for Fox News correspondent Kristin Fisher's latest report, including remarks from Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) saying if these allegations are true, "It would be the biggest political scandal since Watergate."

'You're Being Disingenuous!': Tucker Battles Dem Calling for Sessions Probe

'Revenge of the Losers': Krauthammer Says Obama Left Behind Intel 'Land Mines'

Ryan: Rand Paul Did 'Publicity Stunt' on GOP ObamaCare Replacement