Travellers reveal Europe’s most overrated sights
Travellers reveal Europe’s most overrated sights


Europe undoubtedly boasts some of the world's most awe-inspiring sights and tourist attractions.

But while guide books may praise such masterpieces as the Eiffel Tower and the Vatican, some tourists just aren't impressed.

From overcrowding and high prices to disappointment when confronted with their real size, travellers have taken to a US-based online forum to share what they believe are Europe's most overrated attractions.

Tower of Pisa, Pisa, Italy

'It's just... a not particularly notable tower that happens to be slanted, and not even as slanted as one might think,' said Matthew Gordon, from Toronto, Canada

Italy's famous 14th century leaning tower was in fact designed to be vertical but it began to tilt during construction. Today it attracts more than six million tourists a year.

But Matthew Gordon, from Toronto, Canada, was not impressed. 'I saw it on a tour in 2007,' he wrote on online forum Quora: 'I didn't want to bother with it...The tower was underwhelming.

'It's just... a not particularly notable tower that happens to be slanted, and not even as slanted as one might think. I don't recall being allowed to go inside. It's a one-minute photo op.'

Mona Lisa, Louvre Musem, Paris, France

Leonardo Da Vinci's iconic work of art is one of the most celebrated paintings in the world and is housed in the Louvre, which welcomes 7.3 million visitors in 2016.

But many visitors to the masterpiece are frequently let down by the size of the painting, the glass around it and the hordes of selfie-stick wielding tourists.

If you are struck by awe and rush to the Louvre in order to see the Mona Lisa, be prepared to have your heart shattered into a thousand pieces

Amey Apte, from Houston, US said: 'A very highly-hyped tourist attraction in Paris... It takes a long time to reach the esteemed location of the painting after navigating the near-endless labyrinth of this humongous museum and swarms of excited tourists.'

'What you do not expect,' added Mihnea Nastase, from Brussels, Belgium, 'is the painting being 30 by 21 inches. You don’t expect to almost lose sight of the Gioconda due to the tens of tourists trying to snap a quick picture.'

'The painting is encased in bulletproof glass, with guards on both of its sides who are ready to face the never-ending tourist hordes.

'Even if you can get past the sinister atmosphere and try to enjoy the painting, you will probably be too far away to notice most of its details.'

Nastase finished with a dramatic flourish: 'If you are struck by awe and rush to the Louvre in order to see the Mona Lisa, be prepared to have your heart shattered into a thousand pieces and have them blown away by a gusty wind which will make each piece sink into the sands of time.'

Abbey Road, London

Abbey Road pedestrian crossing in northwest London was once made famous by the Beatles when they were photographed striding across it for the front cover of their 1969 album, Abbey Road.

Despite the road still being a busy thoroughfare for traffic the crossing has become a highly popular stop for photo opportunities - but not everyone is impressed

Danny Williams, who lives in Brazil, complained: 'Abbey road in London is the biggest waste of time for various reasons. It's just a road which you can cross. The crossing was moved so its not even the right place anymore. Its a busy road in London making it a dangerous place to take a picture'.

Stonehenge, Wiltshire

'I know that it's supposed to be pretty amazing since we don't know how it got there, but to be honest- it just looked like a pile of big rocks stacked,' said KM Hesley

Stonehenge and its iconic circle of stones - a masterpiece of engineering - is one of the wonders of the world and the best-known prehistoric monument in Europe.

But KM Hesley doesn't see why. He shared: 'The most overrated tourist destination that I have been to, would have to be Stonehenge.

'I know that it's supposed to be pretty amazing since we don't know how it got there, but to be honest- it just looked like a pile of big rocks stacked (Well, that's what it is). Anyways, I wouldn't really recommend driving out of your way to go see it.

'In England, there are so many other amazing and wonderful sites you can see, but Stonehenge is probably the most overrated.'

The Blarney Stone, Blarney, Ireland

Kissing Ireland’s famous Blarney Stone - an iconic stone is set in a wall of 15th century Blarney Castle - is said to give a person the gift of eloquence and persuasiveness.

James O'Connor, from Connecticut, US, certainly had a lot to say about it: 'Ireland is a fabulously friendly and beautiful country to visit, but this tourist ripoff is over the top goofy.

'After waiting forever to get up into the tower of a mostly demolished Blarney Castle near Cork, in Ireland, you get to lie on your back on the cold stones, crane your neck down through a hole in the floor and kiss a stone on the outer wall polished smooth from millions of previous guests doing the same thing; and you get to pay 12 Euros for the privilege last I knew the price.'

He added: 'So avoid this one. As the Irish would also say, "It's a load of malarkey."'

The Eiffel Tower, Paris. France

Paris's most recognisable monument was in fact supposed to only be a temporary attraction when it was erected in 1889 for the World Fair. It was saved when city officials noted its value as as a radiotelegraph station.

However, many people believe the iron structure is no asset to the city and something of an eyesore. Even famous 19th century author, Guy de Maupassant reportedly ate lunch in the tower's restaurant everyday to avoid looking at it from the outside.

Alexander Martirosian, from Germany, appears to be of the same opinion, stating he disliked the monument for the following reasons: 'It is totally overcrowded, It is ridiculously expensive to go up, [there are] tons of pickpockets and you can see the tower from any building in Paris, the view right in front of it is actually not nice.'

Manneken Pis, Brussels, Belgium

'The statue is just plain and simple,nothing artistic about it. Its highly over rated tourist spot not worth your time,' Kunal Sathe, from Mumbai, India, said

This famous Brussels landmark translates literally to Little Man Pee and is a small bronze fountain sculpture depicting a naked little boy urinating into the fountain's basin.

But Sudarshan Narayanan, from Chennai, India, seems to see no reason for its fame. 'Manneken Pis was clearly the biggest let down for me,' he wrote online, 'I went there expecting a big sculpture/ fountain, but realised to my dismay that the replicas of it that were sold in shops were bigger that the real one ( it was only about 60 cm tall). And I'd never have noticed it had my friend not pointed it out to me.

Kunal Sathe, from Mumbai, India, agreed: 'The statue is just plain and simple,nothing artistic about it. Its highly over rated tourist spot not worth your time and its damn crowded thru the day (sic).'

The Vatican, Rome, Italy

Vatican City in Rome houses St. Peter's Basilica,above, but travellers complained about overcrowding

Vatican City in Rome houses such gems as the Sistine Chapel, St. Peter's Basilica, the Vatican Museums and is home to the pope.

This doesn't mean Erin McLaughlin, from the US, was overawed - but it was her fellow visitors that were to blame.

'The Vatican might be the most frustrating tourist trap I've ever encountered,' she said. 'I wanted nothing more than to stop and wonder over all the interesting things the Church has, er, "acquired" over the years. But the Vatican is not a place where you will be able to stop and look at anything.

'Instead you will be railroaded straight through as though you are cattle going to the slaughter. I couldn't even enjoy the Sistine Chapel due to the sheer number of people and the physical force exerted by the crowd.

'I have never been so terrified of being trampled in my life. I'd go back, if someone convinced them to let in 1/10 as many people as they allow in on an average day - I was not there during high season.'