Mexican politician climbs border wall to prove a point about Trump’s immigration policy
Mexican politician climbs border wall to prove a point about Trump’s immigration policy
Popular videos    Father taken away by US immigration officials while on the school run      Nigel Farage embarrassed by young girl who says he hates foreigners      Riz Ahmed warns Parliament about lack of diversity in TV      The Walking Dead season 7 episode 12: What to expect from 'Say Yes'   A Mexican politician has climbed the fence that separates Mexico from the United States to show President Donald Trump his plan for a border wall is "absurd". Braulio Guerra, who represents the state of Querétaro, said it was "easy to climb the wall, but there are many dangers for our people". "Human rights, principles and dignity are non-negotiable," he added. Mr Trump signed an executive order in January to jump-start the building of the wall, which he said was "so badly needed". Experts later warned its construction could threaten 111 endangered animal species and cause major environmental damage. Mr Guerra said building the wall would be an "absurd and unnecessary waste". Read more Arnold Schwarzenegger quits the Celebrity Apprentice Republicans adopted pro-Russia stance on Ukraine after meeting envoy Trump's likely EU ambassador 'made false statements' to obtain loans Mr Trump has repeatedly asserted that Mexico will foot the bill for the wall. It led to a very public falling out with Mexico's president, Enrique Peña Nieto, who had vowed not to cough up. Following a series of tweets by Mr Trump, Mr Peña Nieto cancelled a planned visit to Washington. Nearly two-thirds of Americans oppose the wall's construction , and 70 per cent believe the US will end up paying for it. Mr Trump has said the price would drop "way down" once he became involved in the planning process. According to a leaked Department of Homeland Security report, the barrier could cost as much as $21bn (£17bn) and take more than three years to construct. Sencillo subir al #Muro pero son muchos los peligros para nuestra gente. Derechos Humanos, principios y dignidad son innegociables #México 🇲🇽 pic.twitter.com/9PExn3RlnV Some 650 miles of fencing already in place has come at a cost of $7bn ($5.6bn) and Mr Trump's plans require extending the barrier into increasingly remote and mountainous regions, which raises the building costs significantly. The proportion of Americans who oppose the wall has increased since election day, from 54 per cent to 62 per cent. More about: Mexico Donald Trump border wall anti-immigration Comments

A Mexican politician has climbed the fence that separates Mexico from the United States to show President Donald Trump his plan for a border wall is "absurd".

Braulio Guerra, who represents the state of Querétaro, said it was "easy to climb the wall, but there are many dangers for our people". "Human rights, principles and dignity are non-negotiable," he added.

Mr Trump signed an executive order in January to jump-start the building of the wall, which he said was "so badly needed".

Experts later warned its construction could threaten 111 endangered animal species and cause major environmental damage.

Mr Guerra said building the wall would be an "absurd and unnecessary waste".

Mr Trump has repeatedly asserted that Mexico will foot the bill for the wall. It led to a very public falling out with Mexico's president, Enrique Peña Nieto, who had vowed not to cough up.

Following a series of tweets by Mr Trump, Mr Peña Nieto cancelled a planned visit to Washington.

Nearly two-thirds of Americans oppose the wall's construction, and 70 per cent believe the US will end up paying for it.

Mr Trump has said the price would drop "way down" once he became involved in the planning process. According to a leaked Department of Homeland Security report, the barrier could cost as much as $21bn (£17bn) and take more than three years to construct.

Sencillo subir al #Muro pero son muchos los peligros para nuestra gente. Derechos Humanos, principios y dignidad son innegociables #México🇲🇽 pic.twitter.com/9PExn3RlnV — Braulio Guerra (@BraulioPRI) March 2, 2017

Some 650 miles of fencing already in place has come at a cost of $7bn ($5.6bn) and Mr Trump's plans require extending the barrier into increasingly remote and mountainous regions, which raises the building costs significantly.

The proportion of Americans who oppose the wall has increased since election day, from 54 per cent to 62 per cent.