Russia to 'Sex And The City' star: We'd be happy to meet you, too
Russia to 'Sex And The City' star: We'd be happy to meet you, too 
Russia to 'Sex And The City' star: Ambassador would be happy to meet you, too Updated 1521 GMT (2321 HKT) March 4, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (20 Videos) Story highlights Actress Sara Jessica Parker wants to meet, secretly or not, with the Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak would be happy to, says Russia's Foreign Ministry Actress Sarah Jessica Parker doesn't have to feel left out of the foreign policy social scene anymore -- the Russian Foreign Ministry tweeted that Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak would be happy to meet with Parker, too.  I had to. Don't know the provenance however whoever you are, thank you.  X, sj A post shared by SJP (@sarahjessicaparker) on #Zakharova : If #SarahJessicaParker desperately wants to meet Russian Ambassador to US -anything is possible. Sergey Ivanovich will be happy pic.twitter.com/GhAmnuQBn5

Story highlights Actress Sara Jessica Parker wants to meet, secretly or not, with the Russian ambassador

Sergey Kislyak would be happy to, says Russia's Foreign Ministry

(CNN) Actress Sarah Jessica Parker doesn't have to feel left out of the foreign policy social scene anymore -- the Russian Foreign Ministry tweeted that Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak would be happy to meet with Parker, too.

The invitation came Friday, from the Ministry's spokeswoman Maria Zakharova, in response to Parker's Instagram post on Thursday. The "Sex And The City" star channeled her character Carrie Bradshaw to joke about the controversy surrounding the meetings between Kislyak and US Attorney General Jeff Sessions as well as the subsequent revelations that more Trump administration advisers have met with the Russian ambassador.

Parker's Instagram post features a scene from the HBO series showing Bradshaw typing on a laptop with a caption, resembling the television script, that reads:

"I couldn't help but wonder... has the Russian ambassador been meeting with everybody except me?"

"I had to. Don't know the provenance however whoever you are, thank you."

I had to. Don't know the provenance however whoever you are, thank you. X, sj A post shared by SJP (@sarahjessicaparker) on Mar 2, 2017 at 1:44pm PST

Read More