This Thrilling Sprint Between A 99-Year Old Who Beats His 92-Year Old Competitor, Proves That Age Is Indeed Just A Number
Get Inspired By This Thrilling Sprint Between A 99-Year Old And His 92-Year Old Competitor
This Thrilling Sprint Between A 99-Year Old Who Beat His 92-Year Old Rival, Proves That Age Is Indeed Just A Number In a photo finish for the ages, It was a close finish. With Hemphill leading half the way, Maybe he didn’t because of his lack of experience compared to his competitor or maybe because of his hip replacement. In fact, Hemphill and Rogers have developed a friendly rivalry since the time they met 4 years ago at a masters track meet. They run in the same heat since they are usually the oldest runners at the meet but compete in different age groups. How did Rogers accomplish this feat? Rogers accredits his success to visualising success in whichever race he partakes.  Although Hemphill is the faster of the two in the in longer distance events, Rogers claims that he has no competition. He just needs to show up, suit up, and finish the race to bag a medal. At 99-years-old, Orville Rogers pushes through to finish his #USATFmasters 60m in 18.00! #USATF  pic.twitter.com/PGMDZfSNwg

In a photo finish for the ages, 99-year-old World War II veteran and pilot Orville Rogers upset his younger competitor Dixon Hemphill, a retired businessman at the aged 92 at the USATF Masters Indoor Track & Field Championship early this month.

It was a close finish. With Hemphill leading half the way, Rogers had to execute a late to surge to nip his competitor at the line by a mere .05 of second ahead of him! Hemphill finished at 18.00, while Roger at 18.05.

sbnation.com

Hemphill went on to state that the finish was so close that he may have even won had he leant forward as he approached the finish line! Maybe he didn’t because of his lack of experience compared to his competitor or maybe because of his hip replacement.

purpose2play.com

In fact, Hemphill and Rogers have developed a friendly rivalry since the time they met 4 years ago at a masters track meet. They run in the same heat since they are usually the oldest runners at the meet but compete in different age groups.

How did Rogers accomplish this feat?

Rogers accredits his success to visualising success in whichever race he partakes. According to him, the objective is to train hard and visualise crossing that finish line with consistency.

runnersworld.com

Although Hemphill is the faster of the two in the in longer distance events, Rogers claims that he has no competition. He just needs to show up, suit up, and finish the race to bag a medal.

At 99-years-old, Orville Rogers pushes through to finish his #USATFmasters 60m in 18.00! #USATF pic.twitter.com/PGMDZfSNwg — USATF (@usatf) February 18, 2017

Don't Miss 2.7 K SHARES 2.4 K SHARES 2.5 K SHARES 1.8 K SHARES 787 SHARES

That’s probably because Rogers has been a stalwart over the last decade at the national masters meet and has set an astounding 13 world records across 13 events—ranging from 60 meters to the 3,000. He even went on to publish his book ‘The Running Man’ earlier this year, in the hope of inspiring people through his own journey.

Why age is never a factor for running or any other activity for that matter

It’s true that your aerobic capacity, muscle mass, and testosterone dip after the age of 30, which is why you may find it physically harder to bounce back or begin your fitness journey once you pass a certain age. The fact that your body is not getting any younger is all the more reason why you need to incorporate an activity such as running or any other resistance training activity into your daily routine.

theptgroup.com

It can offset the risk of losing muscle density, balance and coordination, falling and fracturing your bones, other age-related chronic diseases, and physical dysfunctions in the future states a 2014 review on ageing and exercise, published in the Journal of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons.