10 Promising Jobs In 2017 And The Skills You Need To Get Them
10 Promising Jobs In 2017 And The Skills You Need To Get Them
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Job seekers spend a lot of time playing up relevant experience for the positions they covet. In doing so, they research job requirements and industry trends and look for experience that could get them noticed by  companies on the lookout for talent. To find out what exactly hiring managers and recruiters are looking for, we took a list of jobs that sources have indicated have good growth and healthy salaries and asked LinkedIn – a massive professional network and jobs platform – to let us know what skills a qualified candidate should have. We folded the list of 10 growth jobs and their skills requirements into a slideshow, which you can view below. 10 Growth Jobs And The Skills You Need To Get Them In creating a roster of growth jobs, we looked to a report on promising positions published by Randstad – a globally operating human resources consultancy based in the Netherlands – as well as a similar list provided by LinkedIn. LinkedIn then provided some insight on skills recruiters seek when looking to fill these jobs, as reported by the company’s Talent Solutions arm, which helps employers find qualified candidates. One of the more complex positions we look at is that of Full Stack Developer, in the tech realm. In that role – which pays over $122,000 year in mid-level salary – a software developer must be comfortable working on front-end and back end portions of a given system. According to LinkedIn’s intel, the skills required to perform the valuable tasks of a Full Stack developer are competence in the programming language JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), the database management system MySQL, the cross-platform JavaScript library jQuery and PHP, a scripting language. Another job that’s likely to be in higher demand in the future is Validation Engineer, a role in which an engineer tests automated systems to assure quality functioning. These roles – whose average mid-level salary is about $100,000 – are especially important in facilities that use machinery for manufacturing. To fill these jobs, hiring managers and recruiters are looking for personnel with an understanding of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Corrective and Preventative Action (CAPA), Change Control, and  Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Also in the tech sphere, and a growth job, is Site Reliability Engineer. The job pays a median annual salary of $140,000 and the tasks involved include building out a cloud computing infrastructure and assuring site reliability. Skills needed in the site reliability role include competence with Linux-based operating systems, the Python programming language, Unix shell and command language Bash, Apache web server software and working with Shell Scripting. One of the positions on the list, Healthcare Administrative Assistant, is more complex than it sounds. Given the importance of timely payment and the ins and outs of insurance claims, those who assist healthcare providers have a different set of skills than your average assistant. The job – which pays about $46,000 a year for a mid-level worker in that role – requires an understanding of tasks unique to healthcare, as well as Microsoft Office, Microsoft Excel, Customer Service, Microsoft Word, and PowerPoint. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Job seekers spend a lot of time playing up relevant experience for the positions they covet. In doing so, they research job requirements and industry trends and look for experience that could get them noticed by companies on the lookout for talent.

To find out what exactly hiring managers and recruiters are looking for, we took a list of jobs that sources have indicated have good growth and healthy salaries and asked LinkedIn – a massive professional network and jobs platform – to let us know what skills a qualified candidate should have. We folded the list of 10 growth jobs and their skills requirements into a slideshow, which you can view below.

In creating a roster of growth jobs, we looked to a report on promising positions published by Randstad – a globally operating human resources consultancy based in the Netherlands – as well as a similar list provided by LinkedIn. LinkedIn then provided some insight on skills recruiters seek when looking to fill these jobs, as reported by the company’s Talent Solutions arm, which helps employers find qualified candidates.

One of the more complex positions we look at is that of Full Stack Developer, in the tech realm. In that role – which pays over $122,000 year in mid-level salary – a software developer must be comfortable working on front-end and back end portions of a given system. According to LinkedIn’s intel, the skills required to perform the valuable tasks of a Full Stack developer are competence in the programming language JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), the database management system MySQL, the cross-platform JavaScript library jQuery and PHP, a scripting language.

Another job that’s likely to be in higher demand in the future is Validation Engineer, a role in which an engineer tests automated systems to assure quality functioning. These roles – whose average mid-level salary is about $100,000 – are especially important in facilities that use machinery for manufacturing. To fill these jobs, hiring managers and recruiters are looking for personnel with an understanding of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Corrective and Preventative Action (CAPA), Change Control, and Standard Operating Procedure (SOP).

Also in the tech sphere, and a growth job, is Site Reliability Engineer. The job pays a median annual salary of $140,000 and the tasks involved include building out a cloud computing infrastructure and assuring site reliability. Skills needed in the site reliability role include competence with Linux-based operating systems, the Python programming language, Unix shell and command language Bash, Apache web server software and working with Shell Scripting.

One of the positions on the list, Healthcare Administrative Assistant, is more complex than it sounds. Given the importance of timely payment and the ins and outs of insurance claims, those who assist healthcare providers have a different set of skills than your average assistant. The job – which pays about $46,000 a year for a mid-level worker in that role – requires an understanding of tasks unique to healthcare, as well as Microsoft Office, Microsoft Excel, Customer Service, Microsoft Word, and PowerPoint.

Follow me on Twitter @KarstenStrauss

Follow me on LinkedIn