Tyrod Taylor's Future with Bills Reportedly Unclear Heading into Free Agency
Tyrod Taylor's Future with Bills Reportedly Unclear Heading into Free Agency
Despite owing him a significant bonus on March 11, the Buffalo Bills reportedly have yet to decide on the future of quarterback Tyrod Taylor . According to John Wawrow of the Associated Press, Buffalo hasn't made a decision as of Saturday. He also added that a reported rift between the front office and coaching staff regarding Taylor has been overblown. Jason La Canfora of CBSSports.com reported Friday that the front office prefers veteran options such as Tony Romo or Brian Hoyer, while head coach Sean McDermott is comfortable with Taylor under center. Per ESPN's Adam Schefter , Taylor was recently cleared after undergoing groin surgery and is due $27.5 million on March 11 should Buffalo opt to keep him. Taylor has started 29 games for the Bills over the past two seasons, with the team posting a record of 15-17. He was named to the Pro Bowl in 2015 after throwing for 3,035 yards, 20 touchdowns and six interceptions to go along with 568 rushing yards and four additional touchdowns. The 27-year-old's production was similar in 2016 to the tune of 3,023 passing yards, 17 touchdowns and six interceptions. He also rushed for 580 yards and six scores. Buffalo is in the midst of the NFL 's longest playoff drought at 17 seasons, and there are questions regarding whether Taylor is the right quarterback to end it. Taylor has ranked inside the top 10 in QBR in each of the past two seasons, however, and Buffalo may be hard-pressed to find an upgrade. There is also an intriguing link between Taylor and the Bills' new coaching staff, as offensive coordinator Rick Dennison was Taylor's quarterbacks coach with the Baltimore Ravens in 2014. Should the Bills decide to cut ties with Taylor, 2016 fourth-round pick Cardale Jones is on the roster, and Buffalo holds the No. 10 overall selection in the 2017 NFL draft. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Brett Carlsen/Getty Images

Despite owing him a significant bonus on March 11, the Buffalo Bills reportedly have yet to decide on the future of quarterback Tyrod Taylor.

According to John Wawrow of the Associated Press, Buffalo hasn't made a decision as of Saturday. He also added that a reported rift between the front office and coaching staff regarding Taylor has been overblown.

Jason La Canfora of CBSSports.com reported Friday that the front office prefers veteran options such as Tony Romo or Brian Hoyer, while head coach Sean McDermott is comfortable with Taylor under center.

Per ESPN's Adam Schefter, Taylor was recently cleared after undergoing groin surgery and is due $27.5 million on March 11 should Buffalo opt to keep him.

Taylor has started 29 games for the Bills over the past two seasons, with the team posting a record of 15-17.

He was named to the Pro Bowl in 2015 after throwing for 3,035 yards, 20 touchdowns and six interceptions to go along with 568 rushing yards and four additional touchdowns.

The 27-year-old's production was similar in 2016 to the tune of 3,023 passing yards, 17 touchdowns and six interceptions. He also rushed for 580 yards and six scores.

Buffalo is in the midst of the NFL's longest playoff drought at 17 seasons, and there are questions regarding whether Taylor is the right quarterback to end it.

Taylor has ranked inside the top 10 in QBR in each of the past two seasons, however, and Buffalo may be hard-pressed to find an upgrade.

There is also an intriguing link between Taylor and the Bills' new coaching staff, as offensive coordinator Rick Dennison was Taylor's quarterbacks coach with the Baltimore Ravens in 2014.

Should the Bills decide to cut ties with Taylor, 2016 fourth-round pick Cardale Jones is on the roster, and Buffalo holds the No. 10 overall selection in the 2017 NFL draft.