The eco guide to female-friendly shopping

thical shoppers like me want to think that they always have the sisterhood top of their list when they shop. But in practice I find most can rattle off the five freedoms of animal welfare, but are pretty hazy on enshrined women’s rights, like the right to hold elected and appointed government positions. International Women’s Day gives us the chance to brush up. Adverts suggest that merely showing an image of a famously strong woman, like Beyoncé, to a young girl will give her the step up she needs. In reality mainstream brands would have to focus on their female labour force if they really wanted to make inroads towards gender equality. Few are seriously invested. Sectors like cut flowers, garments, coffee and chocolate are full of women behind the scenes in their supply chains. Unfortunately their systems feminise poverty with workers unable to live decent lives on their wages or timetables. Oxfam’s 2013 study of West African female cocoa farmers working for mainstream brands found they were paid less than men, subject to abuse and unable to obtain loans. Some earned as little as $2 a day. You could argue that it’s too tough to bring equality to supply chains dependent on low-wage female workers. In which case Divine Chocolate , which started 20 years ago as a collaboration between NGOs and Kuapa Kokoo , a Ghanaian farmers’ co-operative, represents an inconvenient truth. Kuapa Kokoo’s has a non-negotiable gender strategy. From land rights to literacy, female empowerment has been embedded in and prioritised by this brand. And there’s a special “empowering women” version of Divine’s best-selling chocolate bar on sale this week so we can all celebrate the anniversary. The big picture: resurrecting the Aral The Aral Sea was once the fourth largest body of inland water on earth, but Soviet-sponsored irrigation of cotton shrank it to a 10th of its size, leaving rusty ships and killing off entire fishing communities. Now intervention from ecologists, hydrologists and financiers has brought water back to part of the Aral, along with 15 species of fish. Photographer Didier Bizet’s series celebrates this ecological resurrection. Well dressed: T-shirts you’ll be proud to wear As we know, getting everyone a fair deal in fashion is easier said than done. But CMMNTY is doing just that. It’s a collective with artists at the heart of its operation. Each item it produces is a limited-edition art piece with the artist sharing in every purchase. CMMNTY aims for a fair deal for everyone involved, with clean and fair production – organic cotton yarn, spun to Gots (Global Organic Textile Standard), assembled in an ethical factory in Portugal. The artworks are also printed on bamboo paper. And sales help to support homeless communities through a partnership with the charity Emmaus. All good stuff, but what will stand out for many fashion collectors is the quality of the shirts and the work of the artists who create the designs: Skuff and Daren Newman are among the collective.  Ethical and green living   Ethical and green living with Lucy Siegle   Women   Feminism   features

Ethical shoppers like me want to think that they always have the sisterhood top of their list when they shop. But in practice I find most can rattle off the five freedoms of animal welfare, but are pretty hazy on enshrined women’s rights, like the right to hold elected and appointed government positions.

Even ethical shoppers are often pretty hazy on women's rights

International Women’s Day gives us the chance to brush up. Adverts suggest that merely showing an image of a famously strong woman, like Beyoncé, to a young girl will give her the step up she needs.

In reality mainstream brands would have to focus on their female labour force if they really wanted to make inroads towards gender equality. Few are seriously invested.

Sectors like cut flowers, garments, coffee and chocolate are full of women behind the scenes in their supply chains. Unfortunately their systems feminise poverty with workers unable to live decent lives on their wages or timetables. Oxfam’s 2013 study of West African female cocoa farmers working for mainstream brands found they were paid less than men, subject to abuse and unable to obtain loans. Some earned as little as $2 a day.

You could argue that it’s too tough to bring equality to supply chains dependent on low-wage female workers. In which case Divine Chocolate, which started 20 years ago as a collaboration between NGOs and Kuapa Kokoo, a Ghanaian farmers’ co-operative, represents an inconvenient truth.

Kuapa Kokoo’s has a non-negotiable gender strategy. From land rights to literacy, female empowerment has been embedded in and prioritised by this brand. And there’s a special “empowering women” version of Divine’s best-selling chocolate bar on sale this week so we can all celebrate the anniversary.

The big picture: resurrecting the Aral

Facebook Twitter Pinterest You shall catch a fishie: Kazakh fishermen. Photograph: Didier Bizet

The Aral Sea was once the fourth largest body of inland water on earth, but Soviet-sponsored irrigation of cotton shrank it to a 10th of its size, leaving rusty ships and killing off entire fishing communities. Now intervention from ecologists, hydrologists and financiers has brought water back to part of the Aral, along with 15 species of fish. Photographer Didier Bizet’s Aral Dreams series celebrates this ecological resurrection.

Well dressed: T-shirts you’ll be proud to wear

Facebook Twitter Pinterest It’s a trip: Daren Newman’s ‘Mushroom’ T-shirt.

As we know, getting everyone a fair deal in fashion is easier said than done. But CMMNTY is doing just that. It’s a collective with artists at the heart of its operation. Each item it produces is a limited-edition art piece with the artist sharing in every purchase. CMMNTY aims for a fair deal for everyone involved, with clean and fair production – organic cotton yarn, spun to Gots (Global Organic Textile Standard), assembled in an ethical factory in Portugal. The artworks are also printed on bamboo paper. And sales help to support homeless communities through a partnership with the charity Emmaus. All good stuff, but what will stand out for many fashion collectors is the quality of the shirts and the work of the artists who create the designs: Skuff and Daren Newman are among the collective.

CMMNTY T-shirt From £50, cmmnty.co



Email Lucy at lucy.siegle@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @lucysiegle