Elderly resident unaccounted for after Dallas condo fire
Elderly resident unaccounted for after Dallas condo fire
Shares                Authorities say an elderly resident of a Dallas condominium complex is unaccounted for after a fire destroyed the four-story structure. Dallas Fire-Rescue spokesman Jason Evans says firefighters Saturday searched for the woman and also contacted her family and friends. Dallas police also issued a critical missing person advisory for the woman, described as having dementia and last seen Friday night. More than 100 firefighters battled the blaze that broke out around 11:30 p.m. Friday in the 60-unit complex. Evans says one person had minor medical issues, exacerbated by the fire and smoke, and was transported to a hospital but was expected to be OK. Firefighters spent Saturday dealing with hot spots. The cause of the fire is under investigation. American Red Cross officials were assisting about 100 displaced residents. Shares                  Elderly resident unaccounted for after Dallas condo fire   Trump flashes anger over Sessions recusal, Russia stories in Oval Office meeting   Veteran music executive and former pop star Tommy Page dies   Malaysia expels North Korean ambassador over Kim probe   Somalia: 110 dead from hunger in past 48 hours in drought   FAA: 27 airspace violations near Trump's Florida estate   'Dobby' the newborn giraffe gets plasma treatment to bolster immune system   5th-grader who gave marketing advice to Tesla is 'really, really excited' it's using her idea   Young couple finds it 'freeing' to travel the country in a converted van   Rare penicillin mold auctioned for more than $14K   4-year-old wrestler runs away from competitor   'Bama star linebacker Foster sent home from NFL combine   Clinton spotted reading about Pence's use of personal email   Judge gives extension to Trump lawyers in travel ban suit   California high-speed rail ready to lay some track   NAACP head: Sessions pledges to enforce civil rights laws   US police agencies with their own DNA databases stir debate   Man accused of making threats against Jewish community centers arrested in St. Louis   DHS considering separating families illegally crossing border   Inside Julianne Hough's beach bachelorette party   Russian government trolls Sarah Jessica Parker on Twitter   Irish nationalists surge in Northern Ireland election   Donald Trump claims Arnold Schwarzenegger isn't 'voluntarily leaving' 'Celebrity Apprentice'   Dying author pens essay with dating profile of husband   Jimmy Buffett-inspired Margaritaville retirement community coming soon

Authorities say an elderly resident of a Dallas condominium complex is unaccounted for after a fire destroyed the four-story structure.

Dallas Fire-Rescue spokesman Jason Evans says firefighters Saturday searched for the woman and also contacted her family and friends. Dallas police also issued a critical missing person advisory for the woman, described as having dementia and last seen Friday night.

More than 100 firefighters battled the blaze that broke out around 11:30 p.m. Friday in the 60-unit complex. Evans says one person had minor medical issues, exacerbated by the fire and smoke, and was transported to a hospital but was expected to be OK.

Firefighters spent Saturday dealing with hot spots. The cause of the fire is under investigation.

American Red Cross officials were assisting about 100 displaced residents.