Man charged with gunpoint carjackings after binmen apprehend suspect
Man charged with gunpoint carjackings after binmen apprehend suspect
man has been charged with 12 offences involving a series of gunpoint carjackings after binmen apprehended a suspect. Humberside Police said they had charged Leon Ndenu in connection with aggravated vehicle-taking incidents in Hull and East Yorkshire on Friday. The 23-year-old, of no fixed address, will appear at Hull Magistrates' Court on Monday to face four counts of robbery, four counts of attempted robbery, two counts of assault with intent to rob, possession of a firearm while committing a schedule one offence and possession of an offensive weapon in a public place. A force spokesman said: "All the charges relate to incidents in Hull and East Yorkshire on Friday 3 March between 3.20am and 7.30am where four cars were stolen. "Inquiries are ongoing to identify a second suspect involved in the incidents." Three binmen were praised for their bravery when they stepped in to tackle a man who was allegedly attempting to steal a car at gunpoint in Baxter Gate, Hedon, on Friday morning. Anyone with information about the incidents is asked to call 101 quoting log 64 of 03/03/17 or contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

A man has been charged with 12 offences involving a series of gunpoint carjackings after binmen apprehended a suspect.

Humberside Police said they had charged Leon Ndenu in connection with aggravated vehicle-taking incidents in Hull and East Yorkshire on Friday.

The 23-year-old, of no fixed address, will appear at Hull Magistrates' Court on Monday to face four counts of robbery, four counts of attempted robbery, two counts of assault with intent to rob, possession of a firearm while committing a schedule one offence and possession of an offensive weapon in a public place.

A force spokesman said: "All the charges relate to incidents in Hull and East Yorkshire on Friday 3 March between 3.20am and 7.30am where four cars were stolen.

"Inquiries are ongoing to identify a second suspect involved in the incidents."

Three binmen were praised for their bravery when they stepped in to tackle a man who was allegedly attempting to steal a car at gunpoint in Baxter Gate, Hedon, on Friday morning.

Anyone with information about the incidents is asked to call 101 quoting log 64 of 03/03/17 or contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.