Rajinikanth's Daughter Aishwarya To Perform Bharatnatyam At UN Headquarters On Women’s Day
Rajinikanth's Daughter Aishwarya To Perform Bharatnatyam At UN Headquarters On Women’s Day
Rajinikanth's Daughter Aishwarya To Perform Bharatnatyam At UN Headquarters On Women’s Day South megastar Rajinikanth is a powerhouse of talent and his daughters Aishwarya and Soundarya have inherited the same talented traits from their daddy dearest. Everyone knows that the two siblings are passionate filmmakers. However, not many know that Aishwarya is also a classical dancer. Back in 2016, Aishwarya was chosen as India's Goodwill Ambassador for the UN Women organisation. One year on, she is all set to give a Bharatanatyam performance at the UN on International Women's Day. Her Hour long performance at the UN headquarters in New York has been scheduled on March 8 and the event is being organised by India's Permanent Mission to UN, and co-sponsored by America Tamil Sangam, a US Tamils association. Talking about the same at an event she said, "It (the event) has gotten me back to serious dancing and will be held on March 8, 2017 coinciding with International Women's Day". BCCL She also said that it's a proud moment for her family. Unfortunately, father Rajinikanth and husband Dhanush won't be able to accompany her to the US owing to their busy schedules. Among others, she would be performing for the song "Maithrim Bhajathey", sung by the late MS Subbulakshmi in the UN decades back, to highlight the need for peace, Aishwarya said. Prakash M Swamy, President, America Tamil Sangam, said Aishwarya was the fird Indian danseuse to give a performance as the others in the past included singers or performers on instruments such as Pandit Ravishankar and musician A R Rahman among others. The invitees include those from the 190-member countries and top Indian diplomats, he added. Aishwarya will also be delivering a talk at Columbia University on Indian Women Filmmakers and will be later felicitated by the Tamil Sangam and Indian Association of Long Island at an event next week, he added.

South megastar Rajinikanth is a powerhouse of talent and his daughters Aishwarya and Soundarya have inherited the same talented traits from their daddy dearest. Everyone knows that the two siblings are passionate filmmakers. However, not many know that Aishwarya is also a classical dancer.

Back in 2016, Aishwarya was chosen as India's Goodwill Ambassador for the UN Women organisation. One year on, she is all set to give a Bharatanatyam performance at the UN on International Women's Day.

BCCL

Her Hour long performance at the UN headquarters in New York has been scheduled on March 8 and the event is being organised by India's Permanent Mission to UN, and co-sponsored by America Tamil Sangam, a US Tamils association.

Talking about the same at an event she said,

"It (the event) has gotten me back to serious dancing and will be held on March 8, 2017 coinciding with International Women's Day".

BCCL

She also said that it's a proud moment for her family. Unfortunately, father Rajinikanth and husband Dhanush won't be able to accompany her to the US owing to their busy schedules.

Among others, she would be performing for the song "Maithrim Bhajathey", sung by the late MS Subbulakshmi in the UN decades back, to highlight the need for peace, Aishwarya said.

Prakash M Swamy, President, America Tamil Sangam, said Aishwarya was the fird Indian danseuse to give a performance as the others in the past included singers or performers on instruments such as Pandit Ravishankar and musician A R Rahman among others.

Twitter

The invitees include those from the 190-member countries and top Indian diplomats, he added. Aishwarya will also be delivering a talk at Columbia University on Indian Women Filmmakers and will be later felicitated by the Tamil Sangam and Indian Association of Long Island at an event next week, he added.

Don't Miss 73.1 K SHARES 47.9 K SHARES 20.9 K SHARES 38.3 K SHARES 35.8 K SHARES

(With inputs from PTI)