Before We Let Wolverine Go Forever, Here Are 12 Quotes That'll Always Be Etched In Our Memories
Before We Let Wolverine Go Forever, Here Are 12 Quotes That'll Always Be Etched In Our Memories
Before We Let Wolverine Go Forever, Here Are 12 Quotes That'll Always Be Etched In Our Memories 17 years ago, we first met Hugh Jackman as Logan or The Wolverine. Reinstating our faith in comic books movies, X-Men won our hearts and since then there has been no looking back. He first gave life to Wolverine in 2000’s The release of is bittersweet for most of the Wolverine fans as this is the final movie, where they’ll get to see Hugh Jackman play the beloved character. It has been an emotional journey and bidding farewell to one of Marvel’s much-loved onscreen superhero is nothing short of painful. While we are still coming to terms with the thought of letting Wolverine go forever, here are 10 dialogues by him that will always remain etched in our memories: 1. You might remember that 'annoyed' is my natural state. - The Wolverine 2. Haven't met anybody who's invulnerable to a well-planted elbow in the groin - X-Men Origins Wolverine 3. I'm the best there is at what I do but what I do best isn't very nice. - The Wolverine 4. Go fuck yourself - X-Men First Class 5. Yeah we're outnumbered, I'm not gonna lie. But we lost Scott, we lost the professor, we don't fight now everything they stood for will die with them. I'm not gonna let that happen, are you? Then we stand together, X-Men, all of us. - X-Men 3 6. Sometimes, when you cage the beast, the beast gets angry. - X-Men 3 7. You have ten words, ten. How many words was that? - The Wolverine.

17 years ago, we first met Hugh Jackman as Logan or The Wolverine. Reinstating our faith in comic books movies, X-Men won our hearts and since then there has been no looking back. He first gave life to Wolverine in 2000’s X-Men.

wdog.net

The release of Logan is bittersweet for most of the Wolverine fans as this is the final movie, where they’ll get to see Hugh Jackman play the beloved character. It has been an emotional journey and bidding farewell to one of Marvel’s much-loved onscreen superhero is nothing short of painful.

While we are still coming to terms with the thought of letting Wolverine go forever, here are 10 dialogues by him that will always remain etched in our memories:

1. You might remember that 'annoyed' is my natural state. - The Wolverine

sify.com

2. Haven't met anybody who's invulnerable to a well-planted elbow in the groin - X-Men Origins Wolverine

Cinema Blend

3. I'm the best there is at what I do but what I do best isn't very nice. - The Wolverine

the wrap

4. Go fuck yourself - X-Men First Class

science fiction

5. Yeah we're outnumbered, I'm not gonna lie. But we lost Scott, we lost the professor, we don't fight now everything they stood for will die with them. I'm not gonna let that happen, are you? Then we stand together, X-Men, all of us. - X-Men 3

wallpapercave

6. Sometimes, when you cage the beast, the beast gets angry. - X-Men 3

Red carpet refs

7. You have ten words, ten. How many words was that? - The Wolverine.

nerdist.in

Don't Miss 7.4 K SHARES 13.6 K SHARES 73.1 K SHARES 48.1 K SHARES 21.7 K SHARES

8. What kind of monster are you, The Wolverine - The Wolverine

maximamorelia

9. Nature made me a freak. Man made me a weapon. And God made it last too long - Logan

screen rant

10. My whole life, I felt like an animal. I ignored my instincts. I ignored what I really am. And that won't ever happen again - X-Men Origins

Daily Capital

11. Patience isn’t exactly my strongest suit - X-Men: Days of Future Past

tumblr

12. You lost your money. You keep this up, you’ll lose something else.” – X-Men

pc wall art