Karan Johar Becomes A Father To Twins, Irrfan Khan Gets Mobbed In Gangtok & More From Ent
Karan Johar Becomes A Father To Twins, Irrfan Khan Gets Mobbed In Gangtok & More From Ent
Karan Johar Becomes A Father To Twins, Irrfan Khan Gets Mobbed In Gangtok & More From Ent 1. Congratulations Are In Order! Karan Johar Becomes A Father To Twins Via Surrogacy The twins were born at Masrani Hospital in Andheri on February 7 via surrogacy. This is the same hospital where KJo’s best friend Shah Rukh’s third baby AbRam was also born via surrogacy. According to TOI, the births were registered with public health department on Friday, Feb 24th. 2. Alia Bhatt Beams With Joy Over KJo's Twins - Roohi & Yash, Calls Them Her Younger Brother & Sister Alia took to Twitter to congratulate Karan. She wrote, “Finally I can say I have a younger brother AND sister!!!!!! So so so happy ️ ️ ️ soo much love to give uff bursting with joy!!!!!” 3. Imitating Oscars, A Theatre In London Pranked 'Moonlight' Audience By Playing 'La La Land'! As soon as the audience - who had paid to watch Moonlight - had taken their seats, the theatre played La La Land instead. Even though it was only for a few seconds, it was played long enough to prank the watchers, reports Vulture. 4. Rajinikanth's Daughter Aishwarya To Perform Bharatnatyam At UN Headquarters On Women’s Day Her Hour long performance at the UN headquarters in New York has been scheduled on March 8 and the event is being organised by India's Permanent Mission to UN, and co-sponsored by America Tamil Sangam, a US Tamils association. 5. Forget The Three Khans, Irrfan Khan Witnessed His Own Stardom When He Got Mobbed In Gangtok! An awe-struck Irrfan Khan was overwhelmed with such a response. According to a report in Bollywood Hungama, he said, ”The welcome in Gangtok was fantastic. In a place where access to movies is very limited and then to see such response was great. Much like the place, the people of Gangtok are wonderful and beautiful.”

1. Congratulations Are In Order! Karan Johar Becomes A Father To Twins Via Surrogacy

getty

The twins were born at Masrani Hospital in Andheri on February 7 via surrogacy. This is the same hospital where KJo’s best friend Shah Rukh’s third baby AbRam was also born via surrogacy. According to TOI, the births were registered with public health department on Friday, Feb 24th.

2. Alia Bhatt Beams With Joy Over KJo's Twins - Roohi & Yash, Calls Them Her Younger Brother & Sister

Alia took to Twitter to congratulate Karan. She wrote, “Finally I can say I have a younger brother AND sister!!!!!! So so so happy❤️❤️❤️ soo much love to give uff bursting with joy!!!!!”

3. Imitating Oscars, A Theatre In London Pranked 'Moonlight' Audience By Playing 'La La Land'!

twitter

As soon as the audience - who had paid to watch Moonlight - had taken their seats, the theatre played La La Land instead. Even though it was only for a few seconds, it was played long enough to prank the watchers, reports Vulture.

4. Rajinikanth's Daughter Aishwarya To Perform Bharatnatyam At UN Headquarters On Women’s Day

BCCL

Her Hour long performance at the UN headquarters in New York has been scheduled on March 8 and the event is being organised by India's Permanent Mission to UN, and co-sponsored by America Tamil Sangam, a US Tamils association.

5. Forget The Three Khans, Irrfan Khan Witnessed His Own Stardom When He Got Mobbed In Gangtok!

An awe-struck Irrfan Khan was overwhelmed with such a response. According to a report in Bollywood Hungama, he said, ”The welcome in Gangtok was fantastic. In a place where access to movies is very limited and then to see such response was great. Much like the place, the people of Gangtok are wonderful and beautiful.”