Baked Chicken Tenders Recipe

easy Baked Mustard-Herb Chicken Legs By Mark Bittman 45 minutes Hot Cheese Olives By Julia Reed 1 hour 15 minutes easy Thai-Peanut Chicken Wings By Mark Bittman 45 minutes Stuffed Jalapeños By Sam Sifton 40 minutes Hanjan Chicken Wings By The New York Times 45 minutes Chicken Wings With Guajillo Anchovy Sauce By Jeff Gordinier Trending Oven-Roasted Chicken Shawarma By Sam Sifton 45 minutes, plus marinating Trending Sole Meunière By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Butternut Squash, Pecans and Currants By Sam Sifton 30 minutes Trending Vegetarian Mapo Tofu By David Tanis 30 minutes Trending Ricotta and Spinach Frittata With Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes Trending Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes Craig Lee for The New York Times Chicken tenders may be known for being a kid favorite, but it's hard to find an adult who doesn't enjoy them just as much. And there's a lot to love when a crisp, golden brown coating meets juicy, tender chicken strips. This weeknight version strays slightly from the traditional deep-fried recipe: It can be pan-fried (see tip below), but shines when baked in the oven. It's also not too spicy, but feel free to add cayenne, crushed red-pepper flakes or fennel seed, or ground cumin to the flour mixture for a little punch. Proper chicken tenders, or the smaller muscle underneath the breast, can be hard to find, but boneless, skinless breasts — from chicken, or even turkey — sliced into thin strips are an excellent stand-in. This version is paired with an herbed yogurt dip, dotted with chives, parsley and dill, but it can also be served with ketchup.  American , Bread Crumb , Chicken Breast , Chive , Dill , Paprika , Parsley , Yogurt  Ingredients For the dip:                      For the chicken:                        Nutritional analysis per serving (4 servings)    Preparation Make the dip: Mix yogurt, chives, parsley, dill, lemon juice and garlic in a small bowl; season with salt and plenty of pepper. Set aside. Prepare the chicken: Cut chicken breasts lengthwise into about 1 1/4-inch-wide strips. Season with salt and pepper, and set aside. Mix together flour and paprika in a medium bowl, and season with salt and pepper. Place eggs in a large bowl and whisk with 1 teaspoon water. Season with salt and pepper. Put bread crumbs in a large bowl or shallow baking dish, and season with salt and pepper. Working with few pieces at a time, toss the chicken in the flour mixture, making sure it’s evenly coated. Shake off excess flour, and dip into egg wash. Shake off any excess. Dip chicken into bread crumb mixture a few pieces at a time, pressing to adhere as many bread crumbs as possible. Shake off any excess, and set chicken aside on a large plate. Heat oven to 450 degrees, and place breaded chicken strips on a foil- or parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle with olive oil, and bake until one side is beginning to brown, 6 to 8 minutes. Using tongs or a spatula, flip chicken and continue to cook until the other side is golden brown and crisp, another 6 to 8 minutes. Serve with herbed yogurt dip. Tip   Linzer Cookies By Alison Roman Cinnamon Rolls By Alison Roman Basic Sugar Cookies By Alison Roman Honey-Roasted Brussels Sprouts With Harissa and Lemon Relish By Alison Roman 25 to 30 minutes Chez Panisse Meyer Lemon Meringue Pie By Leslie Land About 4 hours Fish With Toasted Almonds By Nigella Lawson 20 minutes Three-Cup Chicken By Sam Sifton 30 minutes Cabbage and Potato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours Cooking Guide Basic Knife Skills By Julia Moskin Cooking Guide How to Make Stuffing By Melissa Clark Cooking Guide How to Roast a Turkey By Melissa Clark Cooking Guide How to Make Steak By Melissa Clark

Let's Get Started

Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below.