Arnold Schwarzenegger tells Donald Trump to hire a fact checker as Celebrity Apprentice spat continues
Arnold Schwarzenegger tells Donald Trump to hire a fact checker as Celebrity Apprentice spat continues
rnold Schwarzenegger told Donald Trump to hire a "new joke writer and a fact checker" after the US president disputed that the actor quit as host of The New Celebrity Apprentice claiming the actor was leaving involuntarily after drawing few viewers. The US president tweeted on Saturday that his replacement at the reality television show is to blame for its poor ratings and not, as Arnold Schwarzenegger said, Mr Trump's continued involvement with the show . "Arnold Schwarzenegger isn't voluntarily leaving the Apprentice," Mr Trump wrote an hour after posting a series of explosive tweets alleging Barack Obama orchestrated illegal Watergate-style bugging of Trump Tower . You should think about hiring a new joke writer and a fact checker. https://t.co/SvAjuPdHfa "He was fired by his bad (pathetic) ratings, not by me. Sad end to great show." he actor turned politician turned television host replied to the Tweet later in the day: "You should think about hiring a new joke writer and a fact checker." Schwarzenegger had announced on Friday that he would not return for a second season of the NBC show. He blamed Mr Trump, an executive producer and former host of the show, for low ratings, describing the president's involvement as "baggage." chwarzenegger, who replaced Mr Trump as host of the show while the president remained its executive producer, announced Friday he's through. "With Trump being involved in the show, people have a bad taste and don't want to participate as a spectator or as a sponsor or in any other way support the show," he said in an interview with the Empire website. "It's a very divisive period now, and I think this show got caught up in all that division." BC, a unit of Comcast Corp on Friday, did not comment on Schwarzenegger's decision not to return for another season, or on the show's future. chwarzenegger, a movie star and former California governor, took over as host of Celebrity Apprentice last year. His first season premiered in January, and was watched by around 4 million to 5 million viewers . After the actor's debut, Mr Trump took to Twitter to report the show had been swamped "in comparison to the ratings machine. Wow, the ratings are in and Arnold Schwarzenegger got "swamped" (or destroyed) by comparison to the ratings machine, DJT. So much for.... chwarzenegger shot back on social media that he hoped Mr Trump would work for the American people as aggressively as he did for his ratings. The actor, also a Republican, did not endorse Mr Trump and said during last fall's campaign that he would not vote for him. When the show ended its season last month, Mr Trump tweeted that Schwarzenegger "did a really bad job as governor of California and even worse on The Apprentice, but at least he tried hard."

Arnold Schwarzenegger told Donald Trump to hire a "new joke writer and a fact checker" after the US president disputed that the actor quit as host of The New Celebrity Apprentice claiming the actor was leaving involuntarily after drawing few viewers.

The US president tweeted on Saturday that his replacement at the reality television show is to blame for its poor ratings and not, as Arnold Schwarzenegger said, Mr Trump's continued involvement with the show.

"Arnold Schwarzenegger isn't voluntarily leaving the Apprentice," Mr Trump wrote an hour after posting a series of explosive tweets alleging Barack Obama orchestrated illegal Watergate-style bugging of Trump Tower.