Clapper Denies Trump Wiretap as White House Demands a Probe
Clapper Denies Trump Wiretap as White House Demands a Probe
Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said on Sunday there was no wiretap activity directed against President Donald Trump or his campaign by the Obama administration, as Trump suggested on Saturday, and no court order allowing it. “I can deny it,” Clapper, weeks removed from serving in the federal government, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday when asked whether he could confirm or deny a court order allowing for eavesdropping at Trump Tower in New York. Clapper’s comments contradicted contentions made by Trump in a series of tweets on Saturday that President Barack Obama had had the Republican’s “wires tapped in Trump Tower just before” the 2016 presidential election. Trump’s call to expand the terms of the Congressional investigation came two days after his top law enforcement officer, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, removed himself from investigations of Russian interference with the 2016 election and contacts with associates of Trump related to the campaign. Democrats, including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, said the White House is attempting to deflect from allegations that close Trump associates had unexplained contacts with Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government last year. For a QuickTake on the Trump-Russia saga, click here. In a statement on Sunday, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said the president “is requesting that as part of their investigation into Russian activity, the congressional intelligence committees exercise their oversight authority to determine whether executive branch investigative powers were abused in 2016.” Neither the White House nor the president will comment further “until such oversight is conducted,” Spicer said. Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, a Republican member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said on “Fox News Sunday” that the matter will be part of the ongoing inquiry. Asked whether he’s seen any evidence that the Obama administration wiretapped Trump or anyone else in Trump Tower during the campaign, Cotton said, “I’ve seen no evidence of the allegations we’ve seen in the media.” Another White House aided, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, would not say on ABC’s “This Week” program on Sunday whether the contentions about the wire tapping -- which an Obama spokesman has denied -- were true. But she said it would represent “the greatest abuse of power and overreach” if they were. Trump relied on reports in conservative media, including Breitbart News, according to a person familiar with the situation. ‘Take a Deep Breath’ Sanders, a deputy press secretary, was the highest ranking official from the White House to appear on Sunday political talk shows. “He’s going off of information that he’s seen that has led him to believe that this is a very real potential,” she said of the wiretapping contentions. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a former Republican presidential candidate and member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said if the Trump’s allegations aren’t true, “then, obviously, he’ll have to explain what he meant.’’ Speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, Rubio urged all involved to “take a deep breath’’ and let the work of the committee proceed to preparing a report with the facts. Pelosi, also on CNN, termed Trump’s contentions about Obama, and the call for a Congressional inquiry, an attempt at deflection. “Rather than Russia, we’re talking about, did President Obama do thus and so,” Pelosi said. “It’s called a wrap-up smear,” Pelosi said of the wiretapping claims. “You make up something. Then you have the press write about it. And then you say, everybody is writing about this charge. It’s a tool of an authoritarian.”

Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said on Sunday there was no wiretap activity directed against President Donald Trump or his campaign by the Obama administration, as Trump suggested on Saturday, and no court order allowing it.

“I can deny it,” Clapper, weeks removed from serving in the federal government, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday when asked whether he could confirm or deny a court order allowing for eavesdropping at Trump Tower in New York.

Clapper’s comments contradicted contentions made by Trump in a series of tweets on Saturday that President Barack Obama had had the Republican’s “wires tapped in Trump Tower just before” the 2016 presidential election.

Trump’s call to expand the terms of the Congressional investigation came two days after his top law enforcement officer, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, removed himself from investigations of Russian interference with the 2016 election and contacts with associates of Trump related to the campaign.

Democrats, including House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, said the White House is attempting to deflect from allegations that close Trump associates had unexplained contacts with Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government last year.

For a QuickTake on the Trump-Russia saga, click here.

In a statement on Sunday, White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said the president “is requesting that as part of their investigation into Russian activity, the congressional intelligence committees exercise their oversight authority to determine whether executive branch investigative powers were abused in 2016.”

Neither the White House nor the president will comment further “until such oversight is conducted,” Spicer said.

Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, a Republican member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said on “Fox News Sunday” that the matter will be part of the ongoing inquiry. Asked whether he’s seen any evidence that the Obama administration wiretapped Trump or anyone else in Trump Tower during the campaign, Cotton said, “I’ve seen no evidence of the allegations we’ve seen in the media.”

Another White House aided, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, would not say on ABC’s “This Week” program on Sunday whether the contentions about the wire tapping -- which an Obama spokesman has denied -- were true. But she said it would represent “the greatest abuse of power and overreach” if they were.

Trump relied on reports in conservative media, including Breitbart News, according to a person familiar with the situation.

‘Take a Deep Breath’

Sanders, a deputy press secretary, was the highest ranking official from the White House to appear on Sunday political talk shows. “He’s going off of information that he’s seen that has led him to believe that this is a very real potential,” she said of the wiretapping contentions.

Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a former Republican presidential candidate and member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said if the Trump’s allegations aren’t true, “then, obviously, he’ll have to explain what he meant.’’

Speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, Rubio urged all involved to “take a deep breath’’ and let the work of the committee proceed to preparing a report with the facts.

Pelosi, also on CNN, termed Trump’s contentions about Obama, and the call for a Congressional inquiry, an attempt at deflection. “Rather than Russia, we’re talking about, did President Obama do thus and so,” Pelosi said.

“It’s called a wrap-up smear,” Pelosi said of the wiretapping claims. “You make up something. Then you have the press write about it. And then you say, everybody is writing about this charge. It’s a tool of an authoritarian.”