Men 'bullied' out of generous divorce settlements by breadwinning wives
Men 'bullied' out of generous divorce settlements by breadwinning wives
en are being awarded more generous divorce payouts with some also receiving ongoing payments from their ex-wives, lawyers say. The arrangement was almost unheard of a decade ago, but women are now the breadwinner in an increasing number of families. New figures from lawyers show that up to five per cent of divorce cases now include a maintenance agreement involving payments from a wife to her ex-husband. here were 111,169 divorces in 2014, suggesting up to 5,000 men received such settlements. But lawyers believe many more husbands are missing out on money they are entitled to as their wives “bully” them out of making a claim. ames Brown, a partner at family law firm Hall Brown, said men feel too proud to accept ongoing payments and are worried it might look unmanly to friends and colleagues. “Even men who object to supporting their ex-wives tend to accept that they may have to, especially if they are their household’s main breadwinner," he said. "A lot of wives in the same position, though, consider the very notion of paying maintenance to their ex-husband unfair. “Furthermore, some have tried to pressure men into not claiming support by arguing that ‘real men’ wouldn’t do such a thing." awyers also said that men face an battle to convince courts to settle in their favour. “We have had husbands ordered to pay wives what was described as ‘nominal’ maintenance, even though the women earned more than they did," Mr Brown, whose firm handles 260 divorce cases a year, added. Shlomit Glaser, a principal solicitor at law firm Glaser Jones, said that in one case she had to fight to convince a court that her client - a man in his late 60s - would not be able to pay generous maintenance to his ex-wife. "I think there is an outdated approach. It's not a politically correct thing to say, but you will have an uphill struggle sometimes to convince courts to settle in favour of men," she said. The British court system has historically favoured ongoing maintenance agreements which require husbands to support their wives indefinitely more than other countries, which tend to favour cash settlements and shorter-term arrangements. However, this is changing. According to the Institute of Public Policy Research, one in three mothers is now the highest earner in her family. arlier this month crossbench peer Baroness Deech said that judges were being "old fashioned" and "over-chivalrous" when awarding these arrangements. She cited a recent settlement in which divorcee Maria Mills, 51, was awarded a higher monthly payment from her ex-husband after losing her money by investing "unwisely" in property, 15 years after they split. She told the Telegraph that her bill was "based on equality, regardless of gender". A court of appeal ruling in February 2015 is also being used by some judges to argue that women should only receive maintenance for the amount of time it takes for them to retrain or get a new job. owever, Frances Hughes, a senior partner at law firm Hughes Fowler Carruthers, said that changes could penalise men, who will not be awarded the maintenance arrangements previously enjoyed by women. "We are currently different from anywhere else in the world in that we have strong spousal support. A lot of countries think we are very old-fashioned and paternalistic. "It is not likely that men will reach the levels of spousal support that women have previously had as maintenance awards are diminishing in terms of length and amount," she said. A series of high-profile divorces have settled in the past ten years with famous women increasingly making substantial payouts to their ex-husbands. In 2008 TV star Anne Robinson settled her divorce from her husband of 27 years, paying him £20m.

Lawyers also said that men face an battle to convince courts to settle in their favour.

“We have had husbands ordered to pay wives what was described as ‘nominal’ maintenance, even though the women earned more than they did," Mr Brown, whose firm handles 260 divorce cases a year, added.

Shlomit Glaser, a principal solicitor at law firm Glaser Jones, said that in one case she had to fight to convince a court that her client - a man in his late 60s - would not be able to pay generous maintenance to his ex-wife.

"I think there is an outdated approach. It's not a politically correct thing to say, but you will have an uphill struggle sometimes to convince courts to settle in favour of men," she said.

The British court system has historically favoured ongoing maintenance agreements which require husbands to support their wives indefinitely more than other countries, which tend to favour cash settlements and shorter-term arrangements.

However, this is changing. According to the Institute of Public Policy Research, one in three mothers is now the highest earner in her family.