Watch Octavia Spencer Mock 'Hidden Fences' on 'Saturday Night Live'
Watch Octavia Spencer Mock 'Hidden Fences' on 'Saturday Night Live'
Watch Octavia Spencer Mock 'Hidden Fences' on 'Saturday Night Live'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Octavia Spencer is having a good year. The Academy Award-winner appeared in this year's Best Animated FilmÂ , and Spencer was nominated for another Oscar -- and Golden GlobeÂ andÂ Screen Actors Guild award -- for Best Supporting Actress after her amazing performance in theÂ dramaÂ . The math-and-space movie hasÂ done extremely well, critically and financially -- so far, it'sÂ grossed more than $180 million at the domestic boxÂ office, and the cast snagged a SAG award for best film ensemble. And now, Spencer is enjoying her first hosting gig onÂ . In her March 4 opening monologue, Spencer knocks an opt-repeated gaffe heard during this awards season: "Hidden Fences," an awkward conflation of two movies with mostly African-American casts. It's understandable, Spencer suggests, as including Best Picture winner ,Â "there were three black movies at the Oscars this year. And that's a lot for America." But if it's going to happen, she says, she'd like to profit from it. That's why, Spencer jokes, she's produced "Hidden Fence Light." She explains, "It's the story of three black women who send an introspective gay boy to build a fence on the moon." Watch the video below. Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Octavia Spencer is having a good year. The Academy Award-winner appeared in this year's Best Animated FilmÂ Zootopia, and Spencer was nominated for another Oscar -- and Golden GlobeÂ andÂ Screen Actors Guild award -- for Best Supporting Actress after her amazing performance in theÂ dramaÂ Hidden Figures.

The math-and-space movie hasÂ done extremely well, critically and financially -- so far, it'sÂ grossed more than $180 million at the domestic boxÂ office, and the cast snagged a SAG award for best film ensemble.

And now, Spencer is enjoying her first hosting gig onÂ Saturday Night Live.

In her March 4 opening monologue, Spencer knocks an opt-repeated gaffe heard during this awards season: "Hidden Fences," an awkward conflation of two movies with mostly African-American casts.

It's understandable, Spencer suggests, as including Best Picture winner Moonlight,Â "there were three black movies at the Oscars this year. And that's a lot for America." But if it's going to happen, she says, she'd like to profit from it. That's why, Spencer jokes, she's produced "Hidden Fence Light."

She explains, "It's the story of three black women who send an introspective gay boy to build a fence on the moon." Watch the video below.

Â