Barbra Streisand Tweets That Trump is Making Her Gain Weight
Barbra Streisand Tweets That Trump is Making Her Gain Weight
Barbra Streisand Tweets That Trump is Making Her Gain Weight  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Barbra Streisand says Donald Trump is making her gain weight. The singer tweeted on Saturday (March 5) that news involving Trump affects her morning routine. "Donald Trump is making me gain weight. I start the day with liquids, but after the morning news, I eat pancakes smothered in maple syrup!" the singer tweeted on Saturday.  Streisand's comments come after Trump recently claims the Barack Obama administration wire tapped into his Trump Tower phones during the 2016 Presidential elections. The White House asked Congress to investigate the matter on Sunday. "Trump just accused Obama of tapping his phones. Seriously crazy times," added Streisand. "Time for more pancakes." Donald Trump is making me gain weight. I start the day with liquids, but after the morning news, I eat pancakes smothered in maple syrup! Trump just accused Obama of tapping his phones. Seriously crazy times. Time for more pancakes.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Barbra Streisand attends the SiriusXM's 'Town Hall' with Barbra Streisand: 'Town Hall' to air on Streisand's SiriusXM Channel 'The Barbra Streisand Channel' at Winter Garden Theatre on Aug. 26, 2016 in New York City.

Barbra Streisand says Donald Trump is making her gain weight. The singer tweeted on Saturday (March 5) that news involving Trump affects her morning routine.

"Donald Trump is making me gain weight. I start the day with liquids, but after the morning news, I eat pancakes smothered in maple syrup!" the singer tweeted on Saturday.

Streisand's comments come after Trump recently claims the Barack Obama administration wire tapped into his Trump Tower phones during the 2016 Presidential elections. The White House asked Congress to investigate the matter on Sunday.

"Trump just accused Obama of tapping his phones. Seriously crazy times," added Streisand. "Time for more pancakes."

Donald Trump is making me gain weight. I start the day with liquids, but after the morning news, I eat pancakes smothered in maple syrup! — Barbra Streisand (@BarbraStreisand) March 5, 2017

Trump just accused Obama of tapping his phones. Seriously crazy times. Time for more pancakes. — Barbra Streisand (@BarbraStreisand) March 5, 2017

This article originally appeared in THR.com.