Philip Green: Arcadia will double pension fund contributions

Sir Philip Green has agreed a deal to pump as much as £50m a year into the pension fund behind his fashion business, Arcadia, to plug a growing deficit, just days after reaching a settlement over the BHS pension scandal. Arcadia, which controls Topshop , Dorothy Perkins and Miss Selfridge, will double payments into its pension scheme from £25m a year to £50m this year, potentially heading off another pensions controversy. Arcadia’s pension deficit was measured at £190m in the company’s accounts for the year to August 2015, but is understood to have grown substantially since then. The increase in contributions from Arcadia has been agreed with the pensions trustees. The Pensions Regulator has also been made aware of the deal, although it does not have to sign off the agreement. The length of the recovery plan for the pension scheme and how the level payment may change over the years has not been disclosed, although the length of the plan is understood to be less than 10 years. Green said: “The company has signed a new contribution arrangement with trustees and has already started payment of an additional contribution over and above the previous £25m a year.” Green and the Pensions Regulator announced last week that the billionaire tycoon had agreed to pay £363m to help fill the hole in the BHS pension scheme . BHS collapsed last April , leading to the loss of 11,000 jobs and leaving a pension deficit assessed at the most pessimistic measure as £571m. Green owned BHS for 15 years until he sold it to Dominic Chappell, a former bankrupt, for just £1 in March 2015. During his ownership, the Green family and other shareholders collected at least £580m from BHS in dividends, rental payments and interest on loans. BHS fell into administration just 13 months after Green sold it. A high-profile parliamentary investigation into the demise of BHS concluded that the company had been systematically plundered by its owners and described the hole in the pension fund as “the unacceptable face of capitalism”. MPs voted in favour of stripping Green of his knighthood. However, the settlement for the BHS pension scheme and the increased payment into the Arcadia scheme will help Green to keep his honour. Green apologised to BHS pensioners for the scandal and called it a “sorry chapter”. The Pensions Regulator is continuing with legal proceedings against Chappell and his company Retail Acquisitions. Chappell has pledged to fight the legal action, which is designed to force him to pay as much a £17m into the failed retailer’s pension scheme. The ongoing enforcement action shows BHS scandal is far more over. The collapse of the retailer is still being investigated by the Insolvency Service, which could recommend that former directors of BHS are banned from being company directors in Britain. The Financial Reporting Council is also looking into the collapse, while the Serious Fraud Office is also considering whether to launch a formal investigation.  Pensions   Sir Philip Green   Topshop   Retail industry

Sir Philip Green has agreed a deal to pump as much as £50m a year into the pension fund behind his fashion business, Arcadia, to plug a growing deficit, just days after reaching a settlement over the BHS pension scandal.

Arcadia, which controls Topshop, Dorothy Perkins and Miss Selfridge, will double payments into its pension scheme from £25m a year to £50m this year, potentially heading off another pensions controversy.

Arcadia’s pension deficit was measured at £190m in the company’s accounts for the year to August 2015, but is understood to have grown substantially since then.

The increase in contributions from Arcadia has been agreed with the pensions trustees. The Pensions Regulator has also been made aware of the deal, although it does not have to sign off the agreement.

The length of the recovery plan for the pension scheme and how the level payment may change over the years has not been disclosed, although the length of the plan is understood to be less than 10 years.



Green said: “The company has signed a new contribution arrangement with trustees and has already started payment of an additional contribution over and above the previous £25m a year.”

Green and the Pensions Regulator announced last week that the billionaire tycoon had agreed to pay £363m to help fill the hole in the BHS pension scheme. BHS collapsed last April, leading to the loss of 11,000 jobs and leaving a pension deficit assessed at the most pessimistic measure as £571m.

Green owned BHS for 15 years until he sold it to Dominic Chappell, a former bankrupt, for just £1 in March 2015. During his ownership, the Green family and other shareholders collected at least £580m from BHS in dividends, rental payments and interest on loans. BHS fell into administration just 13 months after Green sold it.

A high-profile parliamentary investigation into the demise of BHS concluded that the company had been systematically plundered by its owners and described the hole in the pension fund as “the unacceptable face of capitalism”.

MPs voted in favour of stripping Green of his knighthood. However, the settlement for the BHS pension scheme and the increased payment into the Arcadia scheme will help Green to keep his honour.

Green apologised to BHS pensioners for the scandal and called it a “sorry chapter”.

The Pensions Regulator is continuing with legal proceedings against Chappell and his company Retail Acquisitions.

Chappell has pledged to fight the legal action, which is designed to force him to pay as much a £17m into the failed retailer’s pension scheme.

The ongoing enforcement action shows BHS scandal is far more over. The collapse of the retailer is still being investigated by the Insolvency Service, which could recommend that former directors of BHS are banned from being company directors in Britain. The Financial Reporting Council is also looking into the collapse, while the Serious Fraud Office is also considering whether to launch a formal investigation.