NFL Combine 2017: Full Sunday Schedule and Predictions for Top Prospects
NFL Combine 2017: Full Sunday Schedule and Predictions for Top Prospects
On Sunday, the defensive linemen and linebackers will take the field for their workouts, including the 40-yard dash. You can see the schedule below: While the defensive linemen and linebackers go through their on-field work, the defensive backs will go through the p "Really don’t listen to it," Garrett told Chris Burke of SI.com. "I know I’m getting after the ball when I can. Sometimes I’m not 100 percent when I’m out there, but I’m trying to get after the passer, trying to run down the back, do what I can to make a play. Nobody’s 100 percent every play—eight, nine plays down a drive. Sometimes you do look back on it and say, ’dang, I could have gave more effort there or I loafed a little,’ but you work on those things." Meanwhile, if Lawson can match his performance on the bench press on Sunday, he'll find himself shooting up the draft boards. Solomon Thomas has plenty to prove himself, as talk has emerged this weekend that the player is a bit of a tweener. The Stanford product is excellent playing on the interior of the line, though he's a bit undersized in that role, while there are questions about whether he can translate as a 3-4 or 4-3 defensive end. Thomas will need to show solid athleticism if he's to ultimately end up as a top-10 pick. Don't bet against him. Meanwhile, some concerns have been raised about Alabama defensive lineman While his bench press wasn't impressive (21 reps), he should shine on Sunday. Derek Barnett has everything to prove on Sunday, meanwhile, and he will participate after missing Saturday due to illness, according to Adam Schefter of ESPN. The Tennessee defensive end was superb in 2016 and has excellent tape, but he's in danger of dropping down the board if he doesn't have a strong showing on Sunday. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Joe Robbins/Getty Images

On Sunday, the defensive linemen and linebackers will take the field for their workouts, including the 40-yard dash. You can see the schedule below:

NFL Scouting Combine: Sunday Workout Schedule Date Position Groups TV Time Sunday, March 5 DL, LB NFL Network Coverage begins 9 a.m. ET NFL.com/combine

While the defensive linemen and linebackers go through their on-field work, the defensive backs will go through the psychological testing, NFLPA meeting, media, bench press and interview portions of the combine, per SI.com.

All eyes will be on Texas A&M defensive end Myles Garrett, who already impressed at the bench press on Saturday by doing 33 reps. Only Auburn's Carl Lawson (35) lifted more. There's no reason to think he won't post insane numbers during his testing on Sunday—Garrett's athleticism has never been questioned.

For teams interested in taking him as an early pick, his production from 2016 is the greater concern, as his sack totals dipped to 8.5 on the season. But Garrett was also dealing with an ankle injury throughout the year. There have also been concerns that Garrett doesn't play hard every snap, which he dismissed on Saturday.

"Really don’t listen to it," Garrett told Chris Burke of SI.com. "I know I’m getting after the ball when I can. Sometimes I’m not 100 percent when I’m out there, but I’m trying to get after the passer, trying to run down the back, do what I can to make a play. Nobody’s 100 percent every play—eight, nine plays down a drive. Sometimes you do look back on it and say, ’dang, I could have gave more effort there or I loafed a little,’ but you work on those things."

Meanwhile, if Lawson can match his performance on the bench press on Sunday, he'll find himself shooting up the draft boards.

Solomon Thomas has plenty to prove himself, as talk has emerged this weekend that the player is a bit of a tweener. The Stanford product is excellent playing on the interior of the line, though he's a bit undersized in that role, while there are questions about whether he can translate as a 3-4 or 4-3 defensive end.

Thomas will need to show solid athleticism if he's to ultimately end up as a top-10 pick. Don't bet against him.

Meanwhile, some concerns have been raised about Alabama defensive lineman Jonathan Allen, who has arthritis in his shoulders, per Chase Goodbread of NFL.com. While his bench press wasn't impressive (21 reps), he should shine on Sunday.

Derek Barnett has everything to prove on Sunday, meanwhile, and he will participate after missing Saturday due to illness, according to Adam Schefter of ESPN. The Tennessee defensive end was superb in 2016 and has excellent tape, but he's in danger of dropping down the board if he doesn't have a strong showing on Sunday.

Barnett weighed in at just 259 pounds, on the smallish side for a defensive end, but he also had three straight seasons with at least 10 sacks. Barnett isn't a physical freak like Garrett, but he should test well enough that teams shouldn't worry about his college production translating to the NFL.

He won't be among the top athletes on Sunday, more than likely, but he won't stand out for negative reasons, either.

Other players to watch closely on Sunday include Caleb Brantley, Taco Charlton, Charles Harris, Malik McDowell, Takkarist McKinley, DeMarcus Walker and Tim Williams. All should be high picks come April and could seriously bolster their draft stock with impressive workouts.