Kellyanne Conway makes mistakes, just like the Oscars, says Kellyanne Conway
Kellyanne Conway makes mistakes, just like the Oscars, says Kellyanne Conway
Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway got the spotlight treatment from and it was not a disappointment. SEE ALSO: Why Kellyanne Conway was on the couch and oh lord this is so dumb The 13-minute clip touches on a lot of things, like Kellyanne's family life, the threats she's received as being one of President Trump's most visible aides, and that inauguration jacket . But perhaps the most notable moment came early on, addressing her most infamous public statements (so far). At around 4:00 minutes in, Norah O'Donnell brings up Conway's "Bowling Green massacre" moment and the " alternative facts " statement, in which Conway attempted to defend Sean Spicer's claims about Trump's inauguration attendance. In the interview, Conway attempted to explain what, exactly, "alternative facts" are but the answer didn't really serve to clear it up: "It was alternative information and additional facts. And that got conflated." "Alternative facts are not facts. They are falsehoods," Chuck Todd tells Pres. Trump's counselor Kellyanne Conway this morning. WATCH: pic.twitter.com/Ao005dQ13r — Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) January 22, 2017 And then she went a step further, defending the mistakes she's made as a spokesperson for the White House by talking about another infamous televised moment of 2017, the Oscar's Best Picture mix-up . WAIT WHAT IS HAPPENING #Oscars  pic.twitter.com/4C6QkMm55H — Mashable (@mashable) February 27, 2017 "I see mistakes on TV every single day and people just brush them off. Everybody thinks it’s just so funny that the wrong movie was, you know, heralded as the winner of the Oscars," said Conway. If there's any other surprise from the feature, it's that it at no point delves into the issue of "fake news," another rallying cry from Conway and others that seems a natural jumping off point from "alternative facts." For now, Conway's one-on-one with Jake Tapper will have to remain the definitive moment for particular discussion. . @KellyannePolls : "I don't think CNN is fake news" https://t.co/lTbpjdt0Rr — Daniella Diaz (@DaniellaMicaela) February 7, 2017 BONUS: White House says Trump tweet about Nordstrom was just defending Ivanka

Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway got the spotlight treatment from CBS Sunday Morning and it was not a disappointment.

SEE ALSO: Why Kellyanne Conway was on the couch and oh lord this is so dumb

The 13-minute clip touches on a lot of things, like Kellyanne's family life, the threats she's received as being one of President Trump's most visible aides, and that inauguration jacket.

But perhaps the most notable moment came early on, addressing her most infamous public statements (so far). At around 4:00 minutes in, Norah O'Donnell brings up Conway's "Bowling Green massacre" moment and the "alternative facts" statement, in which Conway attempted to defend Sean Spicer's claims about Trump's inauguration attendance.

In the interview, Conway attempted to explain what, exactly, "alternative facts" are but the answer didn't really serve to clear it up: "It was alternative information and additional facts. And that got conflated."

"Alternative facts are not facts. They are falsehoods," Chuck Todd tells Pres. Trump's counselor Kellyanne Conway this morning. WATCH: pic.twitter.com/Ao005dQ13r — Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) January 22, 2017

And then she went a step further, defending the mistakes she's made as a spokesperson for the White House by talking about another infamous televised moment of 2017, the Oscar's Best Picture mix-up.

"I see mistakes on TV every single day and people just brush them off. Everybody thinks it’s just so funny that the wrong movie was, you know, heralded as the winner of the Oscars," said Conway.

If there's any other surprise from the feature, it's that it at no point delves into the issue of "fake news," another rallying cry from Conway and others that seems a natural jumping off point from "alternative facts."

For now, Conway's one-on-one with Jake Tapper will have to remain the definitive moment for that particular discussion.