Retail sales tick higher, ANZ job ads dip



Retail sales tick higher, ANZ job ads dip

Posted

Retail sales rebounded in January, rising 0.4 per cent according to the Bureau of Statistics, while job ads data from ANZ showed a dip of 0.7 per cent in February after a solid rise the month prior.

There was a rise in household goods sales, particularly for electronics, people going out to cafes and eating out, and grocery purchases.

Gains, however, were partially offset by falls in clothing, footwear and personal accessories, and department store purchases.

"It is still early days but, even if growth in retail sales were to remain at 0.4 per cent month-on-month in the final two months of the first quarter, it appears that real consumption growth would still struggle to match the fourth quarter's 0.9 per cent quarter-on-quarter rise," wrote Kate Hickie, Australia and New Zealand economist at Capital Economics in a note to clients.

"Looking further ahead, we remain wary about the outlook for the household sector.

"In particular, tepid wage growth and modest employment growth will probably meant that real consumption growth this year falls short of last year's 2.7 per cent."

Highlighting that subdued outlook, job ads modestly fell after recording a jump of 3.9 per cent in January.

Annual growth in job ads fell to 6.9 per cent year-on-year for February, compared to 7.1 per cent in January.

For February, a total of 165,643 job ads were posted.

"Some moderation in job ads is not unexpected given the strong January result and may reflect the tricky nature of seasonal adjustment at this time of the year," wrote David Plank, head of Australian economics at ANZ.

"The unemployment rate has been stuck at around 5.75 per cent since early 2016.

"Looking ahead, strength in business conditions, firms' profitability and an increase in capacity utilisation all point to an improvement in labour market conditions in our view.

"Overall, we expect the unemployment rate to slowly edge downward through 2017."

Topics: business-economics-and-finance, economic-trends, retail, money-and-monetary-policy, australia