Boston Bruins' Adam McQuaid needed nearly 25 stitches to close wound after skate slices neck
Bruins' McQuaid to play after skate slices neck
Bruins' McQuaid to play after skate slices neck Forsberg, Schmaltz lead under-24 rankings Most intriguing offseason trade scenarios Q&A: 'Slap' schtick: Hanson brothers still have game Vanek, Shattenkirk good deadline moves Forecaster: Matchups, projections for Mar. 6-12 Celebrating hockey's first indoor -- brawl? Three stars for February: Jonathan Toews, Filip Forsberg, Braden Holtby Best trades made by every franchise Top 250 fantasy hockey rankings Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Boston Bruins defenseman Adam McQuaid has been cleared to play Monday against Ottawa, despite receiving nearly 25 stitches to close a wound in his neck in a game against the New Jersey Devils on Saturday night. McQuaid's neck was injured when the skate of teammate David Backes sliced his neck open. "Initially, when I didn't see any blood, I figured that I was OK," McQuaid said. "They didn't blow the whistle, and [play] was still going on in an obviously important part of the game. I was pretty helpless without my stick, but I was just trying to be a body getting in the way." "I don't think many guys saw it on the ice," added McQuaid, whose stitches resemble a zipper running halfway across the right side of his neck. "Once I got to the bench, Colin Miller at first was like, 'Oh, you're OK.' Then, 'No, actually, you're cut. You might want to have it looked at.' " McQuaid was taken to the Bruins dressing room, where the wound was stitched. The Bruins went on to defeat the Devils 3-2. McQuaid did not practice Sunday, and it remains to be seen whether he'll wear equipment to protect his neck on Monday. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Boston Bruins defenseman Adam McQuaid has been cleared to play Monday against Ottawa, despite receiving nearly 25 stitches to close a wound in his neck in a game against the New Jersey Devils on Saturday night.

McQuaid's neck was injured when the skate of teammate David Backes sliced his neck open.

"Initially, when I didn't see any blood, I figured that I was OK," McQuaid said. "They didn't blow the whistle, and [play] was still going on in an obviously important part of the game. I was pretty helpless without my stick, but I was just trying to be a body getting in the way."

"I don't think many guys saw it on the ice," added McQuaid, whose stitches resemble a zipper running halfway across the right side of his neck. "Once I got to the bench, Colin Miller at first was like, 'Oh, you're OK.' Then, 'No, actually, you're cut. You might want to have it looked at.' "

McQuaid was taken to the Bruins dressing room, where the wound was stitched. The Bruins went on to defeat the Devils 3-2.

McQuaid did not practice Sunday, and it remains to be seen whether he'll wear equipment to protect his neck on Monday.