Aadhaar Agency Says There Is No Misuse Of Biometrics Or Financial Loss Connected To It
Aadhaar Agency Says There Is No Misuse Of Biometrics Or Financial Loss Connected To It
Aadhaar Agency Says There Is No Misuse Of Biometrics Or Financial Loss Connected To It The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) said on Saturday that there has been no incident of misuse of Aadhaar biometrics leading to identity theft and financial loss. UIDAI is responsible for Aadhaar in the country. "Personal data of individuals held by UIDAI is fully safe and secure," the UIDAI said while issuing clarification regarding "misinformation" appearing in print and social media alleging breach of Aadhaar data, misuse of biometrics. "We use one of the world's most advanced encryption technologies in transmission and storage of data. As a result, during the last seven years, there has been no report of breach or leak of residents' data," UIDAI said in a statement. With reference to an incident of misuse of biometrics, the UIDAI said that it is an isolated case of an employee working with a bank's Business Correspondent's company making an attempt to misuse his own biometrics which was detected by UIDAI internal security system. The action under the Aadhaar Act has been initiated. The UIDAI is continuously updating its security parameters looking at the new threats in cyberspace. It also undertakes security audits and takes necessary steps to augment its security features. To enhance the security features of Aadhaar ecosystem, the UIDAI has decided to have registered devices for capturing biometrics data. Aadhaar has helped more than 4.47 crore people to open bank accounts through Aadhaar E-KYC. It has enabled the government to do Direct Benefit Transfer under various schemes such as LPG Subsidy under Pahal, Scholarships, MNREGA, and Pensions directly into the bank accounts of beneficiaries eliminating corruption, diversion, and leakages by middlemen. Through Aadhaar based Direct Benefit Transfers the government has saved over Rs 49,000 Crore during the last two and half years. Aadhaar based Public Distributions System is benefitting people by ensuring that their food grain entitlement is given only to the deserving beneficiaries and are not cornered by unscrupulous and corrupt elements. Responding to media reports about onboarding of the ecosystem partners UIDAI said that the regulations under the Aadhaar Act strictly regulate the onboarding, functioning including the data sharing restrictions imposed on the companies which want to use Aadhaar information. On reports of misuse of e-KYC data by various agencies and also allegations that the e-KYC API is available in public domain, the Authority said that E-KYC APIs are available only to authorised Authentication User Agencies (AUAs) and e-KYC User agencies (KUAs) through authorized Authentication Service agencies (ASAs) which have established secured network connectivity for the purpose of authentication with the Central Identities Data Repository (CIDR), in compliance with the Regulations, specifications, standards and technology architecture as prescribed by UIDAI.

The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) said on Saturday that there has been no incident of misuse of Aadhaar biometrics leading to identity theft and financial loss. UIDAI is responsible for Aadhaar in the country.

"Personal data of individuals held by UIDAI is fully safe and secure," the UIDAI said while issuing clarification regarding "misinformation" appearing in print and social media alleging breach of Aadhaar data, misuse of biometrics.

intoday.in

"We use one of the world's most advanced encryption technologies in transmission and storage of data.

As a result, during the last seven years, there has been no report of breach or leak of residents' data," UIDAI said in a statement.

With reference to an incident of misuse of biometrics, the UIDAI said that it is an isolated case of an employee working with a bank's Business Correspondent's company making an attempt to misuse his own biometrics which was detected by UIDAI internal security system. The action under the Aadhaar Act has been initiated.

The UIDAI is continuously updating its security parameters looking at the new threats in cyberspace. It also undertakes security audits and takes necessary steps to augment its security features. To enhance the security features of Aadhaar ecosystem, the UIDAI has decided to have registered devices for capturing biometrics data.

Twitter

Aadhaar has helped more than 4.47 crore people to open bank accounts through Aadhaar E-KYC. It has enabled the government to do Direct Benefit Transfer under various schemes such as LPG Subsidy under Pahal, Scholarships, MNREGA, and Pensions directly into the bank accounts of beneficiaries eliminating corruption, diversion, and leakages by middlemen. Through Aadhaar based Direct Benefit Transfers the government has saved over Rs 49,000 Crore during the last two and half years. Aadhaar based Public Distributions System is benefitting people by ensuring that their food grain entitlement is given only to the deserving beneficiaries and are not cornered by unscrupulous and corrupt elements.

Responding to media reports about onboarding of the ecosystem partners UIDAI said that the regulations under the Aadhaar Act strictly regulate the onboarding, functioning including the data sharing restrictions imposed on the companies which want to use Aadhaar information.

On reports of misuse of e-KYC data by various agencies and also allegations that the e-KYC API is available in public domain, the Authority said that E-KYC APIs are available only to authorised Authentication User Agencies (AUAs) and e-KYC User agencies (KUAs) through authorized Authentication Service agencies (ASAs) which have established secured network connectivity for the purpose of authentication with the Central Identities Data Repository (CIDR), in compliance with the Regulations, specifications, standards and technology architecture as prescribed by UIDAI.

aadhaarnews.com

Don't Miss 15.7 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES 13.7 K SHARES 25.3 K SHARES 28.5 K SHARES

With reference to reports that there are no extant regulations available to prevent storage and misuse of e-KYC data while citing instances like capturing IRIS from high-resolution photograph, UIDAI states that there are stringent provisions in the Aadhaar (Authentication) Regulations governing the usage of e-KYC data including storage and sharing, resident consent being paramount in both the cases.

"Any unauthorised capture of IRIS or fingerprints or storage or replay of biometrics or their misuse is a criminal offence under the Aadhaar Act".

Originally Published in the Times Of India