1,500 people and 500 tons of luggage -- here's how the Saudi king travels
1,500 people, 2 elevators and 500 tons of luggage -- here's how a king travels
1,500 people, 2 elevators and 500 tons of luggage -- here's how the Saudi king travels Updated 2006 GMT (0406 HKT) March 1, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (16 Videos) The King of Saudi Arabia certainly knows how to travel in style. Selfie saya dengan Raja Salman , Custodian of the two Holy Mosques ! Persahabatan yang amat akrab. pic.twitter.com/nK8aOyKYfi What on earth does he have in there? Is it all just for him? This sounds like a logistical nightmare

(CNN) The King of Saudi Arabia certainly knows how to travel in style.

In the first visit by a Saudi ruler in almost half a century, King Salman bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud arrived in Indonesia Wednesday for a nine-day tour of the world's most populous Muslim nation.

The King will spend a few days in Jakarta and West Java before heading to the popular tourist island of Bali on the Indonesian leg of a month-long Asia tour that's already taken him to Malaysia and which will also see him going to China, Japan and the Maldives.

And according to media reports, he isn't traveling light.

Adji Gunawan, the president of airport services company PT Jasa Angkasa Semestar, said the King will be traveling with 459 metric tons of luggage, approximately 505 US tons, the Jakarta Post reported.

For anyone struggling to wrap their heads around how that compares to your more traditional -- if slightly meager by comparison -- 40 pound luggage allowance, the average African Elephant reportedly weighs between 2.5 and 7 US tons.

So take your oversized suitcase, and replace it with two hundred of the world's largest land-based animals.

What on earth does he have in there?

The more unconventional things in his luggage include two Mercedes-Benz S600 and two free-standing electric elevators, according to the Jakarta Post.

Two Mercedes-Benz S600 were flown to Indonesia.

This might seem odd, but it isn't even the first time the lavish leader has traveled with an elevator.

In 2015, the King's installation of an elevator on a beach in France caused an outcry, as locals protested its installation as well as the beach's closure, according to Reuters

The elevators have reportedly already been delivered -- one arrived in Jakarta on February 21 and the other in Denpasar, Bali on February 22.

People sit and stand by the water as workers disassemble an elevator on the public beach near the Saudi King's villa in the Golfe-Juan seaside resort in Vallauris, southeastern France, on August 3, 2015.

JAS president director Adji Gunawan said 63 tons of the cargo was being unloaded in Jakarta, with the remaining 396 tons being taken to Denpasar, Bali.

Is it all just for him?

No, the King also comes with an epic entourage.

According to Indonesian news agency Antara, King Salman is traveling with no less than 1,500 people -- including ten ministers, 800 delegates and 25 princes -- who traveled to Indonesia in 36 different flights over a period of three weeks.

Adji Gunawan from JAS said that he was deploying 572 members of staff to handle the Saudi King's trip.

This sounds like a logistical nightmare

It's expected that the King's highly anticipated arrival will cause some disruption to travel services on Wednesday.

Security is tight. According to local media reports Indonesia's national police force has readied 10,000 officers across Jakarta, West Java and Bali.

And good luck finding a hotel in Jakarta this week: the King and his extensive entourage are reportedly booked into hundreds of rooms across four of the most exclusive hotels in the city, including the Ritz, Raffles and Marriott.

However concerned honeymooners and bikini-clad holidaymakers need not fear disruption to any once-in-a-lifetime trips to Bali taking place next week.

Photos: Bali's best beaches Amed Beach – Lining the island's eastern shore, this black beach is big with divers. The surrounding area is filled with coral and multiple shipwrecks. Hide Caption 1 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Balangan Beach – The waves can get high at this beach, making it popular with surfers. Rough water and a sharp ocean floor mean most beach-goers are happy to admire the view. Hide Caption 2 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Balian Beach – Balian's black sand fills the dunes and provides an escape from Bali's bustling areas. It's a great place to grab a beer and enjoy the sunset. Hide Caption 3 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Bias Tugal – This beach is accessible only through a rough and rocky path, but the effort is worth it. You'll practically have the white sand, coconut trees and turquoise water to yourself. Hide Caption 4 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Bingin Beach – White limestone cliffs are a dramatic contrast to the blue waters at this small surfing beach on Bali's Bukit Peninsula. Visitors can stay in everything from surfing camps to boutique resorts and private villas. Hide Caption 5 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Green Bowl Beach – The hundreds of steps required to reach this secluded beach keep large crowds away. Nearby caves provide shade on hot days. Hide Caption 6 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Karma Beach – The descent to this exclusive beach is made via funicular (for a small fee) rather than by stairs. Services include cocktails and shaded lounge chairs -- the area belongs to a high-end beach club open to the public. Hide Caption 7 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Dreamland Beach – Many have been deterred by the major resorts popping up around Dreamland, but the soft-sand beach itself is still worth a visit. Hide Caption 8 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Jimbaran Beach – Jimbaran Beach sits on Bali's southwestern coast, where the mainland connects to the Bukit Peninsula. It's home to luxury resorts like the Four Seasons and the Intercontinental. Restaurants line the shore with tables on the sand. Hide Caption 9 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Kuta Beach – Kuta sits in a bustling resort town that was once a quiet fishing village. Now, surfers and party hounds from around the world come to ride the long waves and hit the clubs. Hide Caption 10 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Nyang Nyang – Yet another beach that requires some work to get to. Once you find the gate, you'll walk down a series of stairs before emerging at the deserted beach. There are no showers, no restrooms, no vendors. Hide Caption 11 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Padang Padang Beach – "Eat, Pray, Love" fans may recognize this beach as the place where Julia Roberts' character meets her love interest. The water is safe to swim and the surf is some of the most exciting in all of Indonesia. Hide Caption 12 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Sanur Beach – Though not as touristy as Kuta, Sanur is filled with beachfront resorts. Yet its small fishing village charm is still intact, with local warungs holding their own against luxury hotels. Hide Caption 13 of 14 Photos: Bali's best beaches Geger Beach – The surrounding area is filled with five-star resorts like the St. Regis Bali and the Mulia. The water is typically calm, which makes rental kayaks, dinghies and paddleboards hot commodities. Hide Caption 14 of 14

At a press conference in Jakarta, the Saudi ambassador for Indonesia assured people that tourist destinations and beaches across the island would stay open, Antara reported

"There is no special agenda in Bali. King Salman and his entourage will enjoy the natural beauty of the island," the ambassador said.

According to CNN Indonesia, once on the predominantly Hindu island of Bali , the King and his entourage will be staying in three luxury hotels -- including the Bulgari, where the most exclusive villa costs up to $4,400 a night.

The resort also boasts a private beach -- accessible only by an elevator.