A Japanese Man Was Crushed to Death by His Six-Ton Porn Stash
A Japanese Man Was Crushed to Death by His Six-Ton Porn Stash
Authorities believe a Japanese man with an extensive pornography collection was ultimately killed by that same massive shrine to adult entertainment. The reports the corpse of a 50-year-old man simply known as Joji was found buried under a pile of his massive stash of adult magazines. “It was unclear if he had suffered a heart attack and fallen into the stacks of magazines which had then fallen on top of him, or whether he had been crushed by the mass of paper,” reported Gareth Davies of the . “But the cleaner said that if he was still conscious, the paper would probably have muffled his cries.” Joji’s body wasn’t found for nearly six months, until his landlord entered the residence to find out why the rent hadn't been paid and discovered the corpse of his former tenant. According to eyewitnesses, his entire residence was filled with stacks of magazines. Photos from the scene show men’s adult magazines in the kitchen, bedroom, and piled so abundantly that the floor wasn’t visible. The collection is estimated at six metric tons, which is over 13,000 pounds. According to a 2014 report by , Japan ranks second in per-capita spending on pornography, with the average citizen shelling out $157 annually on adult entertainment. We're guessing Joji most likely spent more than the national average. The victim was a car manufacturer and is believed to have been a bachelor.

Authorities believe a Japanese man with an extensive pornography collection was ultimately killed by that same massive shrine to adult entertainment. The Daily Mail reports the corpse of a 50-year-old man simply known as Joji was found buried under a pile of his massive stash of adult magazines.

“It was unclear if he had suffered a heart attack and fallen into the stacks of magazines which had then fallen on top of him, or whether he had been crushed by the mass of paper,” reported Gareth Davies of the Daily Mail. “But the cleaner said that if he was still conscious, the paper would probably have muffled his cries.”

Joji’s body wasn’t found for nearly six months, until his landlord entered the residence to find out why the rent hadn't been paid and discovered the corpse of his former tenant. According to eyewitnesses, his entire residence was filled with stacks of magazines. Photos from the scene show men’s adult magazines in the kitchen, bedroom, and piled so abundantly that the floor wasn’t visible. The collection is estimated at six metric tons, which is over 13,000 pounds.

According to a 2014 report by The Japan Times, Japan ranks second in per-capita spending on pornography, with the average citizen shelling out $157 annually on adult entertainment. We're guessing Joji most likely spent a little more than the national average.

The victim was a car manufacturer and is believed to have been a bachelor.