Not Just Air Pollution, Delhi Is Also World No.1 In Noise Pollution + 5 Other Major Reads From Today
Not Just Air Pollution, Delhi Is Also World No.1 In Noise Pollution + 5 Other Reads From Today
Not Just Air Pollution, Delhi Is Also World No.1 In Noise Pollution + 5 Other Major Reads From Today New world rankings on urban noise pollution and hearing loss, both which are interdependent, show New Delhi as among the worst hit cities by high decibels. The survey that was released on Friday ranks 50 cities across both categories and lists Guangzhou, New Delhi, Cairo and Istanbul among the top with respect to degraded hearing. Paris, Shanghai, Hong Kong, and Barcelona also fared poorly. Read more 1. Saudi Police Tortured And Killed Two Transgender Pakistanis For Dressing Like Women In Public Two Pakistani transgender persons died after being tortured allegedly by Saudi Arabian police in Riyadh for dressing up as women in public. Saudi law enforcement agency arrested thirty five transgender people for cross-dressing, a punishable offence in the Middle-eastern country. Read more 2. Muslim Women Swimmers Have Earned The Right To Compete In 'Burkinis' In England Muslim women swimmers have won the right to race in loose-fitting full body outfits or 'burkinis' while taking part in amateur swimming competitions in England. On a request from the Muslim Women's Sport Foundation, the Amateur Swimming Association (ASA) has relaxed its swimsuit regulations to allow women to wear loose-fitting full body outfits. Read more 3. Scientists Finally Solve The Mystery Behind A Panda's Fur, Reveal Why It Is Black And White It's not unknown that the characteristic markings of black and white on a giant panda have two important functions - communication and camouflage. But why is the fur coloured in two shades instead of one? The mystery that puzzled biologists for the longest time has now come to rest after a breakthrough enabled them to treat each part of the panda's body as an independent area.

New world rankings on urban noise pollution and hearing loss, both which are interdependent, show New Delhi as among the worst hit cities by high decibels.

Indiatimes

The survey that was released on Friday ranks 50 cities across both categories and lists Guangzhou, New Delhi, Cairo and Istanbul among the top with respect to degraded hearing. Paris, Shanghai, Hong Kong, and Barcelona also fared poorly. Read more

1. Saudi Police Tortured And Killed Two Transgender Pakistanis For Dressing Like Women In Public

Two Pakistani transgender persons died after being tortured allegedly by Saudi Arabian police in Riyadh for dressing up as women in public.

AFP

Saudi law enforcement agency arrested thirty five transgender people for cross-dressing, a punishable offence in the Middle-eastern country. Read more

2. Muslim Women Swimmers Have Earned The Right To Compete In 'Burkinis' In England

Muslim women swimmers have won the right to race in loose-fitting full body outfits or 'burkinis' while taking part in amateur swimming competitions in England.

Reuters

On a request from the Muslim Women's Sport Foundation, the Amateur Swimming Association (ASA) has relaxed its swimsuit regulations to allow women to wear loose-fitting full body outfits. Read more

3. Scientists Finally Solve The Mystery Behind A Panda's Fur, Reveal Why It Is Black And White

It's not unknown that the characteristic markings of black and white on a giant panda have two important functions - communication and camouflage. But why is the fur coloured in two shades instead of one? The mystery that puzzled biologists for the longest time has now come to rest after a breakthrough enabled them to treat each part of the panda's body as an independent area.

Indiatimes

Don't Miss 597 SHARES 15.9 K SHARES 15.3 K SHARES 13.7 K SHARES

The team of researchers compared different areas of fur across the giant panda's body to the light-and-dark colourings of 195 other carnivore species and 39 subspecies of bears, to which the panda is related. Read more

4. In Somalia, Severe Drought Kills 110 In 48 Hours, While Threatening Millions Across The Country

On Saturday, as a harsh drought engulfs Somalia and threatens the lives of millions, the prime minister announced that 110 people died from hunger in 48 hours in a single region.

Reuters

This was the first death toll announced by Somalia's government since it declared the drought a national disaster on Tuesday. The United Nations estimates that 5 million people in this Horn of Africa nation need aid, amid warnings of a full-blown famine. Read more

5. CBI Ex-Chief A P Singh’s Assets May Be Attached In The Money Laundering Case

Former CBI director A P Singh is likely to be booked under the stringent Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and may soon face attachment of his properties by the Enforcement Directorate on alleged money laundering charges. The charges stem from his involvement with controversial meat exporter Moin Qureshi.

Indiatimes

In a separate money laundering case registered against him, the meat exporter has already been questioned by the ED on his dealings with the former CBI director and some other public servants. A senior ED official said the agency is in the process of registering a case under PMLA based on "concrete evidence" against Singh who has already been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act by the CBI in February last week. Singh headed CBI from 2010 to 2012. Read more