Victoria's stamp duty cut will raise house prices, Scott Morrison says



Victoria's stamp duty cut will raise house prices, Scott Morrison says

Posted

Victoria's move to abolish stamp duty for first home buyers purchasing a property valued below $600,000 will not work unless more homes are built, Treasurer Scott Morrison says.

The state Labor Government has announced a suite of policies to tackle housing affordability over recent weeks, with Victorian Treasurer Tim Pallas calling on the Federal Government to "step up to the plate" and look beyond land supply — the primary issue cited by the Commonwealth when discussing housing.

But, while some policies are "really interesting", cutting stamp duty will not drive prices down, Mr Morrison told Sydney radio station 2GB.

"Good on them for having a good crack at this," he said.

"But at the end of the day, if that just means people bid up more in the auction because they can borrow more because they don't have to pay stamp duty, well obviously, that will just take prices in one direction.

"So you can't do that without addressing the supply issues at the end of the day."

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull also weighed in on the issue, saying stamp duty and tax were "relevant" but not as pressing as supply.

"It is a big challenge, but it is one that we are absolutely focused on," he said.

"It is a very important one, but we need federal, state and local government to work together."

The Government has confirmed there will be a package in the May budget aimed at addressing housing affordability, with Mr Turnbull describing the issue as a "key focus" for the Government.

A thorny issue for Government

Housing affordability has been a thorny issue for the Federal Government, with the Opposition using it as part of its campaign to paint the Turnbull Government as out of touch.

Opposition Leader Bill Shorten leapt on comments made by Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce earlier this year, when he responded to concerns over housing affordability in Sydney by saying "houses will always be incredibly expensive if you can see the Opera House".

Mr Joyce suggested people move to Tamworth, despite the New England region having a higher unemployment rate than any Sydney suburb.

This commentary has been compounded by Liberal backbencher John Alexander repeatedly calling for action from his colleagues.

The Sydney MP told ABC News Breakfast it was time for bold policy ideas amid ongoing refusal from the Government to confirm whether changes to capital gains tax will be included in the budget.

"The sportsman in me says no guts, no glory," he said.

"It's time to have some courage, it's time to put ideas and plans and vision forward."

Topics: housing, government-and-politics, state-parliament, states-and-territories, vic, australia