The Most Powerful Brands In 2017
The Most Powerful Brands In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jeff Kauflin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A boy selects a boxed Lego A/S toy in Incheon, South Korea. Lego won the title of most powerful brand. Photo credit: Bloomberg. The Most Powerful Brands In 2017 Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Lego, the maker of the plastic toys you probably played with as a kid, has been named the most powerful brand in the world. Every year consulting firm Brand Finance releases a list of the strongest brands, and Lego took the top spot for 2017.

Brand Finance’s most powerful brands ranking is calculated based on three criteria. The first is “equity”—through surveys, consumers answer questions like which brands they prefer and intend to purchase. Brand Finance rolls these responses up into an equity metric and assigns it 50% of the brand power score. The second dimension, “brand input,” measures how much money brands spend on marketing. The more you spend, the higher you rank. The last piece, “output,” looks at a company’s profit margins and prices. A brand with a high margin that commands a premium price in its category scores well in this third area. Each of these last two dimensions make up 25% of the brand power score.

To view the 10 most powerful brands in 2017, open the gallery below.

Lego has long had the foundation of a strong brand. According to the report Brand Finance released this month, “[Lego’s] appeal spans generations; as well as the creative freedom it gives children, the brand appeals to the nostalgia of adults.” Lego has also avoided gendered marketing, giving it a broad customer base. In 2015, after The Lego Movie had achieved commercial and critical success, Lego topped Brand Finance’s powerful brands list. It was displaced for a year by Disney, but has since regained the number-one spot. Last week Lego released a sequel to The Lego Movie, and its box-office sales beat every other movie showing in America. Brand Finance expects this film to further boost Lego’s brand.

Google was named the second most powerful brand. It remains the far-and-away category leader in its core search business. This year Google also became the world’s most valuable brand, bumping Apple to second place. Brand Finance estimates Google’s total brand value at $109 billion.

Visa ranked fifth. According to Brand Finance spokesperson David Haigh, the changing payments market has been a boon for Visa, and the company is well positioned as we move toward a cashless society.

Follow me on Twitter @JeffKauflin or email me at jkauflin[at]forbes[dot]com.