Driving instructor nearly causes a head-on collision
Footage captures moment driving instructor nearly causes head-on crash


This is the shocking moment a driving instructor almost caused a head-on collision, after executing a blind overtake on a single carriageway road.

In the clip, caught on the dash cam of the vehicle being overtaken, the red car almost collides with a van.

The near-miss took place last week on a quiet country road near St Neots, Cambridgeshire.

At the start of the video, the dash cam vehicle can be seen approaching the blue van, which is travelling in the opposite direction.

Then, a red vehicle, with a L-plate advertising board displayed on its roof, comes steaming past, on the other side of the road.

It appears almost certain to collide with the van, until the driver nips in, avoiding a crash by inches.

The incident occured on a road just off the A1 on Thursday, although the dash cam time stamp displays an incorrect date.

The number plate and identity of the driving instructor cannot be established from the clip.

The driving instructor's car executes a blind overtake on a country road in Cambridgeshire

The red vehicle comes dangerously close to a head-on collision with a blue van

The driver just manages to pull back into the left lane inches away from a crash

After footage of the incident was shared on social media, users were quick to criticise the dangerous driving of the teacher.

Jemma Cox said: 'That is bad. Really bad.'

Paul Summerton wrote: 'I mean come on. What the f***.'

And David Bullock added: 'Don't know the road so couldn't tell what was in the seconds before he overtook but definitely no overtake there.'

But some users found the incident funny.

Wayne Brown quipped: 'Just teaching his students how to drive after they've passed, just a forward thinking kind of guy I guess.'

The man who took the footage, wishes to stay anonymous, but wrote: 'We wonder why some people can't drive when this is what is teaching them.

'The incident does not look as close as it was but me and the blue van had to brake hard.'