Russia urged to ban 'Beauty and the Beast'
Russia urged to ban 'Beauty and the Beast'
Russia urged to ban 'Beauty and the Beast' remake over gay 'propaganda' Updated 0521 GMT (1321 HKT) March 6, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (14 Videos) Story highlights Russia's laws prohibit the spreading of "gay propaganda" among minors Director: LeFou character, sidekick to villainous Gaston, has an "exclusively gay moment" in film A Russian lawmaker has urged that country's government to ban Disney's new "Beauty and the Beast" remake after labeling it "a blatant, shameless propaganda of sin and perverted sexual relationships." New poster for Beauty and the Beast! @beourguest 🌹 pic.twitter.com/iE6YzVCKus Russia's anti-gay climate JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Controversy in the US CNN's David Daniel and Jay Croft contributed to this article.

Story highlights Russia's laws prohibit the spreading of "gay propaganda" among minors

Director: LeFou character, sidekick to villainous Gaston, has an "exclusively gay moment" in film

Moscow (CNN) A Russian lawmaker has urged that country's government to ban Disney's new "Beauty and the Beast" remake after labeling it "a blatant, shameless propaganda of sin and perverted sexual relationships."

The complaint was detailed in a letter sent by Vitaly Milonov to the Culture Minister Vladimir Medinsky and reported by state-run news agency Ria Novsti. It says the movie should not be shown in Russia if the ministry found "elements of propaganda of homosexuality."

The Ministry of Culture has not yet issued a ruling on the film, which stars Emma Watson and is scheduled to open in Russia March 16.

The movie is rated PG and is a live-action remake of the 1991 animated hit. Its director, Bill Condon, has said the character of LeFou, fawning sidekick to the villainous Gaston, has an "exclusively gay moment" in the film.

At the end of the film, there's a huge celebratory dance -- the kind where everyone's in a big circle and regularly changes partners. On one of these changes, LeFou finds himself paired with another man. They freeze, surprised, in their "embrace." The audience laughs and then the camera cuts away. That's it -- the moment is over in less than a second.

New poster for Beauty and the Beast! @beourguest 🌹 pic.twitter.com/iE6YzVCKus — Emma Watson (@EmmaWatson) January 8, 2017