Little boy cuts his hair so he can look exactly like his best friend
Little boy cuts his hair so he can look exactly like his best friend
Meet Lydia Stith Rosebush and her son, Jax. The Kentucky mom posted a conversation with her adorable son, who turned five this week, on Facebook that has since gone viral. Rosebush wanted to take Jax to get his hair cut over the weekend to tame his “wild hair” but Jax had a very specific haircut in mind — he wanted to shave it. But being a mom, Rosebush protested. When she later asked Jax why he decided on the drastic hairstyle change, he replied saying that he wanted his hair really short so he could look just like his best friend Reddy. Prepare yourself for a sucker-punch of cuteness because here’s a picture of Jax and Reddy: Can you see the resemblance? We can’t tell them apart! “He said he couldn’t wait to go to school on Monday with his hair like Reddy’s so that his teacher wouldn’t be able to tell them apart,” wrote Rosebush. “He thought it would be so hilarious to confuse his teacher with the same haircut.” She capped off her post by saying, “If this isn’t proof that hate and prejudice is something that is taught I don’t know what is. The only difference Jax sees in the two of them is their hair.” Cue the “awwwwwwwwws…” The 5-year-old has always had a “big heart” according to his mother. “He’s the kid that won’t let you kill bugs because he doesn’t want them to die. He is always trying to give his toys to kids he doesn’t think have toys,” she told . Her post has since received more than 9,000 likes and has been shared thousands of times with many leaving comments praising Jax. “Damn that gave me chills reading that, love children man wish they coul keep that innoncence forvever,” wrote one commenter. “You are an inspiration to us adults Jax,” wrote another. Rosebush said she was overwhelmed by the number of positive reactions she received. “I had no idea it would resonate with so many people. I try really hard to make sure both of my kids know that the color of someone’s skin or even their religion have nothing to do with what kind of friend they could be,” she said. “I just try to raise my little humans to be kind and tolerant adults one day. Parenting is so very hard and has no instruction manual so when your kid says or does something like this you can’t help but high five yourself because you might actually be doing this thing right.” Never change, Jax! And Kudos to mom for raising such a sweet child. Share your thoughts on Jax with us by tweeting us .

Image: Facebook/Lydia Stith Rosebush More

Meet Lydia Stith Rosebush and her son, Jax.

The Kentucky mom posted a conversation with her adorable son, who turned five this week, on Facebook that has since gone viral.

Rosebush wanted to take Jax to get his hair cut over the weekend to tame his “wild hair” but Jax had a very specific haircut in mind — he wanted to shave it.

But being a mom, Rosebush protested. When she later asked Jax why he decided on the drastic hairstyle change, he replied saying that he wanted his hair really short so he could look just like his best friend Reddy.

Prepare yourself for a sucker-punch of cuteness because here’s a picture of Jax and Reddy:

Can you see the resemblance? We can’t tell them apart!

“He said he couldn’t wait to go to school on Monday with his hair like Reddy’s so that his teacher wouldn’t be able to tell them apart,” wrote Rosebush. “He thought it would be so hilarious to confuse his teacher with the same haircut.”

She capped off her post by saying, “If this isn’t proof that hate and prejudice is something that is taught I don’t know what is. The only difference Jax sees in the two of them is their hair.”

Cue the “awwwwwwwwws…”

The 5-year-old has always had a “big heart” according to his mother.

“He’s the kid that won’t let you kill bugs because he doesn’t want them to die. He is always trying to give his toys to kids he doesn’t think have toys,” she told Yahoo Canada.

Her post has since received more than 9,000 likes and has been shared thousands of times with many leaving comments praising Jax.

“Damn that gave me chills reading that, love children man wish they coul keep that innoncence forvever,” wrote one commenter. “You are an inspiration to us adults Jax,” wrote another.

Rosebush said she was overwhelmed by the number of positive reactions she received.

“I had no idea it would resonate with so many people. I try really hard to make sure both of my kids know that the color of someone’s skin or even their religion have nothing to do with what kind of friend they could be,” she said. “I just try to raise my little humans to be kind and tolerant adults one day. Parenting is so very hard and has no instruction manual so when your kid says or does something like this you can’t help but high five yourself because you might actually be doing this thing right.”

Never change, Jax! And Kudos to mom for raising such a sweet child.

Share your thoughts on Jax with us by tweeting us @YahooStyleCA.