Longest Serving Warship In The World, INS Viraat Aircraft Carrier To Be Decommissioned Today
Longest Serving Warship In The World, INS Viraat Aircraft Carrier To Be Decommissioned Today
Longest Serving Warship In The World, INS Viraat Aircraft Carrier To Be Decommissioned Today The world's oldest aircraft carrier in active service, INS Viraa t , will be decommissioned on Monday after serving the Indian Navy for nearly 30 years. INS Viraat's retirement will not only end a glorious chapter in the Indian Navy's history but will also create a vacuum as the sea hawks will be short of two aircraft carriers now. Earlier, INS Vikrant was decommissioned in 1997. The decommissioning ceremony will be attended by Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar and other dignitaries.  The grand event will see the lowering and wrap-up of the naval flag installed on the warship at sunset, marking an end to a long sea odyssey lasting 55 years. Also Read: Plans To Convert INS Viraat Into A Museum Fails, India’s Oldest Warship May Be Sold For Scrap INS Viraat was commissioned in Indian Navy in 1987, before that the historic ship served Royal British Navy for 27 long years. It was built in 1943, during the Second World War. The carrier has provided utmost protection to the country during many tense situations. The decision on the warship's future has not been taken yet.  But the warship would be possibly converted into a museum, hotel or will be preserved as a relic of maritime history. Also Read: After 50 Years Of Service, Indian Navy Bids Farewell To INS Viraat

The world's oldest aircraft carrier in active service, INS Viraat, will be decommissioned on Monday after serving the Indian Navy for nearly 30 years.

BCCL

INS Viraat's retirement will not only end a glorious chapter in the Indian Navy's history but will also create a vacuum as the sea hawks will be short of two aircraft carriers now. Earlier, INS Vikrant was decommissioned in 1997.

The decommissioning ceremony will be attended by Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar and other dignitaries. The grand event will see the lowering and wrap-up of the naval flag installed on the warship at sunset, marking an end to a long sea odyssey lasting 55 years.

Also Read: Plans To Convert INS Viraat Into A Museum Fails, India’s Oldest Warship May Be Sold For Scrap

BCCL

INS Viraat was commissioned in Indian Navy in 1987, before that the historic ship served Royal British Navy for 27 long years. It was built in 1943, during the Second World War. The carrier has provided utmost protection to the country during many tense situations.

The decision on the warship's future has not been taken yet. But the warship would be possibly converted into a museum, hotel or will be preserved as a relic of maritime history.

Also Read: After 50 Years Of Service, Indian Navy Bids Farewell To INS Viraat

Originally Published in Economictimes

Don't Miss 5 K SHARES 3.5 K SHARES 18.9 K SHARES 16.7 K SHARES 15.6 K SHARES