Goldberg defeats Kevin Owens to win WWE Universal Championship
WWE Fastlane: Goldberg defeats Kevin Owens to win WWE Universal Championship
WWE Fastlane: Goldberg defeats Kevin Owens to win WWE Universal Championship WWE Fastlane match recaps and ratings WrestleMania 33 news and information Oral history: Randy Savage versus Ricky "The Dragon" Steamboat Big Show blames Shaq's weight for scuttling WrestleMania plans NXT Recap: Tag team division continues to steal the show, Asuka and Ember Moon go face-to-face SmackDown Recap: Randy Orton sets the 'Road to WrestleMania' (and Sister Abigail) aflame 205 Live recap: Is the Jack Gallagher versus Neville setup believable? Strowman-Reigns showdown saves uneven pre-Fastlane Raw Beth Phoenix joins WWE Hall of Fame class of 2017 No Way Jose finding his way in NXT while drawing from his Dominican roots Kassius Ohno and Peyton Royce stake their NXT title claims SmackDown Recap: Alexa Bliss wins women's title while Bray Wyatt still waits for a challenger Gallagher continues build ahead of Fastlane bout with Neville Ember Moon ready to take the wrestling world by storm Alexa Bliss defeats Becky Lynch to become two-time SmackDown women's champion DDP reflects on WWE HOF induction, impact of DDP Yoga How an American won the hearts of Mexico's lucha libre fans Eric Young and the brotherhood of wrestling Kevin Owens takes over No. 1 spot in Power Rankings after "Festival of Friendship" Mojo Rawley and the Gronkowskis, Mickie James' return and Rhyno's political future Rule No. 8: An announcer needs to get the on-air talents over Nikki Bella on her Mexican heritage, her future as an aunt to Brie's child and her wrestling career Bray Wyatt reflects on his WWE championship victory The Revival takes pride in being 'top guys' no matter where they may end up AJ Styles holds top spot by narrowest of margins over Owens, Cena Nikki Cross: The Scottish spitfire fueling SAnitY's mania and energy Through wrestling, Sami Zayn works against the demonization of Muslims Shawn Michaels claims "no itch to scratch" in terms of WWE return Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Former Managing Editor of BLUFF magazine Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Oftentimes in the world of wrestling, the simplest solution often ends up being the right one. No matter what your feelings are about the result of Sunday's WWE Universal Championship match at Fastlane, there's no denying that keeping it simple was as effective a device for how things played out as the WWE could have conceived of.

Oftentimes in the world of wrestling, the simplest solution often ends up being the right one.

No matter what your feelings are about the result of Sunday's WWE Universal Championship match at Fastlane, there's no denying that keeping it simple was as effective a device for how things played out as the WWE could have conceived of.

Ratings summary (0.75) Rating Summary: Another Goldberg match. Another quick win. There's not much else to say here. It was predictable and sets up the Owens/Jericho collision at WrestleMania and raises the stakes for the Goldberg/Lesnar match. Totals (1 possible point for each) Storytelling: 0.25

In-ring execution: 0.00

Match psychology: 0.50

Timing: 0.00

Innovation: 0.00 -- Sean Coyle

Goldberg defeated Kevin Owens after a distraction from Chris Jericho, becoming the second-oldest WWE world champion in the company's history at age 50. This victory also sets the stage for Goldberg's scheduled match for WrestleMania 33 against Brock Lesnar to be the prohibitive favorite to occupy the traditional main event slot at the biggest show of the year.

With less than a minute left in the traditional broadcast window, there was very little hope that the match for the WWE Universal Championship match at Fastlane -- which started at 10:59 -- would amount to anything but spear, jackhammer, 1-2-3. As WWE stretched the broadcast beyond that traditional window, however, with Owens sliding out of the ring to waste time, several other possibilities seemed to be possible.

Owens teased getting back into the ring several times, playing mind games with his intense opponent by stepping back out and pacing on the outside of the ring. Even after fully stepping back into the ring once, Owens immediately dropped down and rolled under the bottom rope. The entire escapade lasted more than five minutes.

Editor's Picks WWE Fastlane: Bayley retains, ends Charlotte's PPV streak Bayley defeated Charlotte Flair at WWE Fastlane to retain the Raw women's championship and end Charlotte's previously unbeaten PPV streak.

WWE Fastlane match recaps and ratings How did the final pay-per-view ahead of WrestleMania play out? Our recaps and ratings break down every match on the card. 1 Related

As Owens finally prepared himself for the match and beckoned Goldberg to the middle of the ring, thinking he'd already gotten through much of his opponent's stamina, Jericho's music hit just seconds before the bell finally rang to start the match. As Owens turned, incredulous that his long-time best friend had arrived, Goldberg promptly hit a spear.

Owens writhed on the ground in pain for several seconds before being picked up and dropped by a jackhammer. Three seconds later, Goldberg became the third ever WWE Universal champion.

This loss ends Owens' reign as Universal champion at 188 days. After Finn Balor relinquished the title one day after winning it against Seth Rollins at SummerSlam, Owens won a Fatal 4-Way elimination match on Monday Night Raw by pinning Rollins (with an assist from Triple H).