BBC wrongly announces The Fall star Mark E. Smith's DEATH
BBC wrongly announces The Fall star Mark E. Smith's DEATH


The BBC was forced to issue an apology after officials wrongly announced that The Fall frontman Mark E. Smith had passed away on Sunday.

In a message posted on Twitter, the official site for the BBC Music page shared an image of the singer with 110,000 followers, while adding a simple caption on the snap reading: 'RIP Mark E Smith'.

The mishap from the corporation transpired to be intended as a birthday message to ring in the star's 60th birthday, with the note quickly edited to read: 'Happy 60th Mark E Smith'.

Oh dear: The BBC was forced to issue an apology after officials wrongly announced that The Fall frontman Mark E. Smith had passed away

Smith rang in his 60th birthday on Sunday, with tributes flooding in from fans all over, although the BBC made the epic blunder in its well-meaning note.

Following the mishap, officials released a gushing statement saying: 'This was a genuine human error and the message was posted by mistake and swiftly deleted. We apologise for the error.'

The incident was not the first of its kinds at the BBC after journalist Ahmen Khawaja published a ‘breaking news’ alert in 2015, stating that the Queen had died.

Her misunderstanding occured whilst the BBC was rehearsing what it would do when a senior member of the royal family dies.

Not gone: In a message posted on Twitter on Sunday, the official site for the BBC Music page shared an image of the singer with 110,000 followers, while adding a simple caption on the snap reading: 'RIP Mark E Smith'

Her announcement – first that the Queen had been hospitalised, then that she had died – sparked a global media frenzy as broadcasters and newspapers around the world followed the story.

The Queen was, in fact, still very much alive and in good health as she was pictured the following morning as she met members of the Women's Institute and cut their Centenary Celebration Cake.

Ahmen works at the BBC’s London headquarters, but was not involved in rehearsal for the royal obituary, or even supposed to be in the room.

BBC sources believe she became aware of the run-through and took it seriously, although she claimed the Tweets were sent as a joke by someone who had accessed her Twitter account on her mobile.

Stress: Smith rang in his 60th birthday on Sunday, with tributes flooding in from fans all over, although the BBC made the epic blunder in its well-meaning note

The Tweet from her account read: ‘BREAKING: Queen Elizabeth is being treated at King Edward 7th Hospital in London. Statement due shortly: @BBCWorld.’

Moments later, another tweet said: ‘“Queen Elizabrth [sic] has died”: @BBCWorld' - all happening while the Queen was in hospital having a routine check-up, but Buckingham Palace confirmed that she is in good health.

Ahmen quickly deleted the offensive tweet, but it had already sparked headlines around the world.

American television network CNN, India’s Hindustan Times, and Bild, the respected German newspaper, all picked up the story, and were forced to backtrack when they realised the tweet had been sent by mistake.