Peugeot buys Vauxhall and Opel from General Motors: what happens next?
Peugeot buys Vauxhall and Opel from General Motors: what happens next?
rench car giant PSA Group is to buy the European operations of General Motors , including Vauxhall in the UK, for £1.9bn. The announcement ends weeks of speculation about the deal and its impact on thousands of jobs at Vauxhall plants in Ellesmere Port and Luton. Unite called for assurances over the long-term future of the UK factories. How many UK jobs could be affected? The company employs 4,500 people in the UK. There are a further 23,000 people working in its retail and support operations, and a 7,000 more in its supply chain whose jobs depend on the company’s presence in the UK. Why is PSA buying Vauxhall and Opel? he deal will make PSA, which also owns Citroen and Peugeot, the second biggest car maker in Europe, with about 16pc of the market. It will now be bigger than Renault and second only to Volkswagen. As with any merger, there are opportunities to streamline operations and save money. Vauxhall boss Carlos Tavares has a reputation as a cost-cutter. Why is General Motors selling? The Vauxhall-Opel business hasn’t made a profit this century, and GM, which was bailed out during the financial crisis, is looking to retrench. The deal means it will withdraw from the European market completely. US car makers are also under pressure from the Trump administration to keep plants and jobs in the US. In January, the President singled out GM for choosing to make a version of the Chevy Cruze car in Mexico. "Make in USA or pay big border tax!" Mr Trump declared. o far GM has not shifted production back to the US, though rival Ford cancelled its plan to build a $1.6bn factory in Mexico in favour of a facility in Michigan. It denied this move was a result of Trump's pressure. Will PSA pull out of the UK? The UK is still the second biggest car market in Europe. The company has certain commitments to keep manufacturing in the UK for the next few years. The Vauxhall Astra is manufactured at Ellesmere Port in Cheshire in a contract that expires in 2021, with 80pc of the factory’s output sold to the continent under the Opel brand. Engines and the Vivaro van will be made in Luton until 2024. onetheless PSA, which is around 14pc owned by the French government, will look very closely to see whether it can make its UK operations more efficient in order to drag them back into the black. Mr Tavares said every worker would be given a "chance" to prove their efficiency. "Everybody will have a chance to reach the benchmark in terms of efficiency and as we are progressing towards the benchmark and efficiency we do not need to shut down plants," he said today. "Shutting down the plant is rather simplistic," he added. What do the unions say? Len McCluskey, general secretary of Unite, has called the last few weeks of uncertainty “nerve wracking” for staff. "While initial discussions with the PSA Group have been relatively positive, our priority now is to ensure a long-term future for our plants and the tens of thousands of workers depending on them," he said. "Our plants are the most productive in the European operation, the brand is strong here, the market for the products is here, so the cars must be made here." What has been the reaction of the Government? usiness secretary Greg Clark has been quick to meet both companies to seek assurances on UK jobs, and travelled to Paris to meet with PSA executives shortly after it emerged the deal could be on the cards. He said today: "Vauxhall has a long history of success in this country and we are determined to see that continue. The Government welcomes the assurance by PSA that they will respect the commitments made by GM to Vauxhall's employees and pensioners. "The Prime Minister and I have been in close contact with the PSA Group and General Motors and they have been clear this deal is an opportunity to grow the Vauxhall brand, building on their existing strengths and commitments. “I have set out the Government's determination to make the UK one of the world’s most attractive locations for innovative future vehicle technology, including electric vehicles and battery technology - a key part of our modern Industrial Strategy." heresa May is believed to have raised the matter with French Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve and Mr Tavares in recent weeks. What is the impact of Brexit on the deal? Complications arising out of Brexit such as the potential for the imposition of trade tariffs and higher costs caused by the weaker pound could make by shutting the UK plants the easiest solution for PSA. M chief Mary Barra noted that Opel-Vauxhall would have broken even in 2016 had it not been for Britain's decision to leave the European Union, which caused a plunge in the value of the pound. he issue of trade tariffs has been called a “red line” by industry trade body the Society of Motor Manufacturers & Traders (SMMT). The UK car industry is worried that even under free trade agreements (FTAs) its vehicles could be subject to tariffs of up to 10pc. This is because typical FTA “rules of origin” look at how much of a product is made in the home country. Products that are 50-55pc British made, for example, should be exempt from tariffs under FTA rules. However most cars manufactured here are around 40pc British made, with many parts exported back and forth to the continent before ending up in the finished vehicle. The UK car industry is looking at ways to boost the proportion of cars made in Britain by bringing back specialist parts making. What will happen to the Vauxhall pension deficit? An estimated £1bn pension deficit at Vauxhall/Opel UK was perceived to be a stumbling block to the deal. Pensions expert John Ralfe told last month: “The last accounts, which are two years old, show the scheme had £1.8bn of assets but £2.6bn of liabilities, and with the way the markets have moved since, it’s likely that the deficit has grown.” The scheme has estimated 15,000 members. r McCluskey of Unite said: “I have sought and have received urgent assurances from the PSA Group and General Motors as to their intentions towards the pensions of the UK workforce. “It is vital that those who have saved hard for their retirement receive the benefits to which they are entitled. Unite will not allow our members to lose out, not by a penny.” r Tavares said this morning: "Business ethics means that entering this deal, any agreement existing in the Opel Vauxhall company, especially all the deals with the unions, will be respected. This is not tactical, this is ethics. If there is an agreement, we respect it."

French car giant PSA Group is to buy the European operations of General Motors, including Vauxhall in the UK, for £1.9bn.

The announcement ends weeks of speculation about the deal and its impact on thousands of jobs at Vauxhall plants in Ellesmere Port and Luton.

Unite called for assurances over the long-term future of the UK factories.

How many UK jobs could be affected?

The company employs 4,500 people in the UK. There are a further 23,000 people working in its retail and support operations, and a 7,000 more in its supply chain whose jobs depend on the company’s presence in the UK.