Peugeot-Citroën chief vows to save jobs in Vauxhall/Opel takeover

The chief executive of the French company behind Peugeot and Citroën has vowed to turn Opel and Vauxhall around without factory closures or job cuts, after agreeing to buy General Motors’ lossmaking European arm for €2.2bn (£1.9bn). The acquisition of Opel/Vauxhall , which generated revenues of €17.7bn last year, will transform PSA Group into the second-biggest carmaker in Europe, after Volkswagen. PSA’s chief executive, Carlos Tavares, pointed to the French company’s track record and said employees at Vauxhall in the UK and Opel in Germany would be given a chance to reach the necessary “benchmark” of efficiency. GM and PSA said the deal would create annual savings in purchasing, manufacturing, and research and development of €1.7bn by 2026, with most savings likely to be achieved by 2020 from purchasing. Tavares said the estimate did not include any job cuts. He told a press conference in Paris: “We do not need to shut down plants … We believe we need to trust the talents of people. They always come up with ideas and solutions we could not imagine … Shutting down plants is rather simplistic.” Tavares stressed that he had not closed any factories since he took over at PSA in 2014. The carmaker, which came close to bankruptcy and was bailed out by the French government and Chinese investors, shut a French factory just before the former Nissan executive took the helm. Tavares reiterated that he would honour previous agreements GM made with unions at Opel and Vauxhall, suggesting that jobs at Vauxhall’s Ellesmere Port and Luton factories would be safe until 2020. His assurances also suggest production of the current Vauxhall Astra at Ellesmere Port will be guaranteed until 2021, while the Vivaro van in Luton would be guaranteed until 2025. Unite said talks on a new model to replace the Astra would need to begin by late 2018. More than half Opel’s 35,600-member workforce are in Germany. Vauxhall employs about 4,600 people at Ellesmere Port and Luton, with a further 20,000 working in the carmaker’s showrooms; they also support a further 18,000 supply chain jobs. GM’s chief executive, Mary Barra, said without last summer’s Brexit vote, Opel and Vauxhall would have moved into profit last year. Tavares said in a soft Brexit scenario, the cheaper pound could boost Vauxhall’s competitiveness, and if the UK left the EU’s single market in a hard Brexit scenario, it would be a “very nice opportunity” to source more car parts from inside the UK, so costs and revenues were recorded in sterling. This would mean the UK supplier base needed to be developed, something the UK government “totally understands”, Tavares said. Len McCluskey, head of Unite union, said Vauxhall workers had endured a “nerve-racking” few weeks and needed assurances over the long-term future of the factories. He said: “Our plants are the most productive in the European operation. The brand is strong here, the market for the products is here, so the cars must be made here.” Greg Clark, the business secretary, said: “Vauxhall has a long history of success in this country and we are determined to see that continue. The government welcomes the assurance by PSA that they will respect the commitments made by GM to Vauxhall’s employees and pensioners. “We will continue to engage and work with PSA in the weeks and months ahead to ensure these assurances are kept and will build on the success of both sites for the long term. The prime minister and I have been in close contact with the PSA Group and General Motors and they have been clear this deal is an opportunity to grow the Vauxhall brand, building on their existing strengths and commitments.” The Labour MP for Ellesmere Port, Justin Madders, is meeting Clark on Monday, and said the Vauxhall takeover was an important test of the UK’s industrial strategy. He added: “There should be no doubt that one of the biggest selling points to UK consumers is that Vauxhall is a British brand that supports British jobs. That is something that I know will be stressed to PSA.” Most of Opel/Vauxhall’s European and UK pension plans will remain with GM, with the exception of the German Actives Plan and some smaller plans, which will be transferred to PSA. GM will pay PSA €3bn for full settlement of the pension obligations. Vauxhall’s pension plan has a deficit of £1bn while the Opel pension deficit is estimated at nearly €7bn. Labour MP Gavin Shuker, who represents Luton South, said: “Glad to see the uncertainty over the PSA/GM deal is now over. Our UK plants are among the most efficient of any in the new company. They deserve a bright future. Now government needs to play its part, delivering a Brexit deal that keeps Vauxhall building in the UK.” Labour MP Angela Eagle, whose the Merseyside constituency of Wallasey includes many Vauxhall workers, tweeted about the deal: Govt must be proactive after PSA GM sale to protect many thousands of jobs at Vauxhall and in the supply chain #PSAsale The deal is expected to close towards the end of this year and needs approval from antitrust authorities.  Vauxhall   Citroën   Volkswagen (VW)   Automotive industry   General Motors   Europe   news

The chief executive of the French company behind Peugeot and Citroën has vowed to turn Opel and Vauxhall around without factory closures or job cuts, after agreeing to buy General Motors’ lossmaking European arm for €2.2bn (£1.9bn).

The acquisition of Opel/Vauxhall, which generated revenues of €17.7bn last year, will transform PSA Group into the second-biggest carmaker in Europe, after Volkswagen.

PSA’s chief executive, Carlos Tavares, pointed to the French company’s track record and said employees at Vauxhall in the UK and Opel in Germany would be given a chance to reach the necessary “benchmark” of efficiency.

GM and PSA said the deal would create annual savings in purchasing, manufacturing, and research and development of €1.7bn by 2026, with most savings likely to be achieved by 2020 from purchasing. Tavares said the estimate did not include any job cuts.

He told a press conference in Paris: “We do not need to shut down plants … We believe we need to trust the talents of people. They always come up with ideas and solutions we could not imagine … Shutting down plants is rather simplistic.”



Tavares stressed that he had not closed any factories since he took over at PSA in 2014. The carmaker, which came close to bankruptcy and was bailed out by the French government and Chinese investors, shut a French factory just before the former Nissan executive took the helm.



Tavares reiterated that he would honour previous agreements GM made with unions at Opel and Vauxhall, suggesting that jobs at Vauxhall’s Ellesmere Port and Luton factories would be safe until 2020.

His assurances also suggest production of the current Vauxhall Astra at Ellesmere Port will be guaranteed until 2021, while the Vivaro van in Luton would be guaranteed until 2025. Unite said talks on a new model to replace the Astra would need to begin by late 2018.

More than half Opel’s 35,600-member workforce are in Germany. Vauxhall employs about 4,600 people at Ellesmere Port and Luton, with a further 20,000 working in the carmaker’s showrooms; they also support a further 18,000 supply chain jobs.

GM’s chief executive, Mary Barra, said without last summer’s Brexit vote, Opel and Vauxhall would have moved into profit last year.

Tavares said in a soft Brexit scenario, the cheaper pound could boost Vauxhall’s competitiveness, and if the UK left the EU’s single market in a hard Brexit scenario, it would be a “very nice opportunity” to source more car parts from inside the UK, so costs and revenues were recorded in sterling.

This would mean the UK supplier base needed to be developed, something the UK government “totally understands”, Tavares said.



Len McCluskey, head of Unite union, said Vauxhall workers had endured a “nerve-racking” few weeks and needed assurances over the long-term future of the factories. He said: “Our plants are the most productive in the European operation. The brand is strong here, the market for the products is here, so the cars must be made here.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Greg Clark, business secretary, welcomed the deal. Photograph: Victoria Jones/PA

Greg Clark, the business secretary, said: “Vauxhall has a long history of success in this country and we are determined to see that continue. The government welcomes the assurance by PSA that they will respect the commitments made by GM to Vauxhall’s employees and pensioners.

“We will continue to engage and work with PSA in the weeks and months ahead to ensure these assurances are kept and will build on the success of both sites for the long term. The prime minister and I have been in close contact with the PSA Group and General Motors and they have been clear this deal is an opportunity to grow the Vauxhall brand, building on their existing strengths and commitments.”

The Labour MP for Ellesmere Port, Justin Madders, is meeting Clark on Monday, and said the Vauxhall takeover was an important test of the UK’s industrial strategy. He added: “There should be no doubt that one of the biggest selling points to UK consumers is that Vauxhall is a British brand that supports British jobs. That is something that I know will be stressed to PSA.”

Most of Opel/Vauxhall’s European and UK pension plans will remain with GM, with the exception of the German Actives Plan and some smaller plans, which will be transferred to PSA. GM will pay PSA €3bn for full settlement of the pension obligations. Vauxhall’s pension plan has a deficit of £1bn while the Opel pension deficit is estimated at nearly €7bn.

Labour MP Gavin Shuker, who represents Luton South, said: “Glad to see the uncertainty over the PSA/GM deal is now over. Our UK plants are among the most efficient of any in the new company. They deserve a bright future. Now government needs to play its part, delivering a Brexit deal that keeps Vauxhall building in the UK.”

Labour MP Angela Eagle, whose the Merseyside constituency of Wallasey includes many Vauxhall workers, tweeted about the deal:

Angela Eagle (@angelaeagle) Govt must be proactive after PSA GM sale to protect many thousands of jobs at Vauxhall and in the supply chain #PSAsale

The deal is expected to close towards the end of this year and needs approval from antitrust authorities.

