Hormones and surgery do not make trans women 'real women', Dame Jenni Murray says
Hormones and surgery do not make trans women 'real women', Dame Jenni Murray says
Dame Jenni Murray has written of her fury over transgender women who claim the label of “real woman” despite being unschooled in sexual politics after years of living with male privilege. Stating at the outset that “I am not transphobic or anti-trans” she said transgender women who have not grown up with the “gendered socialisation” faced by girls cannot claim the title. The veteran BBC Radio 4 presenter admitted she was “diving headfirst into deep and dangerous waters” in a column for the , but disavowed the “unacceptably crude” language used by some feminist commentators on the issue. She also called for people inside and outside the LGBT community to be protected from bullying. She recounted a number of conversations with transgender women, including the late Rev Carol Stone, who transitioned a few short years after the Church of England ordained the first women priests. The encounter was the first time she felt anger “when a man claimed to be a woman”, Dame Jenni said. Transgender in Pakistan               Transgender in Pakistan       Dancing at Shakeela's party, an event to celebrate a transgender life in middle-age   Reuters        Venue staff members watch people dance at Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan   Reuters        Security searches guests as people arrive at Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan   Reuters        Members of the transgender community dance at Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan   Reuters        Shakeela, a member of the transgender community, works in the kitchen at home in Peshawar, Pakistan   Reuters        'It's the first time a transgender party has been held openly,' says activist Farzana Jan         Farzana Jan, a member of the transgender community, poses for a photographer ahead of Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan   Reuters        Guests at Shakeela's party   Reuters        Money thrown by the guests is used by people to help them start a new business or project         Rani smiles from behind her make-up as she prepares for the party   Reuters        Shakeela resting at her home in Peshawar   Reuters        A photo hangs on the wall in the home of members of the transgender community in Peshawar, Pakistan   Reuters        Make up lies on the floor as members of the transgender community prepare for Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan   Reuters        A guest counts money she plans to throw at Shakeela's party   Reuters        Bubbly helps Shakeela with her dress as members of her own family watch on   Reuters        Chahat, a member of the transgender community, prepares for Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan   Reuters  Rev Stone’s “primary concerns, she told me, were finding the most suitable dress in which to meet her parishioners in her new persona and deciding if she should wear make-up or not”. Dame Jenni wrote: “I thought of all those women who had spent years and years challenging what being female had meant as they sat in the pews on a Sunday morning: 2,000 years of institutionalised patriarchy. “It was news to Carol that life as a woman, especially a middle-aged woman, stepping into male territory in which she was unwelcome would be extremely tough.” And Dame Jenni criticised the broadcaster India Willoughby who she said “held firmly to her belief that she was a ‘real woman’, ignoring the fact that she had spent all of her life before her transition enjoying the privileged position in our society generally accorded to a man,” Dame Jenni said. “In a discussion about the Dorchester hotel’s demands that its female staff should always wear make-up, have a manicure and wear stockings over shaved legs, she was perfectly happy to go along with such requirements. “There wasn’t a hint of understanding that she was simply playing into the stereotype – a man’s idea of what a woman should be. She described hairy legs on a woman as ‘dirty’.” Thank you @whjm for a thoughtful piece. Socialisation cannot be ignored. I'm transwoman and I get this. https://t.co/H0Fj8fNpKc When Simone de Beauvoir wrote that a girl is not born a woman but rather becomes one, “she did not mean that an individual born into the male sex, socialised into the expectation of the masculine gender, can simply decide to take hormones and maybe have surgery and ‘become a woman’,” Dame Jenni said. The column has provoked anger online but also attracted some support. Rachel Cohen, campaigns director at Stonewall, said: “Whether you are trans or not, your identity is yours alone. I do not question your identity Jenni, and in return, I wouldn’t expect you to question mine, or anyone else’s. “What right would you have to do so? My experiences of being a woman are undoubtedly different to yours. However, their differences do not make them in any way less valid. Read more California bans students from state-funded trips to anti-LGBT states UK's first LGBT retirement home announced by Manchester city council Same-sex marriage laws linked to drop in teen suicides “Trans women have every right to have their identity and experiences respected too. They are women – just like you and me – and their sense of their gender is as engrained in their identity as yours or mine.” Ms Willoughby tweeted that she will “be addressing Dame Jenni Murray’s offensive remarks tomorrow... watch this space.” Physics teacher Debbie Hayton thanked Dame Jenni for a “thoughtful” article and said: “Socialisation cannot be ignored. I’m transwoman and I get this.” More about: dame jenni murray transgender issues

Dame Jenni Murray has written of her fury over transgender women who claim the label of “real woman” despite being unschooled in sexual politics after years of living with male privilege.

Stating at the outset that “I am not transphobic or anti-trans” she said transgender women who have not grown up with the “gendered socialisation” faced by girls cannot claim the title.

The veteran BBC Radio 4 Woman’s Hour presenter admitted she was “diving headfirst into deep and dangerous waters” in a column for the Sunday Times Magazine, but disavowed the “unacceptably crude” language used by some feminist commentators on the issue. She also called for people inside and outside the LGBT community to be protected from bullying.

She recounted a number of conversations with transgender women, including the late Rev Carol Stone, who transitioned a few short years after the Church of England ordained the first women priests. The encounter was the first time she felt anger “when a man claimed to be a woman”, Dame Jenni said.

Transgender in Pakistan







16 show all Transgender in Pakistan





























1/16 Dancing at Shakeela's party, an event to celebrate a transgender life in middle-age Reuters

2/16 Venue staff members watch people dance at Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan Reuters

3/16 Security searches guests as people arrive at Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan Reuters

4/16 Members of the transgender community dance at Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan Reuters

5/16 Shakeela, a member of the transgender community, works in the kitchen at home in Peshawar, Pakistan Reuters

6/16 'It's the first time a transgender party has been held openly,' says activist Farzana Jan

7/16 Farzana Jan, a member of the transgender community, poses for a photographer ahead of Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan Reuters

8/16 Guests at Shakeela's party Reuters

9/16 Money thrown by the guests is used by people to help them start a new business or project

10/16 Rani smiles from behind her make-up as she prepares for the party Reuters

11/16 Shakeela resting at her home in Peshawar Reuters

12/16 A photo hangs on the wall in the home of members of the transgender community in Peshawar, Pakistan Reuters

13/16 Make up lies on the floor as members of the transgender community prepare for Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan Reuters

14/16 A guest counts money she plans to throw at Shakeela's party Reuters

15/16 Bubbly helps Shakeela with her dress as members of her own family watch on Reuters

16/16 Chahat, a member of the transgender community, prepares for Shakeela's party in Peshawar, Pakistan Reuters

Rev Stone’s “primary concerns, she told me, were finding the most suitable dress in which to meet her parishioners in her new persona and deciding if she should wear make-up or not”.

Dame Jenni wrote: “I thought of all those women who had spent years and years challenging what being female had meant as they sat in the pews on a Sunday morning: 2,000 years of institutionalised patriarchy.

“It was news to Carol that life as a woman, especially a middle-aged woman, stepping into male territory in which she was unwelcome would be extremely tough.”

And Dame Jenni criticised the broadcaster India Willoughby who she said “held firmly to her belief that she was a ‘real woman’, ignoring the fact that she had spent all of her life before her transition enjoying the privileged position in our society generally accorded to a man,” Dame Jenni said.

“In a discussion about the Dorchester hotel’s demands that its female staff should always wear make-up, have a manicure and wear stockings over shaved legs, she was perfectly happy to go along with such requirements.

“There wasn’t a hint of understanding that she was simply playing into the stereotype – a man’s idea of what a woman should be. She described hairy legs on a woman as ‘dirty’.”

Thank you @whjm for a thoughtful piece. Socialisation cannot be ignored. I'm transwoman and I get this. https://t.co/H0Fj8fNpKc — Debbie Hayton (@DebbieHayton) March 5, 2017

When Simone de Beauvoir wrote that a girl is not born a woman but rather becomes one, “she did not mean that an individual born into the male sex, socialised into the expectation of the masculine gender, can simply decide to take hormones and maybe have surgery and ‘become a woman’,” Dame Jenni said.

The column has provoked anger online but also attracted some support.

Rachel Cohen, campaigns director at Stonewall, said: “Whether you are trans or not, your identity is yours alone. I do not question your identity Jenni, and in return, I wouldn’t expect you to question mine, or anyone else’s.

“What right would you have to do so? My experiences of being a woman are undoubtedly different to yours. However, their differences do not make them in any way less valid.

“Trans women have every right to have their identity and experiences respected too. They are women – just like you and me – and their sense of their gender is as engrained in their identity as yours or mine.”

Ms Willoughby tweeted that she will “be addressing Dame Jenni Murray’s offensive remarks tomorrow... watch this space.”

Physics teacher Debbie Hayton thanked Dame Jenni for a “thoughtful” article and said: “Socialisation cannot be ignored. I’m transwoman and I get this.”