Former Bush attorney general says he believes there was surveillance on Trump Tower
Former Bush attorney general says he believes there was surveillance on Trump Tower
Former Attorney General Michael Mukasey has said it is likely there was surveillance on Trump Tower but the order is unlikely to have come from the White House. Mr Mukasey, who served under George W Bush between 2007 and 2009, said it is likely that the FBI would have monitored Trump Tower but it would have been authorised by the Attorney General or the Justice Department rather than Barack Obama himself. He told ABC News : “It means there must have been a basis to believe that somebody in Trump Tower may have been acting as an agent of the Russians for whatever purpose – not necessarily the election – but for some purpose.” The lawyer said it was common for the FBI to keep track of people who act, or appear to act, as an agent of a foreign government. Read more White House calls for investigation into alleged Trump wiretapping Donald Trump's wiretap claim could backfire Even Donald Trump officials 'don't know' where wiretap claims are from “They keep track of people who act as agents of the Chinese, the Russians, the Israelis, everybody”, he explained. The White House doubled down on the allegations, which Mr Obama has denied, on Sunday when it called for an investigation by Congress but refused to provide any evidence to back up the claim. Mr Trump tweeted about the allegations on Saturday but they appear to have come from a report by alt-right website Breitbart on Friday which also did not provide any evidence. It comes as the scandal over his administration’s links to the Kremlin reared its head once more after his Attorney General Jeff Sessions was found to have met with the Russian ambassador during the election campaign. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images  Mr Sessions, who has since recused himself from the investigation into apparent Russian interference in last year's presidential election election by Justice Department, told Congress – under oath – he had no dealings with Russia during the campaign.  The former Alabama senator was a key advisor on foreign policy during Mr Trump’s campaign and served as vice-chairman of his transition team. The question of Russian meddling has haunted the Trump administration since his surprise victory in November.   If Watergate weighs heavily on Trump's mind it's not hard to guess why Russian hackers were widely blamed for the leak of a series of damaging emails exchange between leading members of the Democratic National Committee (DNC). In the days following the leak, Mr Trump gleefully called for Russian agents to hack in his rival Hillary Clinton’s emails from the time she was Secretary of State. He later denied having ever met Russian President Vladimir Putin despite footage from TV interviews he had conducted in October 2015 where he said they had “got along great” when they met . More about: Donald Trump Russia Trump Tower wiretapping Barack Obama Vladimir Putin Comments

Former Attorney General Michael Mukasey has said it is likely there was surveillance on Trump Tower but the order is unlikely to have come from the White House.

Mr Mukasey, who served under George W Bush between 2007 and 2009, said it is likely that the FBI would have monitored Trump Tower but it would have been authorised by the Attorney General or the Justice Department rather than Barack Obama himself.

He told ABC News: “It means there must have been a basis to believe that somebody in Trump Tower may have been acting as an agent of the Russians for whatever purpose – not necessarily the election – but for some purpose.”

The lawyer said it was common for the FBI to keep track of people who act, or appear to act, as an agent of a foreign government.

“They keep track of people who act as agents of the Chinese, the Russians, the Israelis, everybody”, he explained.

The White House doubled down on the allegations, which Mr Obama has denied, on Sunday when it called for an investigation by Congress but refused to provide any evidence to back up the claim.

Mr Trump tweeted about the allegations on Saturday but they appear to have come from a report by alt-right website Breitbart on Friday which also did not provide any evidence.

It comes as the scandal over his administration’s links to the Kremlin reared its head once more after his Attorney General Jeff Sessions was found to have met with the Russian ambassador during the election campaign.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







8 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued













1/8 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

2/8 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

3/8 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

4/8 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

5/8 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

6/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

7/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

8/8 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

Mr Sessions, who has since recused himself from the investigation into apparent Russian interference in last year's presidential election election by Justice Department, told Congress – under oath – he had no dealings with Russia during the campaign.

The former Alabama senator was a key advisor on foreign policy during Mr Trump’s campaign and served as vice-chairman of his transition team.

The question of Russian meddling has haunted the Trump administration since his surprise victory in November.

Russian hackers were widely blamed for the leak of a series of damaging emails exchange between leading members of the Democratic National Committee (DNC).

In the days following the leak, Mr Trump gleefully called for Russian agents to hack in his rival Hillary Clinton’s emails from the time she was Secretary of State.

He later denied having ever met Russian President Vladimir Putin despite footage from TV interviews he had conducted in October 2015 where he said they had “got along great” when they met.