Top Gear review roundup: How did Matt LeBlanc, Rory Reid and Chris Harris do?
Top Gear review roundup: How did Matt LeBlanc, Rory Reid and Chris Harris do?
It’s no secret Chris Evans wasn’t right for Acting as a presenter last season, the radio host’s tenure was met with widely negative reviews and the rating plummeted. Last night, the newly rebooted series debuted on BBC One, the new presenting line-up of Matt LeBlanc, Rory Reid and Chris Harris being met with mixed reviews. has been primarily positive, awarding the first episode four stars, saying that, despite “a few clunking elements still need tinkering with, the all-new nonetheless impressed as it left the starting grid.” Other publications, including and , displayed similar sentiments, praising the show as being better than when Evans was in charge but criticising the studio elements as ‘feeling forced’. Things you never knew about Top Gear               Things you never knew about Top Gear    Top Gear isn't really for adults   It's 'aimed at people with a mental age of nine', according to executive producer Andy Wilman.   BBC     Planet Earth loves it...   Top Gear is screened in more than 100 countries worldwide and has millions of fans.   BBC     ...but not all motoring hacks do   You might think Jezza was a hero of the motoring hack world but that's not strictly accurate.  Telegraph journalist Neil Lyndon summed Top Gear's 21st birthday last year up well: 'Does that mean Billy Bunter and his gang finally get forced out of the Fourth Remove and into long trousers?'   BBC     The Top Gear theme tune is a classic rock song   Seven-minute instrumental 'Jessica' by The Allman Brothers was a hit in 1973. Top Gear has recorded its own version now but used part of the original recording at first. One for the road trip playlist.      Jeremy Clarkson couldn't get much more controversial if he tried   The presenter is currently suspended from the BBC following a 'fracas' with a producer over a steak dinner. Past scandals include a string of racism allegations.   PA     This Porsche caused all sorts of trouble in Argentina   The Top Gear team were forced to flee Argentina after locals took offence at the car's number plate - believing it was a deliberately provocative reference to the Falklands War of 1982.   AP     If it's car-buying advice you want, look elsewhere   It's an in-joke in Top Gear that they don't do car tests. You would be mad to make a purchases based on Jezza's verdict.   Getty Images     Richard Hammond had a near-death experience filming Top Gear   The 'Hamster' was filming a Top Gear segment in a dragster called Vampire when its front-right tyre burst at 288mph. Hammond spent two weeks in a coma but luckily went on to make a full recovery. He requested that no mention of the crash was made in future Top Gear episodes.   Getty     Jeremy Clarkson is more than a little bit taller than Richard Hammond   Nine inches, to be precise.   Rex     Top Gear used to offer real advice   Before these lads took over, it was a real car-reviewing show with presenters such as Angela Rippon, who gave practical reviews of down-to-earth workhorses such as Cavaliers or Mini Metros.   Getty Images     Those 'reasonably priced' cars take quite a battering   Denis Chick, of Vauxhall, is brave to have lent the show a fleet of his Astras. He said: "Vauxhall Astra sales would not improve if everyone drove like Jimmy Carr around the Dunsfold track." The comedian hilariously took his test car's front off-side tyre clean off its rim.   BBC     Jeremy Clarkson is a YouTube star   Stray down the motoring internet hole and you'll find lovingly posted videos of 'Clarkson the early years' with incredibly loud hair reviewing 1990s cars in an oddly sensible manner. Very disturbing viewing.   Getty Images     There have been multiple Stigs   Racing driver Perry McCarthy was stuntsman The Stig on the first two series of Top Gear - here's the man under that famous helmet.   Rex Features     Ben Collins was The Stig for eight years   Ben Collins was The Stig on Top Gear for eight years. He left amid a clash with the BBC when he unmasked his identity and published an autobiography. Collins thinks Top Gear has 'lost some of its sparkle'.   Rex Features  In one of the more scathing reviews, wrote how the much-lauded chemistry of reins presenting trio Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May was missing. “Yes, chemistry takes time, but there may not be much time, if ratings continue to go the way they did last series… Chris and Rory need to relax, and maybe sit down with Matt and a bottle of Kazakhstan vodka, get drunk, figure out who they are, and develop some kind of relationship”.   The best BBC and Top Gear digs in The Grand Tour's first episode were the most middling, calling the new trio a “tribute act” to the previous trio, making snide remarks about Evans while concluding: “they clearly long to be Clarkson and the gang, but, at the moment, they’re actually more like two Richard Hammonds and an American James May.” Perhaps noteworthy is that Clarkson and Co's latest show - - received applause upon initial release , despite some further controversy down the line.  returns next Sunday on BBC One. More about: Top Gear Matt LeBlanc BBC Comments

It’s no secret Chris Evans wasn’t right for Top Gear. Acting as a presenter last season, the radio host’s tenure was met with widely negative reviews and the rating plummeted.

Last night, the newly rebooted series debuted on BBC One, the new presenting line-up of Matt LeBlanc, Rory Reid and Chris Harris being met with mixed reviews.

The Telegraph has been primarily positive, awarding the first episode four stars, saying that, despite “a few clunking elements still need tinkering with, the all-new Top Gear nonetheless impressed as it left the starting grid.”

Other publications, including Radio Times and Digital Spy, displayed similar sentiments, praising the show as being better than when Evans was in charge but criticising the studio elements as ‘feeling forced’.

Things you never knew about Top Gear







14 show all Things you never knew about Top Gear

























1/14 Top Gear isn't really for adults It's 'aimed at people with a mental age of nine', according to executive producer Andy Wilman. BBC

2/14 Planet Earth loves it... Top Gear is screened in more than 100 countries worldwide and has millions of fans. BBC

3/14 ...but not all motoring hacks do You might think Jezza was a hero of the motoring hack world but that's not strictly accurate. Telegraph journalist Neil Lyndon summed Top Gear's 21st birthday last year up well: 'Does that mean Billy Bunter and his gang finally get forced out of the Fourth Remove and into long trousers?' BBC

4/14 The Top Gear theme tune is a classic rock song Seven-minute instrumental 'Jessica' by The Allman Brothers was a hit in 1973. Top Gear has recorded its own version now but used part of the original recording at first. One for the road trip playlist.

5/14 Jeremy Clarkson couldn't get much more controversial if he tried The presenter is currently suspended from the BBC following a 'fracas' with a producer over a steak dinner. Past scandals include a string of racism allegations. PA

6/14 This Porsche caused all sorts of trouble in Argentina The Top Gear team were forced to flee Argentina after locals took offence at the car's number plate - believing it was a deliberately provocative reference to the Falklands War of 1982. AP

7/14 If it's car-buying advice you want, look elsewhere It's an in-joke in Top Gear that they don't do car tests. You would be mad to make a purchases based on Jezza's verdict. Getty Images

8/14 Richard Hammond had a near-death experience filming Top Gear The 'Hamster' was filming a Top Gear segment in a dragster called Vampire when its front-right tyre burst at 288mph. Hammond spent two weeks in a coma but luckily went on to make a full recovery. He requested that no mention of the crash was made in future Top Gear episodes. Getty

9/14 Jeremy Clarkson is more than a little bit taller than Richard Hammond Nine inches, to be precise. Rex

10/14 Top Gear used to offer real advice Before these lads took over, it was a real car-reviewing show with presenters such as Angela Rippon, who gave practical reviews of down-to-earth workhorses such as Cavaliers or Mini Metros. Getty Images

11/14 Those 'reasonably priced' cars take quite a battering Denis Chick, of Vauxhall, is brave to have lent the show a fleet of his Astras. He said: "Vauxhall Astra sales would not improve if everyone drove like Jimmy Carr around the Dunsfold track." The comedian hilariously took his test car's front off-side tyre clean off its rim. BBC

12/14 Jeremy Clarkson is a YouTube star Stray down the motoring internet hole and you'll find lovingly posted videos of 'Clarkson the early years' with incredibly loud hair reviewing 1990s cars in an oddly sensible manner. Very disturbing viewing. Getty Images

13/14 There have been multiple Stigs Racing driver Perry McCarthy was stuntsman The Stig on the first two series of Top Gear - here's the man under that famous helmet. Rex Features

14/14 Ben Collins was The Stig for eight years Ben Collins was The Stig on Top Gear for eight years. He left amid a clash with the BBC when he unmasked his identity and published an autobiography. Collins thinks Top Gear has 'lost some of its sparkle'. Rex Features

In one of the more scathing reviews, The Guardian wrote how the much-lauded chemistry of reins presenting trio Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May was missing.

“Yes, chemistry takes time, but there may not be much time, if ratings continue to go the way they did last series… Chris and Rory need to relax, and maybe sit down with Matt and a bottle of Kazakhstan vodka, get drunk, figure out who they are, and develop some kind of relationship”.

The Sun were the most middling, calling the new trio a “tribute act” to the previous trio, making snide remarks about Evans while concluding: “they clearly long to be Clarkson and the gang, but, at the moment, they’re actually more like two Richard Hammonds and an American James May.”

Perhaps noteworthy is that Clarkson and Co's latest show - The Grand Tour - received applause upon initial release, despite some further controversy down the line.

Top Gear returns next Sunday on BBC One.