Parents angered as 'Jojo Bows' banned in schools across the country
Parents angered as 'Jojo Bows' banned in schools across the country
arents across the country have vented their annoyance on social media after schools have banned the latest tween craze: 'Jojo Bows'. These oversized hair bows cost around £12 each in some stores, and mothers on social media have vented their annoyance after splashing out on the accessories, only for them to be banned shortly after. The popular accessories came to prominence because they are worn by popular 13-year-old social media star JoJo Siwa, a dancer and singer from Nebraska in the US.  You guys are the best💕 A post shared by JoJo Siwa (@itsjojosiwa) on "I've always just worn bows" JoJo told CBBC's Newsround . "They just got bigger and better and sparklier - and then I became 'JoJo with the bow bow' and it became a thing." owever, schools across the country have banned the hair bows, as they do not comply with some school uniform codes and are 'distracting'. That #babycino tasted good #jojobows  pic.twitter.com/C9S8OZlGom ne Mumsnet user revealed they were banned in her daughter's school because they caused bullying. She wrote: "Yes, they fuelled a type of bullying so the headteacher banned them outright.  Fortunately my daughter thought they looked ridiculous so was never drawn into that particularly hideous fad." I just don't get these JoJo Bows - I think they're the ugliest most ridiculous things I've ever seen?!? Obvs Carys wants one though 😔... nother mother commented that they had been banned at her daughter's school "because of the 'that's not a real jojo bow' and the competitiveness of them. E.g. How many and which colours and do you have the limited edition ones!" Some have spoken out about the ban, saying schools should be tackling bigger issues. One woman commented on Twitter: "How about we deal with kids being bullied in school and committing suicide rather than banning !" nother said: "Seriously? Schools are banning JoJo bows? Better that they concentrate on teaching, stopping drug use/smoking in schools & better sex ed." @leonardhudsonuk  #jojobows shouldn't be banned. It doesn't stop kids from learning. It also makes them look tidy. No harm being done at all Just seen an article about UK schools banning #JoJoBows (huge bow hair clip basically)...seriously? It's made of ribbon not razor blades nd another commented: "They shouldn't be banned. It doesn't stop kids from learning. It also makes them look tidy. No harm being done at all". One mother wrote on Mumsnet: "Who here didn't wear something daft when they were a kid. It's harmless, I personally think they look ridiculous but it's not my head." According to Department of Education guidelines , schools are within their rights to ban the bows.

Parents across the country have vented their annoyance on social media after schools have banned the latest tween craze: 'Jojo Bows'.

These oversized hair bows cost around £12 each in some stores, and mothers on social media have vented their annoyance after splashing out on the accessories, only for them to be banned shortly after.

The popular accessories came to prominence because they are worn by popular 13-year-old social media star JoJo Siwa, a dancer and singer from Nebraska in the US.