Texas 'wrongful birth' bill would allow doctors to lie, critics say
Texas 'wrongful birth' bill would allow doctors to lie, critics say
Texas 'wrongful birth' bill would allow doctors to lie, critics say Updated 1004 GMT (1804 HKT) March 6, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights A Texas bill would prevent parents from suing their doctor if their baby is born with a disability Supporters say it protects doctors from "wrongful birth" lawsuits and protects rights of disabled The Texas Senate may soon decide on a bill that prevents parents from suing their doctor if their baby is born with a disability -- a move abortion-rights supporters say will result in doctors lying to patients about the health of fetuses. 'This bill would be wrong' 'Sad to be here' See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter .

Story highlights A Texas bill would prevent parents from suing their doctor if their baby is born with a disability

Supporters say it protects doctors from "wrongful birth" lawsuits and protects rights of disabled

(CNN) The Texas Senate may soon decide on a bill that prevents parents from suing their doctor if their baby is born with a disability -- a move abortion-rights supporters say will result in doctors lying to patients about the health of fetuses.

Supporters of the measure, Senate Bill 25, say it is needed to protect doctors from "wrongful birth" lawsuits and to protect the rights of the disabled.

"Senate Bill 25 will send a message that Texas does not believe that a life, in and of itself, is an injury in which parents need a damage payment," said state Sen. Brandon Creighton, the bill's author and a Republican from a town about 45 miles north of Houston.

The bill was brought before the Texas Senate Committee on State Affairs last week in a hearing with dramatic and emotional public debate.

Opponents said the bill would open the door to doctors to lying to patients about the health of their fetuses when they feel that the patient might seek an abortion if told that the fetus has a long-term health problem.

Read More