Bird flu detected in chicken breeding facility in Tennessee
Bird flu detected in chicken breeding facility in Tennessee
Shares                A commercial chicken breeding facility in south-central Tennessee has been hit by a strain of bird flu, agriculture officials said Sunday. The state Agriculture Department said in a news release that tests confirmed the presence of the H7 strain of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza , or HPAI, at a facility in Lincoln County. The facility alerted the state veterinarian's office on Friday about an increase in chicken deaths. The statement did not name the facility. The facility and about 30 other poultry farms within about a six-mile radius of the site are under quarantine. "Animal health is our top priority," said Dr. Charles Hatcher, the state veterinarian. "With this HPAI detection, we are moving quickly and aggressively to prevent the virus from spreading." The U.S. Department of Agriculture said 73,500 chickens are in the facility's flock. Officials said HPAI poses no risk to the food supply, and no affected chickens entered the food chain. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, HPAI can cause up to 100 percent mortality in flocks, often within 48 hours. "Many Tennessee families rely on the poultry industry for their livelihoods, and the state is working closely with local, county and federal partners and the poultry industry to control the situation and protect the flocks that are critical to our state's economy," Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam said. According to the Tennessee Poultry Association, there are more than 1,650 commercial broiler and breeder houses on more than 550 family farms in the state. The state ranks 13th nationally in broiler production and processing with more than 6 million birds per week at five plants. The statement said the most recent U.S. detection of HPAI was in January 2016 in a commercial turkey flock in Indiana. More than 414,000 turkeys and chickens were euthanized to contain the outbreak. In 2015, U.S. poultry producers, primarily in the upper Midwest, lost more than 48 million birds to bird flu. Minnesota, the country's top turkey producer, and Iowa, the top chicken-egg producer, were the hardest-hit states. Shares                  Bird flu detected in chicken breeding facility in Tennessee   New travel ban drops Iraq but keeps six other majority-Muslim countries   Supreme Court scraps case on transgender bathroom rights   Israeli minister: US warned Israel about annexing West Bank   NCIS investigating posting of nude photos of female Marines   Afghan family with visas held in Calif. and attorneys are asking why   Film spotlights human trafficking as Trump promises action   Are high heel dress codes sexist? UK lawmakers hold debate   Journalist throws up during plane proposal to girlfriend   Young couple finds it 'freeing' to travel the country in a converted van   'Dobby' the newborn giraffe gets plasma treatment to bolster immune system   5th-grader who gave marketing advice to Tesla is 'really, really excited' it's using her idea   Rare penicillin mold auctioned for more than $14K   Malaysia, North Korea expel ambassadors over Kim's death   Congressman apologizes for crude joke about Kellyanne Conway   Chrissy Teigen opens up about battle with postpartum depression   'Bachelor' contestants reunite and reflect in drama-filled 'Women Tell All' special   Amy Schumer dishes on her Netflix special, gets surprise from Bachelor Nick Viall   Syrian fighters cut main road linking IS-held areas   Sikhs respond to shooting near Seattle with fear, disbelief   'Flip or Flop' star reveals battle with cancer   'Logan' slices box office with $85.3M, 'Moonlight' gets bump   Bruno Mars, Justin Timberlake shine at iHeartRadio Awards

A commercial chicken breeding facility in south-central Tennessee has been hit by a strain of bird flu, agriculture officials said Sunday.

The state Agriculture Department said in a news release that tests confirmed the presence of the H7 strain of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza, or HPAI, at a facility in Lincoln County. The facility alerted the state veterinarian's office on Friday about an increase in chicken deaths.

The statement did not name the facility. The facility and about 30 other poultry farms within about a six-mile radius of the site are under quarantine.

"Animal health is our top priority," said Dr. Charles Hatcher, the state veterinarian. "With this HPAI detection, we are moving quickly and aggressively to prevent the virus from spreading."

The U.S. Department of Agriculture said 73,500 chickens are in the facility's flock.

Officials said HPAI poses no risk to the food supply, and no affected chickens entered the food chain.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, HPAI can cause up to 100 percent mortality in flocks, often within 48 hours.

"Many Tennessee families rely on the poultry industry for their livelihoods, and the state is working closely with local, county and federal partners and the poultry industry to control the situation and protect the flocks that are critical to our state's economy," Tennessee Gov. Bill Haslam said.

According to the Tennessee Poultry Association, there are more than 1,650 commercial broiler and breeder houses on more than 550 family farms in the state. The state ranks 13th nationally in broiler production and processing with more than 6 million birds per week at five plants.

The statement said the most recent U.S. detection of HPAI was in January 2016 in a commercial turkey flock in Indiana. More than 414,000 turkeys and chickens were euthanized to contain the outbreak.

In 2015, U.S. poultry producers, primarily in the upper Midwest, lost more than 48 million birds to bird flu. Minnesota, the country's top turkey producer, and Iowa, the top chicken-egg producer, were the hardest-hit states.