Karrueche Tran Reportedly Seeking Permanent Restraining Order Against Chris Brown
Karrueche Tran Reportedly Seeking Permanent Restraining Order Against Chris Brown
Karrueche Tran is reportedly "preparing her case" for a permanent restraining order against Chris Brown , according to . Tran is currently getting ready to face off with Brown in court Thursday, where she's expected to tell a judge that Brown must be kept away from her "for good." Tran, according to  's sources, has been trying to serve Brown with the previously reported temporary restraining order approved last month. However, Brown has reportedly managed to evade getting served on three separate occasions. The initial emergency order required Brown to stay away from Tran after she alleged that he was threatening her and telling friends "if he couldn't have her, no one else could,"  said . According to the , Tran also accused Brown of "punching her in the stomach and pushing her down stairs" a few years ago. In her filing, Tran said no one else was present at the time of these alleged incidents. In addition to reportedly prepping her case for the permanent restraining order, Tran is "determined" to show a judge that Brown's threats should be taken seriously. Tran,  claimed in their report, wants Brown to be faced with the following choice: Stay away for three years or go to jail. In response to 's recent investigative report alleging his "downward spiral," Brown told fans on social media last week that he was doing fine. "I'm tired of reading about some shit as soon as I got something poppin," Brown said. "As soon as I want to promote a tour, party, fucking album, anything, y'all bring up something. "

Karrueche Tran is reportedly "preparing her case" for a permanent restraining order against Chris Brown, according to TMZ. Tran is currently getting ready to face off with Brown in court Thursday, where she's expected to tell a judge that Brown must be kept away from her "for good."

Tran, according to TMZ's sources, has been trying to serve Brown with the previously reported temporary restraining order approved last month. However, Brown has reportedly managed to evade getting served on three separate occasions. The initial emergency order required Brown to stay away from Tran after she alleged that he was threatening her and telling friends "if he couldn't have her, no one else could," TMZ said. According to the Associated Press, Tran also accused Brown of "punching her in the stomach and pushing her down stairs" a few years ago. In her filing, Tran said no one else was present at the time of these alleged incidents.

In addition to reportedly prepping her case for the permanent restraining order, Tran is "determined" to show a judge that Brown's threats should be taken seriously. Tran, TMZ claimed in their report, wants Brown to be faced with the following choice: Stay away for three years or go to jail.

In response to Billboard's recent investigative report alleging his "downward spiral," Brown told fans on social media last week that he was doing fine. "I'm tired of reading about some shit as soon as I got something poppin," Brown said. "As soon as I want to promote a tour, party, fucking album, anything, y'all bring up something. "