Imelda Staunton is right: eating in your seat is a crime against theatre

Contact author    allelujah! Imelda Staunton has had the courage to speak out against the practice of theatregoers eating during a play , saying: “I don’t see why people can’t just engage in one thing.” To back this up, the Ambassador Theatre Group has now asked patrons not to consume food during Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? , in which Staunton is currently starring at London’s Harold Pinter theatre. Given Pinter’s well-known dislike of anything that interrupted concentration, I’m sure he would endorse this attempt to stamp out the growing tendency for people to masticate enthusiastically in the stalls. I’ve only lately become aware of how popular this is. West End producers, quietly and without fuss, have increasingly adopted the New York habit of inviting critics to attend a choice of previews. This has two great advantages. It means there’s no jostling in those first-night scrums where you can hardly move for air-kissing B-list celebrities. In addition, we don’t have to rush out of theatres – as if, as Richard Eyre said, our trousers were on fire – to file instant copy. But it also means we encounter some of the regular hazards confronting all theatregoers. One of the worst is that some people bring takeaway meals in with them, which they noisily consume. Some theatres, I’ve discovered, even encourage the practice by supplying a meal-and-drink package, as if their patrons might die of hunger or thirst during the arduous business of watching a play. Does it matter? I think it does, because a play works best when a collective act of audience concentration enhances the rigorous focus that the actors are working to achieve. When I was chatting about this to a colleague, I said it was a bit like a seance. In retrospect, that strikes me as a rather precious comparison, since we’re not sitting with eyes closed making fingertip contact (or not often, anyway). But we are engaging in a shared experience in which cast and audience are seeking to transcend the atomised isolation of our everyday lives. If people in the stalls are chomping, slurping, texting or crunching the plastic beakers containing their post-interval drinks then that becomes more difficult. I can see that there are exceptions to the anti-consumption rule. I’ve been to dinner theatres in the midwest of the US where a musical strikes up as you finish your meal. Brasserie Zédel in the heart of London also has a nightly cabaret – formerly known as the Crazy Coqs –where you sit with a drink while listening to a chanteuse; it was the formidable Donna McKechnie last time I went. Brecht, who hated the “mass hypnosis” of illusionist plays, even advocated in the 1920s a “smoker’s theatre where the audience would puff away at cigars as as if watching a boxing match”. I can’t see that catching on today. But I think even Brecht, who wanted theatre audiences to match the knowledgeable detachment of some sporting spectators, would have been horrified if he’d seen just how greedily and selfishly consumerist some theatregoers have become. Not all, and not everywhere. But Staunton was right to speak out for those who want to engage totally with a play and watch Virginia Woolf without simultaneously wolfing down a three-course meal.  Theatre   West End   Imelda Staunton   blogposts

Hallelujah! Imelda Staunton has had the courage to speak out against the practice of theatregoers eating during a play, saying: “I don’t see why people can’t just engage in one thing.” To back this up, the Ambassador Theatre Group has now asked patrons not to consume food during Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, in which Staunton is currently starring at London’s Harold Pinter theatre. Given Pinter’s well-known dislike of anything that interrupted concentration, I’m sure he would endorse this attempt to stamp out the growing tendency for people to masticate enthusiastically in the stalls.

Game of Thrones fans 'ruined theatre show by eating chicken nuggets' Read more

I’ve only lately become aware of how popular this is. West End producers, quietly and without fuss, have increasingly adopted the New York habit of inviting critics to attend a choice of previews. This has two great advantages. It means there’s no jostling in those first-night scrums where you can hardly move for air-kissing B-list celebrities. In addition, we don’t have to rush out of theatres – as if, as Richard Eyre said, our trousers were on fire – to file instant copy.

But it also means we encounter some of the regular hazards confronting all theatregoers. One of the worst is that some people bring takeaway meals in with them, which they noisily consume. Some theatres, I’ve discovered, even encourage the practice by supplying a meal-and-drink package, as if their patrons might die of hunger or thirst during the arduous business of watching a play.

Does it matter? I think it does, because a play works best when a collective act of audience concentration enhances the rigorous focus that the actors are working to achieve. When I was chatting about this to a colleague, I said it was a bit like a seance. In retrospect, that strikes me as a rather precious comparison, since we’re not sitting with eyes closed making fingertip contact (or not often, anyway). But we are engaging in a shared experience in which cast and audience are seeking to transcend the atomised isolation of our everyday lives. If people in the stalls are chomping, slurping, texting or crunching the plastic beakers containing their post-interval drinks then that becomes more difficult.

Imelda Staunton calls for ban on eating and drinking in theatres Read more

I can see that there are exceptions to the anti-consumption rule. I’ve been to dinner theatres in the midwest of the US where a musical strikes up as you finish your meal. Brasserie Zédel in the heart of London also has a nightly cabaret – formerly known as the Crazy Coqs –where you sit with a drink while listening to a chanteuse; it was the formidable Donna McKechnie last time I went. Brecht, who hated the “mass hypnosis” of illusionist plays, even advocated in the 1920s a “smoker’s theatre where the audience would puff away at cigars as as if watching a boxing match”. I can’t see that catching on today.

But I think even Brecht, who wanted theatre audiences to match the knowledgeable detachment of some sporting spectators, would have been horrified if he’d seen just how greedily and selfishly consumerist some theatregoers have become. Not all, and not everywhere. But Staunton was right to speak out for those who want to engage totally with a play and watch Virginia Woolf without simultaneously wolfing down a three-course meal.