Google Home spreads bizarre conspiracy theory about Barack Obama
Google Home spreads bizarre conspiracy theory about Barack Obama 
oogle has been caught up in the controversy over fake news after being accused of promoting a false conspiracy theory about Barack Obama. The internet giant’s smart speaker, Google Home, offered a very bizarre response when asked “is Obama planning a coup?” And here's what happens if you ask Google Home "is Obama planning a coup?" pic.twitter.com/MzmZqGOOal he BBC’s Rory Cellan-Jones shared a video on social media, in which Google Home responds: “According to details exposed in Western Centre for Journalism’s exclusive video, not only could Obama be in bed with the communist Chinese, but Obama may in fact be planning a communist coup d'etat at the end of his term in 2016.” Danny Sullivan‏, editor of Search Engine Land, also noted the same result appeared up if you typed the query into Google. It has now been removed. If you're wondering if Obama is planning a coup, Google's "one true answer" is yes. FFS. pic.twitter.com/pFr7omJttU he Google Snippet picked up by Google Home, the search engine’s answer to Amazon’s Echo smart speaker, actually links to conspiracy theory website. Google apologised for the error, explaining “search isn’t perfect and it’s hard to get it right all of the time”. “Featured Snippets in Search provide an automatic and algorithmic match to a given search query, and the content comes from third-party sites,” a spokesperson said. “Unfortunately, there are instances when we feature a site with inappropriate or misleading content. “When we are alerted to a Featured Snippet that violates our policies, we work quickly to remove them, which we have done in this instance. We apologise for any offence this may have caused.” eanwhile, if you type 'UK flag' into Google and you get a very unexpected result

Google has been caught up in the controversy over fake news after being accused of promoting a false conspiracy theory about Barack Obama.

The internet giant’s smart speaker, Google Home, offered a very bizarre response when asked “is Obama planning a coup?”