Don Cheadle claims Donald Trump used the 'n-word' on the golf course
Don Cheadle claims Donald Trump used the 'n-word' on the golf course
ollywood star Don Cheadle has accused President Donald Trump of using the “N-word” on the golf course – stating that the president casually used the word to a man he barely knew. Cheadle, known for his climate change activism and work with George Clooney, Matt Damon and Brad Pitt in Darfur , has long been an outspoken critic of Mr Trump. But when on Saturday the 52-year-old was asked about his distaste for the president , he elaborated. “Hated him since he asked my friend's father at a Doral pro-am if he'd ever ‘------ a n-----...’" said Cheadle. “Did it for me ...” Cheadle, the star of Hotel Rwanda and Ocean’s Eleven, added: “Consider the kind of person who would so glibly and irreverently spout that [to a total] stranger.” The Doral golf course in Miami was bought by Mr Trump in 2012. Cheadle did not specify when the incident took place. “The Donald thought they were all ‘like minded,’” he said. “Mistook their shock for disgust … He went on to clarify, ‘No, no, it’s great!’ and some more stuff before they just teed off in silence.” On Twitter, a fan then asked Cheadle if his friend’s father would go on record with the story, to which the star responded: “I don’t know him. But his daughter is famous and probably doesn’t want that particular beef for her or her dad.” Cheadle was asked if he had any audio recordings of the incident, but replied: “Her father wasn’t wearing a wire. But look up the 2M or so articles about Drumpf and racism if you need a primer.” hen asked why he didn’t discuss the story during the election, Cheadle said he didn’t know about it at the time. He added: “I don’t really think it would have changed much. You’ve heard the things he’s said before, right?” The White House has not yet responded to the accusations. Mr Trump has always angrily denied accusations of racism.

Hollywood star Don Cheadle has accused President Donald Trump of using the “N-word” on the golf course – stating that the president casually used the word to a man he barely knew.

Cheadle, known for his climate change activism and work with George Clooney, Matt Damon and Brad Pitt in Darfur, has long been an outspoken critic of Mr Trump.

But when on Saturday the 52-year-old was asked about his distaste for the president, he elaborated.

“Hated him since he asked my friend's father at a Doral pro-am if he'd ever ‘------ a n-----...’" said Cheadle.

“Did it for me ...”

Cheadle, the star of Hotel Rwanda and Ocean’s Eleven, added: “Consider the kind of person who would so glibly and irreverently spout that [to a total] stranger.”

The Doral golf course in Miami was bought by Mr Trump in 2012. Cheadle did not specify when the incident took place.

“The Donald thought they were all ‘like minded,’” he said.

“Mistook their shock for disgust … He went on to clarify, ‘No, no, it’s great!’ and some more stuff before they just teed off in silence.”

On Twitter, a fan then asked Cheadle if his friend’s father would go on record with the story, to which the star responded: “I don’t know him. But his daughter is famous and probably doesn’t want that particular beef for her or her dad.”

Cheadle was asked if he had any audio recordings of the incident, but replied: “Her father wasn’t wearing a wire. But look up the 2M or so articles about Drumpf and racism if you need a primer.”