7 Home Purchases Worth The Splurge
7 Home Purchases Worth The Splurge
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Houzz       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. When it comes to shopping for the home, there are very few things that I absolutely hate. Buyer's remorse is one of them.   As I've become more experienced in making purchases for clients and my own home, I've learned that the quality of certain items shouldn't be compromised due to lack of research or the inability to delay gratification. Delving into a products' specifications, reading product reviews or coming across the right Houzz ideabook can help us feel more equipped to make a decision on high-ticket items for the house.   I've always appreciated the saying "Buy once, buy right." In other words, purchase the best quality you can afford. Here are seven guilt-free purchases to allow yourself — plus budget-friendly alternatives should you come up a few dollars short. Often it appears that your options are endless when it comes to window coverings. However, window placement, frame construction and other external factors help narrow your choices. It's best to seek professional advice when you are confused about which option is best for your home. There's generally no way around custom window treatments when there are unusually tall windows or odd placements. Remain conservative in your choice and they will be a good investment in your home when it's time to sell. Take ready-made curtains to a professional seamstress to have them hemmed and/or add special trimmings that tie into your existing decor. Consider anything that touches your bare skin an investment in comfort. Bed linens and towels with a high thread count are softer, durable and long lasting. Educate yourself on luxury brands and shop local home discount stores known for carrying famous brands. Purchasing a quality sofa or other piece of upholstered furniture that stands up to the demands of your lifestyle is always a good idea. Cotton blends that have a high percentage of polyester provide optimal stain resistance and long-term wear. Shop local secondhand stores for pieces with solid wood construction and have them reupholstered in an upholstery-grade fabric of your choice. This can give you a high-quality item for the cost of a lower-quality new piece. It can take months to find the perfect rug, and when you do, it usually isn't cheap. Costs vary depending on the age, weaving technique, fiber content and dye method. Hand-loomed rugs wear well and have added character and charm. Minor repairs do not affect the value of the rug as long as they have been done well. Until you purchase your dream rug, arrange two smaller rugs side by side to emulate the look of a larger rug. When it's time to replace them with the new rug, the former rugs become available to use in other spaces. Good health is one of your biggest assets, and a good night's sleep is essential to your well-being. Experts recommend buying what's comfortable for you; there is no one size that fits all. Take your time when shopping for a mattress and select one that provides optimal support when you're sleeping on your side with hips and knees slightly flexed. Purchase a mattress topper as a temporary fix for a mattress that is too firm. It molds to a body's contours, providing pressure relief and eliminating pain in the back, shoulders and hips. A one-of-a-kind piece by its nature has special value. In addition to adding beauty and interest to the home, fine art gains extrinsic value as time passes. Seek out emerging artists and purchase pieces you love from them. Their work is likely to cost less than that of established artists, and you are still likely to see your investment grow in value over time. When a homeowner contacted Houzz for advice on kitchen upgrades , fellow contributor Rebekah Zaveloff responded with helpful advice. In regard to replacing the homeowner's old laminate countertops with classic honed granite counters , Zaveloff advised,"Black and white never goes out of style. If you want a classic black and white kitchen, go ahead and change out those countertops!" "If granite isn't in the cards, budget-wise," Zaveloff continued, "consider an alternative charcoal gray color called Medea from Corian." Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

When it comes to shopping for the home, there are very few things that I absolutely hate. Buyer's remorse is one of them. As I've become more experienced in making purchases for clients and my own home, I've learned that the quality of certain items shouldn't be compromised due to lack of research or the inability to delay gratification. Delving into a products' specifications, reading product reviews or coming across the right Houzz ideabook can help us feel more equipped to make a decision on high-ticket items for the house. I've always appreciated the saying "Buy once, buy right." In other words, purchase the best quality you can afford. Here are seven guilt-free purchases to allow yourself — plus budget-friendly alternatives should you come up a few dollars short.

Modern or Eclectic: Discover your Home Design Style

1. Window Coverings

Often it appears that your options are endless when it comes to window coverings. However, window placement, frame construction and other external factors help narrow your choices.

It's best to seek professional advice when you are confused about which option is best for your home. There's generally no way around custom window treatments when there are unusually tall windows or odd placements. Remain conservative in your choice and they will be a good investment in your home when it's time to sell.

An alternative: Take ready-made curtains to a professional seamstress to have them hemmed and/or add special trimmings that tie into your existing decor.

2. Linens and Towels

Consider anything that touches your bare skin an investment in comfort. Bed linens and towels with a high thread count are softer, durable and long lasting.

An alternative: Educate yourself on luxury brands and shop local home discount stores known for carrying famous brands.

3. Upholstery

Purchasing a quality sofa or other piece of upholstered furniture that stands up to the demands of your lifestyle is always a good idea. Cotton blends that have a high percentage of polyester provide optimal stain resistance and long-term wear.

An alternative: Shop local secondhand stores for pieces with solid wood construction and have them reupholstered in an upholstery-grade fabric of your choice. This can give you a high-quality item for the cost of a lower-quality new piece.

4. Room-Size Rug

It can take months to find the perfect rug, and when you do, it usually isn't cheap. Costs vary depending on the age, weaving technique, fiber content and dye method. Hand-loomed rugs wear well and have added character and charm. Minor repairs do not affect the value of the rug as long as they have been done well.

An alternative: Until you purchase your dream rug, arrange two smaller rugs side by side to emulate the look of a larger rug. When it's time to replace them with the new rug, the former rugs become available to use in other spaces.

5. Mattress

Good health is one of your biggest assets, and a good night's sleep is essential to your well-being. Experts recommend buying what's comfortable for you; there is no one size that fits all. Take your time when shopping for a mattress and select one that provides optimal support when you're sleeping on your side with hips and knees slightly flexed.

An alternative: Purchase a mattress topper as a temporary fix for a mattress that is too firm. It molds to a body's contours, providing pressure relief and eliminating pain in the back, shoulders and hips.

More: Browse the Latest Bed Designs

6. Original Artwork

A one-of-a-kind piece by its nature has special value. In addition to adding beauty and interest to the home, fine art gains extrinsic value as time passes.

The alternative: Seek out emerging artists and purchase pieces you love from them. Their work is likely to cost less than that of established artists, and you are still likely to see your investment grow in value over time.

More: Design Strategies for Art Lovers

7. Countertops

When a homeowner contacted Houzz for advice on kitchen upgrades, fellow contributor Rebekah Zaveloff responded with helpful advice. In regard to replacing the homeowner's old laminate countertops with classic honed granite counters, Zaveloff advised,"Black and white never goes out of style. If you want a classic black and white kitchen, go ahead and change out those countertops!"

An alternative: "If granite isn't in the cards, budget-wise," Zaveloff continued, "consider an alternative charcoal gray color called Medea from Corian."

More from Houzz

Ideas: Complete Decorating Guides to Color