Nearly One In Five LinkedIn Members Say Health Insurance Affected Job Choice
Nearly One In Five LinkedIn Members Say Health Insurance Affected Job Choice
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Y. Lee       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The type of health insurance available can make a major difference in what jobs people take. (Photo: Shutterstock) Think affordable health insurance is just a concern of the lazy and unmotivated and those sympathizing with them? Think again. LinkedIn is not exactly a website for people who aren't motivated to find jobs or advance their careers. There are plenty of websites for those kinds of people. Instead, LinkedIn is a social networking site focused on business and employment with over 467 million accounts. And a recent survey of LinkedIn members found that for nearly one in five respondents (a total of 1,010 members responded), the types and cost of health insurance available were the primary driving factor in taking, leaving or keeping a job. Again, for ...not just a major factor. Everyone, take heed: health insurance means a big deal to jobs, careers and the economy. Yes, as President Donald Trump has recently said, healthcare and health insurance can, indeed, be really complicated . Questions about health insurance options and how they affected job decision making were part of the monthly omnibus survey sent to randomly selected LinkedIn members. Of course, as we know, polls and surveys are not perfect. Survey results depend heavily on who is sampled, who responds and how honest people are in their responses. (For example, a survey in a sushi restaurant will likely show sushi as the best food to eat , and you may not get honest answers from college fraternity members about Taylor Swift music preferences.) However, Beth Kutscher, news editor for healthcare at LinkedIn , indicated that the survey sample did "cut across many industries, job types, ages and geographic regions." Moreover, Kutscher mentioned that many results "mirrored what has been seen in other surveys and studies." For example, the LinkedIn survey showed that two-thirds of respondents "had health insurance coverage from an employer, mirroring the national trend, while 12% had purchased a plan from the individual marketplace and 5% were uninsured" as Kutscher mentioned in her LinkedIn piece that summarizes the results of the survey . Additionally, the results do make a lot of sense. The type of health insurance you choose can literally be a life-or-death choice...or a "life is good" versus "everything's going down the toilet" choice. Consider the higher percentage (30%) of medical professionals who cited health insurance as the primary factor in their survey responses. Medical professionals are like canaries on the toilet seat. They can see bad health-related poop plopping down long before everyone else in society sees it. You may not really think about health insurance before you actually need it. By contrast, medical professionals see nearly every day the bad consequences of not-so-great insurance coverage, realizing that your health insurance can determine the type of medical care you receive and thus your health. Like it or not, the healthcare system can be a caste system, with health insurance determining where you fall and if you fall. Also, many medical professionals regularly witness how health insurance can be that loose piece near the base of the Jenga structure of life. No matter how massive your business or career may be, a major health problem for you and your family can cause everything to come crashing down. "Follow the health insurance" doesn't sound as sexy during a graduation commencement speech as "follow your passion" or "follow your heart." But health insurance seems to be a primary limiting factor for those who are trying to follow their passions. The availability of affordable individual health insurance plans affects freelancers, entrepreneurs and those joining startups the most. Making good health insurance available to everyone may encourage many more people to pursue passion projects and thus the American dream. Donald Trump speaks during a listening session with health insurance company executives in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Feb. 27, 2017. Photographer: Aude Guerrucci/Pool via Bloomberg The survey results should also remind employers that health insurance plays a major role in recruiting and retaining employees. Yes, offering a nice cafeteria, game rooms, "free" facials, a Netflix subscription, beer or orgies ( as reported by the BBC ) may be ways that companies have tried to maintain their talent pools. However, such perks do not replace good health insurance. (Beer won't help you when you have to go to the emergency room.) Results from the LinkedIn survey also showed that many employer-offered healthcare benefits are continuing to get worse. As Kutscher relayed, "A total of 63% of respondents indicated that their healthcare benefits were either more expensive or stingier than in the previous year, and 40% saw both an increase in premium costs as well as higher out-of-pocket copays and deductibles when they used their health plans." As Jeffrey Young reported for the , worsening health benefits are not a recent trend but something that has been occurring since 2000, crossing multiple Presidential administrations. Indeed, more and more employers are pushing the cost of healthcare to you. So, regardless of who you are, pay attention to discussions about the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and whatever replacement options may emerge. The upcoming decisions will affect every industry, every aspect of the economy, every business...everyone. Unfortunately, too many people are paying too little attention to what's occurring with health insurance. (Remember, a study found that one-third of Americans didn't even know that Obamacare and the ACA are the same .) Not paying attention could affect your health, your career and your business in more ways than you realize. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Think affordable health insurance is just a concern of the lazy and unmotivated and those sympathizing with them? Think again. LinkedIn is not exactly a website for people who aren't motivated to find jobs or advance their careers. There are plenty of websites for those kinds of people. Instead, LinkedIn is a social networking site focused on business and employment with over 467 million accounts. And a recent survey of LinkedIn members found that for nearly one in five respondents (a total of 1,010 members responded), the types and cost of health insurance available were the primary driving factor in taking, leaving or keeping a job. Again, for 19% of survey respondents, health insurance was the primary factor...not just a major factor. Everyone, take heed: health insurance means a big deal to jobs, careers and the economy. Yes, as President Donald Trump has recently said, healthcare and health insurance can, indeed, be really complicated.

Questions about health insurance options and how they affected job decision making were part of the monthly omnibus survey sent to randomly selected LinkedIn members. Of course, as we know, polls and surveys are not perfect. Survey results depend heavily on who is sampled, who responds and how honest people are in their responses. (For example, a survey in a sushi restaurant will likely show sushi as the best food to eat, and you may not get honest answers from college fraternity members about Taylor Swift music preferences.) However, Beth Kutscher, news editor for healthcare at LinkedIn, indicated that the survey sample did "cut across many industries, job types, ages and geographic regions." Moreover, Kutscher mentioned that many results "mirrored what has been seen in other surveys and studies." For example, the LinkedIn survey showed that two-thirds of respondents "had health insurance coverage from an employer, mirroring the national trend, while 12% had purchased a plan from the individual marketplace and 5% were uninsured" as Kutscher mentioned in her LinkedIn piece that summarizes the results of the survey.

Additionally, the results do make a lot of sense. The type of health insurance you choose can literally be a life-or-death choice...or a "life is good" versus "everything's going down the toilet" choice. Consider the higher percentage (30%) of medical professionals who cited health insurance as the primary factor in their survey responses. Medical professionals are like canaries on the toilet seat. They can see bad health-related poop plopping down long before everyone else in society sees it. You may not really think about health insurance before you actually need it. By contrast, medical professionals see nearly every day the bad consequences of not-so-great insurance coverage, realizing that your health insurance can determine the type of medical care you receive and thus your health. Like it or not, the healthcare system can be a caste system, with health insurance determining where you fall and if you fall. Also, many medical professionals regularly witness how health insurance can be that loose piece near the base of the Jenga structure of life. No matter how massive your business or career may be, a major health problem for you and your family can cause everything to come crashing down.

"Follow the health insurance" doesn't sound as sexy during a graduation commencement speech as "follow your passion" or "follow your heart." But health insurance seems to be a primary limiting factor for those who are trying to follow their passions. The availability of affordable individual health insurance plans affects freelancers, entrepreneurs and those joining startups the most. Making good health insurance available to everyone may encourage many more people to pursue passion projects and thus the American dream.

The survey results should also remind employers that health insurance plays a major role in recruiting and retaining employees. Yes, offering a nice cafeteria, game rooms, "free" facials, a Netflix subscription, beer or orgies (as reported by the BBC) may be ways that companies have tried to maintain their talent pools. However, such perks do not replace good health insurance. (Beer won't help you when you have to go to the emergency room.) Results from the LinkedIn survey also showed that many employer-offered healthcare benefits are continuing to get worse. As Kutscher relayed, "A total of 63% of respondents indicated that their healthcare benefits were either more expensive or stingier than in the previous year, and 40% saw both an increase in premium costs as well as higher out-of-pocket copays and deductibles when they used their health plans." As Jeffrey Young reported for the Huffington Post, worsening health benefits are not a recent trend but something that has been occurring since 2000, crossing multiple Presidential administrations. Indeed, more and more employers are pushing the cost of healthcare to you.

So, regardless of who you are, pay attention to discussions about the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and whatever replacement options may emerge. The upcoming decisions will affect every industry, every aspect of the economy, every business...everyone. Unfortunately, too many people are paying too little attention to what's occurring with health insurance. (Remember, a study found that one-third of Americans didn't even know that Obamacare and the ACA are the same.) Not paying attention could affect your health, your career and your business in more ways than you realize.

Follow me on Twitter @bruce_y_lee and visit our Global Obesity Prevention Center (GOPC) at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Read my other Forbes pieces here.