The most popular Android apps of all time will shock you (lol, not really)
The most popular Android apps of all time will shock you (lol, not really)
Google has revealed the most popular apps and games in its Play Store and the top picks aren't surprising at all. To commemorate the fifth anniversary of its Play Store, the company released a series of lists highlighting its most popular apps, games, books, movies and music. SEE ALSO: Texting on Android will soon get a lot better In what likely won't come as a surprise, Facebook took three of the top five spots for the most-downloaded apps of all time, with Facebook, Facebook Messenger and Instagram all making the list. But though Facebook's dominance is to be expected, parts of the list may be more surprising, like Pandora beating out Snapchat and Instagram for the #3 spot. Here's the full list, according to Google: Facebook Facebook Messenger Pandora Radio Instagram Snapchat Notably, Facebook's WhatsApp didn't make the top five, though I suspect it's not too far behind. Separately, the company released a list of the most popular games with, surprise surprise, topping the list. Candy Crush Saga Subway Surfers Temple Run 2 Despicable Me Clash of Clans Google also shared the most popular movies, books and music in the Play Store. The top movie? The best-selling book is followed and . For music, the top-sellers were Adele's and Ed Sheeran's . You can find Google's full list of the top downloads over on its blog . BONUS: Turn selfies into latte art with this magical machine

Google has revealed the most popular apps and games in its Play Store and the top picks aren't surprising at all.

To commemorate the fifth anniversary of its Play Store, the company released a series of lists highlighting its most popular apps, games, books, movies and music.

SEE ALSO: Texting on Android will soon get a lot better

In what likely won't come as a surprise, Facebook took three of the top five spots for the most-downloaded apps of all time, with Facebook, Facebook Messenger and Instagram all making the list. But though Facebook's dominance is to be expected, parts of the list may be more surprising, like Pandora beating out Snapchat and Instagram for the #3 spot.

Here's the full list, according to Google:

Facebook Facebook Messenger Pandora Radio Instagram Snapchat

Notably, Facebook's WhatsApp didn't make the top five, though I suspect it's not too far behind.

Separately, the company released a list of the most popular games with, surprise surprise, Candy Crush Saga topping the list.

Candy Crush Saga Subway Surfers Temple Run 2 Despicable Me Clash of Clans

Google also shared the most popular movies, books and music in the Play Store. The top movie? The Interview. The best-selling book is Fifty Shades of Gray, followed by The Hunger Games and A Song of Ice and Fire. For music, the top-sellers were Adele's 25 and Ed Sheeran's Thinking Out Loud.

You can find Google's full list of the top downloads over on its blog.