Donald Trump Issues New Immigration Order, Legal Challenges Remain Likely
Donald Trump Issues New Immigration Order, Legal Challenges Remain Likely
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Matt Drange       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President Donald Trump signs an executive order last month. (Photo by Olivier Douliery /Getty Images) President Donald Trump signed a scaled back version of his immigration order Monday in an effort to avoid the legal challenges that have delayed for weeks the implementation of his original travel ban. The new order goes into effect March 16. At that time it will take the place of Trump's January executive order, which prompted intense backlash in Silicon Valley, where executives issued statements against it , employees of major tech firms walked out in protest and more than 100 companies joined a friend of the court brief opposing the order . The new order makes a series of concessions, including dropping Iraq from the list of countries whose citizens are temporarily banned from entering the United States. Starting later this month, citizens of a half-dozen mostly Muslim countries--Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen--are not allowed to travel to the U.S. for 90 days. The order also suspends all refugees from entering the country for 120 days, while instituting a cap on the total number of refugees set at 50,000 for the 2017 fiscal year. (Unlike the previous version of the order, Syrian refugees are treated the same as refugees from other countries under the current order.) Most notably, the new order does not cover current visa holders or legal permanent residents, a group that includes many of the tech workers impacted by the previous order. Administration officials told reporters Monday that the new order would not cause delays or deportations at airports. Just hours after the order was signed, a group of plaintiffs led by the Arab American Civil Rights League announced its intention to file an amended complaint in a case challenging the original order. Holly Warfield, Forbes Staff By Holly Warfield, Forbes Dozens of lawsuits have been filed challenging Trump's previous order, which temporarily banned travelers from seven mostly Muslim countries. Trump's administration claimed the ban was needed in order to establish tighter controls on immigrants from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan, Somalia, Syria and Yemen, countries the president has deemed terrorism risks. While the goal of the new order is to implement the policy changes sought by Trump without the legal hassle that has dogged his original plan, legal experts said Monday to expect continued challenges over the constitutionality of the travel ban. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

President Donald Trump signed a scaled back version of his immigration order Monday in an effort to avoid the legal challenges that have delayed for weeks the implementation of his original travel ban.

The new order goes into effect March 16. At that time it will take the place of Trump's January executive order, which prompted intense backlash in Silicon Valley, where executives issued statements against it, employees of major tech firms walked out in protest and more than 100 companies joined a friend of the court brief opposing the order.

The new order makes a series of concessions, including dropping Iraq from the list of countries whose citizens are temporarily banned from entering the United States. Starting later this month, citizens of a half-dozen mostly Muslim countries--Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen--are not allowed to travel to the U.S. for 90 days. The order also suspends all refugees from entering the country for 120 days, while instituting a cap on the total number of refugees set at 50,000 for the 2017 fiscal year. (Unlike the previous version of the order, Syrian refugees are treated the same as refugees from other countries under the current order.)

Most notably, the new order does not cover current visa holders or legal permanent residents, a group that includes many of the tech workers impacted by the previous order. Administration officials told reporters Monday that the new order would not cause delays or deportations at airports.

Just hours after the order was signed, a group of plaintiffs led by the Arab American Civil Rights League announced its intention to file an amended complaint in a case challenging the original order.

Holly Warfield, Forbes Staff

Dozens of lawsuits have been filed challenging Trump's previous order, which temporarily banned travelers from seven mostly Muslim countries. Trump's administration claimed the ban was needed in order to establish tighter controls on immigrants from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan, Somalia, Syria and Yemen, countries the president has deemed terrorism risks. While the goal of the new order is to implement the policy changes sought by Trump without the legal hassle that has dogged his original plan, legal experts said Monday to expect continued challenges over the constitutionality of the travel ban.