Barbra Streisand Says Trump's Presidency Is Making Her Gain Weight
Barbra Streisand Says Trump's Presidency Is Making Her Gain Weight
Thanks to President Donald Trump , legendary songstress Barbra Streisand is focusing on a different kind of scale these days. On Saturday, the 74-year-old tweeted that our current commander in chief is causing her to eat away her feelings. Donald Trump is making me gain weight. I start the day with liquids, but after the morning news, I eat pancakes smothered in maple syrup! Trump just accused Obama of tapping his phones. Seriously crazy times. Time for more pancakes. We feel you, Babs. Streisand was a loyal Hillary Clinton supporter during the 2016 presidential campaign and even performed a lampooned version of “Send in the Clowns,” which poked fun at Trump, during a Clinton fundraiser in September. The parody included the lyrics: “Hillary’s kind / Smart that is clear / While she is giving us hope / Trump is selling us fear / Look how he changes his views every time that he speaks / It’s lie after lie / Can’t take eight more weeks!” Try three years and 10 more months . Pass the syrup. ALSO ON HUFFPOST What You Can Do Right Now To Stop Donald Trump's Dangerous Climate Agenda       Share this slide:       MORE:

Strengthen city, county and state climate efforts

If the federal government refuses to stand up against climate change, it’ll be more important than ever for cities, counties and states to pick up the slack and become climate leaders. That means committing to divest from fossil fuels, embrace clean energy, set emissions targets and develop climate action plans , among other measures.“The ominous signals coming out of D.C. point to even more work needed at the city and state level,” said Kate Kiely, national media deputy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. In November, the NRDC announced partnerships with 20 cities across the country from St. Paul, Minnesota, to Houston, Texas, to make strides in renewable energy.According to Brune, cities could have an especially big influence in the climate change fight. “We should be pushing cities to go 100 percent clean energy and to reject natural gas and coal and other fossil fuels,” he said. “A majority of people now live in cities, so this could have a dramatic impact.”In the U.S., at least 20 cities have made commitments to rely completely on clean energy.“People should organize and get their own cities to move forward,” Brune said.Contact your mayor, city council, or county or state representative and get them to set a timeline to stop using fossil fuels.