Here’s How To Make 21 Healthy Meals For Under $50
Here's How To Make 21 Healthy Meals For Under $50
There’s a common misconception that eating healthy is expensive. After coming up with a grocery list and doing some savvy shopping, we came up with 21 healthy meals for under $50. That’s three single-serving meals a day for seven days to keep your wallet AND your belly happy! Here’s everything you’ll need for the next seven days: - 1 sweet potato, - 1 Russet potato, - 2 lbs frozen broccoli florets, - 2 green bell peppers, - 10.5oz cherry tomatoes, - 1 bunch of carrots, - 3 bananas, - 2 Fuji apples, - 16 oz fresh strawberries, - 6 oz fresh blueberries, - 1 head romaine lettuce, - 1.25 lbs boneless and skinless chicken breasts, - 32 fl oz unsweetened almond milk, - 8 oz shredded sharp cheddar, - 8 oz oven-roasted turkey breast, - 32 oz non-fat Greek yogurt, - 15 oz all-natural peanut butter, - 18 oz old-fashioned rolled oats, - 30 oz can of black beans, - 1lb uncooked brown rice, - 10.4 oz whole wheat tortillas, - 20 oz whole wheat bread, Check your local supermarket for deals, as prices vary based on location. Our total was $49.79! This is not a weight-loss program or a recipe guide — it’s a way to show the healthy combinations you can make with all the food you’re getting for under $50! Breakfast: Berry Smoothie Blend some berries, Greek yogurt, and a splash of almond milk together for a yummy smoothie! Try one of the recipes from our Breakfast Smoothies 4 Ways if you’re feeling fancy. Lunch: Turkey Cobb Salad Throw some chopped turkey breast, a hardboiled egg, tomatoes, and a sprinkle of cheese on a bed of lettuce for a yummy, protein-packed salad! Dinner: Chicken And Broccoli Rice Bowl For dinner, try a classic rice bowl made with grilled chicken, brown rice, and steamed broccoli! Breakfast: Berry Oatmeal Mmmm, fresh berries! Cook up some instant oats in almond milk and top with strawberries and blueberries. You could even mix in some peanut butter. Lunch: Fried Egg And Broccoli Rice Bowl Take a brown rice and steamed broccoli bowl to the next level by throwing a fried egg on top! Dinner: Chicken And Veggie Quesadilla Make a filling quesadilla with whole wheat tortillas, grilled chicken, bell pepper, and cheese! You can pair it with black beans and a dollop of Greek yogurt in place of sour cream. Breakfast: Berry Parfait Breakfast can be so easy! Just layer Greek yogurt and fresh berries for a pretty parfait! Lunch: Turkey And Cheddar Wrap Make a quick, portable lunch by wrapping turkey and cheddar slices in a whole wheat tortilla. Pair it with carrot sticks and a side salad! Dinner: Chicken Burrito Bowl Throw some chopped grilled chicken breast, black beans, tomatoes, lettuce, cheese, and a dollop of Greek yogurt on some brown rice for a delicious burrito bowl. Breakfast: Banana Peanut Butter Oatmeal Cook up some instant oatmeal in almond milk, then top it with banana slices and peanut butter. So filling! Lunch: Broccoli Cheddar Baked Potato Lunch couldn’t be better than a baked potato stuffed with broccoli and cheddar cheese. Try baking your potato at 425ºF for 50 to 60 minutes in the oven. Dinner: Black Bean And Rice-Stuffed Bell Pepper Enjoy a yummy meatless dinner with a roasted bell pepper stuffed with brown rice, black beans, tomatoes, and cheese! Try roasting the bell pepper at 400ºF for 30 minutes like we did in our Turkey Taco–Stuffed Bell Pepper recipe. Breakfast: Scrambled Eggs And Whole Wheat Toast Have a balance breakfast with two scrambled eggs, whole wheat toast, and berries! Lunch: Chicken And Veggie Salad Throw grilled chicken on some greens with a little bell pepper and you have yourself a yummy salad! Dinner: Black Bean And Cheese-Stuffed Sweet Potato Poke a few holes in your sweet potato with a fork and then roast at 400ºF for 45 minutes. When done, fill it with black beans and cheese! Yum! Breakfast: Cheese And Veggie Omelet Make a hearty omelet with two eggs, bell peppers, tomatoes, and cheese! Pair it with whole wheat toast and a side of berries. Lunch: Peanut Butter And Banana Sandwich Have a classic peanut butter and banana sandwich for lunch and pair it with a few sliced berries! Dinner: Bean And Cheese Quesadilla Enjoy a black bean and cheese quesadilla for dinner and pair it with a dollop of Greek yogurt in place of sour cream! Breakfast: Apple Cinnamon Oatmeal Cook up some instant oats in almond milk and enjoy it with sliced apples and cinnamon. Lunch: Chicken Burrito Time for lunch! Wrap some chicken, brown rice, and black beans in a whole wheat tortilla and pair it with lettuce, tomatoes, cheese, and Greek yogurt on the side. Dinner: Chicken And Rice-Stuffed Bell Pepper Roast your bell pepper at 400F for 30 minutes and fill it with brown rice, chopped chicken breast, and cheese!   TSA Officer Rod Williams From "Get Out" Is The Real...    This Turtle Swallowed 915 Coins, Forming An 11-Pound...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.