Carbon emissions are not soaked up by trees as well as initially thought, say scientists



Carbon emissions are not soaked up by trees as well as initially thought, say scientists

Posted

When it comes to carbon capture, not all trees are equal, say scientists, throwing current climate models into disarray.

Key points: Current climate models work on belief trees can offset carbon emissions by capturing and storing CO2

Eucalypt plantation was exposed to the same carbon levels expected to be in the atmosphere in 35 years' time

Scientists found the trees soaked up the C02, but seemed to just spit it back out

And they say the findings of a new study highlight the importance of efforts to cut global carbon emissions.

For a number of years scientists have been working on the belief that trees are able to offset carbon emissions by capturing and storing CO2.

But scientists at Western Sydney University, who have been studying trees and their carbon storage emissions, found that it looks like at least some trees have their limits.

In a world-first experiment, experts exposed a plantation of eucalypts to the same level of carbon expected to be in the atmosphere in 35 years' time.

Professor David Ellsworth, who led the study, said while the trees captured the carbon well up to the present day, they could not capture more.

"We saw no growth response to the trees, to the elevated CO2, and we saw no productivity response either," he said.

"That means that the trees are actually soaking up more CO2, but potentially also just spitting it back out, so to speak, and not storing it.

"That has big implications for the trajectory of carbon dioxide in the future."

'Time to rethink present climate models'

The research was also the first time scientists had studied a plantation with low phosphorus soil, common in the southern hemisphere — especially in Australia.

"The implications are potentially quite huge because our eucalypts represent a broadleaved vegetation type that is quite common on the earth," Professor Ellsworth said.

"So if other broadleaf vegetation types, which are also on low phosphorus soils — like tropical rainforests — respond similarly, then it really means a very large land mass is not actually going to soak up much more CO2 than it does today, when we go into the future."

He said the findings raised the possibility that a rethink of present climate models may be necessary, as the current models did not consider the nutrients available to plants.

"And that clearly is a limiter to their ability to respond to CO2," he said.

"Some people have been working on some of those revisions, but broadly the suite of models applied to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change did not really invoke those kinds of limitations and they do need to be strongly considered by all the models that we're using."

The results have been published in today's edition of the journal Nature Climate Change.

Topics: climate-change, environment, forests, rain-forests-and-forest, science-and-technology, research, australia