Report: Hunter Biden Blew Tens of Thousands on Hookers, Strippers, and Drugs After Abandoning Wife for Brother’s Widow
Report: Hunter Biden Blew Tens of Thousands on Hookers, Strippers, and Drugs After Abandoning Wife for Brother's Widow - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER The wife of former vice president Joseph Biden’s surviving son has filed for divorce, according to a report in the Hunter Biden’s estranged wife Kathleen seeks to limit the attorney and former Navy JAG officer, who is now in a relationship with his brother Beau’s widow, Hallie, to a $5,000 per month allowance and $20,000 per month for her and her three daughters. The accusations, filed last week by Hunter’s soon-to-be ex-wife, Kathleen Biden , offer a peek at the sordid, big-money accusations being flung behind the scenes in the popular veep’s squeaky-clean-seeming family. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “His spending rarely relates to legitimate family expenses, but focuses on his own travel (at times multiple hotel rooms on the same night), gifts for other women, alcohol, strip clubs, or other personal indulgences,” Kathleen says in papers filed in DC Superior Court on Feb. 23. Hunter ‘s wife told the court in her motion: “Throughout the parties’ separation Mr. Biden has created financial concerns for the family by spending extravagantly on his own interests (including drugs, alcohol, prostitutes, strip clubs, and gifts for women with whom he has sexual relations), while leaving the family with no funds to pay legitimate bills.” Beau’s little brother was sending his wife $75,000 per month, but now sends $17,000 per month, she told the court. In addition, the estranged wife told the court Hunter spent through $122,000 in two months, maxed out cash advances on his American Express card, owes more than $300,000 in taxes, double-mortgaged the family home, and bounced three checks to the housekeeper. Then, there is the $80,000 diamond ring she is looking for and Hunter claims he does not have. Hunter’s lawyer gave a statement to the : “Hunter and Kathleen have been separated for some time and are in the process of finalizing a divorce. Hunter loves and admires Kathleen as a person, a mother, and a friend. He hopes their privacy can be respected at this time.” Wednesday, the former vice president issued this statement about Hunter and Hallie as a couple: “We are all lucky that Hunter and Hallie found each other as they were putting their lives together again after such sadness. They have mine and Jill’s full and complete support and we are happy for them.” According to media reports, Hunter and Hallie became a couple in October 2015 around the time Biden père declined to run for the White House. Beau Biden was an accomplished man when he died of brain cancer on May 30, 2015. After his term as Delaware attorney general, he was ramping up for a 2016 governor’s race. In 2009, Beau served at Camp Victory, Iraq as an Army lawyer with the Delaware National Guard. Hunter’s military career was a short one. In February 2014, he was discharged from the Navy Reserve after popping for cocaine on a drug test in the summer of 2013, one month after his special commissioning through a program that allows civilian lawyers to become limited duty officers after a short orientation. Hunter was too old for the program and had a drug incident in his past, yet was given a waiver for both red flags. Kathleen Biden is the chairwoman of the Eleanor Roosevelt Dialogue and the DC Volunteer Lawyer’s Project Community Advocate and board member.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

The wife of former vice president Joseph Biden’s surviving son has filed for divorce, according to a report in the New York Post. Hunter Biden’s estranged wife Kathleen seeks to limit the attorney and former Navy JAG officer, who is now in a relationship with his brother Beau’s widow, Hallie, to a $5,000 per month allowance and $20,000 per month for her and her three daughters.

The accusations, filed last week by Hunter’s soon-to-be ex-wife, Kathleen Biden, offer a peek at the sordid, big-money accusations being flung behind the scenes in the popular veep’s squeaky-clean-seeming family. SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “His spending rarely relates to legitimate family expenses, but focuses on his own travel (at times multiple hotel rooms on the same night), gifts for other women, alcohol, strip clubs, or other personal indulgences,” Kathleen says in papers filed in DC Superior Court on Feb. 23.

Hunter‘s wife told the court in her motion: “Throughout the parties’ separation Mr. Biden has created financial concerns for the family by spending extravagantly on his own interests (including drugs, alcohol, prostitutes, strip clubs, and gifts for women with whom he has sexual relations), while leaving the family with no funds to pay legitimate bills.”

Beau’s little brother was sending his wife $75,000 per month, but now sends $17,000 per month, she told the court.

In addition, the estranged wife told the court Hunter spent through $122,000 in two months, maxed out cash advances on his American Express card, owes more than $300,000 in taxes, double-mortgaged the family home, and bounced three checks to the housekeeper.

Then, there is the $80,000 diamond ring she is looking for and Hunter claims he does not have.

Hunter’s lawyer gave a statement to the Post: “Hunter and Kathleen have been separated for some time and are in the process of finalizing a divorce. Hunter loves and admires Kathleen as a person, a mother, and a friend. He hopes their privacy can be respected at this time.”

Wednesday, the former vice president issued this statement about Hunter and Hallie as a couple: “We are all lucky that Hunter and Hallie found each other as they were putting their lives together again after such sadness. They have mine and Jill’s full and complete support and we are happy for them.”

According to media reports, Hunter and Hallie became a couple in October 2015 around the time Biden père declined to run for the White House.

Beau Biden was an accomplished man when he died of brain cancer on May 30, 2015. After his term as Delaware attorney general, he was ramping up for a 2016 governor’s race. In 2009, Beau served at Camp Victory, Iraq as an Army lawyer with the Delaware National Guard.

Hunter’s military career was a short one. In February 2014, he was discharged from the Navy Reserve after popping for cocaine on a drug test in the summer of 2013, one month after his special commissioning through a program that allows civilian lawyers to become limited duty officers after a short orientation. Hunter was too old for the program and had a drug incident in his past, yet was given a waiver for both red flags.

Kathleen Biden is the chairwoman of the Eleanor Roosevelt Dialogue and the DC Volunteer Lawyer’s Project Community Advocate and board member.