Shah Rukh Khan’s Opinion On Women Empowerment Is What Everyone Needs To Read Right Now!
Shah Rukh Khan’s Opinion On Women Empowerment Is What Everyone Needs To Read Right Now
Shah Rukh Khan’s Opinion On Women Empowerment Is What Everyone Needs To Read Right Now! With women-centric films such as Lipstick Under My Burkha being denied certification by the censor board, and Swara Bhaskar’s topless scenes from her forthcoming film getting leaked, Bollywood is raging on feminism and women empowerment. Meanwhile, the King of Bollywood Shah Rukh Khan has put forth his opinion on the issue that has been long talked about by one and all. Furthermore, SRK said that “it’s an unfair world” because “it’s a man world.” He once even offered the makers of his film to write Deepika Padukone’s name above his name in the credits. No doubts on why he is called the King of Bollywood!

With women-centric films such as Lipstick Under My Burkha being denied certification by the censor board, and Swara Bhaskar’s topless scenes from her forthcoming film getting leaked, Bollywood is raging on feminism and women empowerment. Meanwhile, the King of Bollywood Shah Rukh Khan has put forth his opinion on the issue that has been long talked about by one and all.

SRK says that women don’t need empowerment as they are already very powerful and rightly so!

AFP

“We keep talking about empowering the ladies, which is a misnomer according to me. It's like saying 'save the planet.' You don't save the planet, the planet saves you, it is looking after you,” PTI quoted the actor as saying.

AFP

“Similarly when we say, 'empower women', there is nothing like empowering them. They are more powerful than us. All we need to do is, genuinely give all the ladies an even playing field. That's all they are asking for,” he added.

AFP

Furthermore, SRK said that “it’s an unfair world” because “it’s a man world.” He once even offered the makers of his film to write Deepika Padukone’s name above his name in the credits.

No doubts on why he is called the King of Bollywood!

Don't Miss 15.5 K SHARES 34.9 K SHARES 78.2 K SHARES 50.6 K SHARES 57 K SHARES