Gatwick Hotel owners say they have been pressured to close down



Gatwick Hotel owners say they have been pressured to close down

Updated

St Kilda's notorious Gatwick Hotel is closing down due to pressure from politicians and police, the owners say.

The rooming house has provided shelter to some of the city's poorest people since the 1950s but concerns have been raised about violence and drug use at the Fitzroy Street site.

Local police recently said they attended five jobs a day at the house.

The owners, Rose Banks and Yvette Kelly, have worked at the Gatwick for 46 years but said it had been too hard to continue.

"Basically we made the decision because we're getting so much pressure from outside to close the building ... pressure from the police and the politicians," Ms Kelly said.

"Every day trying to explain yourself and explain that all these issues that they're having with people coming in and doing whatever, we have these issues too, but nobody seems to want to see it our way," Ms Banks said.

"It's a very hard decision to make. It didn't come easy but I think enough is enough."

Time for owners to 'move on'

The Gatwick Hotel has been on the market for four years in the hope another rooming house operation would take over, but there were no buyers.

Housing Minister Martin Foley said after four years on the market it was time for the owners to move on.

"The Gatwick has long passed its time as a place that housed vulnerable people in safe and appropriate circumstances," he said.

"It is not a place that is fit for those residents.

"With much of Fitzroy St and surrounds being held back by the Gatwick we can now look forward to working with traders, council and the community to turn a corner in the area's future."

The 41 residents have four months to find new accommodation and will receive assistance from St Kilda Community Housing.

St Kilda Community Housing chief executive officer John Enticott said his organisation will help with the process.

"The people who are in the Gatwick are people who are used to living in rooming houses and we feel there'll be a smooth transition to our rooming houses," he said.

Resident Geza moved into the Gatwick last year and does not know where he will live next.

"I really don't know where I'm going to go from here, I'm quite worried," he said.

"[It is] pretty sad it's going to shut, it's the end of a good place.

"I feel really sorry for Rose and Yvette because all they do is try and help us."

Topics: housing, government-and-politics, urban-development-and-planning, community-and-society, st-kilda-3182, vic, melbourne-3000

First posted