Setting A Remarkable Example, TV Couple Gurmeet Chaudhary And Debina Bonerjee Adopt Two Girls
Setting A Remarkable Example, TV Couple Gurmeet Chaudhary And Debina Bonerjee Adopt Two Girls
Setting A Remarkable Example, TV Couple Gurmeet Chaudhary And Debina Bonerjee Adopt Two Girls Filmmaker Karan Johar became a proud father of two through surrogacy and that's definitely one baby step towards progressive India. The way the industry and people on Social media sites have reacted prove that we LGBT adoption and surrogacy is definitely something that must be embraced with acceptance and respect. (Also read: Congratulations Are In Order! Karan Johar Becomes A Father To Twins Via Surrogacy ) Just a few days after Karan Johar shared the good news with the world,  television couple Gurmeet and Debina Choudhary also shared a good news with the world. According to reports, Gurmeet-Debina have become parents to two Bihar girls, but through adoption. On a shopping Spree #OOTD #Bae #DubaiLife A post shared by Gurmeet Choudhary (@guruchoudhary) on Jan 2, 2016 at 10:23pm PST   According to a report in The Statesman, the couple had met the two girls back in 2013 when they were in Jampur, a small town in Bihar, to attend a family wedding. It was after Gurmeet's mother introduced him to the two girls who earn their livelihood in the capacity of domestic help. Happy new year . To a great start #2017 ❤️ A post shared by Gurmeet Choudhary (@guruchoudhary) on Jan 1, 2017 at 8:46am PST   It was a thoughtful decision that the couple mutually decided to adopt the two girls. Gurmeet and Debina will visit Jarampur after Holi and will finish final formalities of the adoption process. A Mumbai Mirror report quoted Gurmeet saying, "It is a two-day process. Everybody, including my parents, keep asking me when I’m planning a baby. Well, it’s official now, I’m bringing home two daughters and we couldn’t be more excited." Debina and Gurmeet will not bring down both the girls immediately because they fear it could evoke cultural shock in them. So, both the girls will study in Patna school and would be brought down to Mumbai for better exposure and infrastructure. Gurmeet added, #ganpatibappamorya @debinabon A post shared by Gurmeet Choudhary (@guruchoudhary) on Sep 5, 2016 at 3:25am PDT   “After one academic year, they will shift in with us in our Andheri home by 2018. My brother and his family live in Patna and they will be around to see that they are well cared for. Debina and I will travel to Patna three-four times in the year and stay there through their summer vacation too."

Filmmaker Karan Johar became a proud father of two through surrogacy and that's definitely one baby step towards progressive India.

Pinterest

The way the industry and people on Social media sites have reacted prove that we LGBT adoption and surrogacy is definitely something that must be embraced with acceptance and respect.

(Also read: Congratulations Are In Order! Karan Johar Becomes A Father To Twins Via Surrogacy)

Just a few days after Karan Johar shared the good news with the world, television couple Gurmeet and Debina Choudhary also shared a good news with the world. According to reports, Gurmeet-Debina have become parents to two Bihar girls, but through adoption.

On a shopping Spree #OOTD #Bae #DubaiLife A post shared by Gurmeet Choudhary (@guruchoudhary) on Jan 2, 2016 at 10:23pm PST

According to a report in The Statesman, the couple had met the two girls back in 2013 when they were in Jampur, a small town in Bihar, to attend a family wedding. It was after Gurmeet's mother introduced him to the two girls who earn their livelihood in the capacity of domestic help.

Happy new year . To a great start #2017 ❤️ A post shared by Gurmeet Choudhary (@guruchoudhary) on Jan 1, 2017 at 8:46am PST

It was a thoughtful decision that the couple mutually decided to adopt the two girls. Gurmeet and Debina will visit Jarampur after Holi and will finish final formalities of the adoption process. A Mumbai Mirror report quoted Gurmeet saying,

"It is a two-day process. Everybody, including my parents, keep asking me when I’m planning a baby. Well, it’s official now, I’m bringing home two daughters and we couldn’t be more excited."

Debina and Gurmeet will not bring down both the girls immediately because they fear it could evoke cultural shock in them. So, both the girls will study in Patna school and would be brought down to Mumbai for better exposure and infrastructure.

Gurmeet added,

#ganpatibappamorya @debinabon A post shared by Gurmeet Choudhary (@guruchoudhary) on Sep 5, 2016 at 3:25am PDT

“After one academic year, they will shift in with us in our Andheri home by 2018. My brother and his family live in Patna and they will be around to see that they are well cared for. Debina and I will travel to Patna three-four times in the year and stay there through their summer vacation too."

Don't Miss 15.4 K SHARES 35 K SHARES 50.7 K SHARES 60.3 K SHARES 44.5 K SHARES