Damian Lazarus' Get Lost Reveals 24-Hour Miami Marathon Lineup
Damian Lazarus' Get Lost Reveals 24-Hour Miami Marathon Lineup
Damian Lazarus' Get Lost Reveals 24-Hour Miami Marathon Lineup  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Crosstown Rebels bossÂ Damian Lazarus wants you toÂ Get Lost atÂ Miami Music Week, and judging by the lineup announced Monday (March 6), it's going to be an exciting 24-hour eventÂ with some A+ techno talent. The event, which is set to begin at 5 a.m. ET on March 25 straight into the next day, will feature sets from over 40 acts, includingÂ DJ Sneak, Satori, Art Department and, of course, Mr. Lazarus himself. It's sure to beÂ an experience from start to finish, with surprise performances and musical oddities that will make sure you're dancing for all 24 hours of this marathon. Lazarus is known for taking his events beyond the music and making sure the audience has a unique and unforgettable experience. His other events include the impeccably thought-out Day Zero festival, which takes place in the Tulum jungle.Â  You can get tickets to Get LostÂ here , and be sure to check out the full lineup below.   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Crosstown Rebels bossÂ Damian Lazarus wants you toÂ Get Lost atÂ Miami Music Week, and judging by the lineup announced Monday (March 6), it's going to be an exciting 24-hour eventÂ with some A+ techno talent.

The event, which is set to begin at 5 a.m. ET on March 25 straight into the next day, will feature sets from over 40 acts, includingÂ DJ Sneak, Satori, Art Department and, of course, Mr. Lazarus himself. It's sure to beÂ an experience from start to finish, with surprise performances and musical oddities that will make sure you're dancing for all 24 hours of this marathon.

Lazarus is known for taking his events beyond the music and making sure the audience has a unique and unforgettable experience. His other events include the impeccably thought-out Day Zero festival, which takes place in the Tulum jungle.Â

You can get tickets to Get LostÂ here, and be sure to check out the full lineup below.