Carson: 'There were other immigrants who came in the bottom of slave ships
Carson: 'There were other immigrants who came in the bottom of slave ships
Carson: 'There were other immigrants who came in the bottom of slave ships, who worked even longer, even harder, for less' Updated 0612 GMT (1412 HKT) March 7, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights Carson was confirmed to lead the department earlier this month "That's what America is about, a land of dreams and opportunity," Carson said Ben Carson appeared to liken slaves to immigrants who choose to come to the United States while addressing employees at the Department of Housing and Urban Development Monday. Ben Carson is also the guy who once compared Obamacare to slavery. I'm starting to think he may not understand the word "slavery." https://t.co/82PJcUC7Vg Immigrants??? https://t.co/f0RH7iXBrn

Story highlights Carson was confirmed to lead the department earlier this month

"That's what America is about, a land of dreams and opportunity," Carson said

Washington (CNN) Ben Carson appeared to liken slaves to immigrants who choose to come to the United States while addressing employees at the Department of Housing and Urban Development Monday.

Carson, who was confirmed to lead the department earlier this month, heralded the work ethic of immigrants before implying slaves who came to the United States worked harder than others.

"There were other immigrants who came in the bottom of slave ships, who worked even longer, even harder, for less, but they too had a dream that one day their sons, daughters, grandsons, granddaughters, great grandsons, great granddaughters might pursue prosperity and happiness in this land," said Carson, who is black.

"And do you know of all the nations in the world, this one, the United States of America, is the only one big enough and great enough to allow all those people to realize their dream. And this is our opportunity to enhance that dream," he added.

Earlier in the remarks, Carson said: "That's what America is about, a land of dreams and opportunity."

Read More