Visually Impaired Malayalam Singer Chooses Career Over Marriage, Sets A New World Record!
Visually Impaired Malayalam Singer Chooses Career Over Marriage, Sets A New World Record!
Visually Impaired Malayalam Singer Chooses Career Over Marriage, Sets A New World Record! For all those who are compromising with their dreams, here’s your inspiration! Malayalam singer Vaikkom Vijayalakshmi – who had called off her marriage after her fiancée asked her to quit performing at concerts and instead take up a job of a music teacher at some school – has set a world record recently. The visually impaired played 67 songs on Gayathri Veena in a single sitting at a concert in Kochi and bettered the record held for playing 51 songs earlier.The organisers of the event have stated that they will inform about her achievement to Guinness Book of World Records. Vaikkom Vijayalakshmi didn’t aim for 67 songs. Her initial plan was to play 52 songs. However, she didn't stop after 52 song and continued to play until 67 song. She has already been inspiring a lot of girls from Kerela after she called off her wedding to pursue a career in music, and now, she has given all of us another reason to admire her. “It was my decision to call off the wedding and I will never regret it. Music is my life. I had surrendered my heart and soul to it and when a time came where I had to choose music or him, I opted for music because it is an integral part of me and has made me what I am today. My parents gave me complete freedom to take the final call. And I decided to break it off,” she told TOI in an interview. We are all so proud of you, Vaikkom Vijayalakshmi! Congratulations!

For all those who are compromising with their dreams, here’s your inspiration!

Malayalam singer Vaikkom Vijayalakshmi – who had called off her marriage after her fiancée asked her to quit performing at concerts and instead take up a job of a music teacher at some school – has set a world record recently.

onlookersmedia.in

The visually impaired played 67 songs on Gayathri Veena in a single sitting at a concert in Kochi and bettered the record held for playing 51 songs earlier.The organisers of the event have stated that they will inform about her achievement to Guinness Book of World Records.

Vaikkom Vijayalakshmi didn’t aim for 67 songs. Her initial plan was to play 52 songs. However, she didn't stop after 52nd song and continued to play until 67th song.

TOI

She has already been inspiring a lot of girls from Kerela after she called off her wedding to pursue a career in music, and now, she has given all of us another reason to admire her.

Here’s what she said about calling off her wedding earlier:

“It was my decision to call off the wedding and I will never regret it. Music is my life. I had surrendered my heart and soul to it and when a time came where I had to choose music or him, I opted for music because it is an integral part of me and has made me what I am today. My parents gave me complete freedom to take the final call. And I decided to break it off,” she told TOI in an interview.

We are all so proud of you, Vaikkom Vijayalakshmi! Congratulations!

Don't Miss 50.7 K SHARES 61.4 K SHARES 35 K SHARES 44.5 K SHARES 27.5 K SHARES