Amazon shares data with Arkansas prosecutor in murder case
Amazon shares data with Arkansas prosecutor in murder case
Shares                 Amazon dropped its fight against a subpoena issued in an Arkansas murder case after the defendant said he wouldn't mind if the technology giant shared information that may have been gathered by an Amazon Echo smart speaker. James Andrew Bates has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder in the death of Victor Collins, who was found dead in a hot tub at Bates' home. In paperwork filed Monday, Bates said Amazon could share the information and Amazon said it handed over material on Friday. The Echo "listens" for key words and may have recorded what went on before Collins was found dead in November 2015. Amazon had fought a subpoena, citing its customers' privacy rights. A hearing had been set for Wednesday on whether any information gathered was even pertinent. Shares                  Amazon shares data with Arkansas prosecutor in murder case   House Republicans unveil Obamacare replacement plan   Exxon announces expansion program, Trump takes credit   Avalanche strikes French ski resort of Tignes; no fatalities   North Korea, Malaysia step up dispute over Kim's death   Supreme Court won't say if trans teen can pick bathroom   US warning to Israel signals new backpedaling by Trump   Afghan family with visas released after days of detention   Wedding ring attached to beads thrown in Fat Tuesday parade   Texas grandpa builds amusement park in backyard   Pregnant woman re-enacts giraffe livestream wearing mask   These mushers brave ice, snow and freezing temps to compete in Alaska’s Iditarod dogsled race   Journalist throws up during plane proposal to girlfriend   Young couple finds it 'freeing' to travel the country in a converted van   Dobby the newborn giraffe gets plasma treatment to bolster immune system   Iraqi forces storm Mosul government complex, hoist flag   NCIS investigating posting of nude photos of female Marines   Chance the Rapper: I'll donate $1M to Chicago public schools   Bird flu found at Tennessee farm as virus surges in Asia   Congressman apologizes for crude joke about Kellyanne Conway   For 1st time, Casey Anthony speaks about case   Emma Watson fires back at critics of her topless Vanity Fair photo   World's 1st woman in space, Valentina Tereshkova, turns 80   What's next for refugees who want to come to the US   'Flip or Flop' star reveals battle with cancer   Some real-world twin tips for Amal Clooney, Beyonce   Bruno Mars, Justin Timberlake shine at iHeartRadio Awards

Amazon dropped its fight against a subpoena issued in an Arkansas murder case after the defendant said he wouldn't mind if the technology giant shared information that may have been gathered by an Amazon Echo smart speaker.

James Andrew Bates has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder in the death of Victor Collins, who was found dead in a hot tub at Bates' home. In paperwork filed Monday, Bates said Amazon could share the information and Amazon said it handed over material on Friday.

The Echo "listens" for key words and may have recorded what went on before Collins was found dead in November 2015. Amazon had fought a subpoena, citing its customers' privacy rights.

A hearing had been set for Wednesday on whether any information gathered was even pertinent.