Fewer teachers, no trips: how is your school being affected by cuts?

Schools in England are having their budgets squeezed. A leading think-tank warned they face the first-real term cuts since the mid-1990s. The Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) found that spending per pupil is to fall 6.5% by 2019-20, although it added that school funding had been well protected over the past two decades. So what will the impact be? Teachers have taken to Twitter to highlight the stark choices they may have to make . Their tweets included pictures of, school trips, new textbooks, sporting events and more. Schools have already been struggling, with many reporting funding issues. Caversham primary school, for example, even appealed for donations from parents last month . On Twitter people have also claimed to have got letters from their schools saying teacher numbers may be reduced because of planned cuts . Share your experiences What’s the impact of budget cuts in your school? We want to hear from parents and teachers. Maybe you got sent a letter or message about the impact this week? Or if you are a teacher are you worried about what could happen over coming months? Perhaps your school has already been squeezed financially. If you’ve had to cut school trips or reduce textbooks then tell us about it. We want to hear your experiences. Share stories.  Education   Schools   Secondary schools   Primary school league tables   School tables   Primary schools

Schools in England are having their budgets squeezed. A leading think-tank warned they face the first-real term cuts since the mid-1990s.

The Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) found that spending per pupil is to fall 6.5% by 2019-20, although it added that school funding had been well protected over the past two decades.

Schools in England 'to see first real-terms funding cuts in 20 years' Read more

So what will the impact be? Teachers have taken to Twitter to highlight the stark choices they may have to make. Their tweets included pictures of, school trips, new textbooks, sporting events and more.

Schools have already been struggling, with many reporting funding issues. Caversham primary school, for example, even appealed for donations from parents last month. On Twitter people have also claimed to have got letters from their schools saying teacher numbers may be reduced because of planned cuts.



Share your experiences



What’s the impact of budget cuts in your school? We want to hear from parents and teachers. Maybe you got sent a letter or message about the impact this week? Or if you are a teacher are you worried about what could happen over coming months? Perhaps your school has already been squeezed financially. If you’ve had to cut school trips or reduce textbooks then tell us about it. We want to hear your experiences. Share stories.

