Game of Thrones season 7: New teaser released featuring Oathbreaker
Game of Thrones season 7: New teaser released featuring Oathbreaker
With season seven of having been delayed past the usual April release period, fans are growing more and more impatient. While HBO has yet to release a full trailer, we’ve seen a snippet of new footage : around five seconds, featuring Maisie Williams’ Arya, Sophie Turner’s Sansa and Kit Harrington’s Jon Snow. Thanks to a newly unveiled ‘in Production Now’ clip, a little more has been released. However, don’t be too excited, as we merely see Brienne of Tarth’s famous sword Oathbreaker. Ohhh... a little #GameofThrones S7 #InProduction love tonight. @WatchersOTWall  #Oathkeeper  pic.twitter.com/9lwTLvUKi6 Fans are already speculating over whose hand is wielding the sword, many believing it not to be Brienne’s. But who? Podrick is one name being thrown around. Jaime as well (but unlikely). Meanwhile, Ser Davos actor Liam Cunningham recently revealed will likely return in July later this year while filming for season eight commences in September. In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6               In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6    Ramsay Bolton   Fed to the hounds by his ex-wife      Tommen Baratheon   Jumped out of a window      Rickon Stark   Shot by Ramsay with an arrow      Grand Maester Pycelle   Stabbed by little birds      Loras Tyrell   Wildfire      Alliser Thorne   Hung      Olly   Hung #F*ckOlly      Walder Frey   Ticked off the list      Shaggydog   Head cut off      Summer   Ripped apart by White Walkers      High Sparrow   Wildfire      The Blackfish   Killed off-screen…      Hodor   Hold the door…      Trystane Martell   Stabbed through the face by those damned Sand Snakes      Leaf   Blown up saving Bran      Walda Frey and her little boy   Fed to the hounds      Balon Greyjoy   Thrown off a bridge by his brother      Lady Crane   Fell off a chair      Mace Tyrell   Wildfire      The Waif   Killed in the dark by Arya Stark      Lothar Frey and Black Walder Rivers   Fray pie      Brother Lancel Lannister   Stabbed once then blown up by Wildfire      Lem Lemoncloak   Hung by the Brotherhood Without Banners plus The Hound      Brother Ray   Hung by Leomoncloak and his gang      Three-Eyed Raven   Killed by the Night’s King      Margaery Tyrell   Wildfire      Khal Rhalko, Khal Brozho, Khal Qorro, Khal Forzho, Khal Moro   Burnt by the Mother of Dragons      Roose Bolton   Stabbed in the chest by his own son      Kevan Lannister   Wildfire      Smalljon Umber   Beaten by Tormund      Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun   That Goddamn Ramsay again      Osha   Throat slit by Ramsay      Doran Martell   Stabbed in the hearth by Ellaria Sand      Areo Hotah   Stabbed in the spine by Tyene Sand   Unlike previous seasons, there will be few episodes per season, the next containing just seven. No official release date has been announced by HBO, by Cunningham hinted at “something special happening” in the coming months for the premiere. More about: Game of Thrones season 7 Game of Thrones Comments

With season seven of Game of Thrones having been delayed past the usual April release period, fans are growing more and more impatient.

While HBO has yet to release a full trailer, we’ve seen a snippet of new footage: around five seconds, featuring Maisie Williams’ Arya, Sophie Turner’s Sansa and Kit Harrington’s Jon Snow.

Thanks to a newly unveiled ‘in Production Now’ clip, a little more has been released. However, don’t be too excited, as we merely see Brienne of Tarth’s famous sword Oathbreaker.

Fans are already speculating over whose hand is wielding the sword, many believing it not to be Brienne’s. But who? Podrick is one name being thrown around. Jaime as well (but unlikely).

Meanwhile, Ser Davos actor Liam Cunningham recently revealed Game of Thrones will likely return in July later this year while filming for season eight commences in September.

In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6







34 show all In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6

































































1/34 Ramsay Bolton Fed to the hounds by his ex-wife

2/34 Tommen Baratheon Jumped out of a window

3/34 Rickon Stark Shot by Ramsay with an arrow

4/34 Grand Maester Pycelle Stabbed by little birds

5/34 Loras Tyrell Wildfire

6/34 Alliser Thorne Hung

7/34 Olly Hung #F*ckOlly

8/34 Walder Frey Ticked off the list

9/34 Shaggydog Head cut off

10/34 Summer Ripped apart by White Walkers

11/34 High Sparrow Wildfire

12/34 The Blackfish Killed off-screen…

13/34 Hodor Hold the door…

14/34 Trystane Martell Stabbed through the face by those damned Sand Snakes

15/34 Leaf Blown up saving Bran

16/34 Walda Frey and her little boy Fed to the hounds

17/34 Balon Greyjoy Thrown off a bridge by his brother

18/34 Lady Crane Fell off a chair

19/34 Mace Tyrell Wildfire

20/34 The Waif Killed in the dark by Arya Stark

21/34 Lothar Frey and Black Walder Rivers Fray pie

22/34 Brother Lancel Lannister Stabbed once then blown up by Wildfire

23/34 Lem Lemoncloak Hung by the Brotherhood Without Banners plus The Hound

24/34 Brother Ray Hung by Leomoncloak and his gang

25/34 Three-Eyed Raven Killed by the Night’s King

26/34 Margaery Tyrell Wildfire

27/34 Khal Rhalko, Khal Brozho, Khal Qorro, Khal Forzho, Khal Moro Burnt by the Mother of Dragons

28/34 Roose Bolton Stabbed in the chest by his own son

29/34 Kevan Lannister Wildfire

30/34 Smalljon Umber Beaten by Tormund

31/34 Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun That Goddamn Ramsay again

32/34 Osha Throat slit by Ramsay

33/34 Doran Martell Stabbed in the hearth by Ellaria Sand

34/34 Areo Hotah Stabbed in the spine by Tyene Sand

Unlike previous seasons, there will be few episodes per season, the next containing just seven. No official release date has been announced by HBO, by Cunningham hinted at “something special happening” in the coming months for the premiere.