Tornadoes slam Midwest, leaving behind a trail of destroyed homes and displaced residents
Tornadoes slam Midwest, leaving behind a trail of destruction
Shares               The Midwest was slammed with 29 reported tornadoes Monday, according to the National Weather Service Storm Prediction Center, leaving behind a trail of damaged homes and displaced and injured residents. Missouri, Illinois, and Kansas were among the states hit.  Several homes damaged in Oak Grove by possible tornado https://t.co/oF9kZB31KA  pic.twitter.com/zQrmTM2TPw  "These 29 reported tornadoes occurred late Monday afternoon into Monday night," ABC News meteorologist Daniel Manzo said. "This made a for a very perilous situation for millions of Americans ... in addition to the tornadoes, giant tennis ball sized hail was reported across eastern Kansas and Missouri."  Hail up to tennis ball-sized reported in parts of the metro https://t.co/Jqc7SyxfGe  pic.twitter.com/fIuMpOBkLW  Chief Carl Scarborough of the Sni Valley Fire Protection District in Oak Grove, Missouri, told ABC News Monday night that between 100 and 200 people have been displaced from their homes, but that figure may increase. He added that "dozens and dozens" of homes have sustained moderate to severe damage in Oak Grove, with a significant number of additional sustaining light to minimal damage. Scarborough said he is aware of 12 people who were treated for injuries, three of whom were transported to the hospital. None of the injuries were life-threatening.   Most of Oak Grove -- located about 30 miles east of Kansas City -- was without power, as of Monday night, as power lines were down as a result of falling trees and airborne debris. In Smithville, Missouri, located about 22 miles north of Kansas City, police Chief Jason Lockridge told The Associated Press that 20 to 25 homes were damaged. Planes and hangars at the Johnson County Executive Airport in Olathe, Kansas, were also damaged.   The city of Smithville posted on it Facebook page that "one person was injured but was not transported to the hospital." Kansas City Power & Light reported on its website early Tuesday morning that about 40,000 customers were without power. That's down from more than 100,000 late Monday night. Looking ahead, Manzo says "the threat for severe weather shifts southward today with possible damaging winds and large hail from northern Louisiana to Southern Tennessee."  Shares                  Tornadoes slam Midwest, leaving behind a trail of destruction   House Republicans unveil Obamacare replacement plan   Exxon announces expansion program, Trump takes credit   Avalanche strikes French ski resort of Tignes; no fatalities   North Korea, Malaysia step up dispute over Kim's death   Supreme Court won't say if trans teen can pick bathroom   US warning to Israel signals new backpedaling by Trump   Afghan family with visas released after days of detention   Wedding ring attached to beads thrown in Fat Tuesday parade   Texas grandpa builds amusement park in backyard   Pregnant woman re-enacts giraffe livestream wearing mask   These mushers brave ice, snow and freezing temps to compete in Alaska’s Iditarod dogsled race   Journalist throws up during plane proposal to girlfriend   Young couple finds it 'freeing' to travel the country in a converted van   Dobby the newborn giraffe gets plasma treatment to bolster immune system   Iraqi forces storm Mosul government complex, hoist flag   NCIS investigating posting of nude photos of female Marines   Chance the Rapper: I'll donate $1M to Chicago public schools   Bird flu found at Tennessee farm as virus surges in Asia   Congressman apologizes for crude joke about Kellyanne Conway   For 1st time, Casey Anthony speaks about case   Emma Watson fires back at critics of her topless Vanity Fair photo   World's 1st woman in space, Valentina Tereshkova, turns 80   What's next for refugees who want to come to the US   'Flip or Flop' star reveals battle with cancer   Some real-world twin tips for Amal Clooney, Beyonce   Bruno Mars, Justin Timberlake shine at iHeartRadio Awards

The Midwest was slammed with 29 reported tornadoes Monday, according to the National Weather Service Storm Prediction Center, leaving behind a trail of damaged homes and displaced and injured residents.

Missouri, Illinois, and Kansas were among the states hit.

Several homes damaged in Oak Grove by possible tornado https://t.co/oF9kZB31KA pic.twitter.com/zQrmTM2TPw — KMBC (@kmbc) March 7, 2017

"These 29 reported tornadoes occurred late Monday afternoon into Monday night," ABC News meteorologist Daniel Manzo said. "This made a for a very perilous situation for millions of Americans ... in addition to the tornadoes, giant tennis ball sized hail was reported across eastern Kansas and Missouri."

Hail up to tennis ball-sized reported in parts of the metro https://t.co/Jqc7SyxfGe pic.twitter.com/fIuMpOBkLW — KMBC (@kmbc) March 7, 2017

Chief Carl Scarborough of the Sni Valley Fire Protection District in Oak Grove, Missouri, told ABC News Monday night that between 100 and 200 people have been displaced from their homes, but that figure may increase. He added that "dozens and dozens" of homes have sustained moderate to severe damage in Oak Grove, with a significant number of additional sustaining light to minimal damage.

Scarborough said he is aware of 12 people who were treated for injuries, three of whom were transported to the hospital. None of the injuries were life-threatening.

Most of Oak Grove -- located about 30 miles east of Kansas City -- was without power, as of Monday night, as power lines were down as a result of falling trees and airborne debris.

In Smithville, Missouri, located about 22 miles north of Kansas City, police Chief Jason Lockridge told The Associated Press that 20 to 25 homes were damaged. Planes and hangars at the Johnson County Executive Airport in Olathe, Kansas, were also damaged.

The city of Smithville posted on it Facebook page that "one person was injured but was not transported to the hospital."

Kansas City Power & Light reported on its website early Tuesday morning that about 40,000 customers were without power. That's down from more than 100,000 late Monday night.

Looking ahead, Manzo says "the threat for severe weather shifts southward today with possible damaging winds and large hail from northern Louisiana to Southern Tennessee."

ABC News' Rachel Katz contributed to this report.