5 things for Tuesday, March 7, 2017: Health care, immigration, North Korea
5 things for Tuesday, March 7, 2017
5 things for Tuesday, March 7, 2017: Health care, immigration, North Korea Updated 1142 GMT (1942 HKT) March 7, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. Here's what you need to know to . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here . 1. Health care 2. Immigration 3. North Korea 4. Layoffs 5. Monuments BREAKFAST BROWSE QUOTE OF THE DAY AND FINALLY  ...

(CNN) Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door . You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here .

1. Health care

Republicans have rolled out their long-awaited bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act , and there is a LOT to unpack. The American Health Care Act would eliminate the individual mandate, which requires most everyone to have health insurance or pay a penalty. It would also make changes to things like Medicaid and health savings accounts. People who seem likely to benefit from the new plan are young people, healthy people and the country's highest earners. Older people, those with pre-existing conditions and lower-income Americans may not like it so much.

2. Immigration

On a related note, Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly told CNN the department is considering separating children from their parents at the border. He said the plan would help combat child exploitation, since currently adults found crossing the border with children are typically allowed to stay in the US.

3. North Korea

It's a mess. Follow this: Three North Korean nationals wanted for questioning in the murder of Kim Jong Un's half brother Kim Jong Nam are said to be hiding out in the North Korean embassy in Malaysia. In response, North Korea barred all Malaysian citizens from leaving the country . Malaysia said the move means North Korea is basically holding Malaysians hostage, so its leaders in turn barred North Koreans from leaving THEIR country until the Malaysians in North Korea are guaranteed safety.

4. Layoffs

Bad times ahead for employees of General Motors and ESPN. GM has announced it's cutting 1,100 jobs in Michigan . That's the fourth round of layoffs the company's had since November. ESPN also announced layoffs , but these are way different: The sports giant says the cuts will affect "talent," a.k.a. people who appear on TV, radio and online. The move will apparently help trim millions of dollars from the channel's budget.

5. Monuments

BREAKFAST BROWSE

People are talking about these. Read up. Join in.



Study: Social media linked to feelings of isolation

This is the small handful of people Trump follows on Twitter

Bill Paxton died of a stroke after heart surgery

Robert Osborne, Turner Classic Movies host, has died

On the bright side, there's going to be a mini-sequel to 'Love Actually' (!!!)

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"There were other immigrants who came in the bottom of slave ships, who worked even longer, even harder, for less..."

Dr. Ben Carson, offering an alternative perspective on slavery , during an address to employees at the Department of Housing and Urban Development

AND FINALLY ...

#RelationshipGoals