Donald Trump-inspired app counts how often men interrupt women
Donald Trump-inspired app counts how often men interrupt women
Tired of being interrupted? A new app claims it may be able to help. Called Woman Interrupted , the app uses your smartphone's microphone to analyze conversations and track how many times men interrupt women in a given conversation. SEE ALSO: Lego's next release screams girl power and we're totally here for it Created by Brazilian ad agency BETC to coincide with International Women's Day, the app's creators say Woman Interrupted was inspired in part by the first presidential debate when Donald Trump repeatedly interrupted Hillary Clinton. The app, which is available for both iOS and Android , uses your smartphone's microphone to track conversations and determine the number of interruptions in a given conversation. Using voice frequencies as a guide, the app keeps tabs on how many times mens' voices overlap with women's to determine the number of interruptions. There's also an initial calibration process where the app "learns" your own voice to make its tracking more accurate. Image:  woman interrupted When a conversation is over, the app will map out the number of interruptions, which you can track over time. Though the app is targeted to women, BETC says it can also be used by men who may not realize how much they interrupt the women around them. (It will not track how often women may interrupt men.) As more people use it, the agency says it will compile the data into a global map to track just how prevalent "manterrupting" is around the world. Tracking the number of interruptions is only the first step though, according to BETC. The ultimate goal, they say, is "to generate awareness and more debate around manterrupting," particularly in professional settings. BONUS: These tattoos conduct electricity, turning you into a very basic cyborg

Tired of being interrupted? A new app claims it may be able to help.

Called Woman Interrupted, the app uses your smartphone's microphone to analyze conversations and track how many times men interrupt women in a given conversation.

Created by Brazilian ad agency BETC to coincide with International Women's Day, the app's creators say Woman Interrupted was inspired in part by the first presidential debate when Donald Trump repeatedly interrupted Hillary Clinton.

The app, which is available for both iOS and Android, uses your smartphone's microphone to track conversations and determine the number of interruptions in a given conversation.

Using voice frequencies as a guide, the app keeps tabs on how many times mens' voices overlap with women's to determine the number of interruptions. There's also an initial calibration process where the app "learns" your own voice to make its tracking more accurate.

Image: woman interrupted

When a conversation is over, the app will map out the number of interruptions, which you can track over time. Though the app is targeted to women, BETC says it can also be used by men who may not realize how much they interrupt the women around them. (It will not track how often women may interrupt men.)

As more people use it, the agency says it will compile the data into a global map to track just how prevalent "manterrupting" is around the world.

Tracking the number of interruptions is only the first step though, according to BETC. The ultimate goal, they say, is "to generate awareness and more debate around manterrupting," particularly in professional settings.