Sushma Swaraj Guarantees Help To A Woman Who Suffered A Heart Problem On Flight
Sushma Swaraj Guarantees Help To A Woman Who Suffered A Heart Problem On Flight
Sushma Swaraj Guarantees Help To A Woman Who Suffered A Heart Problem On Flight In a series of tweets yesterday, Sushma Swaraj promised help to an ailing woman who developed a heart condition while flying on a flight. Kirit Shah was travelling from Mumbai to Newark when his wife Minaxi Shah suffered a cardiac problem. The flight made an emergency landing at the Bodo airport in Norway where Shah was admitted to a hospital. After speaking to her husband, Swaraj tweeted that she had directed her mission to offer all help required by the couple. The woman is now stable. Mr.Kirit Shah and Mrs.Minaxi Shah were travelling on AI Flt from Mumbai to Newark on 4th March when Mrs.Shah developed cardiac problem. /1 The flight had to make an emergency landing at the Bodo airport in Norway. Mrs.Shah was admitted in Nordland hospital. /2 I have spoken to Mr.Kirit Shah. He has informed me that Mrs.Shah is stable. I assured him that our Mission will provide them all help. /3 People lauded Swaraj for her swift action. @SushmaSwaraj  हिंदुस्तान को आप जैसे नेत्री पर गर्ब है @SushmaSwaraj You have been a blessing to all #India Best thing to happen along with good governance under @narendramodi Well, she is the best we have.

In a series of tweets yesterday, Sushma Swaraj promised help to an ailing woman who developed a heart condition while flying on a flight.

Kirit Shah was travelling from Mumbai to Newark when his wife Minaxi Shah suffered a cardiac problem. The flight made an emergency landing at the Bodo airport in Norway where Shah was admitted to a hospital.

bccl

After speaking to her husband, Swaraj tweeted that she had directed her mission to offer all help required by the couple. The woman is now stable.

Mr.Kirit Shah and Mrs.Minaxi Shah were travelling on AI Flt from Mumbai to Newark on 4th March when Mrs.Shah developed cardiac problem. /1 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 6, 2017

The flight had to make an emergency landing at the Bodo airport in Norway. Mrs.Shah was admitted in Nordland hospital. /2 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 6, 2017

I have spoken to Mr.Kirit Shah. He has informed me that Mrs.Shah is stable. I assured him that our Mission will provide them all help. /3 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 6, 2017

People lauded Swaraj for her swift action.

@SushmaSwaraj You have been a blessing to all #India Best thing to happen along with good governance under @narendramodi — Ritesh (@WithRitesh) March 6, 2017

Well, she is the best we have.