Health Care, Immigration Ban, North Korea: Your Tuesday Briefing
Health Care, Immigration Ban, North Korea: Your Tuesday Briefing
House Republicans have unveiled a plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, setting the stage for a potentially bitter debate over health coverage. The bill would eliminate the mandate for most Americans to have health insurance in favor of a new system of tax credits. Here’s a look at which parts of Obamacare would remain, be changed or scrapped . The organization said the trove sheds light on tools the C.I.A. uses to break into smartphones, computers and even internet-connected televisions. Advertisement A source was not identified, but WikiLeaks said the documents had been “circulated among former U.S. government hackers and contractors in an unauthorized manner, one of whom has provided WikiLeaks with portions of the archive.” Advertisement A revised executive order barring citizens of six predominantly Muslim countries (Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen) from the U.S. will be phased in over the next two weeks. It differs from President Trump’s first immigration ban , which was blocked by a federal appeals court, by including exemptions for travelers from Iraq, as well as for permanent residents of the U.S. and current visa holders. Separately, we look at how a rural road in New York State has become a trail for migrants to reach Canada in hopes of obtaining asylum. Advertisement The justices ruled 5 to 3 on Monday that jury secrecy does not apply if evidence emerges that deliberations included remarks indicating racial or ethnic bias . The court also said it would not decide whether a transgender boy , Gavin Grimm, could use the boys’ bathroom at his high school in Virginia. Advertisement Related to that issue, the website Yelp is tracking restaurants and stores that have gender-neutral bathrooms . The U.S. has started to deploy an antimissile system in South Korea after North Korea launched four ballistic missiles on Monday. China says the U.S. system is a threat to its security. Advertisement And in Europe, there is serious talk about using France’s arsenal to establish an E.U. nuclear weapons program . Advertisement A Turkish referendum that would expand the powers of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is at the heart of the dispute. Advertisement After two campaign rallies for Turks living in Germany were canceled over security concerns, Mr. Erdogan accused Berlin of using “Nazi” tactics. His opponents say he is defending the right to free speech in Europe, while denying it to dissident voices at home . Today’s episode focuses on how Mr. Trump’s new targeted travel ban differs from his first in presentation and in substance. Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Advertisement Listen from a computer , on an iOS device or on an Android device . Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business  against Sterling Jewelers that accuses the company of pay discrimination against women has shed light on the drawbacks of widely used corporate procedures like confidential tip lines. And in Britain, lawmakers are pressing for stronger rules to ensure that women will never again be forced to wear high heels at work . whose jobs have been automated can’t find new ones. We look at policies economists think could help . that iTunes customers are asked to sign is the basis of a new graphic novel, “ Terms and Conditions .” Advertisement were down on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living be a part of your morning routine? The science is still mostly unclear . Advertisement : Elegant m ini almond cakes can be filled with cherry jam or, with a little effort, chocolate ganache. Advertisement Noteworthy Preserving a Brooklyn Temple of Graffiti The Batcave, a derelict warehouse in Brooklyn, was a canvas for graffiti for decades. Visit it in this 360° video before it is renovated.      A derelict warehouse in Brooklyn was a haven for graffiti artists for decades. O ur 360 video visits the space before it gets renovated. The booby has no real predators to fear in the Ecuadorean archipelago. Advertisement As a result, the blue-footed bird lives a proud and public life, on display in its highly ritualized courtship . “Afghan Star,” a TV competition similar to “American Idol,” serves as a counterweight in a conservative society that mostly views music as vulgar, especially when the performers are women . The show’s judges drive around in armored vehicles, and the contestants live in a compound in Kabul for the duration of the program. Anderson Cooper of CNN stopped by “The Late Show” to talk about President Trump’s posts on Twitter. Advertisement Back Story The U.S. Postal Service’s stamp issue this week pays homage to the federal arts program that gave some of the 20th century’s most famous American artists their start. Advertisement But it might not have. In the mid-1930s, at the height of the Depression, unemployment was soaring at 25 percent. President Franklin D. Roosevelt created the Work Projects Administration to put Americans back to work. Artists, who often didn’t have regular jobs in the first place, weren’t certain to be included. But Harry Hopkins, who directed the W.P.A., decided they should be. “Hell,” he said , “they’ve got to eat just like other people!” So the Federal Art Project of the W.P.A. was created. Over nine years, it spawned more than 100,000 paintings and murals and nearly 20,000 sculptures. Advertisement Some of the artists employed by the program went on to become famous, including Jackson Pollock, Mark Rothko, and Willem de Kooning. “I changed my attitude toward being an artist,” de Kooning once said. “Instead of doing odd jobs and painting on the side, I painted and did odd jobs on the side.” Advertisement We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Listen from a computer, on an iOS device or on an Android device.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• A class-action lawsuit against Sterling Jewelers that accuses the company of pay discrimination against women has shed light on the drawbacks of widely used corporate procedures like confidential tip lines.

And in Britain, lawmakers are pressing for stronger rules to ensure that women will never again be forced to wear high heels at work.

• Many people whose jobs have been automated can’t find new ones. We look at policies economists think could help.

• The user agreement that iTunes customers are asked to sign is the basis of a new graphic novel, “Terms and Conditions.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• U.S. stocks were down on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• Should supplements be a part of your morning routine? The science is still mostly unclear.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Recipe of the day: Elegant mini almond cakes can be filled with cherry jam or, with a little effort, chocolate ganache.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Noteworthy

• A tour of the “Batcave.”

Video

A derelict warehouse in Brooklyn was a haven for graffiti artists for decades. Our 360 video visits the space before it gets renovated.

• It’s mating season in the Galápagos.

The booby has no real predators to fear in the Ecuadorean archipelago.

Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As a result, the blue-footed bird lives a proud and public life, on display in its highly ritualized courtship.

• Risky entertainment.

“Afghan Star,” a TV competition similar to “American Idol,” serves as a counterweight in a conservative society that mostly views music as vulgar, especially when the performers are women.

The show’s judges drive around in armored vehicles, and the contestants live in a compound in Kabul for the duration of the program.

• Best of late-night TV.

Anderson Cooper of CNN stopped by “The Late Show” to talk about President Trump’s posts on Twitter.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Back Story

The U.S. Postal Service’s stamp issue this week pays homage to the federal arts program that gave some of the 20th century’s most famous American artists their start.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But it might not have.

Photo

In the mid-1930s, at the height of the Depression, unemployment was soaring at 25 percent. President Franklin D. Roosevelt created the Work Projects Administration to put Americans back to work.

Artists, who often didn’t have regular jobs in the first place, weren’t certain to be included. But Harry Hopkins, who directed the W.P.A., decided they should be.

“Hell,” he said, “they’ve got to eat just like other people!”

So the Federal Art Project of the W.P.A. was created. Over nine years, it spawned more than 100,000 paintings and murals and nearly 20,000 sculptures.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some of the artists employed by the program went on to become famous, including Jackson Pollock, Mark Rothko, and Willem de Kooning.

“I changed my attitude toward being an artist,” de Kooning once said. “Instead of doing odd jobs and painting on the side, I painted and did odd jobs on the side.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Evan Gershkovich contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.