NCAA Conference Tournaments 2017: Last-Second Predictions for Major Conferences
NCAA Conference Tournaments 2017: Last-Second Predictions for Major Conferences
NCAA Conference Tournaments 2017: Last-Second Predictions for Major Conferences Conference tournament action has been underway for a little while now, and we've already had a handful of teams from smaller leagues earn their spot in the NCAA tournament. But it's not until the big boys start holding their tournaments do things really get going. That begins Tuesday when the ACC begins its tourney in Brooklyn, New York, then on Wednesday action starts in the Atlantic 10, Big East, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and SEC tournaments. The last major tourney to begin is the American, which starts on Friday. Those eight leagues will end up producing the bulk of the 68-team NCAA tournament field through both automatic qualifiers and at-large bids, making every game played in those tourneys important for determining the overall NCAA field. Who makes the final and who wins it all remains the most important part, though, and we've got an idea of which teams will be playing for titles in those conferences. Check out our predictions for who will win and who they'll beat in the final. ACC North Carolina (26-6) won the regular-season title by two games over a trio of teams, including Notre Dame, but its dominance in the league is more telling than that. The Tar Heels' four conference losses came to teams seeded fifth or worse, while against Florida State, Louisville and Notre Dame they went 3-0 and won by an average 10.3 points. Sure, all three of those games were in Chapel Hill, but it's not like any team in the ACC tournament is going to have much of a home-court advantage with the event moving to Brooklyn this year. Location and matchups aside, UNC has a clear advantage over the rest of the league when it comes to rebounding. It collects 58.7 percent of available rebounds, tops in Division I , and has won the rebounding battle in 27 of 31 games. Notre Dame will use its great free-throw shooting— first in the country at 80.9 percent—to get to the final, likely winning some close games along the way, but outside of undersized big man Bonzie Colson there's no one else who can grab a rebound. It would be a different case if the Fighting Irish could face Duke in the final, which is entirely possible if the fourth-seeded Blue Devils (23-8) can put it all together, but it's hard to pick against UNC right now. American It's been a two-team race in the American all season long, so there's no reason to think anyone other than regular-season champion SMU (27-4) and second-place Cincinnati (27-4) will make the final. Some consideration was given to Connecticut for the fact the tournament is in Hartford, but since the Huskies' record there wasn't great that isn't going to happen. SMU's only loss in league play was by two at Cincinnati on Jan. 12, and since then it's won 13 in a row. But that and the rematch in Dallas on Feb. 12 (which the Mustangs won by nine) are the only games they've played against a top-50 ratings percentage index (RPI) opponent since losing at USC on Nov. 25. In other words, SMU hasn't really been challenged much of late. Cincinnati has faced slightly more competition thanks to the well-placed rivalry game against Xavier in late January. It won that as part of a 15-game win streak and would have tied SMU for first had it not lost at UCF on Feb. 26. The rubber match between Cincy and SMU should be one of the best conference finals of the week, pitting two of the best defensive teams in the country. We're going with the Bearcats simply on a hunch since they're so evenly matched. Atlantic 10 Rhode Island (21-9) heads into this week firmly on the NCAA tournament bubble needing to make some noise in the Atlantic 10 tourney in order to earn its first bid since 1999. The best way to do that is to win the whole darn thing and take the selection committee out of the equation. The Rams come in on a five-game win streak after what was their low point of the year, a 10-point home loss to 10th-place Fordham. They scored only 43 points and shot a season-low 30.4 percent, still shell-shocked from the way they had lost their previous game at home to Dayton by giving up a four-point lead in the final 20 seconds. Rhode Island was swept by regular-season champ Dayton (24-6) and will be out for revenge, getting a chance for some in the semifinals as the No. 4 seed following a quarterfinal win over St. Bonaventure. That will set up a final against second-seeded VCU (24-7), whom it beat by 10 in late February, in an all-Ram championship. Big East Villanova (28-3) has dominated the Big East in its current version, winning all four regular-season titles since the league splintered into two conferences following the departure of Louisville, Notre Dame, Pittsburgh and Syracuse. The Wildcats have only claimed the Big East tourney once in that span, though, losing to Seton Hall in last year's final after winning it in 2015. To win another title, though, Villanova will have to get past the two teams that have been responsible for all of its losses. Marquette (19-11) beat the Wildcats in Milwaukee in late January, and it is in line to be 'Nova's semifinal opponent assuming the Golden Eagles can topple Seton Hall in the quarterfinals. That leaves Butler, which swept the Wildcats, in the final. Butler (23-7) won each game against 'Nova by eight, but that superiority didn't carry over to the rest of the conference as the Bulldogs lost six games including Feb. 11 at Providence. That's who they're set to face in the semifinals, and the Friars would be playing to ensure they can improve their NCAA tourney chances. Big 12 Kansas' dominance in the Big 12 during the regular season is well-documented, with the Jayhawks claiming their 13th consecutive title. When it comes to the conference tournament, though, they're batting just .667 with only one championship (2016) in the last three years. The previous two titles went to Iowa State, as a No. 4 seed in 2014 and the No. 2 seed a year later. Monte Morris, Nazareth Mitrou-Long and Matt Thomas were a part of those teams as freshmen and sophomores, needing to get through Kansas at some point to win those Big 12 crowns, and the same will be the case this week in Kansas City. Losing at West Virginia in the regular-season finale dropped Iowa State (20-10) to the fourth seed but meant it wouldn't have to see the second Mountaineers or third-seeded Baylor—against whom it lost three of four—until the final. And knocking off Kansas in the semifinals would clear out a lot of the fans and turn the crowd in the Cyclones' favor, particularly when it gets West Virginia for a third time in the title game. The Mountaineers (24-7) will take down Baylor in the semifinals the way it did by 21 back in mid-January, by forcing a litany of turnovers. But with Iowa State having just dealt with Press Virginia recently, and with soon-to-be career assist-to-turnover ratio record-holder Morris having the ball in his hands, the Cyclones will come out on top. Big Ten A year ago Michigan State rolled through the Big Ten tournament as one of the hottest teams in the country only to end up getting a No. 2 seed in the NCAA tourney. What followed was one of the biggest upsets ever, with the Spartans falling to 15th-seeded Middle Tennessee. This time around it's the Spartans (18-13) who are going to be in upset mode from here on out, the result of an injury-plagued season which resulted in a No. 5 seed and their first time having to play in the Big Ten tourney prior to the quarterfinals since 2011. And none of the teams that would have to face them in Washington, D.C. are happy about that despite MSU's struggles. Bleacher Report's Kerry Miller listed MSU as the team most likely to pull a "Kemba," in reference to the 2011 Connecticut team led by Kemba Walker that won five games in five days to claim the Big East tourney and then ran the table in the NCAA tournament. Such a run would start against either Nebraska or Penn State and then continue in the quarterfinals against a Minnesota team it swept. The biggest hurdle comes in the semifinals, likely against regular-season champ Purdue, which it lost to twice this season. Get past that one and it's a final against either No. 2 Wisconsin, No. 3 Maryland or possibly sixth-seeded Northwestern. Maryland (24-7) is essentially playing in its backyard and will be well represented by fans at the Verizon Center. That will lift the Terrapins to the title game but no further as MSU will get payback for the Melo Trimble three-pointer at the buzzer that cost it at Maryland in Saturday's regular-season finale. Pac-12 UCLA was the most-hyped team out of the Pac-12 heading into this season and it wasn't even close, the product of a mammoth freshman class expected to breathe life into a program that was listing after a 15-17 record in 2015-16. This hype continued during a perfect preseason run that included winning at Kentucky. Reality set in during the first half of the conference schedule, though, with the Bruins (28-3) losing at Oregon and USC, and at home to Arizona, and suddenly any discussion of this talented team being Final Four-caliber went silent. But then UCLA turned things around and won its last nine including taking the rematch against all three foes that felled it earlier. The third-seeded Bruins will get to repeat that feat in Las Vegas since its opening game is likely to be against sixth-seeded USC—unless the Trojans fall to Washington on Wednesday—followed by a semifinal clash with No. 2 Arizona (27-4) and top seed Oregon (27-4). UCLA's impressive performance in winning at Arizona two weeks ago should help it overcome what is likely to be a pro-Wildcats crowd in Vegas, setting up a barn burner of a rubber match with the Ducks. Oregon has won at least a share of the regular-season Pac-12 title the last two seasons and won the conference tourney in 2016. This will be its third straight trip to the tourney final, but it won't repeat with the way UCLA is playing of late. SEC No team has won more SEC tournament titles than Kentucky, and it's not even close. The Wildcats' 29 titles are two more than the rest of the field, with Alabama (six) the second most successful despite having not won the tourney since 1991. Florida (24-7) has been the closest thing to a nemesis for Kentucky in this event, with the Gators' most recent crown in 2014 coming over the Wildcats in the final. They split with Kentucky (26-5) this season, the last team to beat the Wildcats back on Feb. 4. Kentucky is riding a season-high eight-game win streak, but it hasn't been a cakewalk. Seven of the victories were by 10 or fewer points, and the last two required major rallies to beat Vanderbilt at home and at Texas A&M. Florida isn't a lock to make the final since it's on tap to play Vanderbilt in the quarterfinals and has lost twice to the Commodores. But assuming the Gators avoid a third loss to Vandy they match up well with No. 3 Arkansas and own a season sweep of the Razorbacks.  . Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

1 of 9

Andy Lyons/Getty Images

Conference tournament action has been underway for a little while now, and we've already had a handful of teams from smaller leagues earn their spot in the NCAA tournament. But it's not until the big boys start holding their tournaments do things really get going.

That begins Tuesday when the ACC begins its tourney in Brooklyn, New York, then on Wednesday action starts in the Atlantic 10, Big East, Big Ten, Big 12, Pac-12 and SEC tournaments. The last major tourney to begin is the American, which starts on Friday.

Those eight leagues will end up producing the bulk of the 68-team NCAA tournament field through both automatic qualifiers and at-large bids, making every game played in those tourneys important for determining the overall NCAA field. Who makes the final and who wins it all remains the most important part, though, and we've got an idea of which teams will be playing for titles in those conferences.

Check out our predictions for who will win and who they'll beat in the final.