American Indians to protest Trump, pipeline in Washington
American Indians to protest Trump, pipeline in Washington
Shares                American Indians from across the country are bringing their frustrations with the Trump administration and its approval of the Dakota Access oil pipeline to the nation's capital Tuesday, kicking off four days of activities that will culminate in a march on the White House . Tribal members and supporters plan to camp each day on the National Mall, with teepees, a ceremonial fire, cultural workshops and speakers. Native American leaders also plan to lobby lawmakers to protect tribal rights. "We are calling on all our Native relatives and allies to rise with us," said Dave Archambault, the chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe. "We must march against injustice. Native nations cannot continue to be pushed aside to benefit corporate interests and government whim." On Friday, the 2-mile "Native Nations March on DC" will lead participants from the Army Corps of Engineers office to a rally near the White House. Organizers said they expect thousands of people to take part. The White House referred a request for comment to the Interior Department. That department referred the inquiry to the Corps, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday. The protest comes as a federal judge in Washington weighs a request by the Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Sioux tribes to halt construction of the last section of the Dakota Access pipeline pending the outcomes of their lawsuit to stop the project. The tribes say that section of the pipeline, which will pass under Lake Oahe, a large Missouri River reservoir, will threaten their water supply, sacred sites and religious rights. The judge is expected to rule this week. The march Friday will begin at the Army Corps of Engineers office because the agency manages the Missouri River and last month gave the pipeline developer, Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners, permission to finish the project. The company expects to wrap up the work and have oil flowing this month. The two tribes say they weren't properly consulted about the pipeline route, which the government disputes. They also maintain their treaty rights were violated when the government changed its mind about conducting further environmental studies of the Lake Oahe crossing after President Donald Trump took office in January. "This fight against the Dakota Access pipeline has been the tip of the spear of a powerful global movement calling for the United States government and Donald Trump to respect indigenous nations and people in our right to water, land, sovereignty, and culture," said Dallas Goldtooth, an organizer with the Indigenous Environmental Network. ——— Follow Blake Nicholson on Twitter at: https://twitter.com/NicholsonBlake  Shares                  American Indians to protest Trump, pipeline in Washington   Fact-checking Trump on Guantanamo Bay detainees   WikiLeaks publishes CIA trove alleging wide scale hacking   Supreme Court justice family apologizes to family of slave   Wedding ring attached to beads thrown in Fat Tuesday parade   Texas grandpa builds amusement park in backyard   Pregnant woman re-enacts giraffe livestream wearing mask   These mushers brave ice, snow and freezing temps to compete in Alaska’s Iditarod dogsled race   Journalist throws up during plane proposal to girlfriend   Young couple finds it 'freeing' to travel the country in a converted van   Dobby the newborn giraffe gets plasma treatment to bolster immune system   Avalanche strikes French ski resort of Tignes; no fatalities   Iraqi forces storm Mosul government complex, hoist flag   George Michael died of natural causes, coroner says   Life in limbo: Diary of a Syrian mom affected by travel ban   Afghan family with visas released after days of detention   How Trump's new travel ban compares with its predecessor   'The Bachelor': Nick says bye-bye to next season's Bachelorette   Alec Baldwin says his days of playing Donald Trump are numbered   Exxon announces expansion program, Trump takes credit   Gay conversion therapy advocates heartened by Republican electoral victories   Reporter's notebook: My 24 hours locked inside a metabolic chamber   Some real-world twin tips for Amal Clooney, Beyonce   Bruno Mars, Justin Timberlake shine at iHeartRadio Awards

American Indians from across the country are bringing their frustrations with the Trump administration and its approval of the Dakota Access oil pipeline to the nation's capital Tuesday, kicking off four days of activities that will culminate in a march on the White House.

Tribal members and supporters plan to camp each day on the National Mall, with teepees, a ceremonial fire, cultural workshops and speakers. Native American leaders also plan to lobby lawmakers to protect tribal rights.

"We are calling on all our Native relatives and allies to rise with us," said Dave Archambault, the chairman of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe. "We must march against injustice. Native nations cannot continue to be pushed aside to benefit corporate interests and government whim."

On Friday, the 2-mile "Native Nations March on DC" will lead participants from the Army Corps of Engineers office to a rally near the White House. Organizers said they expect thousands of people to take part.

The White House referred a request for comment to the Interior Department. That department referred the inquiry to the Corps, which did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday.

The protest comes as a federal judge in Washington weighs a request by the Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Sioux tribes to halt construction of the last section of the Dakota Access pipeline pending the outcomes of their lawsuit to stop the project. The tribes say that section of the pipeline, which will pass under Lake Oahe, a large Missouri River reservoir, will threaten their water supply, sacred sites and religious rights. The judge is expected to rule this week.

The march Friday will begin at the Army Corps of Engineers office because the agency manages the Missouri River and last month gave the pipeline developer, Texas-based Energy Transfer Partners, permission to finish the project. The company expects to wrap up the work and have oil flowing this month.

The two tribes say they weren't properly consulted about the pipeline route, which the government disputes. They also maintain their treaty rights were violated when the government changed its mind about conducting further environmental studies of the Lake Oahe crossing after President Donald Trump took office in January.

"This fight against the Dakota Access pipeline has been the tip of the spear of a powerful global movement calling for the United States government and Donald Trump to respect indigenous nations and people in our right to water, land, sovereignty, and culture," said Dallas Goldtooth, an organizer with the Indigenous Environmental Network.

———

Follow Blake Nicholson on Twitter at: https://twitter.com/NicholsonBlake