Baldwin to Retire Trump Impression Because of White House ‘Maliciousness’
Baldwin to Retire Trump Impression Because of White House ‘Maliciousness’
Just tried watching Saturday Night Live – unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can’t get any worse. Sad — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016

As Alec Baldwin told Extra’s Mario Lopez, “I think the maliciousness of this White House has people very worried, which is why I’m not going to do it much longer, that whole impersonation. I don’t know how much more people can take it.”

Baldwin has reinvigorated his comedy career with a spot-on impersonation of President Trump on Saturday Night Live. In less than six months, Baldwin has made 10 guest appearances on SNL as Donald Trump. He hosted the show for a record-breaking 17th time in February, and of course, did the impersonation in a People’s Court parody.

The imitation has led to a spike in viewership for the perennial sketch comedy series, but it’s also drawn the online ire of the former proprietor of Trump Vodka.

Just tried watching Saturday Night Live – unwatchable! Totally biased, not funny and the Baldwin impersonation just can’t get any worse. Sad — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2016





And it’s this anger that has led Baldwin to give up on aping Trump. He told Lopez, “Trump just overwhelmingly lacks any sportsmanship; he remains bitter and angry, and you just want to look at him and go, ‘You won!’”

There’s been talk about the actor standing in for Trump during the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner, since the president is declining attendance. Lopez asked Baldwin if he’d be up for the gig, but the prospect doesn’t sound hopeful: “I don’t think that’s going to happen … I think a lot of people are thinking if Trump himself doesn’t come and face the music as it were … I don’t know what kind of program they’re going to have. If they wanted me to do it, I would probably do it, but I’m not quite sure they do.”

Saturday Night Live airs Saturdays at 11:35 p.m. on NBC. Watch clips and full episodes of SNL for free on Yahoo View.

WATCH: Alec Baldwin’s Best on ‘SNL’:

Tell us what you think! Do you think it’s time for Baldwin to hang up the golden wig? Or should he appear at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner as one last hurrah? Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram or leave your comments below.