Where Is The 'Phenomenal' Tax Plan President Trump Promised?
Where Is The 'Phenomenal' Tax Plan President Trump Promised?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Tony Nitti       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Time's up. On February 9th, President Donald Trump made the following promise: "We're going to be announcing something over the next, I would say, two or three weeks that will be phenomenal in terms of tax." Now, say what you will about Trump's presidency, but to date, he's followed through on his promises. He said we'll have a wall? We're getting a wall. He said he'd keep terrorists out? He's enacted sweeping -- and potentially unconstitutional -- immigration reform. Twice. He said he'd drain the swamp? He...well, two out of three ain't bad. But where's the tax plan? Drastic individual and business tax cuts were a huge part of Trump successful campaign, but in the first 50 days of his presidency, he has produced nothing. What's the holdup? U.S. President Donald Trump walks towards Marine One on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Friday, March 3, 2017. Trump is traveling to Florida to participate in a tour of Saint Andrew Catholic School and attend the RNC Spring Retreat dinner. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg Tax reform is always replete with roadblocks. Deficit hawks count the cuts, and want them to be offset by revenue raisers, lest we get deeper into debt. Lobbyists fight to the death to keep the most seemingly inconsequential provision as part of the law. And members of Congress will hijack legislation to insert a provision that benefits their constituents. This time, however, was supposed to be different. With Republicans controlling the White House, House and Senate -- and a general framework for reform agreed upon by the President and leading GOP tax writers -- an overhaul of the tax law was viewed as a near certainty. But even if that were too much to ask, it appeared cutting the corporate tax rate would be a fait accompli; after all, many lawmakers from both parties believe that the current 35% corporate tax rate is far too high. Suddenly, however, corporate reform threatens to prove the largest hurdle to major tax changes. As part of their 2016 Blueprint for Tax Reform, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee Kevin Brady and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan proposed a fundamental shift in the way we tax corporations, moving away from a direct tax on income and towards what resembles -- but is not quite -- a value-added tax akin to those common to European countries. The corporate rate would be dropped from 35% to 20%, but that is the mere footnote; the headline is that the tax would be "adjusted" at the border, with goods sold outside the U.S. not subject to the 20% tax, but with the cost of imported goods no longer being deductible to U.S. corporations. The idea behind the shift is twofold: by taxing imports and not exports, in theory we would bring jobs back to the U.S. and incentivize production, and perhaps much more importantly, because we currently operate at a trade deficit, meaning imports exceed exports, the provision would raise over $1 trillion in tax revenue over the next decade, which could be used to pay for tax cuts and appease bean counters. For (much) more detail on the border adjustment tax, read here . This shift in corporate taxation has undergone an interesting evolution, from largely-ignored to highly controversial. It has been a part of the Brady/Ryan proposal for over a year, and has been much discussed in certain corners of the internet since it first appeared in print, but didn't make national news until President Trump pointed towards border adjustment as a tool he could use to make Mexico  "pay for the wall." From that moment on, the "destination-based cash-flow tax" has taken on a life of its own: earning its own hashtag on twitter, creating a split within the GOP, and causing no shortage of consternation among leading importers. And while clear battle lines have been drawn -- Brady and Ryan love it/Orrin Hatch doesn't care for it....exporters love it/importers and the Koch brothers hate it -- the one thing we is the President's position on the provision. When first asked for his feelings by the Wall Street Journal last month, he replied that he "didn't love it," and that he favored something more simple. A few days later, however, he pivoted, saying "all options are being considered." Then came the Mexico example. During his speech to Congress last week, there was hope that he would either fully endorse or disavow the border adjustment tax and provide some certainty, but instead, he accentuated the the tax is meant to cure -- a current tax system that favors imports over exports and encourages abusive structuring -- without specifically identifying the border adjustment tax as the cure. As a result, we are left with no clearer a picture of whether the White House stands on the tax, and without it, it's simply impossible for tax reform to move forward. Should Trump fail to be won over by Brady and Ryan, a Plan B would need to be formulated. While campaigning for president, Trump proposed dropping the corporate rate all the way to 15% percent, WITHOUT any offsetting revenue raisers, which when added to his other proposals, would increase the deficit by over $4 trillion over the next decade, a number unlikely to be palatable to all Democrats and even some Republicans. Without a firm view of the role, if any, a border adjustment tax would play in future tax legislation, it's simply impossible to move forward. As you may have read on your Facebook timeline, Obamacare either 1) needs to be preserved at all costs, or 2) needs to be abolished at all costs. The GOP, of course, believes the latter, and have set repeal as their priority; one that trumps even tax reform. This ordering of Obamacare repeal before an overhaul of the tax Code is more than ideological; it is also procedural.  Republicans would prefer to use the reconciliation process for both pieces of legislation, because this streamlined process requires a simply majority (51 votes) in the Senate, where Republicans currently hold 54 seats, while also avoiding Senate filibuster. The reconciliation process, however, is attached to the passing of a budget, and the FY 2017 budget is earmarked for Obamacare repeal. That means that President Trump will need to pass a FY 2018 budget and use budget's reconciliation process for tax reform. As a result, there is a clear pecking order: Obamacare repeal first, then tax reform. And as you may have noticed, ripping Obamacare from the law has proven far more difficult than the GOP would have had you believe over the last eight years. The longer the process drags on, the later it pushes back meaningful tax reform. Of course, we're not asking for at this moment; we'd settle for merely getting our hands on a piece of proposed legislation, something that President Trump promised nearly one month ago. It's time to deliver. follow along on twitter @nittiaj onot Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Time's up.

On February 9th, President Donald Trump made the following promise:

"We're going to be announcing something over the next, I would say, two or three weeks that will be phenomenal in terms of tax."

Now, say what you will about Trump's presidency, but to date, he's followed through on his promises. He said we'll have a wall? We're getting a wall. He said he'd keep terrorists out? He's enacted sweeping -- and potentially unconstitutional -- immigration reform. Twice. He said he'd drain the swamp? He...well, two out of three ain't bad.

But where's the tax plan? Drastic individual and business tax cuts were a huge part of Trump successful campaign, but in the first 50 days of his presidency, he has produced nothing.

What's the holdup?

Border Adjustment Tax

Tax reform is always replete with roadblocks. Deficit hawks count the cuts, and want them to be offset by revenue raisers, lest we get deeper into debt. Lobbyists fight to the death to keep the most seemingly inconsequential provision as part of the law. And members of Congress will hijack legislation to insert a provision that benefits their constituents.

This time, however, was supposed to be different. With Republicans controlling the White House, House and Senate -- and a general framework for reform agreed upon by the President and leading GOP tax writers -- an overhaul of the tax law was viewed as a near certainty. But even if that were too much to ask, it appeared cutting the corporate tax rate would be a fait accompli; after all, many lawmakers from both parties believe that the current 35% corporate tax rate is far too high.

Suddenly, however, corporate reform threatens to prove the largest hurdle to major tax changes. As part of their 2016 Blueprint for Tax Reform, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee Kevin Brady and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan proposed a fundamental shift in the way we tax corporations, moving away from a direct tax on income and towards what resembles -- but is not quite -- a value-added tax akin to those common to European countries. The corporate rate would be dropped from 35% to 20%, but that is the mere footnote; the headline is that the tax would be "adjusted" at the border, with goods sold outside the U.S. not subject to the 20% tax, but with the cost of imported goods no longer being deductible to U.S. corporations. The idea behind the shift is twofold: by taxing imports and not exports, in theory we would bring jobs back to the U.S. and incentivize production, and perhaps much more importantly, because we currently operate at a trade deficit, meaning imports exceed exports, the provision would raise over $1 trillion in tax revenue over the next decade, which could be used to pay for tax cuts and appease bean counters. For (much) more detail on the border adjustment tax, read here.

This shift in corporate taxation has undergone an interesting evolution, from largely-ignored to highly controversial. It has been a part of the Brady/Ryan proposal for over a year, and has been much discussed in certain corners of the internet since it first appeared in print, but didn't make national news until President Trump pointed towards border adjustment as a tool he could use to make Mexico "pay for the wall."

From that moment on, the "destination-based cash-flow tax" has taken on a life of its own: earning its own hashtag on twitter, creating a split within the GOP, and causing no shortage of consternation among leading importers.

And while clear battle lines have been drawn -- Brady and Ryan love it/Orrin Hatch doesn't care for it....exporters love it/importers and the Koch brothers hate it -- the one thing we don't know is the President's position on the provision. When first asked for his feelings by the Wall Street Journal last month, he replied that he "didn't love it," and that he favored something more simple. A few days later, however, he pivoted, saying "all options are being considered." Then came the Mexico example. During his speech to Congress last week, there was hope that he would either fully endorse or disavow the border adjustment tax and provide some certainty, but instead, he accentuated the symptoms the tax is meant to cure -- a current tax system that favors imports over exports and encourages abusive structuring -- without specifically identifying the border adjustment tax as the cure. As a result, we are left with no clearer a picture of whether the White House stands on the tax, and without it, it's simply impossible for tax reform to move forward.

Should Trump fail to be won over by Brady and Ryan, a Plan B would need to be formulated. While campaigning for president, Trump proposed dropping the corporate rate all the way to 15% percent, WITHOUT any offsetting revenue raisers, which when added to his other proposals, would increase the deficit by over $4 trillion over the next decade, a number unlikely to be palatable to all Democrats and even some Republicans.

Without a firm view of the role, if any, a border adjustment tax would play in future tax legislation, it's simply impossible to move forward.

Obamacare Repeal

As you may have read on your Facebook timeline, Obamacare either 1) needs to be preserved at all costs, or 2) needs to be abolished at all costs. The GOP, of course, believes the latter, and have set repeal as their priority; one that trumps even tax reform.

This ordering of Obamacare repeal before an overhaul of the tax Code is more than ideological; it is also procedural. Republicans would prefer to use the reconciliation process for both pieces of legislation, because this streamlined process requires a simply majority (51 votes) in the Senate, where Republicans currently hold 54 seats, while also avoiding Senate filibuster.

The reconciliation process, however, is attached to the passing of a budget, and the FY 2017 budget is earmarked for Obamacare repeal. That means that President Trump will need to pass a FY 2018 budget and use that budget's reconciliation process for tax reform.

As a result, there is a clear pecking order: Obamacare repeal first, then tax reform. And as you may have noticed, ripping Obamacare from the law has proven far more difficult than the GOP would have had you believe over the last eight years. The longer the process drags on, the later it pushes back meaningful tax reform.

Of course, we're not asking for final reform at this moment; we'd settle for merely getting our hands on a piece of proposed legislation, something that President Trump promised nearly one month ago.

It's time to deliver.

follow along on twitter @nittiaj

onot