This new cookie is causing some seriously weird side effects
This new cookie is causing some seriously weird side effects
It turns out one unwanted side-effect of the limited edition biscuit with pink marshmallow filling is that it’s turning people’s poop... Well, pink. @Oreo the peeps oreos made my poop bright pink  My roommate ate a whole pack of oreo Peeps and left a pink stain in the toilet.  @Oreo is this normal after eating peeps Oreos? pic.twitter.com/QowLK0Wc3S  According to Dr. Ian Lustbader, a gastroenterologist and clinical associate professor of medicine at New York University's Langone Medical Center in New York, the food dye used in the Oreos isn’t broken down by the body during digestion. He told that it takes more than just one or two of the cookies to have this effect – and the sugar and fat contents of having “a bunch” of the cookies is probably more unhealthy that the food dye. An Oreo spokeswoman said: The Oreo Peep limited-edition sandwich cookies contain a bright pink food coloring, FD&C Red Number 3. We use this ingredient in the product consistent with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations. Certain foods can temporarily color the tongue and inside of the mouth. This is common with brightly colored products such as ice pops, gelatins and drink mixes, as well as with certain fruits and vegetables, including beets and cranberries. Such foods can also temporarily color stool.                     Keep scrolling for next article

Peeps-flavoured Oreos are turning people’s poop pink. No, it’s not a tongue twister. It’s really happening,

It turns out one unwanted side-effect of the limited edition biscuit with pink marshmallow filling is that it’s turning people’s poop... Well, pink.

@Oreo the peeps oreos made my poop bright pink — Ellie Won (@Elliegreentea) February 28, 2017

My roommate ate a whole pack of oreo Peeps and left a pink stain in the toilet. — ElleLeven (@Barbeydahl) February 23, 2017

And their tongues:

@Oreo is this normal after eating peeps Oreos? pic.twitter.com/QowLK0Wc3S — Richard Traub (@TraubCommaRich) March 1, 2017

According to Dr. Ian Lustbader, a gastroenterologist and clinical associate professor of medicine at New York University's Langone Medical Center in New York, the food dye used in the Oreos isn’t broken down by the body during digestion.

He told Live Science that it takes more than just one or two of the cookies to have this effect – and the sugar and fat contents of having “a bunch” of the cookies is probably more unhealthy that the food dye.

An Oreo spokeswoman said:

The Oreo Peep limited-edition sandwich cookies contain a bright pink food coloring, FD&C Red Number 3. We use this ingredient in the product consistent with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations. Certain foods can temporarily color the tongue and inside of the mouth. This is common with brightly colored products such as ice pops, gelatins and drink mixes, as well as with certain fruits and vegetables, including beets and cranberries. Such foods can also temporarily color stool.

2017 continues to be one of the weirdest years.

More: The biscuit map of Great Britain