New threats made against US Jewish centers
New threats made to US Jewish centers 
New threats made against US Jewish centers Updated 1856 GMT (0256 HKT) March 7, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights Anonymous threats are the latest in a spate that began in January String of recent incidents includes vandalism targeting Jewish cemeteries A new wave of bomb threats was received by Jewish community centers and Anti-Defamation League offices Tuesday in Atlanta, Boston, New York, Washington, Maryland, Milwaukee, Oregon and other American cities and states. Senators warn of accelerating threats 'Time for action' We just received multiple #bombthreats at ADL offices. Law enforcement personnel are responding. More details to come. Our campus received a phone threat this AM. Everyone is safe and all is ok. We were in shelter in place. Police just gave all clear. CNN's David Shortell, Deanna Hackney and Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report.

Story highlights Anonymous threats are the latest in a spate that began in January

String of recent incidents includes vandalism targeting Jewish cemeteries

(CNN) A new wave of bomb threats was received by Jewish community centers and Anti-Defamation League offices Tuesday in Atlanta, Boston, New York, Washington, Maryland, Milwaukee, Oregon and other American cities and states.

The threats -- made via phone and email -- are among more than 100 across the US and Canada since early January, according to the Anti-Defamation League.

There also have been acts of vandalism at Jewish cemeteries and several incidents in Miami where swastikas were etched into cars in recent weeks in what authorities are calling a disturbing pattern of anti-Semitism.

"This is not 'normal,'" Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO of the Anti-Defamation League said in a statement, "We will not be deterred or intimidated. These threats (are) in addition to threats to at least six JCCs and three day schools in Oregon, Wisconsin, Illinois, New York, Florida, Maryland and Toronto."

In Washington, a letter signed by all 100 US senators on Tuesday urged the Trump administration to immediately respond to the anonymous bomb threats made against Jewish community centers, Jewish day schools, and synagogues across the nation.

Read More