Alicia Keys Says She Loves Gwen Stefani More Than Blake Shelton Does: Watch
Alicia Keys Says She Loves Gwen Stefani More Than Blake Shelton Does: Watch 
Alicia Keys Says She Loves Gwen Stefani More Than Blake Shelton Does: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Alicia Keys is really in it to win it as aÂ coach onÂ . After promoting the reality competition onÂ Â last week, the singer appeared on NBC'sÂ Â Tuesday (Mar. 7) to give morning viewers a taste of her fighting spirit. While sitting downÂ with 's co-anchorsÂ Willie Geist and Carson Daly, the singer --Â who was appropriately displayed on screen with the headline "This Girl Is Still On Fire" -- discussed motherhood, her singing career, and how they have influenced her judging role onÂ . Both hosts were intrigued by the "girl crush" between Keys and her fellow coach, Gwen Stefani ,Â even comparing their connection to the bromance of Blake Shelton and Adam Levine . But perhaps the most notable thing Keys said about her relationship with her fellow female coach is that it's even stronger than the one Stefani has with Shelton.  With a laugh and grin from ear to ear, the "In Common" songstress joked "we love each other more than Blake and Gwen love each other, straight up!" Shelton and Stefani -- who have been dating for about 16Â months -- have been a guilty pleasure for viewers, as their fairytaleÂ romance is on full display each episode, especially this season.Â Keys described her working chemistry with Gwen as "amazing" due to their longÂ friendship. The singer had nothing but positive things to say about her experience as a judge calling it "fun" and boasting about the love that all the coaches share for one another.Â Â Â Watch the interview below:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Alicia Keys is really in it to win it as aÂ coach onÂ The Voice. After promoting the reality competition onÂ The Tonight Show With Jimmy FallonÂ last week, the singer appeared on NBC'sÂ The Today ShowÂ Tuesday (Mar. 7) to give morning viewers a taste of her fighting spirit.

While sitting downÂ with Today's co-anchorsÂ Willie Geist and Carson Daly, the singer --Â who was appropriately displayed on screen with the headline "This Girl Is Still On Fire" -- discussed motherhood, her singing career, and how they have influenced her judging role onÂ The Voice. Both hosts were intrigued by the "girl crush" between Keys and her fellow coach, Gwen Stefani,Â even comparing their connection to the bromance of Blake Shelton and Adam Levine. But perhaps the most notable thing Keys said about her relationship with her fellow female coach is that it's even stronger than the one Stefani has with Shelton.

With a laugh and grin from ear to ear, the "In Common" songstress joked "we love each other more than Blake and Gwen love each other, straight up!" Shelton and Stefani -- who have been dating for about 16Â months -- have been a guilty pleasure for viewers, as their fairytaleÂ romance is on full display each episode, especially this season.Â

Keys described her working chemistry with Gwen as "amazing" due to their longÂ friendship. The singer had nothing but positive things to say about her experience as a judge calling it "fun" and boasting about the love that all the coaches share for one another.Â Â Â

Watch the interview below: