See Darren Criss menace Grant Gustin and Melissa Benoist in 'The Flash' musical episode
See Darren Criss menace Grant Gustin and Melissa Benoist in 'The Flash' musical episode
alums Grant Gustin and Melissa Benoist will reunite with their former co-star Darren Criss in 's upcoming musical crossover with , and has an exclusive first look at the trio in action. Gustin doesn't seem particularly thrilled to see his fellow Warbler in the sneak peek image above — but that's probably because Criss is playing the villainous Music Meister — a metahuman whose powers cause people to spontaneously erupt into song and dance when they hear his voice. The CW has also released additional photos and the first teaser trailer from the episode, titled "Duet," which will premiere on March 21. Chris Wood as Mon-El, Melissa Benoist as Kara/Supergirl and David Harewood as Hank Henshaw Image:  Katie Yu/The CW Carlos Valdes as Cisco Ramon, Grant Gustin as Barry Allen, Candice Patton as Iris West, Tom Cavanagh as Harrison Wells, Chris Wood as Mon-El, Melissa Benoist as Kara/Supergirl, Danielle Panabaker as Caitlin Snow, and David Harewood as Hank Henshaw Image:  Katie Yu/The CW Darren Criss as Music Meister and Jeremy Jordan as Winn Schott Image:  Jack Rowand/The CW Grant Gustin as Barry Allen and Melissa Benoist as Kara Image:  Jack Rowand/The CW Grant Gustin as Barry Allen and Melissa Benoist as Kara Image:  Jack Rowand/The CW Candice Patton as Iris West, Victor Garber as Professor Martin Stein and Jesse L. Martin as Detective Joe West Image:  Jack Rowand/The CW The action begins when Music Meister (Criss) attacks Supergirl and puts her in a coma in the March 20 installment of her eponymous show, prompting Mon-El (Chris Wood) and Hank Henshaw (David Harewood) to arrive on Earth-1 for help from Team Flash. However, the Music Meister surprises The Flash and puts him in a similar coma, one that Team Flash can’t cure. Kara and Barry wake up without their powers in an alternate reality where life is like a musical and the only way to escape is by following the script, complete with singing and dancing, to the end. The musical installment will feature a combination of original songs and covers, including one penned by lyricists Benj Pasek and Justin Paul — who wrote the Oscar-winning song "City of Stars" — titled "Runnin' Home to You." The episode will also feature a track written by star Rachel Bloom and Tom Root, titled “Superfriends.” and 's musical crossover, "Duets," airs Tuesday, March 21 at 8 p.m. on The CW. WATCH: The Stars of 'Supergirl' Sing Season 1 at SDCC

Mashable Debuts exclusively premieres music, videos, artwork, trailers and more. You saw it here first!

Glee alums Grant Gustin and Melissa Benoist will reunite with their former co-star Darren Criss in The Flash's upcoming musical crossover with Supergirl, and Mashable has an exclusive first look at the trio in action.

Gustin doesn't seem particularly thrilled to see his fellow Warbler in the sneak peek image above — but that's probably because Criss is playing the villainous Music Meister — a metahuman whose powers cause people to spontaneously erupt into song and dance when they hear his voice.

The CW has also released additional photos and the first teaser trailer from the episode, titled "Duet," which will premiere on March 21.

Chris Wood as Mon-El, Melissa Benoist as Kara/Supergirl and David Harewood as Hank Henshaw Image: Katie Yu/The CW

Carlos Valdes as Cisco Ramon, Grant Gustin as Barry Allen, Candice Patton as Iris West, Tom Cavanagh as Harrison Wells, Chris Wood as Mon-El, Melissa Benoist as Kara/Supergirl, Danielle Panabaker as Caitlin Snow, and David Harewood as Hank Henshaw Image: Katie Yu/The CW

Darren Criss as Music Meister and Jeremy Jordan as Winn Schott Image: Jack Rowand/The CW

Grant Gustin as Barry Allen and Melissa Benoist as Kara Image: Jack Rowand/The CW

Grant Gustin as Barry Allen and Melissa Benoist as Kara Image: Jack Rowand/The CW

Candice Patton as Iris West, Victor Garber as Professor Martin Stein and Jesse L. Martin as Detective Joe West Image: Jack Rowand/The CW

The action begins when Music Meister (Criss) attacks Supergirl and puts her in a coma in the March 20 installment of her eponymous show, prompting Mon-El (Chris Wood) and Hank Henshaw (David Harewood) to arrive on Earth-1 for help from Team Flash. However, the Music Meister surprises The Flash and puts him in a similar coma, one that Team Flash can’t cure. Kara and Barry wake up without their powers in an alternate reality where life is like a musical and the only way to escape is by following the script, complete with singing and dancing, to the end.

The musical installment will feature a combination of original songs and covers, including one penned by La La Land lyricists Benj Pasek and Justin Paul — who wrote the Oscar-winning song "City of Stars" — titled "Runnin' Home to You."

The episode will also feature a track written by Crazy Ex-Girlfriend star Rachel Bloom and Tom Root, titled “Superfriends.”

The Flash and Supergirl's musical crossover, "Duets," airs Tuesday, March 21 at 8 p.m. on The CW.