Chinese girl takes sole care of grandma and great-grandma
Little girl becomes the sole carer of her grandma and great-grandma


We all known that how strong the bond between a mother and a daughter is, and not to mention one that crosses generations and beyond.

Wang Anna, a five-year-old girl, is living in a faraway mountain in Zunyi city of south-west China, with her long-term ill grandmother and a 92-year-old great grandmother.

A reporter visited the young girl and discovered the touching story of Anna and her grandmas.

Young Anna cooked meals and fed her 92-year-old great grandmother every day and night

Anna's grandmother has septic arthritis that limits her daily activities such as walking

The five-year-old Anna has to stand on a stool to cook rice and vegetables to her grandmas

When Anna was three-months old, her father was sentenced to jail, leaving her mother to stay with the in-laws.

But her mother remarried after giving birth to Anna, leaving the young and the old together.

She then became the pillar of the family, taking up responsibility to cook, clean and take care of the two elderly.

Taking care of two grandmothers is not an easy task, Anna wakes up early in the morning every day to prepare meals for the grandmas.

Grandmother and great-grandmother are Anna's only family members she has now

Unconditional love: Five-year-old Anna carries her 92-year-old great grandmother to toilet

Anna carries her own basket to her neighbour's farm and pick fresh vegetables back home

She does all the housework personally, from making meals to cleaning the house

The petite Anna stands on a stool, stretching as far as she could to reach the stove and fry the vegetables.

Anna's grandmother has a long-term septic arthritis, also known as infectious arthritis, that causes pain to any movement of the affected joints.

Both her grandmother and great grandmother are almost bedridden, with very limited activity.

The young Anna did not complain tried her best to take them to toilet or a short walk near the house.

Anna's father went to jail when she was only three months old and her mother left her after she is born

She did not complain but to wish both her grandmother and great grandmother 'good health'

She also did all the housework personally - from dusting the floor to clearing the rubbish.

The 'love triangle' story has touched the neighbours.

They take Anna to their farm and pick fresh vegetables whenever she is out of food.

She smiled and told the reporter that she wants to take care of them every day and 'wish them good health.'