Junior Hockey League Player Climbs over Glass to Fight Fans
Junior Hockey League Player Climbs over Glass to Fight Fans
Junior hockey in New Brunswick is out of control https://t.co/qgqPaofEH3 A Canadian junior league hockey playoff game between the Southern Sting and Grand Lake Moose took an ugly turn when a Moose player climbed into the stands and brawled with fans. According to a Canadian Press report, via CTV News , police restored order at the Lord Beaverbrook Rink in Saint John, New Brunswick. No charges were filed. Jonathan Tremblay, a 14-year-old in attendance who witnessed the incident, told CBC News' Gail Harding it started when fans taunted a Grand Lake player in the penalty box. The player responded by hitting someone on the head with his stick. "And one of the fans dumped beer on top of him," Tremblay said. "Then he decided he was just going to jump the boards and start fighting." The team also asked for a more definitive look of the scrum: Who knew a sport that encourages fighting could potentially lead to a dangerous environment ripe with fighting? [ Gino Hard , h/t For The Win ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

A Canadian junior league hockey playoff game between the Southern Sting and Grand Lake Moose took an ugly turn when a Moose player climbed into the stands and brawled with fans.

According to a Canadian Press report, via CTV News, police restored order at the Lord Beaverbrook Rink in Saint John, New Brunswick. No charges were filed.

Jonathan Tremblay, a 14-year-old in attendance who witnessed the incident, told CBC News' Gail Harding it started when fans taunted a Grand Lake player in the penalty box. The player responded by hitting someone on the head with his stick.

"And one of the fans dumped beer on top of him," Tremblay said. "Then he decided he was just going to jump the boards and start fighting."

The Sting, who won Saturday's game to advance to the New Brunswick Junior Hockey League finals, tried to deflect attention away from the incident in a Facebook post:

The team also asked for a more definitive look of the scrum:

Who knew a sport that encourages fighting could potentially lead to a dangerous environment ripe with fighting?

[Gino Hard, h/t For The Win]