Channeling Reagan, Conservatives Rip Paul Ryan-Backed Obamacare Replacement
Channeling Reagan, Conservatives Rip Paul Ryan-Backed Obamacare Replacement
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Japsen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. In the latest attack from the right, conservatives who want a full repeal of the Affordable Care Act are furious with the Republican-led House legislation introduced this week to repeal and replace Obamacare. Known as the American Health Care Act, the House GOP proposal would roll back the ACA’s expansion of Medicaid benefits and offer tax credits for Americans to purchase coverage on the open market. The tax credits would be offered in place of the subsidies low-income Americans have had for the last four years buying coverage known as Obamacare on public exchanges. But conservatives aren’t buying into it. Donald Trump shakes hands with House Speaker Paul Ryan as Vice President Mike Pence applauds during a joint session of Congress in Washington, D.C., Feb. 28, 2017. (Photo: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg "In many ways, the House Republican proposal released last night not only accepts the flawed progressive premises of Obamacare, but expands upon them,” Heritage Action for America CEO Michael Needham said Tuesday in a statement. “Ronald Reagan once said, 'Government's view of the economy could be summed up in a few short phrases: ” Conservative House Republicans in the “Freedom Caucus” and groups pushing for a “full repeal of the ACA” are opposed to new tax credits they say would essentially be a new entitlement that could end up costing nearly as much as, if not more than, the subsidies of Obamacare. Those opposed to tax credits are lining up against the House legislation backed by Republican speaker Paul Ryan and Donald Trump, who seemed to side with tax credits rather than a tax deduction to lower income. “We should help Americans purchase their own coverage, through the use of tax credits,” Trump told Congress in his speech last week to a joint session of Congress. The Trump White House, dogged by allegations campaign workers may have colluded with Russia to influence the presidential election, has yet to offer a health plan. Trump has said that would come by the end of March. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

In the latest attack from the right, conservatives who want a full repeal of the Affordable Care Act are furious with the Republican-led House legislation introduced this week to repeal and replace Obamacare.

Known as the American Health Care Act, the House GOP proposal would roll back the ACA’s expansion of Medicaid benefits and offer tax credits for Americans to purchase coverage on the open market. The tax credits would be offered in place of the subsidies low-income Americans have had for the last four years buying coverage known as Obamacare on public exchanges.

But conservatives aren’t buying into it.

"In many ways, the House Republican proposal released last night not only accepts the flawed progressive premises of Obamacare, but expands upon them,” Heritage Action for America CEO Michael Needham said Tuesday in a statement. “Ronald Reagan once said, 'Government's view of the economy could be summed up in a few short phrases: If it moves, tax it. If it keeps moving, regulate it. And if it stops moving, subsidize it.' The AHCA does all three. ”

Conservative House Republicans in the “Freedom Caucus” and groups pushing for a “full repeal of the ACA” are opposed to new tax credits they say would essentially be a new entitlement that could end up costing nearly as much as, if not more than, the subsidies of Obamacare.

Those opposed to tax credits are lining up against the House legislation backed by Republican speaker Paul Ryan and Donald Trump, who seemed to side with tax credits rather than a tax deduction to lower income. “We should help Americans purchase their own coverage, through the use of tax credits,” Trump told Congress in his speech last week to a joint session of Congress.

The Trump White House, dogged by allegations campaign workers may have colluded with Russia to influence the presidential election, has yet to offer a health plan. Trump has said that would come by the end of March.