Uber Now 'Actively Looking' For New COO To Quell Anger
Uber Now 'Actively Looking' For New COO To Quell Anger
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Brian Solomon       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. TOBIAS HASE/AFP/Getty Images Travis Kalanick, cofounder and CEO of Uber (TOBIAS HASE/AFP/Getty Images) Last week, Uber CEO Travis Kalanick admitted that he needed leadership help . Now he's searching for it. On Tuesday, Kalanick told employees "that we're actively looking for a Chief Operating Officer: a peer who can partner with me to write the next chapter in our journey." Finding a COO is an attempt by Uber to mollify critics who have put pressure on the company in light of a string of bad internal news emerging from what some consider to be a toxic organizational culture. Stories of sexism and harassment shared by ex-Uber employees like Susan Fowler have gotten the most attention, but Uber has been a mess in 2017. The startup bungled its much heralded self-driving car roll out in San Francisco and was recently sued by Google's Waymo for allegedly using stolen IP . Uber also took heat for its slow response to President Trump's immigration ban, and has endured multiple senior departures in recent weeks. Kalanick, 40, said last week that he needed to “fundamentally change as a leader and grow up.” The addition of a COO, depending on the choice, would put that person more directly involved with many of the decisions about the business and culture, but Kalanick still intends to remain in charge despite calls for him to step down. It is widely expected that Uber will try to find someone for the COO job with both experience and reputation, but ideally the new hire would also add some diversity to Uber's mostly white and male executive ranks. One internal option who doesn't seem to be in the running is Uber's president of ridesharing, Jeff Jones. Uber hired Jones away from Target to run "operations, marketing and customer support globally." That sounds like a COO in all but name, and Kalanick described him as such in an interview with last year: : [Jeff Jones] is pretty smart and not afraid to say what he thinks, which is really important.  : What's he going to do for the business?  : He's going to run it. President of Ridesharing. That's the business, right? Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

TOBIAS HASE/AFP/Getty Images

Last week, Uber CEO Travis Kalanick admitted that he needed leadership help. Now he's searching for it.

On Tuesday, Kalanick told employees "that we're actively looking for a Chief Operating Officer: a peer who can partner with me to write the next chapter in our journey." Finding a COO is an attempt by Uber to mollify critics who have put pressure on the company in light of a string of bad internal news emerging from what some consider to be a toxic organizational culture.

Stories of sexism and harassment shared by ex-Uber employees like Susan Fowler have gotten the most attention, but Uber has been a mess in 2017. The startup bungled its much heralded self-driving car roll out in San Francisco and was recently sued by Google's Waymo for allegedly using stolen IP. Uber also took heat for its slow response to President Trump's immigration ban, and has endured multiple senior departures in recent weeks.

Kalanick, 40, said last week that he needed to “fundamentally change as a leader and grow up.” The addition of a COO, depending on the choice, would put that person more directly involved with many of the decisions about the business and culture, but Kalanick still intends to remain in charge despite calls for him to step down.

It is widely expected that Uber will try to find someone for the COO job with both experience and reputation, but ideally the new hire would also add some diversity to Uber's mostly white and male executive ranks.

One internal option who doesn't seem to be in the running is Uber's president of ridesharing, Jeff Jones. Uber hired Jones away from Target to run "operations, marketing and customer support globally." That sounds like a COO in all but name, and Kalanick described him as such in an interview with Forbes last year:

Kalanick: [Jeff Jones] is pretty smart and not afraid to say what he thinks, which is really important.

Forbes: What's he going to do for the business?

Kalanick: He's going to run it. President of Ridesharing. That's the business, right?

With reporting from Miguel Helft.