Alex Rodriguez Agrees to Contract with Fox Sports to Be Analyst for 2017
Alex Rodriguez Agrees to Contract with Fox Sports to Be Analyst for 2017
Fox Sports hired retired slugger Alex Rodriguez on Tuesday as a full-time MLB analyst for the 2017 season and beyond. It made the news official in a press release on FoxSports.com . A-Rod inked a multiyear deal that will see him serve as a studio analyst in addition to working in the booth for select Fox MLB Saturday games. Rodriguez worked as a guest analyst for Fox during the 2015 World Series and 2016 playoffs. In the press release, Fox Sports "I'm excited to continue working with the Fox Sports family. It'll be great to get back on set with the guys for the regular season and postseason, especially the All-Star Game in my hometown of Miami." Rodriguez played his final MLB game last August before joining the New York Yankees as a special adviser and instructor. The 41-year-old has worked as an adviser for the Yanks during spring training, and he is attached to the organization until Dec. 31, per MLB.com's Bryan Hoch . Although the 14-time All-Star was suspended for the entire 2014 season because of his ties to a Biogenesis clinic, his numbers place him among baseball's all-time greats. The three-time American League MVP and former World Series champion is fourth on the all-time list with 696 home runs and also boasts a career .295 batting average with 3,115 hits, 2,021 runs and 2,086 RBI. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Christopher Pasatieri/Getty Images

Fox Sports hired retired slugger Alex Rodriguez on Tuesday as a full-time MLB analyst for the 2017 season and beyond.

It made the news official in a press release on FoxSports.com. A-Rod inked a multiyear deal that will see him serve as a studio analyst in addition to working in the booth for select Fox MLB Saturday games.

Rodriguez worked as a guest analyst for Fox during the 2015 World Series and 2016 playoffs.

In the press release, Fox Sports President of Production and Executive Producer John Entz commented on the importance of hiring Rodriguez:

Bringing Alex back was a priority of ours and we are fortunate to have him as a key contributor to our baseball coverage. His potential is off the charts and he's been an incredibly quick learner in the world of television. He even understands the complexities of sales units. We are especially grateful to coordinating producer Bardia Shah-Rais, pregame producer Jonathan Kaplan, producer Royce Dickerson and all the FOX Sports staff who not only welcomed Alex but continue to strive to deliver the best pre and post game baseball shows on television.

A-Rod also revealed his thoughts regarding the expanded role: "I'm excited to continue working with the Fox Sports family. It'll be great to get back on set with the guys for the regular season and postseason, especially the All-Star Game in my hometown of Miami."

Rodriguez played his final MLB game last August before joining the New York Yankees as a special adviser and instructor.

The 41-year-old has worked as an adviser for the Yanks during spring training, and he is attached to the organization until Dec. 31, per MLB.com's Bryan Hoch.

Although the 14-time All-Star was suspended for the entire 2014 season because of his ties to a Biogenesis clinic, his numbers place him among baseball's all-time greats.

The three-time American League MVP and former World Series champion is fourth on the all-time list with 696 home runs and also boasts a career .295 batting average with 3,115 hits, 2,021 runs and 2,086 RBI.