Adrian Peterson Reportedly Wants to Play for Raiders, Seahawks
Adrian Peterson Reportedly Wants to Play for Raiders, Seahawks
Free-agent running back Adrian Peterson has reportedly identified a pair of Super Bowl contenders he'd like to play for now that the NFL 's legal tampering period has opened. Citing a source close to Peterson, NFL Network's Stacey Dales reported on Tuesday that the 31-year-old's "desirable landing spots" include the Oakland Raiders and Seattle Seahawks. Dales added that Peterson's camp "will know more later tonight." Peterson has been linked to the Raiders over the past week, with ESPN's Josina Anderson reporting on March 3 that the Silver and Black had caught the attention of the seven-time Pro Bowler. The 31-year-old was also connected to the New England Patriots, but NFL Network's Mike Garafolo reported Tuesday "there  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Tom Dahlin/Getty Images

Free-agent running back Adrian Peterson has reportedly identified a pair of Super Bowl contenders he'd like to play for now that the NFL's legal tampering period has opened.

Citing a source close to Peterson, NFL Network's Stacey Dales reported on Tuesday that the 31-year-old's "desirable landing spots" include the Oakland Raiders and Seattle Seahawks. Dales added that Peterson's camp "will know more later tonight."

Peterson has been linked to the Raiders over the past week, with ESPN's Josina Anderson reporting on March 3 that the Silver and Black had caught the attention of the seven-time Pro Bowler.

The 31-year-old was also connected to the New England Patriots, but NFL Network's Mike Garafolo reported Tuesday "there is nothing going on" between the two sides two days out from the start of the new league year (h/t NFL.com's Chris Wesseling).

Peterson was limited to three appearances last season due to a torn meniscus, but he would fill an obvious need for the Raiders if impending free agent Latavius Murray departs.

Although the Raiders have promising youngsters like DeAndre Washington and Jalen Richard in the fold, they could use a bruising early-down workhorse to eat up chunks of yards behind an offensive line that ranked fourth in the league last season, according to Pro Football Focus' Sam Monson.

The Seahawks, however, aren't as logical of a landing spot at first glance.

Not only would Peterson be running behind a line that ranked dead last in 2016, per Monson, but he would be forced to take on a smaller role with Thomas Rawls and the rising C.J. Prosise locked into Pete Carroll's depth chart.

And while Peterson's days of operating as a three-down machine capable of eclipsing 300 carries are likely over, he has proved in the past he's capable of bouncing back from crippling injuries with aplomb and exceeding expectations.