Steve Aoki Teases 'Unexpected' Collaboration With Fifth Harmony's Lauren Jauregui
Steve Aoki Teases 'Unexpected' Collaboration With Fifth Harmony's Lauren Jauregui
Steve Aoki Teases 'Unexpected' Collaboration With Fifth Harmony's Lauren Jauregui  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Steve Aoki and Lauren Jauregui of Fifth Harmony have something "unexpected" cooking.Â The DJ and producer sat down with 's Chelsea Briggs for a live interview at Aoki's Dim Mak HQ and discussed -- among other things -- his recent collaboration with One Direction 's Louis Tomlinson and something coming up with Jauregui.Â "I think the unexpected collaboration was pretty exciting for a lot of people," Aoki said of working with Tomlinson on the boy bander's first single as a solo artist, "Just Hold On."  "When we're two guys in the studio trying to finish music, you forget about the past and what was happening," continued Aoki. "You're like, let's just work on what's really important." Aoki also revealed that the "Just Hold On" music video will released on Wednesday.Â As for working with Jauregui, Aoki was more tightlipped. He did confirm the two are working together but few little specifics beyond that, adding, "It's going to be something people won't expect."  "We're definitely working on stuff in the studio and I want to nail it," said Aoki. "She's one of my favorite singers, so for me it's really exciting to work with her because I really love her ideas and we're on the same page about so many different things that it's going to be an exciting record that we do together.... Expect the unexpected." Watch the full interview here:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Steve Aoki at The Fader Fort presented by Converse during SXSW on March 13, 2014 in Austin, Texas.

Steve Aoki and Lauren Jauregui of Fifth Harmony have something "unexpected" cooking.Â

The DJ and producer sat down with Billboard's Chelsea Briggs for a live interview at Aoki's Dim Mak HQ and discussed -- among other things -- his recent collaboration with One Direction's Louis Tomlinson and something coming up with Jauregui.Â

"I think the unexpected collaboration was pretty exciting for a lot of people," Aoki said of working with Tomlinson on the boy bander's first single as a solo artist, "Just Hold On."

"When we're two guys in the studio trying to finish music, you forget about the past and what was happening," continued Aoki. "You're like, let's just work on what's really important."

Aoki also revealed that the "Just Hold On" music video will released on Wednesday.Â

As for working with Jauregui, Aoki was more tightlipped. He did confirm the two are working together but few little specifics beyond that, adding, "It's going to be something people won't expect."

"We're definitely working on stuff in the studio and I want to nail it," said Aoki. "She's one of my favorite singers, so for me it's really exciting to work with her because I really love her ideas and we're on the same page about so many different things that it's going to be an exciting record that we do together.... Expect the unexpected."

Watch the full interview here: