LL Bean recalls 3,000 pairs of adjustable snowshoes
LL Bean recalls 3,000 pairs of adjustable snowshoes
Shares                Outdoors retailer L.L. Bean is recalling some snowshoes. The Freeport, Maine-based company says it's pulling 3,000 adjustable snowshoes because the plastic material can weaken and break, posing a falling hazard. The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission announced the recall Tuesday. It says L.L. Bean reported four failures but no one was hurt. The recall involves the L.L. Bean Adventure Adjustable Snowshoes, 25 to 30 inches. The recalled snowshoes have an aluminum frame with Boa bindings and a deck made from polyethylene. They were sold in red, called carbon chili, and blue, called glacier/teal. Shares                  LL Bean recalls 3,000 pairs of adjustable snowshoes   WikiLeaks docs allege CIA can hack smartphones, and expose Frankfurt listening post   Gunmen attack military hospital in Afghan capital   At least 4 dead after train crashes into charter bus in Mississippi   Trump has not spoken to FBI director about wiretapping claims, Spicer says   Hawaii plans to amend lawsuit to fight revised travel ban   Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti wins second term   Chaffetz suggests Americans may need to choose between iPhone and health care   Poachers kill rhino for its horn at French zoo   Terminally ill boy fulfills wish to ski down mountain   Bride didn't let wedding party bus catching fire ruin her big day   Wedding ring attached to beads thrown in Fat Tuesday parade   Texas grandpa builds amusement park in backyard   Pregnant woman re-enacts giraffe livestream wearing mask   These mushers brave ice, snow and freezing temps to compete in Alaska’s Iditarod dogsled race   Journalist throws up during plane proposal to girlfriend   Young couple finds it 'freeing' to travel the country in a converted van   Judge won't stop construction of Dakota Access pipeline   Judge's family apologizes 160 years after Dred Scott   Hundreds pack Texas Capitol for transgender bathroom debate   After 6 years of war, Syrian children suffer from 'toxic stress'   Life in limbo: Diary of a Syrian mom affected by travel ban   Afghan family with visas released after days of detention   'Missing Richard Simmons' host says viral podcast is not 'a witch hunt'   Alec Baldwin says his days of playing Donald Trump are numbered   Avalanche strikes French ski resort of Tignes; no fatalities   Tornadoes slam Midwest, leaving a trail of destruction   'The Bachelor': Nick says bye-bye to next season's Bachelorette   How Tracee Ellis Ross learned to love her curves   Bruno Mars, Justin Timberlake shine at iHeartRadio Awards

Outdoors retailer L.L. Bean is recalling some snowshoes.

The Freeport, Maine-based company says it's pulling 3,000 adjustable snowshoes because the plastic material can weaken and break, posing a falling hazard.

The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission announced the recall Tuesday. It says L.L. Bean reported four failures but no one was hurt.

The recall involves the L.L. Bean Adventure Adjustable Snowshoes, 25 to 30 inches. The recalled snowshoes have an aluminum frame with Boa bindings and a deck made from polyethylene. They were sold in red, called carbon chili, and blue, called glacier/teal.