OracleVoice: What Drives Linux Guru Wim Coekaerts? Have Fun, Build Things People Will Use
OracleVoice: What Drives Linux Guru Wim Coekaerts? Have Fun, Build Things People Will Use
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Oracle       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. When Wim Coekaerts is solving problems and building things, he’s happy. When he’s not, he’s not. In his long career, he’s found joy working on early database appliances, and later guiding Oracle’s effort to make Linux, the open source operating system he’d played with since his school days in Belgium, its OS of record. Now, “Linux has become the operating system of the cloud,” Coekearts says, so he sees lots more fun on the horizon. Source: Oracle Developer Wim Coekaerts has been part of the Linux community since he was a youth. After a 19-year stint at Oracle, Coekaerts surprised many in the Linux community last year when he went to work at Microsoft, where he consulted on Microsoft’s open source efforts. Soon, however, he was enticed back to Oracle with the promise of technical leadership on Linux and other open source technologies that underpin Oracle Cloud . “[Microsoft] is a great company to work for,” he says. "I learned a lot in six months, just because I had never worked anywhere other than Oracle, and so it gave me a good perspective of things in a different culture.” But toward the end of his time at Microsoft, Coekaerts got a mild chiding via Twitter. “'You never tweet technical things anymore,'” Coekaerts recalls one of his Twitter followers saying. “And I realized that I used to always play with stuff, and I was always tweeting about, ‘Hey, I tried this thing out,’ and my blogs were always technical , and I realized that I wasn’t really doing that anymore.” Back at Oracle, Coekaerts is getting his hands dirty working on a new Linux kernel optimized for Oracle Bare Metal Cloud Services , as well as helping with an optimized hypervisor. “I like to work on something that we can build and ship, or something that we build and use,” he says. Coekaerts has been part of the Linux community since his youth. “It was my hobby,” he says. “That’s what I played with at school and at home for years, so I knew folks like Alan Cox and Stephen Tweedie and all the original people working on the kernel.” And when Oracle grew more serious about the operating system in the late 1990s, Coekaerts was right there suggesting options for porting Oracle software to Linux. Oracle released the world’s first commercial database on Linux in 1998. Then he got a call from Larry Ellison’s admin. Ellison wanted to build a network appliance on Linux and asked Coekaerts to lead the effort. Coekaerts’ effort was a technical success, and he followed that act by becoming a key part of Oracle’s support of the Red Hat distribution of Linux. He then developed Oracle’s own distribution, Oracle Linux, and built a new team to support it. “Larry knew how open source worked,” Coekaerts says of his first meetings with Oracle’s then-CEO. Together, with Oracle architect Edward Screven, they settled on an approach in which they would use the open source core and add the features they needed. Coekaerts guided the process of working with—and contributing to—the Linux community. “We would tell them, ‘Here is code that we wrote. Here are tests that we’ve run. Here’s the example of why we would like to do this,’” he says. “So it was not, ‘We want you to do this,’ but, ‘Here’s stuff we wrote.’” In this way, Oracle contributes to dozens of open source communities, from Docker to Eclipse to VirtualBox, while also taking a lead role in MySQL, GlassFish, NetBeans, and, of course, Java. “Ever since Oracle acquired MySQL it has gotten a lot better, including the GPL product,” Coekaerts says. “We contribute, and anyone can use it. I don’t think we get enough credit for that.” “If you look at the number of people we employ, we’re one of the biggest open source contributors globally,” says Coekaerts, pointing to hundreds of MySQL and Linux developers as examples. “Even a project like VirtualBox has dozens of people—full-time—paid for a completely open source product. And then there’s [all the people working on] NetBeans and GlassFish, and everything else that came from Sun.” Coekaerts reiterates that Oracle doesn’t compete with open source; it contributes code to improve the technology and then uses it in its products. “We compete with companies like Red Hat and SuSE, but we don’t compete with the Linux kernel,” he says. In his position back at Oracle, Coekaerts will have plenty of opportunities to contribute. "Linux is even more important than it was before,” he says. “There’s a lot more opportunity to contribute back and make things work in the cloud.That’s not just good for us, but it will be good for Linux. And all the work that we’ll do on containers and virtualization will help others scale in the cloud. It will be fun." The preceding is intended to outline our general product direction. It is intended for information purposes only, and may not be incorporated into any contract. It is not a commitment to deliver any material, code, or functionality, and should not be relied upon in making purchasing decisions. The development, release, and timing of any features or functionality described for Oracle's products remain at the sole discretion of Oracle. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

When Wim Coekaerts is solving problems and building things, he’s happy. When he’s not, he’s not.

In his long career, he’s found joy working on early database appliances, and later guiding Oracle’s effort to make Linux, the open source operating system he’d played with since his school days in Belgium, its OS of record. Now, “Linux has become the operating system of the cloud,” Coekearts says, so he sees lots more fun on the horizon.

Source: Oracle

After a 19-year stint at Oracle, Coekaerts surprised many in the Linux community last year when he went to work at Microsoft, where he consulted on Microsoft’s open source efforts. Soon, however, he was enticed back to Oracle with the promise of technical leadership on Linux and other open source technologies that underpin Oracle Cloud.

“[Microsoft] is a great company to work for,” he says. "I learned a lot in six months, just because I had never worked anywhere other than Oracle, and so it gave me a good perspective of things in a different culture.”

But toward the end of his time at Microsoft, Coekaerts got a mild chiding via Twitter. “'You never tweet technical things anymore,'” Coekaerts recalls one of his Twitter followers saying. “And I realized that I used to always play with stuff, and I was always tweeting about, ‘Hey, I tried this thing out,’ and my blogs were always technical, and I realized that I wasn’t really doing that anymore.”

Back at Oracle, Coekaerts is getting his hands dirty working on a new Linux kernel optimized for Oracle Bare Metal Cloud Services, as well as helping with an optimized hypervisor. “I like to work on something that we can build and ship, or something that we build and use,” he says.

Coekaerts has been part of the Linux community since his youth. “It was my hobby,” he says. “That’s what I played with at school and at home for years, so I knew folks like Alan Cox and Stephen Tweedie and all the original people working on the kernel.” And when Oracle grew more serious about the operating system in the late 1990s, Coekaerts was right there suggesting options for porting Oracle software to Linux. Oracle released the world’s first commercial database on Linux in 1998.

Then he got a call from Larry Ellison’s admin. Ellison wanted to build a network appliance on Linux and asked Coekaerts to lead the effort. Coekaerts’ effort was a technical success, and he followed that act by becoming a key part of Oracle’s support of the Red Hat distribution of Linux. He then developed Oracle’s own distribution, Oracle Linux, and built a new team to support it.

“Larry knew how open source worked,” Coekaerts says of his first meetings with Oracle’s then-CEO. Together, with Oracle architect Edward Screven, they settled on an approach in which they would use the open source core and add the features they needed.

Building Open Source Cred

Coekaerts guided the process of working with—and contributing to—the Linux community. “We would tell them, ‘Here is code that we wrote. Here are tests that we’ve run. Here’s the example of why we would like to do this,’” he says. “So it was not, ‘We want you to do this,’ but, ‘Here’s stuff we wrote.’”

In this way, Oracle contributes to dozens of open source communities, from Docker to Eclipse to VirtualBox, while also taking a lead role in MySQL, GlassFish, NetBeans, and, of course, Java. “Ever since Oracle acquired MySQL it has gotten a lot better, including the GPL product,” Coekaerts says. “We contribute, and anyone can use it. I don’t think we get enough credit for that.”

“If you look at the number of people we employ, we’re one of the biggest open source contributors globally,” says Coekaerts, pointing to hundreds of MySQL and Linux developers as examples. “Even a project like VirtualBox has dozens of people—full-time—paid for a completely open source product. And then there’s [all the people working on] NetBeans and GlassFish, and everything else that came from Sun.”

Coekaerts reiterates that Oracle doesn’t compete with open source; it contributes code to improve the technology and then uses it in its products. “We compete with companies like Red Hat and SuSE, but we don’t compete with the Linux kernel,” he says.

In his position back at Oracle, Coekaerts will have plenty of opportunities to contribute. "Linux is even more important than it was before,” he says. “There’s a lot more opportunity to contribute back and make things work in the cloud.That’s not just good for us, but it will be good for Linux. And all the work that we’ll do on containers and virtualization will help others scale in the cloud. It will be fun."

Jeff Erickson is a director of content strategy at Oracle.

Safe Harbor: The preceding is intended to outline our general product direction. It is intended for information purposes only, and may not be incorporated into any contract. It is not a commitment to deliver any material, code, or functionality, and should not be relied upon in making purchasing decisions. The development, release, and timing of any features or functionality described for Oracle's products remain at the sole discretion of Oracle.