Pheromones marketed in perfumes may not work as intended, researchers say



Pheromones marketed in perfumes may not work as intended, researchers say

Posted

Common perfumes advertised as containing pheromones may in fact not be as effective in helping to attract members of the opposite sex as many might think, new research has found.

Scientists from the University of Western Australia tested the chemicals on human subjects and found they did not reliably create the intended effect.

A pheromone is a chemical released by an animal of either gender to trigger a social response from others of the same species, often relating to reproduction.

Professor Leigh Simmons, who worked on the project, studied the responses of 94 human subjects to pheromones they were administered.

"The two compounds have complex names — the male compound is called androstadienone, and the female compound is estratetraenol," Professor Simmons said.

"The rate of attractiveness did not vary for males or females depending on which putative pheromone they were smelling.

"So this again tells us that the compounds are not sending any signal to the receiver about potential mate quality."

'Very little information' on commercial use, professor says

Professor Simmons said claims about pheromones in perfumes first appeared over two decades ago.

"In the early 1990s, a chemical company released and patented two chemicals, which they reported to be human pheromones," he said.

"They obviously had commercial interests in these compounds because the elixir of being able to add something to a perfume product and claim that this was going to make you more attractive to a member of the opposite sex would be quite a lucrative thing to have.

"But there was very little information on how they had discovered these compounds, or whether they indeed were biologically active compounds."

As for the beauty industry, Professor Simmons said women spraying themselves with perfume, even if ineffective, may have nothing to do with attracting a mate anyway.

"I think it is kind of interesting because there is a school [of thought] out there that much of the grooming and presentation in women is more about female competition than it is about mate attraction," he said.

Topics: science-and-technology, sexuality, australia