International Women's Day 2017: How big is the gender pay gap where you live?
International Women's Day 2017: How big is the gender pay gap where you live?
oday is International Women's Day with marches and protests against gender inequality taking place across the world. One of the more obvious examples of inequality between the sexes is in the gender pay gap. Figures from the Office for National Statistics show that the UK’s gender wage gap narrowed to a record low this year  but women still earn 9.4 per cent less than men, with big discrepancies still existing in some parts of the country. A full-time worker in 2016 earns an average wage of £13.59 per hour, according to the latest edition of the Office for National Statistics’ Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings . his is an increase of 2.2 per cent compared with the equivalent figure in 2015 and of 1.9 per cent after adjusting for inflation . For women working full time the average weekly wage stood at £12.82, 9.4 per cent less than the average of £14.16 earned by men working full time. This is the narrowest gender wage gap on record, down from 17.4 per cent in 1997. Despite this being the lowest gap on record there has been relatively little progress in recent years. Back in 2012 women earned 9.5 per cent less than men. here are big disparities across the UK when it comes to the gender wage gap with women in Clackmannanshire in Scotland the furthest behind their male counterparts. In Clackmannanshire the average female earns a full-time hourly wage of £9.37, 37 per cent behind the equivalent figure of £14.96 for men. ttlesford in Essex had the next biggest wage gap followed by Allerdale in Cumbria. t the other end of the scale, the ONS figures show that women actually earned more than men in 29 of the UK’s local authority areas. Rossendale in Lancashire was the most extreme example of this with women working full time earning £12.26 an hour, 27 per cent more than men. he inflation adjusted increase in wages this year is only the second year since 2008 that wages have increased. Lower earners have enjoyed the largest boost in pay in the past year with those in the bottom 20th percentile seeing their pay increase by 6.2 per cent. Commenting on the findings, ONS statistician James Scruton said: "The reason for growth being fastest at the bottom end of the pay scale is likely to be the result of the introduction of the National Living Wage shortly before the mid-April 2016 pay period covered by the survey. "We saw a definite boost in pay for those previously paid just below the new rate of £7.20 an hour. We saw a similar pattern back in 1999 when the National Minimum Wage came into force."

Today is International Women's Day with marches and protests against gender inequality taking place across the world.

One of the more obvious examples of inequality between the sexes is in the gender pay gap.

Figures from the Office for National Statistics show that the UK’s gender wage gap narrowed to a record low this year but women still earn 9.4 per cent less than men, with big discrepancies still existing in some parts of the country.

A full-time worker in 2016 earns an average wage of £13.59 per hour, according to the latest edition of the Office for National Statistics’ Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings.