Delhi Businessman Accused In Mercedes Hit-And-Run Case Arrested, He Was Drunk At The Time Of Accident
Delhi Mercedes Hit-And-Run Accused Arrested, He Was Drunk At The Time Of Accident
Delhi Businessman Accused In Mercedes Hit-And-Run Case Arrested, He Was Drunk At The Time Of Accident Delhi police has arrested, Savneet Singh a 27-year-old businessman in connection with the Mercedes hit-and-run case on Sunday night. The accused was arrested on Wednesday, three days after the incident, from Rajouri Garden and his vehicle was also seized. His Mercedes had crashed on to a scooter driven by 17-year-old Atul Arora , who was returning home from a function. The impact of the collision was such that the victim was flung in the air and suffered severe head injuries. Police had recovered some accessories, including the logo and the grill, from the accident spot, which had suggested that the scooter was hit by the high-end vehicle. According to police, Singh was behind the wheels at the time of the accident and he along with his friend, was going towards an eatery. Police suspect that Singh was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the mishap.

Delhi police has arrested, Savneet Singh a 27-year-old businessman in connection with the Mercedes hit-and-run case on Sunday night.

The accused was arrested on Wednesday, three days after the incident, from Rajouri Garden and his vehicle was also seized.

Screengrab

His Mercedes had crashed on to a scooter driven by 17-year-old Atul Arora, who was returning home from a function.

The impact of the collision was such that the victim was flung in the air and suffered severe head injuries.

Police had recovered some accessories, including the logo and the grill, from the accident spot, which had suggested that the scooter was hit by the high-end vehicle.

BCCL/ Representative Image

According to police, Singh was behind the wheels at the time of the accident and he along with his friend, was going towards an eatery.

Police suspect that Singh was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the mishap.