‘Harry Potter’ Star Rupert Grint Constantly Gets Confused for Ed Sheeran
‘Harry Potter’ Star Rupert Grint Constantly Gets Confused for Ed Sheeran
Rupert Grint is best known for his portrayal of Ron Weasley in the movies and has been in the public eye way longer than singer/songwriter Ed Sheeran , but it seems like lately, a lot more of those eyes are confusing Grint for Sheeran. On , when asked about the confusion, Grint joked about his recent plight. “It’s kind of 50/50 now. Someone stops me, it could go either way. It could be Ed or it could be me,” Grint said. The confusion isn’t exclusive to the general public. Even other entertainment A-listers have made the mistake. Grint explained, “Leo Sayer. The singer Leo Sayer, he came up to me and said he loved my music. Of course thinking I was Ed, and I just played along.” That’s right. Leo Sayer, singer of the hit 1976 song “You Make Me Feel Like Dancing,” thought Grint was Sheeran. If Grint doesn’t do something to stop this madness soon, he could be in for a lifetime of confusion, something fellow guest Sir Patrick Stewart is all too familiar with. Stewart said that people have been confusing him and his good friend Sir Ben Kingsley for years. Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram — or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter .

Rupert Grint is best known for his portrayal of Ron Weasley in the Harry Potter movies and has been in the public eye way longer than singer/songwriter Ed Sheeran, but it seems like lately, a lot more of those eyes are confusing Grint for Sheeran. On The Late Late Show With James Corden, when asked about the confusion, Grint joked about his recent plight.

Rupert Grint and Ed Sheeran show the resemblance in near identical outfits. (Photo: CBS) More

“It’s kind of 50/50 now. Someone stops me, it could go either way. It could be Ed or it could be me,” Grint said.

The confusion isn’t exclusive to the general public. Even other entertainment A-listers have made the mistake. Grint explained, “Leo Sayer. The singer Leo Sayer, he came up to me and said he loved my music. Of course thinking I was Ed, and I just played along.”

That’s right. Leo Sayer, singer of the hit 1976 song “You Make Me Feel Like Dancing,” thought Grint was Sheeran. If Grint doesn’t do something to stop this madness soon, he could be in for a lifetime of confusion, something fellow guest Sir Patrick Stewart is all too familiar with. Stewart said that people have been confusing him and his good friend Sir Ben Kingsley for years.

Check out Ed Sheeran and other highlights of the iHeartRadio Awards:

Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram — or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter.