Republican Party, WikiLeaks, International Women’s Day: Your Wednesday Briefing
Republican Party, WikiLeaks, International Women’s Day: Your Wednesday Briefing
Republicans who are hoping for a full House vote next week on the plan to replace the Affordable Care Act are facing resistance from conservative members of their party and skepticism from moderates. Some critics of the bill, which maintains many of the act’s mandates and basic benefits, called it “Obamacare lite.” Analysts say that millions of people would be at risk of losing their health coverage under the new legislation, especially those in their 50s and 60s. We also look at how the Republican plan could affect Medicaid . The latest trove, labeled Vault 7, appears to show a catalog of C.I.A. tools to break into smartphones, computers and internet-connected TVs, although there has been no public confirmation of the documents’ authenticity. Advertisement The episode has again raised tensions between spy agencies and technology companies. Here’s how vulnerable your devices might be. Those were the words of the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, when asked if he had seen evidence to back up President Trump’s claim that phones at Trump Tower were tapped during the campaign. Advertisement Other administration officials have been similarly evasive . Advertisement Seeking to pave the way for talks, Beijing is proposing that Pyongyang suspend its nuclear and missile programs in exchange for a halt to major military exercises between U.S. and South Korean forces. The North’s recent missile launches pose a test for Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, who is scheduled to travel to Asia next week. Advertisement Gunmen stormed a military hospital in Kabul today after a suicide bombing at one of its gates, Afghan officials said. At least 50 people were injured.. Dutch lawmakers, already concerned about possible meddling by Moscow, are increasingly worried about the influence of American donations to Geert Wilders and his far-right Party for Freedom. Advertisement Today’s episode looks at the forces behind some Republicans’ opposition to the health care bill. Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Listen from a computer , on an iOS device or on an Android device . Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business is pushing ahead with a $300 billion plan to become self-sufficient by 2025 in industries as varied as planes, computer chips and electric cars. Advertisement Western companies are worried the effort will give Chinese rivals an unfair advantage. whose selfie with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany was used in fake reports about terrorism lost a case against Facebook . It was viewed as an important indicator of how the country’s privacy laws will be applied to social media companies. Advertisement , Travis Kalanick, is seeking a chief operating officer to help him lead the company after recent focus on its culture and tactics. He’s looking for “a peer who can partner with me to write the next chapter in our journey.” were down on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living before you exercise in the morning? It might be worth reversing that order .  to a touching essay by a writer who, after learning she will soon die, composed a dating profile for her husband . : Will your St. Patrick’s Day be far from a New York-style deli? Making corned beef takes just a little planning. Advertisement Noteworthy 52 Places to Go: (Underwater) Maldives Visit an underwater restaurant in 360° video. The recently opened 5.8 Undersea Restaurant in the Maldives cultivates fine dining on your plate and a rich ecosystem of coral reef all around you.      Visit an underwater restaurant in the Maldives in our latest 360 video . Advertisement Chance the Rapper has donated $1 million to Chicago’s public school system, which is facing a funding crisis. Advertisement He described the gift as a “call to action.” Our early modern ancestors made pointillist creations, using rocks as their canvas, to depict their surroundings . Scientists found the works in a cave in France and believe they’re 38,000 years old. Advertisement We recently interviewed Bob Mankoff , the cartoon editor of The New Yorker who is stepping down after 20 years, and asked him to discuss some of his favorite pieces. “One of the things you have to recognize about humor is that at its heart it’s stupid, and we should enjoy that stupidity,” he said. On “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert asked the former C.I.A. director Michael Hayden about the recent WikiLeaks revelations. But the host didn’t seem to totally believe the answers. Back Story Today, for International Women’s Day , let’s see which country tops the list of female representation in Parliament. Advertisement Rwanda. Of 80 seats in the lower house, 49 are held by women (61 percent), as are 10 of the 26 in the upper house (38 percent), according to an international organization of parliaments. Since 2003, the country has required that at least 30 percent of representatives be female. Next is Bolivia , where a 2009 measure requires women to occupy at least 50 percent of elected positions. Women now hold 69 of the 130 seats in the lower house (53 percent) and 17 of 36 in the upper house (47 percent). Advertisement Cuba, which is third, uses “positive discrimination,” putting women in almost half the seats in the National Assembly. Iceland, Nicaragua, Sweden, Senegal, Mexico, Finland and South Africa fill out the top 10. The U.S. is No. 104, with 83 women out of 435 representatives, and 21 of 100 senators. Advertisement “The size of your dreams must always exceed your current capacity to achieve them,” the Liberian president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, told a Harvard graduating class in 2011. “If your dreams do not scare you, they are not big enough.” Advertisement We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Listen from a computer, on an iOS device or on an Android device.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• China is pushing ahead with a $300 billion plan to become self-sufficient by 2025 in industries as varied as planes, computer chips and electric cars.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Western companies are worried the effort will give Chinese rivals an unfair advantage.

• A Syrian refugee whose selfie with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany was used in fake reports about terrorism lost a case against Facebook.

It was viewed as an important indicator of how the country’s privacy laws will be applied to social media companies.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• The chief executive of Uber, Travis Kalanick, is seeking a chief operating officer to help him lead the company after recent focus on its culture and tactics.

He’s looking for “a peer who can partner with me to write the next chapter in our journey.”

• U.S. stocks were down on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• Do you eat before you exercise in the morning? It might be worth reversing that order.

• Readers responded to a touching essay by a writer who, after learning she will soon die, composed a dating profile for her husband.

• Recipe of the day: Will your St. Patrick’s Day be far from a New York-style deli? Making corned beef takes just a little planning.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Noteworthy

• Taking fine dining to a new level.

Video

Visit an underwater restaurant in the Maldives in our latest 360 video.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• A star gives back.

Chance the Rapper has donated $1 million to Chicago’s public school system, which is facing a funding crisis.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He described the gift as a “call to action.”

• Connecting the dots.

Our early modern ancestors made pointillist creations, using rocks as their canvas, to depict their surroundings.

Scientists found the works in a cave in France and believe they’re 38,000 years old.

• An artist’s farewell.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We recently interviewed Bob Mankoff, the cartoon editor of The New Yorker who is stepping down after 20 years, and asked him to discuss some of his favorite pieces.

Photo

“One of the things you have to recognize about humor is that at its heart it’s stupid, and we should enjoy that stupidity,” he said.

• Best of late-night TV.

On “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert asked the former C.I.A. director Michael Hayden about the recent WikiLeaks revelations. But the host didn’t seem to totally believe the answers.

Back Story

Today, for International Women’s Day, let’s see which country tops the list of female representation in Parliament.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Rwanda. Of 80 seats in the lower house, 49 are held by women (61 percent), as are 10 of the 26 in the upper house (38 percent), according to an international organization of parliaments. Since 2003, the country has required that at least 30 percent of representatives be female.

Photo

Next is Bolivia, where a 2009 measure requires women to occupy at least 50 percent of elected positions. Women now hold 69 of the 130 seats in the lower house (53 percent) and 17 of 36 in the upper house (47 percent).

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Cuba, which is third, uses “positive discrimination,” putting women in almost half the seats in the National Assembly.

Iceland, Nicaragua, Sweden, Senegal, Mexico, Finland and South Africa fill out the top 10. The U.S. is No. 104, with 83 women out of 435 representatives, and 21 of 100 senators.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“The size of your dreams must always exceed your current capacity to achieve them,” the Liberian president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, told a Harvard graduating class in 2011. “If your dreams do not scare you, they are not big enough.”

Caryn A. Wilson contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.