Venus Williams: Trailblazing On The Court And In The Boardroom
Venus Williams: Trailblazing On The Court And In The Boardroom
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Lilly Knoepp       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo courtesy of Venus Williams) Venus Williams wants you to know: Strength has no gender. (Image courtesy of Brawny) Strength has no gender Brawny paper towl campaign puts a woman on their label. Williams' favorite woman trailblazer? Tennis great Billie Jean King, of course. King made her mark when she famously won the "Battle of The Sexes" tennis match against Bobby Riggs and helped pass Title XI The Williams sisters have not been quiet in their own fights for equality. Both have been pioneers for women through their achievements. Williams said that it's surreal to be thought of as a leader. "It’s surreal - but at the same time, it’s extremely motivating to know that people are watching and that it’s improving their work and their lives - so it’s symbiosis," said Williams. Recently, her sister Serena made headlines by stating that she would rather be known as "one of the best athletes in the world" not "one of the best female athletes." Supporting of each other - even when they are playing against each other - is another thing that the Williams sisters are known for. Williams treasures the unique experience of being able to play her sister on an international stage like the recent Australian Open in January. But that support only goes so far. "When we play against each other each other, there can only be one winner," said Williams.  "When I see her do something great. I want to do better." When Williams is not the winner - which has happened during her career playing against her sister Serena, who currently holds the most singles titles by any tennis player in the world- she says that she actually learns more. "A loss is just the beginning. When you lose that’s the best thing for you," said Williams. "No matter what it’s always a slice of humble pie. It opens your eyes to lose in a way that winning can’t." This drive to push yourself is just one of the lessons Williams explains that athletics has taught her which can be applied to running a business. Just like early morning practices and training regimes being an entrepreneur is hard work and it makes work/life balance difficult. Williams has a more practical approach: "You have to embrace being a little not as balanced as you would like to be. I enjoy a challenge and thrive in that environment." This challenge is what makes Williams a strong athlete and a businesswoman. "You have to take on what comes your way," she said. "I love what I do." Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

(Photo courtesy of Venus Williams)

Venus Williams is known as a tennis superstar boasting seven Grand Slam titles. Off the court, Williams is a powerhouse in the boardroom of her clothing company EleVen. Williams, 36, credits the discipline that she learned growing up playing tennis with her parents/coaches and sister, 23-Grand Slam winner Serena Williams, 35, for preparing her for the world of entrepreneurship.

“Absolutely sports prepares you to set goals, to fail and to win in a way that you don’t know when you are doing it,” said Williams. “Business and athletics really marry each other. I can only see similarities.”

Williams has seen these comparisons during her four years designing and running EleVen as well as in her newer company V*Starr Interiors, a design firm. Williams prepared for her roles off the court by finishing fashion interior design and business degrees.

Beyond her education, there are many comparisons that Williams has seen between the corporate world and the athletic world. An important one is the barriers that women still need to break in both fields.

“My number one way to empower women and empower everyone who are fathers and brothers as well is to embrace that strength has no gender. We can come together in that,” said Williams.

For Women’s History Month, Williams is partnering with Brawny for their #StrengthHasNoGender campaign to highlight four women trailblazers in the place of their famous Brawny paper towel man logo. The list includes the first African-American female combat pilot, Venice Armour and the first woman to graduate from Columbia College, Dr. Anna Kornbrot.

(Image courtesy of Brawny)

Williams' favorite woman trailblazer? Tennis great Billie Jean King, of course. King made her mark when she famously won the "Battle of The Sexes" tennis match against Bobby Riggs and helped pass Title XI legislation that ensures equal access to federally funded educational programs and activities for women and men.

The Williams sisters have not been quiet in their own fights for equality. Both have been pioneers for women through their achievements. Williams said that it's surreal to be thought of as a leader.

"It’s surreal - but at the same time, it’s extremely motivating to know that people are watching and that it’s improving their work and their lives - so it’s symbiosis," said Williams.

Recently, her sister Serena made headlines by stating that she would rather be known as "one of the best athletes in the world" not "one of the best female athletes."

"I think that her quote speaks for itself," said Williams of her sister's statement. "At the end of the day all of us have the same human experience."

Supporting of each other - even when they are playing against each other - is another thing that the Williams sisters are known for. Williams treasures the unique experience of being able to play her sister on an international stage like the recent Australian Open in January. But that support only goes so far.

"When we play against each other each other, there can only be one winner," said Williams. "When I see her do something great. I want to do better."

When Williams is not the winner - which has happened during her career playing against her sister Serena, who currently holds the most singles titles by any tennis player in the world- she says that she actually learns more.

"A loss is just the beginning. When you lose that’s the best thing for you," said Williams. "No matter what it’s always a slice of humble pie. It opens your eyes to lose in a way that winning can’t."

This drive to push yourself is just one of the lessons Williams explains that athletics has taught her which can be applied to running a business. Just like early morning practices and training regimes being an entrepreneur is hard work and it makes work/life balance difficult.

Williams has a more practical approach: "You have to embrace being a little not as balanced as you would like to be. I enjoy a challenge and thrive in that environment."

This challenge is what makes Williams a strong athlete and a businesswoman.

"You have to take on what comes your way," she said. "I love what I do."