How are you marking International Women's Day?

Millions of people around the world are marking International Women’s Day, in what campaigners are saying is the most political global event of its kind yet. Women in more than 50 countries will go on strike from paid and unpaid labour on Wednesday, while many more will be taking part in protests and direct action. In some countries women will wear black, or different colours, while the focus on issues from femicide to abortion will be decided in each nation. The International Women’s Strike is suggesting that women “boycott local misogynists”, stop shopping, go on a sex strike, block roads and streets, and take part in marches or pickets. Women are also encouraged to leave calls to action in “out of office” replies, describing why they are striking. However, or wherever, you’re marking International Women’s Day we’d like you to share your experiences, messages, photographs and videos with us. Click on the blue ‘Contribute’ button at the top of the live blog and we’ll use a selection of responses in our reporting. We recognise it may not always be safe to record or share your experiences – so please think about this when sharing your content with GuardianWitness. You can also share your thoughts using the form below. We’ll make sure to keep your details as safe as possible.  World news   Feminism   Equal pay   news

Millions of people around the world are marking International Women’s Day, in what campaigners are saying is the most political global event of its kind yet.

Women in more than 50 countries will go on strike from paid and unpaid labour on Wednesday, while many more will be taking part in protests and direct action. In some countries women will wear black, or different colours, while the focus on issues from femicide to abortion will be decided in each nation.

The International Women’s Strike is suggesting that women “boycott local misogynists”, stop shopping, go on a sex strike, block roads and streets, and take part in marches or pickets. Women are also encouraged to leave calls to action in “out of office” replies, describing why they are striking.

However, or wherever, you’re marking International Women’s Day we’d like you to share your experiences, messages, photographs and videos with us. Click on the blue ‘Contribute’ button at the top of the live blog and we’ll use a selection of responses in our reporting.

We recognise it may not always be safe to record or share your experiences – so please think about this when sharing your content with GuardianWitness.

You can also share your thoughts using the form below. We’ll make sure to keep your details as safe as possible.