Alec Baldwin criticises 'constipated' Donald Trump on James Corden's Late Late Show
Alec Baldwin criticises 'constipated' Donald Trump on James Corden's Late Late Show
Over the course of the past year, Alec Baldwin has been dedicating most of his time into publicly expressing his dislike of President Donald Trump . He viewed his appearance on James Corden's as no exception, using the opportunity to tear into the 'constipated' Republican. Baldwin told Corden: “He’s President of the United States, and he still looks incredibly constipated. He looks terrible. “I thought, when he won, he’d like relax and be more generous. He won, but he acts like he lost…It’s inexplicable.” The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images  The actor also told the British host how Trump used to be a rather convivial person and “not at all like he is now.” Baldwin has been famously impersonating the President on a series of sketches for the past six months - something trump himself has lampooned on social media. He admitted just this week, however, that the seriousness of America's political situation may see him give up the wig, telling Mario Lopez : “I don't now how much more people can take it.” So synonymous has Baldwin's impersonation become with Trump that a Dominican Republic newspaper mistakenly used a picture of the former in place of the US president . More about: Donald Trump Alec Baldwin James Corden Comments

Over the course of the past year, Alec Baldwin has been dedicating most of his time into publicly expressing his dislike of President Donald Trump.

He viewed his appearance on James Corden's Late Late Show as no exception, using the opportunity to tear into the 'constipated' Republican.

Baldwin told Corden: “He’s President of the United States, and he still looks incredibly constipated. He looks terrible.

“I thought, when he won, he’d like relax and be more generous. He won, but he acts like he lost…It’s inexplicable.”

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







8 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued













1/8 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

2/8 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

3/8 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

4/8 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

5/8 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

6/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

7/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

8/8 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

The actor also told the British host how Trump used to be a rather convivial person and “not at all like he is now.”

Baldwin has been famously impersonating the President on a series of Saturday Night Live sketches for the past six months - something trump himself has lampooned on social media. He admitted just this week, however, that the seriousness of America's political situation may see him give up the wig, telling Mario Lopez: “I don't now how much more people can take it.”

Alec Baldwin on Playing Donald Trump

So synonymous has Baldwin's impersonation become with Trump that a Dominican Republic newspaper mistakenly used a picture of the former in place of the US president.