AMA Says Trumpcare Is 'Critically Flawed'
AMA Says Trumpcare Is 'Critically Flawed'
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Japsen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Providers of medical care, including the American Medical Association, that have benefited from millions of paying customers under the Affordable Care Act have come out strong against the GOP-led U.S. House of Representatives’ American Health Care Act, also known as Trumpcare. Amid mounting opposition from conservative Republicans and all Democrats in Congress, those providing healthcare are overwhelmingly opposed to the House legislation backed by Speaker Paul Ryan, with the AMA calling it "critically flawed," harming "vulnerable populations." The AMA joined a chorus of groups, including the American Hospital Association and the American Academy of Family of Physicians, bemoaning the House bill’s lack of coverage, financial details and transparency. Donald Trump hosts Republican Congressional leaders Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.); Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and others during a working lunch at the White House March 1, 2017. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) “As drafted, said Wednesday. “ –if not out of reach–for poor and sick Americans. For these reasons, the AMA cannot support the AHCA as it is currently written.” Key to support of medical care providers is a promise Donald Trump has made repeatedly to maintain coverage for those who have gained health benefits under the ACA. Trump has also said there would be a transition period for those who purchased coverage on public exchanges to something “better.” But the most influential associations of medical care providers say they don’t see an improving situation in Washington. “More than 20 million Americans currently have healthcare coverage due to the Affordable Care Act and among the AMA’s highest priorities for ongoing health system reform efforts is to ensure that these individuals maintain that coverage,” the AMA wrote to leaders on the U.S. House Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce committees. “While we agree that there are problems with the ACA that must be addressed, we cannot support the AHCA as drafted because of the expected decline in health insurance coverage and the potential harm it would cause to vulnerable patient populations.” The GOP House legislation is also problematic because it comes without coverage estimates and a price tag from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Analysts have said it would increase the deficit and cause millions to lose coverage, particularly if the ACA’s Medicaid expansion is rolled back. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Providers of medical care, including the American Medical Association, that have benefited from millions of paying customers under the Affordable Care Act have come out strong against the GOP-led U.S. House of Representatives’ American Health Care Act, also known as Trumpcare.

Amid mounting opposition from conservative Republicans and all Democrats in Congress, those providing healthcare are overwhelmingly opposed to the House legislation backed by Speaker Paul Ryan, with the AMA calling it "critically flawed," harming "vulnerable populations." The AMA joined a chorus of groups, including the American Hospital Association and the American Academy of Family of Physicians, bemoaning the House bill’s lack of coverage, financial details and transparency.

“As drafted, the AHCA would result in millions of Americans losing coverage and benefits,” AMA President Dr. Andrew Gurman said Wednesday. “ By replacing income-based premium subsidies with age-based tax credits, AHCA will also make coverage more expensive–if not out of reach–for poor and sick Americans. For these reasons, the AMA cannot support the AHCA as it is currently written.”

Key to support of medical care providers is a promise Donald Trump has made repeatedly to maintain coverage for those who have gained health benefits under the ACA. Trump has also said there would be a transition period for those who purchased coverage on public exchanges to something “better.”

But the most influential associations of medical care providers say they don’t see an improving situation in Washington. The ACA signed into law in 2010 by President Barack Obama brought providers millions of paying customers.

“More than 20 million Americans currently have healthcare coverage due to the Affordable Care Act and among the AMA’s highest priorities for ongoing health system reform efforts is to ensure that these individuals maintain that coverage,” the AMA wrote to leaders on the U.S. House Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce committees. “While we agree that there are problems with the ACA that must be addressed, we cannot support the AHCA as drafted because of the expected decline in health insurance coverage and the potential harm it would cause to vulnerable patient populations.”

The GOP House legislation is also problematic because it comes without coverage estimates and a price tag from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Analysts have said it would increase the deficit and cause millions to lose coverage, particularly if the ACA’s Medicaid expansion is rolled back.