Putin celebrates women with the cold eyes of doom
Putin celebrates women with the cold eyes of doom
Sometimes people say words with their mouths but their faces tell you they don't give one tiny shit about what they're saying. This is not Vladimir Putin! The Russian president is a man of sincerity. SEE ALSO: Somebody made a spot-on Facebook Friendversary video for Trump and Putin Look at this tweet in which he congratulates women on International Women's Day, and feel enveloped in warm compassion. Today is International Women's Day. Congratulations from the President https://t.co/kxusMoQcIJ  pic.twitter.com/MY4zqRIJgC — President of Russia (@KremlinRussia_E) March 8, 2017 Wow! Am I suddenly wrapped in a blanket? I don't know about all the women out there, but I have literally never been in the presence of a deeper love than I am right now. That is the genuine face of a man watching his daughter blow out the candles on her birthday cake, the face of a man unable to control his radiant joy upon simply looking at the woman who has chosen to marry him. It is not the face of professional wrestler Stone Cold Steve Austin! Not Vladimir Putin. Image:  NILS JORGENSEN/REX/Shutterstock Very different. That is not the face of someone who would say " Happy Women's Day ," and mean it. No. WATCH: Across the globe, nasty women and men hit the streets one day after Trump's inauguration

Sometimes people say words with their mouths but their faces tell you they don't give one tiny shit about what they're saying.

This is not Vladimir Putin! The Russian president is a man of sincerity.

Look at this tweet in which he congratulates women on International Women's Day, and feel enveloped in warm compassion.

Today is International Women's Day. Congratulations from the President https://t.co/kxusMoQcIJ pic.twitter.com/MY4zqRIJgC — President of Russia (@KremlinRussia_E) March 8, 2017

Wow! Am I suddenly wrapped in a blanket?

I don't know about all the women out there, but I have literally never been in the presence of a deeper love than I am right now. That is the genuine face of a man watching his daughter blow out the candles on her birthday cake, the face of a man unable to control his radiant joy upon simply looking at the woman who has chosen to marry him. It is not the face of professional wrestler Stone Cold Steve Austin!

Not Vladimir Putin. Image: NILS JORGENSEN/REX/Shutterstock

Very different. That is not the face of someone who would say "Happy Women's Day," and mean it.

No.