Pro tip: How to get ready for the next 'Overwatch' hero Orisa
Pro tip: How to get ready for the next 'Overwatch' hero Orisa
The 24th hero, Orisa, was revealed last week and has been playable on 's public test region on PC, which means the robot tank will be coming to all platforms soon. With Orisa's introduction approaching, we're breaking down what she does and taking a look at how to best utilize her so you're prepared on launch day.  SEE ALSO: Tips and strategies to help you master every 'Overwatch' hero Orisa's abilities An automatic weapon with a huge 150-round clip that takes the place of Orisa's right arm. Fires at a rate of 12 rounds per second and each round does 12 damage, but slows Orisa's movement speed when using it. Has a fixed spread, which means you can just hold the trigger without worrying about losing accuracy. Launches a graviton charge forward. When detonated, it slows nearby enemies and pulls them toward it. Eight-second cooldown. A shield Orisa can throw down that is shaped similarly to Reinhardt's shield but is stationary like Winston's. Has 900 health and lasts for 20 seconds, blocking enemy projectiles from hitting all allies standing behind it. 12-second cooldown. Reduces the damage that Orisa receives by 50 percent and makes her impervious to action-impairing effects like movement reduction or knockback. 10-second cooldown. Deploys a stationary device that increases allies' damage by 50 percent for 15 seconds. Only effects allies within line of sight and has a 25-meter range. Has 200 health and can be destroyed by enemies. Using Orisa Orisa is a versatile tank with unique abilities that make her helpful as an offensive, defensive and support character. YouTuber JoeKing shared some tips and things to keep in mind when picking the new hero. Teamwork is very important for Orisa to be a successful hero. To get the most out of her abilities, Orisa's teammates need to be nearby or in-sync. Protective Barrier should be deployed between your own team and the bulk of the enemy team to defend everyone from enemy fire. It's especially helpful for advancing through narrow chokepoints, and when paired with a well-placed Supercharger, pushes onto points or through chokepoints suddenly become a lot easier. When attacking, Orisa's Fusion Driver isn't great at long distances given its spread, but can be devastating at close ranges. To make the most of an offensive play with Orisa, move in close with your team and use the Fortify ability to counteract enemies' defensive strikes and keep moving. When there are several enemies to take care of, Halt! can be a very effective ability when used in sync with your teammates. You can also use Halt! and detonate it above a group of enemy players to hold them in one spot for a brief moment, which is perfect when paired with damaging area of effect ultimates like Pharah's, Tracer's or Hanzo's, or when used right before or after Reinhardt's or Zarya's for extended movement control. When holding a point with Orisa, the Protective Barrier is your best friend and staying behind it is key. Keep an eye on the shield's health and be ready to deploy a new one as soon as its cooldown is up. Orisa is best suited at close range for dealing damage and doesn't move very fast so wait for enemies to come to you instead of going out and harassing them. If enemies do manage to get in close, don't forget to pop Fortify to increase your survivability. One last thing to keep in mind when playing Orisa is her ultimate, Supercharger. Because it's stationary and has pretty low health, you want to make sure it's protected from enemy fire but still has line of sight to your allies. Keeping it behind a protective barrier and blocking it with your body is your best bet in most situations so your team can get the full 15-second buff. Blizzard has not announced when Orisa will be officially coming to the game but did mention that she will spend a longer time in the PTR than the previous two heroes, Sombra and Ana. WATCH: This trailer for 'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2' is made from homemade toys and props

Being a pro gamer isn't easy. Mastering top competitive games takes hundreds of hours of practice — but also knowledge. Each week, we'll share the most useful tips and tricks to improve your play. It's time to get good.

The 24th Overwatch hero, Orisa, was revealed last week and has been playable on Overwatch's public test region on PC, which means the robot tank will be coming to all platforms soon.

With Orisa's introduction approaching, we're breaking down what she does and taking a look at how to best utilize her so you're prepared on launch day.





Orisa's abilities

Primary weapon: Fusion Driver An automatic weapon with a huge 150-round clip that takes the place of Orisa's right arm. Fires at a rate of 12 rounds per second and each round does 12 damage, but slows Orisa's movement speed when using it. Has a fixed spread, which means you can just hold the trigger without worrying about losing accuracy.

Halt! Launches a graviton charge forward. When detonated, it slows nearby enemies and pulls them toward it. Eight-second cooldown.

Protective Barrier A shield Orisa can throw down that is shaped similarly to Reinhardt's shield but is stationary like Winston's. Has 900 health and lasts for 20 seconds, blocking enemy projectiles from hitting all allies standing behind it. 12-second cooldown.

Fortify Reduces the damage that Orisa receives by 50 percent and makes her impervious to action-impairing effects like movement reduction or knockback. 10-second cooldown.

Ultimate ability: Supercharger Deploys a stationary device that increases allies' damage by 50 percent for 15 seconds. Only effects allies within line of sight and has a 25-meter range. Has 200 health and can be destroyed by enemies.

Using Orisa

Orisa is a versatile tank with unique abilities that make her helpful as an offensive, defensive and support character. YouTuber JoeKing Overwatch shared some tips and things to keep in mind when picking the new hero.

Teamwork is very important for Orisa to be a successful hero. To get the most out of her abilities, Orisa's teammates need to be nearby or in-sync.

Protective Barrier should be deployed between your own team and the bulk of the enemy team to defend everyone from enemy fire. It's especially helpful for advancing through narrow chokepoints, and when paired with a well-placed Supercharger, pushes onto points or through chokepoints suddenly become a lot easier.

When attacking, Orisa's Fusion Driver isn't great at long distances given its spread, but can be devastating at close ranges. To make the most of an offensive play with Orisa, move in close with your team and use the Fortify ability to counteract enemies' defensive strikes and keep moving.

When there are several enemies to take care of, Halt! can be a very effective ability when used in sync with your teammates. You can also use Halt! and detonate it above a group of enemy players to hold them in one spot for a brief moment, which is perfect when paired with damaging area of effect ultimates like Pharah's, Tracer's or Hanzo's, or when used right before or after Reinhardt's or Zarya's for extended movement control.

When holding a point with Orisa, the Protective Barrier is your best friend and staying behind it is key. Keep an eye on the shield's health and be ready to deploy a new one as soon as its cooldown is up. Orisa is best suited at close range for dealing damage and doesn't move very fast so wait for enemies to come to you instead of going out and harassing them. If enemies do manage to get in close, don't forget to pop Fortify to increase your survivability.

One last thing to keep in mind when playing Orisa is her ultimate, Supercharger. Because it's stationary and has pretty low health, you want to make sure it's protected from enemy fire but still has line of sight to your allies. Keeping it behind a protective barrier and blocking it with your body is your best bet in most situations so your team can get the full 15-second buff.

Blizzard has not announced when Orisa will be officially coming to the game but did mention that she will spend a longer time in the PTR than the previous two heroes, Sombra and Ana.