Mike Shinoda Is Heading to Cannes: Midem Taps Linkin Park Artist as Keynote
Mike Shinoda Is Heading to Cannes: Midem Taps Linkin Park Artist as Keynote
Mike Shinoda Is Heading to Cannes: Midem Taps Linkin Park Artist as Keynote  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Linkin Park multi-hyphenate will deliver a keynote at this year's Midem music industry trade fair in Cannes, France. The 2017 conference will take place June 6-9 with the hopeful theme, "A new golden age for the music industry? Get ready to embrace it." Shinoda, a graphic designer by trade and co-founder of the rock band's management and venture capital firm, Machine Shop, will also act as a jury member for Midemlab, Midem's competition for music startups. "Mike brings together creativity and technology in the most exciting ways to break barriers, promote and invest globally in innovation, even beyond music," said new Midem director Alexandre Deniot in a statement. "His vision will undoubtedly be highly inspirational for both the Midem audience and the Midemlab finalists, who will be able to pitch their solutions to him and get his extremely valuable feedback."  Shinoda added that his Grammy winning nu metal band "has always been integrating forward-thinking culture, sounds and technology into our musical landscape... We are always seeking new ways to release our music and connect with our global fan base. Interacting with bright minds and partnering with innovators that authentically connect with the band keeps us inspired and part of the changing tide." Previously announced speakers at the music industry event, which celebrated its 50th anniversary last year, include Epic Records chairman and CEO L.A. Reid , Puerto Rican singer-songwriter Daddy Yankee and First Access Entertainment CEO Sarah Stennett.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Mike Shinoda arrives at Clive Davis & The Recording Academy's 2013 Pre-Grammy Gala and Salute to Industry Icons honoring Antonio "L.A." Reid at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on Feb. 9, 2013 in Beverly Hills, Calif.

Linkin Park multi-hyphenate Mike Shinoda will deliver a keynote at this year's Midem music industry trade fair in Cannes, France. The 2017 conference will take place June 6-9 with the hopeful theme, "A new golden age for the music industry? Get ready to embrace it."

Shinoda, a graphic designer by trade and co-founder of the rock band's management and venture capital firm, Machine Shop, will also act as a jury member for Midemlab, Midem's competition for music startups.

"Mike brings together creativity and technology in the most exciting ways to break barriers, promote and invest globally in innovation, even beyond music," said new Midem director Alexandre Deniot in a statement. "His vision will undoubtedly be highly inspirational for both the Midem audience and the Midemlab finalists, who will be able to pitch their solutions to him and get his extremely valuable feedback."

Shinoda added that his Grammy winning nu metal band "has always been integrating forward-thinking culture, sounds and technology into our musical landscape... We are always seeking new ways to release our music and connect with our global fan base. Interacting with bright minds and partnering with innovators that authentically connect with the band keeps us inspired and part of the changing tide."

Previously announced speakers at the music industry event, which celebrated its 50th anniversary last year, include Epic Records chairman and CEO L.A. Reid, Puerto Rican singer-songwriter Daddy Yankee and First Access Entertainment CEO Sarah Stennett.