Nordic Nations Among the Best Countries for Women, Survey Finds
Nordic Nations Among the Best Countries for Women, Survey Finds
The Swedes are quite accustomed to first place, regularly topping lists like the Best Places to Raise Kids and The Good Country Index . And now the country can add yet another accolade to its list. Sweden is the best country for women, at least according to the more than 9,000 women who filled out surveys for the 2017 Best Countries rankings . The rankings, formed in partnership with global marketing communications company Y&R's brand strategy firm, BAV Consulting, and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, aim to gauge global perceptions of the world's biggest economies in terms of specific attributes associated with countries. The Swedish government calls gender equality one of the "cornerstones" of the country's society. The concept is enshrined in Sweden's education system , where nearly two-thirds of all university degrees are awarded to women, and in its parental leave policies, which give around three months of leave specifically to each parent. Gender equality is reflected in the workplace, as well. Sweden's Discrimination Act requires that all employers must "actively pursue specific goals to promote equality between men and women," according to a Swedish government website . The Best Countries for Women , which include countries such as Canada , the Netherlands and Norway , scored highest on a compilation of five country attributes: cares about human rights, gender equality, income equality, safe and progressive. Tunisia and Bolivia are perceived to be the worst countries for females. Here are the top five Best Countries for Women: Canada ranks No. 35 out of 144 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016. The country's government has made protecting women's rights part of both its domestic and foreign policy . But the experience of being a woman in Canada is far from uniform. Indigenous women, for example, face significantly higher murder rates than most Canadian women. The Netherlands ranks No. 16 out of 144 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016, meaning it has done a relatively good job of narrowing the gender gap between women and men across health, education, economy and politics. The country provides benefits to new mothers, including giving them access to a maternity nurse, with part or all of the cost covered by insurance. Norway is considered one of the most gender equal nations on the globe. The country ranks No. 3 out of 144 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016. Generous maternity leave policies give women extra support. Mothers can take 35 weeks at full pay or 45 weeks at 80 percent pay, according to the World Economic Forum . Denmark promotes gender equality by offering an earnings-related day care system and a parental leave policy that is among the most flexible in the European Union, according to the organization's website. Denmark ranked No. 19 out of 144 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016. The report looks at the relative gaps between women and men across health, education, economy and politics. Swedes have the most progressive attitudes toward gender equality , according to a report released by YouGov, a United Kingdom-based market research firm. Both men and women in the Nordic country tend to see women as an oppressed group -- and leaders seem to have taken steps to address it. Sweden also fared well in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016, ranking No. 4 out of 144 countries.  Devon Haynie is news editor, international for U.S. News. You can follow her on Twitter or email her at dhaynie@usnews.com .





The Swedes are quite accustomed to first place, regularly topping lists like the Best Places to Raise Kids and The Good Country Index.

And now the country can add yet another accolade to its list. Sweden is the best country for women, at least according to the more than 9,000 women who filled out surveys for the 2017 Best Countries rankings. The rankings, formed in partnership with global marketing communications company Y&R's brand strategy firm, BAV Consulting, and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, aim to gauge global perceptions of the world's biggest economies in terms of specific attributes associated with countries.

The Swedish government calls gender equality one of the "cornerstones" of the country's society. The concept is enshrined in Sweden's education system, where nearly two-thirds of all university degrees are awarded to women, and in its parental leave policies, which give around three months of leave specifically to each parent.

Gender equality is reflected in the workplace, as well. Sweden's Discrimination Act requires that all employers must "actively pursue specific goals to promote equality between men and women," according to a Swedish government website.

The Best Countries for Women, which include countries such as Canada, the Netherlands and Norway, scored highest on a compilation of five country attributes: cares about human rights, gender equality, income equality, safe and progressive. Tunisia and Bolivia are perceived to be the worst countries for females. Here are the top five Best Countries for Women:

No. 5: Canada

Canada ranks No. 35 out of 144 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016. The country's government has made protecting women's rights part of both its domestic and foreign policy. But the experience of being a woman in Canada is far from uniform. Indigenous women, for example, face significantly higher murder rates than most Canadian women.



No. 4: Netherlands

The Netherlands ranks No. 16 out of 144 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016, meaning it has done a relatively good job of narrowing the gender gap between women and men across health, education, economy and politics. The country provides benefits to new mothers, including giving them access to a maternity nurse, with part or all of the cost covered by insurance.

No. 3: Norway

Norway is considered one of the most gender equal nations on the globe. The country ranks No. 3 out of 144 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016. Generous maternity leave policies give women extra support. Mothers can take 35 weeks at full pay or 45 weeks at 80 percent pay, according to the World Economic Forum.

No. 2: Denmark

Denmark promotes gender equality by offering an earnings-related day care system and a parental leave policy that is among the most flexible in the European Union, according to the organization's website. Denmark ranked No. 19 out of 144 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016. The report looks at the relative gaps between women and men across health, education, economy and politics.



No. 1: Sweden

Swedes have the most progressive attitudes toward gender equality, according to a report released by YouGov, a United Kingdom-based market research firm. Both men and women in the Nordic country tend to see women as an oppressed group -- and leaders seem to have taken steps to address it. Sweden also fared well in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2016, ranking No. 4 out of 144 countries.



See the full list of Best Countries for Women here.







Devon Haynie is news editor, international for U.S. News. You can follow her on Twitter or email her at dhaynie@usnews.com.