Shahid Kapoor’s Brother Ishaan Is All Set To Make His Acting Debut & Here's All The Dope
Shahid Kapoor’s Brother Ishaan Is All Set To Make His Acting Debut & Here's All The Dope
Shahid Kapoor’s Brother Ishaan Is All Set To Make His Acting Debut & Here's All The Dope For long, speculations have been widespread that Shahid Kapoor’s brother Ishaan Khattar is making his debut on the big screen. Sometime back it was revealed that he will feature in Iranian filmmaker Majid Majidi’s forthcoming film titled . National award winning filmmaker Goutam Ghose, who has been roped in, not as a director but as an actor, in the film has spilled the beans on the project. Here is what he said: “As a filmmaker, it's exciting to work with another director. He has a translator to communicate his instructions from Persian to English but given his involvement, it's like we're speaking the same language. The film doesn't have any big stars, but Majidi is a star himself,” he told Mumbai Mirror. Goutam Ghose also said that the movie has a mix of Indian as well as Italian actors. The flick is about relationships and life, reportedly. The filming of the movie began about a month back. The first poster from the movie was unveiled at the 67th Berlin International Film Festival. Here it is #beyondtheclouds #majidmajidi #berlinale #eyecandyfilms #zeestudios A post shared by Ishaan Khatter (@ishaan95) on Feb 9, 2017 at 9:09pm PST   Majid Majidi is an Iranian movie director, producer as well as a screenwriter, who started his career as an actor. He is known for making hard-hitting movies, which have meaningful stories. He is known for his films such as , and is his first film in India, which will be shot in different cities across the country. Previously, during a press interaction, the Iranian filmmaker was all praises for Ishaan. He said, “Ishaan is a wonderful boy. He is extremely talented and I feel, he will have a bright future in the film industry.” All the best, Ishaan!

For long, speculations have been widespread that Shahid Kapoor’s brother Ishaan Khattar is making his debut on the big screen. Sometime back it was revealed that he will feature in Iranian filmmaker Majid Majidi’s forthcoming film titled Beyond The Clouds.

National award winning filmmaker Goutam Ghose, who has been roped in, not as a director but as an actor, in the film has spilled the beans on the project. Here is what he said:

“As a filmmaker, it's exciting to work with another director. He has a translator to communicate his instructions from Persian to English but given his involvement, it's like we're speaking the same language. The film doesn't have any big stars, but Majidi is a star himself,” he told Mumbai Mirror. Goutam Ghose also said that the movie has a mix of Indian as well as Italian actors.

ndianfilmsinfo.com The flick is about relationships and life, reportedly. The filming of the movie began about a month back. The first poster from the movie was unveiled at the 67th Berlin International Film Festival. Here it is

#beyondtheclouds #majidmajidi #berlinale #eyecandyfilms #zeestudios A post shared by Ishaan Khatter (@ishaan95) on Feb 9, 2017 at 9:09pm PST

Majid Majidi is an Iranian movie director, producer as well as a screenwriter, who started his career as an actor. He is known for making hard-hitting movies, which have meaningful stories. He is known for his films such as Children Of Heaven, The Color Of Paradise, Baran and The Song of Sparrows. Beyond The Clouds is his first film in India, which will be shot in different cities across the country.

persianfilmfestival.com

Previously, during a press interaction, the Iranian filmmaker was all praises for Ishaan. He said, “Ishaan is a wonderful boy. He is extremely talented and I feel, he will have a bright future in the film industry.”

All the best, Ishaan!

Don't Miss 724 SHARES 42.3 K SHARES 25.7 K SHARES 35.2 K SHARES 18.2 K SHARES