Why Theaster Gates took an ax to his own painting at the NGA

Last week, at the National Gallery of Art, Theaster Gates took an ax to one of his own paintings. The end result — a glossy black canvas with a gaping wound at its center — is part of a collection of the artist’s new works called “ The Minor Arts ,” which opened on Sunday. The hacked piece, called “Flat Bush,” isn’t meant to convey destruction or violence, Gates says. Rather, it came out of his fascination with laborers’ skills, such as swinging an ax with precision. In fact, Gates’ preoccupation with transforming humble trades and materials into fine art ties together all 10 pieces in the show, which includes a huge “painting” made of a recycled gym floor, a massive wall of hand-cut slate tiles and several paintings made from roofing tar. Gates, 43, first learned how to manipulate tar from his father, who was a roofer. “Working with my dad was essentially my MFA,” the Chicago native says. “I thought, ‘Is it possible for roofing to act as my principle subject instead of having a muse that is, like, a woman or a dude? Could I reflect on roofing and through roofing channel all of my sculptural ambition and all of my painterly ambition?’ ” Once he realized roofing could be so inspiring, he figured, why not flooring too? For a piece called “A Game of My Own,” Gates used planks of wood reclaimed from the gymnasium floor of a demolished Detroit high school. The Rothko-esque piece symbolizes how underprivileged kids have a shrinking number of places to play, Gates says. The scrambled basketball court markings in the planks of wood echo the disappearance of the structure and rules that governed the lives of the children who once played there, the artist adds. “As much as I’m invested in color field painting, I’m also invested in the fact that black schools are closing on the South Side [of Chicago], that poor schools are closing all over the country, including in D.C.,” Gates says. Art isn’t the only way Gates addresses the issues that matter to him. His Chicago-based nonprofit Rebuild Foundation has been buying up dilapidated South Side buildings and transforming them into affordable housing, art studios and community spaces. “Artists are a part of the league of people who should be thinking about the things that are happening outside in the real world,” Gates says. The two halves of his life fit together nicely, he adds. “The work that I do in the museum … functions as symbolic or sketch work for the things [I do] that go back into the world.” A case in point: A piece in the exhibit, “New Egypt Sanctuary of the Holy Word and Image,” consists primarily of several tall bookshelves laden with about 13,000 back issues of Ebony magazine. When Gates first came upon the massive, semi-forgotten stash of magazines, they were scattered and out of order. So he and his assistants organized them by decade, had them professionally bound and built a temple preserving the magazine’s coverage of African-American culture over the past 70 years. “Taking urban messes that are too great in number and too costly to deal with is something seemingly the United States is not good at,” Gates says. “And so I often feel like these small projects are also stand-ins for other kinds of human experiences, where what’s required is just a deep investment in things and people.” Theaster Gates turns art-world colonialism on its head Someone already broke one of the pumpkins in an ‘Infinity Mirror’ room This exhibit is going to blow up your Instagram feed — and rewrite art history



Theaster Gates turned an old high school gym floor into this enormous “painting.” (Photos courtesy NGA)

Last week, at the National Gallery of Art, Theaster Gates took an ax to one of his own paintings. The end result — a glossy black canvas with a gaping wound at its center — is part of a collection of the artist’s new works called “The Minor Arts,” which opened on Sunday.

The hacked piece, called “Flat Bush,” isn’t meant to convey destruction or violence, Gates says. Rather, it came out of his fascination with laborers’ skills, such as swinging an ax with precision. In fact, Gates’ preoccupation with transforming humble trades and materials into fine art ties together all 10 pieces in the show, which includes a huge “painting” made of a recycled gym floor, a massive wall of hand-cut slate tiles and several paintings made from roofing tar.

Gates, 43, first learned how to manipulate tar from his father, who was a roofer. “Working with my dad was essentially my MFA,” the Chicago native says. “I thought, ‘Is it possible for roofing to act as my principle subject instead of having a muse that is, like, a woman or a dude? Could I reflect on roofing and through roofing channel all of my sculptural ambition and all of my painterly ambition?’ ”

Once he realized roofing could be so inspiring, he figured, why not flooring too? For a piece called “A Game of My Own,” Gates used planks of wood reclaimed from the gymnasium floor of a demolished Detroit high school. The Rothko-esque piece symbolizes how underprivileged kids have a shrinking number of places to play, Gates says. The scrambled basketball court markings in the planks of wood echo the disappearance of the structure and rules that governed the lives of the children who once played there, the artist adds.

“As much as I’m invested in color field painting, I’m also invested in the fact that black schools are closing on the South Side [of Chicago], that poor schools are closing all over the country, including in D.C.,” Gates says.

Art isn’t the only way Gates addresses the issues that matter to him. His Chicago-based nonprofit Rebuild Foundation has been buying up dilapidated South Side buildings and transforming them into affordable housing, art studios and community spaces.

“Artists are a part of the league of people who should be thinking about the things that are happening outside in the real world,” Gates says. The two halves of his life fit together nicely, he adds. “The work that I do in the museum … functions as symbolic or sketch work for the things [I do] that go back into the world.”

A case in point: A piece in the exhibit, “New Egypt Sanctuary of the Holy Word and Image,” consists primarily of several tall bookshelves laden with about 13,000 back issues of Ebony magazine. When Gates first came upon the massive, semi-forgotten stash of magazines, they were scattered and out of order. So he and his assistants organized them by decade, had them professionally bound and built a temple preserving the magazine’s coverage of African-American culture over the past 70 years.

“Taking urban messes that are too great in number and too costly to deal with is something seemingly the United States is not good at,” Gates says. “And so I often feel like these small projects are also stand-ins for other kinds of human experiences, where what’s required is just a deep investment in things and people.”

More arts stories

Theaster Gates turns art-world colonialism on its head

Someone already broke one of the pumpkins in an ‘Infinity Mirror’ room

This exhibit is going to blow up your Instagram feed — and rewrite art history