Elmo is super desperate to meet Adele and he's telling anyone who'll listen
Elmo is super desperate to meet Adele and he's telling anyone who'll listen
Elmo really, really wants to meet you, Adele. Both the singer and the monster toddler are in Australia at the moment: Adele has been tearing up in her nationwide tour, while Elmo is helping promote 47th year on the air. Despite the Sesame Street's many recent big time guests like Sia, Jason Derulo and James Corden, Elmo is desperate to hang out with the English singer-songwriter. So much so, that he made a public plea on TV. SEE ALSO: Let Cookie Monster teach you about the illustrious true history of cookies "Adele! Elmo loves you with all of Elmo's heart. Elmo wants to sing "Rolling In The Deep" with you, wherever you are. Elmo will fly there. Call Elmo! Thank you," he said down the camera on Wednesday. Then he launched into his own version of "Rolling In The Deep." Perhaps a duet is on the cards. Not content to leave it at that, Elmo sent follow-up tweets on Thursday morning. Hello Miss @Adele , it's me, Elmo! — Elmo (@elmo) March 8, 2017 Miss @Adele , Elmo's been wondering if after all these years you'd like to meet? (We're both in Australia!) — Elmo (@elmo) March 8, 2017 So Adele, wherever you are. Won't you hang out with Elmo? WATCH: Japan’s latest trend? A spamusement park

Elmo really, really wants to meet you, Adele.

Both the singer and the monster toddler are in Australia at the moment: Adele has been tearing up in her nationwide tour, while Elmo is helping promote Sesame Street's 47th year on the air.

Despite the Sesame Street's many recent big time guests like Sia, Jason Derulo and James Corden, Elmo is desperate to hang out with the English singer-songwriter. So much so, that he made a public plea on TV.

SEE ALSO: Let Cookie Monster teach you about the illustrious true history of cookies

"Adele! Elmo loves you with all of Elmo's heart. Elmo wants to sing "Rolling In The Deep" with you, wherever you are. Elmo will fly there. Call Elmo! Thank you," he said down the camera on The Project Wednesday.

Then he launched into his own version of "Rolling In The Deep." Perhaps a duet is on the cards.

Not content to leave it at that, Elmo sent follow-up tweets on Thursday morning.

Miss @Adele, Elmo's been wondering if after all these years you'd like to meet? (We're both in Australia!) — Elmo (@elmo) March 8, 2017

So Adele, wherever you are. Won't you hang out with Elmo?