Cops: Nashville man put mom's dog in trash compactor
Cops: Nashville man put mom's dog in trash compactor
Terrence J. Clark                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Police have arrested a Nashville man for allegedly putting his mother’s dog in an apartment complex trash compactor last month, CBS affiliate WTVF reports .  The Shih Tzu later died. Police say surveillance video shows Terrence J. Clark, 27, pull up in a car on Feb. 21, remove the dog from the back seat, put the dog in a plastic grocery bag, and then place it in the trash compactor. The video then shows Clark allegedly pushing the compactor button four times before returning to his car and driving away. Someone heard the dog whimpering and barking from inside the compactor and called the Nashville Fire Department. Firefighters responded to the complex and rescued it. The dog was rushed to a veterinarian, but died four days later. The investigation showed the dog belonged to Clark’s mother. Clark was charged Tuesday afternoon with aggravated animal cruelty and jailed in lieu of $65,000 bond.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- Police have arrested a Nashville man for allegedly putting his mother’s dog in an apartment complex trash compactor last month, CBS affiliate WTVF reports. The Shih Tzu later died.

Police say surveillance video shows Terrence J. Clark, 27, pull up in a car on Feb. 21, remove the dog from the back seat, put the dog in a plastic grocery bag, and then place it in the trash compactor.

The video then shows Clark allegedly pushing the compactor button four times before returning to his car and driving away.

Someone heard the dog whimpering and barking from inside the compactor and called the Nashville Fire Department. Firefighters responded to the complex and rescued it.

The dog was rushed to a veterinarian, but died four days later. The investigation showed the dog belonged to Clark’s mother.

Clark was charged Tuesday afternoon with aggravated animal cruelty and jailed in lieu of $65,000 bond.