When Great Isn't Good Enough: 6 Essentials To Stand Out In The MBA Applicant Pool
When Great Isn't Good Enough: 6 Essentials To Stand Out In The MBA Applicant Pool
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Matt Symonds       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A snapshot of the lucky few at HBS. DJ Khaled may stand out in the applicant pool, but would you? (Photo by Scott Eisen/Getty Images for Get Schooled Foundation) Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Have you put in long hours at work to meet client deadlines and keep the boss happy? Clocked up many late nights at college to maintain your position on the Dean’s List? Aced your job interviews and landed yourself a position at a blue-chip bank, consulting firm or tech giant? Wrestled with data sufficiency and critical reasoning on the GMAT to make sure you achieved that 730+ score?

Congratulations. Your dedication and achievements are commendable. Sadly, though, they may not be enough to secure your place in one of the world’s top MBA programs. Why not? Because while you were working hard to be your best, so was everyone else. And while excellence is a prerequisite for all top business schools, admissions committees are also charged with building a diverse class.

Last year, nearly 60% of all HBS applicants were bankers, consultants or software engineers. If you’re counting, that’s 5,500 applications from the three most overrepresented professional profiles in the pool, competing with the rest to be among the 12% of applicants who is admitted. Across the country, Stanford GSB last year had only 417 places for a total of 8,116 applicants. Of the lucky few in the incoming class, they came from 312 organizations, including investment management, consulting, technology, NGOs, government, education, military, and other sectors. Which means that among the hundreds of talented applicants from Goldman, BCG or Google, the school was selecting the best of the best of the best, in very small numbers.

Schools with smaller cohorts such as UC Berkeley Haas and Dartmouth Tuck present no less of a challenge. With only 250 to 285 students, how many offers can they extend to McKinsey consultants, no matter how qualified? (Answer: not many).

And what about that competitive GMAT score of yours? A 700 means that 89% of test takers have lower scores, which sounds encouraging. But the average GMAT score at the M7 schools is 728, with a range from 717 at Columbia to an eye-watering 737 at Stanford. Applying to the top schools with a 730 is no guarantee of securing your place, but score much lower and there are plenty of other young professionals with comparable experience for the schools to choose from.

Over 80% of the applicant pool at Harvard, Stanford, Wharton, INSEAD and other top schools are fully qualified to attend. But only a very small percentage get the chance. So how do you stand out in the MBA applicant pool?

Think of it this way: your excellence is your ticket to play. Once you’re in the game, you win by showing your difference.

My colleagues at Fortuna Admissions will be sharing their MBA admissions experience with business school applicants at the CentreCourt MBA Festival. Ahead of the events, Judith Silverman Hodara (former Wharton Director of Admissions), Caroline Diarte Edwards (former INSEAD Director of Admissions) and Cassandra Pittman (Columbia Business School alumna and former Admissions Officer at LBS) have shared six tips to stand out in a sea of excellence.