Centrelink debt-recovery 'compounding' Tasmanian financial pain, TasCOSS says



Centrelink debt-recovery 'compounding' Tasmanian financial pain, TasCOSS says

Posted

Tasmanian charities are struggling to meet demand, and the Centrelink debt-recovery program is getting some of the blame.

The Tasmanian Council of Social Service (TasCOSS) said Centrelink's controversial debt recovery program was adding to families' financial stress.

TasCOSS chief executive Kym Goodes said some people could not afford to make repayments on their debts to Centrelink.

"We think that there is a compounding impact based on Centrelink debt recovery," she said.

"For some families, having small amounts deducted from their Centrelink payments, when you're already only living on $36 a day, this can be a really, really damaging impact on your family budget."

The Launceston Community Legal Centre said four times as many people were enquiring about Centrelink debts compared with the same time last year.

The centre's welfare rights advocate, Emma Smith, said many people were struggling to pay large power bills and car registration because Centrelink would not give advance payments to people who owe the Government money.

"This has just now pushed them into severe financial hardship, so of course the flow-on effect then is you can't pay rent, can't put food on the table, can't pay school fees," she said.

Demand for help depleting supplies: charities

Tasmanian charities say they are struggling to keep up with a sustained rise in demand for emergency food relief.

The Launceston City Mission experienced the highest ever demand for emergency relief in the lead up to Christmas and said it was yet to abate.

Operations manager Ray Green said the charity urgently needed donations of cash and non-perishable food items.

"I reckon we would be very lucky to make it through to our next food drive, which is in winter, so we've probably got enough food here to last us for the next month or two," he said.

"So we're in a pretty desperate situation."

There has also been a 60 per cent increase in statewide demand for the services of Foodbank.

Foodbank chief executive Edward Gauden said many people needed hygiene products and other everyday essentials.

"Toothpaste, basically toilet paper, anything to help them to get to the next day," he said.

Mr Gauden said he believed the increasingly uncertain job market was fuelling some of the demand.

"These are people who had jobs that may have been well paid, but they may have now been cut back in hours, or to the worst they might not have that work at all," he said.

"And those people now are struggling to support their families."

Charities are also blaming rising utilities bills, a reduction in some welfare payments, a lack of affordable housing and relationship breakdowns.

In a statement, the Department of Human Services general manager, Hank Jongen, said help was available for people experiencing hardship, and Centrelink debts would not affect people's credit ratings.

Mr Jongen said Centrelink could work with people to set up affordable repayment plans and in some cases debt recovery could be deferred.

Topics: poverty, community-and-society, tas