Researchers reveal the three types of online porn user
Researchers reveal the three types of online porn user


More than 4.6 billion hours of online pornography was watched on Pornhub alone last year, accounting for 12.5 videos for every person on Earth.

But now, researchers have revealed that not all porn viewers are alike.

They found users fall into three categories, which includes recreational, distressed or compulsive - and even created tests to find out which group people are part of.

Scroll down for videos and to take the test

Following a survey, researchers have revealed that users fall into three categories, which includes recreational, distressed or compulsive. Only recreational profile is considered healthy, as the other two experienced emotional stress from watching porn

THE THREE TYPES OF PORN USER Recreational: Watched an average of 24 minutes a week. This group scored low with compulsivity, intensity of efforts to access pornography, and emotional distress associated with consumption. And it was mostly women and people in relationships. It was also found that, compared to the other groups, those who fall into recreational reported higher sexual satisfaction and lower levels of sexual compulsivity, avoidance and dysfunction. Distressed: Watched an average of 17 minutes a week. However, watching pornographic content was found to cause these individuals emotional stress - they feel more shame, self-disgust and self-punishment after watching pornography. Compulsive: Watched an average of 110 minutes a week and was mostly men. This groups' behavior may be a result of compulsive sexuality that includes avoidance of sexual interactions with a partner.

However, only the recreational profile is considered healthy, as porn was found to create emotional problems for the other groups.

The study was conducted by the Université Laval in Quebec, which examined whether there are different profiles of pornography users and if they play a role in specific sexual outcomes.

‘The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis of distinct profiles of cyberpornography users using three dimensions of personal reactions toward viewing sexually explicit videos or images on the internet: compulsivity, intensity of efforts to access pornography, and emotional distress associated with consumption,’ researchers wrote in the study in the Journal of Sexual Medicine.

During this investigation, the team surveyed 830 participants from the university, web classifieds and social media sites, reports NY Magazine.

Approximately 71.8 percent of the subjects were women and 28.2 percent were men.

A majority of those sampled self-identified as heterosexual (81.8 percent), however there was a small group (5.8 percent) that identified as homosexual and 11.6 percent of the participants were bisexual.

The team also asked those in committed relationships, those were dating and single individuals to participate in the study.

The Cyber Pornography Use Inventor was used to assess the three different profiles, which uses a true/false system.

It lists statements like ‘I believe I am addicted to internet pornography’, ‘After viewing pornography online, I clear my browser’s history and ‘I fear that someone might someday discover my secret viewing of online pornography’.

Other quizzes were also given that looked at a person’s overall sexual satisfaction, their tendency to avoid sex, sexual dysfunction,and a three-part porn-use scale.

And other tests were also passed around that looked at the three dimensions of pornography use – compulsivity, efforts to access and emotional distress.

Following the cluster analysis, researchers found that 75 percent of participants were designated as a recreational profile.

WHAT TYPE OF PORN USER ARE YOU? TAKE THE TEST Researchers instructed subjects to take the Cyber Pornography Use Inventory to determine their pornography use and how it may affect them emotionally and mentally. The survey is a true or false setup and can accessed here. 1. Within the past six months I have intentionally viewed Internet pornography. 2. Pornography has sometimes interfered with certain aspects of my life. 3. I sometimes use pornography as a reward for accomplishing something (e.g., finish a project, stressful day, etc.) 4. I see no purpose in viewing online pornography. 5. I have made promises to myself to stop using the Internet for pornography. 6. When I am unable to access pornography online, I feel anxious, angry, or disappointed. I do not access pornography online 7. It is easy for me to turn down the chance to view online pornography. 8. I have punished myself when I use the Internet for pornography (e.g., time-out from computer, cancel Internet subscription, etc.) 9. Even when I do not want to view pornography online, I find myself drawn to it. 10. I feel unable to stop my use of online pornography. 11. I have no problem controlling my use of online pornography. 12. I believe I am addicted to Internet pornography. 13. I use sexual humor and innuendo with others while online. 14. I have participated in sexually related chats. 15. I have a sexualized username or nickname that I use on the Internet. 16. I have increased the risks I take online (give out name and phone number, meet people offline, etc.) 17. I have met face to face with someone I met online for romantic purposes. 18. I search for pornography through an Internet search tool. 19. I try to hide what is on my computer or monitor so others cannot see it. 20. I have stayed up after midnight to access pornography online. 21. I masturbate while looking at pornography on the Internet. 22. I have some pornographic sites bookmarked. 23. I spend more than 5 hours per week using my computer for pornography. 24. I have rearranged my schedule so that I would be able to view pornography online without being disturbed. 25. At times, I try to arrange my schedule so that I will be able to be alone in my room to view pornography. 26. I have gotten up earlier or gone to bed later than my roommates to view pornography. 27. I have refused to go out with friends or attend certain social functions to have the opportunity to view pornography online. 28. I have put off studying or other important priorities to view pornography. 29. I am very uncomfortable when the subject of Internet pornography comes up. 30. The subject of Internet pornography does not make me uncomfortable. 31. After viewing pornography online, I clear my browser’s history. 32. I avoid situations in which my pornography usage could be exposed or confronted. 33. I fear that someone might someday discover my secret of viewing online pornography. 34. Viewing pornography online does not bother me. 35. I feel no negative emotions after viewing pornography online. 36. I feel ashamed after viewing pornography online. 37. I feel depressed after viewing pornography online. 38. I feel sick after viewing pornography online. 39. I feel good after viewing pornography online. 40. When I am unable to access pornography online I feel relieved that I did not sin.

This group had low scores on the three dimensions of pornography use and viewed porn an average of 24 minutes in a week – women and those in a relationship fell mostly in this group.

The team concluded that this group 'might promote an active and open sexuality or, at the very least, not compromise general sexual well-being'.

It was also found that, compared to the other groups, recreational users reported higher sexual satisfaction and lower levels of sexual compulsivity, avoidance and dysfunction.

'This is consistent with past findings identifying a non-compulsive or non-problematic and those reporting positive or neutral sexual outcomes of pornography use,' reads the study.

The other two groups, distressed and compulsive, reported feeling emotional stress after watching explicit content. While recreational users had higher sexual satisfaction and lower levels of sexual compulsivity, avoidance and dysfunction

Approximately 12.7 percent of the subjects were deemed ‘highly distressed non-compulsive’ viewers, which scored low ‘on compulsivity to pornography and intensity of efforts to access pornography but high scores on emotional distress associated with pornography use’.

This group watched an average of 17 minutes per week and it was found to create a lot of emotional stress for the individual.

These findings have suggested that these individuals may feel shame, self-disgust and self-punishment after watching pornography.

And the last type of porn users, compulsive, included 11.8 percent of the sample.

This group ‘was characterized by high scores on compulsivity to pornography and intensity of efforts to access pornography and moderate scores on emotional distress associated with pornography use’.

‘The compulsive profile consisted of a larger proportion of men who spent the most time using pornography (ie, mean ¼ 110 minutes weekly),’ researches shared in the study.

‘They reported the highest level of compulsivity to pornography, intensity of efforts to access sexual material, and higher emotional distress associated with pornography use.’