I Should Have Been More Careful, Says Randeep Hooda On Gurmehar Kaur Fiasco
I Should Have Been More Careful, Says Randeep Hooda On Gurmehar Kaur Trolling!
I Should Have Been More Careful, Says Randeep Hooda On Gurmehar Kaur Fiasco No one knew what a classic case of Internet troll could be like till Lady Sri Ram College student and daughter of army martyr Captain Mandeep Singh, Gurmehar Kaur faced it. Kaur had launched a viral social media campaign against Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) the BJP's student wing but little did she know the repercussions. The reactions on Twitter and FB started becoming a mass movement of it's own. Joining the bandwagon were ex-cricketer Virender Sehwag and Bollywood actor Randeep Hooda, who mocked her and called her a political pawn. (Also read: Not What We Expected, Virender Sehwag And Randeep Hooda Join Trolls Against DU's Gurmehar Kaur) Both Sehwag and Hooda eventually received a lot of flak for their reactions. Several days after the controversy, actor Randeep Hooda opens up about the issue and confessed that he should have been careful with his tweet relating to Delhi University student Gurmehar Kaur. Clarifying his tweet, he said, Stlyish, subtle and minimalistic, platinum resonates with my personal style philosophy. Loved the pure platinum collection for men’s. A true mark of the discerning man. A post shared by Randeep Hooda (@randeephooda) on Nov 18, 2016 at 2:19am PST   "It wasn't gender specific. I was and I am against politicisation of personal opinions. There was an axe to grind and considering the environment in the country vis-a-vis women, in hindsight, I do believe I should have been more careful." Hooda said being an actor, he is often trolled on social media but for Kaur, it must have been traumatic. Waiting to be picked for OMDC celebrate Toronto red carpet event #beebaboys #torontodiaries #tiff A post shared by Randeep Hooda (@randeephooda) on Sep 11, 2015 at 3:56pm PDT   "As an actor I have faced this (trolling) before and will have it in future but as a young person to face this would be very traumatic and she shouldn't have gone through this." Hooda also clarified that he was not at all aware of any threats which were given to Kaur when he tweeted. Infact, people started labelling  him as a bully. He spoke on that as well, "I don't know what the authorities are doing. But by that time the narrative was set. I was labelled, put in a box. I have been labelled before." Talking about online trolling and how it has become a huge issue and needed to be addressed soon, he added, Sunday styling with #MyFirstColeHaan sneakers. These new 2.ZEROGRAND shoes are a feat of engineering & craftsmanship. This is what the future feels #ColeHaanIndia #ElegantInnovation A post shared by Randeep Hooda (@randeephooda) on Aug 28, 2016 at 12:31am PDT

No one knew what a classic case of Internet troll could be like till Lady Sri Ram College student and daughter of army martyr Captain Mandeep Singh, Gurmehar Kaur faced it.

Kaur had launched a viral social media campaign against Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) the BJP's student wing but little did she know the repercussions.

The reactions on Twitter and FB started becoming a mass movement of it's own. Joining the bandwagon were ex-cricketer Virender Sehwag and Bollywood actor Randeep Hooda, who mocked her and called her a political pawn.

(Also read: Not What We Expected, Virender Sehwag And Randeep Hooda Join Trolls Against DU's Gurmehar Kaur)

FB/Gurmehar Kaur (This Facebook post is no longer available. It may have been removed or the privacy settings of the post may have changed.)

Both Sehwag and Hooda eventually received a lot of flak for their reactions. Several days after the controversy, actor Randeep Hooda opens up about the issue and confessed that he should have been careful with his tweet relating to Delhi University student Gurmehar Kaur.

Clarifying his tweet, he said,

Stlyish, subtle and minimalistic, platinum resonates with my personal style philosophy. Loved the pure platinum collection for men’s. A true mark of the discerning man. A post shared by Randeep Hooda (@randeephooda) on Nov 18, 2016 at 2:19am PST

"It wasn't gender specific. I was and I am against politicisation of personal opinions. There was an axe to grind and considering the environment in the country vis-a-vis women, in hindsight, I do believe I should have been more careful."

Hooda said being an actor, he is often trolled on social media but for Kaur, it must have been traumatic.

Waiting to be picked for OMDC celebrate Toronto red carpet event #beebaboys #torontodiaries #tiff A post shared by Randeep Hooda (@randeephooda) on Sep 11, 2015 at 3:56pm PDT

"As an actor I have faced this (trolling) before and will have it in future but as a young person to face this would be very traumatic and she shouldn't have gone through this."

Hooda also clarified that he was not at all aware of any threats which were given to Kaur when he tweeted. Infact, people started labelling him as a bully. He spoke on that as well,

"I don't know what the authorities are doing. But by that time the narrative was set. I was labelled, put in a box. I have been labelled before."

Talking about online trolling and how it has become a huge issue and needed to be addressed soon, he added,

Sunday styling with #MyFirstColeHaan sneakers. These new 2.ZEROGRAND shoes are a feat of engineering & craftsmanship. This is what the future feels #ColeHaanIndia #ElegantInnovation A post shared by Randeep Hooda (@randeephooda) on Aug 28, 2016 at 12:31am PDT

Don't Miss 2.2 K SHARES 1.9 K SHARES 46.3 K SHARES 25.9 K SHARES 18.8 K SHARES

"When I spoke for Sanjay Leela Bhansali, I got trolled. It seems we are not having a conversation. We tend to be abusive. We are trolling people. It is absolutely wrong. You can have a point of view and you can disagree. Whether it is a man or a woman, it is wrong to troll and if it is a woman it is a crime. You cannot threaten a woman with violence on social media. That has to be addressed. Social media portal heads in India should look into it very seriously because it is becoming a bigger issue."

It was only later that Hooda realized the issue had snowballed into a huge controversy.

"I said do not politicise this poor girl's point of view. And then those two words were taken: For using 'poor', they said you are a misogynist and for using 'girl's, they said sexist, and I said, 'If it were a boy, I would have said the same things."

(With PTI inputs)