Ashleigh Watterson's lawyers accuse doctor of dismissing 5-month-old baby who died



Ashleigh Watterson's lawyers accuse doctor of dismissing 5-month-old baby who died

Posted

Lawyers acting for a woman charged with the attempted murder of her infant daughter have attacked the medical care the baby received.

Key points: Watterson's alleged assaults left baby, who died in 2012, with brain damage

Watterson confessed to police she was guilty, saying "devil attacked and made me do things"

Doctor said baby appeared to be normal under examination, had no trouble breathing

Ashleigh Watterson, 29, has pleaded not guilty to charges she twice tried to kill Sarah Watterson by smothering her in October 2010, and again a month later.

The alleged assaults left the then five-month-old baby with brain damage. The child died in 2012.

After being charged, Watterson later confessed to police she was guilty, saying "the devil attacked and made me do things".

Her defence counsel is arguing the admissions were made as a result of a disordered mind.

The baby's father, Mark Watterson, on Thursday told the court his former wife was loving and "spent an enormous amount of time and energy devoted to Sarah's care".

The court also heard evidence from two doctors.

General practitioner Robbani Mihrshahi reviewed baby Sarah after she had been discharged from Redcliffe Hospital on October 18, 2010.

Dr Mihrshahi told the court she believed the baby was breathing very slowly and stopped on three occasions.

She referred her to the Royal Children's Hospital where she was admitted overnight for observation.

Leisha Callaghan said the baby appeared to be completely normal when she examined her the following day and had no trouble breathing.

Dr Callaghan said the GP's diagnosis was questionable.

Under cross-examination by the defence, Dr Callaghan denied she was dismissive of Watterson's concerns, but described her as being anxious.

"She had previously lost a baby to SIDS, so we thought it was more related to mental health issues," Dr Callaghan said.

The next time she saw the Wattersons was the following month, after the infant had suffered a cardiac arrest and brain damage.

On that occasion, the family requested another paediatric doctor take over the child's care.

Topics: death, doctors-and-medical-professionals, health, law-crime-and-justice, qld