Amazon best-seller 'Reasons to Vote for Democrats' book is just empty pages
Amazon best-seller 'Reasons to Vote for Democrats' book is just empty pages
Democrats Amazon best-seller 'Reasons to Vote for Democrats' book is just empty pages By    To quote an excerpt from author Michael J. Knowles’ new book, the main reason to vote for a Democrat is “          .” The above is not a typo. Knowles’ tome, “Reasons to Vote for Democrats: A Comprehensive Guide,” is 266 pages of absolutely nothing. Clean, blank, snow-white pages. And as of Thursday morning, it occupied the No. 4 slot on Amazon.com's "Best Sellers" list. “What’s really great about this book, you can go cover-to-cover in about 15, 20 seconds,” Knowles’ told “ Fox & Friends ” on Thursday. Billed as “the most exhaustively researched and coherently argued Democrat Party apologia to date,” the spoof book was Knowles' attempt to razz the party for a lack of direction. The conservative journalist released it last month and the book was listed at $9.99 on Amazon -- but you can pick up a paperback on sale for $7.08. The project does, curiously, contain an extensive bibliography and a table of contents. But nothing else. “It took a very long time to research this book,” Knowles said Thursday. “I’ve been observing the Democratic Party for at least 10 years now and when I observed their record and reasons to vote for them – on reasons of economics or foreign policy or homeland security or civil rights and so on – I realized it was probably best to just leave all the pages blank.” A chapter on civil rights? Blank. Values? Nothing there. “When I started researching the book and going through this exhaustive study process, at first I turned to the 2012 Democratic National Convention, and it turned out they were deciding whether or not to include God in their party platform,” Knowles said. “And the Democrats booed God. That’s not good. So I decided probably if I’m going to make a good case to vote for Democrats, probably just leave that chapter blank.” Or maybe the pages are just supposed to be filled with the thoughts in the reader's head? John Cage would like that .

To quote an excerpt from author Michael J. Knowles’ new book, the main reason to vote for a Democrat is “ .”

The above is not a typo.

Knowles’ tome, “Reasons to Vote for Democrats: A Comprehensive Guide,” is 266 pages of absolutely nothing. Clean, blank, snow-white pages. And as of Thursday morning, it occupied the No. 4 slot on Amazon.com's "Best Sellers" list.

“What’s really great about this book, you can go cover-to-cover in about 15, 20 seconds,” Knowles’ told “Fox & Friends” on Thursday.

Billed as “the most exhaustively researched and coherently argued Democrat Party apologia to date,” the spoof book was Knowles' attempt to razz the party for a lack of direction. The conservative journalist released it last month and the book was listed at $9.99 on Amazon -- but you can pick up a paperback on sale for $7.08.

The project does, curiously, contain an extensive bibliography and a table of contents. But nothing else.

“It took a very long time to research this book,” Knowles said Thursday. “I’ve been observing the Democratic Party for at least 10 years now and when I observed their record and reasons to vote for them – on reasons of economics or foreign policy or homeland security or civil rights and so on – I realized it was probably best to just leave all the pages blank.”

A chapter on civil rights? Blank. Values? Nothing there.

“When I started researching the book and going through this exhaustive study process, at first I turned to the 2012 Democratic National Convention, and it turned out they were deciding whether or not to include God in their party platform,” Knowles said. “And the Democrats booed God. That’s not good. So I decided probably if I’m going to make a good case to vote for Democrats, probably just leave that chapter blank.”

Or maybe the pages are just supposed to be filled with the thoughts in the reader's head? John Cage would like that.