Two-Thirds Of Adults Say They Would Boycott A Brand Over Social Issues
Two-Thirds Of Adults Say They Would Boycott A Brand Over Social Issues
About 60% of American adults say they would boycott a brand due to conflicting political views and 67% support brand boycotts if a company takes an opposing stance on a social issue, according to a new poll . The YouGov poll found 59% of US adults are willing to boycott a brand if its view on a political issue conflicted with their own. Such boycotts have become highly visible in recent months — people pledged to avoid Starbucks after the company announced a plan to hire refugees, while others have refused to buy Trump brand products, or buy from anyone who advertises on far-right websites . American adults also reported becoming more politically engaged between November 2016 and February 2017, according to YouGov’s poll. It found 31% increased their level of support for a particular cause during that period, with immigration, women’s rights and diversity and inclusion as some of the top issues gained traction.  Younger people are responsible for much these changes, according to the poll. Only 27% of adults over 55 years old said they approve of brands taking a public stance on social issues, but half of all millennials said they approve of brands taking such stances. 3.  #DeleteUber Started Trending After A Taxi Strike Against Trump’s Refugee Ban  buzzfeed.com 4.  Corporate America’s Political Gray Zone Is Disappearing  buzzfeed.com 5.  The Battle Between Uber And Lyft Has Become Political  buzzfeed.com 6.  Nordstrom Has Dropped Ivanka Trump’s Brand, Citing Lagging Sales  buzzfeed.com 7.  Women Are Boycotting Ivanka Trump’s Clothing Brand To Protest Her Dad’s Comments  buzzfeed.com 8.  Trump Supporters Are Boycotting Starbucks Over Its Plan To Hire Refugees  buzzfeed.com   This 1970 Explanation Of How Many Women Are Lesbians...    This Gay Couple Are Worried Trump's Refugee And Immigration...

AP/Steven Senne ID: 10667302

About 60% of American adults say they would boycott a brand due to conflicting political views and 67% support brand boycotts if a company takes an opposing stance on a social issue, according to a new poll.

The YouGov poll found 59% of US adults are willing to boycott a brand if its view on a political issue conflicted with their own. Such boycotts have become highly visible in recent months — people pledged to avoid Starbucks after the company announced a plan to hire refugees, while others have refused to buy Trump brand products, or buy from anyone who advertises on far-right websites.

American adults also reported becoming more politically engaged between November 2016 and February 2017, according to YouGov’s poll.

It found 31% increased their level of support for a particular cause during that period, with immigration, women’s rights and diversity and inclusion as some of the top issues gained traction.

YouGov / Via today.yougov.com ID: 10667337

Younger people are responsible for much these changes, according to the poll. Only 27% of adults over 55 years old said they approve of brands taking a public stance on social issues, but half of all millennials said they approve of brands taking such stances.

5. The Battle Between Uber And Lyft Has Become Political buzzfeed.com ID: 10667356

8. Trump Supporters Are Boycotting Starbucks Over Its Plan To Hire Refugees buzzfeed.com ID: 10667364



