Andrew Whitworth Agrees to Reported 3-Year, $36 Million Contract with Rams
Andrew Whitworth Agrees to Reported 3-Year, $36 Million Contract with Rams
The Los Angeles Rams have shored up their offensive line with the addition of free-agent offensive tackle Andrew Whitworth. SportsTrust Advisors announced Whitworth had agreed to the framework of a deal with the Rams. Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported the deal is for three years and $36 million with $15 of that guaranteed. Whitworth has been one of the most consistent offensive linemen in the NFL over the past decade. The 2006 second-round pick quickly made his way into the starting lineup for the Cincinnati Bengals and has barely moved during his 11-year career. The tackle hasn't missed a game for three straight seasons and has only two missed games in the last eight years. Despite being 35 years old, Whitworth is still more than capable of playing at a high level. He finished the 2015 season with a Pro Bowl appearance while being named first-team All-Pro. He remained solid in 2016 despite an otherwise disappointing season for the Bengals. Nathan Jahnke of Pro Football Focus noted his impressive work in the passing game: For the 6th time this season, Bengals LT Andrew Whitworth didn't allow a pressure all game long. While Whitworth stated his intention to stay in Cincinnati at the end of the season, via Laurel Pfahler of Cox Media Group, he will now move away from the only NFL team he has known. This creates a sizable hole for the Bengals to fill before next season, while the Rams added someone who can make an immediate impact on the offensive side of the ball, helping clear holes for Todd Gurley and keeping quarterback Jared Goff upright. After seeing what the Dallas Cowboys and Oakland Raiders were able to do this season with elite offensive lines, this signing could go a long way toward helping this squad improve in 2017. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

George Gojkovich/Getty Images

The Los Angeles Rams have shored up their offensive line with the addition of free-agent offensive tackle Andrew Whitworth.

SportsTrust Advisors announced Whitworth had agreed to the framework of a deal with the Rams. Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported the deal is for three years and $36 million with $15 of that guaranteed.

Whitworth has been one of the most consistent offensive linemen in the NFL over the past decade. The 2006 second-round pick quickly made his way into the starting lineup for the Cincinnati Bengals and has barely moved during his 11-year career.

The tackle hasn't missed a game for three straight seasons and has only two missed games in the last eight years.

Despite being 35 years old, Whitworth is still more than capable of playing at a high level. He finished the 2015 season with a Pro Bowl appearance while being named first-team All-Pro. He remained solid in 2016 despite an otherwise disappointing season for the Bengals.

Nathan Jahnke of Pro Football Focus noted his impressive work in the passing game:

While Whitworth stated his intention to stay in Cincinnati at the end of the season, via Laurel Pfahler of Cox Media Group, he will now move away from the only NFL team he has known.

This creates a sizable hole for the Bengals to fill before next season, while the Rams added someone who can make an immediate impact on the offensive side of the ball, helping clear holes for Todd Gurley and keeping quarterback Jared Goff upright.

After seeing what the Dallas Cowboys and Oakland Raiders were able to do this season with elite offensive lines, this signing could go a long way toward helping this squad improve in 2017.