Don't Pay Attention To Rumours, Shah Rukh Khan Did Not Offer PSL Champions A Chance To Play Kolkata Knight Riders!
Don't Pay Attention To Rumours, SRK Did Not Offer PSL Champions A Chance To Play KKR!
Don't Pay Attention To Rumours, Shah Rukh Khan Did Not Offer PSL Champions A Chance To Play Kolkata Knight Riders! Kolkata Knight Riders have categorically denied that they will play any series against Peshawar Zalmi, the Pakistan Super League champions. "There is absolutely no truth in it. We categorically deny this," KKR CEO Venky Mysore told India Today. "I just had a word with Shah Rukh and he told me that he has been so busy shooting these days that he didn't even know that any such league was happening in Pakistan or Dubai let alone calling any franchise owner and congratulating him on winning the tournament," Mysore added. This puts to rest all the reports which were circulating in the Pakistan media that Shah Rukh Khan had offered to play a series either in Dubai or London. It was reported that Zalmi owner Javed Afridi had said that SRK had congratulated him and proposed a series against KKR. Well, our neighbours clearly need to get their facts straight. So for those of you thinking we could see a battle of India and Pakistan via the leagues, calm down, it's not happening!

Kolkata Knight Riders have categorically denied that they will play any series against Peshawar Zalmi, the Pakistan Super League champions.

BCCI/AFP

"There is absolutely no truth in it. We categorically deny this," KKR CEO Venky Mysore told India Today.

"I just had a word with Shah Rukh and he told me that he has been so busy shooting these days that he didn't even know that any such league was happening in Pakistan or Dubai let alone calling any franchise owner and congratulating him on winning the tournament," Mysore added.

BCCI

This puts to rest all the reports which were circulating in the Pakistan media that Shah Rukh Khan had offered to play a series either in Dubai or London.

It was reported that Zalmi owner Javed Afridi had said that SRK had congratulated him and proposed a series against KKR.

BCCI

Well, our neighbours clearly need to get their facts straight. So for those of you thinking we could see a battle of India and Pakistan via the leagues, calm down, it's not happening!