The seven surprising things guests notice about your house
The seven surprising things guests notice about your house


There's few things that strike dread into the heart of any houseproud type than an uninvited guest.

But while you start fretting about the pile of dirty washing by the machine or the peeling paint in the hall when someone drops by unannounced, what are they really looking at?

Interiors website My Domaine has carried out a survey of its users to find out the most common things people notice when they visit someone else's house.

And unfortunately it's bad news for anyone who hopes that guests don't really pay attention to mess, as it's definitely on the list.

CLEANLINESS AND MESS

People do notice if your house is messy, according to research by My Domaine, and unfortunately many will judge you for it (stock image)

If you're feeling anxious about your mother-in-law catching sight of the pile of unwashed plates in the sink, it's bad news.

People admitted that they do take note of how clean, organised and tidy a home is when visiting other people.

Some revealed that they feel stressed out by a dirty house as it offends their inner neat freak.

The good news is that while everyone will definitely notice mess, some people see it in a more positive light and it makes them feel better about their own less-than-perfect homes.

BRIGHT WALLS

Red walls are a particular bugbear with visitors, so it's best to stick to a neutral shade if you want to give a good impression

Unless you've chosen white or neutral for your walls, a bright colour is bound to invoke a strong response.

SEVEN THINGS GUESTS NOTICE ABOUT YOUR HOME 1. Art and books 2. Light sources 3. Furniture arrangement 4. Scents 5. Messiness and clutter 6. Plants and greenery 7. Colour of the walls

Red and brown walls are particularly disliked by people but any garish shade is likely to provoke a strong opinion.

Stick to neutral shades if you want to give the best impression.

FURNITURE PLACEMENT

People admit that they often mentally rearrange the furniture in someone else's house if they're not happy with the layout.

They also feel jarred by things like pictures being hung too high or if the layout doesn't match from room to room.

LIGHT SOURCES

Some people admit that they pay little attention to fixtures and furniture, but the lighting is the first thing they will notice.

Natural light flooding a room is guaranteed to create a good impression, but if you need to fake it then the flicker of candles or soft spotlights will also look good.

However, lots of people aren't keen on harsh sources of artificial light such as glaring TV screens.

PLEASANT SCENTS

Keep your home smelling sweet with scented candles and diffusers, and you won't have to worry about impressing your guests

It seems there's something in the age old advice to have something delicious baking in the oven when you're trying to sell your home.

Guests reported reacting positively to nice scents, such as a luxury candle or diffuser.

But they are just as likely to pick up on bad smells and form a memory based on the negative.

HOUSE PLANTS

People tend to notice plants and flowers and react positively when they visit someone's home

Greenery around the house also got a big thumbs up from My Domaine's folllowers.

Flowers, greenery and plants tend to catch people's eyes, especially how much is visible from the exterior.

But this can quickly turn to a negative if your arrangement is wilted and tired looking.

ART AND BOOKS

Lots of people will notice what's hanging on your walls before anything else, so make sure it's art you're proud of

Any artwork you have hanging on the wall will capture people's attention, so it's crucial to give a good impression.

For example, one user said the first thing they notice in someone else's home is what's on the walls and what's on the shelves.

Many people pointed out that taste in art says a lot about the individual's personality, so it shouldn't be too generic.

Similarly, people reported being happy to see a well stocked bookcase with titles that say something about the homeowner.