Are Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez Dating?
Are Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez Dating?
The Jennifer Lopez and Drake dating rumors have finally died down after a couple of crazy months that saw people speculating about everything from their Instagram photos together to a $100,000 necklace that Drake reportedly bought for J. Lo. During a recent appearance on , J. Lo completely downplayed the romantic relationship that everyone thought they were having. But that doesn’t mean people are going to stop speculating about J. Lo’s love life. And on Wednesday night, the and started a new rumor. This one involves J. Lo dating none other than former Yankees star Alex Rodriguez . Oddly enough, a source who spoke with the claimed J. Lo and A-Rod have been seeing one another for about four months now, which, if true, casts doubt on the idea of J. Lo and Drake ever dating. A-Rod popped up backstage at one of J. Lo’s concerts in Las Vegas recently ( sound familiar? ), and while it doesn’t sound like things are serious between J. Lo and A-Rod just yet, they reportedly "see each other a few times a month," according to the . And if that isn’t enough proof for you, there’s also this: is reporting that J. Lo liked this photo A-Rod posted on Instagram just hours before news of their alleged relationship broke. I’m excited to continue working with the @FOXSports family. It’ll be great to get back on the set with the guys for the regular season and postseason, especially the All-Star Game in my hometown of Miami. (📸: @nytimes) A post shared by Alex Rodriguez (@arod) on Mar 8, 2017 at 7:08am PST "She seems excited," a source told . "He has been around her family and she really likes that he is a dad. She is aware, though, that he is a ladies’ man, too, and is being cautious. For now, it’s just fun. She is single and enjoys dating." While J. Lo has been linked to Drake in recent months, A-Rod was recently dating Silicon Valley CEO Anne Wojcicki before breaking things off in February. J. Lo and A-Rod have both refused to comment on the extent of their relationship thus far. But come on, didn’t we just tell you that she liked his IG photo? They definitely go together, right?

The Jennifer Lopez and Drake dating rumors have finally died down after a couple of crazy months that saw people speculating about everything from their Instagram photos together to a $100,000 necklace that Drake reportedly bought for J. Lo. During a recent appearance on Ellen, J. Lo completely downplayed the romantic relationship that everyone thought they were having.

But that doesn’t mean people are going to stop speculating about J. Lo’s love life. And on Wednesday night, the New York Post and New York Daily News started a new rumor. This one involves J. Lo dating none other than former Yankees star Alex Rodriguez.

Oddly enough, a source who spoke with the Daily News claimed J. Lo and A-Rod have been seeing one another for about four months now, which, if true, casts doubt on the idea of J. Lo and Drake ever dating. A-Rod popped up backstage at one of J. Lo’s concerts in Las Vegas recently (sound familiar?), and while it doesn’t sound like things are too serious between J. Lo and A-Rod just yet, they reportedly "see each other a few times a month," according to the Daily News.

And if that isn’t enough proof for you, there’s also this: People is reporting that J. Lo liked this photo A-Rod posted on Instagram just hours before news of their alleged relationship broke.

I’m excited to continue working with the @FOXSports family. It’ll be great to get back on the set with the guys for the regular season and postseason, especially the All-Star Game in my hometown of Miami. (📸: @nytimes) A post shared by Alex Rodriguez (@arod) on Mar 8, 2017 at 7:08am PST

"She seems excited," a source told People. "He has been around her family and she really likes that he is a dad. She is aware, though, that he is a ladies’ man, too, and is being cautious. For now, it’s just fun. She is single and enjoys dating."

While J. Lo has been linked to Drake in recent months, A-Rod was recently dating Silicon Valley CEO Anne Wojcicki before breaking things off in February. J. Lo and A-Rod have both refused to comment on the extent of their relationship thus far. But come on, didn’t we just tell you that she liked his IG photo? They definitely go together, right?