10 International Companies Offering Remote Jobs In 2017
10 International Companies Offering Remote Jobs In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Lately we’ve been hearing quite a bit about the rise of remote workers, flex-time workers, the Gig Economy” (a cooler way of saying “freelancers”) and an agile workforce. All together, these workers have sought to exert a bit more control over their professional lives by working where, when and how they want. Of professionals in these categories, some of the most free are the remote workers. Settled into positions that do not require their physical presence, they can hunker down and do their work just about anywhere they can find a reliable internet connection—home, at a café, at beach house in the Marquesas islands, perhaps. FlexJobs.com – an online hub for flexible and remote jobs and career information – recently compiled a list of ten international companies that filled a large number of remote jobs last year and are a safe bet to do so again in 2017. If you are in the market for remote work, you may want to take a look at the top 10, wrapped up in our slideshow below. 10 International Companies For Remote Jobs In 2017 At the top of the list we find Appen, a speech and language tech firm that offers services like linguistic analysis, transcription and other word and communication-type offerings.  Based in Chatswood, Australia, the company hired more remote workers in 2016 than any other internationally operating non-US company on FlexJobs’ radar. Another one to watch for remote jobs in 2017 is VIPKID, an English language learning service based in Beijing, China. Founded in 2013, the company deals in one-on-one teaching situations and was a prolific hirer of remote talent last year. If language teaching is your cup of tea, so might be VIPKID. Ranked third on FlexJobs’ list is Cactus Communications, based in Mumbai, India. According to FlexJobs, the company offers writing and editing services for “clients in the academic, pharmaceutical, and medical device sectors. With offices in the U.S. and across southeast Asia. It has processed more than 616,000 documents for clients in more than 16o countries. It also hires a lot of remote workers, which makes it one to watch. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Lately we’ve been hearing quite a bit about the rise of remote workers, flex-time workers, the Gig Economy” (a cooler way of saying “freelancers”) and an agile workforce. All together, these workers have sought to exert a bit more control over their professional lives by working where, when and how they want.

Of professionals in these categories, some of the most free are the remote workers. Settled into positions that do not require their physical presence, they can hunker down and do their work just about anywhere they can find a reliable internet connection—home, at a café, at beach house in the Marquesas islands, perhaps.

FlexJobs.com – an online hub for flexible and remote jobs and career information – recently compiled a list of ten international companies that filled a large number of remote jobs last year and are a safe bet to do so again in 2017. If you are in the market for remote work, you may want to take a look at the top 10, wrapped up in our slideshow below.

At the top of the list we find Appen, a speech and language tech firm that offers services like linguistic analysis, transcription and other word and communication-type offerings. Based in Chatswood, Australia, the company hired more remote workers in 2016 than any other internationally operating non-US company on FlexJobs’ radar.

Another one to watch for remote jobs in 2017 is VIPKID, an English language learning service based in Beijing, China. Founded in 2013, the company deals in one-on-one teaching situations and was a prolific hirer of remote talent last year. If language teaching is your cup of tea, so might be VIPKID.

Ranked third on FlexJobs’ list is Cactus Communications, based in Mumbai, India. According to FlexJobs, the company offers writing and editing services for “clients in the academic, pharmaceutical, and medical device sectors. With offices in the U.S. and across southeast Asia. It has processed more than 616,000 documents for clients in more than 16o countries. It also hires a lot of remote workers, which makes it one to watch.

Follow me on Twitter @KarstenStrauss

Follow me on LinkedIn