Police arrest suspect in Nashville nurse's murder
Police arrest suspect in Nashville nurse's murder
Shares               A man has been arrested in connection with the fatal stabbing of a Nashville nurse, the Metro Nashville Police Department said Wednesday. Christopher Drew McLawhorn, 24, was arrested and charged with criminal homicide and especially aggravated burglary in connection with the murder of Tiffany Ferguson, police said press conference Wednesday. Officials said Ferguson, a 23-year-old nurse, was murdered on February 28th after a man broke into her Nashville apartment and stabbed her to death. Her roommate was awakened by her screams and called 911 , according to police.   Surveillance video from the apartment building showed a man pulling on the door handles of parked cars around 5 a.m. The footage was a key component of the investigation, police said. Police believe McLawhorn was a part of the burglary that ended in Ferguson’s death. Possible motives are not being divulged publicly at this time, police said. Authorities said McLawhorn denied involvement when interviewed by detectives.  Metro police to hold news conference on young nurse's murder https://t.co/6O05pZQVwZ  Molly Cox, 32, Ferguson's sister, said Ferguson had attended nursing school in Alabama and had lived in the apartment for a little less than a year. Ferguson was a nurse in the intensive-care unit at a local Nashville hospital. Cox said that Ferguson had traveled to Guatemala on a mission trip and would give food and money to the homeless people around her apartment building.  Christopher McLawhorn, 24, being charged tonight with the 2/28 murder of Tiffany Ferguson at her Wedgewood Park apartment. pic.twitter.com/bDh5O32t39  "I think she had been out with some coworkers and then came home," Cox said about Ferguson. "We understand that she got home and later on that morning her roommate heard a scream and the front door was open and they found her in the bed." Cox said the family did not recognize the man on the video. "I just want everyone to know that she [Ferguson] had a good heart and she was young and she was beautiful and she deserved better than what she got," she said. "She just had so many dreams and wanted to do so much." It was unclear if McLawhorn had an attorney.  Shares                  Police arrest suspect in Nashville nurse's murder   Health care overhaul scores early triumph despite opposition   Nearly a million people lose power in Michigan after high winds   Hawaii becomes 1st state to sue over Trump's new travel ban   Trump on charm offensive with former rivals   St. Patrick's parade planners to reconsider gay veterans ban   Merkel: Europe must take on more responsibility in Trump era   Kremlin denies violating nuclear arms pact with US   FCC says it will investigate AT&T wireless 911 outage   Body of woman missing for more than a month found   RadioShack files for bankruptcy for second time in 2 years   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Interval training may have anti-aging benefits, study finds   Pot for pets: Owners treat sick animals with cannabis   Police chief says meditation should be key piece of officer development   Terminally ill boy fulfills wish to ski down mountain   Bride didn't let wedding party bus catching fire ruin her big day   Wedding ring attached to beads thrown in Fat Tuesday parade   Texas grandpa builds amusement park in backyard   Pregnant woman re-enacts giraffe livestream wearing mask   These mushers brave ice, snow and freezing temps to compete in Alaska’s Iditarod dogsled race   FIFA reminds US about World Cup obligations amid travel ban   Pope on celibacy, populism and his 'moments of emptiness'   Putin fires 10 top law enforcement officials   Death toll from Madagascar cyclone rises to 5   Huntsman accepts nomination of Russia ambassadorship   IS gunmen in white lab coats kill 30 in Kabul hospital   Inside Mosul: Efforts to save animals, cultural artifacts in war zones   'Serious' health, safety concerns at immigration detention facility   Trump admin weighing cuts to Coast Guard, TSA to fund border wall   106 arrests sought after California white nationalist rally   Marine commandant calls harassment allegations 'embarrassing' to the Corps   Mark Ruffalo on Obama surprising 'The Price' Broadway cast   Guinness castle on market for $29.5M

A man has been arrested in connection with the fatal stabbing of a Nashville nurse, the Metro Nashville Police Department said Wednesday.

Christopher Drew McLawhorn, 24, was arrested and charged with criminal homicide and especially aggravated burglary in connection with the murder of Tiffany Ferguson, police said press conference Wednesday.

Officials said Ferguson, a 23-year-old nurse, was murdered on February 28th after a man broke into her Nashville apartment and stabbed her to death. Her roommate was awakened by her screams and called 911, according to police.

Metro Nashville Police Department

Surveillance video from the apartment building showed a man pulling on the door handles of parked cars around 5 a.m. The footage was a key component of the investigation, police said.

Police believe McLawhorn was a part of the burglary that ended in Ferguson’s death. Possible motives are not being divulged publicly at this time, police said.

Authorities said McLawhorn denied involvement when interviewed by detectives.

Metro police to hold news conference on young nurse's murder https://t.co/6O05pZQVwZ — Nick Caloway WKRN (@NickJCaloway) March 9, 2017

Molly Cox, 32, Ferguson's sister, said Ferguson had attended nursing school in Alabama and had lived in the apartment for a little less than a year. Ferguson was a nurse in the intensive-care unit at a local Nashville hospital.

Cox said that Ferguson had traveled to Guatemala on a mission trip and would give food and money to the homeless people around her apartment building.

Christopher McLawhorn, 24, being charged tonight with the 2/28 murder of Tiffany Ferguson at her Wedgewood Park apartment. pic.twitter.com/bDh5O32t39 — Metro Nashville PD (@MNPDNashville) March 9, 2017

"I think she had been out with some coworkers and then came home," Cox said about Ferguson. "We understand that she got home and later on that morning her roommate heard a scream and the front door was open and they found her in the bed."

Cox said the family did not recognize the man on the video.

"I just want everyone to know that she [Ferguson] had a good heart and she was young and she was beautiful and she deserved better than what she got," she said. "She just had so many dreams and wanted to do so much."

It was unclear if McLawhorn had an attorney.

ABC News' Enjoli Francis contributed to this report.