Wikileaks says it wants to help tech companies thwart CIA hacking
Wikileaks says it wants to help tech companies thwart CIA hacking
Wikileaks mastermind Julian Assange says he wants to help tech companies block the CIA's hacking techniques. "We have decided to work with them , to give them some exclusive access to some of the technical details we have, so that fixes can be pushed out," he said during a Facebook Live news conference on Thursday. SEE ALSO: WikiLeaks document dump alleges the CIA can hack almost everything Assange said tech companies have asked for more details about CIA hacking methods since Wikileaks released 8,761 apparently real documents on Tuesday that exposed the power of the agency's hacking operations. The documents, allegedly part one in a series of document dumps to come, said the CIA has long been in a bureaucratic battle with the NSA. Tired of being beholden to NSA intelligence, the CIA built up its own hugely powerful hacking unit, which has since found ways around encrypted chat apps such as Signal and WhatsApp, devised ways to turn smart TVs into covert microphones, and has tried to figure out how to hack cars. If tech companies are indeed interested in working with Assange, they'll likely want to fix holes in software that can be exploited by government hackers and others. Wikileaks didn't publish material describing exactly how a sophisticated hacker might employ any of these techniques. Wikileaks has a history of publishing documents that governments would rather not have in the open, though lost much of its credibility during the 2016 presidential election in the United States after its leaks and Twitter persona seemed to be aimed at electing President Donald Trump over rival Hillary Clinton. The CIA certainly knows that history, and has reminded everyone of it in the wake of the document leaks. "As we’ve said previously, Julian Assange is not exactly a bastion of truth and integrity," said CIA spokesperson Jonathan Liu. "Despite the efforts of Assange and his ilk, CIA continues to aggressively collect foreign intelligence overseas to protect America from terrorists, hostile nation states and other adversaries.” Whether tech companies want to work with such an organization remains to be seen. WATCH: Edward Snowden says Russians probably hacked the NSA

Wikileaks mastermind Julian Assange says he wants to help tech companies block the CIA's hacking techniques.

"We have decided to work with them, to give them some exclusive access to some of the technical details we have, so that fixes can be pushed out," he said during a Facebook Live news conference on Thursday.

SEE ALSO: WikiLeaks document dump alleges the CIA can hack almost everything

Assange said tech companies have asked for more details about CIA hacking methods since Wikileaks released 8,761 apparently real documents on Tuesday that exposed the power of the agency's hacking operations. The documents, allegedly part one in a series of document dumps to come, said the CIA has long been in a bureaucratic battle with the NSA. Tired of being beholden to NSA intelligence, the CIA built up its own hugely powerful hacking unit, which has since found ways around encrypted chat apps such as Signal and WhatsApp, devised ways to turn smart TVs into covert microphones, and has tried to figure out how to hack cars.

If tech companies are indeed interested in working with Assange, they'll likely want to fix holes in software that can be exploited by government hackers and others. Wikileaks didn't publish material describing exactly how a sophisticated hacker might employ any of these techniques.

Wikileaks has a history of publishing documents that governments would rather not have in the open, though lost much of its credibility during the 2016 presidential election in the United States after its leaks and Twitter persona seemed to be aimed at electing President Donald Trump over rival Hillary Clinton.

The CIA certainly knows that history, and has reminded everyone of it in the wake of the document leaks.

"As we’ve said previously, Julian Assange is not exactly a bastion of truth and integrity," said CIA spokesperson Jonathan Liu. "Despite the efforts of Assange and his ilk, CIA continues to aggressively collect foreign intelligence overseas to protect America from terrorists, hostile nation states and other adversaries.”

Whether tech companies want to work with such an organization remains to be seen.