Jimmy Garoppolo Trade Rumors: Browns Reportedly Pursuing Patriots QB
Jimmy Garoppolo Trade Rumors: Browns Reportedly Pursuing Patriots QB
Despite trading for Brock Osweiler, the Cleveland Browns are reportedly continuing their pursuit for a starting quarterback. The team announced Thursday it acquired Osweiler and a second-round pick from the Houston Texans . The Browns may leverage that second-rounder to help get Jimmy Garoppolo , with NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reporting Cleveland is still angling to add the New England Patriots backup. First quote from the Browns on the Osweiler trade: "We’re really excited to acquire a second round draft choice in this trade." Breaking News: Browns shopping Osweiler contract all over the league. Want to trade Brock and late rnd pick for '18 3rd rnd pick ... Browns telling other teams that they will also eat "at least half" of the $16M due to Osweiler this year to facilitate the trade... Should all else fail, the Browns are considering cutting Osweiler outright, per Rapoport . While the team would have little trouble jettisoning Osweiler one way or the other, working out a trade for Garoppolo will likely prove more difficult. Cleveland.com's Mary Kay Cabot spoke to a source who speculated the Patriots may be holding out for the Browns' No. 1 overall draft pick and a possible first-rounder in 2018. The Browns have some flexibility since they own the first and 12th selections in the 2017 draft. Still, even the No. 1 pick for Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Norm Hall/Getty Images

Despite trading for Brock Osweiler, the Cleveland Browns are reportedly continuing their pursuit for a starting quarterback.

The team announced Thursday it acquired Osweiler and a second-round pick from the Houston Texans. The Browns may leverage that second-rounder to help get Jimmy Garoppolo, with NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reporting Cleveland is still angling to add the New England Patriots backup.

At the very least, it appears the Browns don't view Osweiler as part of their long-term future. ESPN.com's Field Yates thought it was telling general manager Sashi Brown mentioned trading for the draft pick before commenting on Osweiler:

CBS Sports' Jason La Canfora reported Cleveland is open to taking on part of Osweiler's salary to accommodate another trade:

Should all else fail, the Browns are considering cutting Osweiler outright, per Rapoport.

While the team would have little trouble jettisoning Osweiler one way or the other, working out a trade for Garoppolo will likely prove more difficult. Cleveland.com's Mary Kay Cabot spoke to a source who speculated the Patriots may be holding out for the Browns' No. 1 overall draft pick and a possible first-rounder in 2018.

The Browns have some flexibility since they own the first and 12th selections in the 2017 draft. Still, even the No. 1 pick for Garoppolo straight up would be a steep price to pay for a quarterback who has made two regular-season starts in three years.

Further complicating matters, Garoppolo is entering the final year of his current deal. If he's traded and has a big year in 2017, his new team will have difficulty deciding whether to use the franchise tag—an expensive venture for one year—or commit to a long-term deal, which carries plenty of potential pitfalls as well.

The Washington Redskins' ongoing difficulties with Kirk Cousins is an example of how the situation can backfire in a big way.

For a more reasonable price, trading for Garoppolo could be a smart move for the Browns. With a few weeks remaining until the draft, though, they should wait to see if Patriots' reported asking price comes down following Thursday's free-agent frenzy.