Raekwon Taps Lil Wayne for Grimy Track 'My Corner': Listen
Raekwon Taps Lil Wayne for Grimy Track 'My Corner': Listen
Raekwon Taps Lil Wayne for Grimy Track 'My Corner': Listen  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  In light of his forthcoming albumÂ , Raekwon releases his Lil Wayne -assisted track "My Corner." On the G Sparkz-produced record, Wayne and RaekwonÂ tradeÂ hard-hitting punchlines. "One for the money, nothin' after that shit/ I'm gettin' foreign money, money talks with an accent/ Life is a maze, I done run out of Pac-Men/ Really need a crown on my head like a catholic," raps Wayne. During his interview with , Raekwon raved about his Lil Wayne collaboration. "Oh my God, the n---a went bananas on it, B," he said.Â "He jumped on it and did backflips on it, kid. He put style on it. He put taste on it. He let n----as know that he still do what he do, which is important. Wayne is a clever n---a, man. He gets busy."  "My Corner" comes after Raekwon droppedÂ his newest video "Purple Brick Road" with G-Eazy Â last week. will be out March 24 with guest appearances by Lil Wayne, G-Eazy, Andra Day , and Cee Lo Green. Listen to Raekwon and Lil Wayne spit on "My Corner" below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

In light of his forthcoming albumÂ The Wild, Raekwon releases his Lil Wayne-assisted track "My Corner."

On the G Sparkz-produced record, Wayne and RaekwonÂ tradeÂ hard-hitting punchlines. "One for the money, nothin' after that shit/ I'm gettin' foreign money, money talks with an accent/ Life is a maze, I done run out of Pac-Men/ Really need a crown on my head like a catholic," raps Wayne.

During his interview with Billboard, Raekwon raved about his Lil Wayne collaboration. "Oh my God, the n---a went bananas on it, B," he said.Â "He jumped on it and did backflips on it, kid. He put style on it. He put taste on it. He let n----as know that he still do what he do, which is important. Wayne is a clever n---a, man. He gets busy."

"My Corner" comes after Raekwon droppedÂ his newest video "Purple Brick Road" with G-EazyÂ last week. The Wild will be out March 24 with guest appearances by Lil Wayne, G-Eazy, Andra Day, and Cee Lo Green.

Listen to Raekwon and Lil Wayne spit on "My Corner" below.