DJ Kool Herc Reminisces About Biggie
DJ Kool Herc Reminisces About Biggie 
If you don't know who DJ Kool Herc is then you can't say you know hip-hop. The legendary disc jockey is credited with originating the art form in the '70s, spurring some of the culture's most impactful artists, producers and moguls of all time. Herc sits down with rapper Awkwafina for the latest episode of her Complex Networks and go90 series, TAWK . The living legend gets real about the state of DJs and hip-hop today, along with his relationship with Biggie Smalls. In between the more serious points of conversation, Awkwafina asks him some questions you wouldn't think (or dare) to ask the father of hip-hop. The real reason to watch, however, is to hear what Kool Herc has to say about the Notorious B.I.G. and exactly what Biggie said to him the day they met. It's a pretty fitting way to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Biggie's death today. So take some time to pay your respects and watch Kool Herc share his memories of the Notorious B.I.G. in the clip above.

If you don't know who DJ Kool Herc is then you can't say you know hip-hop. The legendary disc jockey is credited with originating the art form in the '70s, spurring some of the culture's most impactful artists, producers and moguls of all time.

Herc sits down with rapper Awkwafina for the latest episode of her Complex Networks and go90 series, TAWK. The living legend gets real about the state of DJs and hip-hop today, along with his relationship with Biggie Smalls. In between the more serious points of conversation, Awkwafina asks him some questions you wouldn't think (or dare) to ask the father of hip-hop. The real reason to watch, however, is to hear what Kool Herc has to say about the Notorious B.I.G. and exactly what Biggie said to him the day they met. It's a pretty fitting way to commemorate the 20th anniversary of Biggie's death today. So take some time to pay your respects and watch Kool Herc share his memories of the Notorious B.I.G. in the clip above.