Houston Texans trade Brock Osweiler, 2018 second-round pick to Cleveland Browns
Sources: Texans trade QB Osweiler to Browns
Sources: Texans trade QB Osweiler to Browns Texans ship Osweiler to Cleveland Barnwell grades the big free-agent deals Rams solidify LT with Whitworth signing Adrian Peterson, in free agency for first time, faces a new world Myriad of trades helped put Patriots in position to acquire Dwayne Allen Big OT Rick Wagner will improve Lions run game, protect Matthew Stafford Completing deal for Jimmy Garoppolo would jumpstart Browns offseason Dolphins keep starting defensive line by retaining Andre Branch Why you should take those combine numbers with a grain of salt Texans have decisions to make in secondary entering free agency Panthers get defensive end Charles Johnson for another bargain Can Saints find 'must-have' edge rusher in thinned-out market? NFL regional combines: Fringe prospects bet with $160 and a dream See the moment Adam Schefter gets word on his phone that the Texans will trade Brock Osweiler and a second-round pick to the Cleveland Browns in a cap-space saving move. (1:02) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment ESPN NFL Insider Joined ESPN in 2009 Former president of the Pro Football Writers of America and the author of four books Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The Texans are trading quarterback Brock Osweiler and a 2018 second-round pick to Cleveland , which will take Osweiler's $16 million guaranteed salary of Houston's books, league sources tell ESPN's Adam Schefter. The move clears millions in salary-cap space for Houston to intensify its efforts to sign former Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo , sources said. Romo is expected to be traded by the Cowboys. To be exact, Houston will save $16 million in cash and $10 million against their cap this season. The Texans also will get the Browns' fourth-round pick this year in exchange for their own 6th-round pick. So Cleveland gets Osweiler's contract, a 2018 second-round pick and a 2017 sixth-round pick, and Houston gets Cleveland's 2017 fourth-round pick, saves $10 million in salary-cap space and $16 million in cash. Cleveland is not committed to keeping Osweiler and is likely to try to trade him, sources said. If that happens, the deal would turn into a basketball-like trade in which NBA teams routinely trade contracts to get them off their books. That move rarely happens in the NFL. It's hard to remember in the salary-cap era another team when a team traded a contract to get it off its books. But Houston was so eager to rid itself of Osweiler and move on to its next quarterbacking chapter that it is giving Cleveland extra picks to take him and his contract. The Browns headed into this free-agent signing period with more than $100 million worth of salary-cap space and would struggle to spend it all. Now they can devote some of it to Osweiler's contract and acquiring extra draft picks from Houston. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

See the moment Adam Schefter gets word on his phone that the Texans will trade Brock Osweiler and a second-round pick to the Cleveland Browns in a cap-space saving move. (1:02)

The Texans are trading quarterback Brock Osweiler and a 2018 second-round pick to Cleveland, which will take Osweiler's $16 million guaranteed salary of Houston's books, league sources tell ESPN's Adam Schefter.

The move clears millions in salary-cap space for Houston to intensify its efforts to sign former Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo, sources said.

Romo is expected to be traded by the Cowboys.

Cleveland is not committed to keeping Osweiler and is likely to try to trade him, sources said. AP Photo/Eric Christian Smith

To be exact, Houston will save $16 million in cash and $10 million against their cap this season.

The Texans also will get the Browns' fourth-round pick this year in exchange for their own 6th-round pick. So Cleveland gets Osweiler's contract, a 2018 second-round pick and a 2017 sixth-round pick, and Houston gets Cleveland's 2017 fourth-round pick, saves $10 million in salary-cap space and $16 million in cash.

Cleveland is not committed to keeping Osweiler and is likely to try to trade him, sources said. If that happens, the deal would turn into a basketball-like trade in which NBA teams routinely trade contracts to get them off their books. That move rarely happens in the NFL.

It's hard to remember in the salary-cap era another team when a team traded a contract to get it off its books. But Houston was so eager to rid itself of Osweiler and move on to its next quarterbacking chapter that it is giving Cleveland extra picks to take him and his contract.

The Browns headed into this free-agent signing period with more than $100 million worth of salary-cap space and would struggle to spend it all. Now they can devote some of it to Osweiler's contract and acquiring extra draft picks from Houston.