Maxine Waters: 'Sex Actions' Allegations in Trump Dossier Are 'Absolutely True'

Maxine Waters: 'Sex Actions' Allegations in Trump Dossier Are 'Absolutely True' // // // // Rep. Maxine Waters claims on @MSNBC that the sex allegations about Trump in the Russian dossier are true. pic.twitter.com/cd5LNmL0eo — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) March 9, 2017 A Democratic congresswoman repeated her call to investigate whether President Trump should be impeached. Representative Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) said on MSNBC that there must be a probe into the unsubstantiated dossier that surfaced last month, alleging that Trump could be subject to blackmail from the Russians. "The coverage they have on him, [the] sex actions ... that's absolutely true," Waters said, referring to the dossier's detailed description of claims Trump met with Russian prostitutes. "They should really read it, understand it, analyze it, determine what's fact," she added. Waters applauded fellow Californian Adam Schiff's (D-Burbank) call for dossier author Christopher Steele to testify before Congress. Schiff said he will be requesting that Steele, a former spy for the United Kingdom, either come before Congress or meet "in any matter he is comfortable." "If we do the investigation, then we will find the connections. And I do think that impeachment will be necessary," Waters said.

Rep. Maxine Waters claims on @MSNBC that the sex allegations about Trump in the Russian dossier are true. pic.twitter.com/cd5LNmL0eo — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) March 9, 2017

A Democratic congresswoman repeated her call to investigate whether President Trump should be impeached.

Representative Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) said on MSNBC that there must be a probe into the unsubstantiated dossier that surfaced last month, alleging that Trump could be subject to blackmail from the Russians.

"The coverage they have on him, [the] sex actions ... that's absolutely true," Waters said, referring to the dossier's detailed description of claims Trump met with Russian prostitutes.

A CPAC for Liberals? Report Says Dems Planning First 2020 'Cattle Call'

'Day Without Women' Supporter Battles Tucker: It Was 'Day of Action, Not Fun'

'Ugly on the Inside': Author, Sex Columnist Dan Savage Blasts Melania Trump

"They should really read it, understand it, analyze it, determine what's fact," she added.

Waters applauded fellow Californian Adam Schiff's (D-Burbank) call for dossier author Christopher Steele to testify before Congress.

Schiff said he will be requesting that Steele, a former spy for the United Kingdom, either come before Congress or meet "in any matter he is comfortable."

"If we do the investigation, then we will find the connections. And I do think that impeachment will be necessary," Waters said.

Sen. Cotton Tells House GOP to 'Start Over' on ObamaCare Replacement Plan

Democrats Slam EPA's Pruitt for Carbon Dioxide Remarks