2 Chainz Flexes Hard on 'Smartphone': Listen
2 Chainz Flexes Hard on 'Smartphone': Listen
2 Chainz Flexes Hard on 'Smartphone': Listen  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  With his new album slated for an April 7 release, 2Â Chainz continues to flood the web with more records. After dishing out the official version of his smooth track "It's a Vibe", the Atlanta rapper has decided to crank up the heat with his new record "Smartphone."Â Returning to his traditional trapÂ sound, Chainz gushes about his lavish lifestyle and fancy cars. Because an unofficial version of his star-studded single "It's a Vibe" featuring Ty Dolla $ign , Trey Songz , and Jhene Aiko was prematurely leaked WednesdayÂ morning (March 9), Chainz gifted his fans "Smartphone" as a bonus.  The Def Jam signee has been on a fiery run as of late. BecauseÂ his trap choir-assisted performance of "Good Drank" on scored well with the public, he released the soulful version late last week. With "Good Drank", "It's a Vibe", and now "Smartphone" officially out, 2 Chainz is on the cusp of delivering a special album next month. Give "Smartphone" a run below.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

With his new album Pretty Girls Like Trap Music slated for an April 7 release, 2Â Chainz continues to flood the web with more records. After dishing out the official version of his smooth track "It's a Vibe", the Atlanta rapper has decided to crank up the heat with his new record "Smartphone."Â

Returning to his traditional trapÂ sound, Chainz gushes about his lavish lifestyle and fancy cars. Because an unofficial version of his star-studded single "It's a Vibe" featuring Ty Dolla $ign, Trey Songz, and Jhene Aiko was prematurely leaked WednesdayÂ morning (March 9), Chainz gifted his fans "Smartphone" as a bonus.

The Def Jam signee has been on a fiery run as of late. BecauseÂ his trap choir-assisted performance of "Good Drank" on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon scored well with the public, he released the soulful version late last week. With "Good Drank", "It's a Vibe", and now "Smartphone" officially out, 2 Chainz is on the cusp of delivering a special album next month.

Give "Smartphone" a run below.Â