For Likely No. 1 Pick Markelle Fultz, Will Missing NCAA Tourney Affect Career?
For Likely No. 1 Pick Markelle Fultz, Will Missing NCAA Tourney Affect Career?
Markelle Fultz's college career is almost certainly finished, and the likely No. 1 pick in the 2017 NBA draft played for a team that won nine games. Fultz will not have the NCAA tournament to solidify his position as the top player in the draft and introduce much of the country to his game. Lonzo Ball, the other player who some consider a possibility at No. 1, has transformed UCLA from a team with a losing record a season ago into a fun-and-gun monster now sitting at 28-3 and in line for a high seed in the NCAA tournament. When the two guards went against each other this year, they had similar lines, and Ball's Bruins won 107-66. But every mock draft still has Fultz at the top, and most NBA personnel folks still favor the Washington guard as well. "I think both are going to be very good NBA point guards, make All-Star teams and be part of winning teams," a Western Conference scout told Bleacher Report. "Fultz has a better chance to be MVP out of the two, and if our team ends up in a situation where we get the No. 1 pick, I want us to draft a guy who has a chance to be the MVP in the league. Because that's really what gives you a chance to win the championship, when you have an MVP-caliber player." This is the line of thinking that drives NBA decision-makers when it comes to the No. 1 overall pick, but one important word there should stick out when evaluating a guy who just won nine games in a season: "championship." If Fultz is truly a player who can drive a franchise to the NBA Finals, then why couldn't his college team win more than two games in the Pac-12? Without context, it's a valid concern. But there is some context to consider. If this sounds familiar, it should. We went through it a season ago with Ben Simmons . Simmons went to LSU and put up awesome numbers that didn't translate to many wins, and his team also missed the NCAA tournament. The explanation for why Simmons picked LSU and not one of the blue bloods that most one-and-dones flock to was simple: His godfather is an assistant coach for the Tigers. Fultz was more of a late bloomer—he played on the junior varsity level his sophomore year of high school—and Washington won his services in part because the Huskies beat the masses on the recruiting trail. But it also helped that Washington had a roster that looked promising for Fultz's one-year tour. Washington coach Lorenzo Romar had a killer recruiting class in 2015 that included Dejounte Murray and Marquese Chriss. No one expected Murray and Chriss to be one-and-done. But they were. So out went Washington's three leading scorers from a team that went .500 in the Pac-12, and in came Fultz to play with the leftovers. "They just don't have a lot of talent," an Eastern Conference scout said. "I don't think it's fair to assess him and say, 'You didn't win in college.' I don't know that anyone would win there with the players they have there. It's nothing against those guys because they're all trying really hard, and it's nothing against Lorenzo. It's just simply the situation they're in." It still makes it hard for fans to fathom, however, how a player with the ability to be the No. 1 pick could not will his team to do better. That's why Simmons and Fultz have been put under the microscope more than others. "I'm looking more at Fultz's skill and athletic ability," the Western Conference scout said. "I like the kid. I think he really cares. Lonzo Ball doesn't have great body language, but you don't notice that because he plays at UCLA and they're winning a lot of games. "At times, [Fultz] has looked frustrated. The bad body language he's sometimes shown I think is overblown. If he didn't look frustrated, I'd be more worried about it. We're evaluating the player based on his talent and personality, and Fultz seems like a total winner and competitor to me." The luxury that scouts have in today's era is that they're not exclusively judging a player based on what he's done at the college level. "We've had the benefit of seeing him in USA Basketball and all the people we can talk to who have seen him play AAU," the Eastern Conference scout said. "I know it's big-time college basketball, but I just don't think he's been affected. And maybe he has. I just don't want to discount the fact that he has such amazing physical abilities." It's also difficult to ignore the individual production of Fultz. It's not just that he put up impressive per-game statistics (23.2 points, 5.9 assists and 5.7 rebounds). He was also efficient in doing so, shooting 41.3 percent from deep and making 50.2 percent of his twos. Meet Texas A&M's Robert Williams: NBA Lottery Sleeper Pick with a 7'5" Wingspan This Night in the NBA: Kawhi Leonard Makes MVP Case, Dion Waiters Goes Off History of Vinsanity B/R Presents: "Great Question" with Ice Cube This Personal Trainer Has Been Demolishing Your Bench Goals Since High School History Will Never Forget New England Patriots 5th Championship in Super Bowl LI 'Train as If Your Life Depends on It': Meet the Bodybuilder with Bionic Strength A7FL No-Pads, Full-Contact Football League Claims It's Safer Than the NFL Gridiron Heights: Patriots Win Super Bowl LI Fake Brady Makes Appearance at Super Bowl 51 Media Day Watch All-American Molly Huddle Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year Winner From Homeless to #1 Recruit: How Najee Harris Went from the Streets to Alabama Allen Iverson’s Cousin Is Grabbing Boards and Turning Heads in College Basketball From College Lacrosse to Super Bowl 51: Chris Hogan's Journey The HS Freshman Who Knows Where Top Recruits Are Headed Before Anyone Else This Night in the NBA Destruction, Chaos and Cardboard: Welcome to Boxwars 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Incredible Athlete and Double Amputee Is Redefining Heavy Lifting Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Gridiron Heights Episode 20: Roger Goodell Hosts the Griddies Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz Meet the College Basketball Coach with Dozens of Handshakes and Unlimited Swag Simms in 60: Brady's Brilliance Has Made NE Unstoppable Force Heading into SB51 Barack Obama: Fan of the Game How 15-Year-Old LaMelo Ball Is Making Half-Court Pull-Ups the New 3-Pointer Don't Get Caught: Meet Awesome Athletes Living Their Dreams in World Chase Tag Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Revisiting the Best Moments from Championship Teams Visiting President Obama Week 19 Episode of Gridiron Heights Why Are Tyson, Mayweather Training Chris Brown and Soulja Boy for Boxing Match? Former NFL Star Warrick Dunn Built Deshaun Watson's Childhood Home How Rodgers and Cobb Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Wild Card Weekend Gridiron Heights, Ep. 18: Giants and Justin Beiber Are on a Boat Simms in 60: Nothing Is More Frustrating Than Inconsistent NFL Playoff Referees The Real Story Behind This Husky Ninja's Jaw-Dropping Parkour Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns 16-Year-Old Dunking Phenom Zion Williamson Is Not Done Blowing Up Your Timeline Why Rodgers vs. Giants Defense Will Be the Best Matchup of Wild Card Weekend How Tom Brady and Julian Edelman Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Week 17 Lane Kiffin Saga Continues: CFB's Biggest Lightning Rod Keeps Burning Bridges Denied a Chance to Compete in College, This Runner Found a Way to Strike Gold Gridiron Heights, Ep. 17: Von, Cam Watch Trailer for “Playoffs: the Movie" Predicting 2017 Pro Football Hall of Fame Finalists Chris Simms' NFL Power Rankings for Week 17 Gridiron Heights, Episode 15: Christmas Special These Custom Nikes Raised $1.2M for the Doernbecher Children's Hospital Josh Norman Looks to Use His $75M Contract on a New D.C. Area Mansion Rest in Peace, Craig Sager: Paying Tribute to a Legendary NBA Sideline Reporter James Harden Is an Assassin: the Beard Makes His Case for NBA MVP Eddie George Surprises Buckeye Commit with Gatorade Player of the Year Award Simms in 60: Time to End Hypocritical Money Grab Called Thursday Night Football Cubs Star Kyle Schwarber Gives 10-Year-Old Fan Big Surprise with Batmobile Ride Packers Fan's Last Wish Comes True Malik Jackson Shows Off His Killer Beach Home with Incredible Views Meet Harrison Browne, the Transgender Athlete Who Is Redefining the Game Gridiron Heights, Ep. 14: Patriots Fight Cowboys Rebellion for 'Rogue One' Seats 2016: The Year of Cristiano Ronaldo MMA Contender Tim Kennedy: Green Beret and Top of ISIS Hit List Welcome to College Football's Largest Bowl Game Everything You Need to Know About College Football Bowl Season 2016 in 60 Seconds LeBron vs. Melo: the Rivalry Continues Between Superstar Friends Gridiron Heights Week 13 Sunday in 60: Matt Ryan Is About to Throw Away the Atlanta Falcons' Season LeBron vs. Wade: Legendary Heat Teammates Face Off in Hometown Clash Simms in 60: It's Time for NFL to Change 'Backwards' Medical Marijuana Policy Devonta Freeman's Stunning Mural Honors Atlanta & Cleat Week Larry Fitzgerald Unveils Epic Nike Spikes for B/R Cleat Week Gridiron Heights, Episode 12: The NFL Tries to Survive in "Planet Gridiron" Athlete Adventurer Ross Edgley Completes Triathlon Carrying a 100-Pound Tree Gridiron Heights, Episode 11: the Stars Give Thanks at Jerry Jones' Table This Thanksgiving Simms in 60: No One Deserves MVP Award More Than Oakland Raiders' QB Derek Carr Meet Joe Thomas Sr.: the 55-Year-Old Rudy Best Start Since Jordan: Relive DeMar Derozan's Historic Opening Weeks Simms' Hidden Truth: NFL's Top Offenses Turning Back Clock to Old-School Attack Chris Simms' Week 10 NFL Sunday Awards Gridiron Heights, Ep. 10: The Raiders Are Crashing the AFC Elites Party Gridiron Heights, Episode 9: Tom Brady, Roger Goodell Run for Mayor on Election Day AD vs. Boogie: Which Big Man Will America Choose? Sunday in 60: Dallas Cowboys Belong with New England Patriots in NFL's Top Tier The Hype: No. 1 Alabama Hopes to Keep Hopes Alive vs. Rival No. 13 LSU KD vs. Russ, Round 1: The NBA's Newest Rivalry Begins Tonight Watch No. 1 Recruit Najee Harris Star in 'Stranger Things' Inspired Trailer Fact or Fiction for Pro Football Hall of Fame Class of 2017 Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant to Go Head-to-Head in Exclusive Game of P-I-G Durant, Curry to Compete in Game of P-I-G Exclusively on B/R Gridiron Heights, Episode 8: An Unexpected Guest Crashes the Wilson's Baby Shower How Derek Carr and Seth Roberts Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Week 8 Insider Buzz: Increasingly Likely Cowboys Stick with Dak in the Long-Term The Next Adrian Peterson? Najee Harris Breaks 7 Tackles on Beast-Mode TD Run Gridiron Heights, Episode 7: A Rookie Monster Has Players Scared in Town Everything You Need to Know About College Football Week 9 in 60 Seconds Gridiron Heights: Cam, Von Miller Make Up, Tom Brady Escapes from Goodell’s Dog House Notre Dame Football Has Special Gift for 18-Year-Old Leukemia Survivor The Inspirational Ezra Frech Gridiron Heights: Odell & Josh Take It Outside, and Two Rookies Ride the Rookie Roller Coaster Barrett Sallee's College Football Playoff Rankings After Week 4 Will the 2021 HOF Class Be the Greatest Ever? "I think he's actually gotten better because it's forced him to deal with having so much defensive attention aimed at him," the Western Conference scout said. "It's forced him to have to figure out, 'OK, what's everything I can possibly do to help my team win?'" While he did not stack wins, he put up numbers that are hardly ever accomplished from a high-volume shooter. Fultz is one of only four players since the 1992-93 season to play more than 20 games and average better than 23 points and five assists and shoot above 40 percent from deep and 50 percent inside the arc, according to Sports-Reference.com . The other three players on that list were seniors who played at the mid-major level. The team that takes Fultz No. 1 should have no issue justifying the pick. Meet Texas A&M's Robert Williams: NBA Lottery Sleeper Pick with a 7'5" Wingspan This Night in the NBA: Kawhi Leonard Makes MVP Case, Dion Waiters Goes Off History of Vinsanity B/R Presents: "Great Question" with Ice Cube This Personal Trainer Has Been Demolishing Your Bench Goals Since High School History Will Never Forget New England Patriots 5th Championship in Super Bowl LI 'Train as If Your Life Depends on It': Meet the Bodybuilder with Bionic Strength A7FL No-Pads, Full-Contact Football League Claims It's Safer Than the NFL Gridiron Heights: Patriots Win Super Bowl LI Fake Brady Makes Appearance at Super Bowl 51 Media Day Watch All-American Molly Huddle Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year Winner From Homeless to #1 Recruit: How Najee Harris Went from the Streets to Alabama Allen Iverson’s Cousin Is Grabbing Boards and Turning Heads in College Basketball From College Lacrosse to Super Bowl 51: Chris Hogan's Journey The HS Freshman Who Knows Where Top Recruits Are Headed Before Anyone Else This Night in the NBA Destruction, Chaos and Cardboard: Welcome to Boxwars 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Incredible Athlete and Double Amputee Is Redefining Heavy Lifting Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Gridiron Heights Episode 20: Roger Goodell Hosts the Griddies Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz Meet the College Basketball Coach with Dozens of Handshakes and Unlimited Swag Simms in 60: Brady's Brilliance Has Made NE Unstoppable Force Heading into SB51 Barack Obama: Fan of the Game How 15-Year-Old LaMelo Ball Is Making Half-Court Pull-Ups the New 3-Pointer Don't Get Caught: Meet Awesome Athletes Living Their Dreams in World Chase Tag Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Revisiting the Best Moments from Championship Teams Visiting President Obama Week 19 Episode of Gridiron Heights Why Are Tyson, Mayweather Training Chris Brown and Soulja Boy for Boxing Match? Former NFL Star Warrick Dunn Built Deshaun Watson's Childhood Home How Rodgers and Cobb Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Wild Card Weekend Gridiron Heights, Ep. 18: Giants and Justin Beiber Are on a Boat Simms in 60: Nothing Is More Frustrating Than Inconsistent NFL Playoff Referees The Real Story Behind This Husky Ninja's Jaw-Dropping Parkour Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns 16-Year-Old Dunking Phenom Zion Williamson Is Not Done Blowing Up Your Timeline Why Rodgers vs. Giants Defense Will Be the Best Matchup of Wild Card Weekend How Tom Brady and Julian Edelman Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Week 17 Lane Kiffin Saga Continues: CFB's Biggest Lightning Rod Keeps Burning Bridges Denied a Chance to Compete in College, This Runner Found a Way to Strike Gold Gridiron Heights, Ep. 17: Von, Cam Watch Trailer for “Playoffs: the Movie" Predicting 2017 Pro Football Hall of Fame Finalists Chris Simms' NFL Power Rankings for Week 17 Gridiron Heights, Episode 15: Christmas Special These Custom Nikes Raised $1.2M for the Doernbecher Children's Hospital Josh Norman Looks to Use His $75M Contract on a New D.C. Area Mansion Rest in Peace, Craig Sager: Paying Tribute to a Legendary NBA Sideline Reporter James Harden Is an Assassin: the Beard Makes His Case for NBA MVP Eddie George Surprises Buckeye Commit with Gatorade Player of the Year Award Simms in 60: Time to End Hypocritical Money Grab Called Thursday Night Football Cubs Star Kyle Schwarber Gives 10-Year-Old Fan Big Surprise with Batmobile Ride Packers Fan's Last Wish Comes True Malik Jackson Shows Off His Killer Beach Home with Incredible Views Meet Harrison Browne, the Transgender Athlete Who Is Redefining the Game Gridiron Heights, Ep. 14: Patriots Fight Cowboys Rebellion for 'Rogue One' Seats 2016: The Year of Cristiano Ronaldo MMA Contender Tim Kennedy: Green Beret and Top of ISIS Hit List Welcome to College Football's Largest Bowl Game Everything You Need to Know About College Football Bowl Season 2016 in 60 Seconds LeBron vs. Melo: the Rivalry Continues Between Superstar Friends Gridiron Heights Week 13 Sunday in 60: Matt Ryan Is About to Throw Away the Atlanta Falcons' Season LeBron vs. Wade: Legendary Heat Teammates Face Off in Hometown Clash Simms in 60: It's Time for NFL to Change 'Backwards' Medical Marijuana Policy Devonta Freeman's Stunning Mural Honors Atlanta & Cleat Week Larry Fitzgerald Unveils Epic Nike Spikes for B/R Cleat Week Gridiron Heights, Episode 12: The NFL Tries to Survive in "Planet Gridiron" Athlete Adventurer Ross Edgley Completes Triathlon Carrying a 100-Pound Tree Gridiron Heights, Episode 11: the Stars Give Thanks at Jerry Jones' Table This Thanksgiving Simms in 60: No One Deserves MVP Award More Than Oakland Raiders' QB Derek Carr Meet Joe Thomas Sr.: the 55-Year-Old Rudy Best Start Since Jordan: Relive DeMar Derozan's Historic Opening Weeks Simms' Hidden Truth: NFL's Top Offenses Turning Back Clock to Old-School Attack Chris Simms' Week 10 NFL Sunday Awards Gridiron Heights, Ep. 10: The Raiders Are Crashing the AFC Elites Party Gridiron Heights, Episode 9: Tom Brady, Roger Goodell Run for Mayor on Election Day AD vs. Boogie: Which Big Man Will America Choose? Sunday in 60: Dallas Cowboys Belong with New England Patriots in NFL's Top Tier The Hype: No. 1 Alabama Hopes to Keep Hopes Alive vs. Rival No. 13 LSU KD vs. Russ, Round 1: The NBA's Newest Rivalry Begins Tonight Watch No. 1 Recruit Najee Harris Star in 'Stranger Things' Inspired Trailer Fact or Fiction for Pro Football Hall of Fame Class of 2017 Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant to Go Head-to-Head in Exclusive Game of P-I-G Durant, Curry to Compete in Game of P-I-G Exclusively on B/R Gridiron Heights, Episode 8: An Unexpected Guest Crashes the Wilson's Baby Shower How Derek Carr and Seth Roberts Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Week 8 Insider Buzz: Increasingly Likely Cowboys Stick with Dak in the Long-Term The Next Adrian Peterson? Najee Harris Breaks 7 Tackles on Beast-Mode TD Run Gridiron Heights, Episode 7: A Rookie Monster Has Players Scared in Town Everything You Need to Know About College Football Week 9 in 60 Seconds Gridiron Heights: Cam, Von Miller Make Up, Tom Brady Escapes from Goodell’s Dog House Notre Dame Football Has Special Gift for 18-Year-Old Leukemia Survivor The Inspirational Ezra Frech Gridiron Heights: Odell & Josh Take It Outside, and Two Rookies Ride the Rookie Roller Coaster Barrett Sallee's College Football Playoff Rankings After Week 4 Will the 2021 HOF Class Be the Greatest Ever? Given truth serum, it'd be interesting to hear whether Markelle Fultz and Ben Simmons wish they had taken the typical one-and-done route and signed with a blue blood. Their path to No. 1 is not just unusual. It's unprecedented. Since the field expanded to 64 teams in 1985, there had never been a top pick who attended college and didn't play in an NCAA tournament until Simmons went first last June. Assuming Fultz still goes No. 1, both succeeded in college if the goal was to become the top pick. We do not have any evidence that affected Simmons in a negative way because he's yet to play an NBA game that counts—out for the season with a foot injury—but there are plenty of examples that show a lack of college success is not a death sentence in the league. Paul George and James Harden are two recent case studies that should temper any concerns. George went to Fresno State, and his team won just three games in the Western Athletic Conference during his freshman year. The Bulldogs also had a losing season in George's sophomore season, which was his last. In Harden's freshman year at Arizona State, the Sun Devils were a middle-of-the-pack team that went to the NIT. They seem to be doing just fine in the NBA. But it has to be more fun to play for a winner. Plus, it's easier. "If [Fultz] was playing for a Hall of Fame coach with good players around him, he'd be terrific," the Western Conference scout said. "If he's on UCLA on that team without Lonzo Ball, he'd be just as good if not better." That's the kind of hypothetical NBA general managers will have to answer as the draft nears. It's not much different from trying to ignore the recency bias that is in play after watching the NCAA tournament. A larger question looms now that Simmons and Fultz have lived through these unusual one-and-done seasons: Are they outliers, or is this the new norm? "I think it's just a blip on the radar," the Eastern Conference scout said. "I think it's something that's circumstantial. I don't think it's representative of a trend. I think it is really hard for these one-and-done kids to come in and significantly impact the team if it's not Kansas, Kentucky or Duke. They're both coming from LSU and Washington, teams that aren't usually getting the one-and-done type of prospects. "I think we'll start to go back toward the previous kind of incantation of the draft. I think the one-and-dones will go to the programs that are consolidating these unbelievable NBA players like Kansas, Kentucky and Duke and now UCLA. I don't think we'll start seeing a bunch of kids go to Florida just to be different. I think they'll go to the programs that best prepare them for the NBA." As they should. But let's not dog on Simmons or Fultz for the path they chose. In some ways, you have to admire that they went against the norm and both their decisions were rooted in loyalty. The only reason they are cautionary tales is that they both missed out on making memories in the NCAA tournament. If we're going to force these players to play at least one year in college, we should hope they get to experience the best reward the game has to offer.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

","duration":61,"description":null,"author_name":"Team Stream Now","article_type":"uber_article","analytics":{"video_id":17484,"title":"Meet Texas A&M's Robert Williams: NBA Lottery Sleeper Pick with a 7'5\" Wingspan ","stream":"College Basketball","published_at":"2017-03-09T14:52:26.010000","id":"08c02e8c-802c-43e1-91b3-52b2c36f20d1","event":"moments-of-march-madness"},"amp_url":null,"ad_stitched_url":null},"media_width":null,"media_url":null,"media_id":null,"media_height":null,"hook_type":"photo","autoplay":false}},{"url_hash":"08a700df3b8e53cbeba1e1d16f04d6f6daf04b85b4691b3fbb52a759de5734d0","url":"http://bleacherreport.com/articles/2696904-2-players-unlikely-journey-across-3-continents-to-become-louisvilles-x-factor","updated_at":"2017-03-09T15:30:11Z","tag":{"unique_name":"college-basketball","tag_id":22,"short_name":"College BB","logo":"college.png","display_name":"College Basketball","color2":"","color1":""},"status":"active","position":null,"playlist_type":"ts","playlist_id":34191,"permalink":"/articles/track/6439853556-louisville-players-unlikely-journey-across-3-continents","performed_by":"kbrown@bleacherreport.com","original_url_hash":19555951,"notification":null,"is_locked":false,"is_featured":true,"internal_position":"984.6882324219","id_str":"6439853556","id":6439853556,"href":"http://djay.bleacherreport.com/playlists/college-basketball_ts/tracks/6439853556","hide_from_regions":[],"hidden_attributes":[],"group_tags":[],"expires_at":null,"created_at":"2017-03-09T15:29:42Z","content_type":"external_article","content":{"title":"Louisville Players' Unlikely Journey Across 3 Continents","thumbnail_url":"https://img.bleacherreport.net/img/images/photos/003/663/219/hi-res-02c5d3169ae5f90aa5412135847fe08f_crop_exact.jpg?w=900&h=600&q=75","metadata":{"title":"2 Players' Unlikely Journey Across 3 Continents to Become Louisville's X-Factor","thumbnail_url":"https://img.bleacherreport.net/img/images/photos/003/663/219/hi-res-02c5d3169ae5f90aa5412135847fe08f_crop_exact.jpg?w=900&h=600&q=75","provider_url":"http://bleacherreport.com","provider_name":"Bleacher Report","photo_credit":"Andy Lyons/Getty Images","description":"

LOUISVILLE, Ky. — In so many ways, the Louisville Cardinals appear to be your typical, really good, Final Four-capable team.

There's the 24-7 record, the No. 10 AP ranking, the four seed in the ACC tournament and a projected two seed in the NCAA tournament. There's the defense that is among the nation's best. There's the stud go-to scorer, Donovan Mitchell, and the steady-handed point guard, Quentin Snider.

And there's the potential X-factors: sophomore wing Deng Adel, the team's third-leading scorer (11.6 points per game), and 6'10\" senior big man Mangok Mathiang, its leading rebounder (6.2 per), players of whom Nick Coffey—a Louisville radio host who talks Cardinals hoops on the airwaves 12 months a year—says, \"There's not a situation where Louisville makes a Final Four without Deng Adel being the good Deng Adel and Mangok Mathiang being the good Mangok Mathiang.\"

When you're filling out your tourney bracket next week, that's the type of information you'll see in the various scouting-report blurbs about Louisville.

Impressive, but again, pretty typical of a team of this caliber.

What those blurbs won't reveal is how atypical this Louisville team's X-factors truly are.

They won't have the story of two players who have the shared experience of a life journey that spans three continents. They won't tell about the journey that led each to the same family in Florida—or of the way that family helped them reach this one university in the middle of America, where these days they can frequently be heard reminiscing about life in Australia and speaking to each other in Dinka, the tongue of their native Sudan, in the middle of games. (If you hear the word \"lee-ip\" on the court, that means either Mathiang or Adel is \"open.\")

The blurbs won't reveal it, but Louisville's potential road to the Final Four could be as unique and unlikely as any team's, and it began before these two had ever heard of the University of Louisville.

Each player's family wanted to escape war-torn Sudan, and each took its own path to Australia: Mathiang's family spent two years as refugees in Egypt, while Adel's family spent a year as refugees in Uganda. Neither has memories of their young lives in Sudan, both have fathers who stayed behind, and both journeyed half a world away to Melbourne, Australia, a coastal city of 5 million, where they made a new home.

They traveled in the same circles in Melbourne's potent Sudanese refugee community, but Mathiang was three years older.

It wasn't until the two were teenagers, playing in a Sudanese basketball league, that they struck up a relationship. And at first, it was far from cordial.

\"It was a couple months before I came to the United States for high school, and DA came down to the basketball court,\" explains Mathiang, who also played the rough-and-tumble Australian rules football. \"He was trying to guard me. I grabbed the ball and just blatantly elbowed him on purpose. And he was like, 'Yo, what the hell?' And I was like, 'Welcome to grown-man basketball.'

\"He didn't come back for three weeks. But then he just got used to it.\"

Not long after that first meeting, each went on a trip that would change the path of his life.

Mathiang went to Chicago, where a basketball coach who'd long worked with Australia's Sudanese community, Loren Jackson, invited him to live in his basement and take a flier on a basketball career. Mathiang followed Jackson to IMG Academy in Florida, where Jackson would eventually found his own basketball school.

Adel took his first trip back to Sudan since his family fled. He saw his father for the first time in a decade, reconnected with cousins he didn't remember and was reminded of his heritage. And he was humbled by what life in a third-world country was like compared to life in Australia: poor housing, not enough food, constant conflict.

When he returned to Australia after the trip, he doubled down on basketball, a sport he'd become a prodigy in.

\"It just made me more hard-working,\" Adel says. \"I want to help people from my home country out. It made me want to take basketball more seriously.\"

Wanting to do that, for Adel, meant one thing: going to America. His family was uncertain. You come all the way to Australia in order to send your child across the globe to live with an unknown family?

Luckily, Adel knew a guy. He called Mathiang, who was redshirting at Louisville for the 2012-13 season, a year that ended in a national title. Mathiang told him about Jackson, the guy who let Sudanese basketball players live in his basement and taught them the game. Then he called Jackson and vouched for his friend. Adel is legit, Mathiang told the coach, who by then had started Victory Rock Prep, a basketball-focused prep school in Bradenton, Fla.

\"They became my second family right away,\" Adel says. \"The great thing about it is with Coach, nothing's handed to you easy. He told me that from the jump. Coming there, I have to work my way up. I didn't want anything handed to me.

\"Mangok and me, we have an immigrant mentality. We've had to work our whole life for a better life. Why stop now?\"

Mathiang had lived in Jackson's basement, in the same house as the Jackson's two children—the girl, Ai-Ja, and the boy, Christian, who now plays for Long Beach State—but by the time Adel landed in the U.S., the Jacksons had procured an apartment in Florida for players. Still, Adel and Mathiang shared the same family experience: Do your dishes. Do your homework. And never, ever cross Mama Jackson.

\"They're just my family, and I'm going to treat them the way I treat my kids—and yes, they get punished just like they're my own children,\" says Paula \"Mama\" Jackson. \"Maybe you can't watch TV. Maybe you can't go out. It's our life's work, but it doesn't feel like that. I always have in mind when I meet a new kid that this is like my own child.\"

\"I'm a father figure, and those are my sons,\" Jackson says of Mathiang and Adel. \"Deng's little brother is with me now as a junior. It's kind of the beat that goes on.\"

It wasn't long before they became like family. Ai-Ja would take bites of food off Mathiang's plate, just like Mathiang's sister back home. The Jackson family got to know Mathiang's and Adel's families via frequent FaceTime calls.

As Mathiang and Adel became adopted members of the Jackson family, Ai-Ja and Christian came to consider themselves honorary Australians. Ai-Ja started referring to all her friends at school as her \"mates.\" She laughed when they would say \"bloody hell\" or \"love you heaps.\"

When Christian was in seventh grade, five African kids were living in his basement. Every morning, they'd all get up at 6 a.m., work out and then chow down on peanut butter and jelly. The family had to buy eight loaves of bread at a time. Christian learned Dinka, including a certain curse word that he'll use on the basketball court when he's mad. He found out what Mathiang and Adel already knew: You never get called for a technical when you speak in Dinka.

In December, Mathiang graduated from Louisville with a major in communications. His family visited the United States for the first time. At a celebration dinner, they finally got to meet the family that had helped raise their son in person. It was like meeting up with old friends.

\"Sport is an amazing way to connect with people across the world,\" Jackson says. \"Playing basketball, it's helped me. It gave me a free college education. You travel all across the country playing basketball. You meet people from all over the world. You feel connected. Why not give back to the sport I love?\"

What he's helped give Louisville is a story—and two players who have combined to become the team's single X-factor, a huge part of determining whether this team will make a run deep into March and, perhaps, to its fourth national title.

\"What bodes well for this team is when both those guys play well and do what they do: Mangok Mathiang taking care of the boards and doing the junk work, and Deng Adel scoring in transition,\" Coffey says. \"When that happens, everything else seems to fall into place for the team.\"

The blurbs will offer similar assessments, alongside praise of the hounding Rick Pitino defense, the big jump that Mitchell made in his sophomore year and how Snider makes the team one of the ACC's best at taking care of the ball.

It'll look impressive, but not nearly as interesting as it really is.

Read more NCAA Tournament news on BleacherReport.com