9 Cult Skincare Products That Really And Truly Work
9 Cult Skincare Products That Really And Truly Work
We hope you love the products we recommend! Just so you know, BuzzFeed may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. Help out inflamed, sensitive skin with a glow tonic . Pixi Glow Tonic “I was concerned it would be a bit too harsh for my sensitive skin but I was fine. No issues at all. I’ve been using it for a week and my skin is very dewy and glowing. After only using it for a couple of days (evenings only), the dark pimple marks on my face have started to fade and it has helped with unblocking my pores so my face feels very smooth and clean. Overall my skin looks great and its all down to this!” – 123 Reviews Also, Youtuber My Pale Skin has an in-depth video about how she uses Pixi Glow Tonic to help manage her skin. Get it at Marks and Spencers, £18 Your eczema could benefit from this great-value mask pack . Tony Moly I’m Real Skin Care Mask Set (11 Sheets) “I am so annoyed I waited this long to try sheet masking! I’ve been looking at the AsianBeauty subreddit for a while and finally decided to take the plunge as my skin’s really dehydrated at the minute. So far I’ve tried Aloe, Rice, and Avocado (one every other day since they turned up). I have eczema so my skin is really sensitive and prone to reactions, but these have been perfect. My skin is usually really flaky in the mornings but that’s stopped happening now. I’m starting to get dewy skin.” – Shanice Thomas For more information on these particular sheet masks and eczema, lots of users at r/AsianBeauty have shared their experiences. Get it at Amazon, £12.60 Brave a nose strip and tell whiteheads and blackheads to back off . Holika Holika Pig-Nose Clear Black Head 3-Step Kit “Recently I have had a lot of black heads and I haven’t been able to afford a facial. Destiny brought me to buy this pack and honestly it took almost every black head out! I was skeptical before trying it but honestly it is absolutely amazing! I will definitely be ordering more!” – Angie Also, Youtuber Hey it’s Fei has an in-depth video about her experiences with the nose strip. Get it at BeautyMart, £4.50 Soothe swollen and painful zits with a pimple master patch . Cosrx Acne Pimple Master Patch “I love these things – they don’t work if you use them with a spot that hasn’t already been popped though. What they do is they absorb all the excess oil from a spot, and honestly they’re so good. I sometimes get those really painful deep spots that take like a fortnight to go away completely, but I used 2 of these patches on it, one each night, and it completely disappeared on the 3rd day.” – Evelyn Buy it on Amazon, £5.60 Use a Vitamin C-enhanced moisturiser to help get rid of hyperpigmentation. The Body Shop Vitamin C Glow Boosting Moisturiser “This cream is really light, a little too light if you have really dry skin, but it is unbelievably good at getting rid of dark spots. You will see a glow within days of using it. Patricia Bright includes it in her getting rid of hyper-pigmentation routine .” – Tolani Get it at The Body Shop, £16 Give dry skin a treat with a cheap and cheerful face mask , that works. BuzzFeed BuzzFeed H&M Moisturising Face Mask “Tolani: So this worked better than I expected. My skin felt better and it looked less greasy. My mask was a peel off one, and it didn’t hurt when I peeled it off. I have used peel off masks before and the pain is just too much for me. The mask has a raspberry smell to it which I didn’t like but it’s not too offensive. I’ll be honest I’m really surprised at how good this is, plus it’s under two quid. Happy days. Emma: This smelt a bit chemically and definitely stung a bit when I had it on, but in all fairness I am ridiculously sensitive (in every way) . The results were very good though! My skin felt soft, and looked smoother and less red I thought!” – read the full reviews here . Get it at H&M, £1.99 Tackle larger acne areas overnight with a gentle but effective gel . : BeBarefaced Anti-Blemish Overnight Gel “I have had adult acne which has been the most nightmarish experience for decades now and this has really helped. Up until I found this I had been using all the ‘no bumps’ alcohol lotions for shavers because it was the best thing for me although it dries out the skin so I would clear up my spots somewhat but have dry patches that showed when I wore makeup. This didn’t do that and I have had about a 70% reduction in my skin problems. I hope that using it longer will up that percentage but when you consider I’ve only just started on it I am really really grateful and even that has been life changing for someone who has the problems I do.” – Caroline Get it on Amazon, £10.99 Defeat dead skin and callouses for picture perfect feet . Baby Foot Original “Ok, I was sceptical when I purchased this product, but at £15 for 2 pairs I thought it was worth trying. The most important thing I can share is, make sure you soak your feet and put the booties on when your feet are still wrinkly. I had my booties on for 1H 40mins, then I soaked my feet for 15-20 mins every day. I started peeling on day 2 and it stopped on day 8 (photo is day 3). The hardest skin on the edges of my heels is still there but much less, the cracks have reduced and everywhere else is soft. I’d definitely repurchase this product.” Get it on Amazon, £17 Bring joy into your dry skin and your life with these Pokémon sheet masks . Tony Moly Pikachu Mask Sheet “If you have really dry skin, this mask is great for you! The honey extract really does restore vitality to your face and you feel awake and glowing.” – read the full review here Get it at Beauty Mart, £4.50   50 Things That Look Exactly Like Your '90s British...    This British Celebrity Quiz Will Reveal Where You Should...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Sian Butcher/BuzzFeed ID: 10670097

We hope you love the products we recommend! Just so you know, BuzzFeed may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. ID: 10662839

1. Help out inflamed, sensitive skin with a glow tonic. My Pale Skin/ youtube.com Product: Pixi Glow Tonic Best review: “I was concerned it would be a bit too harsh for my sensitive skin but I was fine. No issues at all. I’ve been using it for a week and my skin is very dewy and glowing. After only using it for a couple of days (evenings only), the dark pimple marks on my face have started to fade and it has helped with unblocking my pores so my face feels very smooth and clean. Overall my skin looks great and its all down to this!” – 123 Reviews Also, Youtuber My Pale Skin has an in-depth video about how she uses Pixi Glow Tonic to help manage her skin. Get it at Marks and Spencers, £18 ID: 10662622

2. Your eczema could benefit from this great-value mask pack. Case/ Amazon, Amazon Product: Tony Moly I’m Real Skin Care Mask Set (11 Sheets) Best review: “I am so annoyed I waited this long to try sheet masking! I’ve been looking at the AsianBeauty subreddit for a while and finally decided to take the plunge as my skin’s really dehydrated at the minute. So far I’ve tried Aloe, Rice, and Avocado (one every other day since they turned up). I have eczema so my skin is really sensitive and prone to reactions, but these have been perfect. My skin is usually really flaky in the mornings but that’s stopped happening now. I’m starting to get dewy skin.” – Shanice Thomas For more information on these particular sheet masks and eczema, lots of users at r/AsianBeauty have shared their experiences. Get it at Amazon, £12.60 ID: 10662260

3. Brave a nose strip and tell whiteheads and blackheads to back off. youtube.com Product: Holika Holika Pig-Nose Clear Black Head 3-Step Kit Best review: “Recently I have had a lot of black heads and I haven’t been able to afford a facial. Destiny brought me to buy this pack and honestly it took almost every black head out! I was skeptical before trying it but honestly it is absolutely amazing! I will definitely be ordering more!” – Angie Also, Youtuber Hey it’s Fei has an in-depth video about her experiences with the nose strip. Get it at BeautyMart, £4.50 ID: 10662740

4. Soothe swollen and painful zits with a pimple master patch. Gigi Khor/ Amazon Product: Cosrx Acne Pimple Master Patch Best review: “I love these things – they don’t work if you use them with a spot that hasn’t already been popped though. What they do is they absorb all the excess oil from a spot, and honestly they’re so good. I sometimes get those really painful deep spots that take like a fortnight to go away completely, but I used 2 of these patches on it, one each night, and it completely disappeared on the 3rd day.” – Evelyn Buy it on Amazon, £5.60 ID: 10661882

6. Give dry skin a treat with a cheap and cheerful face mask, that works. BuzzFeed BuzzFeed Product: H&M Moisturising Face Mask Best review: “Tolani: So this worked better than I expected. My skin felt better and it looked less greasy. My mask was a peel off one, and it didn’t hurt when I peeled it off. I have used peel off masks before and the pain is just too much for me. The mask has a raspberry smell to it which I didn’t like but it’s not too offensive. I’ll be honest I’m really surprised at how good this is, plus it’s under two quid. Happy days. Emma: This smelt a bit chemically and definitely stung a bit when I had it on, but in all fairness I am ridiculously sensitive (in every way) . The results were very good though! My skin felt soft, and looked smoother and less red I thought!” – read the full reviews here. Get it at H&M, £1.99 ID: 10662581

7. Tackle larger acne areas overnight with a gentle but effective gel. Jade V/Amazon, Amazon Product: BeBarefaced Anti-Blemish Overnight Gel Best review: “I have had adult acne which has been the most nightmarish experience for decades now and this has really helped. Up until I found this I had been using all the ‘no bumps’ alcohol lotions for shavers because it was the best thing for me although it dries out the skin so I would clear up my spots somewhat but have dry patches that showed when I wore makeup. This didn’t do that and I have had about a 70% reduction in my skin problems. I hope that using it longer will up that percentage but when you consider I’ve only just started on it I am really really grateful and even that has been life changing for someone who has the problems I do.” – Caroline Get it on Amazon, £10.99 ID: 10661925

8. Defeat dead skin and callouses for picture perfect feet. Emma Clarey/ Amazon, amazon Product: Baby Foot Original Best review: “Ok, I was sceptical when I purchased this product, but at £15 for 2 pairs I thought it was worth trying. The most important thing I can share is, make sure you soak your feet and put the booties on when your feet are still wrinkly. I had my booties on for 1H 40mins, then I soaked my feet for 15-20 mins every day. I started peeling on day 2 and it stopped on day 8 (photo is day 3). The hardest skin on the edges of my heels is still there but much less, the cracks have reduced and everywhere else is soft. I’d definitely repurchase this product.” Get it on Amazon, £17 ID: 10662396