Trevor Noah: 'When I See Trump, I See a Stand-Up Comedian'
Trevor Noah: 'When I See Trump, I See a Stand-Up Comedian'
Trump may be hanging out in the White House while wearing really long ties , but that doesn't make him presidential. For host Trevor Noah , Trump actually has more in common with stand-up comedians than previous leaders of the free world. Noah, talking with CNN's Van Jones during a town hall event Wednesday night, also mocked conservatives' oft-repeated "Hollywood elite" criticism by reminding everyone that Trump is a reality TV personality. "You remember during the debates, there were moments when Trump would connect with people," Noah said . "And I watch Trump through a different filter. When I see Trump, I see a stand-up comedian. He connects with audiences in the same way. He knows how to make you laugh in a moment where you didn't think you would." The scariest part, Noah said when referencing Jones' controversial comments on Trump's recent remarks to a Navy SEAL widow, is not that Trump acted debatably "presidential" in that particular moment. "I think what's scary is that it is that easy to become presidential," Noah argued . Asked by Jones about that boring "Hollywood elite" criticism, Noah cut straight to something real: Trump the exact "elite" people claim to be against. Retweeted CNN ( @CNN ):  . @Trevornoah : "When people say 'the Hollywood elite,' I go, 'Who is your President?'"... https://t.co/QossO9t3t7 "When people say 'the Hollywood elite,' I go 'who is your president?'" Noah said. "I struggle with that concept. Donald Trump is literally a TV reality star. He is literally everything that people are saying they hate."

Trump may be hanging out in the White House while wearing really long ties, but that doesn't make him presidential. For Daily Show host Trevor Noah, Trump actually has more in common with stand-up comedians than previous leaders of the free world. Noah, talking with CNN's Van Jones during a Messy Truth town hall event Wednesday night, also mocked conservatives' oft-repeated "Hollywood elite" criticism by reminding everyone that Trump is literally a reality TV personality.

"You remember during the debates, there were moments when Trump would connect with people," Noah said. "And I watch Trump through a different filter. When I see Trump, I see a stand-up comedian. He connects with audiences in the same way. He knows how to make you laugh in a moment where you didn't think you would."

The scariest part, Noah said when referencing Jones' controversial comments on Trump's recent remarks to a Navy SEAL widow, is not that Trump acted debatably "presidential" in that particular moment. "I think what's scary is that it is that easy to become presidential," Noah argued.

Asked by Jones about that boring "Hollywood elite" criticism, Noah cut straight to something real: Trump is the exact "elite" people claim to be against.

"When people say 'the Hollywood elite,' I go 'who is your president?'" Noah said. "I struggle with that concept. Donald Trump is literally a TV reality star. He is literally everything that people are saying they hate."