Donald Trump's environmental protection chief Scott Pruitt 'not convinced' carbon dioxide causes global warming
Donald Trump's environmental protection chief Scott Pruitt 'not convinced' carbon dioxide causes global warming
resident Donald Trump's new Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt has said he is not convinced carbon dioxide emissions from human activity are the primary driver of global warming. "I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do and there is tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact," he told CNBC. "So no, I would not agree that it is a primary contributor to the global warming that we see. But we don't know that yet, we need to continue to debate, continue the review and analysis." His comments contradicted the Environmental Protection Agency of which he is Administrator. On its website the agency says: "Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas that is contributing to recent climate change." t says the burning of fossil fuels releases "large amounts of CO2 causing concentrations in the atmosphere to rise". Mr Pruitt's remarks also contradicted Nasa and the the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. In January they concluded surface temperatures on Earth has risen about two degrees Fahrenheit since the late 19th Century. That was driven "largely by increased carbon dioxide and other human-made emissions into the atmosphere". Kerry Emanuel, professor of atmospheric science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said: "Scott Pruitt is just plain wrong on this." Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, said: "The arsonist is now in charge of the fire department and he seems happy to let the climate crisis burn out of control." Mr Pruitt was previously attorney general of Oklahoma, where he sued the Environmental Protection Agency 14 times. ast year Mr Pruitt suggested the debate over global warming was "far from settled" and that "scientists continue to disagree about the degree and extent of global warming and its connection to the actions of mankind". During his his confirmation hearing in January Mr Pruitt said that he believed climate change is real. David Doniger, director of the climate program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, said: "The mask is off. After obscuring his true views during his Senate confirmation hearings, Scott Pruitt has outed himself as a pure climate denier." Mr Pruitt has been tasked with enforcing Mr Trump's campaign promised to roll back environmental regulations ushered in by former President Barack Obama, including those aimed at combating climate change.

President Donald Trump's new Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt has said he is not convinced carbon dioxide emissions from human activity are the primary driver of global warming.

"I think that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do and there is tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact," he told CNBC.

"So no, I would not agree that it is a primary contributor to the global warming that we see. But we don't know that yet, we need to continue to debate, continue the review and analysis."

His comments contradicted the Environmental Protection Agency of which he is Administrator.

On its website the agency says: "Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas that is contributing to recent climate change."