Hate Performance Reviews? Good News: They're Getting Shorter And Simpler
Hate Performance Reviews? Good News: They're Getting Shorter And Simpler
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jeff Kauflin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Shutterstock Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Shutterstock

Few people look forward to annual performance reviews. For managers, filling out lengthy forms is an onerous chore, and for employees, infrequent, one-sided appraisals can be a cause for dread. But new data shows companies are adopting shorter, more continuous feedback practices and it’s having a positive impact on their business.

A small number of firms like Adobe have been experimenting with simpler, more informal performance reviews for years. Now the practice is gaining wide adoption. “We see this massive re-engineering going on,” says Josh Bersin, a principal at Deloitte and Forbes contributor who oversees the Human Capital Trends report, an annual study of H.R. trends. Of the 10,447 business and H.R. leaders Deloitte surveyed, 71% said they’re either re-evaluating their current performance management system, upgrading it, or have updated it over the past three years.

Watch on Forbes:

In 2012 Adobe rolled out “Check-in,” a process of ongoing dialogue between managers and employees where they discuss expectations and career development, with two-way feedback. Written reviews aren’t required. Today Adobe says that change saves the company 100,000 manager hours a year, and voluntary attrition has steadily declined since rolling it out. Adobe published a guide to its check-in model this past January, and more than 600 companies have downloaded it so far.

Two years ago, Deloitte announced it had created a new review form with only four metrics for managers to fill out. One measure was, “Given what I know of this person’s performance, I would always want him or her on my team,” asked on a five-point agreement scale. Another read, “This person is at risk for low performance,” asked on a yes-or-no basis. Today Deloitte uses such questions in quarterly reviews, and they’re much more effective in identifying which employees will bring in the biggest and most profitable projects, Bersin says.

Apparel company Patagonia implemented quarterly check-ins two years ago and abolished year-end ratings. The result? “The new [performance management] process has generated better financial performance, improved individual performance, and strengthened engagement,” according to Deloitte’s report.

Accenture, GE, Goldman Sachs and Microsoft have revamped their processes, doing away with year-end ratings that rely on a single number, according to a report by research firm NeuroLeadership. In that study, among 27 companies that adopted continuous feedback systems, 100% said the quality of performance conversations improved, and 73% saw an increase in employee engagement.

Companies pursuing such changes shouldn’t expect to make them overnight. “H.R. departments have to reorient around new software and new processes,” Bersin says. They must shift from supporting the process once a year to supporting people all the time. For Patagonia, making the change “took years of rethinking, retraining and educating employees.” And managers must learn to become more like coaches, focusing on employee development rather than simply being a judge who gives an appraisal.

H.R. leaders have also begun to question other long-held performance review methods. For instance, Jack Welch’s famed “stack ranking”—the practice of ranking all employees against one another based on their performance—is falling out of favor. When Welch became CEO of GE in 1981, managers weren’t giving employees candid feedback. “Every rating was always satisfactory,” he says. He used stack ranking to differentiate the top from the bottom performers, but the practice fell in to wide disfavor as it tended to mean that on any team, even a near perfect one, there had to be clearly identified losers.

Adobe’s Donna Morris says times have changed. “Workers want to know how they perform,” she says. “They’re not as interested in knowing what others’ performance was.” Morris’ banishment of stack ranking hasn’t meant that Adobe is softer on its underperforming employees. It now fires people more frequently than it did before 2012, because managers are less likely to put off difficult conversations.

What does Jack Welch have to say about companies—including his own GE—casting off stack rankings? After 20 years as CEO at GE and 15 years in private equity, he still thinks the method works. But the higher goal is candid feedback. “As a manager, your job is to have your employees know where they stand ... if management feels they can do it another way, that’s fine.”

Follow me on Twitter @JeffKauflin or email me at jkauflin[at]forbes[dot]com.