Find The Right Credit Card The Right Way
Find The Right Credit Card The Right Way
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Sean McQuay       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock  Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

When choosing a credit card, many people work backward: They’re lured by flashy bonuses or rewards before considering whether the rewards actually match up with their spending. That means a whole lot of people are walking around with the wrong credit cards in their wallets.

There is no single best credit card for everyone. The best card for a frequent traveler is not the same as the best card for a homebody, and the best airline card for someone living in San Francisco probably won’t be the best card for someone in Dallas. Many credit cards beat the competition on one feature or perk, so it all depends on what you’re looking for.

The “best” credit card also depends on what you’ll use it for. If you’re working on paying down credit card debt, I don’t recommend that you pursue credit card rewards. You’ll be much better off with a card that helps you pay less interest. But if you pay off your cards in full every month, there’s no reason not to choose a card based on rewards.

Three steps to the best credit card

Assuming you’re looking to earn rewards from your credit card, how do you find the best one for you? Ask yourself three questions, in this order:

Where do you spend your money? What kind of rewards do you want? What perks and bonuses are you looking for?

» MORE: Find the best credit card for you

Before you scoff at that list as painfully obvious, take a moment to think about how you chose your last card. I’d bet you took the inverse approach, starting with step 3, or maybe 2, and working back to 1. Almost everyone does, and it severely limits the amount of rewards you can expect.

Why most people choose credit cards poorly

Based on my experience, most people have three types of cards in their wallet: one from the same bank where they have a checking account, a card or two from stores that offered one-time discounts for signing up, and a branded airline card that offers miles.

Out of those, the airline card is probably the favorite for daily spending and was chosen with the goal of earning airline miles, because who doesn’t want to earn free travel?

But this approach fails to take into account how credit card rewards are earned. Most rewards cards tend to reward spending in specific categories. For example, airline cards tend to give 2 or 3 points or miles for every dollar spent with that airline and only 1 point per dollar everywhere else. So unless most of your spending is on travel, you could miss out on hundreds of dollars’ worth of rewards per year.