Berlin lorry attacker was a 'cyberspace Casanova'
Berlin Christmas market attacker was a 'cyberspace Casanova'


Christmas market truck killer Anis Amri was a cyberspace Casanova who flirted with 140 women online in the run up to the massacre last year - and wanted to marry at least one of them.

Fatima A., 29, the daughter of a Thai mother and a Swiss father, got to know ISIS assassin Amri, 24, through Facebook.

'He was on the same wavelength as me,' she told a ZDF TV channel programme in Germany. 'We laughed a lot together.'

She said she trusted him so much that she even removed her Islamic face veil for him when they conversed in an Internet chat room.

Fatima A. (left), 29, the daughter of a Thai mother and a Swiss father, got to know ISIS assassin Anis Amri (right), 24, through Facebook

Amri stole a truck and drove it into the milling crowd at a Berlin Christmas market, killing 12 and injuring dozens of others

She told the programme that Amri wanted to travel to his homeland with her, and believed that he wanted to marry her. But she added: 'I backed off. That was all too quick for me. I wanted to remain single.'

The pair last spoke shortly before Christmas - Fatima said she cannot remember if it was before or after December 19.

On that day, having murdered an innocent Polish lorry driver in his cab, Amri then stole his truck and drove it into the milling crowd at a Berlin Christmas market, killing 12 and injuring dozens of others.

He then went on the run through Europe before being gunned down on December 23 by police who stopped him in the Italian city of Milan.

Police patrol the reopened Breitscheidplatz Christmas market at Berlin on December 22, 2016 in the days after the attack

Despite being despised by the world, Amri - who came to Germany as a bogus refugee from the war in Syria - is remembered by Fatima as a 'good man.'

She added; 'He called me one night around 11pm and said he wanted to meet me in a hotel. I didn't want to.'

She was asked if, perhaps, he was looking for her to provide a hideout for him but she said she didn't know.

And asked what she thought of him after the attack she added; 'I miss him. He was a good man.'