Two Killed In Shooting At Swiss Cafe, Attackers At Large
Two Killed In Shooting At Swiss Cafe, Attackers At Large
Two Killed In Shooting At Swiss Cafe, Attackers At Large Two men shot dead two people and seriously injured a third on Thursday at a cafe in Basel, north-west Switzerland, police said as they hunt for the suspects. "Two men came into Cafe 56" around 8.15 pm local time (1915 GMT) "and fired several rounds of shots," police said in a statement, without providing information on a possible motive. "Two customers were killed. Another is in a critical condition." The assailants were on the run following the shooting, according to police, who said they had headed in the direction of the railway station after the attack. "The reason behind the attack is not yet known and will be investigated," the Basel prosecutor's office said in a statement. A bullet hole was visible in one of the windows of the establishment, a small cafe in a residential neighbourhood. "Cafe 56 doesn't have a bad reputation," a neighbourhood resident told local newspaper Basler Zeitung. "It was previously an establishment known for its links to the drug world, but since the owner changed several years ago it became an ordinary cafe," the paper quoted another resident as saying. Gun crime is infrequent in Switzerland, even though the country has one of the highest rates of firearm ownership in the world. Citizens are allowed to keep their army-issue weapons at home outside periods of mandatory military service. This right has been controversial as sometimes weapons are used at home in domestic incidents. The number of weapons held at home is believed to be two million for a population of eight million, according to Swiss press.

Two men shot dead two people and seriously injured a third on Thursday at a cafe in Basel, north-west Switzerland, police said as they hunt for the suspects.

AFP

"Two men came into Cafe 56" around 8.15 pm local time (1915 GMT) "and fired several rounds of shots," police said in a statement, without providing information on a possible motive.

"Two customers were killed. Another is in a critical condition."

The assailants were on the run following the shooting, according to police, who said they had headed in the direction of the railway station after the attack.

"The reason behind the attack is not yet known and will be investigated," the Basel prosecutor's office said in a statement.

AFP

A bullet hole was visible in one of the windows of the establishment, a small cafe in a residential neighbourhood.

"Cafe 56 doesn't have a bad reputation," a neighbourhood resident told local newspaper Basler Zeitung.

"It was previously an establishment known for its links to the drug world, but since the owner changed several years ago it became an ordinary cafe," the paper quoted another resident as saying.

Gun crime is infrequent in Switzerland, even though the country has one of the highest rates of firearm ownership in the world.

AFP

Citizens are allowed to keep their army-issue weapons at home outside periods of mandatory military service.

This right has been controversial as sometimes weapons are used at home in domestic incidents.

The number of weapons held at home is believed to be two million for a population of eight million, according to Swiss press.

Don't Miss 4.5 K SHARES 205 K SHARES 93.8 K SHARES 46.6 K SHARES

Inputs From AFP