Kansas Governor Writes To PM Modi, SC Declines Ansal's Plea And Other Must Read Stoies
Kansas Governor Writes To PM Modi, SC Declines Ansal's Plea And Other Must Read Stoies
Kansas Governor Writes To PM Modi, SC Declines Ansal's Plea And Other Must Read Stoies Kansas Governor Sam Brownback has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing his deep regret over last month's tragic murder of a 32-year-old engineer, Srinivas Kuchibhotla. Brownback's letter comes after the Kansas incident sent shock waves among Indians in the US and across the world. In the letter to PM Modi, dated March 3, he wrote: "Words cannot express the sorrow that we feel for Srinu's wife, Sunayana, and his family in Hyderabad." Read more 1. After Being Boycotted In Tamil Nadu, Pepsi Stops Production In Kerala Due To Lack Of Water After international beverage companies Coke and Pepsi stopped production due to boycott by the locals, it is time for Pepsi to pack its bags at its bottling plant in Kanjikode, in Kerala because of water shortages, the India Resource Center has confirmed. A team led by Professor P. S. Panikkar, an eminent social activist and member of the Kanjikode Paristithy Kaval Sangham, a government-appointed watchdog group, tried to enter the PepsiCo factory premises in Kanjikode yesterday to ascertain if PepsiCo was abiding by the state government orders to reduce water extraction but the team was denied entry by the staff and security. Read more 2. Lakes In Bengaluru Are So Polluted That They Will Make The City Inhabitable By 2025 Over the years, India’s only IT hub has attracted engineers and computer science professionals from all over the country. Not entirely anticipating this boom, Bengaluru has now become a notorious example of urban planning gone wrong. Residents of New Delhi and Mumbai, who used to once envy the citizens of Karnataka’s capital city for its greenery, lakes and clean air, now breathe a sigh of relief of not taking the plunge and moving there. Lakes in Bengaluru are catching fire at a consistent frequency. And that's only because they are extremely polluted. Read more 3. Uphaar Cinema Fire Tragedy: Supreme Court Declines Gopal Ansal’s Plea To Extend Surrender Date A three-judge bench, headed by Justice Ranjan Gogoi, has declined Uphaar Cinema owner Gopal Ansal’s plea to extend the date of surrender He is due to surrender today, will have to complete the remaining part of his sentence for the 1997 fire tragedy.

Kansas Governor Sam Brownback has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing his deep regret over last month's tragic murder of a 32-year-old engineer, Srinivas Kuchibhotla. Brownback's letter comes after the Kansas incident sent shock waves among Indians in the US and across the world.

Reuters

In the letter to PM Modi, dated March 3, he wrote: "Words cannot express the sorrow that we feel for Srinu's wife, Sunayana, and his family in Hyderabad." Read more

1. After Being Boycotted In Tamil Nadu, Pepsi Stops Production In Kerala Due To Lack Of Water

After international beverage companies Coke and Pepsi stopped production due to boycott by the locals, it is time for Pepsi to pack its bags at its bottling plant in Kanjikode, in Kerala because of water shortages, the India Resource Center has confirmed.

Pepsi

A team led by Professor P. S. Panikkar, an eminent social activist and member of the Kanjikode Paristithy Kaval Sangham, a government-appointed watchdog group, tried to enter the PepsiCo factory premises in Kanjikode yesterday to ascertain if PepsiCo was abiding by the state government orders to reduce water extraction but the team was denied entry by the staff and security. Read more

2. Lakes In Bengaluru Are So Polluted That They Will Make The City Inhabitable By 2025

Over the years, India’s only IT hub has attracted engineers and computer science professionals from all over the country.

BCCL

Not entirely anticipating this boom, Bengaluru has now become a notorious example of urban planning gone wrong. Residents of New Delhi and Mumbai, who used to once envy the citizens of Karnataka’s capital city for its greenery, lakes and clean air, now breathe a sigh of relief of not taking the plunge and moving there. Lakes in Bengaluru are catching fire at a consistent frequency. And that's only because they are extremely polluted. Read more

3. Uphaar Cinema Fire Tragedy: Supreme Court Declines Gopal Ansal’s Plea To Extend Surrender Date

A three-judge bench, headed by Justice Ranjan Gogoi, has declined Uphaar Cinema owner Gopal Ansal’s plea to extend the date of surrender He is due to surrender today, will have to complete the remaining part of his sentence for the 1997 fire tragedy.

PTI

Don't Miss 204 SHARES 309 SHARES 191.1 K SHARES 92.4 K SHARES 42.7 K SHARES

Gopal Ansal and his brother Sushil owned the Uphaar Cinema in south Delhi, where 55 movie-goers died after the theatre caught fire in 1997. Gopal's lawyer and senior advocate Ram Jethmalani requested the court to postpone the hearing in the case after the nine-day Holi break. But, the bench denied his request and scheduled the hearing for March 9. Read more

4. Mass Marriage Of 104 Differently-Abled Couples That Took Place In MP Sets A New World Record

Most of us take our life for granted. We whine, complain, and grumble over petty things that can be resolved too quickly. But have we ever thought about the plight of those who've been denied the gift of a fully-functional body?

AP

Time and again, differently abled people have proved that the only mantra for success is a strong will and one is as fit, capable, competent to do anything in life as they think they are. Read more

5. Indian-Origin Canadian Woman Stopped From Entering The US, Asked To Get Immigrant Visa To Cross The Border

Amid the raging criticism of Donald Trump's travel ban comes this incident of an Indian-origin Canadian woman who was denied entry into the country. 39-year-old, Manpreet Kooner, a resident of the Montreal city of Canada, was travelling along with her friends when she was asked to step aside by the officials at the airport.

Facebook/Manpreet Kooner

After a six-hour long interrogation, the officials asked Kooner to produce an immigrant visa if she wanted to cross the borders. Read more