The Idiot's Guide To Electronic Music And Its Sub Genres
The Idiot's Guide To Electronic Music And Its Sub Genres
The Idiot's Guide To Electronic Music And Its Sub Genres For someone whose mood oscillates between Jagjit Singh ghazals and Taylor Swift’s achy-breaky songs, I, for one never really was into EM. But then, a friend dragged me to a pub and made me dance to Anjunabeats, and that was it. I never really made an effort to move my body, but I swear it responded to the music on its own. I experienced a kind of energy that made me fly. It is then that I was completely hooked. I know that I am a major noob, but for the ones who really want to get acquainted with this genre which has sub genres, here’s an idiot’s guide to electronic music. 1. House Known as one of the most popular forms of Electronic Music, House music is the most distinguishable. The music was first created in Chicago and it comes after the aftermath of disco. David Guetta, deadmau5, Avicii, Swedish House Mafia, Afrojack, Hardwell, Daft Punk, Zedd, Wolfgang Gartner, Danny Tenaglia, Erick Morillo, Sasha 2. Techno Techno emerged in Detroit, Michigan and, technically it is repetitive instrumental music which has a tempo that varies between 120 to 150 beats per minute (bpm), approximately. Artists like U2 and Madonna have incorporated techno in their music, too. Carl Cox, Richie Hawtin, Derrick May, Juan Atkins, Victor Calderone, Nicole Moudaber, Adam Beyer, UMEK, Chris Liebing, Brodinski, Gessaffelstein, Boys Noize 3. Trance And that’s where you can place Anjunabeats. Trance basically builds up and breaks down melodies. Well, it literally puts you in a ‘trance’ where the music takes over you and your thinking process and you just move. Armin Van Buuren, Tiēsto, Roger Shah, Above & Beyond, Ferry Corsten, Judge Jules, Dash Berlin, Markus Schulz, Aly & Fila, Paul Oakenfold, BT 4. Dubstep

For someone whose mood oscillates between Jagjit Singh ghazals and Taylor Swift’s achy-breaky songs, I, for one never really was into EM. But then, a friend dragged me to a pub and made me dance to Anjunabeats, and that was it. I never really made an effort to move my body, but I swear it responded to the music on its own. I experienced a kind of energy that made me fly. It is then that I was completely hooked. I know that I am a major noob, but for the ones who really want to get acquainted with this genre which has sub genres, here’s an idiot’s guide to electronic music.

1. House

blue maize

Known as one of the most popular forms of Electronic Music, House music is the most distinguishable. The music was first created in Chicago and it comes after the aftermath of disco.

Artists to listen to: David Guetta, deadmau5, Avicii, Swedish House Mafia, Afrojack, Hardwell, Daft Punk, Zedd, Wolfgang Gartner, Danny Tenaglia, Erick Morillo, Sasha

2. Techno

enricofuerte

Techno emerged in Detroit, Michigan and, technically it is repetitive instrumental music which has a tempo that varies between 120 to 150 beats per minute (bpm), approximately. Artists like U2 and Madonna have incorporated techno in their music, too.

Artists to listen to: Carl Cox, Richie Hawtin, Derrick May, Juan Atkins, Victor Calderone, Nicole Moudaber, Adam Beyer, UMEK, Chris Liebing, Brodinski, Gessaffelstein, Boys Noize

3. Trance

mushroom magazine

And that’s where you can place Anjunabeats. Trance basically builds up and breaks down melodies. Well, it literally puts you in a ‘trance’ where the music takes over you and your thinking process and you just move.

Artists to listen to: Armin Van Buuren, Tiēsto, Roger Shah, Above & Beyond, Ferry Corsten, Judge Jules, Dash Berlin, Markus Schulz, Aly & Fila, Paul Oakenfold, BT

4. Dubstep

dubstop blog

Don't Miss 12.5 K SHARES 134 SHARES 30.6 K SHARES 6.4 K SHARES 3.4 K SHARES

To be honest, I started following dubstep when Skrillex appeared on the EDM scene. Dubstep is kind of decade old and started to gain popularity in 2005 when DJs like John Peel and Mary Anne Hobbs started playing it at the concerts.

Artists to listen to: Skream, Benga, Skrillex, Borgore, Coki, Mala, Nero, Flux Pavilion, Kode 9, Rusko, Bassnectar, Excision, Datsik, 12th Planet, Caspa, Joker

5. Garage

dubspot blog

Garage was created by Todd Edwards and its power lies more in the vocals. It was developed in the Paradise Garage nightclub in New York City and club Zanzibar in New Jersey, USA, during the early- to mid-1980s. There is a different version of Garage in the UK called ‘UK Garage’ and is slightly different than the garage music in the US.

Artists to listen to: Todd Edwards, Artful Dodger, MJ Cole, So Solid Crew, The Streets

6. Drum & Bass

dnb vault

Commonly abbreviated as "D&B", "DnB" or "D'n'B", this branch of electronic music emerged from rave scenes in England. Drum and bass has sub-genres which include breakcore, ragga jungle, hardstep, darkstep, techstep, neurofunk, ambient drum and bass, liquid funk, deep, drumfunk, funkstep, sambass, dnbnoise, and drill 'n' bass. Whoa! Now that’s a gamut of styles.

Artists to listen to: Goldie, Ed Rush & Optical, Bad Company, Roni Size, Dillinja, London Elektricity, High Contrast, Andy C, Netsky, Pendulum, Noisia, Chase & Status, Sub Focus

Above & Beyond is one of the world's leading electronic music acts. The Above & Beyond India tour starts off on 10th March in Chennai, 11th in Hyderabad, 12th March Bengaluru, 13th March in Mumbai. You can get tickets here.