18 Times “Community” Snuck In Hilarious Little Jokes That You Might’ve Missed
18 Times “Community” Snuck In Hilarious Little Jokes That You Might’ve Missed
The woman exiting a door wiping her mouth and the guy who comes out immediately after her zipping up his pants. After characters said Beetlejuice a total of three times, he appeared in the background. There’s a reference to Troy and Abed getting stuck in a vending machine on their fridge two seasons later. Abed was actually in the background of a episode. The Dean low-key developed a dalmatian fetish. Abed’s robot mode in the episode “Aerodynamics of Gender” had memos foreshadowing future episodes, as well as a charting of Annie, Shirley, and Britta’s cycles. Troy rocking these pajamas as a nod to the Twitter campaign to get Donald Glover cast as Spider-Man. On Valentine’s Day, Starburns has heart-shaped sideburns. When the group was blocked by a Latvian parade during an episode that aired November 18th, which is Latvian Independence Day. “Cooperative Calligraphy” revolved around Annie’s missing pen, which you can see the monkey Annie’s Boob’s take at the start of the episode. The text on the waiver Gilbert is asked to electronically sign in the video game is the Three-Fifths Compromise. The group’s diorama included a tiny Chang watching from the window. Dean wore the same type of underwear we saw Jeff wear during Season One… …and Chang wore Jeff’s Burberry underwear. The candy striper in the poster is Amy Poehler. When the Greendale anus flag was lowered and City College’s was raised, it looked like this. On Troy’s (Donald Glover) final episode, the sailing vessel he and Levar Burton took off on is labeled “Childish Tycoon,” which, of course, is a reference to Childish Gambino. And finally, when the news ticker subtly updated us on Levar Burton and Troy’s adventures.   18 Times “Community” Snuck In Hilarious Little Jokes...    Andy's Friends From "Toy Story" Has His Face...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.