Huckabee Slams Anti-Trump Press: 'The Zenith of What People Are Disgusted By'

Huckabee Slams Anti-Trump Press: 'The Zenith of What People Are Disgusted By' // // // // Mike Huckabee slammed a TIME magazine story that said President Trump's opposition to Washington bureaucracy could come at the expense of our democracy. The former Arkansas governor called it the latest example of an anti-Trump press writing a "contemptuous and condescending story."  He said that journalists like the one that wrote the article still do not understand that Americans voted for Trump because of the size of government bureaucracy, not in spite of it. "This is at the zenith of what people are disgusted by," Huckabee said, adding that Trump is the "major disruption" the people have been wanting to see in the capital. "It's a war for the freedom that the American people have lost because of Washington," he said. He compared Trump to a prophetical figure coming down the mountain to take away the "golden calf" from the "god of government."

Mike Huckabee slammed a TIME magazine story that said President Trump's opposition to Washington bureaucracy could come at the expense of our democracy.

The former Arkansas governor called it the latest example of an anti-Trump press writing a "contemptuous and condescending story."

Judge Nap on New WikiLeaks: We Could Be 'One Step Away from Totalitarianism'

Pence: CIA Leaks 'A Significant Compromise of Nat'l Security'

Maxine Waters: 'Sex Actions' Allegations in Trump Dossier Are 'Absolutely True'

He said that journalists like the one that wrote the article still do not understand that Americans voted for Trump because of the size of government bureaucracy, not in spite of it.

"This is at the zenith of what people are disgusted by," Huckabee said, adding that Trump is the "major disruption" the people have been wanting to see in the capital.

"It's a war for the freedom that the American people have lost because of Washington," he said.

He compared Trump to a prophetical figure coming down the mountain to take away the "golden calf" from the "god of government."

Democrats Slam EPA's Pruitt for Carbon Dioxide Remarks

A CPAC for Liberals? Report Says Dems Planning First 2020 'Cattle Call'

Trump to Hold 2nd Rally of Presidency Next Week in Nashville