FBI Director James Comey meets congressional leaders on wiretapping, leaks, Russia
FBI Director Comey meets congressional leaders on wiretapping, leaks, Russia
Shares               FBI Director James Comey traveled to Capitol Hill Thursday to meet with congressional leaders on a number of national security issues, according to senior officials familiar with the situation. Comey was anticipating questions on a range of topics, including the recent WikiLeaks release of purported CIA files, Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and President Donald Trump 's assertion that former President Barack Obama ordered the wiretapping of Trump Tower last year. According to one official, Comey was prepared to inform the meeting's attendees that Trump's wiretapping claim was false -- a stance he asked the Department of Justice to take publicly over the weekend just after the president made the accusation. Following Comey's first meeting, Sen. Mark Warner , D-Virginia, said he still has not seen evidence to support the wiretap allegations but declined to provide further information about what was discussed. The meetings were prompted by a request the "Gang of Eight," party leaders from the House and Senate, as well as the chairs and ranking members of both chambers' intelligence committees. In addition to Warner, the group includes Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell and Richard Burr, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Rep. Devin Nunes; and Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer , House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Rep. Adam Schiff. Shares                  FBI Director Comey meets congressional leaders on wiretapping, leaks, Russia   Billboard near Musk's Tesla factory asks him to 'dump Trump'   Tillerson steps away from possible pipeline decisions   Pence: Turkey lobbying 'an affirmation' of decision to fire Flynn   Watchdog challenges White House over possible ethics violation   3 key provisions in 'Trumpcare' that cause experts concern   Spicer's rebuke puts spotlight on Congressional Budget Office   EPA chief's language on climate change contradicts the agency's website   The road to repealing and replacing Obamacare   Huntsman accepts nomination of Russia ambassadorship   Everything you need to know about Jon Huntsman   WH calls reported Trump meeting with Russian ambassador 'absurd'   South Korea's president formally ousted by court   Legal challenges to Trump's travel ban mount from US states   WikiLeaks to give tech companies early access to next hacking docs: Assange   Extreme wind violently knocks down man at NH observatory   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Interval training may have anti-aging benefits, study finds   Pot for pets: Owners treat sick animals with cannabis   Police chief says meditation should be key piece of officer development   Terminally ill boy fulfills wish to ski down mountain

FBI Director James Comey traveled to Capitol Hill Thursday to meet with congressional leaders on a number of national security issues, according to senior officials familiar with the situation.

Comey was anticipating questions on a range of topics, including the recent WikiLeaks release of purported CIA files, Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and President Donald Trump's assertion that former President Barack Obama ordered the wiretapping of Trump Tower last year.

According to one official, Comey was prepared to inform the meeting's attendees that Trump's wiretapping claim was false -- a stance he asked the Department of Justice to take publicly over the weekend just after the president made the accusation.

Following Comey's first meeting, Sen. Mark Warner, D-Virginia, said he still has not seen evidence to support the wiretap allegations but declined to provide further information about what was discussed.

The meetings were prompted by a request the "Gang of Eight," party leaders from the House and Senate, as well as the chairs and ranking members of both chambers' intelligence committees.

In addition to Warner, the group includes Republican Sens. Mitch McConnell and Richard Burr, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and Rep. Devin Nunes; and Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Rep. Adam Schiff.