‘Game of Thrones’ reveals its Season 7 summer release date

The release date for Season 7 of “Game of Thrones” was revealed Thursday: Mark your calendars for Sunday, July 16. The HBO series starts later than usual this year . That’s because showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss needed a wintry backdrop for their show’s penultimate season — spoiler: winter is here — and they weren’t going to get it with their typical shooting schedule, which has started in July. The big reveal for the release date was a bit of a debacle. Fans and journalists tuned in to Facebook Live , where the date was hidden inside a block of ice. Viewers could type “fire” into the comments section to summon a flame that would speed up the melting process, but after 20 minutes the feed went down. No matter, HBO tweeted out the date. They also released a new teaser trailer, which reveals no new information but will surely keep superfans up all night trying to decode. The great war is here. #GoTS7 premieres 7.16. pic.twitter.com/1Jna10kNuQ — Game Of Thrones (@GameOfThrones) March 9, 2017



Peter Dinklage, Nathalie Emmanuel and Emilia Clarke in HBO’s “Game of Thrones.” (HBO)

The release date for Season 7 of “Game of Thrones” was revealed Thursday: Mark your calendars for Sunday, July 16.

The HBO series starts later than usual this year. That’s because showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss needed a wintry backdrop for their show’s penultimate season — spoiler: winter is here — and they weren’t going to get it with their typical shooting schedule, which has started in July.

The big reveal for the release date was a bit of a debacle. Fans and journalists tuned in to Facebook Live, where the date was hidden inside a block of ice. Viewers could type “fire” into the comments section to summon a flame that would speed up the melting process, but after 20 minutes the feed went down.

No matter, HBO tweeted out the date. They also released a new teaser trailer, which reveals no new information but will surely keep superfans up all night trying to decode.