This Mesmerizing Food Quiz Will Reveal Where You Should Live
This Mesmerizing Food Quiz Will Reveal Where You Should Live
This Mesmerizing Food Quiz Will Reveal Where You Should Live  You got:
								
								Tokyo  It’s time to pack your bags and move to the neon metropolis. Can’t speak the language? Good. Can’t read kanji, katakana, or hiragana? Good. You’ll learn on the fly and find something important about yourself.     You got:
								
								Paris  You’ve got a flair for the artistic. What better place indulge your passions than the home of Jean-Luc Godard?     You got:
								
								London  You’re the type of person who loves grey skies and a good pub. London is the place for you so pack your bags and get yourself across the pond.     You got:
								
								New York City  Costly? Oh hell yes. But you’ll make it work because that’s the type of person you are. You’re gonna make it in the Big Apple, and even if you don’t stay there forever, you’ll be able to make it anywhere.     You got:
								
								Mexico City  You like to travel off the beaten path. So why not live in the glorious land of Aztecs and tacos de suadero? This is the place for you, but you just don’t know it yet. Trust me. You’ll love it.     You got:
								
								San Francisco  You’re the type of person who likes to chill and live life at your own pace. San Francisco is expensive as hell…but whatever man…you’ll figure it out, and like most things, it’ll be aight.    SHARE YOUR RESULTS   The Latest "Keeping Up With The Kardashians"...    18 Tiny Jokes So Hidden In "Community" That...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.