Randeep Hooda Talks About Gurmehar Case, Mandira Bedi To Adopt A Girl And More From Ent
Randeep Hooda Talks About Gurmehar Case, Mandira Bedi To Adopt A Girl And More From Ent
Randeep Hooda Talks About Gurmehar Case, Mandira Bedi To Adopt A Girl And More From Ent 1. Mandira Bedi & Her Husband Raj Are Looking To Adopt A Girl , Want To Name Her ‘Tara' Mandira Bedi and her husband Raj Kaushal have also announced via Facebook that they want to adopt a girl child. And what day could have been a better day than Women’s Day to announce the same. In the note, Raj wrote, "An honest Appeal this Women's Day. My son Vir needs a little sister. Vir 'ji' as the name suggests means older brother. He turns 6 in June. We always wanted a little sister for him. Since Mandira and I got married we always wanted to have one and adopt one." 2. I Should Have Been More Careful, Says Randeep Hooda On Gurmehar Kaur Fiasco In his recent interview, "It wasn't gender specific. I was and I am against politicisation of personal opinions. There was an axe to grind and considering the environment in the country vis-a-vis women, in hindsight, I do believe I should have been more careful." 3. This Video Of Anushka Sharma’s Conversation With A Journalist’s Mother Will Make You Go Awww! During a press conference, a correspondent’s phone, which was kept close to Anushka for recording purposes, rang. Instead of turning it off or ignoring it, like any other celebrity, Anushka actually took the call. It was the correspondent’s mother’s call. 4. Indian Censor Board Failed 'Lipstick Under My Burkha' But It's All Set To Open At Los Angeles Festival The festival is scheduled to happen from April 5-9 at Regal L.A. LIVE: A Barco Innovation Center in Los Angeles, California. 5. Kangana Ranaut Hits Back At Karan Johar, Says He Is Nobody To Tell Me To Leave Bollywood She said, “At the workplace, it’s the badass card to fight cutthroat competition. With my family and loved ones, it’s the love card. When fighting the world, it’s the dignity card, and for a seat on a bus, it’s the woman card. What is important to understand is that we are not fighting people, we are fighting a mentality. I am not fighting Karan Johar, I am fighting male chauvinism.”

1. Mandira Bedi & Her Husband Raj Are Looking To Adopt A Girl, Want To Name Her ‘Tara'

Mandira Bedi and her husband Raj Kaushal have also announced via Facebook that they want to adopt a girl child. And what day could have been a better day than Women’s Day to announce the same. In the note, Raj wrote, "An honest Appeal this Women's Day. My son Vir needs a little sister. Vir 'ji' as the name suggests means older brother. He turns 6 in June. We always wanted a little sister for him. Since Mandira and I got married we always wanted to have one and adopt one."

2. I Should Have Been More Careful, Says Randeep Hooda On Gurmehar Kaur Fiasco

INstagram/Randeep

In his recent interview, "It wasn't gender specific. I was and I am against politicisation of personal opinions. There was an axe to grind and considering the environment in the country vis-a-vis women, in hindsight, I do believe I should have been more careful."

3. This Video Of Anushka Sharma’s Conversation With A Journalist’s Mother Will Make You Go Awww!

YouTube Screengrab

During a press conference, a correspondent’s phone, which was kept close to Anushka for recording purposes, rang. Instead of turning it off or ignoring it, like any other celebrity, Anushka actually took the call. It was the correspondent’s mother’s call.

4. Indian Censor Board Failed 'Lipstick Under My Burkha' But It's All Set To Open At Los Angeles Festival

Twitter

The festival is scheduled to happen from April 5-9 at Regal L.A. LIVE: A Barco Innovation Center in Los Angeles, California.

5. Kangana Ranaut Hits Back At Karan Johar, Says He Is Nobody To Tell Me To Leave Bollywood

Star World

She said, “At the workplace, it’s the badass card to fight cutthroat competition. With my family and loved ones, it’s the love card. When fighting the world, it’s the dignity card, and for a seat on a bus, it’s the woman card. What is important to understand is that we are not fighting people, we are fighting a mentality. I am not fighting Karan Johar, I am fighting male chauvinism.”

Don't Miss 19.9 K SHARES 613 SHARES 48.7 K SHARES 19.9 K SHARES 14.6 K SHARES