Jimmy Garoppolo Confuses NFL Fans and Media With Instagram Post About Leaving Patriots
Jimmy Garoppolo Confuses NFL Fans and Media With Instagram Post About Leaving Patriots
Did the Patriots decide to trade their backup quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo overnight without telling anyone about it? That’s what many NFL fans and members of the media were left to wonder early Friday morning when they woke up to find a bizarre Instagram post on Garoppolo’s verified account that indicated he might be on the move. The post featured a photo of Garoppolo holding the Lombardi Trophy after the Patriots’ Super Bowl win in February, and it included a caption that said: "So grateful for my time in New England. Peace out Boston." So grateful for my time in New England. Peace out Boston ✌🏻 A post shared by Jimmy Garoppolo (@jimmypolo10) on Mar 10, 2017 at 12:55am PST NFL fans, especially those in the New England area, started freaking out immediately after seeing the post, which went up at around 4 a.m. ET. While the Patriots have already come out and said that they have no interest in parting ways with Garoppolo this offseason, the Browns have reportedly been very interested in working out a deal for him. And Cleveland has stockpiled so many draft picks in recent years that it wouldn’t necessarily come as a surprise to hear that the Patriots had agreed to trade Garoppolo in exchange for a handful of those picks. So many Pats fans believed Garoppolo might be headed to the Browns or another NFL team in a trade after seeing his IG post. Omg Jimmy Garoppolo traded? Wait what?! Was Jimmy Garoppolo traded? @NFL  @Patriots Has Jimmy Garoppolo been traded to the Browns or another team? His Instagram post says it all But shortly after Garoppolo’s IG post started sending shockwaves through the NFL world, reporters began chiming in on it on social media and talking about how they hadn’t heard about any potential Garoppolo trades that were in the works. And before long, the belief throughout the league was that Garoppolo’s IG had been hacked and that there was a trade in the works. Many reporters referred to the IG post as a prank or hoax. Source close to Jimmy G: No knowledge of any trade. Believes Instagram post ( https://t.co/HfFqiAKyI1 ) is hoax/hack that has set off frenzy. Spoke to someone close to Jimmy Garoppolo who had no knowledge of any trade and believes it's a hack. Alas, it's 5:26 am now & we're all up Source close to Jimmy Garoppolo: Instagram post appears to be a "prank/hack."  Re: a possible trade, source says, "not to my knowledge." And at around 7 a.m. ET on Friday, ESPN’s Adam Schefter—who has seemingly played a role in reporting every single NFL transaction made over the course of the last 24 hours—appeared to put the Garoppolo trade rumors to bed during an interview on the Boston radio show . He said Garoppolo’s IG post is "not real," and he reiterated that the Patriots have no interest in trading Garoppolo at this time. Adam Schefter on @KirkAndCallahan on Jimmy Garoppolo Instagram post: "You can relax, it's not real." On @KirkAndCallahan , Schefter said he got text yesterday from Pats source: "Does Cleveland know we're not trading Jimmy Garoppolo?" Schefter on @KirkAndCallahan : If they traded Jimmy Garoppolo & something were to happen to Tom Brady "they would be the Cleveland Browns." But the strangest part about the entire story is that, despite the frenzy his IG post caused, Garoppolo still hadn’t taken it down as of 8 a.m. ET on Friday morning. So what gives? Was he really hacked? Did one of his friends steal his phone and decide to mess with Pats fans' emotions? Or did Garoppolo himself put up the post as a joke? Whatever the case, everyone is waiting for him to wake up to provide some sort of explanation. I think we can all agree on one thing: Someone's really gotta wake up Jimmy Garoppolo this morning. #Patriots And until he does, the speculation surrounding Garoppolo's future with the Patriots is going to continue.

Did the Patriots decide to trade their backup quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo overnight without telling anyone about it? That’s what many NFL fans and members of the media were left to wonder early Friday morning when they woke up to find a bizarre Instagram post on Garoppolo’s verified account that indicated he might be on the move. The post featured a photo of Garoppolo holding the Lombardi Trophy after the Patriots’ Super Bowl win in February, and it included a caption that said: "So grateful for my time in New England. Peace out Boston."

So grateful for my time in New England. Peace out Boston ✌🏻 A post shared by Jimmy Garoppolo (@jimmypolo10) on Mar 10, 2017 at 12:55am PST

NFL fans, especially those in the New England area, started freaking out immediately after seeing the post, which went up at around 4 a.m. ET. While the Patriots have already come out and said that they have no interest in parting ways with Garoppolo this offseason, the Browns have reportedly been very interested in working out a deal for him. And Cleveland has stockpiled so many draft picks in recent years that it wouldn’t necessarily come as a surprise to hear that the Patriots had agreed to trade Garoppolo in exchange for a handful of those picks. So many Pats fans believed Garoppolo might be headed to the Browns or another NFL team in a trade after seeing his IG post.

But shortly after Garoppolo’s IG post started sending shockwaves through the NFL world, reporters began chiming in on it on social media and talking about how they hadn’t heard about any potential Garoppolo trades that were in the works. And before long, the belief throughout the league was that Garoppolo’s IG had been hacked and that there was not a trade in the works. Many reporters referred to the IG post as a prank or hoax.

Source close to Jimmy G: No knowledge of any trade. Believes Instagram post (https://t.co/HfFqiAKyI1)

is hoax/hack that has set off frenzy. — Mike Reiss (@MikeReiss) March 10, 2017

Spoke to someone close to Jimmy Garoppolo who had no knowledge of any trade and believes it's a hack. Alas, it's 5:26 am now & we're all up — Ian Rapoport (@RapSheet) March 10, 2017

Source close to Jimmy Garoppolo: Instagram post appears to be a "prank/hack."



Re: a possible trade, source says, "not to my knowledge." — Kevin Duffy (@KevinRDuffy) March 10, 2017

And at around 7 a.m. ET on Friday, ESPN’s Adam Schefter—who has seemingly played a role in reporting every single NFL transaction made over the course of the last 24 hours—appeared to put the Garoppolo trade rumors to bed during an interview on the Boston radio show Kirk & Callahan. He said Garoppolo’s IG post is "not real," and he reiterated that the Patriots have no interest in trading Garoppolo at this time.

Adam Schefter on @KirkAndCallahan on Jimmy Garoppolo Instagram post: "You can relax, it's not real." — Ryan Hannable (@RyanHannable) March 10, 2017 On @KirkAndCallahan, Schefter said he got text yesterday from Pats source: "Does Cleveland know we're not trading Jimmy Garoppolo?" — Ryan Hannable (@RyanHannable) March 10, 2017 Schefter on @KirkAndCallahan: If they traded Jimmy Garoppolo & something were to happen to Tom Brady "they would be the Cleveland Browns." — Ryan Hannable (@RyanHannable) March 10, 2017

But the strangest part about the entire story is that, despite the frenzy his IG post caused, Garoppolo still hadn’t taken it down as of 8 a.m. ET on Friday morning. So what gives? Was he really hacked? Did one of his friends steal his phone and decide to mess with Pats fans' emotions? Or did Garoppolo himself put up the post as a joke? Whatever the case, everyone is waiting for him to wake up to provide some sort of explanation.

I think we can all agree on one thing: Someone's really gotta wake up Jimmy Garoppolo this morning. #Patriots — Adam Kaufman (@AdamMKaufman) March 10, 2017

And until he does, the speculation surrounding Garoppolo's future with the Patriots is going to continue.