This woman gave up her porn career and became a pastor
This woman gave up her porn career and became a pastor
Earning between $20,000 to $30,000 ( £16,500 - £25,000), Bassette said “the only way I’m going to be able to numb myself is taking pain medicine and drinking alcohol to get through a scene”. I wouldn’t walk outside my house without showing cleavage, having a belly shirt on… high heel… I had a house in Malibu. I had a night club. I had seven cars – a Ferrari, two Escalades.  Her story begins with a move to Los Angeles along with her small son. Unable to make ends meet stripping, Bassette decided to do a one-off month of porn. That turned into over 100 movies. Bassette’s family were “good with it,” although her father found out she worked in the adult industry after finding her naked photograph in a magazine in his break room at work. In May 2014, after being involved in a car crash, her sister took her to a church she frequented. It was those visits that led to her leaving the adult industry, and also to becoming a pastor. Being a porn star and becoming a pastor – it’s like, I’m not worried about outlook appearance [sic] I’m not worried about money… Now I’m worried about helping people. After extensive therapy, she believes that the reason she was inclined towards a career in the sex industry is the result of sexual abuse. Bassette was five years old when she suffered sexual abuse over a period of “a couple of months”. The second incident happened when she was seven years old. Now, married and with another child, she's finally content. I can’t say that I really regret anything because it’s made me who I am today.                     Keep scrolling for next article

In a new video by Barcroft TV, former porn star Crystal Bassette talks about her journey from the sex industry to the church.

Earning between $20,000 to $30,000 ( £16,500 - £25,000), Bassette said “the only way I’m going to be able to numb myself is taking pain medicine and drinking alcohol to get through a scene”.

I wouldn’t walk outside my house without showing cleavage, having a belly shirt on… high heel… I had a house in Malibu. I had a night club. I had seven cars – a Ferrari, two Escalades.

Picture: Barcroft TV/ screengrab /Crystal Bassette

Her story begins with a move to Los Angeles along with her small son. Unable to make ends meet stripping, Bassette decided to do a one-off month of porn. That turned into over 100 movies.

Bassette’s family were “good with it,” although her father found out she worked in the adult industry after finding her naked photograph in a magazine in his break room at work.

In May 2014, after being involved in a car crash, her sister took her to a church she frequented. It was those visits that led to her leaving the adult industry, and also to becoming a pastor.

Being a porn star and becoming a pastor – it’s like, I’m not worried about outlook appearance [sic] I’m not worried about money… Now I’m worried about helping people.

What led her to a career in the sex industry?

After extensive therapy, she believes that the reason she was inclined towards a career in the sex industry is the result of sexual abuse.

Bassette was five years old when she suffered sexual abuse over a period of “a couple of months”. The second incident happened when she was seven years old.

Now, married and with another child, she's finally content.

I can’t say that I really regret anything because it’s made me who I am today.

You can watch the rest of her account, below:

HT Barcroft TV

More: This man has four legs and has begged doctors to cut them off

More: This woman was born with no vagina. She hopes to have children