Pikachu-themed batteries are being recalled because they overheat
Pikachu-themed batteries are being recalled because they overheat
Pikachu can't recharge your phone any more. The electric-type Pokémon — and the world's most recognisable electric rodent — is now the face of the latest battery-related product recall. SEE ALSO: 80 new Pokémon are coming to 'Pokémon Go' The Pokémon Company — which manages the Pokémon franchise — released a warning yesterday on its website (link in Japanese) regarding two of its Pokémon-themed batteries, which were adorned with an image of Pikachu and the series' Pokéballs. The Pokéball-themed battery. Image:  The Pokemon Company The Pikachu-themed battery. Image:  The Pokemon Company Users have observed the batteries becoming abnormally hot and generating smoke, according to . The Pokémon Company has asked owners to refrain from using the batteries, which were made in collaboration with Tokyo-based electronics retailer Near Direct. The batteries were only available through the Pokémon Center, Pokémon Store, Pokémon Center Online and Amazon in Japan, but have been found to be on sale on  Amazon overseas and eBay . Batteries that were on sale between Sep. 16, 2016, and Feb. 13. 2017, are affected by the recall. The Pokémon Company hasn't said if it would accept returns from overseas users. Japanese users can get a full refund of the battery's original price of 2,808 yen ($24.30) online here , or at Japanese Pokémon Center and Pokémon Store retail locations. WATCH: Pikachu looks amazing as a hologram

Pikachu can't recharge your phone any more.

The electric-type Pokémon — and the world's most recognisable electric rodent — is now the face of the latest battery-related product recall.

The Pokémon Company — which manages the Pokémon franchise — released a warning yesterday on its website (link in Japanese) regarding two of its Pokémon-themed batteries, which were adorned with an image of Pikachu and the series' Pokéballs.

The Pokéball-themed battery. Image: The Pokemon Company

The Pikachu-themed battery. Image: The Pokemon Company

Users have observed the batteries becoming abnormally hot and generating smoke, according to RocketNews24. The Pokémon Company has asked owners to refrain from using the batteries, which were made in collaboration with Tokyo-based electronics retailer Near Direct.

The batteries were only available through the Pokémon Center, Pokémon Store, Pokémon Center Online and Amazon in Japan, but have been found to be on sale on Amazon overseas and eBay. Batteries that were on sale between Sep. 16, 2016, and Feb. 13. 2017, are affected by the recall.

The Pokémon Company hasn't said if it would accept returns from overseas users. Japanese users can get a full refund of the battery's original price of 2,808 yen ($24.30) online here, or at Japanese Pokémon Center and Pokémon Store retail locations.