Two dead as ousting of South Korea's disgraced president Park Geun-hye sparks clashes
Two dead as ousting of South Korea's disgraced president Park Geun-hye sparks clashes
outh Korea’s President Park Geun-hye has become the country’s first democratically elected leader to be forced from office after judges voted unanimously to impeach her. The historic ruling triggered violent protests in the streets, with two people dying in clashes between demonstrators and police. Friday’s ruling from the highest court in the land follows an earlier impeachment decision by the parliament , and months of mass public protests over her role in a corruption scandal involving a close confidante, Choi Soon-sil. er dismissal thrusts the country into a rushed 60-day election campaign, leaving Seoul with a leadership vacuum at a time of heightened regional tension over missile tests by North Korea, the country's volatile neighbour. The personal costs of Park’s fall from grace may also be high. She loses her presidential immunity and can be prosecuted for her alleged collusion with Choi, who has been charged with bribery and corruption for reportedly pressuring big companies to give money in return for political favours. Park has been accused of taking secret advice from Choi, who had no official position, on everything from North Korea policy to her wardrobe choices. rosecutors have recommended a total of 13 charges against the former president, including abuse of power, coercion of donations and the sharing of state secrets. Both women deny wrongdoing, but calls for Park’s impeachment have been central to protests by millions of South Koreans in the past few months against a perceived nexus of corruption between the government and big business. he scale of the scandal, which implicates not only the country’s leadership, but huge companies including Samsung , has shaken South Korean society to the core. Reading the court’s verdict shortly after 11am, Chief Justice Lee Jung-Mi said the president’s actions had “betrayed the people’s confidence. They are a grave violation of law, which cannot be tolerated,” she said. udible gasps and cries of joy were heard in the courtroom as the verdict was delivered. Outside on the streets, thousands of Park's supporters angrily reacted to the verdict, shouting and hitting police officers with flag poles and climbing on buses the police used to create a perimeter protecting the court. One man in his 70s died from head wounds after falling from a police bus in front of the Constitutional Court.  South Korean police said a second person died in protests, but no more details were available. Despite the violence, John Delury, a professor of East Asian studies at Seoul’s Yonsei University, said he expected a more celebratory atmosphere this weekend. “A lot of the people who led this candlelight revolution are at work today. And honestly, the pro-Park stuff that you’re seeing is overwhelmingly elderly retired folks,” he said. Park’s ousting marks a dramatic downfall for the country’s first female president after she rose to power in 2013 pledging to fight political corruption. It also creates uncertainty in South Korea’s key relationship with Washington, just days after the US began to deploy its controversial new missile defence system, THAAD, to the Korean peninsula, prompting threats of Chinese retaliation. resh elections are expected in May, and polls suggest that the country will take a new political direction, opting for the progressive Democratic party candidate Moon Jae-in over the conservatives once ruled by Park. oon is expected to take a more conciliatory approach towards North Korea. He has previously called for dialogue with Pyongyang, rather than the more hardline approach favoured by the conservative governments that have held power since 2008. “I think it’s a good thing. From a US perspective, the only way you are going to make headway on a problem like North Korea’s nuclear weapons is to start talking with them,” said Delury. “A South Korean government that is engaged on North Korea, focusing on it, and has better channels to the North, and uses economic influence, is ultimately a stabilising factor for the region, and can support US policy if they are co-ordinated.” Speculation is rising this weekend over the fate of Park, 65, who is the daughter of former military dictator, Park Chung-hee, who ruled South Korea from 1961 until 1979, when he was assassinated by his own spy chief. Despite her rise to power, his daughter has long been viewed as a tragic figure, estranged from her siblings and traumatised by the earlier murder of her mother who was accidentally shot by a North Korean sympathiser in 1974, forcing Park to become acting first lady aged just 22. t was around this time that Choi Soon-sil’s father, religious cult leader Choi Tae-min, who is known as the country’s “Rasputin”, became the young Park’s mentor. A US embassy cable released years later by WikiLeaks described his “complete control over the body and soul” of Park in her “formative” political years. Park reportedly believed that he could communicate with her dead mother. ate last year, the public was shocked to learn that 40 years later, the cult leader’s daughter had allegedly taken on his mantle as the shadowy power behind the throne. Choi Soon-sil was said to move freely around Seoul’s seat of power, the Blue House, despite having no security clearance. Allegations emerged that she had used her unfettered access to the president to extract donations for her private foundations and favours for her family from some of South Korea’s biggest companies and institutions. She has been accused of receiving about $70 million in bribes from corporate giants including Samsung. The trial of Samsung chief, Lee Jae-yong, began on Thursday, on a string of corruption charges including bribery and embezzlement. Lee denies all charges, but has admitted that Samsung gave a $900,000 horse to Choi’s daughter, Chung Yoo-ra, for her Olympic ambitions. eparate allegations that Choi exploited her position to gain preferential treatment for Chung at the prestigious Ewha Women’s University in Seoul resulted in mass student protests and the resignation of the institution’s president, Choi Kyung-hee. Throughout the scandal, President Park has denied wrongdoing and apologised publicly for putting “too much faith in a personal relationship”. But the scale of the corruption and cronyism accusations has left little room for public sympathy about her tragic past. “On the one hand she is deeply unpopular, if not reviled in many quarters. She was very stubborn in how she approached this whole process. She did not co-operate with the investigation,” said Delury. “Countering all of that, I think a lot of people want to move on.”

Moon is expected to take a more conciliatory approach towards North Korea. He has previously called for dialogue with Pyongyang, rather than the more hardline approach favoured by the conservative governments that have held power since 2008.

“I think it’s a good thing. From a US perspective, the only way you are going to make headway on a problem like North Korea’s nuclear weapons is to start talking with them,” said Delury.

“A South Korean government that is engaged on North Korea, focusing on it, and has better channels to the North, and uses economic influence, is ultimately a stabilising factor for the region, and can support US policy if they are co-ordinated.”

Speculation is rising this weekend over the fate of Park, 65, who is the daughter of former military dictator, Park Chung-hee, who ruled South Korea from 1961 until 1979, when he was assassinated by his own spy chief.

Despite her rise to power, his daughter has long been viewed as a tragic figure, estranged from her siblings and traumatised by the earlier murder of her mother who was accidentally shot by a North Korean sympathiser in 1974, forcing Park to become acting first lady aged just 22.