22 Year Old Mira Rajput Spoke About Being A Proud Homemaker But Her Views Might Offend People!
22 Year Old Mira Rajput Spoke About Being A Proud Homemaker But Her Views Might Offend People!
22 Year Old Mira Rajput Spoke About Being A Proud Homemaker But Her Views Might Offend People! Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput's wedding has been under a scanner since the day they made an official announcement about it. A lot of people had some really nasty opinions on how Shahid's choice of marrying Mira is regressive. Especially, after their grand stint on KJo's chat show Koffee With Karan, the couple received a lot of flak. (Also read: Shahid-Mira’s Love Story On 'Koffee With Karan' Somehow Gave The Best Start To The New Year ) Dodging all the accusations, Shahid Kapoor had even clarified that no one has the right to comment on their personal choices, which sure was fair. (Also read: Shahid Kapoor Slams Trolls Targeting Him And Calling Him 'Regressive' For Marrying Mira !) Recently, Mira Rajput was invited as one of the speakers at an event on the occasion of Women’s day. Talking about arranged marriage, raising her daughter Misha and a lot of other things, Mira had a lot to say. However, we doubt if her views would go down too well with working women because her views might slightly offend a lot of people. Talking about the whole arrange marriage set up and why it has worked wonderfully for her and Shahid, she said, Talking about being a proud homemaker, she said,

Shahid Kapoor and Mira Rajput's wedding has been under a scanner since the day they made an official announcement about it.

A lot of people had some really nasty opinions on how Shahid's choice of marrying Mira is regressive. Especially, after their grand stint on KJo's chat show Koffee With Karan, the couple received a lot of flak.

(Also read: Shahid-Mira’s Love Story On 'Koffee With Karan' Somehow Gave The Best Start To The New Year)

Dodging all the accusations, Shahid Kapoor had even clarified that no one has the right to comment on their personal choices, which sure was fair.

(Also read: Shahid Kapoor Slams Trolls Targeting Him And Calling Him 'Regressive' For Marrying Mira!)

Instagram

Recently, Mira Rajput was invited as one of the speakers at an event on the occasion of Women’s day. Talking about arranged marriage, raising her daughter Misha and a lot of other things, Mira had a lot to say.

Twitter

However, we doubt if her views would go down too well with working women because her views might slightly offend a lot of people.

Talking about the whole arrange marriage set up and why it has worked wonderfully for her and Shahid, she said,

Indiatimes

“Why not? You have to meet someone in some way! This worked for us so beautifully because we both laid our cards right in the beginning. We were ourselves right from the beginning and there was a different kind of discovery after marriage but there was no negative surprise. I understood the role I had to take on and he (Shahid) understood that he had to become a part of my life. Both of us have given and taken a lot from each other and we have become more wholesome. It’s two halves that make a whole.”

Talking about being a proud homemaker, she said,

Indiatimes

“I am a homemaker and I wear this label with pride. I had a tough pregnancy and I went through those difficult five months to bring my daughter into this world. And now I want to spend every moment I can with her. There is a set of responsibilities that are on my plate and I feel at my age I have a lot more energy. My future is ahead of me. I can finish all my responsibilities and then I will have nothing in my way. I can raise my daughter, be a good wife, and set up my home the way I like. I wouldn’t have it any other way. I wouldn’t want to spend one hour a day with my child and then rush off to work. Why did I have her then? She is not a puppy. I want to be there for her as a mother. Seeing her grow up can not be quantified."

Don't Miss 49 K SHARES 29.7 K SHARES 25.8 K SHARES 20.5 K SHARES 16.6 K SHARES

Talking about fat-shaming of new mothers and how homemakers deserve as much respect as working women do, she added,

Indiatimes

“It’s great to be fit but it’s better to be a healthy mother. There is a lot of pressure, I faced a lot of pressure (of body shaming) but I feel you can take time to lose that weight. It’s just not about physical, but mental health as well. You need to come to terms with the fact that your body is going to be different for a certain amount of time. I took those 40 days of confinement after delivery, which people say is outdated, and I had my ghee because I gave a lot to give birth. I loved being pampered. And Empowerment means you have the right to choose. So it is my choice if I want to be at home. And it’s someone else’s choice if they want to be a working mother. But both are equally valid and neither of them should be shamed.”

She also had a lot to say about feminism. She said,

Twitter

“Feminism isn’t woman VS man. It’s about equality. A new wave of feminism has come that is aggressive… I feel it’s destructive. There’s a new term called ‘feminazi’, which is the female equivalent of a chauvinist. I think there should be harmony between the two sexes and an equilibrium.”

Watch the entire video right here