'I've lost will to live': Heartbreaking note offers clue to identity of 'suicide victim' who lost family in Japanese tsunami
'I've lost will to live': Heartbreaking note offers clue to identity of 'suicide victim' who lost family in Japanese tsunami
town in northern Japan has appealed for relatives of a man who apparently committed suicide in the aftermath of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami to come forward and claim his remains. The man's skeletal body was only discovered in February under a motorway bridge in the town of Itoigawa, in Niigata Prefecture. Local officials believe the man would have been in his 70s when he died and had fled from the town of Rikuzentakata, in Iwate Prefecture, one of the hardest hit communities by the Great East Japan Earthquake . They have not, however, been able to conclusively identify him , the Mainichi newspaper reported. he town hall has released a photo of a backpack found with the body, as well as a note that provides a hint as to the man's identity, in the hope that family members will come forward. "I am originally from Rikuzentakata ", the partially illegible note reads. "I lost my family in the tsunami and still can't ... them. I have lost the will to live". The man's body was cremated after being found and is presently being held at a funeral hall in the city. apan will on Saturday mark the sixth anniversary of the earthquake and tsunami that devastated large parts of the north-east of the country. The worst natural disaster to strike Japan in living memory caused nearly 16,000 confirmed deaths, while more than 2,500 people are still officially listed as missing . At a ceremony on Saturday, Shinzo Abe, the prime minister, will express his condolences for the loss of life but emphasise the progress that is being made in rebuilding the communities of north-east Japan that bore the brunt of the tragedy.

A town in northern Japan has appealed for relatives of a man who apparently committed suicide in the aftermath of the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami to come forward and claim his remains.

The man's skeletal body was only discovered in February under a motorway bridge in the town of Itoigawa, in Niigata Prefecture.

Local officials believe the man would have been in his 70s when he died and had fled from the town of Rikuzentakata, in Iwate Prefecture, one of the hardest hit communities by the Great East Japan Earthquake.

They have not, however, been able to conclusively identify him, the Mainichi newspaper reported.