South China Sea dispute sees sea cucumber fishermen 'forced into Australian waters'



South China Sea dispute sees sea cucumber fishermen 'forced into Australian waters'

Updated

Territorial disputes in the South China Sea are cited in a Darwin court as the reason a group of Vietnamese men caught fishing illegally came all the way to Australia

This week the three Vietnamese fishermen were imprisoned in Darwin after being caught collecting huge quantities of sea cucumber in a marine park off Queensland's coast in February.

The men were intercepted near Saumarez Reef in the Coral Sea Marine Reserve with seven tonnes of the prized sea creature packed away in 30 barrels.

"We've seen a recent spike in activity in Australian waters by Vietnamese vessels," said Peter Venslovas from the Australian Fisheries Management Authority (AFMA).

"We've had 13 apprehensions in the last 11 months. And that is a recent phenomenon."

A hotbed of territorial disputes in the South China Sea is the Spratly Islands, which several countries claim parts of — and China claims all of.

'Forced to seek fish away from Spratly Islands'

The Darwin Local Court heard the men claim they had been pushed from their traditional fishing territory in the Spratly Islands over the past few years by China, which now controls parts of the region.

They said that forced them to fish further afield in neighbouring countries – including as far south as Australia.

The judge noted Australia was very far from Vietnam, and Mr Venslovas from AFMA said: "They're not subsistence fishermen; they're in it for the dollars."

Nearly 30 fishermen were found on two boats off the Queensland coast on February 15, and this week 14 of them faced court in Darwin for illegally capturing sea cucumber in Australian waters.

All pleaded guilty.

Lawyer says none of fishermen able to pay fine

Most of the 14 men were aged in their 20s and the court heard all were illiterate, had only ever worked as fishermen, and had been living in poverty in Vietnam with parents, wives or children to support.

Their lawyer, Lyma Nguyen, asked for leniency given their disadvantaged background, and said some crew did not know what they were getting in for.

"There is a level of naivete with these fishermen, with just simply going along and not asking questions," she told the court.

She said none had the ability to pay any fine imposed.

Judge John Neill rejected claims the men did not know they were in Australian waters.

"These men are fishermen, they know the seas. Please."

'A slap on the wrist would not be enough'

Eleven were handed suspended prison sentences because they were first-time offenders.

Mr Neill said he was "sympathetic to the extreme hardship these men experience in their lives" but a "slap on the wrist" would not be enough for repeat offenders.

Two crew members received four months' jail time and another received six months.

The boat was intercepted at the same time and place as another Vietnamese fishing boat also allegedly illegally harvesting sea cucumbers.

That crew is due to face court later this month.

Topics: illegal-fishing, world-politics, law-crime-and-justice, darwin-0800, qld, china, vietnam

First posted