4 Solutions to Common Tax Issues
4 Solutions to Common Tax Issues
Nina Olson is the IRS National Taxpayer Advocate for TAS. According to Olson, TAS handles between 200,000-250,000 cases each year and resolves 80% of them. Olson shared four common problems taxpayers face and the best ways to solve them. Long wait times and getting automatically disconnected after a certain period of time, what Olson calls a “courtesy disconnect,” leave taxpayers frustrated and without the answers they need. While Olson said the IRS has improved and has a dedicated phone number for tax law questions, she said taxpayers should be prepared to wait. “The IRS is doing better this year than they did last year, but there’s still a fair amount of frustration.” Why wait? Tips for filing your tax return early 5 tax changes you need to know about for the 2017 filing season The best way to spend your 2017 tax refund

If you have questions and concerns about filing your taxes, you’re not alone. The IRS receives more than 100 million phone calls, 10 million letters, and 5 million visits at its walk-in sites from taxpayers each year, according to IRS.gov. But if you’re unable to resolve your question or issue with the IRS, there’s another resource affiliated with the IRS that offers free help for your tax problems: The TaxPayer Advocate Service (TAS).

Nina Olson is the IRS National Taxpayer Advocate for TAS. According to Olson, TAS handles between 200,000-250,000 cases each year and resolves 80% of them. Olson shared four common problems taxpayers face and the best ways to solve them.

#1: Taxpayers can’t reach the IRS

Olson says a common problem she hears from taxpayers is an inability to actually reach a person at the IRS. “What I hear from taxpayers a lot is just frustration about being able to get through to the IRS on the phone,” Olson said.

Long wait times and getting automatically disconnected after a certain period of time, what Olson calls a “courtesy disconnect,” leave taxpayers frustrated and without the answers they need. While Olson said the IRS has improved and has a dedicated phone number for tax law questions, she said taxpayers should be prepared to wait. “The IRS is doing better this year than they did last year, but there’s still a fair amount of frustration.”

Sometimes taxpayers call with basic questions about their filing status, or they may have more complicated issues to address like identity theft. “There are times when you really have to talk to the IRS to find out what’s going on and you just have to suffer through those phone calls,” Olson said. “I like to tell people to do other work while you’re on the phones.” Olson also recommends calling at off-peak times, such as first thing in the morning, before lunch or in mid-afternoon.

#2: Taxpayers don’t understand the notices the IRS sends

When people receive notices from the IRS, many times they have no idea what to do. Usually, their first instinct is to call the IRS, repeating the cycle of call backlog and frustration.

“Sometimes, it’s not clear what they need to do or why they’re getting the notice [from the IRS] in the first place,” Olson said. “So the taxpayer will call and say, ‘I got this notice, what is it telling me to do?’ So there you’ve lead to more phone calls and a lack of clarity.”

Another major problem is decoding tax speak. Tax law is complicated, and Olson says it’s difficult for the IRS to put notices into language a layperson can understand. “That’s very frustrating for the IRS and for the taxpayer. So then the taxpayer writes. But in the meantime, you’re sitting there waiting for a response, so then you call back again. You can see how that builds up,” Olson said.

TAS can be a helpful resource for people in these situations. When a person calls TAS, they’re assigned to one representative to work with him or her from start to finish, without the dreaded “courtesy disconnect.”

“We’re able to cut through some of the red tape, get an answer, figure out the steps that need to be done and get the process underway,” Olson said.

Olson also said TAS is working on a website that would have a resource for each kind of IRS notice. “Every IRS notice has a number, and [taxpayers] can put that number in [the site] and we will have a plain language page on what this notice is about, what they need to do, what it is trying to say, and what their rights are in respect to that notice,” Olson said. TAS plans to have the site up by the end of the year.

#3: Identity Theft

Identity theft is rampant in the United States. The Bureau of Justice reported that 7% of Americans experience at least one incident of identity theft each year. The IRS has cracked down on tax-related identity theft, such as when someone uses your stolen Social Security number to file a tax return for a fraudulent refund. In 2016, the IRS reported a staggering 50% drop in the number of people who filed cases saying they were victims of identity theft. They also reported a 50% drop in the number of fraudulent tax returns filed with the IRS.

To do your part to help limit identity theft, Olson says to avoid giving out your Social Security number. “Anytime you put your Social Security number out there, there’s a risk to it being compromised,” Olson said. “So be very careful about where you’re putting it out there. It’s one little measure you can take.”

Read More