Adventurer, 42, crosses Atlantic on a PADDLEBOARD
Adventurer, 42, crosses Atlantic with a PADDLEBOARD in 93 days


A South African man has become the first person to cross the Atlantic Ocean on a stand-up paddleboard.

Chris Bertish, 42, completed the gruelling 4,050-mile solo voyage on Thursday, arriving in Antigua after 93 days at sea.

The big-wave surfer and sailor battled storms, equipment failures, loneliness and shark encounters on his epic journey from Agadir, Morocco.

In his final 'captain's log', written on Facebook roughly an hour before he completed the world record, Bertish wrote: 'A day I have been working toward for as long as I can remember… I've put everything on the line for this project for the last five years… everything!'

Scroll down for video

Chris Bertish has become the first person to cross the Atlantic Ocean on a stand-up paddleboard. He is pictured being greeted by boats as he neared Antigua this week

Chris Bertish 42, completed the gruelling 4,050-mile solo voyage on Thursday, arriving in Antigua after 93 days at sea. He is pictured 205 nautical miles from Antigua

Choppy waters: The big-wave surfer and sailor battled storms, equipment failures, loneliness and shark encounters on his epic journey from Agadir, Morocco

He added: 'I raise my paddle with one hand above my head and from deep within me… I let out a roar'.

Covering an average of 43 miles a day, the adventurer mainly paddled at night to avoid sun exposure. He slept in a tiny-bullet-shaped cabin at the front of the 20-ft custom-made craft, which was fitted with solar panels and satellite communication systems.

Along the way, he set another world record for the furthest distance travelled solo, unsupported and unassisted over open ocean in a day, 71.96 miles.

Stand-up paddle boarding (SUP), as it is known, is essentially rowing standing up, where a paddle is used to propel one's self through the water. The sport originated in Hawaii and has become popular around the world, practiced by celebrities and fitness gurus such as Jennifer Aniston and Cindy Crawford.

Bertish's custom-built vessel, which he named the ImpiFish, was constructed by British boat designer and naval architect, Phil Morrison. It cost $120,000 (£99,000) and took six months to build.

93 DAYS, 4,050 MILES AND A £100,000 PADDLEBOARD · Chris Bertish embarked from Agadir, Morocco on December 6, skirting the Canary Islands before braving the open ocean and finishing in Antigua in the Caribbean on Thursday, March 9 · The 4,050-mile voyage took 93 days, averaging a distance of 43 miles a day. He pushed hard over the final three days, covering 125 nautical miles · Bertish made an estimated two million paddle strokes during the journey · Along the way, he set another world record for the furthest distance travelled solo, unsupported and unassisted over open ocean in a day, 71.96 miles · The 42-year-old mainly paddled at night to avoid too much sun exposure. He slept in a tiny, bullet-shaped cabin at the front of the 20-ft custom-made craft · The vessel, which he named the ImpiFish, was constructed by British boat designer and naval architect, Phil Morrison. It cost $120,000 (£99,000) and took six months to build · Four ports in the deck were used to store supplies such as protein shakes, freeze-dried meals and salty jerky, along with 50 litres of emergency water · A bank of solar panels on top of the cabin provided the energy to power and recharge the electronics on board – including a hand-held radio, satellite phone, back up phone, MacBook laptop and GPS · During storms, anchors could be used to stabilise the craft, which was capable of righting itself when capsized · Bertish now holds the Guinness World Record for being the first person to cross the Atlantic Ocean on a stand-up paddleboard, solo · The most recent attempt, last year, ended with the 'captain', Frenchman Nicolas Jarossay, being dragged from the sea by rescuers just one night into the journey

Covering an average of 43 miles a day, the adventurer mainly paddled at night to avoid sun exposure. He slept in a tiny-bullet-shaped cabin at the front of the 20-ft custom-made craft, which was fitted with solar panels and satellite communication systems

Along the way, he set another world record for the furthest distance travelled solo, unsupported and unassisted over open ocean in a day, 71.96 miles

During storms, the 42-year-old used anchors to stabilise the craft, which was capable of righting itself when capsized.

Four ports in the deck were used to store supplies such as protein shakes, freeze-dried meals and salty jerky, along with 50 litres of emergency water.

Bertish embarked from Agadir, Morocco on December 6, skirting the Canary Islands before braving the open ocean and finishing in Antigua in the Caribbean on Thursday, March 9.

Along the way he posted regular updates of his progress and adventures on social media, from turtle encounters to ringing in the New Year on board with a dram of scotch.

In one 'captain's log' on Facebook, he recalled his terrifying cross with a 15ft great white shark as he filled his 'precious little water bottle' from the sea. Thankfully the creature changed its mind at the last minute and did not attack.

The first few weeks of his expedition were some of the hardest. Speaking to a New Zealand surfing magazine during the voyage, Bertish told how he was forced to battle a strong current and the 'scariest weather conditions imaginable'.

He suffered a string of failures with the vessel and came close to sinking when caught in a storm near rocks off the Canary Islands. 'The hatch was leaking, and I was running out of water. I thought I was going to sink.' Bertish said.

He also experienced medical problems, including a torn rotator cuff.

Bertish's custom-built vessel, which he named the ImpiFish, was constructed by British boat designer and naval architect, Phil Morrison. It cost $120,000 (£99,000) and took six months to build

The 42-year-old pushed hard over the final three days of his voyage, covering 125 nautical miles.

He pulled into Antigua on Thursday at 8:32am local time, meaning he now holds the Guinness World Record for being the first person to cross the Atlantic Ocean by paddle board, solo. The most recent attempt ended with the 'captain', Frenchman Nicolas Jarossay, being dragged from the sea by rescuers just one night into the journey.

Bertish, who won the renowned Mavericks surf competition in California in 2010, is no stranger to a challenge. In 2013, he set the world record for open ocean SUP in South Africa and the fastest time crossing the English Channel on an SUP (5 hours, 26 minutes).

His Atlantic crossing raised the equivalent of more than £339,000 for three charities, the Signature of Hope Trust, the Lunchbox Foundation and Operation Smile. This is enough to build at least five schools in South Africa, provide monthly dividends to feed and educate thousands of children and pay for life-changing cleft lip and palate operations.