Scam can steal your PIN code in seconds, say scientists
Scientists reveal how thieves can steal your pin code in seconds


Thieves have uncovered a new way to find out your smartphone pin code.

After you tap in the digits, scammers can use thermal camera to take picture of the heat marks from where your fingers have just tapped the screen.

They can even work out the order that you typed in your code because each heat spot gets fainter over time.

And Android users who use a finger-drawn pattern to unlock their phone are the highest risk of falling victim to this new scam, scientists have revealed.

Scroll down for video

When you tap in your PIN code, your fingers leave traces of heat on your screen (pictured). Thieves can capture these marks using a thermal camera

THE SCAM When you tap in your PIN code, your fingers leave traces of heat on your screen. Scammers can use thermal cameras to quickly take a snapshot of your PIN seconds after you've tapped it in. The thermal images are then subjected to a six-stage process, where the colour image is converted into grayscale and stripped to leave only the heat spots. The final step is to work out how much each circle has faded over time - to unveil the likely order that the passcode was typed in. The process can also be used to work out the hand-drawn pattern Android users use to unlock their phone.

'The increasing amount of sensitive data available on personal mobile devices, such as personal photos, call logs, bank accounts, and emails underlines the need to secure them against various kinds of malicious attacks,' the scientists from the University of Stuttgart, Germany, said in a research paper.

'The usable security community lately focused on investigating different user-centered attacks, such as shouldersurfing and smudge attacks.

'At the same time, a new threat emerged which received only little attention so far from the research community, that is, thermal attacks on touch screens of mobile devices.

'The past years have witnessed portable thermal cameras becoming available on the mass market, in personal mobile devices such as CAT S601, or as attachable accessories for mobile devices.'

To understand how the scam works, the researchers developed a six-stage technique for stealing PIN codes.

Android users who use a finger-drawn pattern (pictured) to unlock their phone are the highest risk of falling victim to this new scam, scientists have revealed

First, a thermal camera set to detect temperatures between 19 degrees Celsius (66F) and 32 degrees Celsius (90F) takes a snap of an phone screen immediately after a code is entered.

Then software is used to convert the colour image into grayscale and reduce background noise.

A two-stage process is then used to strip out the image to leave only the heat spots left by someone tapping in their pincode.

The main features of the heat spots are then extracted to leave a picture showing four circles.

Scammers can use software to make the heat marks left by someone tapping in their code more clear. Above: a PIN code and hand-drawn passcode are shown after frame extraction (left) and camera configuration techniques (right)

The heat marks become even clearer after background noise is filtered out (left), the image is stripped down to remove the background (middle) and feature detection is applied (right)

THE SOLUTION The scientists have suggested a simple technique to combat thermal attacks. While users are typing in their PIN code, they should place their entire hand over the screen to create a pattern of random heat spots, the researchers said. 'Placing the hand on the display might remove all thermal traces,' the researchers said. Android users can significantly reduce their chances of getting scammed by introducing an overlap to their finger-drawn pattern. This will make it harder for thieves to work out in what order the pattern was drawn. 'Our results indicate that adding a single overlap in an authentication pattern significantly increases the resistance to thermal attacks,' the researchers said.

The final step is to work out how much each circle has faded over time - to unveil the likely order that the passcode was typed in.

Scientists found that when this process is applied, they could guess a user's PIN 90 per cent of the time - if the thermal image was taken within 15 seconds of a PIN being tapped in.

For Android users who use finger-drawn patterns, the scientists could guess the right shape 100 per cent of the time, even if a thermal image was snapped 30 seconds after a user drew it onto their phone screen.

But the scientists have suggested a simple technique to combat thermal attacks.

While users are typing in their PIN code, they should place their entire hand over the screen to create a pattern of random heat spots, the researchers said.

'Placing the hand on the display might remove all thermal traces,' the researchers said.

'However, there are different procedures that decrease the success rate of thermal attacks without involving the user.

'For example, increasing the brightness of the display to the maximum for a few seconds heats up the display temperature and, thus, reduces the time thermal traces are visible.

'Similarly, running computationally heavy processes on the phone quickly heats the phone up, resulting in a similar effect.'

Android users can significantly reduce their chances of getting scammed by introducing an overlap to their finger-drawn pattern.

This will make it harder for thieves to work out in what order the pattern was drawn.

'Our results indicate that adding a single overlap in an authentication pattern significantly increases the resistance to thermal attacks,' the researchers said.