Farewell post on Instagram of New England Patriots QB Jimmy Garoppolo sends social media buzzing
Post on Garoppolo account sets off frenzy
Post on Garoppolo account sets off frenzy Barnwell grades the big free-agent deals Cowboys suffer losses to open free agency, but hope isn't lost yet Would keeping Brock Osweiler for a year be a bad idea? NFL Day 1 free agency: Winners and losers Frank Kalil: 'Surreal deal' to have sons Matt and Ryan playing for Panthers Biggest free-agency move so far for all 32 NFL teams If healthy, Woodhead can be third-down monster for Ravens Will Paul DePodesta and Moneyball work in Cleveland? Vince Young signs with Saskatchewan of CFL Rams solidify LT with Whitworth signing Free-agent loser? Andy Dalton loses two linemen after 41 sacks in 2016 Adrian Peterson, in free agency for first time, faces a new world Myriad of trades helped put Patriots in position to acquire Dwayne Allen Big OT Rick Wagner will improve Lions run game, protect Matthew Stafford Dolphins keep starting defensive line by retaining Andre Branch Why you should take those combine numbers with a grain of salt Panthers get defensive end Charles Johnson for another bargain Mike Reiss tells Mike & Mike his sources are saying there is no movement on a potential Jimmy Garoppolo trade from the Patriots. (1:21) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment An early-morning Instagram post on the verified account of Patriots quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo saying farewell to New England sent social media buzzing, but a source close to Garoppolo told ESPN's Mike Reiss that he believed it was a "hack" or "hoax" while adding "not to my knowledge" when asked about a potential trade. As of 9:25 a.m. ET, the post, which read "So grateful for my time in New England. Peace out Boston" has been deleted. The post went up at roughly 4 a.m. ET. Sources have told ESPN's Adam Schefter the Patriots intend to keep Garappolo for 2017 and possibly beyond with Tom Brady turning 40 this summer. There are "no trade talks" involving Garoppolo and the Cleveland Browns at this time, sources told ESPN's Josina Anderson. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Mike Reiss tells Mike & Mike his sources are saying there is no movement on a potential Jimmy Garoppolo trade from the Patriots. (1:21)

An early-morning Instagram post on the verified account of Patriots quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo saying farewell to New England sent social media buzzing, but a source close to Garoppolo told ESPN's Mike Reiss that he believed it was a "hack" or "hoax" while adding "not to my knowledge" when asked about a potential trade.

As of 9:25 a.m. ET, the post, which read "So grateful for my time in New England. Peace out Boston" has been deleted.

The post went up at roughly 4 a.m. ET.

Sources have told ESPN's Adam Schefter the Patriots intend to keep Garappolo for 2017 and possibly beyond with Tom Brady turning 40 this summer.

There are "no trade talks" involving Garoppolo and the Cleveland Browns at this time, sources told ESPN's Josina Anderson.