Badrinath Ki Dulhania Review: With All Its Flaws, The Alia Bhatt-Varun Dhawan Starrer Is Genuinely Funny And Definitely Watchable
With All Its Flaws, Badrinath Ki Dulhania Is Genuinely Funny And Definitely Watchable!
Badrinath Ki Dulhania Review: With All Its Flaws, The Alia Bhatt-Varun Dhawan Starrer Is Genuinely Funny And Definitely Watchable Summary: The best thing about is its script. The next best thing is Varun Dhawan. Varun gets into the skin of simple, small town boy Badri with exceptional ease. Just like Badri's character, the film at the outset seems funny and frivolous, but as we proceed, both the film and Badri's character surprises us with a lot of depth. Badrinath Bansal from Jhansi comes from a nauseatingly rigid patriarchal family and he doesn't bother breaking his head over his stubborn father's outrageously sexist decisions, which other family members meekly accept along with him, until he falls in love with the aggressively ambitious girl from Kota, Vaidehi Tiwari (Alia Bhatt). Badri wants to marry her and Vaidehi doesn't reciprocate his feelings. Vaidehi, who's apparently more mature and educated than Badri, has bigger plans than just getting married and producing children. While Badri and Vaidehi's unique love story seems to be struggling to get off the ground, the film seamlessly weaves in an important social issue of dowry.  Khaitan, who's also written the story and script, uses the powerful tool of humour to drive home certain grossly unfair practices towards women that our society still indulges in. Shashank Khaitan draws a delightful picture of the dilemma of a small town boy caught between the strong headed girl he loves and the regressive mindset of his egoistic father. It is also to his credit that instead of preaching, he takes us through this story with the aid of a lot of genuinely funny moments and dialogues. It is sheer pleasure to see Varun and Alia's crackling chemistry on screen. Obviously very comfortable with each other, when these two come together on the screen others fade into the shadows. Alia is good as usual, but this time pales in comparison to Varun Dhawan.  The rest of the cast gives good support too. A special mention has to be made of Sahil Ved, who plays Badri's best friend. While you breezily go past the first half of the film which raises a lot of chuckles, the second half disappoints a bit as it loses a bit of steam, with a totally disposable party song thrown in which slows it down even more.

Badrinath Ki Dulhania Review: With All Its Flaws, The Alia Bhatt-Varun Dhawan Starrer Is Genuinely Funny And Definitely Watchable Hindi 3.5/5 Drama Romance 0 % 0 Votes WILL WATCH (0) MAY BE (0) WON'T WATCH (0) Thank You For Selecting Your Interest, We Have Recorded Successfully

Summary:

The best thing about Badrinath Ki Dulhania is its script. The next best thing is Varun Dhawan. Varun gets into the skin of simple, small town boy Badri with exceptional ease. Just like Badri's character, the film at the outset seems funny and frivolous, but as we proceed, both the film and Badri's character surprises us with a lot of depth.

Badrinath Bansal from Jhansi comes from a nauseatingly rigid patriarchal family and he doesn't bother breaking his head over his stubborn father's outrageously sexist decisions, which other family members meekly accept along with him, until he falls in love with the aggressively ambitious girl from Kota, Vaidehi Tiwari (Alia Bhatt).

Badri wants to marry her and Vaidehi doesn't reciprocate his feelings. Vaidehi, who's apparently more mature and educated than Badri, has bigger plans than just getting married and producing children.

While Badri and Vaidehi's unique love story seems to be struggling to get off the ground, the film seamlessly weaves in an important social issue of dowry. Khaitan, who's also written the story and script, uses the powerful tool of humour to drive home certain grossly unfair practices towards women that our society still indulges in.

Shashank Khaitan draws a delightful picture of the dilemma of a small town boy caught between the strong headed girl he loves and the regressive mindset of his egoistic father. It is also to his credit that instead of preaching, he takes us through this story with the aid of a lot of genuinely funny moments and dialogues.

It is sheer pleasure to see Varun and Alia's crackling chemistry on screen. Obviously very comfortable with each other, when these two come together on the screen others fade into the shadows.

Alia is good as usual, but this time pales in comparison to Varun Dhawan. The rest of the cast gives good support too. A special mention has to be made of Sahil Ved, who plays Badri's best friend.

While you breezily go past the first half of the film which raises a lot of chuckles, the second half disappoints a bit as it loses a bit of steam, with a totally disposable party song thrown in which slows it down even more.

Don't Miss 49.1 K SHARES 31.8 K SHARES 27 K SHARES 24 K SHARES 16.8 K SHARES

However, Badrinath Ki Dulhania is genuinely funny, definitely watchable, has good performances and speaks up against a social evil. Enough reasons to watch it at least once.

All images Courtesy: Screen Grab/youtube

Synopsis:

Lead Cast: