South Korea, Republican Party, Jobs Report: Your Friday Briefing
South Korea, Republican Party, Jobs Report: Your Friday Briefing
President Trump heads into the weekend hoping to win over conservatives and senators unhappy with the House Republican health plan. He is expected to hold rallies around the country in the coming weeks to build support for the bill. On Thursday, two important House committees approved the legislation, which would undo the Affordable Care Act and roll back the expansion of Medicaid. That was a Justice Department official’s response when asked if Mr. Trump was the subject of an investigation . Advertisement The official added that the White House press secretary had not relied on any information from the department when he denied the existence of such an inquiry. Last weekend, the president accused his predecessor of tapping his phones, but he provided no evidence. Advertisement In a first in the nation, a court removed the president, Park Geun-hye , today for committing “acts that violated the Constitution and laws.” The downfall of Ms. Park, who has pressed for a hard line against North Korea’s nuclear provocations, is expected to shift power to the opposition, whose leaders want more engagement with Pyongyang. Julian Assange, whose WikiLeaks organization released documents this week that appeared to reveal cyberweapons used by the C.I.A., says he is prepared to share leaked computer code with companies like Apple and Google, to help them fix security flaws. Advertisement The C.I.A. is also facing an attempt by the Trump administration to block the testimony of top officials in a federal lawsuit against two psychologists who helped run the agency’s harsh interrogation program. A peace deal reached with rebels last year has paved the way for the government and international corporations to get involved in the production of the crop . Advertisement In today’s episode, we talk with a doctor who works in rural West Virginia about what the repeal of Obamacare might mean for his patients. Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Listen from a computer , on an iOS device or on an Android device . Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Business by 235,000 jobs in February , the first full month under the Trump administration. Advertisement A new study has found that men moving into traditionally female jobs tend to be disadvantaged in the labor market in terms of race and class. Advertisement companies avoided paying taxes at least once in an eight-year period, according to an analysis that cited an array of loopholes. Advertisement has led to discussions about business leaders entering the race for the Democratic Party’s nomination in 2020 . “There is this sense that if Trump got it, why shouldn’t they?” said David Gergen, an adviser to four presidents. Advertisement were mixed on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living  Here’s how to do it right . : Treat yourself to the comfort of Swedish meatloaf and caramelized cabbage. Noteworthy Fukushima, 6 Years On: Empty and Eerie Inside the exclusion zone surrounding Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, homes and restaurants are still abandoned despite Japan’s plan to lift the evacuation order.      Thousands of people fled their homes, offices and schools six years ago after an earthquake and tsunami caused a meltdown at a nuclear power plant in Japan . Few have returned. Our 360 video takes you inside the exclusion zone. “ Kong: Skull Island ” brings one of Hollywood’s most famous monsters back to life, in a film our critic calls “digitally turbocharged” with nods to “Apocalypse Now.” Advertisement If TV is on your agenda this weekend, here are some recommendations . In books, we look at theories on human nature , and a history of sleep . We also review “ Ties ,” a novel by the Italian author Domenico Starnone that has links — fictional and real — to an Elena Ferrante novel. Advertisement The Times Magazine this week looks at the direction of music, based on 25 songs . “In 2017, identity is the topic at the absolute center of our conversations about music,” our writer says. Advertisement Jimmy Kimmel has an idea for funding the government: He thinks plenty of Americans would pay to see what happened on Wednesday, when President Trump and Senator Ted Cruz had dinner together. Back Story In this age of e-readers and Amazon, it might be surprising that an American mail-order business that started nine decades ago is still supplying readers with literary selections. Advertisement Before best-seller lists and well-stocked bookstores, the Book of the Month Club tried to steer a growing middle class to the “right” books. Having such titles in the home became a sign of status. In March 1926, “ Lolly Willowes ,” by the British author Sylvia Townsend Warner was gaining acclaim, and a month later it became the club’s inaugural pick . A panel of literary experts made the choices over lunch and sherry, around an oak table. Their credibility built the fledgling club’s membership. They had hits like “Gone With the Wind” and “The Catcher in the Rye.” One miss was “The Grapes of Wrath.” Advertisement While many critics viewed the club as middlebrow, it became a powerful literary institution in the U.S. Its influence diminished with the spread of bookstore chains in the 1980s, and further declined with online bookselling. Advertisement But some of us still want to be guided by their judges . As an early club brochure said, “What a deprivation it is to miss reading an important new book at a time when everyone else is reading and discussing it.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Listen from a computer, on an iOS device or on an Android device.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Business

• The U.S. economy grew by 235,000 jobs in February, the first full month under the Trump administration.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A new study has found that men moving into traditionally female jobs tend to be disadvantaged in the labor market in terms of race and class.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Dozens of Fortune 500 companies avoided paying taxes at least once in an eight-year period, according to an analysis that cited an array of loopholes.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• President Trump’s rise has led to discussions about business leaders entering the race for the Democratic Party’s nomination in 2020.

“There is this sense that if Trump got it, why shouldn’t they?” said David Gergen, an adviser to four presidents.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• U.S. stocks were mixed on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• Prefer cold-brewed coffee? Here’s how to do it right.

• Recipe of the day: Treat yourself to the comfort of Swedish meatloaf and caramelized cabbage.

Noteworthy

• The ghost towns of Fukushima.

Video

Thousands of people fled their homes, offices and schools six years ago after an earthquake and tsunami caused a meltdown at a nuclear power plant in Japan. Few have returned.

Our 360 video takes you inside the exclusion zone.

• New to watch and read.

“Kong: Skull Island” brings one of Hollywood’s most famous monsters back to life, in a film our critic calls “digitally turbocharged” with nods to “Apocalypse Now.”

Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If TV is on your agenda this weekend, here are some recommendations.

In books, we look at theories on human nature, and a history of sleep. We also review “Ties,” a novel by the Italian author Domenico Starnone that has links — fictional and real — to an Elena Ferrante novel.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• What we’re listening to.

The Times Magazine this week looks at the direction of music, based on 25 songs. “In 2017, identity is the topic at the absolute center of our conversations about music,” our writer says.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Best of late-night TV.

Jimmy Kimmel has an idea for funding the government: He thinks plenty of Americans would pay to see what happened on Wednesday, when President Trump and Senator Ted Cruz had dinner together.

Back Story

In this age of e-readers and Amazon, it might be surprising that an American mail-order business that started nine decades ago is still supplying readers with literary selections.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before best-seller lists and well-stocked bookstores, the Book of the Month Club tried to steer a growing middle class to the “right” books. Having such titles in the home became a sign of status.

Photo

In March 1926, “Lolly Willowes,” by the British author Sylvia Townsend Warner was gaining acclaim, and a month later it became the club’s inaugural pick.

A panel of literary experts made the choices over lunch and sherry, around an oak table. Their credibility built the fledgling club’s membership.

They had hits like “Gone With the Wind” and “The Catcher in the Rye.” One miss was “The Grapes of Wrath.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While many critics viewed the club as middlebrow, it became a powerful literary institution in the U.S. Its influence diminished with the spread of bookstore chains in the 1980s, and further declined with online bookselling.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But some of us still want to be guided by their judges. As an early club brochure said, “What a deprivation it is to miss reading an important new book at a time when everyone else is reading and discussing it.”

Adeel Hassan contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.