Billboard near Elon Musk's Tesla factory asks him to 'dump Trump'
Billboard near Tesla factory asks Musk to 'dump Trump'
Shares                Elon Musk , like many other tech industry leaders, has been slammed by foes of President Trump for being part of the White House's business advisory council. On February 2, the Tesla and SpaceX CEO responded to his detractors who have called on him to drop out of the council, tweeting, "Advisory councils simply provide advice and attending does not mean that I agree with actions by the Administration ... I understand the perspective of those who object to my attending this meeting, but I believe this is doing good, so I will remain on council and keep at it." But that has done little to silence his critics. A new billboard has popped up on Interstate 880 in Milpitas, California -- located just three miles from the Tesla factory in Fremont -- that reads, "Elon: Please dump Trump." According to ABC affiliate KGO-TV in San Francisco, the billboard has been up for at least a week and costs $5,000 a month.  Uber CEO Travis Kalanick left the council in February following similar criticism from Trump opponents.  Regarding the meeting at the White House: pic.twitter.com/8b1XH4oW6h  Shares                  Billboard near Tesla factory asks Musk to 'dump Trump'   How Russians view the drama unfolding in Washington   How to interpret Trump's first jobs report   President Trump hits the 50-day mark   Court unanimously ousts South Korea's leader for corruption   Orthodontists warn against uptick in DIY teeth straightening   After deadly ISIS attack, will Trump send more US troops to Afghanistan?   ACLU files complaint against Jeff Sessions   Democratic AGs step up legal fight against Trump travel ban   Malaysian police formally ID Kim Jong Nam in airport attack   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Interval training may have anti-aging benefits, study finds   Helicopter crashes on outskirts of Istanbul; 7 killed   Elon Musk promises Australian power woes fix in 100 days   US aluminum group files trade complaint against China   US added 235K jobs in February, making Fed rate hike likely   On Trump trademarks, China says it treats applicants equally   Gay conversion therapy advocates heartened by Republican electoral victories   Police: Tourists among victims of ax attack   7 injured in Dusseldorf train station ax attack   Sarah Michelle Gellar reflects on 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer' success   Japan to end 5-year peacekeeping mission in South Sudan   'The Seventh Generation': Youths at the heart of the Standing Rock protests   Tips for surviving switch to Daylight Saving Time   Book filled with blank pages tops Amazon's best seller list

Elon Musk, like many other tech industry leaders, has been slammed by foes of President Trump for being part of the White House's business advisory council.

On February 2, the Tesla and SpaceX CEO responded to his detractors who have called on him to drop out of the council, tweeting, "Advisory councils simply provide advice and attending does not mean that I agree with actions by the Administration ... I understand the perspective of those who object to my attending this meeting, but I believe this is doing good, so I will remain on council and keep at it."

But that has done little to silence his critics.

A new billboard has popped up on Interstate 880 in Milpitas, California -- located just three miles from the Tesla factory in Fremont -- that reads, "Elon: Please dump Trump."

According to ABC affiliate KGO-TV in San Francisco, the billboard has been up for at least a week and costs $5,000 a month.

Uber CEO Travis Kalanick left the council in February following similar criticism from Trump opponents.