Australasian College Broadway: Hack of failed beauty college leaves students unable to access academic records



Australasian College Broadway: Hack of failed beauty college leaves students unable to access academic records

Updated

A beauty college run by a National Party donor had its computer systems "maliciously" hacked the day it went out of business, which locked administrators out and left students unable to access their academic records.

Key points: The liquidator suspects "someone involved in the company" may be behind the hack

The college, which is now in liquidation, is being pursued by a long list of creditors

NSW Police is investigating allegations the college enrolled phantom students

The administrator of Australasian College Broadway, Robert Moodie, told the ABC the college's systems were hacked and passwords changed the day they took control of the controversial beauty school in December.

"I believe it was a malicious hack by someone involved in the company," Mr Moodie said.

The college, which is now in liquidation, is being pursued by a long list of creditors including four different government departments that are owed almost $20 million between them.

The Australian Taxation Office, the Federal Education Department, the VET FEE-HELP program and the NSW Department of Industry, Skills and Regional Development have all registered as creditors of The Australasian College Broadway.

The college's parent company MHM Australasia went into administration late last year and liquidators moved in during February.

That was after it received more than $25 million in government payments under the VET-FEE-HELP program in the past three years.

Do you know more about this story? Email investigations@abc.net.au

It is one of a number of colleges that have closed after the Federal Government restructured the training fund.

Record lockout leaves students unable to transfer credits

The collapse has left more than 700 hair and beauty students in the lurch with students now saying neither the liquidator nor the regulator, the Australia Skills Quality Authority, are helping them access their academic transcripts.

This means many have been unable to transfer their credits to other colleges to study.

However, Mr Moodie said the day they took control of the college its IT systems were the subject of a hack that locked them out of student databases.

"It either happened the day of or immediately after we were appointed," he said.

"The data wasn't impacted. What the individual did was change all the passwords."

Mr Moodie said the student academic data was being stored on a cloud-based system and they were working to gain access to it.

He said he was confident they could extract the information from the database soon.

"Student welfare has been our fundamental concern," he said.

"There definitely has been significant progress and we will provide it in some form."

College with controversial history

NSW Police has confirmed its fraud squad is continuing to investigate past allegations against the college of enrolling phantom students under the NSW Productivity Places Program.

A spokesman told the ABC it had established Strike Force Orvick to investigate allegations of misappropriation of funds and fraud.

"Investigations of this nature are complex and usually protracted," the spokesman said.

"As the investigation is ongoing, we are not in a position to comment further."

The college's owner, Maureen Houssei-Mustafa, has always strenuously denied the allegations of phantom students.

The college was also the subject of a Senate Estimates debate last month over concerns about progress rates, marketing methods and compliance.

Former NSW education minister and Nationals MP Adrian Piccoli was grilled in 2014 about his association with Ms Houssein-Mustafa in the NSW Upper House.

Ms Mustafa-Houssein was the recipient of an OAM in 2011 for growing her beauty salon into a training giant.

It included her work with the Leichardt area police command on training unemployed youth.

Further allegations questioning the quality of the training at the college and the ability of students to withdraw from taxpayer-funded VET-FEE-HELP programs surfaced in 2015.

The college's parent company MHM Australasia gave $16,500 to the NSW National Party in 2010 and 2011 and $5,000 to the Queensland Liberation National Party in 2010.

Long list of creditors

The creditor list for MHM Australasia is a long and colourful one. It even includes Ms Houssein-Mustafa herself who is seeking $829,205.

Along with the power bills and beauty suppliers is a $31 million debt to the college's former landlord for lost future revenues.

The Australian Taxation Office Insolvency Department is seeking $143,164, a chauffer and limousine company is after $704 and the National Document Shredding Service is after $66.

The Department of Industry, Innovation and Science is seeking $4,074,870 and the Office of State Revenue is after $16,388.

The VET-FEE-HELP branch of the Federal Government is seeking $8,356,560 followed closely by the Department of Education and Training which is after more than $7 million.

Students left in limbo

Patricia Mokdessi was a young mum looking for a career change when she signed up to study hairdressing at Australasian College Broadway.

More than two years and $19,000 later she now has a training debt to the Government and lost a college she loved.

"Our main priority is to get all our statements of attainment, all our records so we can proceed to find another institute," she said.

She said the Government had been giving students the run-around and they had been trying to get answers from both Australian Skills Quality Authority (ASQA) and the liquidator.

"They didn't tell us we were actually creditors and were actually able to sit in on [creditor's] meetings," she said.

"The [college] shouldn't have been allowed to trade in this manner.

"I've lost passion to be honest and I feel like I'm in limbo."

For Glynis Hawker, studying hair dressing a was lifelong dream she decided to pursue as a mature-age student.

She was one module away from finishing when the college collapsed.

"I'm not young enough to start and do all that over again," she said.

System let us down, students say

Students said the college, the liquidator and regulator ASQA had all let them down.

In a statement a spokesman for ASQA said it was working with the liquidator.

"However these attempts have — to date — been unsuccessful," he said.

He said the authority rejected suggestions it did not effectively regulate the college.

"ASQA made a decision to cancel this provider's registration in 2012, however the provider sought a review of this decision," the spokesman said.

"The provider was also subject to ASQA scrutiny as the time it entered voluntary administration."

Ms Houssein-Mustafa did not respond to the ABC's inquiries.

Topics: university-and-further-education, education-industry, adult-education, broadway-2007, nsw, australia, sydney-2000

First posted