Whipped 100 times for having sex outside marriage
Whipped 100 times for having sex outside marriage


A woman received 100 lashes for having without being married while a man was caned nine times for gambling in Banda Aceh.

Highlighting the Islamic Sharia law's twisted moral stance, a man who was charged with having sex outside of marriage was given the same punishment as a child molester - 120 lashes.

Pictures have emerged of the latest round of barbaric public punishments in Indonesia dished out by enforcers.

An Acehnese woman whipped in front of the public for violating the sharia law in Banda Aceh

Man, being led away by officials, was sentenced to 120 lashes for sexually harassing children

The woman bows her head as the masked enforcer stands behind her ready to whip her bacl

This man was sentenced to 120 lashes for having sex without being married as he stands on stage

An Acehnese man braces himself to be whipped for spending time in close proximity with a woman who is not his wife

Recent barbaric beatings in Banda Aceh In the past year, MailOnline has reported on the troubling rising trend of public lashings carried out in Aceh, Indonesia: March 1, 2016: Woman whipped 50 times for spending time alone with a man at the age of 19. March 24, 2016: Young woman carried from the stage on a stretcher after being lashed for sex outside marriage. August 1, 2016: Another woman is lashed for going on a date in Aceh. August 15, 2016: Elderly man caned for breaking Sharia law. September 11, 2016: Man and a woman lashed for having an affair and among the gathered crowd is the mayor of Banda Aceh. October 17, 2016: Muslim woman screams out in pain on stage after being lashed 23 times for standing too close to her boyfriend. October 31, 2016: A woman, 20, caned in public for getting too close to a man she wasn't married to. November 28, 2016: Man and a woman lashed 100 times each for adultery. February 2, 2017: Enforcer lands 26 beatings across the back of a woman for having sex outside of wedlock. February 10, 2017: Woman collapses in pain on stage as she is being caned. February 27, 2017: Man collapses on stage as he is being whipped for having sex outside of marriage.

The beatings occurred in Aceh, which is the only province in the country which implements Sharia law in full.

The province began implementing Sharia law after being granted autonomy in 2001 – an attempt by the government in Jakarta to quell a long-running separatist insurgency.

Islamic laws have been strengthened since Aceh struck a peace deal with Jakarta in 2005.

People are flogged for a range of offences including gambling, drinking alcohol, gay sex or any sexual relationship outside marriage.

More than 90 per cent of the 255million people who live in Indonesia describe themselves as Muslim, but the vast majority practice a moderate form of the faith.

The brutal and public beatings have become more prevalent this year with a number of reported incidents of those being punished collapsing in pain on stage.

Back in September 2014, Aceh approved an anti-homosexuality law that can punish anyone caught having gay sex with 100 lashes.

After a three-decade-old separatist movement, a peace agreement signed in 2005 granted special autonomy to Aceh, at the northern tip of Sumatra, on condition that it remained part of the sprawling archipelago.

As part of that deal, Aceh won the right to be the only Indonesian province to use Islamic sharia law as its legal code.

Anybody caught engaging in consensual gay sex is punished with 100 lashes, 100 months in jail or a fine of 1,000 grams of gold.

The law also set out punishment for sex crimes, unmarried people engaging in displays of affection, people caught found guilty of adultery and underage sex.

Religious police in Aceh have been known to target Muslim women without head scarves or those wearing tight clothes, and people drinking alcohol or gambling.

Over the past decade, the central government has devolved more power to regional authorities to increase autonomy and speed up development.

Engaging in homosexual acts is not a crime under Indonesia's national criminal code but remains taboo in many conservative parts of the country with the world's largest Muslim population.

A Muslim man accused of abusing three teenagers is lashed 112 times in front of dozens of local officials and residents

Man accused of sexually molesting children braces himself as he prepares to be lashed 112 times on a public stage in Aceh

A woman kneels on the stage as the enforcer holds out the cane across her back ready to unleash brutal canings

A crowd and photographers gather around the stage ahead of the woman being lashed

This man was sentenced to nine lashes for gambling in Indonesia, which has been prohibited in the country

One of the two ethnic Chinese and members of the Buddhist minority, is taken to be whipped in front of dozens of local officials and residents in the city of Jantho, Aceh

One of two men accused of cockfighting opted for punishment under the strict Islamic regulations in Aceh, Indonesia