Kirk Cousins Signs Franchise Contract with Redskins, Eligible to Be Traded
Kirk Cousins Signs Franchise Contract with Redskins, Eligible to Be Traded
Washington Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins officially signed his one-year tender Friday to play under the franchise tag. The contract makes him eligible to be traded. Mike McCartney of Priority Sports passed along the news. Adam Schefter‏ of ESPN confirmed the procedural move. Schefter also noted the Redskins haven't actively considered trading the QB, but signing the contract does make the option available. Cousins is set to make just over $23.9 million for the 2017 season while playing under the franchise tag for the second straight season, according to Spotrac . That makes him the fourth-highest paid player at the NFL's most important position. His long-term outlook is still very much up in the air, though. Master Tesfatsion of the reported last week Cousins and the Redskins engaged in conversations about a long-term contract extension, but didn't make much progress. The team was offering around $20 million per season, and he noted the sides "aren't close to a deal." Meanwhile, John Keim of ESPN.com stated the 28-year-old quarterback viewed the San Francisco 49ers as his "preferred destination" in a possible trade. He's interested in reuniting with former offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan, the new Niners head coach. While he wouldn't attempt to block a trade to another organization, he wouldn't immediately sign a long-term deal elsewhere, per Keim. That likely limits the number of interested suitors. ESPN's Chris Mortensen added another twist to the situation Thursday by reporting Cousins went as far as talking to Redskins owner Dan Snyder about his desire for a trade. He was told "not to get his hopes up." Ian Rapoport ‏ of the NFL Network noted Cousins is "a good soldier, knows he's likely not going anywhere." If Washington reverses course and thinks about making a trade, the New York Jets, Cleveland Browns, Houston Texans and Chicago Bears are among the other teams looking to upgrade at QB this offseason. The 49ers would still be in the driver's seat for Cousins, though. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Rob Carr/Getty Images

Washington Redskins quarterback Kirk Cousins officially signed his one-year tender Friday to play under the franchise tag. The contract makes him eligible to be traded.

Mike McCartney of Priority Sports passed along the news. Adam Schefter‏ of ESPN confirmed the procedural move. Schefter also noted the Redskins haven't actively considered trading the QB, but signing the contract does make the option available.

Cousins is set to make just over $23.9 million for the 2017 season while playing under the franchise tag for the second straight season, according to Spotrac. That makes him the fourth-highest paid player at the NFL's most important position.

His long-term outlook is still very much up in the air, though.

Master Tesfatsion of the Washington Post reported last week Cousins and the Redskins engaged in conversations about a long-term contract extension, but didn't make much progress. The team was offering around $20 million per season, and he noted the sides "aren't close to a deal."

Meanwhile, John Keim of ESPN.com stated the 28-year-old quarterback viewed the San Francisco 49ers as his "preferred destination" in a possible trade. He's interested in reuniting with former offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan, the new Niners head coach.

While he wouldn't attempt to block a trade to another organization, he wouldn't immediately sign a long-term deal elsewhere, per Keim. That likely limits the number of interested suitors.

ESPN's Chris Mortensen added another twist to the situation Thursday by reporting Cousins went as far as talking to Redskins owner Dan Snyder about his desire for a trade. He was told "not to get his hopes up."

Ian Rapoport‏ of the NFL Network noted Cousins is "a good soldier, knows he's likely not going anywhere."

If Washington reverses course and thinks about making a trade, the New York Jets, Cleveland Browns, Houston Texans and Chicago Bears are among the other teams looking to upgrade at QB this offseason. The 49ers would still be in the driver's seat for Cousins, though.