Gluten-free diets linked to reduced risk of type 2 diabetes
Gluten-free diets linked to reduced risk of type 2 diabetes
Avoidance of gluten has become increasingly popular in recent years thanks to many celebrities and healthy eating advocates warning of its supposed dangers. We’ve been told we’ll all feel healthier and look slimmer if we go gluten-free, and so many people with no real intolerance at all have shunned gluten, which is found in various grains including wheat, rye, barley and spelt. However the backlash against the anti-gluten brigade has begun, and a new study has added fuel to the fire.   Gluten-free diets could be harmful for non-coeliac sufferers Researchers from Harvard University have found a link between gluten-free diets and type 2 diabetes. Whilst people with coeliac disease and genuine intolerances have to avoid gluten for medical reasons, those who shun grains as a lifestyle choice could be doing more harm than good, the researchers warned. The results are particularly noteworthy because of the study’s size and scale - the gluten intake of 200,000 people was estimated over 30 years. The long-term observational study found that the 20 per cent of participants who consumed the most gluten had a 13 per cent lower chance of developing type 2 diabetes compared to those who ate the least. This suggests that consuming gluten could lower the risk of developing diabetes, lead author Geng Zong from Harvard University's Department of Nutrition said. Six healthy breakfast recipes - in pictures               Six healthy breakfast recipes - in pictures       You will need: 1 onion, 1 red pepper, 1 stick of celery, 1 cup of mushrooms, 4 to 6 eggs, 1 habanero chilli (optional), 1 tablespoon of oil, 25g of grated low-fat cheese, 150 ml of skimmed milk, 50g of turkey breast. Add some spinach for an extra boost. Method: 1)	Cook your turkey breast so that it’s ready to add to the mix later on. Best to grill it and then chop it up as it’s healthier than shallow frying.
2)	Meanwhile, heat the oil and add your onion, pepper, chilli, mushrooms and celery to your pan. Cook these for around five minutes until your veg is nice and soft. 
3)	Whisk your eggs and milk together in a separate bowl, seasoning with salt and pepper. 
4)	Add the egg mixture, veg, cooked turkey and cheese to a high-sided baking pan or tin and cook in your oven for around 15 minutes at 170C.  DW Fitness Clubs        Be careful when you buy your porridge, as some brands will cram a lot of sugar in there. Porridge is a good breakfast option as it is renowned for releasing energy slowly, which means you can get to lunch without suffering from a lull. A great source of fibre, potassium and vitamins, bananas are always a good accompaniment to your morning oats.   DW Fitness Clubs        Ingredients: 2 full eggs, 3 egg whites, asparagus, peppers, 50g of smoked salmon Method 1)	Boil your asparagus in water for around five minutes.
2)	Meanwhile, mix your eggs and egg whites in a jug, and add a splash of skimmed milk. Chop some peppers up and throw them in too. 
3)	Once your asparagus is cooked, drain it and chop into smaller chunks. Add these to your egg mixture.
4)	Whisk your mixture and season with salt and pepper.
5)	Pour the mix into a hot pan with a small knob of butter or a teaspoon of quality olive oil.
6)	Cook the omelette for around 90 seconds to two minutes.
7)	Once the bottom is cooked, take the pan off the hob and place under the grill for another 30 seconds to a minute in order to cook the top.
8)	Serve with your smoked salmon.  DW Fitness        Greek yoghurt has vast nutritional benefits. Regardless of where you stand on the superfood debate, Greek yoghurt’s credentials speak for themselves. A good source of potassium, protein, calcium and essential vitamins, this food forms an ideal base for a healthy breakfast, especially if you’re trying to lose weight.   DW Fitness        Eggs Florentine is not only a tasty breakfast, it also carries a hefty nutritional punch, particularly when you throw some spinach into the equation.   DW Fitness        So fast and easy to make, yet so effective. Wholemeal toast can be a good breakfast choice, as long as you are sensible with your toppings. Peanut butter is perfect. A good source of “healthy fats”, as well as protein and Vitamin E among other nutrients, a liberal spreading of peanut butter can set you up for the day.   DW Fitness  He warned against eating gluten-free versions of foods that would naturally contain gluten, like bread, pasta and crackers: “Gluten-free foods often have less dietary fibre and other micronutrients... making them less nutritious. “People without coeliac disease may reconsider limiting their gluten intake for chronic disease prevention, especially for diabetes.”   Gluten-free products 'cost up to four times as much' The proportion of the population whose bodies genuinely cannot stomach gluten is actually very small, so it could be that people who are perfectly tolerant of gluten are unknowingly increasing their risk of diabetes by avoiding it. However it’s not clear whether it was actually the gluten that resulted in a lower risk of type 2 diabetes, or in fact the foods often found alongside the protein. “It could be that other things that you tend to find gluten with, we tend to find things like wholegrains, which are associated with a reduction in risk of diabetes,” University of Canberra Associate Professor of nutritional science Duane Mellor explained . It’s also worth noting that when the study commenced over 30 years ago, avoiding gluten was not the trendy lifestyle choice it is now. Bread, anyone? More about: Gluten free Gluten-free gluten-free diet gluten intolerance Type 2 diabetes Comments

Avoidance of gluten has become increasingly popular in recent years thanks to many celebrities and healthy eating advocates warning of its supposed dangers.

We’ve been told we’ll all feel healthier and look slimmer if we go gluten-free, and so many people with no real intolerance at all have shunned gluten, which is found in various grains including wheat, rye, barley and spelt.

However the backlash against the anti-gluten brigade has begun, and a new study has added fuel to the fire.

Researchers from Harvard University have found a link between gluten-free diets and type 2 diabetes.

Whilst people with coeliac disease and genuine intolerances have to avoid gluten for medical reasons, those who shun grains as a lifestyle choice could be doing more harm than good, the researchers warned.

The results are particularly noteworthy because of the study’s size and scale - the gluten intake of 200,000 people was estimated over 30 years.

The long-term observational study found that the 20 per cent of participants who consumed the most gluten had a 13 per cent lower chance of developing type 2 diabetes compared to those who ate the least.

This suggests that consuming gluten could lower the risk of developing diabetes, lead author Geng Zong from Harvard University's Department of Nutrition said.

Six healthy breakfast recipes - in pictures







6 show all Six healthy breakfast recipes - in pictures









1/6 You will need: 1 onion, 1 red pepper, 1 stick of celery, 1 cup of mushrooms, 4 to 6 eggs, 1 habanero chilli (optional), 1 tablespoon of oil, 25g of grated low-fat cheese, 150 ml of skimmed milk, 50g of turkey breast. Add some spinach for an extra boost. Method: 1) Cook your turkey breast so that it’s ready to add to the mix later on. Best to grill it and then chop it up as it’s healthier than shallow frying. 2) Meanwhile, heat the oil and add your onion, pepper, chilli, mushrooms and celery to your pan. Cook these for around five minutes until your veg is nice and soft. 3) Whisk your eggs and milk together in a separate bowl, seasoning with salt and pepper. 4) Add the egg mixture, veg, cooked turkey and cheese to a high-sided baking pan or tin and cook in your oven for around 15 minutes at 170C. DW Fitness Clubs

1) Cook your turkey breast so that it’s ready to add to the mix later on. Best to grill it and then chop it up as it’s healthier than shallow frying. 2) Meanwhile, heat the oil and add your onion, pepper, chilli, mushrooms and celery to your pan. Cook these for around five minutes until your veg is nice and soft. 3) Whisk your eggs and milk together in a separate bowl, seasoning with salt and pepper. 4) Add the egg mixture, veg, cooked turkey and cheese to a high-sided baking pan or tin and cook in your oven for around 15 minutes at 170C. 2/6 Be careful when you buy your porridge, as some brands will cram a lot of sugar in there. Porridge is a good breakfast option as it is renowned for releasing energy slowly, which means you can get to lunch without suffering from a lull. A great source of fibre, potassium and vitamins, bananas are always a good accompaniment to your morning oats. DW Fitness Clubs

3/6 Ingredients: 2 full eggs, 3 egg whites, asparagus, peppers, 50g of smoked salmon Method 1) Boil your asparagus in water for around five minutes. 2) Meanwhile, mix your eggs and egg whites in a jug, and add a splash of skimmed milk. Chop some peppers up and throw them in too. 3) Once your asparagus is cooked, drain it and chop into smaller chunks. Add these to your egg mixture. 4) Whisk your mixture and season with salt and pepper. 5) Pour the mix into a hot pan with a small knob of butter or a teaspoon of quality olive oil. 6) Cook the omelette for around 90 seconds to two minutes. 7) Once the bottom is cooked, take the pan off the hob and place under the grill for another 30 seconds to a minute in order to cook the top. 8) Serve with your smoked salmon. DW Fitness

1) Boil your asparagus in water for around five minutes. 2) Meanwhile, mix your eggs and egg whites in a jug, and add a splash of skimmed milk. Chop some peppers up and throw them in too. 3) Once your asparagus is cooked, drain it and chop into smaller chunks. Add these to your egg mixture. 4) Whisk your mixture and season with salt and pepper. 5) Pour the mix into a hot pan with a small knob of butter or a teaspoon of quality olive oil. 6) Cook the omelette for around 90 seconds to two minutes. 7) Once the bottom is cooked, take the pan off the hob and place under the grill for another 30 seconds to a minute in order to cook the top. 8) Serve with your smoked salmon. 4/6 Greek yoghurt has vast nutritional benefits. Regardless of where you stand on the superfood debate, Greek yoghurt’s credentials speak for themselves. A good source of potassium, protein, calcium and essential vitamins, this food forms an ideal base for a healthy breakfast, especially if you’re trying to lose weight. DW Fitness

5/6 Eggs Florentine is not only a tasty breakfast, it also carries a hefty nutritional punch, particularly when you throw some spinach into the equation. DW Fitness

6/6 So fast and easy to make, yet so effective. Wholemeal toast can be a good breakfast choice, as long as you are sensible with your toppings. Peanut butter is perfect. A good source of “healthy fats”, as well as protein and Vitamin E among other nutrients, a liberal spreading of peanut butter can set you up for the day. DW Fitness

He warned against eating gluten-free versions of foods that would naturally contain gluten, like bread, pasta and crackers: “Gluten-free foods often have less dietary fibre and other micronutrients... making them less nutritious.

“People without coeliac disease may reconsider limiting their gluten intake for chronic disease prevention, especially for diabetes.”

The proportion of the population whose bodies genuinely cannot stomach gluten is actually very small, so it could be that people who are perfectly tolerant of gluten are unknowingly increasing their risk of diabetes by avoiding it.

However it’s not clear whether it was actually the gluten that resulted in a lower risk of type 2 diabetes, or in fact the foods often found alongside the protein.

“It could be that other things that you tend to find gluten with, we tend to find things like wholegrains, which are associated with a reduction in risk of diabetes,” University of Canberra Associate Professor of nutritional science Duane Mellor explained.

It’s also worth noting that when the study commenced over 30 years ago, avoiding gluten was not the trendy lifestyle choice it is now.

Bread, anyone?