Julia Louis-Dreyfus is the ultimate proud mom at her son's college basketball game
Julia Louis-Dreyfus is the ultimate proud mom at her son's college basketball game
Our parents are our biggest fans whether we're the team's #1 player or the equipment manager. SEE ALSO: High school basketball team loses game in worst way possible Celebrity parents are no exception to this fandom. Actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus got totally pumped Thursday, as any parent would, to watch her son, Charlie Hall, play basketball for Northwestern University in their win over Rutgers. Charlie is a walk-on for Northwestern, so he doesn't get much playing time. But, Julia and her husband, Brad Hall, are loyal fans who attend game after game to cheer on their son and his team. As the split-screen shows, she's pretty excited, yet focused, as her son makes a great rebound. And of course, she has her camera ready, snapping shots of this very proud moment (probably to show off to all her celeb friends). Moms are our biggest cheerleaders, so although embarrassing at times, let's let them have these moments. WATCH: Julia Louis-Dreyfus used her Emmy acceptance speech to make fun of Trump

Our parents are our biggest fans whether we're the team's #1 player or the equipment manager.

SEE ALSO: High school basketball team loses game in worst way possible

Celebrity parents are no exception to this fandom. Actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus got totally pumped Thursday, as any parent would, to watch her son, Charlie Hall, play basketball for Northwestern University in their win over Rutgers.

Charlie is a walk-on for Northwestern, so he doesn't get much playing time. But, Julia and her husband, Brad Hall, are loyal fans who attend game after game to cheer on their son and his team.

As the split-screen shows, she's pretty excited, yet focused, as her son makes a great rebound. And of course, she has her camera ready, snapping shots of this very proud moment (probably to show off to all her celeb friends).

Moms are our biggest cheerleaders, so although embarrassing at times, let's let them have these moments.