Relationship expert warns about dangers of imposters
Relationship expert warns about dangers of imposters


Opening your heart to someone new is never easy - especially when your only knowledge of them comes from a few brief exchanges on a dating app.

And experts say imposters are becoming more common in the dating world, following reports of women and men being duped online by con artists looking not for love, but financial gain.

Manipulation is easy if you have the right information, according to psychologist Honey Langcaster-James, who warns of so-called 'love imposters': 'They are highly skilled in knowing what you like, and they say exactly what you want to hear.'

She says fraudsters can gain valuable insight into your personal life - and wean enough detail to gain your trust - from your profile picture alone.

To mark the release of television show Imposters, psychologist Honey Langcaster-James shares her advice on how to spot someone who could be trying to dupe you for financial gain (stock image)

WARNING SIGNS OF AN IMPOSTER 1. TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE Imposters are really skilled at telling you exactly what you want to hear. In reality, normal relationships develop over time, so be wary if your new love interest wants to move to be closer to you within a week... 2. WATCH OUT FOR INCONSISTENCIES Imposters are clever but they can start to slip up, if you notice inaccuracies in what they tell you - try to pay attention. 3. KEEPING THE SPOTLIGHT ON YOU A good listener who asks lots of questions is great in theory, but if you're dating someone who reveals nothing about themselves - but wants to know everything about you - consider it a potential red flag.

'People don't realise how much information they give away about themselves,' she says.

'Not just in the way you might think, like a name or address, but for example if you use any kind of dating app or just your social media profile.

Psychologist Honey Langcaster-James shares tips on how to spot an imposter

'In your pictures not only are you giving away a lot of information about what you look like, but in the background there might be things or in a particular place that says a lot about your socio-economic status.

'You are unwittingly giving away information all the time about your level of affluence and other things like the type of family you come from, whether you are isolated and can be easily preyed upon.'

Honey cites photographs on walls in the background of pictures, or even books on bookshelves as clues to your background and interests that could be used to manipulate you.

And she says it isn't only vulnerable people who can be duped, adding that 'anyone can fall prey' to an imposter.

Honey emphasises that people shouldn't be put off using dating apps, or meeting people in real life that they've struck up a connection with online, but says it's important to be savvy.

To mark the launch of new TV series Imposters on Virgin TV, Honey revealed her top warning signs to look out for to FEMAIL - and the best ways to ensure you're being safe when dating somebody new.

DATE SMART - AND SAFE Be savvy - don't be put off using online dating apps but take care when choosing pictures. Arrange a meeting in a public place - if they cancel it can be a warning sign. Take your time getting to know someone - they are still a stranger, after all. Play detective - search them online to check their background. Show any messages or interactions that cause you concern to a friend or loved one - they will be able to give you an objective opinion. Be prepared to walk away. Always trust your own instincts and if suspicions are raised, walk away or seek professional advice. If you need more support, Honey advises you seek professional advice.

Imposters is available now exclusively on Virgin TV on demand www.virginmedia.com