Grateful Dead Reissues: Archivist Shares Details on Next 22 Years
Grateful Dead Reissues: Archivist Shares Details on Next 22 Years 
Grateful Dead Reissues: Archivist Shares Details on Next 22 Years  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  When the Grateful Dead went into the studio in early 1967 with nine tracks from its live show, anchored on Ron "Pigpen"Â McKernan'sÂ bluesyÂ vocals and "96 Tears"-style organ, the band expanded just one song, "Viola Lee Blues," beyond five or six minutes. While any Deadhead can tell the difference between a Jerry Garcia solo in 1966 and one from 1971, no one knows more about the group's sonic evolution than longtime archivist DavidÂ Lemieux, 46, who describes that era as "nascent Grateful Dead, before they became psychedelic warriors."  The history and fine arts in film major from Ottawa, Ontario, compiled the newÂ two-discÂ set documenting the band's self-titled debut with Rhino Records, the first of aÂ 50th-anniversaryÂ reissue series through 2039. LemieuxÂ oversees the Dead's Los Angeles archive of thousands of tapes, arranged meticulously by year and format. "To me, as a Deadhead and as an archivist, every one of those tapes tells a story." Speaking from his Ottawa home, he opens up about the newÂ reissue and the challenges of plotting a trajectory for the next 22 years. We didn't have a lot in the way ofÂ outtakes, so what we Â­decided to do was find a really great live show that Â­represented the sound of the Grateful Dead on that first record. They were getting more experimental as they headed toward the end of '67, with Robert Hunter Â­writing more Â­lyrics and things like "Dark Star" coming, and also Â­[drummer] Mickey Hart joining. They were focusing on how tight they could be. One song on the first album that really reflects the live Dead sound, as it would Â­become later, would be "ViolaÂ Lee Blues." It hit a couple of peaks that I call "the frenzy point." They were a Â­disciplined band in the early days. When I was about 16 or 17, I started collecting [Dead] tapes. We were trading in batches of 10, so before you knew it, you've got 200, then 300, then 500, then you know a guy who's got 1,000, and you go, "I want 1,000." Around 1991 or so, I read a story about the Dead's archive that mentioned Â­archivist DickÂ Latvala. I Â­remember thinking, "Wow, there's a Grateful DeadÂ Â­archivist?" Since 2006 it has been in the greater Los Angeles area. Â­Visually, unless you're a Deadhead, it's not that exciting. It's thousands and thousands of tapes on shelves. By no means is it a museum. They don't tend to be Â­extremely involved, largely owing to how busy they are with current projects. To them, that is not only the past, but the ancient past. PhilÂ LeshÂ is incredibly busy with Terrapin Crossroads, and Bob Weir, Mickey and BillyÂ KreutzmannÂ are busy with Dead and Co. I still get emails quite often from the guys going, "Oh, my God, I've heard from so many people thatÂ Dave's PicksÂ was such a great show." We have a very loyal fan base. I don't think it translated to a Â­massive interest in the Â­archival CD sales, but certainly those shows made the Dead once again a very mainstream story. People like my mom, she doesn't pay too much attention to the Dead scene and what I do, but she'd say, "Wow, I hear the Dead sold out Chicago -- 75,000 people a night." It gives us some rare Â­structure. We know for sure that every year we're Â­going to release fourÂ Dave's Picks, which are the Â­three-CD Â­complete live shows, Â­quarterly. We know we're going to do one big box set each year, whether that's an eight-CD set or an 11-CD set, like the one we have Â­coming up. This gives us one other big thing to focus on every year.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

When the Grateful Dead went into the studio in early 1967 with nine tracks from its live show, anchored on Ron "Pigpen"Â McKernan'sÂ bluesyÂ vocals and "96 Tears"-style organ, the band expanded just one song, "Viola Lee Blues," beyond five or six minutes. While any Deadhead can tell the difference between a Jerry Garcia solo in 1966 and one from 1971, no one knows more about the group's sonic evolution than longtime archivist DavidÂ Lemieux, 46, who describes that era as "nascent Grateful Dead, before they became psychedelic warriors."

The history and fine arts in film major from Ottawa, Ontario, compiled the newÂ two-discÂ set documenting the band's self-titled debut with Rhino Records, the first of aÂ 50th-anniversaryÂ reissue series through 2039.

LemieuxÂ oversees the Dead's Los Angeles archive of thousands of tapes, arranged meticulously by year and format. "To me, as a Deadhead and as an archivist, every one of those tapes tells a story." Speaking from his Ottawa home, he opens up about the newÂ Grateful DeadÂ reissue and the challenges of plotting a trajectory for the next 22 years.

How do you keep finding more and more material, like the live secondÂ discÂ in the Â­debut LP reissue?

We didn't have a lot in the way ofÂ outtakes, so what we Â­decided to do was find a really great live show that Â­represented the sound of the Grateful Dead on that first record. They were getting more experimental as they headed toward the end of '67, with Robert Hunter Â­writing more Â­lyrics and things like "Dark Star" coming, and also Â­[drummer] Mickey Hart joining.

David Browne'sÂ So Many RoadsÂ describes the Â­album as having a "brittle, jittery Â­energy, as if the Dead were hurtling through their Â­repertoire as quickly as possible." Is that a fair Â­assessment of the band's 1966 live show as well?

They were focusing on how tight they could be. One song on the first album that really reflects the live Dead sound, as it would Â­become later, would be "ViolaÂ Lee Blues." It hit a couple of peaks that I call "the frenzy point." They were a Â­disciplined band in the early days.

How did you get into Â­archiving Grateful Dead Â­recordings in the first place?

When I was about 16 or 17, I started collecting [Dead] tapes. We were trading in batches of 10, so before you knew it, you've got 200, then 300, then 500, then you know a guy who's got 1,000, and you go, "I want 1,000." Around 1991 or so, I read a story about the Dead's archive that mentioned Â­archivist DickÂ Latvala. I Â­remember thinking, "Wow, there's a Grateful DeadÂ Â­archivist?"

What does the Dead's vault look like? I imagine an Â­endless, museum-like library.

Since 2006 it has been in the greater Los Angeles area. Â­Visually, unless you're a Deadhead, it's not that exciting. It's thousands and thousands of tapes on shelves. By no means is it a museum.

Where do the band Â­members fit in with your job and theÂ Grateful DeadÂ reissue? How involved were they?

They don't tend to be Â­extremely involved, largely owing to how busy they are with current projects. To them, that is not only the past, but the ancient past. PhilÂ LeshÂ is incredibly busy with Terrapin Crossroads, and Bob Weir, Mickey and BillyÂ KreutzmannÂ are busy with Dead and Co. I still get emails quite often from the guys going, "Oh, my God, I've heard from so many people thatÂ Dave's PicksÂ was such a great show."

Did the Fare Thee Well concerts create more public interest in the Dead that flows back to the archive?

We have a very loyal fan base. I don't think it translated to a Â­massive interest in the Â­archival CD sales, but certainly those shows made the Dead once again a very mainstream story. People like my mom, she doesn't pay too much attention to the Dead scene and what I do, but she'd say, "Wow, I hear the Dead sold out Chicago -- 75,000 people a night."

How nice is it to know there's some security, or at least a solid plan, with an album release through 2039?

It gives us some rare Â­structure. We know for sure that every year we're Â­going to release fourÂ Dave's Picks, which are the Â­three-CD Â­complete live shows, Â­quarterly. We know we're going to do one big box set each year, whether that's an eight-CD set or an 11-CD set, like the one we have Â­coming up. This gives us one other big thing to focus on every year.

This article originally appeared in the March 18 issue of Billboard.