9 Incredible Photo Stories You Absolutely Can’t Miss
9 Incredible Photo Stories You Absolutely Can’t Miss
“Never-Before-Seen Photos Behind the Scenes at the Women’s March” — of the Women’s March in January remains to be seen, the event introduced ideas of what modern-day feminism looks like, in terms of scale, coverage and inclusivity. Kisha Bari’s images feel instantly iconic, and will undoubtedly be added to the catalog of feminist history for being one of the few photographers to cover the making of such a large-scale protest. —Kate Bubacz, senior photo editor, BuzzFeed News  “Honest Photos of Motherhood Challenge What We Think of as Natural” — Leah DeVun / Via leahdevun.com Leah DeVun / Via leahdevun.com , she focused on apparatuses that aid women in performing the very maternal act of nursing their offspring. The portraits are very direct. They don’t hold back in showing the viewer what it really takes to care for a child after birth. DeVun also shows that there’s nothing wrong or unnatural with using technology to help with breastfeeding. —Anna Mendoza, photo editor, BuzzFeed Australia  “This Is What International Women’s Day Looked Like Around The World” — BuzzFeed News women across the world marked International Women’s Day by marching for various women’s rights, including health care, immigration, freedom from sexual violence, and equal pay. This roundup of images is testament to the incredible power of intercommunication in the digital age, when a woman on one side of the globe can raise her voice in unison with her sisters on the other. As these pictures convey, this year’s International Women’s Day was inspiring beyond belief. —Gabriel H. Sanchez, photo essay editor, BuzzFeed News  “A Crude Awakening” — for taking a sweeping 360-degree look at the effects of the proposed Keystone and Dakota Access pipelines. Although the edit is concise, the scale and breadth of coverage is impressive, showing the impact that the oil industry has across Canada and the continental United States. —K.B.  “8 Portraits of Refugees That Will Help You Understand the Refugee Experience” — BuzzFeed News and the faces only begin to hint at the poignancy of the subject’s stories. I hope Brandon Hill continues this work — it’s all the more relevant as a nation of immigrants begins to grapple with the future of that legacy. —K.B.  “These Extremely Uncomfortable Photographs Are Guaranteed to Make You Squirm” — Ambera Wellmann Ambera Wellmann a strong visceral reaction from the viewer. In this collection of still lifes on ’s , photographer Ambera Wellmann whimsically plays with these emotions by creating a photo project best described as uncomfortable. There’s something deeply troubling about these pictures, and while I can’t exactly put my thumb on it, the collection constitutes a great example of creativity in young photographers today. —G.H.S.  “Mozart in Nairobi’s Korogocho Slum” — in this photo essay is how Eva de Vries placed the children with their instruments in the middle of the slum. There’s quietness and serenity amid everything that’s not. By doing so, de Vries encapsulated the message of the story in her portraits: the impact that music has had in the lives of these children. —A.M.  “Women Photograph: War, Weddings and Nightclub Queues” — Jackie Dewe Mathews / Via womenphotograph.com Abbie Trayler-Smith / Panos / Via womenphotograph.com the undeniably extensive ways in which female photographers have made an impact. If industry awards were to paint the picture, women seem to make up only a small portion of photojournalism. But the Women Photograph website proves otherwise, breaking misconceptions and showing that women also belong in areas of war and conflict. —A.M.  “21 of the Most Powerful Photos of this Week” — BuzzFeed News   32 Funny Tweets That Are Completely Underrated    Just 41 Facts About Anna Faris And Chris Pratt's Adorable...

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.