24 Catholic Tweets That Will Make You Laugh So Hard You’ll Have To Go To Confession
24 Catholic Tweets That Will Make You Laugh So Hard You'll Have To Go To Confession
This way-too-accurate starter pack when your stomach is rumbling during Lenten Fridays: The "I'm hungry but it's a Friday during Lent" starter pack This Ash Wednesday visual pun: #AshWednesday And this unfortunate, yet truly divine mistake: I went to get my full license and forgot it was Ash Wednesday. This totally spot-on summary of every Catholic mass ever: Stand. 
Sit. 
Kneel. 
Repeat. 
#GrowingUpCatholic This Ash Wednesday dad joke: *priest drags ashes across my upper lip*
PRIEST: [whispering] stache wednesday Every time this awkward exchange goes down in the pews: When someone ignore your sign of peace during mass #catholicproblems Or this one: Awkward sign of peace. #GrowingUpCatholic And this cringe-worthy moment when you need a map to get back to your pew: When you're walking back from communion and you forget which pew you're sitting in #GrowingUpCatholic When you’ve absolved yourself of your sins, but know you’ll be back to confess some more later: Walking out of confession but knowing you'll be back again next week with the same exact sins. #GrowingUpCatholic When the priest FINALLY gets it right on Ash Wednesday for once: When you realize that you actually got an Ash that looks like a Cross instead of a smudge for the 1st time… https://t.co/HaXaO0AlZc When you pull this romantic maneuver during mass: #GrowingUpCatholic sitting next to your crush during mass so you can hold hands during the Our Father When you think the priest is going to slightly mist you with holy water, but it actually turns into this: #growingupcatholic getting hit with holy water When you go to your non-Catholic friend’s church service and are totally caught off-guard: when you're Catholic and step into a Protestant service for the first time #growingupcatholic When you need to put this reminder into your calendar during the entirety of Lent: Honestly, I'll probably still forget #catholicproblems When you’re sitting there realizing mass is going to go over 60 minutes: #growingupcatholic when the Priest has a really really long Homily and a baby starts crying and you're just like: And it seems like mass might never, ever end: When the announcement at the end of Mass are longer than the homily. #catholicproblems When only a true Catholic would get this meme… What in transubstantiation …and this one too: Adam waking up missing a rib and with a wife When everyone was fangirling during the Grammys but this was all you saw: Bet few people know what Beyoncé was dressed up as. #growingupcatholic You’ll definitely laugh at this “birthday card” to celebrate Jesus’ big day last year: I'm sorry, I had to. Happy birthday Jesus! Whenever there were, and still are, snacks in the parish hall after mass: "There will be donuts after mass"

Me as soon as mass ends: When you remember thinking these words in your head as a kid during mass: "May the force be with you"

"And also with you." 
#GrowingUpCatholic And also remembering this totally happening on Sundays growing up: when ur parents wake u up early for morning masses #GrowingUpCatholic And finally, when the entire church rushes out to avoid the inevitable parking lot traffic jam following mass: I. Am. Dying. #GrowingUpCatholic   21 Hilarious Lucille Bluth Quotes That Will Make You...    17 Little But Mind-Blowing Details You Missed In "Beauty...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.