Classic East & Classic West Festivals Reveal Who Will Join Eagles, Fleetwood Mac on Lineup
Classic East & Classic West Festivals Reveal Who Will Join Eagles, Fleetwood Mac on Lineup
Classic East & Classic West Festivals Reveal Who Will Join Eagles, Fleetwood Mac on Lineup  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Steely Dan, The Doobie Brothers, Journey and Earth, Wind & Fire will also play two nights in New York & L.A. Six artists will play the inaugural Classic East and Classic West festivals in New York and Los Angeles, has learned. Eagles will open the first night of the series with Steely Dan and The Doobie Brothers .Â The second night will feature performancesÂ by Fleetwood Mac , Journey andÂ Earth, Wind & Fire . Classic West will kick off July 15-16 at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, with Classic East scheduled two weeks later,Â July 29-30, at CitiÂ Field in New York. The fall lineup comes just a week after broke the story that the Eagles and Fleetwood Mac were planning a summer series and possible festival franchiseÂ organized by Azoff MSG Entertainment, Live Nation, the Oak ViewÂ GroupÂ and CAA.  Classic East and Classic WestÂ are being compared to last year's Desert Trip festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, California. The Goldenvoice-promoted eventÂ took place over two weekends and included performances by The Rolling Stones , Paul McCartney , Roger Waters , Bob Dylan , Neil Young Â and The Who , generatingÂ a staggering $160 million gross. AEG Presents Chairman Jay Marciano has not yet revealed if Desert Trip will return in 2017. All six bands at the inaugural Classic East and Classic West festival have management ties to music mogul Irving Azoff, and four new artists announced Friday (March 10) are touring throughout the summer.Â Steely Dan is playing a nine-show residency this April at the Venetian in Las Vegas, whileÂ Journey has tour dates booked throughout 2017 leading up to the first weekend of the festival. Earth, Wind & Fire are touring through July and playing the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Fest on May 5, while The Doobie Brothers are touring in July and June with Chicago. Fleetwood Mac and the Eagles have not announced any additional 2017 dates beyond Classic East and Classic West.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Walter Becker and Donald Fagen of Steely Dan perform at the Hollywood Bowl Opening Night at the Hollywood Bowl on June 18, 2016 in Hollywood, Calif.

Steely Dan, The Doobie Brothers, Journey and Earth, Wind & Fire will also play two nights in New York & L.A.

Six artists will play the inaugural Classic East and Classic West festivals in New York and Los Angeles, Billboard has learned.

Eagles will open the first night of the series with Steely Dan and The Doobie Brothers.Â The second night will feature performancesÂ by Fleetwood Mac, Journey andÂ Earth, Wind & Fire. Classic West will kick off July 15-16 at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, with Classic East scheduled two weeks later,Â July 29-30, at CitiÂ Field in New York.

The fall lineup comes just a week after Billboard broke the story that the Eagles and Fleetwood Mac were planning a summer series and possible festival franchiseÂ organized by Azoff MSG Entertainment, Live Nation, the Oak ViewÂ GroupÂ and CAA.

Classic East and Classic WestÂ are being compared to last year's Desert Trip festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, California. The Goldenvoice-promoted eventÂ took place over two weekends and included performances by The Rolling Stones, Paul McCartney, Roger Waters, Bob Dylan, Neil YoungÂ and The Who, generatingÂ a staggering $160 million gross. AEG Presents Chairman Jay Marciano has not yet revealed if Desert Trip will return in 2017.

All six bands at the inaugural Classic East and Classic West festival have management ties to music mogul Irving Azoff, and four new artists announced Friday (March 10) are touring throughout the summer.Â Steely Dan is playing a nine-show residency this April at the Venetian in Las Vegas, whileÂ Journey has tour dates booked throughout 2017 leading up to the first weekend of the festival. Earth, Wind & Fire are touring through July and playing the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Fest on May 5, while The Doobie Brothers are touring in July and June with Chicago.

Fleetwood Mac and the Eagles have not announced any additional 2017 dates beyond Classic East and Classic West.