Hamantaschen finally gets a jello shot upgrade
Hamantaschen finally gets a jello shot upgrade
If you've ever been to a Purim party (this year, the holiday falls on Mar. 11 and 12), you've likely eaten hamantaschen, a triangular cookie filled with prunes or other fruit jam. Sorry if you fell asleep, they just aren't that exciting. Until this year, that is, when Rebecca Firkser, of My Jewish Learning , created hamantaschen jello shots. SEE ALSO: Sushi donuts will make your Instagram feed a little more delicious in 2017 The idea came because the Talmud (important Jewish text regarding many different subjects including law, tradition and history) specifically says Purim is a time for wine and revelry. Firkser says, "Indeed, we could be delicate and pour a proper glass of wine while munching on a cookie. Yet, as so few occasions exist within the Jewish holidays to really let loose, let’s embrace the joy this holiday represents and have some fun!" These are hamantaschen in name and appearance alone - they are really all alcoholic wonder. Like a classic jello shot, they are made with gelatin (which is not kosher), juice, wine and vodka. Like a traditional hamantaschen, they are shaped like triangles and have a fruity topping. @TuttleSinger Jello shot hamantaschen....just saying👍 — Ish. (@slingshot_the) March 10, 2017 It's the best of both worlds, plus a great way to get drunk with your boyfriend at your family dinner while still convincingly saying, "We have to eat the hamantaschen, mom! It's " WATCH: Homemade 3D Printer Puts Designs In Jello Shots

If you've ever been to a Purim party (this year, the holiday falls on Mar. 11 and 12), you've likely eaten hamantaschen, a triangular cookie filled with prunes or other fruit jam.

Sorry if you fell asleep, they just aren't that exciting.

Until this year, that is, when Rebecca Firkser, of My Jewish Learning, created hamantaschen jello shots.

SEE ALSO: Sushi donuts will make your Instagram feed a little more delicious in 2017

The idea came because the Talmud (important Jewish text regarding many different subjects including law, tradition and history) specifically says Purim is a time for wine and revelry. Firkser says, "Indeed, we could be delicate and pour a proper glass of wine while munching on a cookie. Yet, as so few occasions exist within the Jewish holidays to really let loose, let’s embrace the joy this holiday represents and have some fun!"

These are hamantaschen in name and appearance alone - they are really all alcoholic wonder. Like a classic jello shot, they are made with gelatin (which is not kosher), juice, wine and vodka. Like a traditional hamantaschen, they are shaped like triangles and have a fruity topping.

It's the best of both worlds, plus a great way to get drunk with your boyfriend at your family dinner while still convincingly saying, "We have to eat the hamantaschen, mom! It's tradition!"