SRK Undergoes Shoulder Surgery For The Second Time, Shares The ‘Sweet’ Thing That Doctors Did
SRK Undergoes Shoulder Surgery For The Second Time, Shares The ‘Sweet’ Thing That Doctors Did
SRK Undergoes Shoulder Surgery For The Second Time, Shares The ‘Sweet’ Thing That Doctors Did However, it seems that the shoulder was troubling the superstar yet again, and so he, recently, underwent another surgery. The actor revealed about the same on Instagram and shared a picture of his hand, which had “not me” written on it. Interestingly, to avoid the confusion, the doctors wrote “not me” on his right hand. SRK says that this gesture was “sweet.” Had a minor follow up surgery on my left shoulder.They marked my right hand like this, so there is no mistake. Sweet A post shared by Shah Rukh Khan (@iamsrk) on Mar 10, 2017 at 3:09am PST

Shah Rukh Khan has undergone quite a few surgeries in the past. From his knee injury to the one in shoulder and toe, the King of Bollywood has suffered it all. However, his issue with the shoulder has been almost a decade long.

In the recent past, he underwent a shoulder injury, after which he was seen with a cool handsling for quite some time. He even walked the ramp with it, making it look like a style statement.

indianexpress.com

However, it seems that the shoulder was troubling the superstar yet again, and so he, recently, underwent another surgery. The actor revealed about the same on Instagram and shared a picture of his hand, which had “not me” written on it.

Interestingly, to avoid the confusion, the doctors wrote “not me” on his right hand. SRK says that this gesture was “sweet.”

Had a minor follow up surgery on my left shoulder.They marked my right hand like this, so there is no mistake. Sweet A post shared by Shah Rukh Khan (@iamsrk) on Mar 10, 2017 at 3:09am PST

Shah Rukh Khan first suffered the shoulder injury in 2007 while he was filming for Dulha Mil Gaya. He was hurt again on the same shoulder in 2008 on the sets of My Name Is Khan. The actor waited for shooting of the film to get over before he could start the medical treatment. However, in 2013, while filming for Rohit Shetty's Chennai Express, he, again, underwent a surgery.

We hope a speedy recovery for SRK!