Sean Spicer’s Quick Twitter Reaction to Jobs Report May Break a Rule
Sean Spicer’s Quick Twitter Reaction to Jobs Report May Break a Rule
Oops. The enthusiastic reaction of Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, was understandable on Friday when the Labor Department reported a gain of 235,000 jobs. “Great news for American workers,” he proclaimed on Twitter 22 minutes after the Labor Department release, “in first report for @POTUS Trump.” Mr. Spicer was probably just following President Trump’s lead. At 8:41 a.m., 11 minutes after the report’s 8:30 release, Mr. Trump reposted a Twitter message sent by the conservative website Drudge Report that linked to a news report with the comment “GREAT AGAIN: +235,000.” But those messages on Twitter apparently violate a federal rule barring executive branch employees from publicly commenting on principal economic indicators for at least one hour after the official release time. Great news for American workers: economy added 235,000 new jobs, unemployment rate drops to 4.7% in first report for @POTUS Trump Announced in the Federal Register on Sept. 25, 1985, when Ronald Reagan was president, the rule was adopted “to preserve the distinction between the policy-neutral release of data by statistical agencies and their interpretation by policy officials,” and to avoid affecting “financial and commodity markets,” according to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, part of the Office of Management and Budget. 1985 Rule on Release of Information “All employees of the executive branch who receive prerelease distribution of information and data estimates as authorized above are responsible for assuring that there is no release prior to the official release time. Except for members of the staff of the agency issuing the principal economic indicator who have been designated by the agency head to provide technical explanations of the data, employees of .” Read the original document in the federal register. The rule as published in the Federal Register does not include a penalty for violation. The White House receives the jobs data through the Council of Economic Advisers on Thursday afternoon, before its Friday release. Advertisement Jason Furman, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in President Barack Obama’s second term, said by email on Friday: “The interpretation of our administration (like Clinton and Bush) was that this applied to POTUS. There were times they wanted Obama to comment, his flight or whatever was taking off at 9:20 and they would hold off until 9:30 so he could comment then.” Of course the Trump administration’s delight was no surprise. And at a White House briefing on Friday afternoon, Mr. Spicer addressed the issue with self-deprecation . “Don’t make me make the podium move,” he told a questioner, alluding to a parody of his briefing style on “ Saturday Night Live .” He said that while “I understand the rule,” he felt his post had caused no market disruption because the news was already out. “I apologize if we were a little excited, and we’re so excited to see so many Americans back to work,” he added. Follow Patricia Cohen on Twitter: @PatCohenNYT A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2017, on Page A15 of the with the headline: Quick Praise of Job Gains May Break Federal Rule.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Oops.

The enthusiastic reaction of Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, was understandable on Friday when the Labor Department reported a gain of 235,000 jobs. “Great news for American workers,” he proclaimed on Twitter 22 minutes after the Labor Department release, “in first report for @POTUS Trump.”

Mr. Spicer was probably just following President Trump’s lead. At 8:41 a.m., 11 minutes after the report’s 8:30 release, Mr. Trump reposted a Twitter message sent by the conservative website Drudge Report that linked to a news report with the comment “GREAT AGAIN: +235,000.”

But those messages on Twitter apparently violate a federal rule barring executive branch employees from publicly commenting on principal economic indicators for at least one hour after the official release time.

Announced in the Federal Register on Sept. 25, 1985, when Ronald Reagan was president, the rule was adopted “to preserve the distinction between the policy-neutral release of data by statistical agencies and their interpretation by policy officials,” and to avoid affecting “financial and commodity markets,” according to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, part of the Office of Management and Budget.

The rule as published in the Federal Register does not include a penalty for violation. The White House receives the jobs data through the Council of Economic Advisers on Thursday afternoon, before its Friday release.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jason Furman, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in President Barack Obama’s second term, said by email on Friday: “The interpretation of our administration (like Clinton and Bush) was that this applied to POTUS. There were times they wanted Obama to comment, his flight or whatever was taking off at 9:20 and they would hold off until 9:30 so he could comment then.”

Of course the Trump administration’s delight was no surprise. And at a White House briefing on Friday afternoon, Mr. Spicer addressed the issue with self-deprecation. “Don’t make me make the podium move,” he told a questioner, alluding to a parody of his briefing style on “Saturday Night Live.”

He said that while “I understand the rule,” he felt his post had caused no market disruption because the news was already out. “I apologize if we were a little excited, and we’re so excited to see so many Americans back to work,” he added.