The 7 most expensive TV shows ever made: From Game of Thrones to Friends
The 7 most expensive TV shows ever made: From Game of Thrones to Friends
Thanks to Netflix and HBO, TV shows are growing more and more expensive to produce, the likes of , , and all having huge budgets. has worked out the seven most expensive TV shows of all time, and - surprise surprise - the most expensive come from lucrative streaming services. The ‘cheapest’ show mentioned is , the sci-fi Netflix series written by The Wachowskis that focusses on eight complete strangers who suddenly become emotionally linked. The show reportedly cost $9 million per episode. HBO’s and both cost $10 million per episode, the former being far less popular and leading to the show being cancelled after two seasons. In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6               In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6    Ramsay Bolton   Fed to the hounds by his ex-wife      Tommen Baratheon   Jumped out of a window      Rickon Stark   Shot by Ramsay with an arrow      Grand Maester Pycelle   Stabbed by little birds      Loras Tyrell   Wildfire      Alliser Thorne   Hung      Olly   Hung #F*ckOlly      Walder Frey   Ticked off the list      Shaggydog   Head cut off      Summer   Ripped apart by White Walkers      High Sparrow   Wildfire      The Blackfish   Killed off-screen…      Hodor   Hold the door…      Trystane Martell   Stabbed through the face by those damned Sand Snakes      Leaf   Blown up saving Bran      Walda Frey and her little boy   Fed to the hounds      Balon Greyjoy   Thrown off a bridge by his brother      Lady Crane   Fell off a chair      Mace Tyrell   Wildfire      The Waif   Killed in the dark by Arya Stark      Lothar Frey and Black Walder Rivers   Fray pie      Brother Lancel Lannister   Stabbed once then blown up by Wildfire      Lem Lemoncloak   Hung by the Brotherhood Without Banners plus The Hound      Brother Ray   Hung by Leomoncloak and his gang      Three-Eyed Raven   Killed by the Night’s King      Margaery Tyrell   Wildfire      Khal Rhalko, Khal Brozho, Khal Qorro, Khal Forzho, Khal Moro   Burnt by the Mother of Dragons      Roose Bolton   Stabbed in the chest by his own son      Kevan Lannister   Wildfire      Smalljon Umber   Beaten by Tormund      Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun   That Goddamn Ramsay again      Osha   Throat slit by Ramsay      Doran Martell   Stabbed in the hearth by Ellaria Sand      Areo Hotah   Stabbed in the spine by Tyene Sand   Surprisingly, also cost $10 million. However, the costs weren’t production value like the HBO shows but the salary per main-cast member, each of whom made $1 million per episode. The third most expensive show is , which starred George Clooney, Anthony Edwards, and Sherry Stringfield and cost $13 million per episode.   Netflix Plans to Test More Interactive Content in 2017 In second comes Baz Luhrmann’s , produced by Netflix for $120 million for the first season. This, however, is now only Netflix’s second most expensive show, being beaten by , the first season for which cost $130 million, making it the most expensive TV series of all time. Meanwhile, in the film world, the upcoming third and fourth Avengers films are expected to be the most expensive films ever made, costing $1 billion in total. More about: The Get Down The Crown Game of Thrones Friends Comments

Thanks to Netflix and HBO, TV shows are growing more and more expensive to produce, the likes of The Crown, The Get Down, and Game of Thrones all having huge budgets.

Time has worked out the seven most expensive TV shows of all time, and - surprise surprise - the most expensive come from lucrative streaming services.

The ‘cheapest’ show mentioned is Sense 8, the sci-fi Netflix series written by The Wachowskis that focusses on eight complete strangers who suddenly become emotionally linked. The show reportedly cost $9 million per episode.

HBO’s Rome and Game of Thrones both cost $10 million per episode, the former being far less popular and leading to the show being cancelled after two seasons.

In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6







34 show all In memoriam: Every major character who died in Game of Thrones season 6

































































1/34 Ramsay Bolton Fed to the hounds by his ex-wife

2/34 Tommen Baratheon Jumped out of a window

3/34 Rickon Stark Shot by Ramsay with an arrow

4/34 Grand Maester Pycelle Stabbed by little birds

5/34 Loras Tyrell Wildfire

6/34 Alliser Thorne Hung

7/34 Olly Hung #F*ckOlly

8/34 Walder Frey Ticked off the list

9/34 Shaggydog Head cut off

10/34 Summer Ripped apart by White Walkers

11/34 High Sparrow Wildfire

12/34 The Blackfish Killed off-screen…

13/34 Hodor Hold the door…

14/34 Trystane Martell Stabbed through the face by those damned Sand Snakes

15/34 Leaf Blown up saving Bran

16/34 Walda Frey and her little boy Fed to the hounds

17/34 Balon Greyjoy Thrown off a bridge by his brother

18/34 Lady Crane Fell off a chair

19/34 Mace Tyrell Wildfire

20/34 The Waif Killed in the dark by Arya Stark

21/34 Lothar Frey and Black Walder Rivers Fray pie

22/34 Brother Lancel Lannister Stabbed once then blown up by Wildfire

23/34 Lem Lemoncloak Hung by the Brotherhood Without Banners plus The Hound

24/34 Brother Ray Hung by Leomoncloak and his gang

25/34 Three-Eyed Raven Killed by the Night’s King

26/34 Margaery Tyrell Wildfire

27/34 Khal Rhalko, Khal Brozho, Khal Qorro, Khal Forzho, Khal Moro Burnt by the Mother of Dragons

28/34 Roose Bolton Stabbed in the chest by his own son

29/34 Kevan Lannister Wildfire

30/34 Smalljon Umber Beaten by Tormund

31/34 Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun That Goddamn Ramsay again

32/34 Osha Throat slit by Ramsay

33/34 Doran Martell Stabbed in the hearth by Ellaria Sand

34/34 Areo Hotah Stabbed in the spine by Tyene Sand

Surprisingly, Friends also cost $10 million. However, the costs weren’t production value like the HBO shows but the salary per main-cast member, each of whom made $1 million per episode.

The third most expensive show is ER, which starred George Clooney, Anthony Edwards, and Sherry Stringfield and cost $13 million per episode.

In second comes Baz Luhrmann’s The Get Down, produced by Netflix for $120 million for the first season. This, however, is now only Netflix’s second most expensive show, being beaten by The Crown, the first season for which cost $130 million, making it the most expensive TV series of all time.

Meanwhile, in the film world, the upcoming third and fourth Avengers films are expected to be the most expensive films ever made, costing $1 billion in total.