Married mother-of-two dies after undergoing liposuction
Married mother-of-two, 32, dies after undergoing liposuction surgery


A married mother-of-two from the Caribbean island of Antigua died this week, after flying to the U.S. to undergo plastic surgery.

Nikisha Lewis, 32, who works as an airport immigration officer, underwent liposuction surgery on Monday at Spectrum Aesthetics in Miami.

Around 5:30pm, someone at the clinic called 911 when Lewis stopped breathing.

Lewis was rushed to the hospital where she was pronounced dead about two hours later.

Scroll down for video

Nikisha Lewis, 32 (pictured), died on Monday after undergoing liposuction surgery in Miami

The married mother-of-two worked as an immigration officer at an airport on the Caribbean island of Antigua

Liposuction is a plastic surgery procedure in which a doctor inserts a hollow tube under the skin to suction out fat.

Death occurs in about one per ten thousand cases. Other serious complications include deep vein thrombosis, organ perforation, bleeding and infection.

The Miami Dade Medical Examiner's office said the cause of death could not be determined immediately and that it could take weeks for the final results of the autopsy.

Dr Rami Ghurani was Lewis' surgeon on Monday. His attorney, Julie Ingle, sent a statement to NBC 6, reading: 'Our deepest condolences go out to the patient’s family.

'Dr. Ghurani is deeply saddened by the loss of his patient and offers his thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.

'We are unable to provide any details on the patient’s care and treatment due to privacy laws; however, Dr. Ghurani provided the highest level of care as he does with all patients.'

Police have launched a homicide investigation into her death.

The clinic has said they are also conducting their own review, WSVN 7 reported.

She was rushed to hospital after someone at the clinic called 911, but died two hours later. Homicide police are not investigating what happened

Someone at the Miami clinic (pictured) called 911 around 5:30pm on Monday, saying Lewis had stopped breathing

Kubs Lalchandani, an attorney for the clinic, also said that he could not comment on the death.

'Our prayers go out to the patient’s family and loved ones. Spectrum Aesthetics is a proud member of the South Florida community and is committed to upholding the highest standards of medical care and patient safety.

'Spectrum is conducting a comprehensive investigation into the matter and is cooperating with state officials to determine the cause of the incident,' Lalchandani said in a statement.