Did Shia LaBeouf Or James Franco Do This Crazy Thing?
Did Shia LaBeouf Or James Franco Do This Crazy Thing?
Back in November 2015 he rented out the Anjelica theater in New York City and watched his entire acting career before his very eyes. It was also livestreamed.               He married his longtime girlfriend Mia Goth in October of 2016.               He played a villain named Franco (duh) on .               In February 2016 he spent a full day in an elevator in Oxford hanging out with fans. Again, livestreamed.               Shia hired an airplane to write “I am sorry Daniel Clowes” over Los Angeles after he was accused of plagiarizing the author’s work.               It happened at Sundance, but it didn’t stay there .               For the record, he blamed the entire incident on whiskey.               Yep, Shia holed himself up on Beverly Boulevard in Los Angeles with a bag over his head for a week in 2014. Visitors were allowed to go inside and interact with him , and let me tell you from experience: IT WAS WEIRD.               Yep, James did that to a sock on a the livestream .               He was arrested at the scene of his “He Will Not Divide Us” protest installation against Donald Trump.  Did Shia LaBeouf Or James Franco Do This Crazy Thing?  Shia & Franco Novice  You know enough to tell the difference between James Franco and Shia LaBeouf, but do you ? Study up and try again.     Shia & Franco Expert  You know the ins and outs of two of Hollywood’s most talked-about weirdos. Congratulations!    SHARE YOUR RESULTS   57 Throwback Photos From The Nickelodeon Kids' Choice...    Just 41 Facts About Anna Faris And Chris Pratt's Adorable...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Who sat in a room for days with a bag over his head that read "I am not famous anymore"?

Shia!

Yep, Shia holed himself up on Beverly Boulevard in Los Angeles with a bag over his head for a week in 2014. Visitors were allowed to go inside and interact with him, and let me tell you from experience: IT WAS WEIRD.