Gunman Robs Florida Blood Bank, Tells Staff He's Hungry
Gunman Robs Blood Bank, Tells Staff He's Hungry
The gunman targeted the offices of Continental Services Group Inc. near Fort Lauderdale at 10:36 a.m. on Mar. 3. Surveillance footage shows how the suspect walked up to the reception desk and wielded the weapon at staff. Police said the unidentified man then demanded money from employees and told them, “ I’m hungry. ” He fled with a beige cash box which one of the workers handed over. It’s unclear how much money he stole. Robber drains blood bank of cash, and now we need your help identifying the suspect: https://t.co/pq2C7g4Q64  pic.twitter.com/LWdimjVZ5Y Anyone with information should call the Sheriff’s Office on 954-321-4738 or Broward Crime Stoppers anonymously via 954-493-TIPS (8477). Related Coverage  Watch A Kebab Shop Owner Stay Super Chill During An Armed Robbery   Adult Store Workers Throw Sex Toys To Scare Off Armed Robber   7-Eleven Clerk Beats Robber At Terrifying Game Of Tug-Of-War   Man Tries To Rob A Chuck E. Cheese During Own Job Interview  ALSO ON HUFFPOST Dumb Criminals: Mugshot Gallery       Share this slide:       MORE:

An armed robber wearing an “Iron Man” sweatshirt hit up a blood bank in Florida this month.

The gunman targeted the offices of Continental Services Group Inc. near Fort Lauderdale at 10:36 a.m. on Mar. 3.

Surveillance footage shows how the suspect walked up to the reception desk and wielded the weapon at staff. Police said the unidentified man then demanded money from employees and told them, “I’m hungry.”

He fled with a beige cash box which one of the workers handed over. It’s unclear how much money he stole.

Robber drains blood bank of cash, and now we need your help identifying the suspect: https://t.co/pq2C7g4Q64 pic.twitter.com/LWdimjVZ5Y — Broward Sheriff (@browardsheriff) March 9, 2017

Broward Sheriff’s Office is offering up to $3,000 as a reward for tips leading to the arrest of the suspect, described as 5ft 9ins tall and 160 to 180 pounds.