Poll analysis: Theresa May’s extended honeymoon as Prime Minister is officially over
Poll analysis: Theresa May’s extended honeymoon as Prime Minister is officially over
f the Conservatives are no longer the party of low tax , what are they for? That will be the question running through the mind of the Prime Minister as she digests today’s ComRes poll in the Telegraph carried out in the days after Wednesday’s disastrous Budget. The findings are a brutal assessment of Theresa May’s inexplicable decision to allow her Chancellor to rip up her party’s 2015 general election manifesto pledge not to raise National Insurance. The manifesto – which both Mrs May and Philip Hammond signed up to - said: “We will not raise VAT, National Insurance Contributions or Income Tax.” oters are not stupid. They know what a promise looks like. Mr Hammond’s tortuous justification that it only applied to NICs paid by those in employment and not the self-employed never stood up to scrutiny. And, sure enough, in the Telegraph/ComRes survey, more than half of the public – 55 per cent– thought that Mrs May should have honoured this pledge not to increase NICs. If the decision to scrap the pledge was a calculated political gamble (because those hit hardest would always be likely to vote Tory) it appears to have failed. One in seven Conservative voters now say they are less likely to vote to return Mrs May's party to Government at the next election as a result of the Budget. And nearly half of the British public – 46 per cent – now say they are “less likely” to vote Conservative at the next election – compared to only 27 per cent who are “more likely”. ith one stroke of the pen Mrs May has managed to alienate the very voters she was desperate to attract when she became Tory leader. he survey found that exactly half of voters think the Tory party is “no longer a low tax party” while 47 per cent felt that the Budget makes them "trust the Conservative party less”. Mrs May has had an easy ride since being appointed Prime Minister by Tory MPs last summer, largely because the near absence of a serious Opposition under the party’s leader Jeremy Corbyn. But after the disastrous “omNICshambles” Budget, Mrs May’s extended eight-month honeymoon as Prime Minister is officially over. The timing could not be any worse. The Brexit process could start as early as Wednesday. Mrs May will need all the good fortune she can get just as it appears to have run out.

If the Conservatives are no longer the party of low tax, what are they for?

That will be the question running through the mind of the Prime Minister as she digests today’s ComRes poll in the Telegraph carried out in the days after Wednesday’s disastrous Budget.

The findings are a brutal assessment of Theresa May’s inexplicable decision to allow her Chancellor to rip up her party’s 2015 general election manifesto pledge not to raise National Insurance.

The manifesto – which both Mrs May and Philip Hammond signed up to - said: “We will not raise VAT, National Insurance Contributions or Income Tax.”