5 Traits Hiring Managers Look For

The job market these days can be a tricky place, especially if you’re the one trying to find a job. But by arming yourself with specific traits, you can showcase your talents and impress hiring managers during the interview process. Let’s take a closer look at some of the traits that hiring managers look for. Educated Contrary to popular belief, having a degree does matter. There has been a lot of chatter online stating that you don’t need a college degree in order to be successful. However, this couldn’t be further from the truth. Studies show that the unemployment rate for individuals who hold a bachelor’s degree is the lowest it has been since 2008. Additionally, by earning a degree, you’re showing hiring managers that you’re a dedicated, hard-working, educated achiever. Well Spoken Being able to effectively communicate is a necessity within any professional environment. When you possess the ability to communicate, you’re able to connect, correspond, inform and interact with your coworkers on a much higher level. Hiring mangers understand this and look for interpersonal skills when they’re interviewing candidates. If you feel that your communication skills could use some improvement, there are ways to quickly enhance them . Just remember to always remain professional when speaking during an interview. Willingness to Learn Having a thirst for knowledge is something that will benefit you throughout your entire life. In the workplace, a willingness to learn indicates that you’re flexible and teachable. These are traits that are extremely beneficial when it comes to setting yourself apart from the crowd. During an interview , it’s important to convey your ability to grasp new ideas. Showing that you have a willingness to learn proves that you’re trainable. This also shows your potential to be an asset to the company you are interviewing with. Ability to Produce Regardless of your profession or industry, the ability to produce will dramatically impact your success in the workplace. Hiring managers realize this and will be looking for traits that point towards an efficient and productive candidate. One way to show that you have the ability to produce is to present successful projects you’ve been a part of in the past. By displaying your experience as a producer, you’re giving proof that you can carry out and achieve success within your professional career. Works Well With Others If you look at any successful enterprise, you’ll see a successful team behind it. An effective team will almost always ensure success within any profession. That’s why it’s imperative to work well with others and try to always be a team player . Wherever you end up working, you’ll most likely be a part of some sort of team. Each team will be comprised of different types of individuals with different backgrounds, personalities, and levels of education. It’s imperative to understand that you’re a part of a diverse group of people trying to reach a shared goal. As you navigate through your professional career, try to showcase these traits to better position yourself within the job market.  --

The job market these days can be a tricky place, especially if you’re the one trying to find a job. But by arming yourself with specific traits, you can showcase your talents and impress hiring managers during the interview process.

Let’s take a closer look at some of the traits that hiring managers look for.

Educated

Contrary to popular belief, having a degree does matter. There has been a lot of chatter online stating that you don’t need a college degree in order to be successful. However, this couldn’t be further from the truth.

Studies show that the unemployment rate for individuals who hold a bachelor’s degree is the lowest it has been since 2008. Additionally, by earning a degree, you’re showing hiring managers that you’re a dedicated, hard-working, educated achiever.

Well Spoken

Being able to effectively communicate is a necessity within any professional environment. When you possess the ability to communicate, you’re able to connect, correspond, inform and interact with your coworkers on a much higher level.

Hiring mangers understand this and look for interpersonal skills when they’re interviewing candidates. If you feel that your communication skills could use some improvement, there are ways to quickly enhance them. Just remember to always remain professional when speaking during an interview.

Willingness to Learn

Having a thirst for knowledge is something that will benefit you throughout your entire life. In the workplace, a willingness to learn indicates that you’re flexible and teachable. These are traits that are extremely beneficial when it comes to setting yourself apart from the crowd.

During an interview, it’s important to convey your ability to grasp new ideas. Showing that you have a willingness to learn proves that you’re trainable. This also shows your potential to be an asset to the company you are interviewing with.

Ability to Produce

Regardless of your profession or industry, the ability to produce will dramatically impact your success in the workplace. Hiring managers realize this and will be looking for traits that point towards an efficient and productive candidate.

One way to show that you have the ability to produce is to present successful projects you’ve been a part of in the past. By displaying your experience as a producer, you’re giving proof that you can carry out and achieve success within your professional career.

Works Well With Others

If you look at any successful enterprise, you’ll see a successful team behind it. An effective team will almost always ensure success within any profession. That’s why it’s imperative to work well with others and try to always be a team player.

Wherever you end up working, you’ll most likely be a part of some sort of team. Each team will be comprised of different types of individuals with different backgrounds, personalities, and levels of education. It’s imperative to understand that you’re a part of a diverse group of people trying to reach a shared goal.

As you navigate through your professional career, try to showcase these traits to better position yourself within the job market.

Written by Ben Cummings, Digital Marketing Specialist at Bridgepoint Education.

--

Written by Ashford University staff