Texas Teacher Arrested for Allegedly Recording His Students Undressing
Texas Teacher Arrested for Allegedly Recording His Students Undressing
reports that George Edwin Thomas III, a Carrollton, Texas, high school teacher, has been charged with six counts of invasive visual recording after he allegedly used hidden cameras to capture female students changing into their uniforms at R.L. Turner High School. Thomas’ crimes were reportedly discovered by his girlfriend after she and a friend found a thumb drive on the floor of the couple's apartment. An arrest affidavit states that she watched the drive after she became suspicious that Thomas was cheating on her. She then discovered the recordings. Related Student Kicks Teacher in the Groin After Being Berated in Front of Class High School Teacher Asks Students to Snap a Selfie with Parent's Sex Toys for Extra Credit Long Island Guitar Teacher Accused of Statutory Rape The affidavit states that the drive contained “multiple video recordings of teenage girls disrobing in a closet,” as well as "recordings that appeared to be at a teacher's desk with female students being called to the desk." According to police, Thomas allegedly placed the camera in a way that gave him a view up his students’ skirts. When he was questioned by local police, Thomas admitted that he only recorded videos on his iPhone and that they were used “for the students to watch and learn.” With the charges still pending, Thomas has been placed on administrative leave, and the school released the following statement: “On Wednesday, February 22, 2017, officials with the Carrollton-Farmers Branch ISD were made aware of allegations of inappropriate conduct by a teacher at R. L. Turner High School.The district placed the teacher on administrative leave and is cooperating fully with all local and state authorities.” We'll continue to update as more information becomes available.

Fox News reports that George Edwin Thomas III, a Carrollton, Texas, high school teacher, has been charged with six counts of invasive visual recording after he allegedly used hidden cameras to capture female students changing into their uniforms at R.L. Turner High School.

Thomas’ crimes were reportedly discovered by his girlfriend after she and a friend found a thumb drive on the floor of the couple's apartment. An arrest affidavit states that she watched the drive after she became suspicious that Thomas was cheating on her. She then discovered the recordings.

The affidavit states that the drive contained “multiple video recordings of teenage girls disrobing in a closet,” as well as "recordings that appeared to be at a teacher's desk with female students being called to the desk." According to police, Thomas allegedly placed the camera in a way that gave him a view up his students’ skirts.

When he was questioned by local police, Thomas admitted that he only recorded videos on his iPhone and that they were used “for the students to watch and learn.” With the charges still pending, Thomas has been placed on administrative leave, and the school released the following statement:

“On Wednesday, February 22, 2017, officials with the Carrollton-Farmers Branch ISD were made aware of allegations of inappropriate conduct by a teacher at R. L. Turner High School.The district placed the teacher on administrative leave and is cooperating fully with all local and state authorities.”

We'll continue to update as more information becomes available.