NCAA Bracketology 2017: Real-Time Seed and Region Projections for All 68 Teams
NCAA Bracketology 2017: Real-Time Seed and Region Projections for All 68 Teams
On the eve of Selection Sunday, the 2017 NCAA tournament bubble is more clouded than ever. Teams like Kansas State and TCU played their way into the conversation with huge wins in the Big 12 tournament. Meanwhile, both Marquette and Providence necessitated more bubble scrutiny after their early losses from the Big East tournament. Realistically, we're probably looking at six teams battling for the last two spots, but until doing our final scrub of the tournament field on Sunday morning, we're leaving 14 teams in the conversation for the last five bids. And if teams like Middle Tennessee, Nevada or VCU fail to win their conference tournaments, that bubble will shrink even more. If you think March Madness doesn't start until next Thursday, you are sorely mistaken. Here's a look at Bleacher Report's projection of the tournament field as of , followed by pertinent information about the No. 1 seeds and the bubble: No. 16 in East  In descending order, Villanova, North Carolina, Gonzaga and Kansas are our projected No. 1 seeds. And at this point, it's tough to see that changing. Villanova is a stone-cold lock for the No. 1 overall seed, regardless of what happens in the Big East championship game against Creighton. North Carolina has five RPI Top 25, 11 RPI Top 50 and 17 RPI Top 100 wins. The Tar Heels are locked in, as well. Kansas lost to TCU to make things a little more interesting, but the Jayhawks finished the regular season at No. 1 in both the AP poll and the RPI. They should be alright. And Gonzaga went 32-1 with more than enough quality wins to prove it was no fluke. The Pac-12 champion will have a strong case for a No. 1 seed. So will the ACC champion and possibly Kentucky if it wins the SEC, but not one of them is likely to leapfrog any of the current No. 1 seeds. We'll re-evaluate after those major-conference tournaments end, though.  : Marquette Golden Eagles (19-12, RPI: 59, KP: 29, SOS: 49) After Vanderbilt defeated Florida for the third time this season to move comfortably into the field, Marquette slips one spot closer to the bubble. The Golden Eagles have eight RPI Top 50 wins, including one over Villanova, yet their RPI is somehow outside the top 50. The bigger concern is that they went just 4-5 against teams in the RPI 51-200 range. Also, four of their best wins were season sweeps of Creighton and Xavier after both of those teams lost their starting point guard for the season. Given their middling RPI, that's something that will be discussed in the selection room in these final few hours.  : USC Trojans (24-9, RPI: 43, KP: 61, SOS: 73) The Trojans have two great home wins over SMU and UCLA, but that's about it. They also have a bad loss to Arizona State and a not-great defeat to Utah. They appear to have done enough to get in, but St. Bonaventure was left out last season with a similar resume. The Bonnies were No. 30 in RPI and had three RPI Top 25 wins; two of which came on the road. For some reason, though, it wasn't enough. USC missed a chance to lock up its bid in the Pac-12 quarterfinals against UCLA and will now be sweating until Selection Sunday.  : Providence Friars (20-12, RPI: 56, KP: 56, SOS: 46) At Boston College. At DePaul. Vs. St. John's. At Ohio State. Those are just four of Providence's 12 losses. The Friars did have a great home win over Butler at the start of a six-game winning streak to finish the season, but that's their only victory against the RPI Top 25. It's easy to point to the six RPI Top 50 wins and the third-place finish in the Big East, but the full body of work leaves something to be desired. Providence also had a nonconference SOS rank of 181, and the selection committee loves to hammer bubble teams for not scheduling aggressively.  : Rhode Island Rams (22-9, RPI: 40, KP: 52, SOS: 61) Friday afternoon was both great and awful for Rhode Island. The great news is the Rams won their game against St. Bonaventure to advance to the A-10 semifinals. The awful news is Dayton lost to Davidson, so they have no hope of picking up a quality win over the Flyers in the semifinals. Then again, Dayton's loss increases Rhode Island's chances of winning the A-10 tournament and removing itself from the bubble conversation altogether. As it, the Rams have RPI Top 25 wins over Cincinnati and VCU and a couple of awful home losses to La Salle and Fordham.  : Kansas State Wildcats (20-12, RPI: 57, KP: 28, SOS: 37) Falling by one point to West Virginia on a neutral court thanks to a highly questionable foul call in the final 20 seconds is anything other than a bad loss for the Wildcats, so we're not going to (immediately) drop them out of the field for that result. However, they entered the game as the last team in, and a loss of any kind is not good when you're that bubbly. This remains one of the most puzzling resumes in the country. They have four great wins: two away from home against Baylor, one at Oklahoma State and one vs. West Virginia. But everything else—bad losses to Texas Tech and Oklahoma, 8-10 in Big 12, nonconference SOS rank of 228—reeks of a trip to the NIT. And you can almost take it to the bank every year that the committee will leave out one team that seems to have done enough to get in, citing its terrible nonconference schedule as the deciding factor.   : Illinois State Redbirds (26-6, RPI: 32, KP: 51, SOS: 126) Illinois State went 1-2 against Wichita State in its only games of the season against the RPI Top 50. The Redbirds also went 1-2 against teams in the RPI 51-100 range, beating New Mexico and losing to TCU and San Francisco. In addition to those losses, it slipped up against Tulsa (RPI: 131) and had a brutal season-opening loss to Murray State (RPI: 232). The team will be sitting on the bubble all week, but the balance of good wins and bad losses isn't promising.  : TCU Horned Frogs (18-15, RPI: 69, KP: 39, SOS: 29) This should be the year a 15-loss team makes the NCAA tournament as an at-large, but it probably won't be this one. TCU got as big of a win as any team could have asked for in a conference tournament, upsetting No. 1 Kansas in the Big 12 quarterfinals. But that win merely got the Horned Frogs onto the bubble. They still needed a win over Iowa State in the semifinals to have a good shot at a bid. Instead, they lost by 21. Maybe they'd get in if there were a few more quality wins on their resume, but the Horned Frogs are just 4-12 against the RPI Top 100 with three more losses to worse competition. Great first year for Jamie Dixon, but it likely won't be enough.  : Monmouth Hawks (27-6, RPI: 47, KP: 80, SOS: 183) Hey, remember these guys? Everyone thought Monmouth was dead after its loss to Siena in the MAAC semifinals, but outside of TCU and Kansas State winning their Big 12 quarterfinals, what has any team that started the week on the wrong side of the bubble done to bypass the Hawks? If Middle Tennessee, Texas-Arlington, Nevada, Vermont and Princeton win their conference tournaments, there might be an at-large case for Monmouth as the one great minor-conference team that fell short. But if any of those teams fail to get the job done, it would likely be curtains for the Hawks.  : Iowa Hawkeyes (18-14, RPI: 81, KP: 70, SOS: 52) Despite getting obliterated by Indiana in the second round of the Big Ten tournament, Iowa is still in the conversation. Those road wins over Maryland and Wisconsin from a couple of weeks ago still happened, as did the home wins over Iowa State, Purdue and Michigan. That's five RPI Top 50 wins with no losses outside the RPI Top 150. The Hawkeyes have a pretty bad RPI, but so does Syracuse. And at least a couple of Iowa's best wins came away from home.  : Syracuse Orange (18-14, RPI: 85, KP: 50, SOS: 55) The loss to Miami in the second round of the ACC tournament dropped Syracuse to 2-11 away from home and bumped its RPI to 84. (No team has ever gotten an at-large bid with a worse RPI rank than 72.) The two wins came on a buzzer-beater at Clemson and a frantic overtime comeback at North Carolina State neither of which is in the projected field. People will say Syracuse will get in because it got in last year, but last year's team had a huge road win at Duke and big neutral-court wins over Connecticut and Texas A&M. People will also say Syracuse deserves to get in for going 10-8 in ACC play, but if that's the reason, it'll be the first time in NCAA tournament history that conference record mattered. A home win over Monmouth was Syracuse's only nonconference RPI Top 150 win, and half of its ACC wins came against teams unlikely to make the tournament. It's not looking good.  : California Golden Bears (21-12, RPI: 54, KP: 58, SOS: 42) A road win over bubbly USC was California's only RPI Top 50 win of the season. It also has several questionable losses to San Diego State, Stanford, Utah and Colorado. Getting to the Pac-12 semis was a must, but failing to beat Oregon is going to keep the Golden Bears out of the field.  : Ole Miss Rebels (20-13, RPI: 75, KP: 77, SOS: 66) Ole Miss came so close to getting right into the thick of the at-large conversation in the SEC quarterfinals against Arkansas, but the Rebels ultimately lost by a point. Still, they haven't suffered a single loss to a team outside the KenPom Top 70, and they do have a couple of quality wins. The RPI will most likely keep them out, but we've been surprised by teams with minimal quality wins and no bad losses before.  : Alabama Crimson Tide (19-13, RPI: 79, KP: 54, SOS: 71) Don't look now, but if Alabama can upset Kentucky in the SEC semifinals, it still has a chance to get in. The Crimson Tide were swept by Auburn, but they also picked up two wins over South Carolina and a third Top 50 RPI win over Vanderbilt. They're well beyond the fringe at the moment, but a neutral-court win over the Wildcats would change that.  : Illinois Fighting Illini (17-14, RPI: 63, KP: 71, SOS: 20) Illinois was in good shape prior to finishing the season with a loss at Rutgers and a blowout loss to Michigan. The Illini have good numbers against the RPI Top 50 and RPI Top 100, but a closer look reveals most of those wins occurred against teams at the back end of each bucket. They only beat one RPI Top 35 team and suffered five losses to teams with an RPI of 70 or worse.  Last, but not least, to make your questions, comments and angry rants heard, send them to on Twitter. If you're nice, I'll tweet and follow back and may even use some of your submissions for Q&A throughout the week.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Can Gonzaga hang onto the No. 1 seed that looked like a guarantee not that long ago? Ethan Miller/Getty Images

Kerry Miller College Basketball National Analyst

On the eve of Selection Sunday, the 2017 NCAA tournament bubble is more clouded than ever.

Teams like Kansas State and TCU played their way into the conversation with huge wins in the Big 12 tournament. Meanwhile, both Marquette and Providence necessitated more bubble scrutiny after their early losses from the Big East tournament.

Realistically, we're probably looking at six teams battling for the last two spots, but until doing our final scrub of the tournament field on Sunday morning, we're leaving 14 teams in the conversation for the last five bids.

And if teams like Middle Tennessee, Nevada or VCU fail to win their conference tournaments, that bubble will shrink even more.

If you think March Madness doesn't start until next Thursday, you are sorely mistaken.

Here's a look at Bleacher Report's projection of the tournament field as of Saturday at 12:30 p.m. ET, followed by pertinent information about the No. 1 seeds and the bubble:

Play-In Games:

No. 16 in East—New Orleans vs. North Carolina Central

No. 16 in South—North Dakota vs. Mount St. Mary's

No. 12 in South—Kansas State vs. Rhode Island

No. 11 in West—USC vs. Providence

No. 1 Seed Debate:

In descending order, Villanova, North Carolina, Gonzaga and Kansas are our projected No. 1 seeds. And at this point, it's tough to see that changing.

Villanova is a stone-cold lock for the No. 1 overall seed, regardless of what happens in the Big East championship game against Creighton. North Carolina has five RPI Top 25, 11 RPI Top 50 and 17 RPI Top 100 wins. The Tar Heels are locked in, as well. Kansas lost to TCU to make things a little more interesting, but the Jayhawks finished the regular season at No. 1 in both the AP poll and the RPI. They should be alright. And Gonzaga went 32-1 with more than enough quality wins to prove it was no fluke.

The Pac-12 champion will have a strong case for a No. 1 seed. So will the ACC champion and possibly Kentucky if it wins the SEC, but not one of them is likely to leapfrog any of the current No. 1 seeds. We'll re-evaluate after those major-conference tournaments end, though.

The Bubble:

Despite a No. 3 seed in the Big East, the Friars have work to do. Steven Ryan/Getty Images

Fifth-to-Last In: Marquette Golden Eagles (19-12, RPI: 59, KP: 29, SOS: 49)

After Vanderbilt defeated Florida for the third time this season to move comfortably into the field, Marquette slips one spot closer to the bubble. The Golden Eagles have eight RPI Top 50 wins, including one over Villanova, yet their RPI is somehow outside the top 50.

The bigger concern is that they went just 4-5 against teams in the RPI 51-200 range. Also, four of their best wins were season sweeps of Creighton and Xavier after both of those teams lost their starting point guard for the season. Given their middling RPI, that's something that will be discussed in the selection room in these final few hours.

Fourth-to-Last In: USC Trojans (24-9, RPI: 43, KP: 61, SOS: 73)

The Trojans have two great home wins over SMU and UCLA, but that's about it. They also have a bad loss to Arizona State and a not-great defeat to Utah.

They appear to have done enough to get in, but St. Bonaventure was left out last season with a similar resume. The Bonnies were No. 30 in RPI and had three RPI Top 25 wins; two of which came on the road. For some reason, though, it wasn't enough. USC missed a chance to lock up its bid in the Pac-12 quarterfinals against UCLA and will now be sweating until Selection Sunday.

Third-to-Last In: Providence Friars (20-12, RPI: 56, KP: 56, SOS: 46)

At Boston College. At DePaul. Vs. St. John's. At Ohio State. Those are just four of Providence's 12 losses. The Friars did have a great home win over Butler at the start of a six-game winning streak to finish the season, but that's their only victory against the RPI Top 25.

It's easy to point to the six RPI Top 50 wins and the third-place finish in the Big East, but the full body of work leaves something to be desired. Providence also had a nonconference SOS rank of 181, and the selection committee loves to hammer bubble teams for not scheduling aggressively.

Second-to-Last In: Rhode Island Rams (22-9, RPI: 40, KP: 52, SOS: 61)

Friday afternoon was both great and awful for Rhode Island. The great news is the Rams won their game against St. Bonaventure to advance to the A-10 semifinals. The awful news is Dayton lost to Davidson, so they have no hope of picking up a quality win over the Flyers in the semifinals.

Then again, Dayton's loss increases Rhode Island's chances of winning the A-10 tournament and removing itself from the bubble conversation altogether. As it, the Rams have RPI Top 25 wins over Cincinnati and VCU and a couple of awful home losses to La Salle and Fordham.

Last Team In: Kansas State Wildcats (20-12, RPI: 57, KP: 28, SOS: 37)

Falling by one point to West Virginia on a neutral court—thanks to a highly questionable foul call in the final 20 seconds—is anything other than a bad loss for the Wildcats, so we're not going to (immediately) drop them out of the field for that result. However, they entered the game as the last team in, and a loss of any kind is not good when you're that bubbly.

This remains one of the most puzzling resumes in the country. They have four great wins: two away from home against Baylor, one at Oklahoma State and one vs. West Virginia. But everything else—bad losses to Texas Tech and Oklahoma, 8-10 in Big 12, nonconference SOS rank of 228—reeks of a trip to the NIT. And you can almost take it to the bank every year that the committee will leave out one team that seems to have done enough to get in, citing its terrible nonconference schedule as the deciding factor.

Have the Wildcats done enough to dance? Peter G. Aiken/Getty Images

First Team Out: Illinois State Redbirds (26-6, RPI: 32, KP: 51, SOS: 126)

Illinois State went 1-2 against Wichita State in its only games of the season against the RPI Top 50. The Redbirds also went 1-2 against teams in the RPI 51-100 range, beating New Mexico and losing to TCU and San Francisco. In addition to those losses, it slipped up against Tulsa (RPI: 131) and had a brutal season-opening loss to Murray State (RPI: 232). The team will be sitting on the bubble all week, but the balance of good wins and bad losses isn't promising.

Second Team Out: TCU Horned Frogs (18-15, RPI: 69, KP: 39, SOS: 29)

This should be the year a 15-loss team makes the NCAA tournament as an at-large, but it probably won't be this one.

TCU got as big of a win as any team could have asked for in a conference tournament, upsetting No. 1 Kansas in the Big 12 quarterfinals. But that win merely got the Horned Frogs onto the bubble. They still needed a win over Iowa State in the semifinals to have a good shot at a bid. Instead, they lost by 21.

Maybe they'd get in if there were a few more quality wins on their resume, but the Horned Frogs are just 4-12 against the RPI Top 100 with three more losses to worse competition. Great first year for Jamie Dixon, but it likely won't be enough.

Third Team Out: Monmouth Hawks (27-6, RPI: 47, KP: 80, SOS: 183)

Hey, remember these guys? Everyone thought Monmouth was dead after its loss to Siena in the MAAC semifinals, but outside of TCU and Kansas State winning their Big 12 quarterfinals, what has any team that started the week on the wrong side of the bubble done to bypass the Hawks?

If Middle Tennessee, Texas-Arlington, Nevada, Vermont and Princeton win their conference tournaments, there might be an at-large case for Monmouth as the one great minor-conference team that fell short. But if any of those teams fail to get the job done, it would likely be curtains for the Hawks.

Fourth Team Out: Iowa Hawkeyes (18-14, RPI: 81, KP: 70, SOS: 52)

Despite getting obliterated by Indiana in the second round of the Big Ten tournament, Iowa is still in the conversation. Those road wins over Maryland and Wisconsin from a couple of weeks ago still happened, as did the home wins over Iowa State, Purdue and Michigan. That's five RPI Top 50 wins with no losses outside the RPI Top 150.

The Hawkeyes have a pretty bad RPI, but so does Syracuse. And at least a couple of Iowa's best wins came away from home.

Fifth Team Out: Syracuse Orange (18-14, RPI: 85, KP: 50, SOS: 55)

The loss to Miami in the second round of the ACC tournament dropped Syracuse to 2-11 away from home and bumped its RPI to 84. (No team has ever gotten an at-large bid with a worse RPI rank than 72.) The two wins came on a buzzer-beater at Clemson and a frantic overtime comeback at North Carolina State—neither of which is in the projected field.

People will say Syracuse will get in because it got in last year, but last year's team had a huge road win at Duke and big neutral-court wins over Connecticut and Texas A&M. People will also say Syracuse deserves to get in for going 10-8 in ACC play, but if that's the reason, it'll be the first time in NCAA tournament history that conference record mattered. A home win over Monmouth was Syracuse's only nonconference RPI Top 150 win, and half of its ACC wins came against teams unlikely to make the tournament. It's not looking good.

Sixth Team Out: California Golden Bears (21-12, RPI: 54, KP: 58, SOS: 42)

A road win over bubbly USC was California's only RPI Top 50 win of the season. It also has several questionable losses to San Diego State, Stanford, Utah and Colorado. Getting to the Pac-12 semis was a must, but failing to beat Oregon is going to keep the Golden Bears out of the field.

Seventh Team Out: Ole Miss Rebels (20-13, RPI: 75, KP: 77, SOS: 66)

Ole Miss came so close to getting right into the thick of the at-large conversation in the SEC quarterfinals against Arkansas, but the Rebels ultimately lost by a point. Still, they haven't suffered a single loss to a team outside the KenPom Top 70, and they do have a couple of quality wins. The RPI will most likely keep them out, but we've been surprised by teams with minimal quality wins and no bad losses before.

Eighth Team Out: Alabama Crimson Tide (19-13, RPI: 79, KP: 54, SOS: 71)

Don't look now, but if Alabama can upset Kentucky in the SEC semifinals, it still has a chance to get in. The Crimson Tide were swept by Auburn, but they also picked up two wins over South Carolina and a third Top 50 RPI win over Vanderbilt. They're well beyond the fringe at the moment, but a neutral-court win over the Wildcats would change that.

Ninth Team Out: Illinois Fighting Illini (17-14, RPI: 63, KP: 71, SOS: 20)

Illinois was in good shape prior to finishing the season with a loss at Rutgers and a blowout loss to Michigan. The Illini have good numbers against the RPI Top 50 and RPI Top 100, but a closer look reveals most of those wins occurred against teams at the back end of each bucket. They only beat one RPI Top 35 team and suffered five losses to teams with an RPI of 70 or worse.

Last, but not least, to make your questions, comments and angry rants heard, send them to @kerrancejames on Twitter. If you're nice, I'll tweet and follow back and may even use some of your submissions for Q&A throughout the week.

Stats are courtesy of WarrenNolan.com, KenPom.com and Sports-Reference.com and are current through start of play Saturday, March 11. Win-loss records only include games played against D-I opponents and are updated in real time.