WA election: New era for Labor as Mark McGowan elected Premier in landslide



WA election: New era for Labor as Mark McGowan elected Premier in landslide

Updated

WA Premier-elect Mark McGowan has vowed to get to work immediately on implementing his ambitious platform, after Labor was swept into office in a landslide that claimed the scalps of at least four Liberal ministers.

Mr McGowan ended eight-and-a-half years in opposition for Labor, inflicting a powerful defeat on Colin Barnett's Government and the Liberal Party.

Labor needed to win 10 additional seats to form government — but it picked up at least 18 and may take as many as 21, and has secured a sizeable parliamentary majority.

The 16 per cent swing against the Liberals saw at least four ministers lose their seats.

The ABC's projections show ministers John Day, Andrea Mitchell, Paul Miles and Albert Jacob all fell on a disastrous night for the Liberals.

Liberal leadership aspirant Joe Francis and Nationals leader Brendon Grylls are facing nervous waits to finds out if their parliamentary careers are over.

Former Liberal ministers Tony Simpson and Murray Cowper and Legislative Assembly speaker Michael Sutherland were among the other casualties.

The party's night was perhaps encapsulated in a single tweet by Barnett Government minister and Liberal powerbroker Peter Collier at 9:10pm as the result crystallised.

The size of Labor's gains exceeded even the party's most optimistic assessments, with its victories over Mr Cowper in Murray-Wellington and Ms Mitchell in Kingsley considered shock results.

Labor is expected to hold between 38 and 41 seats in the 59-seat Legislative Assembly.

But Labor's control is likely to be much weaker in the Upper House, where One Nation and a handful of other micro parties have a chance of getting elected.

One Nation's primary vote of just 4.7 per cent in the Lower House was far worse than the party had been hoping, but it is still a chance of holding significant influence in the Upper House.

Mr McGowan used his victory speech to reaffirm several of his key election commitments, including the delivery of Labor's multi-billion-dollar Metronet public transport system.

"With success comes responsibility and the obligation to implement our program," Mr McGowan said.

"We will get to work immediately on carrying out our plans.

"You deserve good government and, with my team, I am committed to delivering just that."

Antony Green's analysis on 2013 vs 2017:

In 2013, Julia Gillard was a deeply unpopular prime minister with Kevin Rudd stalking her, the economy in Western Australia was booming — there's no wonder the Coalition and the Liberal Party had a really big win at the last election.



Four years later, it's a completely different position.



It's a Coalition Government in Canberra, [WA's economy] is now performing worse than other states — it's an eight-and-a-half-year-old Government — it's a bit hard to blame that on others — and it's got a budget deficit.



All those things have come back to hit the Coalition this election, and Labor has had an enormous victory.

Upper House fractures

Labor set itself an ambitious series of campaign goals, including completing the first stage of Metronet within six years while bringing the budget back to surplus by 2019-20.

Mr McGowan also used his speech to pay tribute to the union movement for its assistance during the campaign.

The new government is likely to have to deal with a fractured Upper House, with One Nation currently projected by the ABC to pick up two seats, while Fluoride Free WA, the Liberal Democrats and Shooters, Fishers and Farmers are all forecast to win one spot each.

The Liberal post-mortem examination has already commenced following the party's disastrous result, but the outgoing Premier said he would not be drawn into determining where it all went wrong.

"There will be all sorts of analysis as to why and what happened but I will not be part of that, I will let others do that," Mr Barnett said.

He said his party ran a "great campaign", saying time was the main factor in the result.

Attention will quickly turn to who will lead the Liberals in opposition, with Mr Francis declaring he wants the job but facing an uncertain parliamentary future.

Liza Harvey and Dean Nalder are seen as the other strongest contenders.

Topics: elections, political-parties, wa

First posted