Intruder jumped White House fence, arrested near residence
Intruder jumped White House fence, arrested near residence
EXECUTIVE Intruder jumped White House fence, arrested near residence By    A person climbed a White House fence Friday night and gained access to the complex’s south grounds before being arrested, the Secret Service said Saturday, shortly after noon. The incident occurred at about 11:38 p.m. Friday while President Trump was at the White House, officials told Fox News. The Secret Service also said the unidentified person scaled an outer-perimeter fence on the White House complex’s southeast side, near the Treasury Building, and was arrested without further incident by an officer in the agency’s Uniformed Division. The intruder was carrying a backpack and purportedly got close to the White House’s south portico residence entrance, near the Washington Monument. No hazardous material was found inside the backpack, and a subsequent search of the complex grounds resulted in “nothing of concern to security operations,” the Secret Service said. The agency also said the person has no “previous history” with the agency. Trump told reporters Saturday afternoon that he appreciates the Secret Service efforts and that the accused is disturbed. The incident was reported first by CNN. Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly was briefed on the incident. The agency didn't provide an update on the individual's status. Standard practice is to hand intruders over to the local police department.

A person climbed a White House fence Friday night and gained access to the complex’s south grounds before being arrested, the Secret Service said Saturday, shortly after noon.

The incident occurred at about 11:38 p.m. Friday while President Trump was at the White House, officials told Fox News.

The Secret Service also said the unidentified person scaled an outer-perimeter fence on the White House complex’s southeast side, near the Treasury Building, and was arrested without further incident by an officer in the agency’s Uniformed Division.

The intruder was carrying a backpack and purportedly got close to the White House’s south portico residence entrance, near the Washington Monument.

No hazardous material was found inside the backpack, and a subsequent search of the complex grounds resulted in “nothing of concern to security operations,” the Secret Service said.

The agency also said the person has no “previous history” with the agency.

Trump told reporters Saturday afternoon that he appreciates the Secret Service efforts and that the accused is disturbed.

The incident was reported first by CNN.

Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly was briefed on the incident.

The agency didn't provide an update on the individual's status. Standard practice is to hand intruders over to the local police department.

Fox News' Kristin Fisher and Serafin Gomez and the Associated Press contributed to this report.