Lamarcus Aldridge out Indefinitely with Heart Arrhythmia
Lamarcus Aldridge out Indefinitely with Heart Arrhythmia
San Antonio Spurs star LaMarcus Aldridge is out indefinitely while undergoing further evaluation for LaMarcus Aldridge will be out for an indefinite period due to an occurrence of a minor heart arrhythmia. https://t.co/s0D2Enc6RO Losing Aldridge would be a significant blow for the Spurs as they attempt to keep pace with the Golden State Warriors in a top-heavy Western Conference. ESPN's Michael C. Wright had some further information on Aldridge's situation: Not a ton of details on LaMarcus. But a source said there was an "occurrence or episode" and that his "health and safety" are No. 1 concern. Aldridge is a proven playmaker who has earned a spot in five All-Star Games and on four All-NBA Teams. In his first season with the Spurs after nine campaigns with the Portland Trail Blazers , he averaged 18.0 points and 8.5 rebounds per contest. He has followed that up with 17.3 points, 7.4 rebounds and 1.1 blocks so far in 2016-17. His scoring average last year, which was his lowest since the 2009-10 season, snapped a streak of five campaigns in a row with more than 21 points per contest. Part of that was a function of how deep the Spurs were, but they relied on him more in the playoffs. He posted 21.9 points per game in the postseason and helped lead San Antonio to the second round, where it lost to the Oklahoma City Thunder . Aldridge is valuable on the glass and with his mid-range shot, which opens up the offense and allows guards to run pick-and-pops, but San Antonio does have other pieces to shoulder the load until he returns. The Spurs signed Pau Gasol in the offseason. Gasol is a future Hall of Fame candidate who can do many of the same things as Aldridge with a solid mid-range shot and the ability to crash the boards. San Antonio also added veteran David Lee , who has eight seasons with double-digit scoring figures on his resume. The Spurs can even go with a small-ball look if needed, with Kawhi Leonard playing a hybrid-forward role. San Antonio has some options to fill in for Aldridge, but it is difficult to envision the Spurs beating the Warriors in a potential postseason showdown without their All-Star big man. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Eric Gay/Associated Press

Scott Polacek Featured Columnist IV

San Antonio Spurs star LaMarcus Aldridge is out indefinitely while undergoing further evaluation for a minor heart arrhythmia.



The Spurs posted the official announcement Saturday on social media:

Losing Aldridge would be a significant blow for the Spurs as they attempt to keep pace with the Golden State Warriors in a top-heavy Western Conference.

ESPN's Michael C. Wright had some further information on Aldridge's situation:

Aldridge is a proven playmaker who has earned a spot in five All-Star Games and on four All-NBA Teams. In his first season with the Spurs after nine campaigns with the Portland Trail Blazers, he averaged 18.0 points and 8.5 rebounds per contest. He has followed that up with 17.3 points, 7.4 rebounds and 1.1 blocks so far in 2016-17.

His scoring average last year, which was his lowest since the 2009-10 season, snapped a streak of five campaigns in a row with more than 21 points per contest. Part of that was a function of how deep the Spurs were, but they relied on him more in the playoffs. He posted 21.9 points per game in the postseason and helped lead San Antonio to the second round, where it lost to the Oklahoma City Thunder.

Aldridge is valuable on the glass and with his mid-range shot, which opens up the offense and allows guards to run pick-and-pops, but San Antonio does have other pieces to shoulder the load until he returns.

The Spurs signed Pau Gasol in the offseason. Gasol is a future Hall of Fame candidate who can do many of the same things as Aldridge with a solid mid-range shot and the ability to crash the boards. San Antonio also added veteran David Lee, who has eight seasons with double-digit scoring figures on his resume.

The Spurs can even go with a small-ball look if needed, with Kawhi Leonard playing a hybrid-forward role.

San Antonio has some options to fill in for Aldridge, but it is difficult to envision the Spurs beating the Warriors in a potential postseason showdown without their All-Star big man.