Floyd Mayweather Says He's Coming Out of Retirement 'Just to Fight Conor McGregor'
Floyd Mayweather Says He's Coming Out of Retirement 'Just to Fight Conor McGregor'
The ongoing saga between Floyd Mayweather and Conor McGregor has just taken a very intriguing turn. During a recent stop on the UK leg of his tour, Mayweather announced that he's coming out of retirement for the sole purpose of getting in the ring with McGregor. Mayweather said . Conor Conor After making the announcement, Mayweather once again told McGregor to settle things with the UFC, and even gave Conor an exact month when they should meet in the ring. As big of an attraction as McGregor is in the UFC, it's the UFC. When he enters the world of boxing, there is no one bigger than Mayweather. If Conor really wants to get this fight done, he needs to come to terms with the fact that he will be the "B side" in this bout. With Floyd out of retirement and giving The Notorious a date when the fight would take place, it's all up to McGregor. As Money Mayweather said, "N sportstips@complex.com

The ongoing saga between Floyd Mayweather and Conor McGregor has just taken a very intriguing turn. During a recent stop on the UK leg of his Undefeated tour, Mayweather announced that he's coming out of retirement for the sole purpose of getting in the ring with McGregor.

"When I faced Arturo Gatti, I went to his turf," Mayweather said. "He was the A side. I was the B side. I beat him, I didn’t cry, I didn’t complain. When I faced Oscar De La Hoya, he was the A side. I was the B side. I didn’t cry, I didn’t complain, I beat him and I became the A side. For Conor McGregor, I’m coming out of retirement, just to fight Conor McGregor."

After making the announcement, Mayweather once again told McGregor to settle things with the UFC, and even gave Conor an exact month when they should meet in the ring. "I don’t want to hear no more excuses about the money, about the UFC. Sign the paper with the UFC so you can fight me in June," he said. "Simple and plain. Let’s fight in June. You’re the B side. I’m the A side. We’re not here to cry about money. I’m tired of all this crying about money and talking about you want to fight. You blowing smoke up everybody’s ass. If you want to fight, sign the paperwork, let’s do it."

As big of an attraction as McGregor is in the UFC, it's the UFC. When he enters the world of boxing, there is no one bigger than Mayweather. If Conor really wants to get this fight done, he needs to come to terms with the fact that he will be the "B side" in this bout. With Floyd out of retirement and giving The Notorious a date when the fight would take place, it's all up to McGregor. As Money Mayweather said, "No more excuses."

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.