A Lake In Australia Turns Pink, Looks Good In Pictures But Isn't Advisable For Swimming
A Lake In Australia Turns Pink, Looks Good In Pictures But Isn't Advisable For Swimming
A Lake In Australia Turns Pink, Looks Good In Pictures But Isn't Advisable For Swimming Recently a river in Spain turned fluorescent green, sparking fears of poisoning among people. Following the incident, a lake in Australia has gone pink. However, there is no reason to panic as the lake would return to its normal colour when the weather cools down and rains return for Australia's winter in June. What turns a lake pink? Since the lake is salty, it would turn pink when there is an apt combination of salinity and salt organisms. Some lakes change colour when there are brine shrimp in it. It is observed that when brine shrimp eats algae and its carotenoids, it turns pink. In the case of Westgate Park's salt lake, algae grown in the salt crust at the bottom of the lake produced the red pigment (beta carotene) turning the lake into pink. Is it safe to take a dive into the lake? Well, no. As much as lovely the lake looks, the view should be enjoyed from the distance. Because if the water goes inside your eyes, it will give a burning sensation and it would also crystallize your eyelids. The Parks Victoria Facebook page has warned the residents to not dive into the lake. The local residents and photographers are having great fun as they pose for pictures at the lake. Flying across the PINK Lake with my girls' strong hand. pic.twitter.com/4wPyZZucUU Wow! This lake is actually pink. It's like a fairytale! This is a natural phenomenon in response to very high salt levels, high temperatures, sunlight and lack of rainfall. Algae growing in the salt crust at the bottom of the lake produces the red pigment (beta carotene) as part of its photosynthesis process and in response to the extremely high salt levels. Cool, right? Have you seen a pink lake before? You can watch the behind the scenes on Insta stories :) @visitmelbourne A post shared by Ellen Grondijs | Australia (@ellenprojects) on Mar 9, 2017 at 12:30pm PST

Recently a river in Spain turned fluorescent green, sparking fears of poisoning among people. Following the incident, a lake in Australia has gone pink. However, there is no reason to panic as the lake would return to its normal colour when the weather cools down and rains return for Australia's winter in June.

AFP

What turns a lake pink?

Since the lake is salty, it would turn pink when there is an apt combination of salinity and salt organisms. Some lakes change colour when there are brine shrimp in it. It is observed that when brine shrimp eats algae and its carotenoids, it turns pink.

In the case of Westgate Park's salt lake, algae grown in the salt crust at the bottom of the lake produced the red pigment (beta carotene) turning the lake into pink.

Is it safe to take a dive into the lake?

Well, no. As much as lovely the lake looks, the view should be enjoyed from the distance. Because if the water goes inside your eyes, it will give a burning sensation and it would also crystallize your eyelids. The Parks Victoria Facebook page has warned the residents to not dive into the lake.

The local residents and photographers are having great fun as they pose for pictures at the lake.

Flying across the PINK Lake with my girls' strong hand. pic.twitter.com/4wPyZZucUU — sombor_borjigin (@BorjiginSumber) March 10, 2017

Don't Miss 5.6 K SHARES 60.9 K SHARES 43 K SHARES 55.7 K SHARES