WA election: Pauline Hanson blames 'sour milk' Barnett for One Nation's poor showing



WA election: Pauline Hanson blames 'sour milk' Barnett for One Nation's poor showing

Updated

One Nation leader Pauline Hanson is continuing to blame the controversial preference deal struck with the Liberal Party for her party's poor result in yesterday's WA election.

Key points: One Nation's vote was lower than expected, at less than 5 per cent

Hanson says deal with Barnett's Libs dragged her party down

But one candidate says the leader's own comments did not help



One Nation received less than 5 per cent of the primary vote in Saturday's election, after polls had suggested the party's vote could be as high as 9 per cent.

The party missed out entirely on a seat in the lower house, and looks likely to only secure one in the upper house.

Ms Hanson said the party had damaged itself by associating with the state's outgoing premier Colin Barnett.

"All I heard all day and leading up to this election [was] 'Why are you sending your preferences to the Liberal Party?" she said.

"I don't think it was the Liberal Party, I think it was Colin Barnett. The people here did not want Colin Barnett — he should have stepped aside.

"It's like when you've got milk in your fridge and it's starting to go sour, you throw it out, and that's what they should have done with Colin Barnett."

She also said she was proud of her party's efforts in spite of the result.

"For a 50-day campaign, we have done extremely well here," she said.

"I've got to thank all the supporters, we've had a fantastic effort.

"We didn't the resources here in this state as what we have in the eastern states — I am so pleased with the vote that we have got."

Vaccine controversy dogged campaign's final week

Ms Hanson caused her own fair share of controversy during the campaign.

She praised Russian president Vladimir Putin and revived a persistent but entirely discredited conspiracy theory about children's vaccinations.

Party insiders, like Fremantle lower house candidate Warren Duffy, said this did not help among voters.

"Too many un-thought comments, comments misunderstood from Pauline commenting on federal matters rather than on West Australian matters," Mr Duffy said.

Controversy continued after polling closed, as ABC journalists were barred from One Nation's official after party and Ms Hanson refused to be interviewed by the ABC's election panel.

She told Sky News it would not be the last time she banned media from an event.

"This is not the first that I've denied media to a function, I did it in 1998. So it's not the first and I'm sure it won't be the last.

"All I expect from anyone in the media is to just give myself and the party a fair go."

Topics: elections, one-nation, wa

First posted