Ranking College Football's Top Big-Play Threats in 2017
Ranking College Football's Top Big-Play Threats in 2017
Ranking College Football's Top Big-Play Threats in 2017 No college football player is more dangerous than the athlete who can turn a routine carry or reception into an explosive gain or a long touchdown. Programs covet the game-breaking skill, but only a select group of teams already have an established player like that. Although most of them are wide receivers, a few running backs have also made themselves a premier big-play threat. Only returning players were considered for this list. Incoming freshmen could make a similar impact in 2017, but they don't yet have defined roles in college. Quarterbacks were not included, though Louisville's Lamar Jackson, Mississippi State's Nick Fitzgerald and South Florida's Quinton Flowers deserve a mention for their running ability. 10. Ty Johnson, RB, Maryland Maryland desperately needs a quarterback who can both stay healthy and produce. In the meantime, Ty Johnson will buoy the offense thanks to his top-notch elusiveness. "He's consistently been a big-play guy for us," head coach D.J. Durkin said, per Don Markus of the . "He does have that ability; he's a young guy and still learning and getting better. We're certainly excited about him and a lot of guys at that position, moving forward." 9. Michael Gallup, WR, Colorado State During his first five games with Colorado State, Michael Gallup tallied a decent yet unspectacular 18 catches for 248 yards and two touchdowns. After that, though, opposing secondaries simply could not stop the JUCO transfer. Gallup never registered fewer than 91 yards for the remainder of the season, eclipsing the 100-yard mark six times and 200-yard barrier once. He scored once in all eight games, including back-to-back three-touchdown days to end the season. Just one returning wideout posted more 20-plus-yard receptions than 23 for Gallup, who added three 60-plus-yard plays . 8. Saquon Barkley, RB, Penn State As Penn State's offensive line improves, so will Saquon Barkley. Well, that's a scary thought. Over the past two seasons, the versatile runner has amassed 3,135 yards from scrimmage and 30 touchdowns. Last year, he averaged an excellent 14.4 yards on 28 receptions. Among returning players, Barkley's 25 plays of 20-plus yards rank second . Plus, his 12 gains of 30-plus leads all running backs. It's no wonder Bruce Feldman of Fox Sports reported from the NFL Scouting Combine that Barkley is expected to be a top-five pick in 2018. 7. Cedrick Wilson, WR, Boise State Boise State must replace massive production from both Jeremy McNichols and Thomas Sperbeck. Fortunately for the Broncos, they return quarterback Brett Rypien and wide receiver Cedrick Wilson. A JUCO transfer, Wilson only needed one game to make an impression last season, totaling seven catches for 113 yards and a touchdown in his debut. "He's a playmaker," Rypien said after that game, according to Jay Tust of KTVB. The duo ended up connecting 56 times for an outstanding 20.2-yard average, which was eighth-best nationally . Wilson also ranked fifth with 15 receptions of at least 30 yards. 6. Courtland Sutton, SMU Courtland Sutton isn't a household name, but he's quietly been one of the most dangerous red-zone presences since 2015. Combine that with a massive share of SMU's targets, and he's always a threat to hurt a defense. For two straight years, he's notched 15-plus catches of 20 yards as well as 10 receptions of 30-plus in both seasons. The 6'4" Sutton is a big target, and he has equally enormous expectations for 2017. "I'm committed to being the best receiver in college football next year," he said, per Patrick Engel of the . "That's something I know I can achieve, but it's not going to be something I'm going to achieve by myself." 5. Richie James, WR, Middle Tennessee Richie James took a redshirt season in 2014, exploded in 2015 and only improved in 2016. It's not just OK; we be excited about the Middle Tennessee standout in 2017. No returning player had more catches of 10- , 20- , 30- or 40-plus yards last season. James has collected 213 passes for 2,971 yards and 20 touchdowns through just two years. With such a dominant target share, James is always capable of ripping off a big play. He and southpaw quarterback Brent Stockstill have created one of college football's most dangerous duos. 4. Cody Thompson, WR, Toledo Western Michigan won't repeat its sensational season. Expect Toledo to finally secure a place atop the Mid-American Conference West because of an experienced and dynamic offense. In 2016, Logan Woodside threw for 45 touchdowns compared to just nine interceptions, hitting Cody Thompson 64 times for 1,269 yards and 11 scores. The junior's 19.8-yard average ranked ninth nationally, one spot behind Wilson. Thompson, who has 10 showings of 100-plus yards in his career, is tied for first among returning receivers with 10 receptions of 40 or more yards last season. 3. Derrius Guice, RB, LSU Leonard Fournette's physicality is nearly impossible to match, and Derrius Guice certainly won't be asked to do that. But last season, he eliminated any concerns about replacing Fournette, who battled an ankle injury throughout the campaign. Guice, despite taking just 12 carries over a scattered four-game sample while Fournette was healthy, finished 20th in the country with 1,387 yards and ninth at 7.6 per carry. He led the SEC in average yards both as a freshman and sophomore. Barkley is the only returning runner with more 20-plus-yard gains than Guice's 19. Continuing from that point, the LSU star ranked in the top 10 overall in each yardage category. 2. Anthony Miller, WR, Memphis "I think he has as high of a ceiling as most guys that I've coached," Memphis head coach Mike Norvell said of Anthony Miller before the 2016 season, per Tom Schad of the . "I really have high expectations for him." Consider those expectations met and surpassed. He shattered program records with 95 receptions for 1,434 yards and 14 touchdowns. Since Riley Ferguson will be back at quarterback for the Tigers, Miller's numbers may even rise. Among returning wideouts, only Southern Miss' Allenzae Staggers . 1. James Washington, WR, Oklahoma State James Washington is a premier example of a big-yardage receiver who also handles a large volume. Last year, 47 qualifying receivers averaged 17 yards per catch, yet only 12 of them reeled in four receptions per game. And it was the second straight season Washington made that cut. After ranking 10th nationally with a 20.5-yard average in 2015, the Oklahoma State star was 11th at 19.4 yards in 2016. During those campaigns, he accumulated combined totals of 124 catches, 2,467 yards and 20 touchdowns. Washington's four receptions of 70-plus yards led the country two years ago, and he paced the FBS with three of 80-plus last season. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

1 of 11

Brett Deering/Getty Images

No college football player is more dangerous than the athlete who can turn a routine carry or reception into an explosive gain or a long touchdown.

Programs covet the game-breaking skill, but only a select group of teams already have an established player like that. Although most of them are wide receivers, a few running backs have also made themselves a premier big-play threat.

Only returning players were considered for this list. Incoming freshmen could make a similar impact in 2017, but they don't yet have defined roles in college.

Quarterbacks were not included, though Louisville's Lamar Jackson, Mississippi State's Nick Fitzgerald and South Florida's Quinton Flowers deserve a mention for their running ability.