Missing woman, 20, found dead in car pulled from Missouri River, report says
Missing woman, 20, found dead in car pulled from Missouri River, report says
Missouri Missing woman, 20, found dead in car pulled from Missouri River, report says A friend said Toni Anderson texted about getting pulled over just before she disappeared.  (Fox 4KC) The desperate search for a missing 20-year-old woman ended Friday with the discovery of her body in a car that was pulled from the Missouri River. Toni Anderson disappeared Jan. 15 on her way to a gas station from a Kansas City entertainment bar where she worked as a server. A volunteer rescue team using sonar found her 2012 Ford Focus in several feet of water near a town outside the city, the Kansas City Star reports . The paper reported that the woman’s sobbing mother confirmed that the car had been found. “We just got the news — there’s a body in her car,” Liz Anderson said. “There is somebody inside.” TONI ANDERSON'S CAR JUST PULLED FROM RIVER: pic.twitter.com/zcfE0xUkzR The medical examiner will confirm the identity and determine a cause of death. Cops don’t suspect foul play, according to the paper. “I don’t know how she got there,” Anderson sais. “It doesn’t make sense, one bit.” The sonar search team also stumbled on a second vehicle during a search of the river. Cops said it was an SUV not connected to any investigation. Fox 4KC reported Friday that Anderson’s family asked the sonar team to search the river. The young woman disappeared after she texted her boyfriend at 4:42 a.m. The text said “I just got pulled over again,” according to one of her friends. Police said a North Kansas City officer stopped Anderson for an illegal lane change. He issued her a warning and that watched her head to the gas station. “After that Quik Trip, it’s almost like she vanished,” police spokesman Darin Snapp told Fox 4KC in January.

The desperate search for a missing 20-year-old woman ended Friday with the discovery of her body in a car that was pulled from the Missouri River.

Toni Anderson disappeared Jan. 15 on her way to a gas station from a Kansas City entertainment bar where she worked as a server. A volunteer rescue team using sonar found her 2012 Ford Focus in several feet of water near a town outside the city, the Kansas City Star reports. The paper reported that the woman’s sobbing mother confirmed that the car had been found.

“We just got the news — there’s a body in her car,” Liz Anderson said. “There is somebody inside.”

TONI ANDERSON'S CAR JUST PULLED FROM RIVER: pic.twitter.com/zcfE0xUkzR — Megan Brilley (@meganbrilley) March 11, 2017

MISSOURI WOMAN, 20, VANISHES AFTER TRAFFIC STOP

The medical examiner will confirm the identity and determine a cause of death. Cops don’t suspect foul play, according to the paper.

“I don’t know how she got there,” Anderson sais. “It doesn’t make sense, one bit.”

The sonar search team also stumbled on a second vehicle during a search of the river. Cops said it was an SUV not connected to any investigation.

Fox 4KC reported Friday that Anderson’s family asked the sonar team to search the river.

The young woman disappeared after she texted her boyfriend at 4:42 a.m. The text said “I just got pulled over again,” according to one of her friends.

Police said a North Kansas City officer stopped Anderson for an illegal lane change. He issued her a warning and that watched her head to the gas station.

“After that Quik Trip, it’s almost like she vanished,” police spokesman Darin Snapp told Fox 4KC in January.