Adrian Peterson Rumors: Free-Agent RB Reportedly Will Meet with Seattle Seahawks
Adrian Peterson Rumors: Free-Agent RB Reportedly Will Meet with Seattle Seahawks
The Seattle Seahawks and free-agent running back Adrian Peterson are scheduled to meet Sunday. Jason La Canfora of CBSSports.com and Josina Anderson of ESPN reported the news. Seattle will mark Peterson's first visit in free agency. The seven-time Pro Bowler spent his first 10 NFL seasons with the Minnesota Vikings but hit the open market when the team declined his 2017 option. "There's a couple teams out there that I've thought about. ... New York was one of them that popped up, Tampa Bay, lot of different teams. Houston would be a good spot," Peterson said. "I'll stop right there. ... I'm just throwing random names out there." Ben Goessling reported Peterson is in "no rush" to sign and wants to explore his options. Peterson's father, Nelson, told Chris Tomasson of the that Seattle and Oakland were his son's two likeliest destinations. All this likely means that Peterson, for the first time in his career, will be part of a timeshare. After years of being a three-down back in Minnesota, the reality of age and injury have seemingly put him in position to accept a lesser role. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Andy Clayton-King/Associated Press

The Seattle Seahawks and free-agent running back Adrian Peterson are scheduled to meet Sunday.

Jason La Canfora of CBSSports.com and Josina Anderson of ESPN reported the news.

Seattle will mark Peterson's first visit in free agency. The seven-time Pro Bowler spent his first 10 NFL seasons with the Minnesota Vikings but hit the open market when the team declined his 2017 option.

Jamaal Charles and Latavius Murray are also slated to meet with the Seahawks this week, per La Canfora. Their running back spot could use some competition after an injury-plagued 2016 saw no Seattle running back reach 500 yards on the ground. Thomas Rawls and C.J. Prosise provide a talented young tandem, but they combined to play 15 games last season.

Peterson, 31, is coming off the worst professional season of his career. He rushed for just 72 yards on 37 carries, missing 13 games due to a Week 2 knee injury. The Vikings brought him back briefly for a late-season matchup with the Indianapolis Colts, but he lasted just six carries before being shut down.

Seattle was not on Peterson's list of teams he discussed on ESPN's First Take in January.

"There's a couple teams out there that I've thought about. ... New York was one of them that popped up, Tampa Bay, lot of different teams. Houston would be a good spot," Peterson said. "I'll stop right there. ... I'm just throwing random names out there."

ESPN's Ben Goessling reported Peterson is in "no rush" to sign and wants to explore his options. Peterson's father, Nelson, told Chris Tomasson of the Pioneer Press that Seattle and Oakland were his son's two likeliest destinations.

All this likely means that Peterson, for the first time in his career, will be part of a timeshare. After years of being a three-down back in Minnesota, the reality of age and injury have seemingly put him in position to accept a lesser role.