Baby Monkey Weeps Copiously By His Mother Who Died After Being Run Over By A Speeding Vehicle
Baby Monkey Weeps Continuesly By His Mother Who Died As A Speeding Vehicle Ran Over Her
Baby Monkey Weeps Copiously By His Mother Who Died After Being Run Over By A Speeding Vehicle Well, if you think this is not an important news because it’s only a monkey, then you’re wrong. Because, a baby monkey showed the bystanders what it feels like to lose your mother to an accident. The incident took place at Elanthur on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka National highway on Friday, where a monkey was knocked down by a vehicle. Seeing this, the baby monkey ran towards the body. Just like a human would do in the situation, the monkey tried to wake his mother and then hugged her. He kept his ears on her chest to check her heartbeats. When he realised she is no more, it start to weep, which made the bystanders weep too. Police reached the location and tried to separate the monkey from his mother. When villagers carried the carcass to dispose, the monkey followed the villagers till the end. Apart from humans, the animals too know the pain of losing their mothers. It’s truly heartbreaking!

Well, if you think this is not an important news because it’s only a monkey, then you’re wrong. Because, a baby monkey showed the bystanders what it feels like to lose your mother to an accident.

TOI

The incident took place at Elanthur on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka National highway on Friday, where a monkey was knocked down by a vehicle. Seeing this, the baby monkey ran towards the body. Just like a human would do in the situation, the monkey tried to wake his mother and then hugged her.

He kept his ears on her chest to check her heartbeats. When he realised she is no more, it start to weep, which made the bystanders weep too. Police reached the location and tried to separate the monkey from his mother.

TOI

When villagers carried the carcass to dispose, the monkey followed the villagers till the end. Apart from humans, the animals too know the pain of losing their mothers. It’s truly heartbreaking!

Don't Miss 865 SHARES 2.5 K SHARES 45.8 K SHARES 5.8 K SHARES 4.8 K SHARES