House panel wants any evidence Trump's phones were tapped
House panel wants any evidence Trump's phones were tapped
Shares                The House intelligence committee asked the executive branch to provide by Monday any evidence to support President Donald Trump's claim that his phones were tapped at Trump Tower during the election, a senior congressional aide said Saturday. The request was made in a letter sent by committee chairman, Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., and the panel's ranking Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., according to the aide, who wasn't authorized to discuss the request by name and requested anonymity. In a tweet last weekend, Trump accused his predecessor, Barack Obama, of ordering the tap. Obama's director of national intelligence, James Clapper, has said that nothing matching Trump's claims had taken place, but that has not quelled speculation that Trump's communications were monitored by the Obama administration. Trump has not provided evidence to support his claim and has asked Congress to investigate. Early this week, Schiff said the committee would answer the president's call to investigate the claim. He also said that he would ask FBI Director James Comey directly when he appears later this month before the full committee, which is investigating Russian activities during the election. "We should be able to determine in fairly short order whether this allegation is true or false," Schiff told reporters Tuesday evening at the Capitol. Nunes has said that so far he has not seen any evidence to back up Trump's claim and has suggested the news media were taking the president's weekend tweets too literally. "The president is a neophyte to politics — he's been doing this a little over a year," Nunes told reporters earlier this week. Other lawmakers have asked for similar evidence. Declaring that Congress "must get to the bottom" of Trump's claim, Sens. Lindsey Graham , R-S.C., and Sheldon Whitehouse , D-R.I., asked Comey and Acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente to produce the paper trail created when the Justice Department's criminal division secures warrants for wiretaps. Shares                  House panel wants any evidence Trump's phones were tapped   Democrats, some Republicans, condemn Preet Bharara being 'fired'   Baldwin returns to 'SNL' as Trump, Johansson spoofs Ivanka   Prominent US Attorney Preet Bharara says he was 'fired' after not resigning   Intruder nearly reached White House entrance, complaint says   Pence takes White House health care pitch on the road   Ivanka Trump bakes Purim pastries with her kids in new photo   Obamas meet Bono for lunch in NYC   President Trump to nominate Scott Gottlieb to lead FDA   Marine commandant urges women in photo scandal to step forward   Flynn's lawyer told Trump team about lobbying during transition   ANALYSIS: How Trump is remaking the presidency 50 days in   'No question' some government employees working against Trump, Spicer says   Gorsuch has ruled for police, and suspects, in crime cases   3-year-old girl dies after fire blamed on recharging hoverboard   Muhammad Ali's son says he was detained again at airport   Female jogger uses self-defense tactics to stop assault   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Interval training may have anti-aging benefits, study finds

The House intelligence committee asked the executive branch to provide by Monday any evidence to support President Donald Trump's claim that his phones were tapped at Trump Tower during the election, a senior congressional aide said Saturday.

The request was made in a letter sent by committee chairman, Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., and the panel's ranking Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., according to the aide, who wasn't authorized to discuss the request by name and requested anonymity.

In a tweet last weekend, Trump accused his predecessor, Barack Obama, of ordering the tap. Obama's director of national intelligence, James Clapper, has said that nothing matching Trump's claims had taken place, but that has not quelled speculation that Trump's communications were monitored by the Obama administration. Trump has not provided evidence to support his claim and has asked Congress to investigate.

Early this week, Schiff said the committee would answer the president's call to investigate the claim. He also said that he would ask FBI Director James Comey directly when he appears later this month before the full committee, which is investigating Russian activities during the election.

"We should be able to determine in fairly short order whether this allegation is true or false," Schiff told reporters Tuesday evening at the Capitol.

Nunes has said that so far he has not seen any evidence to back up Trump's claim and has suggested the news media were taking the president's weekend tweets too literally.

"The president is a neophyte to politics — he's been doing this a little over a year," Nunes told reporters earlier this week.

Other lawmakers have asked for similar evidence.

Declaring that Congress "must get to the bottom" of Trump's claim, Sens. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I., asked Comey and Acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente to produce the paper trail created when the Justice Department's criminal division secures warrants for wiretaps.