Deep Sleep: Inside The World's Most Amazing Underground Hotels
Deep Sleep: Inside The World's Most Amazing Underground Hotels
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jim Dobson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Le Grotte della Civita Hotel in Italy (photo courtesy of Sextantio) My first experience sleeping in an underground hotel was in Southern Italy, in the small town of Matera. It was one of the most unusual overnights within the haunted atmosphere of the Sassi District, filled with catacombs of dwellings lining the ravine. I slept where medieval peasants once lived, offering up one of the most memorable evenings, and in one of the oldest cities in the world. My fascination with underground bunkers and dwellings continues with this guide to the world’s best underground hotels. Ranging from ultra-budget to pure luxury, these are the best subterranean options available for the adventurous traveler. Inside The World's Most Outrageous Underground Hotels Grand Canyon Cavern Suite The Grand Canyon Caverns Suite is famously billed as "the world's largest, deepest, darkest motel room," the underground hotel room is almost 220 feet below ground, and surrounded by history. During the Cuban Missile Crisis, President John F. Kennedy turned the 65-million-year old caves into a bomb shelter to accommodate 2,000 people. The Cavern Suite is part of a 48-room no-frills motel. Located within a limestone cave on a platform, it includes beds, bathroom and living quarters. The cave is so deep that it is the largest dry cavern in the United States, and is virtually moisture free. To experience this thrill be ready to shell out $850 a night for two people. Beckham Creek Cave Suite The Beckham Creek Cave Lodge provides an exclusive 6,000 sq. ft. living space within the Cliffside cave. Located in the Ozark Mountains and close to the Buffalo National River, each of the lodge bedrooms have their own showers built into the rock, while the lodge provides all modern amenities. This cave lodge sleeps 10 and goes for a pricey $1,600/ night. Kokopellis Cave Suite The Kokopellis Cave house is built into the towering cliffs of Tertiary Ojo Alamo sandstone and overlooks the La Plata river valley 300 feet below. The cave is 70 feet below the surface, with an entrance located in the cliff face reached by walking down a path cut into the sandstone. The man-made cave was originally supposed to be an office for the geologist owner, but they ultimately decided to turn it into a bed and breakfast. The 1,700-square foot cave includes a master bedroom, living area, dining area, full kitchen and bathroom with rock walls enclosed around a waterfall shower and Jacuzzi tub. Most rooms are situated around a huge sandstone pillar that separates the Cave into different rooms. Nightly rates are $310 for two. Cumberland Caverns camping area Discovered in 1810, the Cumberland Caverns spreads over 30 miles underground. The enormous living space provides room for up to 250 people to camp if they bring their own equipment. With a chandelier lighting the way, there are bathrooms, a snack bar and other amenities to add to the glamping. Overnighting in the cave starts at $40 per person and includes breakfast. White Cliffs Underground Motel This well-known motel opened in 1989 and has expanded to provide accommodation for up to 100 people. The White Cliffs Underground Motel is man-made and covers an entire area the size of a football field. The motel is dug into ‘Poor Mans Hill’ (Smith Hill), which earned its name due to the lack of opal discovered in the early 1900’s. During the 1980′s, the area was renovated to become a family home, and due to popularity in 1989 it became a motel. The White Cliffs Underground Motel is huge with 30 underground rooms called “dugouts” and can accommodate up to 5 people. Doubles go for $149 including breakfast. Desert Cave Hotel Coober Pedy is located half way between Adelaide and Alice Springs. Since 1915 Coober Pedy has attracted miners to discover opal which was found in the Outback, and many people lived in underground homes. Construction on the hotel began in 1984 and the Desert Cave Hotel was officially opened in 1988. The 19 underground rooms are large with high ceilings. The Cave Hotel also has underground shops, a cafe, an underground bar and gaming room. Double rates are $260 per night. Songjiang InterContinental Hotel Opening in 2018, the spectacular Songjiang Intercontinental Hotel is currently under construction at the foot of Tianmenshan Mountain in the Songjiang District of Shanghai, East China. The town of Songjiang is 22 miles from Shanghai, and the unique design is intended to reflect the natural landscape of the quarry surrounded by rocky cliffs, waterfalls and hills. The five-star, 383-bedroom hotel built into the side of the former water filled quarry will be operated by Intercontinental as a luxury spa resort. The futuristic hotel features underground public areas, guest rooms and conference facilities for up to 1,000 people, and also includes sport and leisure centers. Two underground levels house a restaurant and guestrooms facing a huge deep aquarium. The lowest level of the hotel will contain a leisure complex with a swimming pool and water-based sports. London Underground Hotel (rendering courtesy Ian Chalk Architects) This 166-bed hotel is being built on the site of a former parking garage underneath the St. Giles Hotel on Great Russell Street and will be situated 50 feet beneath the streets of Bloomsbury.  The budget subterranean hotel will have room for 166 guests and will be in the Japanese pod design. Les Hautes Roches Staying overnight in the troglodyte caves of the Les Hautes Roches is a unique experience. The rooms are sculpted into the rock and overlook the Loire River. The cave was formally used by monks, but have now been converted into luxurious accommodations. Most of the furniture is actually carved out of a wall of rock. With twelve rooms carved into the limestone walls and a gourmet restaurant, the hotel opened its doors in 1989. These once-abandoned-caves and connecting 17 century pavilion had remained empty for over fifteen years. Special rates are over $600 per double including dinner and wines. Iconic Santorini Cave Suite Located in the village of Imerovigli, the Iconic Santorini Hotel recently opened the new Cave Suite as a spacious retreat within the hotels volcanic cliff site. The Iconic Santorini Grotto Suites are situated inside the original handmade caverns of the caldera, each inspired by traditional Greek residences. Hidden deep within these historic cave homes is a heated grotto pool. There are 19 cave accommodations, rooms and suites. Rates for doubles average $1,400 per night in high season. Wadi Rum Desert Hotel (Rendering courtesy of Oppenheim Architects) Currently in the planning stages, Florida-based Oppenheim Architects have created these 47 spectacular futuristic desert lodges at a resort in Wadi Rum, Jordan. Located an hour and a half outside of Petra, within the ancient city of the Nebataeans, the resort will be carved into the desert rock. The lodges will be located underground and within the sandstone cliff face. The building elements will be made from earth and cement mixed with local red sand. The minimal design of the lodges and villas will be surrounded by a rock lodge, spa lodge, tent lodge and private reserve villa. La Dimora di Metello Cave Suite The La Dimora di Metello luxury hotel was created within the caves of Matera in southern Italy, where people have been carving out homes and churches for decades. Situated within the rock face are four spacious suites, a common area, a terrace, and even a spa. Rooms have been designed with lots of space, and the resort is spread over 3,200 square feet. Bathtubs are tucked away inside the cave walls while mirrored stairs frame the large beds. Rates range upwards of $200 per double suite. Locanda di San Martino Cave Suite Locanda di San Martino Hotel pays tribute to the famed baths of the Roman Empire. The hotel was formerly a religious home for Franciscan monks, and one of the rooms was used as a carpentry workshop. With 28 bedrooms and a bar, it is perhaps the much sought-after spa complex that attracts visitors. Carved out of limestone rock from thousands of years ago, and re-creating the popular royal experience, the spa offers multiple stages of water treatments. Rooms are a mix of caves, grottos and stone structures. Rates start at about $120 for a double room. Le Grotte della Civita suite Restored from old abandoned ancient caves in the village of Matera in southern Italy, the stunning, candle-lit caves of Sextantio Le Grotte Della Civita offer guests a luxury retreat with a twist. Daniele Kihlgren and Margareta Berg restored the caves while preserving the existing architecture and local aesthetic. The minimalist designed hotel, including Philippe Starck bathtubs offers up 18 rooms in the oldest part of the caves, as well as a restaurant located in a former church. My favorite of all the cave hotels, this retreat is worth the visit. Doubles in high season range around $605. Woodlyn Park Hobbit Motel The area of Waitomo in Northern New Zealand is full of underground limestone caverns and caves. The owner of Woodlyn Park was inspired to build the underground Hobbit Motel following the success of the film . The two motels are buried beneath a large green hill where sheep wander freely For additional comfort, the interiors of the underground rooms are scaled to regular size so no bending is necessary. Each unit features a suite with queen bed, living area and kitchen. There is a separate bedroom with 4 oversized single beds. Each motel can sleep up to 6 people. Rates for double are $285 nightly. Cuevas Pedro Antonio Jacuzzi Cave Suite The Cuevas Pedro Antonio de Alarcon was transformed from pre-historic cave homes and carved into the clay hillside, with rooms overlooking the Sierra Nevada Mountains. Each cave features rustic-style décor with red clay and white-washed walls, as well as a fireplace. All caves feature modern facilities in a location close to Granada, Spain. Doubles start at $100 per night. Sala Silver Mine suite entrance For more than 800 years, silver was excavated and extracted in the area around Sala, located in Central Sweden. The Sala Silver Mine was once considered to have one of the five largest silver deposits in the world. Sala Silver Mine now offers up the world’s deepest hotel suite 500 feet below surface. It is so deep that there are no rats or bats, and the environment is eerily quiet and dry. The Sala Silver Mine is an actual mine that allows visitors to stay in a Mine Suite, next to underground galleries and caverns. Guests will receive a guided tour of the mine, as well as a basket of goodies and breakfast.  Rates start at $500 per night. La Claustra Hotel Now when you visit the Swiss Alps, you can actually stay in a former army fortress that is located within the rocky face of the mountain. The 17 room La Claustra Hotel is located an hour south of Lucerne and encompasses a 53,000 square feet area formerly used as a Swiss army bunker. A Swiss ski enthusiast renovated the space including metallic bunker doors that now open into the hotels bedroom suites. The hotel includes a sauna, restaurant and swimming pool. Rates range from $750 per double. Sidi Driss Star Wars Cave Suite Located in the small Berber village of Matmata, is a traditional troglodyte cave dwelling that is the original film set of Luke Skywalker's Tatooine home from the trilogy. Filmmaker George Lucas selected Hotel Sidi Driss as one of the locations for filming the trilogy, and eventually, the hotel fell into disrepair with most of the decor used in the movie removed by the owners. In 1995, a French fan restored the frescoes in one of the rooms. The decorations were fully restored in 2000 for the filming of The 20 room hotel is open all year round and offers affordable accommodations. It can accommodate up to 145 guests, grouped in four separate caverns, with the fifth room used as the hotel's restaurant. Rates start at $10 per night for the simple and very sparse quarters. *For more luxury cave hotel options in the area, make sure to check out; Autrait d’union Tijma, L’auberge de Tamezret and Kena. Kelebek Heritage Cave Suite The region of Cappadocia in central Turkey is home to the most spectacular landscapes in the world, including deep valleys and massive rock formations with entire subterranean cities carved into the natural land. Perched above the small village of Goreme, the Kelebek Special Cave Hotel offers magnificent views over the village, and to the valleys and mountains beyond. With 47 unique rooms, the hotel offers the cave or cave stone experience with modern amenities. The hotel was the ancestral home of the owner and started off as a guesthouse for backpackers. The Kelebek Hotel has grown into a mix of traditional fairy chimney rooms at the top of the rock formations to luxury suites. The hotel offers wide views over the heart of Cappadocia surrounded by rose gardens, an outdoor swimming pool, luxury spa Hamam and a restaurant. Rates start at $130 per double. Gamirasu Cave Hotel Suite The Gamirasu Hotel is located near Urgup, the heart of Cappadocia in the Ayvali village. The hotel offers up 35 restored and newly designed cave rooms. It is the first rock hotel in the region and opened to the public in 1999. The hotel was once used as a monastic retreat in the Byzantine Era, and some parts of the hotel were used by istian priests until one thousand years ago. It is the only hotel in the Cappadocia region which contains a Byzantine Orthodox church from the 11th century and includes a kitchen which once belonged to the monastery, including the original dining hall. Some of the cave rooms are the cells in which priests once retreated into seclusion. Rates for the stunning Byzantine suite average $1,000 per couple. Follow me on Twitter , Instagram and Facebook Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

My first experience sleeping in an underground hotel was in Southern Italy, in the small town of Matera. It was one of the most unusual overnights within the haunted atmosphere of the Sassi District, filled with catacombs of dwellings lining the ravine. I slept where medieval peasants once lived, offering up one of the most memorable evenings, and in one of the oldest cities in the world.

My fascination with underground bunkers and dwellings continues with this guide to the world’s best underground hotels. Ranging from ultra-budget to pure luxury, these are the best subterranean options available for the adventurous traveler.

USA

Grand Canyon Caverns / Arizona

The Grand Canyon Caverns Suite is famously billed as "the world's largest, deepest, darkest motel room," the underground hotel room is almost 220 feet below ground, and surrounded by history. During the Cuban Missile Crisis, President John F. Kennedy turned the 65-million-year old caves into a bomb shelter to accommodate 2,000 people.

The Cavern Suite is part of a 48-room no-frills motel. Located within a limestone cave on a platform, it includes beds, bathroom and living quarters. The cave is so deep that it is the largest dry cavern in the United States, and is virtually moisture free. To experience this thrill be ready to shell out $850 a night for two people.

Beckham Creek Cave Lodge / Arkansas

The Beckham Creek Cave Lodge provides an exclusive 6,000 sq. ft. living space within the Cliffside cave. Located in the Ozark Mountains and close to the Buffalo National River, each of the lodge bedrooms have their own showers built into the rock, while the lodge provides all modern amenities. This cave lodge sleeps 10 and goes for a pricey $1,600/ night.

Kokopellis Cave / New Mexico

The Kokopellis Cave house is built into the towering cliffs of Tertiary Ojo Alamo sandstone and overlooks the La Plata river valley 300 feet below. The cave is 70 feet below the surface, with an entrance located in the cliff face reached by walking down a path cut into the sandstone.

The man-made cave was originally supposed to be an office for the geologist owner, but they ultimately decided to turn it into a bed and breakfast. The 1,700-square foot cave includes a master bedroom, living area, dining area, full kitchen and bathroom with rock walls enclosed around a waterfall shower and Jacuzzi tub. Most rooms are situated around a huge sandstone pillar that separates the Cave into different rooms. Nightly rates are $310 for two.

Cumberland Caverns / Tennessee

Discovered in 1810, the Cumberland Caverns spreads over 30 miles underground. The enormous living space provides room for up to 250 people to camp if they bring their own equipment. With a chandelier lighting the way, there are bathrooms, a snack bar and other amenities to add to the glamping. Overnighting in the cave starts at $40 per person and includes breakfast.

AUSTRALIA

White Cliffs Underground Motel

This well-known motel opened in 1989 and has expanded to provide accommodation for up to 100 people. The White Cliffs Underground Motel is man-made and covers an entire area the size of a football field.

The motel is dug into ‘Poor Mans Hill’ (Smith Hill), which earned its name due to the lack of opal discovered in the early 1900’s. During the 1980′s, the area was renovated to become a family home, and due to popularity in 1989 it became a motel. The White Cliffs Underground Motel is huge with 30 underground rooms called “dugouts” and can accommodate up to 5 people. Doubles go for $149 including breakfast.

Desert Cave Hotel / Coober Pedy

Coober Pedy is located half way between Adelaide and Alice Springs. Since 1915 Coober Pedy has attracted miners to discover opal which was found in the Outback, and many people lived in underground homes. Construction on the hotel began in 1984 and the Desert Cave Hotel was officially opened in 1988. The 19 underground rooms are large with high ceilings. The Cave Hotel also has underground shops, a cafe, an underground bar and gaming room. Double rates are $260 per night.

CHINA

Songjiang InterContinental Hotel

Opening in 2018, the spectacular Songjiang Intercontinental Hotel is currently under construction at the foot of Tianmenshan Mountain in the Songjiang District of Shanghai, East China.

The town of Songjiang is 22 miles from Shanghai, and the unique design is intended to reflect the natural landscape of the quarry surrounded by rocky cliffs, waterfalls and hills. The five-star, 383-bedroom hotel built into the side of the former water filled quarry will be operated by Intercontinental as a luxury spa resort. The futuristic hotel features underground public areas, guest rooms and conference facilities for up to 1,000 people, and also includes sport and leisure centers. Two underground levels house a restaurant and guestrooms facing a huge deep aquarium. The lowest level of the hotel will contain a leisure complex with a swimming pool and water-based sports.

ENGLAND

London Underground Hotel

This 166-bed hotel is being built on the site of a former parking garage underneath the St. Giles Hotel on Great Russell Street and will be situated 50 feet beneath the streets of Bloomsbury. The budget subterranean hotel will have room for 166 guests and will be in the Japanese pod design.

FRANCE

Les Hautes Roches

Staying overnight in the troglodyte caves of the Les Hautes Roches is a unique experience. The rooms are sculpted into the rock and overlook the Loire River. The cave was formally used by monks, but have now been converted into luxurious accommodations. Most of the furniture is actually carved out of a wall of rock.

With twelve rooms carved into the limestone walls and a gourmet restaurant, the hotel opened its doors in 1989. These once-abandoned-caves and connecting 17th century pavilion had remained empty for over fifteen years. Special rates are over $600 per double including dinner and wines.

GREECE

Iconic Santorini Hotel

Located in the village of Imerovigli, the Iconic Santorini Hotel recently opened the new Cave Suite as a spacious retreat within the hotels volcanic cliff site. The Iconic Santorini Grotto Suites are situated inside the original handmade caverns of the caldera, each inspired by traditional Greek residences. Hidden deep within these historic cave homes is a heated grotto pool. There are 19 cave accommodations, rooms and suites. Rates for doubles average $1,400 per night in high season.

JORDAN

Wadi Rum Desert Hotel

Currently in the planning stages, Florida-based Oppenheim Architects have created these 47 spectacular futuristic desert lodges at a resort in Wadi Rum, Jordan. Located an hour and a half outside of Petra, within the ancient city of the Nebataeans, the resort will be carved into the desert rock. The lodges will be located underground and within the sandstone cliff face. The building elements will be made from earth and cement mixed with local red sand.

The minimal design of the lodges and villas will be surrounded by a rock lodge, spa lodge, tent lodge and private reserve villa.

ITALY

La Dimora di Metello / Matera

The La Dimora di Metello luxury hotel was created within the caves of Matera in southern Italy, where people have been carving out homes and churches for decades. Situated within the rock face are four spacious suites, a common area, a terrace, and even a spa.

Rooms have been designed with lots of space, and the resort is spread over 3,200 square feet. Bathtubs are tucked away inside the cave walls while mirrored stairs frame the large beds. Rates range upwards of $200 per double suite.

Locanda di San Martino Hotel / Matera

Locanda di San Martino Hotel pays tribute to the famed baths of the Roman Empire. The hotel was formerly a religious home for Franciscan monks, and one of the rooms was used as a carpentry workshop. With 28 bedrooms and a bar, it is perhaps the much sought-after spa complex that attracts visitors. Carved out of limestone rock from thousands of years ago, and re-creating the popular royal experience, the spa offers multiple stages of water treatments. Rooms are a mix of caves, grottos and stone structures. Rates start at about $120 for a double room.

Sextantio Le Grotte della Civita /Matera

Restored from old abandoned ancient caves in the village of Matera in southern Italy, the stunning, candle-lit caves of Sextantio Le Grotte Della Civita offer guests a luxury retreat with a twist. Daniele Kihlgren and Margareta Berg restored the caves while preserving the existing architecture and local aesthetic. The minimalist designed hotel, including Philippe Starck bathtubs offers up 18 rooms in the oldest part of the caves, as well as a restaurant located in a former church. My favorite of all the cave hotels, this retreat is worth the visit. Doubles in high season range around $605.

NEW ZEALAND

Woodlyn Park Hobbit Motel

The area of Waitomo in Northern New Zealand is full of underground limestone caverns and caves. The owner of Woodlyn Park was inspired to build the underground Hobbit Motel following the success of the film Lord of the Rings. The two motels are buried beneath a large green hill where sheep wander freely. For additional comfort, the interiors of the underground rooms are scaled to regular size so no bending is necessary.

Each unit features a suite with queen bed, living area and kitchen. There is a separate bedroom with 4 oversized single beds. Each motel can sleep up to 6 people. Rates for double are $285 nightly.

SPAIN

Cuevas Pedro Antonio de Alarcon

The Cuevas Pedro Antonio de Alarcon was transformed from pre-historic cave homes and carved into the clay hillside, with rooms overlooking the Sierra Nevada Mountains. Each cave features rustic-style décor with red clay and white-washed walls, as well as a fireplace. All caves feature modern facilities in a location close to Granada, Spain. Doubles start at $100 per night.

SWEDEN

Sala Silver Mine / Sweden

For more than 800 years, silver was excavated and extracted in the area around Sala, located in Central Sweden. The Sala Silver Mine was once considered to have one of the five largest silver deposits in the world. Sala Silver Mine now offers up the world’s deepest hotel suite 500 feet below surface. It is so deep that there are no rats or bats, and the environment is eerily quiet and dry.

The Sala Silver Mine is an actual mine that allows visitors to stay in a Mine Suite, next to underground galleries and caverns. Guests will receive a guided tour of the mine, as well as a basket of goodies and breakfast. Rates start at $500 per night.

SWITZERLAND

La Claustra

Now when you visit the Swiss Alps, you can actually stay in a former army fortress that is located within the rocky face of the mountain. The 17 room La Claustra Hotel is located an hour south of Lucerne and encompasses a 53,000 square feet area formerly used as a Swiss army bunker.

A Swiss ski enthusiast renovated the space including metallic bunker doors that now open into the hotels bedroom suites. The hotel includes a sauna, restaurant and swimming pool. Rates range from $750 per double.

TUNISIA

Star Wars Hotel Sidi Driss

Located in the small Berber village of Matmata, is a traditional troglodyte cave dwelling that is the original film set of Luke Skywalker's Tatooine home from the Star Wars trilogy.

Filmmaker George Lucas selected Hotel Sidi Driss as one of the locations for filming the Star Wars trilogy, and eventually, the hotel fell into disrepair with most of the decor used in the movie removed by the owners. In 1995, a French Star Wars fan restored the frescoes in one of the rooms. The Star Wars decorations were fully restored in 2000 for the filming of Attack of the Clones. The 20 room hotel is open all year round and offers affordable accommodations. It can accommodate up to 145 guests, grouped in four separate caverns, with the fifth room used as the hotel's restaurant. Rates start at $10 per night for the simple and very sparse quarters.

*For more luxury cave hotel options in the area, make sure to check out; Autrait d’union Tijma, L’auberge de Tamezret and Kena.

TURKEY

Kelebek Special Cave / Cappadocia

The region of Cappadocia in central Turkey is home to the most spectacular landscapes in the world, including deep valleys and massive rock formations with entire subterranean cities carved into the natural land. Perched above the small village of Goreme, the Kelebek Special Cave Hotel offers magnificent views over the village, and to the valleys and mountains beyond. With 47 unique rooms, the hotel offers the cave or cave stone experience with modern amenities.

The hotel was the ancestral home of the owner and started off as a guesthouse for backpackers. The Kelebek Hotel has grown into a mix of traditional fairy chimney rooms at the top of the rock formations to luxury suites. The hotel offers wide views over the heart of Cappadocia surrounded by rose gardens, an outdoor swimming pool, luxury spa Hamam and a restaurant. Rates start at $130 per double.

Gamirasu Cave Hotel / Cappadocia

The Gamirasu Hotel is located near Urgup, the heart of Cappadocia in the Ayvali village. The hotel offers up 35 restored and newly designed cave rooms. It is the first rock hotel in the region and opened to the public in 1999.

The hotel was once used as a monastic retreat in the Byzantine Era, and some parts of the hotel were used by istian priests until one thousand years ago. It is the only hotel in the Cappadocia region which contains a Byzantine Orthodox church from the 11th century and includes a kitchen which once belonged to the monastery, including the original dining hall. Some of the cave rooms are the cells in which priests once retreated into seclusion. Rates for the stunning Byzantine suite average $1,000 per couple.

Follow me on Twitter , Instagram and Facebook

Copyright 2016 by Jim Dobson / Forbes. Material may not be published, rewritten or redistributed without link to original content.