South Korea: President Park Geun-hye leaves Blue House following corruption scandal
South Korea: President Park Geun-hye leaves Blue House following corruption scandal
Disgraced South Korean leader Park Geun-hye has left the presidential Blue House, two days after a court dismissed her over a corruption scandal, bound for her private home and facing the possibility of prosecution and jail. Park left the compound in a motorcade of fast-driving black cars, flanked by police motorbikes, after bidding farewell to staff, an official said. She was heading for her home in the Gangnam district of the capital, Seoul, where hundreds of flag-waving supporters waited. “President Park Geun-hye has just now departed the Blue House and headed for her private home,” a Blue House official said by text message. The Constitutional Court ruled on Friday to uphold a parliamentary vote to impeach Ma Park, dismissing her from office over an influence-peddling scandal that has shaken the country’s political and business elite. A snap presidential election will be held by 9 May.   Protesters killed in rallies against South Korea's ousted leader Ms Park, 65, is South Korea’s first democratically elected leader to be forced from office. Her dismissal followed months of political paralysis and turmoil over the graft scandal that also landed the head of the Samsung conglomerate in jail and facing trial. The crisis has coincided with rising tension with North Korea and anger from China over the deployment in South Korea of a US missile-defence system. Ms Park did not appear in court on Friday and she has not made any comment since. She remained in the Blue House, prompting some grumbling from critics keen to see her stripped of the privileges of power. Her dismissal marked a dramatic fall from grace of South Korea’s first woman president and daughter of Cold War military dictator Park Chung-hee. It was not the first time she has had to leave the Blue House compound of traditional-style buildings at the foot of a hill in central Seoul. In 1979, after a nine-day funeral following the assassination of her father, the young Ms Park left the Blue House with her siblings for a family home. She had been acting first lady after her mother was shot and killed in an earlier failed assassination attempt on her father. Now, having lost presidential immunity, she could face criminal charges over bribery, extortion and abuse of power in connection with allegations of conspiring with her friend, Choi Soon-sil. Both women denied wrongdoing. World news in pictures               World news in pictures    5 March 2017   A member of the Tinstix of Dynamite aerobatics team flies in front of a wall of fire during the Australian International Airshow in Melbourne   Getty Images     5 March 2017   A participant stretches on the beach before the start of an annual two-mile sea swimming competition in Colombo, Sri Lanka   Reuters     5 March 2017   Participants jump into water during the annual two-mile sea swimming competition in Colombo, Sri Lanka   Reuters     5 March 2017   Japan's Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko wave to bid farewell as they depart for Thailand from Phu Bai International Airport in the central city of Hue, Vietnam   EPA     5 March 2017   Reconnaissance unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on display indoors at the International Defence Exhibition in Iraq (IQDEX) 2017   Getty Images     5 March 2017   A participant presents hisr vintage vehicle during the 59th International Vintage Car Rally Barcelona-Sitges, at plaza Sant Jaume in Barcelona, Spain.  Some 50 vintage vehicles take part in the two-day long event, through the coastal line of Mediterranean Sea from Barcelona to Sitges   EPA     5 March 2017   Participants present their vintage cars during the 59th International Vintage Car Rally Barcelona-Sitges, at plaza Sant Jaume in Barcelona, Spain   EPA     5 March 2017   New York Governor Mario Cuomo looks around the 'Hall of Names' in the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial in Jerusalem.  The hall has portraits of some 600 individuals exterminated by the Nazis during the Holocaust of World War II   EPA     5 March 2017   The Chinese police officers on self balancing police vehicles patrol in Tiananmen Square before the opening of the fifth Session of the 12th National People's Congress (NPC) outside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China   EPA     5 March 2017   A general view shows the opening session of the National People's Congress, China's legislature, in Beijing's Great Hall of the People   Getty Images     5 March 2017   Hostesses jump as they pose for a picture during the opening of the National People's Congress in Beijing   Getty Images     5 March 2017   A picture taken in the Iraqi capital Bahgdad shows rocket launchers on display indoors at the International Defence Exhibition in Iraq (IQDEX) 2017   Getty Images     5 March 2017   A Pakistani army helicopter flies past floodlights as it patrols over The Gaddafi Cricket Stadium in Lahore, ahead of the final cricket match of the Pakistan Super League (PSL) between Quetta Gladiators and Peshawar Zalmi   Getty Images     5 March 2017   A Buddhist devotee dashes barefoot through flames during the Nagatoro Hi-Matsuri, or fire walking festival, to herald the coming of spring, at the Fudoji temple in Nagatoro town, Saitama prefecture   Getty Images     5 March 2017   A resident inspects their personal house belongings after a moderate earthquake hit the Surigao city, southern Philippines   Reuters     5 March 2017   People with portraits of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin gather outside his museum in his native town of Gori, some 80 kms outside Tbilisi, on the 64th anniversary of Stalin's death.  While historians blame Stalin for the deaths of millions in purges, prison camps and forced collectivization, many in Russia still praise him for leading the Soviet Union to victory over Nazi Germany in World War I   Getty Images     5 March 2017   Head of Ukraine's tax and customs service Roman Nasirov, who is under investigation over the suspected embezzlement and who according to several unconfirmed local media reports recently suffered a heart attack, lies inside the defendant's cage during a court hearing in Kiev, Ukraine   Reuters     4 March 2017   Flag bearer Jesslyn Swirka rides her horse down Harrison Avenue in Leadville, Colorado at the start of the 68th annual Leadville Ski Joring weekend competition in Leadville, Colorado.
Skijoring, which has its origins as a competitive sport in Scandinavia, has been adapted over the years to include a team made up of a rider and skier who must navigate jumps, slalom gates, and the spearing of rings for points. 
Leadville, with an elevation of 10,152 feet (3,094 m), the highest incorporated city in North America, has been hosting skijoring competitions since 1949   Getty Images     4 March 2017   A rider races down Harrison Avenue while a skier navigates the course during the 68th annual Leadville Ski Joring weekend competition in Leadville, Colorado   Getty Images     4 March 2017   A demonstrator in opposition of US President Donald Trump sets a hat on fire during a 'People 4 Trump' rally in Berkeley, California   Reuters     4 March 2017   A demonstrator in support of US President Donald Trump swings a stick towards a group of counter-protesters during a 'People 4 Trump' rally in Berkeley, California   Reuters     4 March 2017   A bloodied supporter of US President Donald Trump is seen after a 'People 4 Trump' rally and counter-protest turned violent in Berkeley, California   Reuters     4 March 2017   Women take part in a performance to protest against the disappearance of the 43 students of Ayotzinapa College Raul Isidro Burgos in Guerrero, in Mexico City, Mexico   Reuters     4 March 2017   A woman looks on as she takes part in a performance to protest against the disappearance of the 43 students of Ayotzinapa College Raul Isidro Burgos in Guerrero, in Mexico City, Mexico   Reuters     4 March 2017   An Iraqi special forces soldier fires at a drone operated by Islamic State militants Islamic State militants in Mosul, Iraq   Reuters     4 March 2017   A man cries while carrying his daughter as he walks from Islamic State controlled part of Mosul towards Iraqi special forces soldiers during a battle in Mosul, Iraq   Reuters     4 March 2017   Iraqi special forces soldiers walk in a street in Mosul, Iraq   Reuters     4 March 2017   An Iraqi special forces soldier helps a family carry their child to cross from Islamic State controlled part of Mosul to Iraqi forces controlled part of Mosul, Iraq   Reuters     4 March 2017   A man looks towards a Russian helicopter as it flies over ruins in the historic city of Palmyra, Syria   Reuters     2 March 2017   Policemen and a passerby look at pictures of the ones killed due to alleged involvement in illegal drugs, during a protest against extra-judicial killings at an open area of a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines   Reuters     2 March 2017   Families with slain loved ones who they say were killed due to alleged involvement in illegal drugs, weep during a Holy Eucharist mass against extra-judicial killings (EJK) inside a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines   Reuters     2 March 2017   People hold photos of their family members, who they say were killed due to their alleged involvement in illegal drugs, during a protest against extra-judicial killings (EJK) while marching in an open area of a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines   Reuters  Earlier on Sunday, media outside her private home said renovators were at work inside. Television later showed a moving van outside the house and men unloading boxes and furniture. The liberal politician likely to become the next president, Moon Jae-in, promised to work for justice and common sense. “We still have a long way to go. We have to make this a country of justice, of common sense through regime change,” Ms Moon, who advocates reconciliation with North Korea, told a news conference. “We all have to work together for a complete victory.” Ms Moon is leading in opinion polls which show South Koreans are likely to throw out the conservatives after nearly a decade in power and turn to a liberal leader. Ms Moon called on Ms Park to publicly accept the court ruling and warned she should not try to destroy or remove any documents when she left the Blue House. Ms Park’s dismissal have exposed fault lines in a society long divided by Cold War politics. Thousands of Ms Park’s opponents celebrated in Seoul on Saturday, where they have been gathering every weekend for months, and demanded that she be arrested. The former President’s conservative supporters also took to the streets not far away, though fewer in number. Police were out in force but there was no trouble. On Friday, two Park supporters were killed as they tried to break through police lines outside the court, shortly after the verdict. One was believed to have had a heart attack, a hospital official said, and the other died as protesters attacked police buses being used as a barricade. A third protester, a man aged 74, suffered a heart attack and died on Saturday. More about: South Korea Comments

Disgraced South Korean leader Park Geun-hye has left the presidential Blue House, two days after a court dismissed her over a corruption scandal, bound for her private home and facing the possibility of prosecution and jail.

Park left the compound in a motorcade of fast-driving black cars, flanked by police motorbikes, after bidding farewell to staff, an official said. She was heading for her home in the Gangnam district of the capital, Seoul, where hundreds of flag-waving supporters waited.

“President Park Geun-hye has just now departed the Blue House and headed for her private home,” a Blue House official said by text message.

The Constitutional Court ruled on Friday to uphold a parliamentary vote to impeach Ma Park, dismissing her from office over an influence-peddling scandal that has shaken the country’s political and business elite.

A snap presidential election will be held by 9 May.

Ms Park, 65, is South Korea’s first democratically elected leader to be forced from office.

Her dismissal followed months of political paralysis and turmoil over the graft scandal that also landed the head of the Samsung conglomerate in jail and facing trial.

The crisis has coincided with rising tension with North Korea and anger from China over the deployment in South Korea of a US missile-defence system.

Ms Park did not appear in court on Friday and she has not made any comment since. She remained in the Blue House, prompting some grumbling from critics keen to see her stripped of the privileges of power.

Her dismissal marked a dramatic fall from grace of South Korea’s first woman president and daughter of Cold War military dictator Park Chung-hee.

It was not the first time she has had to leave the Blue House compound of traditional-style buildings at the foot of a hill in central Seoul.

In 1979, after a nine-day funeral following the assassination of her father, the young Ms Park left the Blue House with her siblings for a family home. She had been acting first lady after her mother was shot and killed in an earlier failed assassination attempt on her father.

Now, having lost presidential immunity, she could face criminal charges over bribery, extortion and abuse of power in connection with allegations of conspiring with her friend, Choi Soon-sil.

Both women denied wrongdoing.

World news in pictures







32 show all World news in pictures





























































1/32 5 March 2017 A member of the Tinstix of Dynamite aerobatics team flies in front of a wall of fire during the Australian International Airshow in Melbourne Getty Images

2/32 5 March 2017 A participant stretches on the beach before the start of an annual two-mile sea swimming competition in Colombo, Sri Lanka Reuters

3/32 5 March 2017 Participants jump into water during the annual two-mile sea swimming competition in Colombo, Sri Lanka Reuters

4/32 5 March 2017 Japan's Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko wave to bid farewell as they depart for Thailand from Phu Bai International Airport in the central city of Hue, Vietnam EPA

5/32 5 March 2017 Reconnaissance unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on display indoors at the International Defence Exhibition in Iraq (IQDEX) 2017 Getty Images

6/32 5 March 2017 A participant presents hisr vintage vehicle during the 59th International Vintage Car Rally Barcelona-Sitges, at plaza Sant Jaume in Barcelona, Spain. Some 50 vintage vehicles take part in the two-day long event, through the coastal line of Mediterranean Sea from Barcelona to Sitges EPA

7/32 5 March 2017 Participants present their vintage cars during the 59th International Vintage Car Rally Barcelona-Sitges, at plaza Sant Jaume in Barcelona, Spain EPA

8/32 5 March 2017 New York Governor Mario Cuomo looks around the 'Hall of Names' in the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial in Jerusalem. The hall has portraits of some 600 individuals exterminated by the Nazis during the Holocaust of World War II EPA

9/32 5 March 2017 The Chinese police officers on self balancing police vehicles patrol in Tiananmen Square before the opening of the fifth Session of the 12th National People's Congress (NPC) outside the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China EPA

10/32 5 March 2017 A general view shows the opening session of the National People's Congress, China's legislature, in Beijing's Great Hall of the People Getty Images

11/32 5 March 2017 Hostesses jump as they pose for a picture during the opening of the National People's Congress in Beijing Getty Images

12/32 5 March 2017 A picture taken in the Iraqi capital Bahgdad shows rocket launchers on display indoors at the International Defence Exhibition in Iraq (IQDEX) 2017 Getty Images

13/32 5 March 2017 A Pakistani army helicopter flies past floodlights as it patrols over The Gaddafi Cricket Stadium in Lahore, ahead of the final cricket match of the Pakistan Super League (PSL) between Quetta Gladiators and Peshawar Zalmi Getty Images

14/32 5 March 2017 A Buddhist devotee dashes barefoot through flames during the Nagatoro Hi-Matsuri, or fire walking festival, to herald the coming of spring, at the Fudoji temple in Nagatoro town, Saitama prefecture Getty Images

15/32 5 March 2017 A resident inspects their personal house belongings after a moderate earthquake hit the Surigao city, southern Philippines Reuters

16/32 5 March 2017 People with portraits of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin gather outside his museum in his native town of Gori, some 80 kms outside Tbilisi, on the 64th anniversary of Stalin's death. While historians blame Stalin for the deaths of millions in purges, prison camps and forced collectivization, many in Russia still praise him for leading the Soviet Union to victory over Nazi Germany in World War I Getty Images

17/32 5 March 2017 Head of Ukraine's tax and customs service Roman Nasirov, who is under investigation over the suspected embezzlement and who according to several unconfirmed local media reports recently suffered a heart attack, lies inside the defendant's cage during a court hearing in Kiev, Ukraine Reuters

18/32 4 March 2017 Flag bearer Jesslyn Swirka rides her horse down Harrison Avenue in Leadville, Colorado at the start of the 68th annual Leadville Ski Joring weekend competition in Leadville, Colorado. Skijoring, which has its origins as a competitive sport in Scandinavia, has been adapted over the years to include a team made up of a rider and skier who must navigate jumps, slalom gates, and the spearing of rings for points. Leadville, with an elevation of 10,152 feet (3,094 m), the highest incorporated city in North America, has been hosting skijoring competitions since 1949 Getty Images

19/32 4 March 2017 A rider races down Harrison Avenue while a skier navigates the course during the 68th annual Leadville Ski Joring weekend competition in Leadville, Colorado Getty Images

20/32 4 March 2017 A demonstrator in opposition of US President Donald Trump sets a hat on fire during a 'People 4 Trump' rally in Berkeley, California Reuters

21/32 4 March 2017 A demonstrator in support of US President Donald Trump swings a stick towards a group of counter-protesters during a 'People 4 Trump' rally in Berkeley, California Reuters

22/32 4 March 2017 A bloodied supporter of US President Donald Trump is seen after a 'People 4 Trump' rally and counter-protest turned violent in Berkeley, California Reuters

23/32 4 March 2017 Women take part in a performance to protest against the disappearance of the 43 students of Ayotzinapa College Raul Isidro Burgos in Guerrero, in Mexico City, Mexico Reuters

24/32 4 March 2017 A woman looks on as she takes part in a performance to protest against the disappearance of the 43 students of Ayotzinapa College Raul Isidro Burgos in Guerrero, in Mexico City, Mexico Reuters

25/32 4 March 2017 An Iraqi special forces soldier fires at a drone operated by Islamic State militants Islamic State militants in Mosul, Iraq Reuters

26/32 4 March 2017 A man cries while carrying his daughter as he walks from Islamic State controlled part of Mosul towards Iraqi special forces soldiers during a battle in Mosul, Iraq Reuters

27/32 4 March 2017 Iraqi special forces soldiers walk in a street in Mosul, Iraq Reuters

28/32 4 March 2017 An Iraqi special forces soldier helps a family carry their child to cross from Islamic State controlled part of Mosul to Iraqi forces controlled part of Mosul, Iraq Reuters

29/32 4 March 2017 A man looks towards a Russian helicopter as it flies over ruins in the historic city of Palmyra, Syria Reuters

30/32 2 March 2017 Policemen and a passerby look at pictures of the ones killed due to alleged involvement in illegal drugs, during a protest against extra-judicial killings at an open area of a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines Reuters

31/32 2 March 2017 Families with slain loved ones who they say were killed due to alleged involvement in illegal drugs, weep during a Holy Eucharist mass against extra-judicial killings (EJK) inside a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines Reuters

32/32 2 March 2017 People hold photos of their family members, who they say were killed due to their alleged involvement in illegal drugs, during a protest against extra-judicial killings (EJK) while marching in an open area of a Roman Catholic Church in Paranaque city, metro Manila, Philippines Reuters

Earlier on Sunday, media outside her private home said renovators were at work inside. Television later showed a moving van outside the house and men unloading boxes and furniture.

The liberal politician likely to become the next president, Moon Jae-in, promised to work for justice and common sense.

“We still have a long way to go. We have to make this a country of justice, of common sense through regime change,” Ms Moon, who advocates reconciliation with North Korea, told a news conference.

“We all have to work together for a complete victory.”

Ms Moon is leading in opinion polls which show South Koreans are likely to throw out the conservatives after nearly a decade in power and turn to a liberal leader.

Ms Moon called on Ms Park to publicly accept the court ruling and warned she should not try to destroy or remove any documents when she left the Blue House.

Ms Park’s dismissal have exposed fault lines in a society long divided by Cold War politics.

Thousands of Ms Park’s opponents celebrated in Seoul on Saturday, where they have been gathering every weekend for months, and demanded that she be arrested.

The former President’s conservative supporters also took to the streets not far away, though fewer in number.

Police were out in force but there was no trouble.

On Friday, two Park supporters were killed as they tried to break through police lines outside the court, shortly after the verdict.

One was believed to have had a heart attack, a hospital official said, and the other died as protesters attacked police buses being used as a barricade. A third protester, a man aged 74, suffered a heart attack and died on Saturday.

Reuters