Richard Gere criticizes Israeli settlements
Richard Gere criticizes Israeli settlements
Political Richard Gere criticizes Israeli settlements American actor Richard Gere speaks during a press conference at the Israeli premiere of the "Norman: The Moderate Rise and Tragic Fall of a New York Fixer" movie, in Jerusalem, Thursday, March 9, 2017. (AP Photo/Dan Balilty)
	                        
	                        	 (Copyright 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.) Richard Gere lashed out at Israel over its settlements in territory that Palestinians want for a state. "Settlements are such an absurd provocation ... and they are certainly not part of the program of someone who wants a genuine peace process," the actor is quoted saying in the Haaretz newspaper on Sunday. The international community mostly views settlements as an obstacle to creating a Palestinian state alongside Israel in territory it captured in the 1967 war. Israel says settlements should be resolved in peace talks. The "Pretty Woman" actor went to Jerusalem for the premiere of a new film by Israeli writer-director Joseph Cedar in which he stars.   Richard Gere criticizes Israeli settlements   AnnaLynne McCord on being raped at age 18: 'For 10 years, I thought it was my fault'   Olivia Newton-John's daughter Chloe Lattanzi: Plastic surgery left me 'mutilated'   Emma Watson: 'You should be able to see as much skin as possible'

Richard Gere lashed out at Israel over its settlements in territory that Palestinians want for a state.

"Settlements are such an absurd provocation ... and they are certainly not part of the program of someone who wants a genuine peace process," the actor is quoted saying in the Haaretz newspaper on Sunday.

The international community mostly views settlements as an obstacle to creating a Palestinian state alongside Israel in territory it captured in the 1967 war.

Israel says settlements should be resolved in peace talks.

The "Pretty Woman" actor went to Jerusalem for the premiere of a new film by Israeli writer-director Joseph Cedar in which he stars.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

