Disputed Irish loughs present Brexit conundrum for fishermen
Disputed Irish loughs present Brexit conundrum for fishermen
Mussel fisherman Brian MacDonald shares many of the concerns about Britain’s divorce from the European Union that are felt by tens of thousands of people who earn a living along the border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic. However the native of the Northern Irish harbour town of Warrenpoint has an additional headache on top of the prospect of tariffs and trade disruption – the waters in which he fishes are the subject of a territorial row that stretches back decades. Carlingford Lough – an estuary that forms part of the border between the county of Down in British-run Northern Ireland and Louth in EU member Ireland – is one of two waterways that present particularly complex issues as Britain removes itself from the EU over the next two years.   I was foolish to feel optimistic about the Northern Irish elections “No one can define who owns what. Neither of the two governments have defined the border here and nobody can say what is the North and what is the South,” said MacDonald. “It's two fiddlers playing two completely different tunes and we're stuck in the middle and nobody wants to talk to us about it.” Talks are ongoing between the Irish and British governments relating to the jurisdiction of Carlingford Lough and the unresolved ownership of Lough Foyle, which lies to the west between Donegal and Derry, the Loughs Agency, a cross-border body overseeing both areas, said in a statement. Across the water from Warrenpoint in Greenore, fellow mussel fisherman Brian Cunningham fears Brexit could lead to a doubling up of paperwork such as trawler registrations and add costs that would hurt the industry. Loughs, Brexit and fishermen in Northern Ireland               Loughs, Brexit and fishermen in Northern Ireland       Enda Craig, a member of the Loughs Agency Advisory Forum, holds a map of Lough Foyle in Moville, Ireland   Reuters        Oyster farmer William Lynch puts on his wellington boots on his oyster farm on Lough Foyle in Culmore, Northern Ireland   Reuters        Women walk along the shores of Carlingford Lough with Northern Ireland seen across the lough in Carlingford   Reuters        A poster hanging on a wall of a house reads: "No to the ferry", referring to a proposed new car ferry that would run from Northern Ireland to the Republic of Ireland through Carlingford Lough in Greencastle   Reuters        Skipper Shay Fitzpatrick (L) and boat owner Brian Cunningham navigate out of Warrenpoint harbour into Carlingford Lough in Warrenpoint, Northern Ireland   Reuters        A woman with flowers walks past an old fuel station in Carlingford, Ireland   Reuters        A boat is seen at sunset on Carlingford Lough in Greenore, Ireland   Reuters        A mandries off after swimming in Carlingford Lough in Omeath, Ireland   Reuters        A derelict house is seen on the shore of Carlingford Lough in Omeath, Ireland   Reuters        Skipper Shay Fitzpatrick dredges mussels from Carlingford Lough in Warrenpoint, Northern Ireland   Reuters        Bagged-up farmed oysters at a cleaning facility to get them ready for overseas shipping in Moville, Ireland   Reuters        A man walks his dog in matching hi-vis outfits on Carlingford Lough in Greenore, Ireland   Reuters        Carlingford Lough and in the distance Northern Ireland are seen at sunset from Omeath, Ireland   Reuters        A sign that reads: 'In 1771 nothing happened here' is seen on the shores of Carlingford Lough in Carlingford, Ireland   Reuters  He said most boats based in Northern Ireland normally fish off the coast in the Republic of Ireland. “When Brexit comes, what's going to happen? We're going to have to jump through hoops that by the time the paper work is sorted out our mussels will be dead,” he said. “They are landed live, processed live and sold live to the customer. It's a live animal, it's no different than the cattle, sheep or pig. So, it's going to be very, very difficult.” Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny has said it is of “vital national interest” that no physical barrier or customs controls be put back on the border, winning initial EU backing. But the fishermen of Carlingford Lough fear their long-standing concerns will not be a big priority. “It's vitally important to us that ... we have an equal footing to try and make a living as we have done for numerous years now,” said MacDonald. “But because we are not a big voice in the grand scheme of things nobody wants to talk to us and that's it.” More about: Carlingford Lough Northern Ireland Brexit European Union Britain Irish Republic Republic of Ireland Ireland Londonderry Comments

Mussel fisherman Brian MacDonald shares many of the concerns about Britain’s divorce from the European Union that are felt by tens of thousands of people who earn a living along the border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic. However the native of the Northern Irish harbour town of Warrenpoint has an additional headache on top of the prospect of tariffs and trade disruption – the waters in which he fishes are the subject of a territorial row that stretches back decades.

Carlingford Lough – an estuary that forms part of the border between the county of Down in British-run Northern Ireland and Louth in EU member Ireland – is one of two waterways that present particularly complex issues as Britain removes itself from the EU over the next two years.

“No one can define who owns what. Neither of the two governments have defined the border here and nobody can say what is the North and what is the South,” said MacDonald. “It's two fiddlers playing two completely different tunes and we're stuck in the middle and nobody wants to talk to us about it.”

Talks are ongoing between the Irish and British governments relating to the jurisdiction of Carlingford Lough and the unresolved ownership of Lough Foyle, which lies to the west between Donegal and Derry, the Loughs Agency, a cross-border body overseeing both areas, said in a statement. Across the water from Warrenpoint in Greenore, fellow mussel fisherman Brian Cunningham fears Brexit could lead to a doubling up of paperwork such as trawler registrations and add costs that would hurt the industry.

Loughs, Brexit and fishermen in Northern Ireland







14 show all Loughs, Brexit and fishermen in Northern Ireland

























1/14 Enda Craig, a member of the Loughs Agency Advisory Forum, holds a map of Lough Foyle in Moville, Ireland Reuters

2/14 Oyster farmer William Lynch puts on his wellington boots on his oyster farm on Lough Foyle in Culmore, Northern Ireland Reuters

3/14 Women walk along the shores of Carlingford Lough with Northern Ireland seen across the lough in Carlingford Reuters

4/14 A poster hanging on a wall of a house reads: "No to the ferry", referring to a proposed new car ferry that would run from Northern Ireland to the Republic of Ireland through Carlingford Lough in Greencastle Reuters

5/14 Skipper Shay Fitzpatrick (L) and boat owner Brian Cunningham navigate out of Warrenpoint harbour into Carlingford Lough in Warrenpoint, Northern Ireland Reuters

6/14 A woman with flowers walks past an old fuel station in Carlingford, Ireland Reuters

7/14 A boat is seen at sunset on Carlingford Lough in Greenore, Ireland Reuters

8/14 A mandries off after swimming in Carlingford Lough in Omeath, Ireland Reuters

9/14 A derelict house is seen on the shore of Carlingford Lough in Omeath, Ireland Reuters

10/14 Skipper Shay Fitzpatrick dredges mussels from Carlingford Lough in Warrenpoint, Northern Ireland Reuters

11/14 Bagged-up farmed oysters at a cleaning facility to get them ready for overseas shipping in Moville, Ireland Reuters

12/14 A man walks his dog in matching hi-vis outfits on Carlingford Lough in Greenore, Ireland Reuters

13/14 Carlingford Lough and in the distance Northern Ireland are seen at sunset from Omeath, Ireland Reuters

14/14 A sign that reads: 'In 1771 nothing happened here' is seen on the shores of Carlingford Lough in Carlingford, Ireland Reuters

He said most boats based in Northern Ireland normally fish off the coast in the Republic of Ireland. “When Brexit comes, what's going to happen? We're going to have to jump through hoops that by the time the paper work is sorted out our mussels will be dead,” he said. “They are landed live, processed live and sold live to the customer. It's a live animal, it's no different than the cattle, sheep or pig. So, it's going to be very, very difficult.”

Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny has said it is of “vital national interest” that no physical barrier or customs controls be put back on the border, winning initial EU backing. But the fishermen of Carlingford Lough fear their long-standing concerns will not be a big priority.

“It's vitally important to us that ... we have an equal footing to try and make a living as we have done for numerous years now,” said MacDonald. “But because we are not a big voice in the grand scheme of things nobody wants to talk to us and that's it.”

Reuters