Three Working Women Write An Open Letter To Mira Rajput, When Gigi Hadid Wore A Hijab For Vogue Arabia And More From Ent
Three Working Women Write An Open Letter To Mira Rajput, When Gigi Hadid Wore A Hijab For Vogue
Three Working Women Write An Open Letter To Mira Rajput, When Gigi Hadid Wore A Hijab For Vogue Arabia And More From Ent  1. Poonam Pandey Playing Holi In This Video Is Steamy AF! Poonam has gone one step ahead in celebrating Holi in her very own snazzy avatar. She posted a video on her Youtube channel where she is seen playing with colours wearing a bikini.  2 Three Working Women Write An Open Letter To Mira Rajput Is Much Needed In This Time And Age  Dear Mira, We are three working mothers, very busy and pressed for time. Nevertheless, we decided to take some time out and share a different perspective — pro bono since one of us is a lawyer. We have worked pretty much since the day we got our hands on our shiny degrees and we have enjoyed working and success at the workplace.  3 When Gigi Hadid Wore A Hijab For The Cover Of Vogue Arabia  The 21-year-old who is half-Palestinian and half Dutch took to Instagram to share the magazine cover.  4 Ranbir Kapoor Shocked At How Sanjay Dutt Has Lead Such A Difficult Life  Ranbir Kapoor, who is stepping into the shoes of Sanjay Dutt in an upcoming biopic by Rajkumar Hirani, says the film will not gloss over the controversies associated with the actor.  5 Adele Stops Her Performance Mid-Way After Fan Suffers Heart Attack  Grammy winning singer Adele who was in Sydney last night at a concert had to stop her performance mid-way. The 28-year-old woman was forced to cut down her stage show right after a fan collapsed with a cardiac arrest.

1. Poonam Pandey Playing Holi In This Video Is Steamy AF!

Poonam has gone one step ahead in celebrating Holi in her very own snazzy avatar. She posted a video on her Youtube channel where she is seen playing with colours wearing a bikini.

2 Three Working Women Write An Open Letter To Mira Rajput Is Much Needed In This Time And Age

Dear Mira,

We are three working mothers, very busy and pressed for time. Nevertheless, we decided to take some time out and share a different perspective — pro bono since one of us is a lawyer.

We have worked pretty much since the day we got our hands on our shiny degrees and we have enjoyed working and success at the workplace.

3 When Gigi Hadid Wore A Hijab For The Cover Of Vogue Arabia

Instagram/Gigi Hadid

The 21-year-old who is half-Palestinian and half Dutch took to Instagram to share the magazine cover.

4 Ranbir Kapoor Shocked At How Sanjay Dutt Has Lead Such A Difficult Life

Ranbir Kapoor, who is stepping into the shoes of Sanjay Dutt in an upcoming biopic by Rajkumar Hirani, says the film will not gloss over the controversies associated with the actor.

5 Adele Stops Her Performance Mid-Way After Fan Suffers Heart Attack

Grammy winning singer Adele who was in Sydney last night at a concert had to stop her performance mid-way. The 28-year-old woman was forced to cut down her stage show right after a fan collapsed with a cardiac arrest.