17 Life-Changing Beauty Products That Are Worth The Investment
17 Life-Changing Beauty Products That Are Worth The Investment
We LOVE a cheap beauty find, but sometimes paying more really does mean better quality. Dupes just don’t cut it all the time, so we asked the BuzzFeed Community about which pricey beauty products are actually worth the investment ! This OG Beautyblender for a seamless makeup application. “I’m gonna be basic and go with the Beautyblender because to me it is better than the Real Techniques sponge dupe. They’re both amazing in their own ways, but the Beautyblender is just so seamless.” — samrferr7 Get it here for $20. This long-lasting Kat Von D Studded Kiss Lipstick that you don’t have to reapply throughout the day. “Kat Von D’s Studded Kiss Lipsticks are worth every penny. I swipe it on when I’m leaving for work at 7:30 A.M, I don’t have to reapply through breakfast or lunch and it STILL looks perfect when I leave work!” — cupcakesandcats Get them here for $21. And this Benefit Cosmetics Erase Paste Concealer to cover scarring. “Erase Paste by Benefit is $26 for a small container, but a little goes a long way. It’s supposed to be used to brighten dark circles, but I use it as a concealer because it’s so amazing. It covers every pimple, acne scar, and dark spot I’ve ever had. I bought it over a year ago and use it on a regular basis, and I’m only halfway through the container.” — alliec41a11a1d8 Get it here for $26.00. This Urban Decay Complete Coverage Concealer for a flawless finish. “The Urban Decay Naked Skin Weightless Complete Coverage Concealer is just as it says: complete coverage. I used to swear by the Nars Luminous Creamy Concealer, but this truly stands the test of an over eight-hour day.” — samrferr7 Get it here for $28. This Jurlique Balancing Day Care Cream to moisturize and soothe delicate skin. “Jurlique Balancing Day Care Cream. It’s amazing!” — erenah Get it here for $26.94. The Benefit Cosmetics The Porefessional: Mattifying Gel to reduce the appearance of your pores. “Benefit’s The Porefessional Matte Rescue Mattifying Gel is a complete game-changer. I have super oily skin (#italiangirlproblems), and I used to use the Porefessional Primer, matte foundation, setting powder, and setting spray. But after an hour, my face would get oily again. Applying the Matte Rescue before my primer, though, not only minimizes my pores, but it keeps me oil-free all day.” — katiepal514 Get it here for $28. This Dr. Jart+ Water Replenishment Cotton Sheet Mask to give your face a little refresh. “The Dr.Jart+ face masks truly help my skin, and I feel instant results especially after using the Water Replenishment mask.” — samrferr7 Get it here for $7.50 This rich Belif True Cream Moisturizing Bomb for peak moisture. “The True Cream Moisturizing Bomb by Belief is slightly cooling and so creamy. It’s the best moisturizer I’ve ever used by far. It is truly the bomb!” — samrferr7 Get it here for $38. This Rms Beauty Living Luminizer for a most natural glow. “Rms Beauty Living Luminizer is the most perfect natural highlighter I have ever tried, and I love that all of their packaging is recyclable.” — msbist Get it here for $38. And this Glamglow Supermud Clearing Treatment to suck out the impurities from your face. “Many have tried to duplicate Glamglow Supermud. None have succeeded. I die a little inside each time I have to replace a jar, but it’s so worth every penny. It sucks all of the junk out of my massive pores, making them look smaller, and it makes my skin less of a giant oil slick.” — sarahmariee Get it here for $69. This Hourglass N° 28 Primer Serum for a smooth canvas before your makeup. “The price tag seems pretty steep, but this is one of my favorite primers on the market. I purchase the .33oz bottle and it lasts forever. Less is more with this product. It leaves my face feeling silky, and it creates a smooth canvas for foundation etc.” — erickac Get it here for $22. This Tatcha Pure One Step Camellia Cleansing Oil to remove water-proof makeup. “There are two items I love that deserve all of my money. One is the Tatcha oil cleanser. It’s one step and removes all of my waterproof make up in one go. I also really love SK-II sheet masks. They are the Rolls Royce of face masks, and my skin experienced rebirth after using one.” — maryellenp4a134e5ef Get it here for $48. This Dr. Roller for clear and even skin. “Derma rollers are not too expensive, but you’ll need to buy a new one every 4 to 6 months. I’m in my 40s and I’ve been using needle rollers for 15 years, and these are the best. Research how to use them properly, and how to treat your skin afterward. Believe me, this is the best DIY anti-aging tool there is.” — amelia1977 Get it here for $49. This Chantecaille Retinol Intense to zap breakouts super-fast. “Chantecaille Retinol Intense is amazing. My skin typically takes crazy long to heal due to my type one diabetes, and I had a honker of a zit on my chin. I applied a tiny pump of this retinol cream on it for two nights, and it was completely gone when I woke on the third day. I was gobsmacked! No bump, no redness, nothing. Now I use it anywhere I have any skin issue and it cut my healing time down to a fraction of what it used to be. Yes, it’s $140, but it’s good for the entire year at full strength. Past that year, retinol’s efficacy does decrease, but you can still make it stretch a bit. Seriously, it’s beyond worth it.” — flybiknight Get it here for $140. This La Mer Moisturizing Soft Cream for a radiant complexion. “CREAM DE LA MER. SERIOUSLY! I was able to quit my acne medication and I haven’t had a pimple in over a year. Everyone compliments me on my skin now and asks what I’m doing! Plus, it lasts forever. I can’t stress it enough!! So worth it.” — mattiel Get it here for $170. This Mario Badescu Buffering Lotion that helps alleviate acne without drying your skin. “Mario Badescu’s Buffering Lotion is $19 and the bottle is small, but it is FANTASTIC! I have sensitive skin and get really bad cystic acne. Anytime I get one of those painful bastards, I just apply a little buffering lotion to it and it’s gone within the hour—without irritating or drying out my skin the way most acne products do. It’s completely changed my skincare routine.” — alliec41a11a1d8 Get it here for $19. And this Make Moonlight Primer that helps reduce frown lines and keeps your makeup in tact. “Make Moonlight Primer is amazing! It’s $55 but worth every penny. It shields against HEV and and infrared light and helps reduce fine lines. It definitely makes your makeup last throughout the day. Truly worth it!” — mrsh810 Get it here for $55. HERE’S TO INVESTING IN YOUR IMAGE!   19 Investment-Worthy Pairs Of Jeans Under $100    21 Things For People Who Love Black Cats  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

1. This OG Beautyblender for a seamless makeup application.

“I’m gonna be basic and go with the Beautyblender because to me it is waaay better than the Real Techniques sponge dupe. They’re both amazing in their own ways, but the Beautyblender is just so seamless.” —samrferr7

Get it here for $20.