Sean Spicer jokes about Melissa McCarthy impression of him during press briefing
Sean Spicer jokes about Melissa McCarthy impression of him during press briefing
Popular videos    Outrage as care worker avoids jail for theft from Parkinson's sufferer      Netherlands stops Turkish foreign minister's plane from landing      Kristen Stewart discusses 'fluidity of sexuality'      Grandma says she was to blame for viral BBC interview videobombing   Donald Trump ’s spokesman Sean Spicer surprised reporters by making a joke about comedian Melissa McCarthy 's impression of him on NBC show . The White House Press Secretary , responding to a question from the press pack that he appeared to consider trivial, quipped: “Don’t make me make this podium move”, a reference to the routine in which Ms McCarthy lampoons his famously combative style. The underlying premise of the impression is that Mr Spicer often reacts angrily to questions he does not like, and his uncharacteristic good humour had reporters laughing. Read more Sean Spicer tried to make an SNL joke and it was painfully awkward Sean Spicer wore his flag pin badge upside-down and everyone lost it Donald Trump and Sean Spicer tweeted about jobs report too early Mr Spicer made the joke when he was asked why he and the President had tweeted about employment figures within half an hour of the latest figures being released in violation of federal rules. Suggesting reporters had trivialised their reporting, Mr Spicer said: “What I understand is that rule was instituted to deal with market fluctuations. I could be wrong, but I believe that's why it was instituted. "I think tweeting out 'great way to start a Friday, here are the actual numbers that you all have reported' is a bit silly. I mean, don't make me make the podium move.” Melissa impression of Sean Mr Spicer has not enjoyed the easiest relationship with reporters since he became Mr Trump’s official mouthpiece, adopting a combative style towards journalists which mirrors that of the President. Ms McCarthy, an actress and comedian who starred in the film , performed her latest eight-minute spoof of a Spicer press conference last Saturday, savaging journalists for being “losers” who ask “stupid questions” before she picked up her podium and attacked a reporter with it. The skit has also satirised Mr Spicer for hawking Ivanka Trump products, with writing in a review that the sketch goes “right to the jugular”. Trumped! The best cartoons on 'The Donald'               Trumped! The best cartoons on 'The Donald'       Brian Adcock         Dave Brown         Brian Adcock         Dave Brown         Dave Brown         Brian Adcock         Dave Brown         Dave Brown         Dave Brown         Brian Adcock         Dave Brown         Brian Adcock         Dave Brown         Brian Adcock         Dave Brown         Brian Adcock         Dave Brown         Brian Adcock         Brian Adcock         Christian Adams for Daily Telegraph         Martin Rowson for The Guardian         Christian Adams for Daily Telegraph         Morten Morland for The Times         Bob Moran for Daily Telegraph         Christian Adams for Daily Telegraph         Morten Morland for The Times         KAL for The Economist         Martin Rowson for The Guardian   Both Mr Spicer and Mr Trump have repeatedly accused journalists of reporting “fake news” about the new administration. In his first White House briefing, he lambasted journalists for their coverage of the presidential inauguration, accusing them of misreporting the number of people in the crowd. He further antagonised the press when he banned journalists from leading outlets including the BBC and the from attending a recent briefing. There have been reports that Mr Trump regrets hiring the Republican stalwart and that his first choice for the role was his close aide, Kellyanne Conway. More about: Sean Spicer Donald Trump Melissa McCarthy Saturday Night Live Comments

Donald Trump’s spokesman Sean Spicer surprised reporters by making a joke about comedian Melissa McCarthy's impression of him on NBC show Saturday Night Live.

The White House Press Secretary, responding to a question from the press pack that he appeared to consider trivial, quipped: “Don’t make me make this podium move”, a reference to the routine in which Ms McCarthy lampoons his famously combative style.

The underlying premise of the impression is that Mr Spicer often reacts angrily to questions he does not like, and his uncharacteristic good humour had reporters laughing.

Mr Spicer made the joke when he was asked why he and the President had tweeted about employment figures within half an hour of the latest figures being released in violation of federal rules.

Suggesting reporters had trivialised their reporting, Mr Spicer said: “What I understand is that rule was instituted to deal with market fluctuations. I could be wrong, but I believe that's why it was instituted.

"I think tweeting out 'great way to start a Friday, here are the actual numbers that you all have reported' is a bit silly. I mean, don't make me make the podium move.”

Melissa MCarthy's impression of Sean Spicer

Mr Spicer has not enjoyed the easiest relationship with reporters since he became Mr Trump’s official mouthpiece, adopting a combative style towards journalists which mirrors that of the President.

Ms McCarthy, an actress and comedian who starred in the film Bridesmaids, performed her latest eight-minute spoof of a Spicer press conference last Saturday, savaging journalists for being “losers” who ask “stupid questions” before she picked up her podium and attacked a reporter with it.

The skit has also satirised Mr Spicer for hawking Ivanka Trump products, with Vanity Fair writing in a review that the sketch goes “right to the jugular”.

Trumped! The best cartoons on 'The Donald'







28 show all Trumped! The best cartoons on 'The Donald'





















































1/28 Brian Adcock

2/28 Dave Brown

3/28 Brian Adcock

4/28 Dave Brown

5/28 Dave Brown

6/28 Brian Adcock

7/28 Dave Brown

8/28 Dave Brown

9/28 Dave Brown

10/28 Brian Adcock

11/28 Dave Brown

12/28 Brian Adcock

13/28 Dave Brown

14/28 Brian Adcock

15/28 Dave Brown

16/28 Brian Adcock

17/28 Dave Brown

18/28 Brian Adcock

19/28 Brian Adcock

20/28 Christian Adams for Daily Telegraph

21/28 Martin Rowson for The Guardian

22/28 Christian Adams for Daily Telegraph

23/28 Morten Morland for The Times

24/28 Bob Moran for Daily Telegraph

25/28 Christian Adams for Daily Telegraph

26/28 Morten Morland for The Times

27/28 KAL for The Economist

28/28 Martin Rowson for The Guardian

Both Mr Spicer and Mr Trump have repeatedly accused journalists of reporting “fake news” about the new administration.

In his first White House briefing, he lambasted journalists for their coverage of the presidential inauguration, accusing them of misreporting the number of people in the crowd.

He further antagonised the press when he banned journalists from leading outlets including the BBC and the New York Times from attending a recent briefing.

There have been reports that Mr Trump regrets hiring the Republican stalwart and that his first choice for the role was his close aide, Kellyanne Conway.