7 simple money-saving hacks that could save you THOUSANDS
The lifestyle hacks that will save you thousands of pounds A YEAR


Saving money can often mean cutting back on things you love - but these expert tips prove that doesn't need to be the case.

The surprisingly simple lifestyle hacks from Quidco can help you save thousands of pounds a year without sacrificing your lifestyle.

From stockpiling discounted goods to buying coats in summer, some of the handy hints focus on savvier shopping habits.Others are as straightforward as asking big brands for a better deal.

Money expert Cathal Wogan, from Quidco, said: 'Many of us want to be able to count our savings in pounds rather than pennies but don't know where to start.

'There's no magic to it we've picked out some secrets to help people buy better. With smart shopping, those pounds can quickly add up to savings of thousands over the course of a year.'

Here, FEMAIL rounds up the seven best tips...

Savvy shopping: Making the most of seasonal sales can help keep your bank balance healthy

BUY CLOTHES OUT OF SEASON

It might be hard to think of winter in spring, but planning ahead seasonally can help you save a bundle on clothes and shoes.

A £100 winter coat could be down to £50 in spring as retailers clear stock, so thinking ahead to what you'll need in nine months time will reap major rewards.

If you can train yourself to think ahead to summer wear in the autumn, you'll see that the clearance sale prices can leave you with money in your pocket.

STOCKPILE WHEN THE PRICE IS RIGHT

If you see a good deal on something you'll use, it's often cost-effective to stockpile.

Buying more will therefore increase your savings in the long term as you use your discounted purchases even when that item goes back to its standard price.

Cathal explained: 'Take for example a family using two £1 tins of tomatoes in a big weekly pasta dish. That's £104 of tinned tomatoes, so stockpiling those tins when they're available at half price could put £52 back into the family finances every year.

'You can do this with non-perishable food goods, but also other items like cleaning and personal hygiene products, which are regularly heavily discounted. Just make sure to do the maths.'

Bulk buying: Shopping discounted goods can be an easy way to make your money go further

ASK FOR DISCOUNTS

It might sound too good to be true, but you would be surprised how often you can get a discount if you just ask.

This is especially true with big-name chains like phone shops, and homewares and electricals outlets, where flexible discounting can often be part of their retail policies.

GET FREEBIE GROCERIES In-store offers can help you save on your weekly shop, but your receipts could help you save hundreds of pounds too. Apps such as ClickSnap feature grocery discounts and even freebies. It works by refunding the cost of certain goods after you upload a picture of your receipt, with dozens of different promotional offers every week.

DON'T BE AFRAID TO PRAISE AND COMPLAIN

Companies love when the people who enjoy their products tell them about it.

If you just send a letter to the freepost address of the manufacturer, they will often send you goodies or vouchers to say thank you. The same goes for advocating for your favourite products and services on social media, as it's not unusual for them to get back to you to say thanks with some freebies.

CHECK FOR A CASHBACK DEAL

On top of discounts, there is a cashback deal to be found on nearly everything we buy online. If you shop through Quidco you can commonly get 5 per cent, 10 per cent or more in cashback on whatever you buy. With average annual savings of £305, it's a money-saving habit worth picking up.

START A SAVINGS ACCOUNT

Starting a savings account can fall down the list of priorities for many of us because the returns might not immediately be huge. But very few people know how to get big cash bonuses when they start a savings account.