Two fans crushed to death at Argentina concert
Two fans crushed to death at Argentina pop concert attended by 300,000


At least two people have died and dozens injured after being crushed at a pop concert attended by an estimated 300,000 people in Argentina.

The tragedy happened on Saturday night at an Indio Solari concert at La Colmens in the Buenos Aires town of Olavarría.

Two victims - both men - have been confirmed, while local reports say that the death toll may be higher. One of the men was crushed to death, while the other died of cardiac arrest, local reports say.

The men have not been publicly named, but it is believed that neither of them are from Olavarría and that one of them is 42 years old.

At least two people died last night at an Indio Solari concert at La Colmens in the Buenos Aires, Argentina, town of Olavarría, when crowds of 300,000 began pushing toward the stage

People at the concert have described the scene as chaotic, with people pushing to get into the concert after it had started and several people collapsing because they appeared to be drunk

Hospital sources told 20 Minutos that seven minors and three adults have been hospitalised, with one woman in intensive care.

People at the concert have described the scene as chaotic, with people pushing to get into the concert after it had started and several people collapsing because they appeared to be drunk.

Those killed or injured were caught up in what is being described as 'an avalanche' of people pushing forward towards the stage barriers.

There are also reports that there were around 300,000 fans at the concert, which started at 10pm, when the maximum capacity was 200,000.

Witnesses at the show said the singer, Carlos Alberto Solari, tried on several occasions to warn revelers in the front rows and at one stage stopped the concert to try to handle the crowds.

Solari, 68, apparently tried to get people to stop pushing toward the front and stopped his performance more than once to deal with the situation.

Singer Indio Solari (right, with a bandmate), 68, apparently tried to get people to stop pushing toward the front and stopped his performance more than once to deal with the situation

Two victims - both men - have been confirmed, while local reports say that the death toll may be higher. One of the men was crushed to death, while the other died of cardiac arrest, local reports say

A concertgoer recalls Solari saying that seven guys were causing a raucous in the crowd.

'Someone has to go get them out,' he told the crowd.

The singer first stopped the concert after his first song to tell the crowd off and then asked for the lights to go up and more security staff.

The show was stopped indefinitely within half an hour of starting, when Solari halted the show again during his third song, according to Diario Uno.

At the time, he said from the stage that about 20 people were on the ground, pressed against the fences.

'They must be drunk, do not step on them,' he told the crowd.

Video of the concert on social media shows thousands of fans watching as Solari stopped his show multiple times.

The event was so crowded that fans were standing on portable toilets to get better views of the stage

Fans climbed scaffolding to get views of the stage. Those killed or injured were caught up in what is being described as 'an avalanche' of people pushing forward towards the stage barrier

Saturday night's concert was organized by Solari's producer and the municipality of Olavarría. Private security had been hired for the event.

Witnesses said that Olavarría medical response teams handled the situation quickly, treating dozens of bruised and slightly injured people on the scene.

The doors to the concert venue, which had been left muddy due to recent rains, opened an hour early to facilitate large crowds.

Susana Alonso, a prosecutor for Olavarría, told La Nacion that there were unlimited ticket sales to the event, and many people came without tickets.

She said that there is an ongoing investigation into the concert and what happened during the crush.

Along with those hospitalised for injuries, others sought medical attention for drug overdoses and intoxication.

Solari, one of Argentina's best known singers, songwriters and musicians, led the rock and roll band Patricio Rey and his Redonditos de Ricota with fellow musician Skay Beilinson.