Kellyanne Conway Blasts 'Haters' for Sexist Criticism

Kellyanne Conway Blasts 'Haters' for Sexist Criticism // // // President Donald Trump's Senior Counselor Kellyanne Conway joined "MediaBuzz" to talk about facing sexist criticism. The New York Times published a piece this past week discussing the flack Conway receives because she is a high-profile woman. "What powerful political woman is mocked for her clothes, is the target of pictures on Twitter depicting her as haggard and is routinely called a witch and a bitch? If you guessed Hillary Clinton, you’re right. But if you guessed Kellyanne Conway, you’re right, too." Conway said she felt heartened by the article and added she often tries to ignore any coverage of her specifically. "I'm there to serve the president who's there to serve the American people," she said. "I'm not there to read about myself." Conway of course discussed the now infamous photo showing her kneeling on an Oval Office couch . She also responded to critics of what she called her "haggard" appearances on television by saying she is often up late at night helping her children with their schoolwork. Watch the full interview with Howard Kurtz above.

President Donald Trump's Senior Counselor Kellyanne Conway joined "MediaBuzz" to talk about facing sexist criticism.

The New York Times published a piece this past week discussing the flack Conway receives because she is a high-profile woman.

"What powerful political woman is mocked for her clothes, is the target of pictures on Twitter depicting her as haggard and is routinely called a witch and a bitch? If you guessed Hillary Clinton, you’re right. But if you guessed Kellyanne Conway, you’re right, too."

Conway said she felt heartened by the article and added she often tries to ignore any coverage of her specifically.

"I'm there to serve the president who's there to serve the American people," she said. "I'm not there to read about myself."

Conway of course discussed the now infamous photo showing her kneeling on an Oval Office couch.

She also responded to critics of what she called her "haggard" appearances on television by saying she is often up late at night helping her children with their schoolwork.

Watch the full interview with Howard Kurtz above.

WATCH: Scarlett Johansson Stars as Ivanka Trump in 'SNL' Perfume Ad

Kellyanne Conway: New Travel Ban 'Will Pass Legal Muster'

Proud Mom Julia Louis-Dreyfus Cheers On Her Son at NCAA B-Ball Game