Kyle Busch, Joey Logano Involved in Fight at NASCAR at Las Vegas Race
Kyle Busch, Joey Logano Involved in Fight at NASCAR at Las Vegas Race
It's only the third race of the 2017 Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series schedule, but tempers between Kyle Busch and Joey Logano have already reached a boiling point. Writer Jeff Gluck shared video of Busch and Logano involved in a physical altercation following Sunday's Kobalt 400: Kyle Busch is bleeding after a skirmish in the pits. #Kobalt400 https://t.co/pj56QVM3Ml "That's how Joey races. He's gonna get it."- @KyleBusch after the altercation in Vegas with the No. 22 crew. #NASCAR https://t.co/GEOtnXrQZf Busch finished in 22nd place. He had been running fourth before making contact with Logano on the last lap of the race. Logano appeared to lose control momentarily and bumped into the side of the No. 18 car. Logano wound up in fourth place as he crossed the finish line. Logano provided his side in a post-race interview with Fox Sports (h/t NASCAR Talk's Dustin Long ): In 2016, Gluck wrote NASCAR amended its rules regarding fights between drivers and that "h may merit only a mandatory meeting with NASCAR officials or possible probation. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Jerry Markland/Getty Images

It's only the third race of the 2017 Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series schedule, but tempers between Kyle Busch and Joey Logano have already reached a boiling point.

Writer Jeff Gluck shared video of Busch and Logano involved in a physical altercation following Sunday's Kobalt 400:

NASCAR on NBC shared a shot from the aftermath that shows blood on Busch's forehead:

Fox Sports provided Busch's comments after the incident:

Busch finished in 22nd place. He had been running fourth before making contact with Logano on the last lap of the race. Logano appeared to lose control momentarily and bumped into the side of the No. 18 car. Logano wound up in fourth place as he crossed the finish line.

Logano provided his side in a post-race interview with Fox Sports (h/t NASCAR Talk's Dustin Long):

Kyle and I usually race well together, we usually don't have any issues. He tried to pin me down in the corner underneath Brad. I about crashed on entry and I was trying to gather it up by the center and I was going to spin out and so I'm trying to chase it up [the track] and he was there. It was nothing intentional but obviously he thinks that. We'll move on.

In 2016, Gluck wrote NASCAR amended its rules regarding fights between drivers and that "heat of the moment actions" may merit only a mandatory meeting with NASCAR officials or possible probation.