Nicki Minaj And Aretha Franklin Are Now Tied For The Most Hot 100 Songs By A Woman
Nicki Minaj And Aretha Franklin Are Now Tied For The Most Hot 100 Songs By A Woman
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Hugh McIntyre       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Images: Getty. Design: Hayley C. Cuccinello (FORBES staff) Nicki Minaj and Aretha Franklin are now tied for the most Hot 100 entries by a female artist. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Images: Getty. Design: Hayley C. Cuccinello (FORBES staff)

This week on the Hot 100, Nicki Minaj makes another appearance as a featured artist on Gucci Mane's "Make Love." With this latest chart topper, Minaj has matched one of the greatest artists of all time.

According to Billboard, Minaj is now tied with the Queen of Soul, Aretha Franklin, for the most Hot 100 chart entries among women. Both artists have managed to score 73 different songs on the chart, which measures the most popular songs of any genre in the U.S. during any given week.

Minaj's owes most of her 73 Hot 100 hits to featured verses on other's songs, while Aretha Franklin racked up all of hers as the lead act. Given Minaj's current pace on the Hot 100, it is only a matter of weeks before she passes Franklin for good and becomes the woman with the most appearances on the chart. The “Super Bass” rapper is expected to release a new album at some point this year, but she will likely nab a 74th chart topper before then.

Watch On FORBES

Just recently, Minaj was tied in second place with another superstar, but she didn't have to share the spotlight for long. Back in December, Taylor Swift tied Minaj with her 70th chart topper, the Fifty Shades Darker soundtrack cut of “I Don’t Wanna Live Forever." While Swift's song is still doing well on the Hot 100, Minaj has surpassed her with Hot 100 hits, many of which have quickly fallen off the charts.

Taylor Swift still occupies second place with 70 Hot 100 entries, but soon she’ll be knocked to third when Minaj moves into first place and Aretha Franklin slips to second. Again, this placement likely won’t be for very long, as there are rumors that the country-turned-pop-star topper has new music slated for later in 2017. If she releases a full album, she will quickly blow past Franklin, and potentially even Minaj.