Maluma Leaves His Soul at a Sold-Out Concert in Miami: 'It Is an Honor to Be Here'
Maluma Leaves His Soul at a Sold-Out Concert in Miami: 'It Is an Honor to Be Here'
Maluma Leaves His Soul at a Sold-Out Concert in Miami: 'It Is an Honor to Be Here'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  This weekend, Colombian superstar Maluma arrived in Miami to perform at the Fillmore Miami Beach as part of hisÂ world tour , his first-ever stop in the U.S. The singer, backed by a live band, two backup vocalists and six dancers, kicked off the show performing four of his greatest hits: "Borro Cassette," " Sin Contrato ," "El Perdedor" and "La Curiosidad."Â  The sound was perfect, and the lighting effects raised the show to another level. "It is an honor and a pride to be here with you," he said, immediately thankingÂ his fans in the audience, which included millennials, families, couples and even a grandmother with binoculars because she did not wanted to miss a single detail of the concert.Â  Maluma made itÂ clear that he also possesses impressive vocal quality. There were moments in which he came out of his usual genre to sing salsa, and he even performed songs a cappella, reaching high notes thatÂ most of the urban acts can't get. His talent really excelledÂ when he performed "Vente Pa' Ca," Â a song on which he originally collaborates with Ricky Martin . He did not need to pause in the parts played by the Boricua singerÂ because he handled it to perfection with his own voice. The most exciting moment of the night was when he serenaded a fan. "I'm feeling more romantic than the usual tonight," he said. HeÂ proceeded to ask his production team to find a "mamacita" to whom he couldÂ personally dedicate the song "Vuelo Hacia el Olvido." The Colombian heartbreaker seduced his fan until he stole a kiss, as seen in the clip below. --#maluma serenades and kissed a fan A post shared by Billboard Latin (@billboardlatin) on The concert also included special guests such as Piso 21, Pipe Bueno and Noriel, and concluded with the controversial song "Four Babys," which their fans shouted after feeling that the show was reaching its end. For the Colombian singer, to be touring the U.S. is a dream come true. "I turned 23 years old two months ago. I have a whole life ahead of me, much to learn, much to live, but always with my family [I'm] very present. And you, my fans, are part of my family. Thank you so much for everything," he concluded. Maluma's tour continues Sunday in Atlanta and will visit Chicago, New York, Washington, Boston, Dallas, Las Vegas, San Jose and Los Angeles. Â  Â Watch more videos from the concert below. @maluma second sold-out in #Miami #malumausatour A post shared by Billboard Latin (@billboardlatin) on Â @maluma + @piso21music #malumausatour #mellamas A post shared by Billboard Latin (@billboardlatin) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

This weekend, Colombian superstar Maluma arrived in Miami to perform at the Fillmore Miami Beach as part of hisÂ world tour, his first-ever stop in the U.S.

The singer, backed by a live band, two backup vocalists and six dancers, kicked off the show performing four of his greatest hits: "Borro Cassette," "Sin Contrato," "El Perdedor" and "La Curiosidad."Â The sound was perfect, and the lighting effects raised the show to another level.

"It is an honor and a pride to be here with you," he said, immediately thankingÂ his fans in the audience, which included millennials, families, couples and even a grandmother with binoculars because she did not wanted to miss a single detail of the concert.Â

Maluma made itÂ clear that he also possesses impressive vocal quality. There were moments in which he came out of his usual genre to sing salsa, and he even performed songs a cappella, reaching high notes thatÂ most of the urban acts can't get. His talent really excelledÂ when he performed "Vente Pa' Ca," Â a song on which he originally collaborates with Ricky Martin. He did not need to pause in the parts played by the Boricua singerÂ because he handled it to perfection with his own voice.

The most exciting moment of the night was when he serenaded a fan. "I'm feeling more romantic than the usual tonight," he said. HeÂ proceeded to ask his production team to find a "mamacita" to whom he couldÂ personally dedicate the song "Vuelo Hacia el Olvido." The Colombian heartbreaker seduced his fan until he stole a kiss, as seen in the clip below.

Â --#maluma serenades and kissed a fan A post shared by Billboard Latin (@billboardlatin) on Mar 11, 2017 at 7:23pm PST

The concert also included special guests such as Piso 21, Pipe Bueno and Noriel, and concluded with the controversial song "Four Babys," which their fans shouted after feeling that the show was reaching its end.

For the Colombian singer, to be touring the U.S. is a dream come true. "I turned 23 years old two months ago. I have a whole life ahead of me, much to learn, much to live, but always with my family [I'm] very present. And you, my fans, are part of my family. Thank you so much for everything," he concluded.

Maluma's tour continues Sunday in Atlanta and will visit Chicago, New York, Washington, Boston, Dallas, Las Vegas, San Jose and Los Angeles. Â Â

Watch more videos from the concert below.

Â @maluma second sold-out in #Miami #malumausatour A post shared by Billboard Latin (@billboardlatin) on Mar 11, 2017 at 6:45pm PST

Â