Northeast blizzard could dump 18 inches of snow on New York
Northeast blizzard could dump 18 inches of snow on New York
Shares                The Northeast is bracing for winter's last hurrah — a blizzard expected to sweep the New York region starting Monday with possibly the season's biggest snowstorm dumping up to 18 inches on Central Park. The National Weather Service issued a blizzard watch Sunday for coastal regions including New York City and surrounding areas of Long Island, Westchester County and Connecticut. A winter storm watch was in effect for a larger area of the Northeast: New Jersey , Pennsylvania and New England. In New York City, forecasters said the first snow is expected late Monday or just after midnight Tuesday, with up to 4 inches falling by dawn. Heavy snow the rest of the day could pile 10 to 14 inches more of white stuff, with sustained winds of about 30 mph and wind gusts of up to 50 mph. "This would certainly be the biggest snowstorm of the 2017 winter season in New York City," said Faye Barthold, a weather service meteorologist based on Long Island. On Long Island, a snowfall of 12 to 18 inches was forecast along with equally strong winds and visibility of a quarter mile or less. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Sunday that the New York State Emergency Operations Center will be activated Monday evening, with stockpiles of sandbags, generators and pumps at the ready, as well as snow-removal vehicles and salt spreaders. The New York City Department of Sanitation is taking similar action and also notifying additional workers to supplement staff if needed. Once the nor'easter hits, motorists in New York state can call 511 or access www.511ny.org to check on road conditions and transit information. Other areas, including the lower Hudson Valley and northeastern New Jersey, also could get 12 to 18 inches of snow. But those areas were not under a blizzard watch because high winds and low visibility were not expected. The severe weather would arrive just a week after the region saw temperatures climb into the 60s. Sunny days and T-shirt-wearing temperatures made it seem like winter had made an early exit. But the chilly weather and snow some areas got Friday may prove to be just a teaser. Shares                  Northeast blizzard could dump 18 inches of snow on New York   Top Democrat: Trump's dismissal of US attorney Preet Bharara raises 'a lot of questions'   House committee wants evidence for Trump's wiretap claim   Turkish leader says Dutch will 'pay the price' for insult   Who and why, twin mysteries behind leak of CIA's cybertools   Cold snap threatens cherry blossom bloom in DC   Female jogger uses self-defense tactics to stop assault   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Interval training may have anti-aging benefits, study finds   Safety official wants rail cars replaced faster after fire   Mother plans to file claim over son's killing by police   Turkey-Dutch relations shatter after Turkish visits banned   American aid group braves sniper fire, explosions amid Iraqi battle with ISIS   Death toll in Guatemala fire rises to 39 girls   Winter strikes back: Cold hits the East Coast with a blizzard on the way   How Russians view the drama unfolding in Washington   Melania Trump begins to embrace new role as first lady   Richard Gere in Israel criticizes settlements   Girl writes letter to the thief who robbed her family's home   3-year-old girl dies after fire blamed on recharging hoverboard   'Billions' creators react to the firing of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara   'Beauty and the Beast'-inspired travel spots

The Northeast is bracing for winter's last hurrah — a blizzard expected to sweep the New York region starting Monday with possibly the season's biggest snowstorm dumping up to 18 inches on Central Park.

The National Weather Service issued a blizzard watch Sunday for coastal regions including New York City and surrounding areas of Long Island, Westchester County and Connecticut.

A winter storm watch was in effect for a larger area of the Northeast: New Jersey, Pennsylvania and New England.

In New York City, forecasters said the first snow is expected late Monday or just after midnight Tuesday, with up to 4 inches falling by dawn. Heavy snow the rest of the day could pile 10 to 14 inches more of white stuff, with sustained winds of about 30 mph and wind gusts of up to 50 mph.

"This would certainly be the biggest snowstorm of the 2017 winter season in New York City," said Faye Barthold, a weather service meteorologist based on Long Island.

On Long Island, a snowfall of 12 to 18 inches was forecast along with equally strong winds and visibility of a quarter mile or less.

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Sunday that the New York State Emergency Operations Center will be activated Monday evening, with stockpiles of sandbags, generators and pumps at the ready, as well as snow-removal vehicles and salt spreaders.

The New York City Department of Sanitation is taking similar action and also notifying additional workers to supplement staff if needed.

Once the nor'easter hits, motorists in New York state can call 511 or access www.511ny.org to check on road conditions and transit information.

Other areas, including the lower Hudson Valley and northeastern New Jersey, also could get 12 to 18 inches of snow. But those areas were not under a blizzard watch because high winds and low visibility were not expected.

The severe weather would arrive just a week after the region saw temperatures climb into the 60s. Sunny days and T-shirt-wearing temperatures made it seem like winter had made an early exit. But the chilly weather and snow some areas got Friday may prove to be just a teaser.