Syria: Al Qaeda-linked group claims responsibility for Damascus attacks



Syria: Al Qaeda-linked group claims responsibility for Damascus attacks

Posted

An al Qaeda-linked group has claimed responsibility for two suicide attacks in the capital Damascus that killed and injured dozens of Shiite visitors near religious shrines.

At least 40 people were killed and 120 injured, mostly Iraqis, according to Syrian and Iraqi officials.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a British-based war monitor, increased its estimated death toll to 74.

Conflicting casualty estimates are common in the aftermath of violence in Syria.

The attack took place at a bus station where the pilgrims had been brought to visit the nearby Bab al-Saghir cemetery, named after one of the seven gates of the Old City of Damascus.

The cemetery is one of the capital's oldest and is where several prominent religious figures are buried.

The Levant Liberation Committee, also known as Hayat Tahrir al Sham, said in a statement that the attack was carried out by two of its suicide attackers, claiming that they targeted pro-Iranian and pro-government militiamen.

The al-Qaida-linked group said the blasts were a message to Iran, a main backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad.

"Iran and its militias have, from the start of the revolution, supported the tyrannical and criminal regime and have been killing and displacing our people," the statement said.

Syrian alliance of jihadist groups, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, was created from a merger of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham — formerly al Qaeda's Nusra Front — and several other groups.

The jihadist alliance, which is not linked to Islamic State, includes some of the most hardline rebel elements fighting President Assad.

In the six-year-old Syrian civil war, Mr Assad is fighting against rebels, who are mainly Sunni Muslim, with the support of Iranian-backed Shiite militias from countries including Iraq, Afghanistan and Lebanon.

Many rebel groups say Iranian-backed militias are trying to evict Sunnis from around Damascus and other areas that are strategically important in the war.

The attacks came two weeks after members of the same group stormed two different security offices in the central city of Homs, killing and wounding scores of people, including a top Syrian security official.

Reuters/AP

Topics: unrest-conflict-and-war, terrorism, syrian-arab-republic