Lakers General Manager Rob Pelinka Reportedly Spoke to Kobe Bryant About Helping the Team
Lakers General Manager Rob Pelinka Reportedly Spoke to Kobe Bryant About Helping the Team
Even though Bryant is nearing the one-year anniversary of his final game in the purple and gold, his love for the game of basketball hasn't died down. While his body may not be physically capable of taking the daily grind that comes with playing a full NBA season, his wisdom and competitive spirit could be put to good use by this new Lakers regime lacking plenty of front office experience. Back in January, it was reported that Bryant reached out to Lakers head coach Luke Walton about helping him out in some capacity. Walton may not have been quite receptive to the offer then, but with five championship rings to his name, Kobe could definitely provide some sort of help down the road. It may even come before this season comes to an end. Stay tuned.  sportstips@complex.com

Could there be a job with the Los Angeles Lakers on the horizon for Kobe Bryant? If there's anyone who could possibly talk Bryant into it, it would be his former agent and new Lakers general manager Rob Pelinka, who was recently hired after Magic Johnson took over as the franchise's president of basketball operations.

According to Los Angeles Daily News beat writer Mark Medina, Pelinka admits that Bryant will "absolutely" have some sort of role with the organization. What exactly will that be remains to be seen since the Black Mamba seems determined to grow his various off-the-court ventures. In the press conference introducing Pelinka as the Lakers' new GM, Magic told reporters that he and Pelinka were going to have dinner with Kobe to "talk basketball."

Even though Bryant is nearing the one-year anniversary of his final game in the purple and gold, his love for the game of basketball hasn't died down. While his body may not be physically capable of taking the daily grind that comes with playing a full NBA season, his wisdom and competitive spirit could be put to good use by this new Lakers regime lacking plenty of front office experience.

Back in January, it was reported that Bryant reached out to Lakers head coach Luke Walton about helping him out in some capacity. Walton may not have been quite receptive to the offer then, but with five championship rings to his name, Kobe could definitely provide some sort of help down the road. It may even come before this season comes to an end. Stay tuned.



Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.