Heartbreaking Death Rocks 'The Vampire Diaries' Series Finale
Heartbreaking Death Rocks 'The Vampire Diaries' Series Finale
“ The Vampire Diaries ” showrunner Julie Plec told The Huffington Post that she and co-creator Kevin Williamson wanted the series finale to be both open-ended and set in stone, and after watching the episode unfurl, they accomplished just that. The finale, titled “I Was Feeling Epic,” was a heartbreaker , as former characters came back to say their final farewells, including Elena (Nina Dobrev), who was finally able to reunite with her one true love, Damon (Ian Somerhalder), after Bonnie figured out how to reverse the curse linking her life to Elena’s. But the biggest, most devastating blow came when it was revealed that Stefan (Paul Wesley) made the ultimate sacrifice in order for his brother to have that epic reunion with Elena. He gave up a life with his new wife Caroline (Candice King) to give Damon, Elena, and his loved ones happiness. “We’ve had people die and come back to life, but there’s no coming back [now],” Wesley told HuffPost ahead of the finale. “This is the final episode, so whoever dies here is dead. I think that’s the difference.” The finale wrapped up many storylines, including the fate of all the couples. Although Bonnie and Enzo (Michael Malarkey), as well as Caroline and Stefan, don’t end up together, it’s known that, one day, they’ll be reunited again. Damon and Elena, however, tie the knot and live happily ever after, as humans ― eventually reuniting with their families. Bonnie travels; Matt (Zach Roerig) stays in Mystic Falls; Alaric (Matthew Davis) and Caroline raise their girls; all is well. As for whether or not a spinoff or revival could be a possibility, Plec won’t rule it out. The show alluded to the idea that Caroline and Klaus (Joseph Morgan) could reunite, as he donated millions to the newly opened Salvatore boarding school. “I can’t make any promises for many reasons: One, because we don’t have a fifth season of ‘The Originals.’ Two, because while I love the world of the boarding school and all that it represents, that would be an entirely new show that I haven’t even begun to think about, but the doors were not left open unintentionally,” Plec told Entertainment Weekly . “I don’t have that plan right now,” she told HuffPost of a future “TVD” installment, “it’s just something that’s always living in the back of my brain as a future opportunity.” For now, we say so long, Mystic Falls. But, perhaps, we’ll see you again soon. ALSO ON HUFFPOST 14 TV Shows Netflix Should Remake       Share this slide:       MORE:

Warning: Spoilers ahead for “The Vampire Diaries” series finale, “I Was Feeling Epic.”

“The Vampire Diaries” showrunner Julie Plec told The Huffington Post that she and co-creator Kevin Williamson wanted the series finale to be both open-ended and set in stone, and after watching the episode unfurl, they accomplished just that.

The finale, titled “I Was Feeling Epic,” was a heartbreaker, as former characters came back to say their final farewells, including Elena (Nina Dobrev), who was finally able to reunite with her one true love, Damon (Ian Somerhalder), after Bonnie figured out how to reverse the curse linking her life to Elena’s.

But the biggest, most devastating blow came when it was revealed that Stefan (Paul Wesley) made the ultimate sacrifice in order for his brother to have that epic reunion with Elena. He gave up a life with his new wife Caroline (Candice King) to give Damon, Elena, and his loved ones happiness.

“We’ve had people die and come back to life, but there’s no coming back [now],” Wesley told HuffPost ahead of the finale. “This is the final episode, so whoever dies here is dead. I think that’s the difference.”

The finale wrapped up many storylines, including the fate of all the couples. Although Bonnie and Enzo (Michael Malarkey), as well as Caroline and Stefan, don’t end up together, it’s known that, one day, they’ll be reunited again. Damon and Elena, however, tie the knot and live happily ever after, as humans ― eventually reuniting with their families. Bonnie travels; Matt (Zach Roerig) stays in Mystic Falls; Alaric (Matthew Davis) and Caroline raise their girls; all is well.

As for whether or not a spinoff or revival could be a possibility, Plec won’t rule it out. The show alluded to the idea that Caroline and Klaus (Joseph Morgan) could reunite, as he donated millions to the newly opened Salvatore boarding school.

“I can’t make any promises for many reasons: One, because we don’t have a fifth season of ‘The Originals.’ Two, because while I love the world of the boarding school and all that it represents, that would be an entirely new show that I haven’t even begun to think about, but the doors were not left open unintentionally,” Plec told Entertainment Weekly.

“I don’t have that plan right now,” she told HuffPost of a future “TVD” installment, “it’s just something that’s always living in the back of my brain as a future opportunity.”