Here Are Some Quick Hacks To Protect Your Hair And Skin During This Holi Season
Here Are Some Quick Hacks To Protect Your Hair And Skin During This Holi Season
Here Are Some Quick Hacks To Protect Your Hair And Skin During This Holi Season Yes! Holi is the festival of colours and admit it or not, it is those colours, pichkaris, water balloons that one cannot do without on this festival of colours. But along with the fun comes a set of irritations and allergies that can damage your skin and hair. So just in case, you are shying away from this festival - to keep yourself away from the drill of taking off colour and restoring your colour damaged skin and hair, do not. We bring you a list of a few Holi hacks that will protect your skin and hair during this fun-filled festival of Holi. 1. Moisture your skin well before going out If your skin texture is dry, start moisturising it until the skin texture returns to normal. Dry skin will make the colour stick to your skin. It's easier to take off the colour from a well-moisturised skin. 2. Wear clothes that cover your skin and hair To protect your skin safe from colours, try wearing clothes that cover your entire body so that there is minimum exposure. Not only will it keep you off those colours, it will protect you from the sun and prevent you getting a sunstroke. 3. Apply oil Apply coconut oil on your face, neck, ears, hands and legs before you step out to play colours. The oil forms a layer on your skin and helps the colour come off easily. Coconut Oil is gentle and hydrating and one of the best alternatives to makeup remover as well. Do not worry if your skin is oily, coconut oil is useful for cleansing on all skin types. Make sure to rinse off coconut oil from your face, body with cold water or mild body wash. For your hair, use coconut oil to cleanse your scalp and hair, and wash off with your regular shampoo and condition. 4. Wear that bandana Do not keep your hair open, tie it up and cover it with a bandana so that lesser area of your hair is exposed to colour. This will prevent your hair from damage due to colour.

Yes! Holi is the festival of colours and admit it or not, it is those colours, pichkaris, water balloons that one cannot do without on this festival of colours.

hdwallpeper/Representational Image

But along with the fun comes a set of irritations and allergies that can damage your skin and hair. So just in case, you are shying away from this festival - to keep yourself away from the drill of taking off colour and restoring your colour damaged skin and hair, do not.

We bring you a list of a few Holi hacks that will protect your skin and hair during this fun-filled festival of Holi.

1. Moisture your skin well before going out

skincare/Representational Image

If your skin texture is dry, start moisturising it until the skin texture returns to normal. Dry skin will make the colour stick to your skin. It's easier to take off the colour from a well-moisturised skin.

2. Wear clothes that cover your skin and hair

hdwallpaper/Representational Image

To protect your skin safe from colours, try wearing clothes that cover your entire body so that there is minimum exposure. Not only will it keep you off those colours, it will protect you from the sun and prevent you getting a sunstroke.

3. Apply oil

Representational Image

Apply coconut oil on your face, neck, ears, hands and legs before you step out to play colours. The oil forms a layer on your skin and helps the colour come off easily. Coconut Oil is gentle and hydrating and one of the best alternatives to makeup remover as well. Do not worry if your skin is oily, coconut oil is useful for cleansing on all skin types. Make sure to rinse off coconut oil from your face, body with cold water or mild body wash. For your hair, use coconut oil to cleanse your scalp and hair, and wash off with your regular shampoo and condition.

4. Wear that bandana

Do not keep your hair open, tie it up and cover it with a bandana so that lesser area of your hair is exposed to colour. This will prevent your hair from damage due to colour.

Don't Miss 249 SHARES 64.6 K SHARES 38.2 K SHARES 56.1 K SHARES

5. Paint your nails

Youtube/Representational Image

To prevent your nails from being coloured black, blue and red, make sure to paint your nails. Nail paint will protect your nails. Once you get rid of the nail paint, you will have clean nails, devoid of Holi colours.

6. Only organic colours

Organic colours are a must during Holi. This will prevent you from getting a rash or developing any skin allergies that is generally associated with colours that are not organic. Organic colours are also easy to remove and don't damage your skin.

7. Use lemon and cold milk

BCCL

Lemon is a natural bleaching agent. After you have had your share of fun and colour, make sure to rub lemon wedges dipped in milk on one’s face and body.

Moisturise your skin thoroughly after lemon is applied. You can also use a toner as it will help you reduce the chemical change in your skin from Holi colours.

8. Avoid contact lenses

The best way to protect your eyes is to opt for spectacles instead of contact lenses. Wearing glasses will help you avoid colour from getting into your eyes. Contact lenses, on the other hand, will absorb the colours. So make sure to grab an old pair of sunglasses or spectacles, lest you end up damaging your eyes.

9. Keep hydrated

hdwallpaper/Representational Image

Keeping oneself hydrated while you play, is one of the keys to protecting your skin on a hot Holi Day. Keep drinking water and juices as dehydration causes the skin to dry and combined with harsh chemicals, the colour might seep into the skin.