Nettles and other 'thuggish' plants forcing out endangered wildflowers
Nettles and other 'thuggish' plants forcing out endangered wildflowers 
ettles and other "thuggish" plants are overpowering Britain's wildflowers as a result of air pollution, new research suggests. Conservation experts say nitrogen emissions are having a "devastating impact" on UK wildflowers and landscapes, posing a greater threat than climate change. The study by nature charity Plantlife says more than one third of  flowering plants are now under threat from pollution. Emissions from transport, power stations, farming and industry are deposited back into the natural environment directly from the air, or in the rain, over-fertilising the soil. The pollution creates nutrient-rich soils which allow "thuggish" plants such as nettles, hogweed and hemlock, that thrive in the conditions, to overpower rare and endangered wildflowers, the charity warns. The study shows that 37 per cent of UK flowering plants prefer low-nutrient conditions and are under threat, declining while high nitrogen plants are on the rise. ichens, mosses and liverworts are particularly sensitive to nitrogen, while other plants at risk include harebell, which was recently classified as near-threatened in England, and bird's-foot trefoil, which supports 160 species of invertebrate. In total, 90 per cent of habitats across England and Wales that are sensitive to levels of nitrogen - such as heathlands, acid grasslands and sand dunes - are receiving pollution from the air and rain at higher levels than they can tolerate, researchers warned. esearchers said the British countryside was being threatened because because pollution is "force-feeding the natural world a diet of nutrient-rich junk food". The emissions of nitrogen - in the form of nitrogen oxides and ammonia - come in addition to the impact of nitrogen fertilisers being spread on the land. The report is backed by conservation organisations including the National Trust, the Woodland Trust, the RSPB, the Botanical Society of Britain and Ireland and Chester Zoo. Dr Trevor Dines, Plantlife's botanical specialist, said nitrogen being deposited from the air and rain could present a far more immediate threat to parts of the countryside than climate change. "We are force-feeding the natural world a diet of nutrient-rich junk food and it is having a devastating impact. "Once diverse habitats are becoming monotonous green badlands where only the thugs survive and other more delicate plants are being bullied out of existence,” he said. With the problem spreading across borders, and nitrogen pollution coming to Britain from the continent, Dr Dines called for European and international action. Locally, habitats could be managed to reduce nitrogen levels, with grazing, hay meadow management and tree coppicing to remove vegetation. Ammonia pollution could be reduced by planting buffers of trees around chicken sheds, he said.

Nettles and other "thuggish" plants are overpowering Britain's wildflowers as a result of air pollution, new research suggests.

Conservation experts say nitrogen emissions are having a "devastating impact" on UK wildflowers and landscapes, posing a greater threat than climate change.

The study by nature charity Plantlife says more than one third of flowering plants are now under threat from pollution.

Emissions from transport, power stations, farming and industry are deposited back into the natural environment directly from the air, or in the rain, over-fertilising the soil.

The pollution creates nutrient-rich soils which allow "thuggish" plants such as nettles, hogweed and hemlock, that thrive in the conditions, to overpower rare and endangered wildflowers, the charity warns.

The study shows that 37 per cent of UK flowering plants prefer low-nutrient conditions and are under threat, declining while high nitrogen plants are on the rise.