Government accused of obstructing the homeless from voting while spending millions on helping rich expats register
Government accused of obstructing the homeless from voting while spending millions on helping rich expats register
Ministers have been accused of deliberately making it hard for 400,000 predominantly young and poor people to vote – while spending millions on helping rich expats to cast their ballots. Election chiefs have protested over rules which prevent those without a permanent home from registering to vote online, a process quicker than “boiling an egg” the Government boasts. Instead, they must print out and return a form, when – as one electoral administrator pointed out – they are the people least likely “to have a printer, never mind the room to house it”.   Government warned to stop using 'misleading' homelessness figures Meanwhile, the Government is changing the law to allow Britons living abroad to easily register and vote in UK elections. Many of those expats are pensioners, who are more likely to vote Conservative than any other group. Now has learnt that the Association of Electoral Administrators (AEA) will protest to the Cabinet Office about the unfair hurdles faced by those without a permanent address in order to register to vote. This is thought to include thousands of sofa-surfing young professionals and those forced into short-term lets. Labour said the situation was another example of the Conservatives “giving handouts to the wealthiest whilst disenfranchising the poor and vulnerable”. And the Big Issue Foundation, which supports vendors selling the magazine, condemned a “barrier to democracy for people who want to play a full part in society”. Stephen Robertson, the foundation’s chief executive, said: “Just because you are experiencing poverty and homelessness doesn’t mean you don’t have the same ambitions. “That includes wanting to participate in democracy, but that will not be possible of you don’t have access to a printer in order to register to vote.” Under the rules, anyone without a permanent home cannot register online but must print out a “local connection” form and return it to their local council. One electoral administrator, Dave Jones, said: “The people in our society least likely to be able to afford to have a printer, never mind the room to house it, are the only ones expected to print their own form. “Alternatively, they have to contact their local electoral services office, with many offices passed from call centre pillar to call centre post. “Our registration rates would be catastrophically low if all electors were expected to do this.” One estimate is that up to 400,000 people are affected, including “sofa surfers” relying on friends for a roof over their heads, as well as people in hostels and homeless on the street. Mr Jones suggested a similar number of overseas voters would register once the “15-year rule” on residency abroad is scrapped, with a “staggering” difference in resources. Changing IT systems will cost at least £800,000, ministers have acknowledged – with unknown significant extra costs for local authorities. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    5 March 2017   The sun rises over Bingham in Nottinghamshire   Neil Squires/PA Wire     5 March 2017   Annie Lennox, Mayor of London Sadiq Khan and Bianca Jagger, at the start of the March4Women event in London, ahead of International Women's Day   Dominic Lipinski/PA     4 March 2017   David Haye after being knocked down in his bout against Tony Bellew at the O2 Arena, London   Reuters     4 March 2017   Tony Bellew speaks with David Haye after his victory during the heavyweight contest at The O2   Nick Potts/PA Wire     4 March 2017   Britain Boxing - David Haye v Tony Bellew - O2 Arena, London - Tony Bellew celebrates winning the fight   Reuters     4 March 2017   World number one Andy Murray of Great Britain celebrates with the championship trophy after winning his ATP final tennis match against Spain's Fernando Verdasco, during the Dubai Duty Free Championships.  Murray clinched his first title of 2017 and 45th of his career as he dominated Spain's Fernando Verdasco 6-3, 6-2 to win the Dubai Tennis Championships, claiming the trophy in the emirate for the first time after losing the final five years ago to Roger Federer   Getty Images     5 March 2017   Jack Mckendrick from North Wales, carrying his partner Kirsty Jones, wins the 10th UK Wife Carrying Race in Dorking, Surrey   PA wire     5 March 2017   Competitors start the 10th UK Wife Carrying Race in Dorking, Surrey   Gareth Fuller/PA Wire     4 March 2017   'Our NHS' demonstrators protest outside of the parliament in London   EPA     4 March 2017   Protesters march with banners and placards against private companies' involvement in the National Health Service (NHS) and social care services provision and against cuts to NHS funding in central London   Getty Images     4 March 2017   Sinn Fein northern leader Michelle O'Neill stands in front a mural of republican hunger striker Bobby Sands after holding a post election press conference at Sinn Fein headquarters in Belfast, Northern Ireland   Getty Images     2 March 2017   Mother Pam Duggan and aunt Carole Duggan arriving at the Royal Courts of Justice in London for the latest round of a legal battle by the family of Mark Duggan, whose fatal shooting by a police marksman sparked nationwide riots.  They are going to the Court of Appeal to challenge a decision by three High Court judges that an inquest jury was legally entitled to bring in its 8-2 majority verdict that he was 'lawfully killed'   Nick Ansell/PA Wire  Around 500 overseas voters are currently registered for each local authority, compared with just a few dozen people of no fixed address. “The Government has put significant money and electoral registration staff into registering overseas voters,” Mr Jones said. “To find ourselves working within a system that makes it harder to register for the most disadvantaged, while resources are thrown at citizens who are not even required to register, does not sit easily with our professional conscience.” It “wouldn’t need much tweaking” to IT systems to allow online registration of people without a permanent residential address, he said. Read more Government scraps housing benefit for young people Oxford University squatters who created homeless shelter evicted New powers being used to deport homeless migrants, campaigners warn Homeless women turned away by local councils for emergency housing Cat Smith, Labour’s spokesperson for voter engagement, said: “It’s perverse that while the Government are enfranchising expats who haven’t lived in the UK for over 15 years, they are placing barriers in the way of voting for people living in the UK without a permanent address. “There is no reason that everyone except those without a permanent address should be able to register online, especially given the difficulty of accessing a printer if you are homeless. “Once again, the Conservatives are giving handouts to the wealthiest whilst disenfranchising the poor and vulnerable.” John Turner, the AEA’s chief executive, said: “We intend to raise the issue of the registration of the homeless at our regular meeting next week with the Cabinet Office. “It is now 17 years since declarations of local connection were introduced. Given the length of time that has elapsed, we believe that the current provisions need to be reviewed.” A Cabinet Office spokesperson said: "This Government is committed to ensuring that everyone who is eligible to vote is able to do so, addressing the barriers for all under registered groups to ensure that everyone can participate in the democratic process. "At the same time, we will not deny British citizens - from all political parties - who were born in the UK and have moved abroad the opportunity to register to vote and have their say in the way their country is governed." More about: Homelessness Big Issue voter registration Labour Comments

Ministers have been accused of deliberately making it hard for 400,000 predominantly young and poor people to vote – while spending millions on helping rich expats to cast their ballots.

Election chiefs have protested over rules which prevent those without a permanent home from registering to vote online, a process quicker than “boiling an egg” the Government boasts.

Instead, they must print out and return a form, when – as one electoral administrator pointed out – they are the people least likely “to have a printer, never mind the room to house it”.

Meanwhile, the Government is changing the law to allow Britons living abroad to easily register and vote in UK elections. Many of those expats are pensioners, who are more likely to vote Conservative than any other group.

Now The Independent has learnt that the Association of Electoral Administrators (AEA) will protest to the Cabinet Office about the unfair hurdles faced by those without a permanent address in order to register to vote. This is thought to include thousands of sofa-surfing young professionals and those forced into short-term lets.

Labour said the situation was another example of the Conservatives “giving handouts to the wealthiest whilst disenfranchising the poor and vulnerable”.

And the Big Issue Foundation, which supports vendors selling the magazine, condemned a “barrier to democracy for people who want to play a full part in society”.

Stephen Robertson, the foundation’s chief executive, said: “Just because you are experiencing poverty and homelessness doesn’t mean you don’t have the same ambitions.

“That includes wanting to participate in democracy, but that will not be possible of you don’t have access to a printer in order to register to vote.”

Under the rules, anyone without a permanent home cannot register online but must print out a “local connection” form and return it to their local council.

A young voter leaves a polling station after casting her vote during the 2014 referendum on Scotland's independence ( Getty Images)

One electoral administrator, Dave Jones, said: “The people in our society least likely to be able to afford to have a printer, never mind the room to house it, are the only ones expected to print their own form.

“Alternatively, they have to contact their local electoral services office, with many offices passed from call centre pillar to call centre post.

“Our registration rates would be catastrophically low if all electors were expected to do this.”

One estimate is that up to 400,000 people are affected, including “sofa surfers” relying on friends for a roof over their heads, as well as people in hostels and homeless on the street.

Mr Jones suggested a similar number of overseas voters would register once the “15-year rule” on residency abroad is scrapped, with a “staggering” difference in resources.

Changing IT systems will cost at least £800,000, ministers have acknowledged – with unknown significant extra costs for local authorities.

UK news in pictures







12 show all UK news in pictures





















1/12 5 March 2017 The sun rises over Bingham in Nottinghamshire Neil Squires/PA Wire

2/12 5 March 2017 Annie Lennox, Mayor of London Sadiq Khan and Bianca Jagger, at the start of the March4Women event in London, ahead of International Women's Day Dominic Lipinski/PA

3/12 4 March 2017 David Haye after being knocked down in his bout against Tony Bellew at the O2 Arena, London Reuters

4/12 4 March 2017 Tony Bellew speaks with David Haye after his victory during the heavyweight contest at The O2 Nick Potts/PA Wire

5/12 4 March 2017 Britain Boxing - David Haye v Tony Bellew - O2 Arena, London - Tony Bellew celebrates winning the fight Reuters

6/12 4 March 2017 World number one Andy Murray of Great Britain celebrates with the championship trophy after winning his ATP final tennis match against Spain's Fernando Verdasco, during the Dubai Duty Free Championships. Murray clinched his first title of 2017 and 45th of his career as he dominated Spain's Fernando Verdasco 6-3, 6-2 to win the Dubai Tennis Championships, claiming the trophy in the emirate for the first time after losing the final five years ago to Roger Federer Getty Images

7/12 5 March 2017 Jack Mckendrick from North Wales, carrying his partner Kirsty Jones, wins the 10th UK Wife Carrying Race in Dorking, Surrey PA wire

8/12 5 March 2017 Competitors start the 10th UK Wife Carrying Race in Dorking, Surrey Gareth Fuller/PA Wire

9/12 4 March 2017 'Our NHS' demonstrators protest outside of the parliament in London EPA

10/12 4 March 2017 Protesters march with banners and placards against private companies' involvement in the National Health Service (NHS) and social care services provision and against cuts to NHS funding in central London Getty Images

11/12 4 March 2017 Sinn Fein northern leader Michelle O'Neill stands in front a mural of republican hunger striker Bobby Sands after holding a post election press conference at Sinn Fein headquarters in Belfast, Northern Ireland Getty Images

12/12 2 March 2017 Mother Pam Duggan and aunt Carole Duggan arriving at the Royal Courts of Justice in London for the latest round of a legal battle by the family of Mark Duggan, whose fatal shooting by a police marksman sparked nationwide riots. They are going to the Court of Appeal to challenge a decision by three High Court judges that an inquest jury was legally entitled to bring in its 8-2 majority verdict that he was 'lawfully killed' Nick Ansell/PA Wire

Around 500 overseas voters are currently registered for each local authority, compared with just a few dozen people of no fixed address.

“The Government has put significant money and electoral registration staff into registering overseas voters,” Mr Jones said.

“To find ourselves working within a system that makes it harder to register for the most disadvantaged, while resources are thrown at citizens who are not even required to register, does not sit easily with our professional conscience.”

It “wouldn’t need much tweaking” to IT systems to allow online registration of people without a permanent residential address, he said.

Cat Smith, Labour’s spokesperson for voter engagement, said: “It’s perverse that while the Government are enfranchising expats who haven’t lived in the UK for over 15 years, they are placing barriers in the way of voting for people living in the UK without a permanent address.

“There is no reason that everyone except those without a permanent address should be able to register online, especially given the difficulty of accessing a printer if you are homeless.

“Once again, the Conservatives are giving handouts to the wealthiest whilst disenfranchising the poor and vulnerable.”

John Turner, the AEA’s chief executive, said: “We intend to raise the issue of the registration of the homeless at our regular meeting next week with the Cabinet Office.

“It is now 17 years since declarations of local connection were introduced. Given the length of time that has elapsed, we believe that the current provisions need to be reviewed.”

A Cabinet Office spokesperson said: "This Government is committed to ensuring that everyone who is eligible to vote is able to do so, addressing the barriers for all under registered groups to ensure that everyone can participate in the democratic process.

"At the same time, we will not deny British citizens - from all political parties - who were born in the UK and have moved abroad the opportunity to register to vote and have their say in the way their country is governed."