Cop who fatally shot retiree during role-play scenario is fired
Cop who fatally shot retiree during role-play scenario is fired
Punta Gorda Police Officer Lee Coel and Mary Knowlton                Tweet     Stumble     Email  A police officer has been fired seven months after shooting and killing a 73-year-old retiree during a live gun demonstration in an accident that rattled a Florida community, CBS affiliate WINK-TV reports . Lee Coel shot Mary Knowlton at police headquarters in Punta Gorda, Florida, in August 2016, during a class meant to teach citizens about the decisions police officers face on the job. Accidental shooting at police-citizen training kills Florida woman Investigators are trying to determine why a Florida woman was shot and killed during a class about police procedures. Mary Knowlton, 73, was kill... Knowlton had volunteered to play the role of a shooting victim in a “shoot, don’t shoot” exercise in front of dozens of others. Blank rounds are typically used in the demonstration, but Coel’s weapon contained live ammunition. He fired a bullet that struck and killed Knowlton, a mother of two who had been married for 55 years. Her husband, Gary Knowlton, was standing 10 feet away when she fell to the ground. She died in the hospital a short time later. “Everyone involved is in an overwhelming state of shock and grief,” Police Chief Thomas Lewis said at the time, calling the incident a “horrible accident.” Coel has pleaded not guilty to a first-degree manslaughter charge and was dismissed from the police force Friday, according to WINK-TV. Punta Gorda Police Officer Lee Coel is seen in a photo posted to the police department’s Facebook page on July 29, 2016 “Your conduct during that exercise in failing to take appropriate and reasonable steps to ensure the safety of Mary Knowlton and in failing to ensure that no live ammunition was used during the exercise would, if true, constitute sufficient cause for disciplinary action up to and including potential discharge,” the city’s human resources manager wrote in a letter to Coel and his attorney last month. Coel received another letter informing him of his termination. He has 10 days to appeal the decision. Residents of Punta Gorda had mixed reactions to news of Coel’s firing. “If he was the one that put the bullet or anything with that lady getting killed, murdered is how i feel, then they need to get rid of him,” Roy Amidon told WINK-TV. “His mistake is not forgivable enough to put him back into the police department or police anywhere.” But Richard Ybarra said Coel was “a scapegoat” and faulted others in the police department for not doubling-checking the weapons used in the exercise. “Somebody else in charge should have checked the ammunition or checked the gun,” Ybarra told WINK-TV. “At least get around three or four checks before you start letting people in for a demonstration.”                Tweet     Stumble     Email

PUNTA GORDA, Fla. -- A police officer has been fired seven months after shooting and killing a 73-year-old retiree during a live gun demonstration in an accident that rattled a Florida community, CBS affiliate WINK-TV reports.

Lee Coel shot Mary Knowlton at police headquarters in Punta Gorda, Florida, in August 2016, during a class meant to teach citizens about the decisions police officers face on the job.

Knowlton had volunteered to play the role of a shooting victim in a “shoot, don’t shoot” exercise in front of dozens of others. Blank rounds are typically used in the demonstration, but Coel’s weapon contained live ammunition.

He fired a bullet that struck and killed Knowlton, a mother of two who had been married for 55 years. Her husband, Gary Knowlton, was standing 10 feet away when she fell to the ground. She died in the hospital a short time later.

“Everyone involved is in an overwhelming state of shock and grief,” Police Chief Thomas Lewis said at the time, calling the incident a “horrible accident.”

Coel has pleaded not guilty to a first-degree manslaughter charge and was dismissed from the police force Friday, according to WINK-TV.

Punta Gorda Police Department

“Your conduct during that exercise in failing to take appropriate and reasonable steps to ensure the safety of Mary Knowlton and in failing to ensure that no live ammunition was used during the exercise would, if true, constitute sufficient cause for disciplinary action up to and including potential discharge,” the city’s human resources manager wrote in a letter to Coel and his attorney last month.

Coel received another letter informing him of his termination. He has 10 days to appeal the decision.

Residents of Punta Gorda had mixed reactions to news of Coel’s firing.

“If he was the one that put the bullet or anything with that lady getting killed, murdered is how i feel, then they need to get rid of him,” Roy Amidon told WINK-TV. “His mistake is not forgivable enough to put him back into the police department or police anywhere.”

But Richard Ybarra said Coel was “a scapegoat” and faulted others in the police department for not doubling-checking the weapons used in the exercise.

“Somebody else in charge should have checked the ammunition or checked the gun,” Ybarra told WINK-TV. “At least get around three or four checks before you start letting people in for a demonstration.”