Larry Sanders, Cleveland Cavaliers Reportedly Agree to Contract
Larry Sanders, Cleveland Cavaliers Reportedly Agree to Contract
Center Larry Sanders has signed with the Cleveland Cavaliers , according to Shams Charania of The Vertical and Chris Haynes of ESPN.com. Charania noted the deal will likely include a team option for the 2017-18 season. Sam Amico of Fox Sports Ohio reported Sanders may join team activities as soon as Tuesday. Sanders, 28, spent his first five seasons with the Milwaukee Bucks , averaging 6.5 points, 5.8 rebounds and 1.8 blocks per game. His best season came in 2012-13, when he notched 9.8 points, 9.5 rebounds and 2.8 blocks in 27.3 minutes per game. Sanders appeared to be on his way to being one of the better defensive centers in the league. But a series of injuries, suspensions for marijuana use and off-court incidents led Sanders to walk away from the NBA and accept a buyout from the Bucks in February 2015. He later revealed in The Players' Tribune that he was dealing with anxiety and depression and stepped away from the game to focus on his mental health. But two years later, he announced he would be returning to basketball: Officially stepping back into the game,looking for a good fit but it shouldn't be long now,I really missed the game,I think it missed me 2 🛐 Sanders offers the Cavaliers an intriguing player to add to their frontcourt rotation. While he's not much of an offensive threat, he's a strong rebounder who makes a major impact on the defensive end with his shot-blocking prowess. While he will absolutely face an adjustment period after skipping the entire 2015-16 season and appearing in just 50 total games in his last two seasons in the league, he should provide Cleveland with a nice rotational option off the bench. It's hard to know if he'll ever return to the form he displayed in the 2012-13 campaign, but he's a relatively inexpensive gamble for the Cavaliers after Andrew Bogut suffered a fractured left tibia just seconds into his first appearance with the Wine and Gold.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Sam Forencich/Getty Images

Center Larry Sanders has signed with the Cleveland Cavaliers, according to Shams Charania of The Vertical and Chris Haynes of ESPN.com.

Charania noted the deal will likely include a team option for the 2017-18 season. Sam Amico of Fox Sports Ohio reported Sanders may join team activities as soon as Tuesday.

Sanders, 28, spent his first five seasons with the Milwaukee Bucks, averaging 6.5 points, 5.8 rebounds and 1.8 blocks per game. His best season came in 2012-13, when he notched 9.8 points, 9.5 rebounds and 2.8 blocks in 27.3 minutes per game. Sanders appeared to be on his way to being one of the better defensive centers in the league.

But a series of injuries, suspensions for marijuana use and off-court incidents led Sanders to walk away from the NBA and accept a buyout from the Bucks in February 2015. He later revealed in The Players' Tribune that he was dealing with anxiety and depression and stepped away from the game to focus on his mental health.

But two years later, he announced he would be returning to basketball:

Sanders offers the Cavaliers an intriguing player to add to their frontcourt rotation. While he's not much of an offensive threat, he's a strong rebounder who makes a major impact on the defensive end with his shot-blocking prowess.

While he will absolutely face an adjustment period after skipping the entire 2015-16 season and appearing in just 50 total games in his last two seasons in the league, he should provide Cleveland with a nice rotational option off the bench.

It's hard to know if he'll ever return to the form he displayed in the 2012-13 campaign, but he's a relatively inexpensive gamble for the Cavaliers after Andrew Bogut suffered a fractured left tibia just seconds into his first appearance with the Wine and Gold.

You can follow Timothy Rapp on Twitter.