Malaysia says it will give Kim's family time to claim body
Malaysia says it will give Kim's family time to claim body
Shares                Malaysia's health minister said Monday that the government will give relatives of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's estranged half brother two to three weeks to claim his body before deciding what to do with it. Malaysian authorities say Kim Jong Nam died after two women smeared his face with the banned VX nerve agent at Kuala Lumpur's airport on Feb. 13, but North Korea — which is widely suspected to be behind the attack — rejects the findings.  North Korea has demanded the body back from Day One and objected to Malaysia's autopsy. Pyongyang also has refused to acknowledge that Kim Jong Nam was the victim and has referred to him as Kim Chol, the name on the passport Kim was carrying when he was attacked in a crowded airport terminal. On Friday, Malaysian police confirmed that Kim Chol and Kim Jong Nam was the same person, but refused to say how they identified Kim. "Now with the positive identification of the body, we are told that he had a wife or wives and children," Health Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam told reporters on Monday. "So we hope that those people will respond and come forward to claim the body. In the absence of that, then we will address it as a government ... in trying to find how we are going to take the next step." "I think after identification, we'll give ourselves about two to three weeks to solve the problem," he said. The body is being kept at a morgue at a Kuala Lumpur hospital. Since Kim's death, relations between the two countries have steadily deteriorated, with each expelling the other's ambassador. Last Tuesday, North Korea blocked all Malaysians from leaving the country until a "fair settlement" of the case was reached. Malaysia then barred North Koreans from exiting its soil. Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said Monday that negotiations with North Korea were taking place, but he did not give details. There are nine Malaysians in North Korea — three embassy staff members and their family members. Some 315 North Koreans are in Malaysia, according to Malaysian officials. Both countries have also scrapped visa-free travel for each other's citizens. Although Malaysia has never directly accused North Korea of being behind the attack, many speculate that Pyongyang must have orchestrated it. Experts say the VX nerve agent used to kill Kim was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory, and North Korea is widely believed to possess large quantities of chemical weapons. Four of the seven North Korean suspects being sought by Malaysia are believed to have left the country the day Kim was killed. Police say the other three suspects, including a North Korean diplomat, are believed to be in hiding at the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur. The attack was caught on surveillance video that shows two women going up to Kim and apparently smearing something on his face. He was dead within 20 minutes, authorities say. Two women — one Indonesian, one Vietnamese — have been charged with murder but say they were duped into thinking they were playing a harmless prank. Shares                  Malaysia says it will give Kim's family time to claim body   New video of events before fatal Ferguson shooting in film   McCain to Trump: Provide wiretap evidence or retract claim   Turkish leader says Dutch will 'pay the price' for insult   'Carlos the Jackal,' 1970s extremist, faces Paris trial   Female jogger uses self-defense tactics to stop assault   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Interval training may have anti-aging benefits, study finds   Turkey formally protests minister's treatment in Netherlands   Death toll in Guatemala children's shelter fire rises to 40   Scientists race to prevent wipeout of world's coral reefs   How Russians view the drama unfolding in Washington   Melania Trump begins to embrace new role as first lady   Richard Gere in Israel criticizes settlements   Girl writes letter to the thief who robbed her family's home   3-year-old girl dies after fire blamed on recharging hoverboard   'Billions' creators react to the firing of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara   'Beauty and the Beast'-inspired travel spots

Malaysia's health minister said Monday that the government will give relatives of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's estranged half brother two to three weeks to claim his body before deciding what to do with it.

Malaysian authorities say Kim Jong Nam died after two women smeared his face with the banned VX nerve agent at Kuala Lumpur's airport on Feb. 13, but North Korea — which is widely suspected to be behind the attack — rejects the findings.

North Korea has demanded the body back from Day One and objected to Malaysia's autopsy. Pyongyang also has refused to acknowledge that Kim Jong Nam was the victim and has referred to him as Kim Chol, the name on the passport Kim was carrying when he was attacked in a crowded airport terminal.

On Friday, Malaysian police confirmed that Kim Chol and Kim Jong Nam was the same person, but refused to say how they identified Kim.

"Now with the positive identification of the body, we are told that he had a wife or wives and children," Health Minister Subramaniam Sathasivam told reporters on Monday. "So we hope that those people will respond and come forward to claim the body. In the absence of that, then we will address it as a government ... in trying to find how we are going to take the next step."

"I think after identification, we'll give ourselves about two to three weeks to solve the problem," he said.

The body is being kept at a morgue at a Kuala Lumpur hospital.

Since Kim's death, relations between the two countries have steadily deteriorated, with each expelling the other's ambassador. Last Tuesday, North Korea blocked all Malaysians from leaving the country until a "fair settlement" of the case was reached. Malaysia then barred North Koreans from exiting its soil.

Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said Monday that negotiations with North Korea were taking place, but he did not give details.

There are nine Malaysians in North Korea — three embassy staff members and their family members. Some 315 North Koreans are in Malaysia, according to Malaysian officials.

Both countries have also scrapped visa-free travel for each other's citizens.

Although Malaysia has never directly accused North Korea of being behind the attack, many speculate that Pyongyang must have orchestrated it. Experts say the VX nerve agent used to kill Kim was almost certainly produced in a sophisticated state weapons laboratory, and North Korea is widely believed to possess large quantities of chemical weapons.

Four of the seven North Korean suspects being sought by Malaysia are believed to have left the country the day Kim was killed. Police say the other three suspects, including a North Korean diplomat, are believed to be in hiding at the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur.

The attack was caught on surveillance video that shows two women going up to Kim and apparently smearing something on his face. He was dead within 20 minutes, authorities say. Two women — one Indonesian, one Vietnamese — have been charged with murder but say they were duped into thinking they were playing a harmless prank.