Nicola Sturgeon calls for second Scottish independence referendum - Politics live

And here is , the Labour leader, on Nicola Sturgeon’s speech. The 2014 Scottish independence referendum was billed as a once in a generation event. The result was decisive and there is no appetite for another referendum. Labour believes it would be wrong to hold another so soon and Scottish Labour will oppose it in the Scottish parliament. If, however, the Scottish parliament votes for one, Labour will not block that democratic decision at Westminster. Updated       No 10 says second independence referendum would be “divisive” – but declines to rule one out Downing Street has released this response to Nicola Sturgeon’s speech. A government spokesman said: As the prime minister has set out, the UK government seeks a future partnership with the EU that works for the whole of the United Kingdom. The UK government will negotiate that agreement, but we will do so taking into account the interests of all of the nations of the UK. We have been working closely with all the devolved administrations – listening to their proposals, and recognising the many areas of common ground, including workers’ rights, the status of EU citizens living in the UK and our security from crime and terrorism. Only a little over two years ago people in Scotland voted decisively to remain part of our United Kingdom in a referendum which the Scottish government defined as a ‘once in a generation’ vote. The evidence clearly shows that a majority of people in Scotland do not want a second independence referendum. Another referendum would be divisive and cause huge economic uncertainty at the worst possible time. The Scottish government should focus on delivering good government and public services for the people in Scotland. Updated       Here is the full text of Nicola Sturgeon’s speech.      the leader of the Scottish Conservatives, has said her MSPs will vote against holding a second independence referendum in the Scottish parliament next week. The Conservatives are the main opposition party at Holyrood. Nicola Sturgeon has today chosen the path of further division and uncertainty. We will vote against any request for a Section 30 next week. , the Scottish Labour leader, has also confirmed that Scottish Labour is opposed. Scotland is already divided enough. We do not want to be divided again, but that is exactly what another independence referendum would do Here are the party figures for Holyrood: SNP: 63 Conservatives: 31 Labour: 23 Greens: 6 Lib Dems: 5 Other: 1 The SNP do not have a majority (65) but, as Nicola Sturgeon hinted in her Q&A (see 12.13pm), they should be able to rely on the support of the Greens in next week’s vote on an independence referendum. Updated       Sturgeon says Brexit has already created uncertainty. And that’s it. The Q&A is over.      Sturgeon says that is still her defining mission.      Sturgeon says she sees no reason why the question should not be the same as it was last time. But that has to be decided, she says.      Sturgeon says she respects their views. She says 1 million people in Scotland voted to leave. But there is a bigger issue at stake, she says. Who decides Scotland’s future? She says she thinks there will be strong support for Scotland deciding its future. Updated       Sturgeon says she thinks their support for independence and a second referendum is pretty clear, but that she will let them speak for themselves. (The SNP do not have a majority in Holyrood, and rely on the Greens on key votes.)      Sturgeon says this will be decided in due course. She says she does not want Scotland to have to choose between Europe and the UK. She says Scotland’s closest relationship will be with the rest of the UK. But it wants a close relationship with Europe too. Updated       Sturgeon says she is not expecting that, so she won’t speculate on that. She says Ruth Davidson and David Mundell have said it would be wrong for Westminster to block a second referendum. And she does not think Theresa May would block one either. She says she thinks the Scottish parliament should decide the timing and the franchise for the referendum. That is what happened in 2014, she says. Updated       Sturgeon says she does not think there is a contradiction. She says she wants Scotland to continue to trade freely with England. Scotland becoming independent would not amount to turning its back on England. It would instead create a “genuine partnership of equals”, she says. She says this is about what kind of country we want to become. Scotland should not be taken down a path without a choice. Do they want to follow the rest of the UK into a hard Brexit? Or do they want independence?      Sturgeon says she cannot say how long it would take to agree a second referendum with Westminster. But she hopes that that would not take too long. After that there are set rules about how long referendum campaigns last.      Severin Carrell’s article explaining why a second vote is back on the table again points out that the Scottish parliament does not have the authority to stage a vote under the UK’s referendum legislation. He writes: It must get Westminster’s approval under a section 30 order of the Scotland Act to do so. The UK and Scottish governments will need to sign a second Edinburgh agreement, which in 2012 set up the 2014 independence referendum. That will trigger a battle over its timing, whether before or after Brexit, the wording of the question or indeed whether a third option, such as Labour and Lib Dem quests for a federal UK, could be added. The question and process will then need to be agreed and overseen by the Electoral Commission. But the bigger question of when and how an independent Scotland could join the EU or retain its membership is uncertain: there is no precedent for part of a member state retaining membership when the member state leaves. The EU may insist it cannot start considering a Scottish bid until after Brexit so it knows what terms Scotland is joining under.  Politics   Politics live with Andrew Sparrow   Labour   Scottish independence   Scottish politics   Nicola Sturgeon   EU referendum and Brexit

Rolling coverage of the day’s political developments as they happen, including MPs debating and voting on the Lords amendments on the article 50 bill on the rights of EU nationals and parliament voting on the final deal