2017 NCAA Tournament: All the previews, picks and bracket breakdowns
2017 NCAA Tournament: All the previews, picks and bracket breakdowns
: Villanova, the reigning champions, earned the top overall seed. Sitting at the bottom of the region is the Duke Blue Devils, fresh off four wins in four nights to claim the ACC Tournament championship on Saturday night. Several other ranked opponents are in this region, as well as two potential Cinderellas. Rob Dauster broke down the East Region here . : Kansas likely would have been the No. 1 overall seed in the NCAA Tournament had it not been for an upset loss in the Big 12 Tournament quarterfinals. However, the Jayhawks find themselves in a region potentially filled with fun matchups. The Midwest also features a dangerous double-digit seeds in No. 11 Rhode Island, fresh off an Atlantic 10 Tournament title win which kept the Rams from the First Four. Scott Phillips breaks down how the Midwest will be won here . : : Despite not winning its conference tournament, North Carolina is the top team in the South. Its a region of bluebloods as the Tar Heels, Kentucky and UCLA make up the top three seeds. A potential second round matchup everyone would like to see: No. 10 Wichita State vs. No. 2 Kentucky, a rematch of the epic clash from 2014 Rob Dauster fills you in on the rest of this bracket here . : Gonzaga, which flirted with perfection up until February, is the final No. 1 overall seed. If everything goes to plan, Gonzaga will be in line for a rematch with No. 2 seed Arizona. The Zags beat the Wildcats in a neutral floor meeting earlier this season. This region also features Northwestern, which will be playing in its first-ever NCAA Tournament. Scott Phillips has the rest of the insight on this region . All season long, Rob Dauster has been tracking bubble teams with his Bubble Banter series. While Rhode Island won its wayin, USC earned one of the final at-large bids along with Kansas State and Wake Forest. This sent Syracuse, Cal and Illinois State to the NIT. But did the committee make the right call on bubble teams? Rob answers that question here . Duke entered the season as the overwhelming favorite to cut down the nets in April. The Blue Devils’ season is well documented, but this past week in Brooklyn, they started to look like the team we thought they could be. With the most RPI top-50 wins and an ACC Tournament title, did Duke belong on the top line? Scott Phillips tells you whether or not the NCAA Tournament Selection Committee got it right with the No. 1 seeds . Like last year, this field has an abundance of Final Four caliber teams. Will this be nothing more than a bunch of No. 1 seeds vs. No. 2 seeds in the Elite 8? Or is there are darkhorse you need to know about before filling out that bracket? Rob Dauster has all the answers for you here. Even with Syracuse as one of the notable snubs, the Atlantic Coast Conference led all other leagues with nine bids. Check here for the conference breakdown . In 2016, Villanova was the No. 7 overall seed entering the NCAA Tournament. This time around the selection committee saw the Wildcats as the top team in the field .The NCAA Tournament Selection Committee official seed list — Nos. 1-68 — is all right here . Scroll Down For: More College Hoops : Forget Wichita State, the team that got the worst draw of the entire tournament field was Kentucky. How about this: If favorites hold on to win, in order for the Wildcats to get to the Final Four, they’re going to have to beat Wichita State — who is currently sitting in eighth on KenPom — in the second round, UCLA in the Sweet 16 and North Carolina in the Elite 8. That’s just to to the Final Four! They’re still going to have to beat the likes of Kansas and Louisville and Duke and Villanova once they get there. For a team that has the ups and down that Kentucky can have, the idea that they’re going to have to beat five of the ten or 12 best teams in America to win a national title isn’t exactly inspiring. : The Blue Raiders are coming off of a year where they knocked off No. 2 Michigan State, the popular national title pick, in what may be the greatest first round upset in NCAA tournament history. What are they going to do for an encore? Beating Minnesota and the winner of Butler-Winthrop is certainly feasible. : In an ideal world, there will be four different shades of blue populating the FedEx Forum the second weekend of the NCAA tournament. Three of those blues would ideally come from bluebloods: North Carolina, Kentucky and UCLA. Those three fan bases are large and passionate, and both Kentucky and North Carolina are close enough that their crowds will flood that building. But then there is Middle Tennessee State. The Blue Raiders would be the darlings of the dance if they can get to the second weekend, and their campus is just a four hour ride down I-40 from Memphis. You can’t really ask for something better than that.  : For my money, North Carolina is one of the four teams in this tournament that I think has the best shot of winning the national title, and I honestly do not see them getting too much of a test until the Elite 8. Squaring off with Seton Hall will be a fight — there aren’t many teams that are as physical and athletic and tough as the Pirates — and Butler has a habit of beating teams they aren’t supposed to beat, but I just think the Tar Heels are too good. If Kentucky gets by Wichita State, their game against UCLA is a coin-flip game. I think I’d lean UCLA in that one, but with De’Aaron Fox back and Malik Monk on one, it’s tough to pick against UK. You are going to hear this point made so many times over the course of the next week that it will make you sick, but Wichita State is a top ten team on KenPom, which is the most highly-regarded metric of its type within basketball circles. They haven’t beaten anyone yet, but they also haven’t played anyone since a team that replaced Fred VanVleet and Ron Baker finally came together. The thing standing in their way is the same thing that hurts Kentucky: that path to the Final Four is an absolute nightmare. : : These dudes are good. I’m telling you. They beat Vanderbilt by 23 points. They were up by 29 points at the half at Ole Miss. They won at Belmont. They beat UNC Wilmington. And I don’t think it’s crazy to think that Middle ended up in a region with the worst No. 4 seed and the worst No. 5 seed in Butler and Minnesota, respectively. : UCLA can’t guard. We know this. We’ve known it for a long time. Wake Forest can’t guard either, but they are the eighth-most efficient team in college basketball and they have a future NBA center in John Collins that is punishing dudes this season. : The Shockers are very, very good and very, very well-coached. It’s not crazy to think that Gregg Marshall will find a way to scheme Malik Monk out of the game. : Given that this game would turn into one of those strength-vs.-strength matchups, I think some will make this pick. The biggest reason I don’t see this upset happening? UNC doesn’t have anyone that I think is going to be a pushover against Seton Hall. Unless there is someone in your pool from the state of Kentucky, no one is going to be on that pick, not with the way the Wildcats played late in the season and not when they have to beat so many great teams to get there. But remember: Upsets happen in this tournament, and Kentucky has a kid by the name of Malik Monk, who is capable of going crazy, taking a game over and winning it by himself. If you want to ride with Monk and De’Aaron Fox, it’s worth the long odds. : : He’s scored 20 points in a half six times this season, 30-or-more in one half twice and for 47 points in a win over North Carolina in Las Vegas. He’s not bad. : Jackson turned himself into the ACC Player of the Year this season, operating as UNC’s go-to guy and best perimeter shooter. : The man that should be credited with turning around UCLA. He turned that program into what it is today, instilling a culture of unselfishness. : Generally listed at 5-foot-7, Johnson is a dynamic scorer that averaged better than 22 points this season. Can he lead the Eagles to a win over Butler? : Collins has been an absolute monster this season, averaging 18.9 points, 9.8 boards and scoring 20-or-more in 12 straight games at one point. The Flyers and the Shockers are two of the best teams and best basketball programs that you may not realize are two of the best teams and programs. This should be a terrific, well-coached game between the two most in-demand head coaches in college basketball. This is what you want to have happen: Kentucky play Wichita State in the second round before taking on UCLA in the Sweet 16. Then you want the winner of that game to play North Carolina. It’s that simple. : I think the Tar Heels come out of the South, beating UCLA in the Elite 8. More College Hoops  6:40 p.m., truTV, Dayton No. 16 Mt. St. Mary’s vs. No. 16 New Orleans (Brian Anderson, Clark Kellogg, Lewis Johnson) 9:05 p.m., truTV, Dayton No. 11 Kansas State vs. No. 11 Wake Forest (Brian Anderson, Clark Kellogg, Lewis Johnson)  6:40 p.m., truTV, Dayton No. 16 NC Central vs. No. 16 UC Davis (Spero Dedes, Steve Smith, Len Elmore, Ros Gold-Owude) 9:05 p.m., truTV, Dayton No. 11 Providence vs. No. 11 USC (Spero Dedes, Steve Smith, Len Elmore, Ros Gold-Owude)  12:15 p.m., CBS, Buffalo No. 5 Notre Dame vs. No. 12 Princeton (Verne Lundquist, Jim Spanarkel, Allie LaForce) 12:40 p.m., truTV, Orlando No. 8 Virginia vs. No. 9 UNC Wilmington (Ian Eagle, Steve Lavin, Evan Washburn) 1:30 p.m., TNT, Milwaukee No. 4 Butler vs. No. 13 Winthrop (Carter Blackburn, Mike Gminski, Debbie Antonelli, Lisa Byington) 2:00 p.m., TBS, Salt Lake City No. 1 Gonzaga vs. No. 16 South Dakota State (Andrew Catalon, Steve Lappas, Jamie Eradhl) 2:45 p.m., CBS, Buffalo No. 4 West Virginia vs. No. 13 Bucknell (Verne Lundquist, Jim Spanarkel, Allie LaForce) 3:10 p.m., truTV, Orlando No. 4 Florida vs. No. 13 East Tennessee State (Ian Eagle, Steve Lavin, Evan Washburn) 4:00 p.m., TNT, Milwaukee No. 5 Minnesota vs. No. 12 Middle Tennessee (Carter Blackburn, Mike Gminski, Debbie Antonelli, Lisa Byington) 4:30 p.m., TBS, Salt Lake City No. 8 Northwestern vs. No. 9 Vanderbilt (Andrew Catalon, Steve Lappas, Jamie Eradhl)  6:50 p.m., TNT, Orlando No. 6 Maryland vs. No. 11 Xavier (Ian Eagle, Steve Lavin, Evan Washburn) 7:10 p.m., CBS, Buffalo No. 1 Villanova vs. No. 16 Mt. Saint Mary’s/New Orleans (Verne Lundquist, Jim Spanarkel, Allie LaForce) 7:20 p.m., TBS, Salt Lake City No. 7 Saint Mary’s vs. No. 10 VCU (Andrew Catalon, Steve Lappas, Jamie Eradhl) 7:27 p.m., truTV, Milwaukee No. 4 Purdue vs. No. 13 Vermont (Carter Blackburn, Mike Gminski, Debbie Antonelli, Lisa Byington) 9:20 p.m., TNT, Orlando No. 3 Florida State vs. No. 14 Florida Gulf Coast (Ian Eagle, Steve Lavin, Evan Washburn) 9:40 p.m., CBS, Buffalo No. 8 Wisconsin vs. No. 9 Virginia Tech (Verne Lundquist, Jim Spanarkel, Allie LaForce) 9:50 p.m., TBS, Salt Lake City No. 2 Arizona vs. No. 15 North Dakota (Andrew Catalon, Steve Lappas, Jamie Eradhl) 9:57 p.m., truTV, Milwaukee No. 5 Iowa State vs. No. 12 Nevada (Carter Blackburn, Mike Gminski, Debbie Antonelli, Lisa Byington)  12:15 p.m., CBS, Indianapolis No. 7 Michigan vs. No. 10 Oklahoma State (Jim Nantz, Grant Hill, Bill Raftery, Tracy Wolfson) 12:40 p.m., truTV, Tulsa No. 3 Baylor vs. No. 14 New Mexico State (Kevin Harlan, Reggie Miller, Dan Bonner, Dana Jacobson) 1:30 p.m., TNT, Greenville No. 8 Arkansas vs. No. 9 Seton Hall (Brian Anderson, Chris Webber, Lewis Johnson) 2:00 p.m., TBS, Sacramento No. 3 Oregon vs. No. 14 Iona (Spero Dedes, Steve Smith, Len Elmore, Ros Gold-Onwude) 2:45 p.m., CBS, Indianapolis No. 2 Louisville vs. No. 15 Jacksonville State (Jim Nantz, Grant Hill, Bill Raftery, Tracy Wolfson) 3:10 p.m., truTV, Tulsa No. 6 SMU vs. No. 11 Providence/USC (Kevin Harlan, Reggie Miller, Dan Bonner, Dana Jacobson) 4:00 p.m., TNT, Greenville No. 1 North Carolina vs. No. 16 Texas Southern (Brian Anderson, Chris Webber, Lewis Johnson) 4:30 p.m., TBS, Sacramento No. 6 Creighton vs. No. 11 Rhode Island (Spero Dedes, Steve Smith, Len Elmore, Ros Gold-Onwude)  6:50 p.m., TNT, Tulsa No. 1 Kansas vs. No. 16 NC Central/UC Davis (Kevin Harlan, Reggie Miller, Dan Bonner, Dana Jacobson) 7:10 p.m., CBS, Indianapolis No. 7 Dayton vs. No. 10 Wichita State (Jim Nantz, Grant Hill, Bill Raftery, Tracy Wolfson) 7:20 p.m., TBS, Greenville No. 2 Duke vs. No. 15 Troy (Brian Anderson, Chris Webber, Lewis Johnson) 7:27 p.m., truTV, Sacramento No. 6 Cincinnati vs. No. 11 Kansas State/Wake Forest (Spero Dedes, Steve Smith, Len Elmore, Ros Gold-Onwude) 9:20 p.m., TNT, Tulsa No. 8 Miami vs. No. 9 Michigan State (Kevin Harlan, Reggie Miller, Dan Bonner, Dana Jacobson) 9:40 p.m., CBS, Indianapolis No. 2 Kentucky vs. No. 15 Northern Kentucky (Jim Nantz, Grant Hill, Bill Raftery, Tracy Wolfson) 9:50 p.m., TBS, Greenville No. 7 South Carolina vs. No. 10 Marquette (Brian Anderson, Chris Webber, Lewis Johnson) 9:57 p.m., truTV, Sacramento No. 3 UCLA vs. No. 14 Kent State (Spero Dedes, Steve Smith, Len Elmore, Ros Gold-Onwude) More College Hoops Who doesn’t love a good set of Power Rankings? With that in mind, let’s dive into the Field of 68 Power Rankings, but instead of breaking down who the best teams in the field are, let’s take a look at the most like teams to win the national title. It’s not simply about how good they are. How good is their path to the Final Four? How likely are they to get picked off by the No. 10 seed that didn’t deserve to be a No. 10 seed? Who was given the gift of being the No. 1 seed guaranteed to face a double-digit seed in the Sweet 16? The best part about this? I think you can make an argument for any of the top five to be No. 1, any of the top eight teams on this list can win the national title and I wouldn’t be surprised in the least, and there are a good 17 or 18 teams that I think have a good shot to get to the Final Four. The tournament this season is going to be a whole lot of fun. Here are the Power Rankings: 1. : The No. 1 seed in the Midwest, the Jayhawks, for my money, are the best team in college basketball when no one is suspended. There is no one in the country I trust more in the final minutes of a close game than Frank Mason III, and he’s not even the best player on the team. That would be Josh Jackson. A potential Iowa State matchup in the Sweet 16 could slip them up, but I think drawing Louisville and Oregon is a good break for the Jayhawks. 2. : People don’t remember this, but North Carolina was running Duke off of the floor in the ACC tournament semifinals when Joel Berry II picked up his fourth foul. If Berry stays out of foul trouble, the ‘Is Duke a No. 1 seed?’ thing never becomes a thing. 3. : The Blue Devils are streaking. They seem to have hit top gear during the ACC tournament, and there’s a good chance that they’ll get to the Elite 8 before they play a game where they don’t have the two or three best players on the floor. I bet on talent in March. 4. : I’ve seen people trying to explain why Duke is better off as the No. 2 seed in the East than the No. 1 seed in the South, because they think Kentucky and UCLA are better than Villanova. Let me explain something to you: Villanova is awesome. I don’t think this way, but it’s not wrong to have the Wildcats No. 1 on this list. 5. : The Zags don’t have the same upper-echelon talent as some of the other teams that are title contender, but their weaknesses are as limited as any title contender’s weaknesses. 6. : The Wildcats are young and have point guard issues. We know that. They also are loaded with talent and are playing their best basketball at the right time. Allonzo Trier was terrific in the Pac-12 tournament. 7. : When the Bruins kick into high gear, when they play their best basketball, I don’t think there is anyone in the country that is going to be able to beat them. The concern is what happens on the nights when they don’t play that way. 8. : Like UCLA, on the nights where Malik Monk goes bonkers, Kentucky can beat anyone in college basketball. What happens when Monk doesn’t go bonkers? The good news for the Wildcats is that, during the SEC tournament, it looks like Monk’s supporting cast found their groove again. 9. : I’m worried about Louisville’s ability to score. I’m not worried about their ability to defend, and I’m certainly not concerned about their coaching. Rick Pitino is as good as it gets in NCAA tournament situations. : 10. : They lost Chris Boucher, but they still have Dillon Brooks, Jordan Bell is still one of the best defenders in the country and this team looked pretty good playing down the stretch against Arizona on Saturday in the Pac-12 final. 11. : The Cyclones are coming off of a win in the Big 12 tournament and also own a win at Phog Allen Fieldhouse this season. They are dangerous, they are peaking at the right time and they can matchup with all the elite teams that thrive playing small-ball. 12. : West Virginia’s press is awesome and they’re highly rated on KenPom. Those get me intrigued. The fact that a pressing team is in a region where the top three teams all have one form of point guard issues or another has me thinking they can make a run. 13. : The Boilermakers were the best team in the Big Ten and have one of the best players in the country in Caleb Swanigan. Combine that with the fact that they surround a pair of dominant low-post scorers with a bevy of sharp-shooters, and I think Matt Painter’s club has a puncher’s chance of getting out of the Midwest. 14. : I love this Notre Dame team. Love them. They’ve now been to back-to-back Elite 8s and have a team this season that may be Mike Brey’s best coaching job to date. You are going to love Bonzie Colson. : 15. : Yup. I said it. I don’t think Butler can get to a Final Four, although I will freely admit that has more to do with the fact that they are in the same region as Duke and Villanova as it does anything to do with this team. But I will say this: They haven’t looked like the same team for more than a month. Have they been figured out? 16. : The Bulldogs are a weird group. They have the talent of a bubble team, but they’ve swept Villanova and beaten Arizona on a neutral court that was anything but neutral. I do like Butler, but I don’t think they can get past North Carolina in the Sweet 16. 17. : The single-most egregious mis-seed. The Shockers rank 8th on KenPom. They are a No. 10 seed in the South. Kentucky is going to have their work cut out for them if they square off in the second round. Just an interesting thing to think about: If the Shockers are going to get to a Final Four, they’re probably going to have to do it by knocking off Kentucky, UCLA and North Carolina. 18. : The Mustangs are another team that got a raw deal on seeding. This is a team that is 11th on KenPom but finds themselves as a No. 6 seed in the Big Dance despite winning the AAC regular season and tournament titles. 19. : I want to rank Florida higher than this because I really like that team, but the problem is that A) they are without starting center John Egbunu, who tore his ACL, and B) they probably need to beat both Villanova and Duke to get to the Final Four. That’s a big ask. 20. : Florida State is the most talented team that I trust the least. I think that their matchup with FGCU in the first round is really quite intriguing. 21. : Virginia is still just as good defensively as they were the last three seasons. Their issue? They cannot score at the same level. They got a good matchup in the first round against No. 12 seed UNC Wilmington, one that should keep them from getting picked off early. 22. : I think the Badgers are probably seeded too low at No. 8. They finished second in the Big Ten regular season race and reached the Big Ten title game. Good luck with that second round matchup against Villanova. 23. : The Terps got a really nice draw. They get a Xavier team that doesn’t have either of their point guard in the first round and then, if seeds hold, face-off with Florida State in the second round 24. : The Wolverines were the best story during Championship Week, overcoming a plane crash to win the Big Ten tournament despite being the No. 8 seed and playing their opening game in practice jerseys just two hours after landing in DC. They’ve been hot for two months now. 25. : I think the Gophers have been undervalued all season long. Their biggest issue this month? They get Middle Tennessee State in the first round. 26. : The Bearcats are a weird team to peg. They have size, experience and toughness, but they’ve been handled the last two times they’ve played a real opponent, both of which were SMU. 27. : The Pokes are dangerous. Jawun Evans is a top eight point guard in college basketball, Phil Forte is a sniper and head coach Brad Underwood is no stranger to winning in March. 28. : I think Middle Tennessee State has the best chance of any mid-major to get to the Sweet 16. They can handle Minnesota, and Butler is probably the best No. 4 seed to be matched up with in this tournament. Remember, this is a team that beat Vanderbilt by 23 and was up by 30 at halftime at Ole Miss. 29. Saint Mary’s 30. Miami 31. Vanderbilt 32. Dayton 33. Michigan State 34. Seton Hall 35. Virginia Tech 36. Nevada 37. Marquette 38. Wake Forest 39. Rhode Island 40. Creighton 41. South Carolina 42. Arkansas 43. Northwestern 44. UNC Wilmington 45. VCU 46. Vermont 47. Xavier 48. East Tennessee State 49. Providence 50. Southern Cal 51. Princeton 52. Kansas State 53. Bucknell 54. Winthrop 55. New Mexico State 56. Florida Gulf Coast 57. South Dakota State 58. Kent State 59. Iona 60. Northern Kentucky 61. Troy 62. Jacksonville State 63. North Dakota 64. Texas Southern 65. UC Davis 66. North Carolina Central 67. New Orleans 68. Mount St. Mary’s More College Hoops Once again, we have a Duke vs. North Carolina argument on our hands. The No. 1 seed in the South Region was awarded to North Carolina despite the fact that the Blue Devils have a better résumé when it comes to their hated rivals. Winning the ACC by two full games, as North Carolina did, is certainly impressive, but the Blue Devils can counter with more top-25 wins than any team in the country (eight) and more top 50 wins than anyone (13) while Duke also owned a 2-1 advantage in the head-to-head matchup with the Tar Heels. Eight of Duke’s 13 top 50 wins and six of their eight top 25 wins came away from Cameron Indoor Stadium. That said, a No. 1 seed has also never had eight losses before, and the Blue Devils suffered the worst loss of any potential No. 1 seed when they fell at home to N.C. State. None of Duke’s accomplishments ultimately mattered when it came time to deciding the No. 1 seeds. It was explained by Mark Hollis of the selection committee after the bracket reveal that the Blue Devils were a No. 4 seed as of Wednesday. The committee uses a process they call a “seed scrub” as the week moves on, which essentially means they compare teams to the team above them and see which profile they like better. As Duke started piling up impressive wins in New York this week, they kept ascending up the seeding chart until they reached Arizona. Since the committee decided that the Wildcats had a stronger case than Duke, that is where the Blue Devils stopped in the seeding debate. Duke, a team who could have easily been a No. 1 seed, was never even compared to the other No. 1 seeds. Based on Duke having five more top-25 wins than Arizona this season, the committee dropped the ball on that one. The only other No. 2 seed who won their conference tournament was Kentucky in the SEC. The Wildcats have been playing better ball lately. They have an impressive 18-4 mark against the top-100 teams, but they only have two top-25 wins on the season. Kentucky may have the talent of a No. 1 seed but they aren’t as proven against elite teams as the No. 1 teams the committee decided on. This season’s No. 1 overall seed had the unique advantage of being able to pick where they played the opening weekend, the top spot took on even more meaning this season. After a strong season that included a Big East championship in both the regular season and conference tournament, Villanova is the No. 1 overall seed as the Wildcats are the best defending champion college basketball has seen since Florida went back-to-back in 2006 and 2007. In a Championship Week where No. 1 seeds like Kansas and North Carolina dropped games early in conference tournaments — and Gonzaga only won the two-bid WCC — Villanova getting the No. 1 overall seed comes as no surprise given their overall body of work and conference-tournament title. With a 17-3 record against the top 100, the Wildcats have the most impressive record among the No. 1 seeds when it comes to facing quality competition as they’ll be a major factor in the East Region. The selection of Gonzaga as the No. 1 seed in the West comes with minimal surprise after the Bulldogs took care of business in the WCC Tournament. With six top-25 wins and a head-to-head win over West Region No. 2 seed Arizona, Gonzaga had a stronger case than any of the Pac-12’s premier trio of teams this season to be a No. 1 seed. Skeptics will always remain when it comes to Gonzaga being a top seed, but they have double the top-25 wins of Arizona, Villanova and UCLA while also having more top-25 wins than Oregon and North Carolina. If the Zags had gone unbeaten they might have been the No. 1 overall seed. Midwest Region No. 1 seed Kansas might have dipped out of the Big 12 Tournament early with a shocking loss to TCU but it ultimately didn’t hurt the Jayhawks too much. Many considered Kansas to be the No. 1 team in the country before that loss to the Horned Frogs as the Jayhawks potentially cost themselves the No. 1 overall seed by losing in Kansas City. With a 16-4 top-100 record and six top-25 wins, Kansas was as impressive as any team in the country when it came to quality wins as the Jayhawks won the Big 12 regular season once again. But back to the point, the way Duke’s seeding was ultimately handled signifies that the committee really valued what teams did in the regular season with regards to conference championships. All four No. 1 seeds won their leagues by multiple games and that seemed to be something the committee respected a great deal. Since Big Ten regular-season champion Purdue also received the league’s best seed as a No. 4 — despite an early quarterfinal loss to Michigan in the Big Ten Tournament — that theory would seem to hold some weight. The Boilers getting a top-four seed after the Big Ten was shut out of February’s seeding reveal is proof that winning a regular-season title matters. Arizona being seeded higher than Duke means the same thing. Since the Wildcats won the Pac-12 regular-season title (and also conference tournament title) the committee clearly liked that Arizona had handled business in their own conference. With seven losses during ACC play, that ultimately left Duke out of the No. 1 seed discussion based on the committee’s values. The Duke and North Carolina debate is what is going to ultimately drive the No. 1 seed discussion over these next few weeks since the committee had three relatively easy selections. You can make a strong case for either of the Tobacco Road rivals to earn a No. 1 seed this season, but the committee at least had a pattern that they followed when it came time to pick the No. 1 seeds. Selection Sunday taught us that conference regular-season championships still hold a lot of weight despite the excitement of winning a conference tournament. The field for the 2017 NCAA Tournament is set. Not surprisingly, the Atlantic Coast Conference led the way with nine bids. The Big East and Big Ten landed seven each followed by the Big 12 with six teams going to the dance. : Here’s the full conference breakdown: (9): North Carolina, Duke, Louisville, Florida State, Virginia, Notre Dame, Miami, Virginia Tech, Wake Forest (7): Villanova, Butler, Creighton, Seton Hall, Marquette, Xavier, Providence (7): Purdue, Minnesota, Maryland, Michigan, Wisconsin, Northwestern, Michigan State (6): Kansas, Baylor, West Virginia, Iowa State, Oklahoma State, Kansas State (5): Kentucky, Florida, South Carolina, Arkansas, Vanderbilt (4): Arizona, Oregon, UCLA, Southern Cal (2): SMU, Cincinnati (3): Dayton, VCU, Rhode Island (2): Gonzaga, Saint Mary’s : American East (Vermont), Atlantic Sun (Florida Gulf Coast), Big Sky (North Dakota), Big South (Winthrop), Big West (UC Davis), Colonia (UNC Wilmington), Conference USA (Middle Tennessee), Horizon (Northern Kentucky), Ivy (Princeton), MAAC (Iona), MAC (Kent State), MEAC (North Carolina Central), Missouri Valley (Wichita State), Mountain West (Nevada), Northeast (Mount St. Mary’s), Ohio Valley (Jacksonville State), Patriot (Bucknell), Southern (East Tennessee State), Southland (New Orleans), SWAC (Texas Southern), Summit (South Dakota State), Sun Belt (Troy), WAC (New Mexico State)

Who doesn’t love a good set of Power Rankings?

With that in mind, let’s dive into the Field of 68 Power Rankings, but instead of breaking down who the best teams in the field are, let’s take a look at the most like teams to win the national title. It’s not simply about how good they are. How good is their path to the Final Four? How likely are they to get picked off by the No. 10 seed that didn’t deserve to be a No. 10 seed? Who was given the gift of being the No. 1 seed guaranteed to face a double-digit seed in the Sweet 16?

The best part about this?

I think you can make an argument for any of the top five to be No. 1, any of the top eight teams on this list can win the national title and I wouldn’t be surprised in the least, and there are a good 17 or 18 teams that I think have a good shot to get to the Final Four.

The tournament this season is going to be a whole lot of fun.

Here are the Power Rankings:

THE CONTENDERS

1. Kansas: The No. 1 seed in the Midwest, the Jayhawks, for my money, are the best team in college basketball when no one is suspended. There is no one in the country I trust more in the final minutes of a close game than Frank Mason III, and he’s not even the best player on the team. That would be Josh Jackson. A potential Iowa State matchup in the Sweet 16 could slip them up, but I think drawing Louisville and Oregon is a good break for the Jayhawks.

2. North Carolina: People don’t remember this, but North Carolina was running Duke off of the floor in the ACC tournament semifinals when Joel Berry II picked up his fourth foul. If Berry stays out of foul trouble, the ‘Is Duke a No. 1 seed?’ thing never becomes a thing.

3. Duke: The Blue Devils are streaking. They seem to have hit top gear during the ACC tournament, and there’s a good chance that they’ll get to the Elite 8 before they play a game where they don’t have the two or three best players on the floor. I bet on talent in March.

4. Villanova: I’ve seen people trying to explain why Duke is better off as the No. 2 seed in the East than the No. 1 seed in the South, because they think Kentucky and UCLA are better than Villanova. Let me explain something to you: Villanova is awesome. I don’t think this way, but it’s not wrong to have the Wildcats No. 1 on this list.

5. Gonzaga: The Zags don’t have the same upper-echelon talent as some of the other teams that are title contender, but their weaknesses are as limited as any title contender’s weaknesses.

6. Arizona: The Wildcats are young and have point guard issues. We know that. They also are loaded with talent and are playing their best basketball at the right time. Allonzo Trier was terrific in the Pac-12 tournament.

7. UCLA: When the Bruins kick into high gear, when they play their best basketball, I don’t think there is anyone in the country that is going to be able to beat them. The concern is what happens on the nights when they don’t play that way.

8. Kentucky: Like UCLA, on the nights where Malik Monk goes bonkers, Kentucky can beat anyone in college basketball. What happens when Monk doesn’t go bonkers? The good news for the Wildcats is that, during the SEC tournament, it looks like Monk’s supporting cast found their groove again.

9. Louisville: I’m worried about Louisville’s ability to score. I’m not worried about their ability to defend, and I’m certainly not concerned about their coaching. Rick Pitino is as good as it gets in NCAA tournament situations.

REGIONAL BREAKDOWNS: East | Midwest | South | West

THEY CAN GET TO A FINAL FOUR

10. Oregon: They lost Chris Boucher, but they still have Dillon Brooks, Jordan Bell is still one of the best defenders in the country and this team looked pretty good playing down the stretch against Arizona on Saturday in the Pac-12 final.

11. Iowa State: The Cyclones are coming off of a win in the Big 12 tournament and also own a win at Phog Allen Fieldhouse this season. They are dangerous, they are peaking at the right time and they can matchup with all the elite teams that thrive playing small-ball.

12. West Virginia: West Virginia’s press is awesome and they’re highly rated on KenPom. Those get me intrigued. The fact that a pressing team is in a region where the top three teams all have one form of point guard issues or another has me thinking they can make a run.

13. Purdue: The Boilermakers were the best team in the Big Ten and have one of the best players in the country in Caleb Swanigan. Combine that with the fact that they surround a pair of dominant low-post scorers with a bevy of sharp-shooters, and I think Matt Painter’s club has a puncher’s chance of getting out of the Midwest.

14. Notre Dame: I love this Notre Dame team. Love them. They’ve now been to back-to-back Elite 8s and have a team this season that may be Mike Brey’s best coaching job to date. You are going to love Bonzie Colson.

RELATED: Printable NCAA Tournament Bracket

SECOND WEEKEND TEAMS

15. Baylor: Yup. I said it. I don’t think Butler can get to a Final Four, although I will freely admit that has more to do with the fact that they are in the same region as Duke and Villanova as it does anything to do with this team. But I will say this: They haven’t looked like the same team for more than a month. Have they been figured out?

16. Butler: The Bulldogs are a weird group. They have the talent of a bubble team, but they’ve swept Villanova and beaten Arizona on a neutral court that was anything but neutral. I do like Butler, but I don’t think they can get past North Carolina in the Sweet 16.

17. Wichita State: The single-most egregious mis-seed. The Shockers rank 8th on KenPom. They are a No. 10 seed in the South. Kentucky is going to have their work cut out for them if they square off in the second round. Just an interesting thing to think about: If the Shockers are going to get to a Final Four, they’re probably going to have to do it by knocking off Kentucky, UCLA and North Carolina.

18. SMU: The Mustangs are another team that got a raw deal on seeding. This is a team that is 11th on KenPom but finds themselves as a No. 6 seed in the Big Dance despite winning the AAC regular season and tournament titles.

19. Florida: I want to rank Florida higher than this because I really like that team, but the problem is that A) they are without starting center John Egbunu, who tore his ACL, and B) they probably need to beat both Villanova and Duke to get to the Final Four. That’s a big ask.

20. Florida State: Florida State is the most talented team that I trust the least. I think that their matchup with FGCU in the first round is really quite intriguing.

21. Virginia: Virginia is still just as good defensively as they were the last three seasons. Their issue? They cannot score at the same level. They got a good matchup in the first round against No. 12 seed UNC Wilmington, one that should keep them from getting picked off early.

22. Wisconsin: I think the Badgers are probably seeded too low at No. 8. They finished second in the Big Ten regular season race and reached the Big Ten title game. Good luck with that second round matchup against Villanova.

23. Maryland: The Terps got a really nice draw. They get a Xavier team that doesn’t have either of their point guard in the first round and then, if seeds hold, face-off with Florida State in the second round

24. Michigan: The Wolverines were the best story during Championship Week, overcoming a plane crash to win the Big Ten tournament despite being the No. 8 seed and playing their opening game in practice jerseys just two hours after landing in DC. They’ve been hot for two months now.

25. Minnesota: I think the Gophers have been undervalued all season long. Their biggest issue this month? They get Middle Tennessee State in the first round.

26. Cincinnati: The Bearcats are a weird team to peg. They have size, experience and toughness, but they’ve been handled the last two times they’ve played a real opponent, both of which were SMU.

27. Oklahoma State: The Pokes are dangerous. Jawun Evans is a top eight point guard in college basketball, Phil Forte is a sniper and head coach Brad Underwood is no stranger to winning in March.

28. Middle Tennessee: I think Middle Tennessee State has the best chance of any mid-major to get to the Sweet 16. They can handle Minnesota, and Butler is probably the best No. 4 seed to be matched up with in this tournament. Remember, this is a team that beat Vanderbilt by 23 and was up by 30 at halftime at Ole Miss.

A WIN WOULD BE NICE

29. Saint Mary’s

30. Miami

31. Vanderbilt

32. Dayton

33. Michigan State

34. Seton Hall

35. Virginia Tech

36. Nevada

37. Marquette

38. Wake Forest

39. Rhode Island

40. Creighton

41. South Carolina

42. Arkansas

43. Northwestern

44. UNC Wilmington

45. VCU

46. Vermont

47. Xavier

48. East Tennessee State

49. Providence

50. Southern Cal

51. Princeton

52. Kansas State

53. Bucknell

54. Winthrop

55. New Mexico State

56. Florida Gulf Coast

57. South Dakota State

58. Kent State

59. Iona

60. Northern Kentucky

61. Troy

62. Jacksonville State

63. North Dakota

64. Texas Southern

65. UC Davis

66. North Carolina Central

67. New Orleans

68. Mount St. Mary’s