Ditch hostile approach of 'Brexit zealots', Europhile Tories urge ministers

Political correspondent    A leading Conservative pro-Europe group has accused the government of pursuing an unnecessarily hostile approach to Brexit, one which risks badly harming relations with Europe and gravely damaging the UK economy. The paper released by the Conservative Group for Europe (CGE), which is supported by MPs including Ken Clarke, Neil Carmichael and Nicholas Soames, warns the government has “an intimidatory stance towards critics” and seems guided by Brexit hardliners. Published before the possible triggering of article 50 on Tuesday, which will formally begin the two-year departure process, the CGE, which was formed in 1969, said it would be the first of a series of papers setting out the pro-Europe Tory view as Brexit happened. It says the government “is in serious danger of asking for the wrong things, in the wrong way and on the wrong timescale” on Brexit, and has no apparent strategy for how it plans to shape a new relationship with Europe. Arguing that it remains possible for the UK to keep single market membership while permitting some controls on freedom of movement, the paper warns that instead the government seems guided by “an ideological hostility” to the European court of justice (ECJ). A more constructive approach was likely to achieve a better result, the CGE said, whereas a more confrontational stance could deliver a deeply damaging final deal for both Britain and the EU, also “blighting relations for a generation”. Edward Bickham, a former Conservative adviser who is a vice chair of the CGE and wrote the report, said the government should switch approach and “deliver a better Brexit that unifies the country and maximises the economic and political interests of both the UK and the EU”. He said: “That will involve disappointing the Brexit zealots. The negotiations will be difficult, but the UK government faces a choice – either pursue a Brexit with a strong UK-EU institutional relationship that could be a win-win, or settle for a deal that destroys prosperity and influence.” Bickham said Theresa May had been “disingenuous in simultaneously urging that the country should come together, while setting out negotiating objectives that polarise opinion”. He said: “The government is mistaken in its rigidity towards the ECJ, and its current approach is likely to cause serious economic dislocation and damage to employment, living standards and public services.” The report argues that while it is theoretically possible for the UK, as threatened by May, to reject a deal with the EU and move to World Trade Organisation terms, this would prove “profoundly damaging”. Given the vital role of the single market for industries including financial services, pharmaceuticals and food, if the UK is to leave it, the government should negotiate a “significant transitional period” to ease the impact, it added. Carmichael, the Stroud MP who chairs the CGE, called the report “a powerful contribution to the necessary debate following the referendum decision as the period of negotiation under article 50 begins”. He said: “Securing the best possible deal for the UK is essential for peace, security and prosperity but the ultimate outcome must also enjoy widespread support in order to enable leavers and remainers to come together in the national interest.”  EU referendum and Brexit   European Union   Europe   Foreign policy   news

A leading Conservative pro-Europe group has accused the government of pursuing an unnecessarily hostile approach to Brexit, one which risks badly harming relations with Europe and gravely damaging the UK economy.

The paper released by the Conservative Group for Europe (CGE), which is supported by MPs including Ken Clarke, Neil Carmichael and Nicholas Soames, warns the government has “an intimidatory stance towards critics” and seems guided by Brexit hardliners.

Published before the possible triggering of article 50 on Tuesday, which will formally begin the two-year departure process, the CGE, which was formed in 1969, said it would be the first of a series of papers setting out the pro-Europe Tory view as Brexit happened.

It says the government “is in serious danger of asking for the wrong things, in the wrong way and on the wrong timescale” on Brexit, and has no apparent strategy for how it plans to shape a new relationship with Europe.

Arguing that it remains possible for the UK to keep single market membership while permitting some controls on freedom of movement, the paper warns that instead the government seems guided by “an ideological hostility” to the European court of justice (ECJ).

A more constructive approach was likely to achieve a better result, the CGE said, whereas a more confrontational stance could deliver a deeply damaging final deal for both Britain and the EU, also “blighting relations for a generation”.

Edward Bickham, a former Conservative adviser who is a vice chair of the CGE and wrote the report, said the government should switch approach and “deliver a better Brexit that unifies the country and maximises the economic and political interests of both the UK and the EU”.

He said: “That will involve disappointing the Brexit zealots. The negotiations will be difficult, but the UK government faces a choice – either pursue a Brexit with a strong UK-EU institutional relationship that could be a win-win, or settle for a deal that destroys prosperity and influence.”

Brexit bill faces last rebel push to guarantee final vote in parliament Read more

Bickham said Theresa May had been “disingenuous in simultaneously urging that the country should come together, while setting out negotiating objectives that polarise opinion”.

He said: “The government is mistaken in its rigidity towards the ECJ, and its current approach is likely to cause serious economic dislocation and damage to employment, living standards and public services.”

The report argues that while it is theoretically possible for the UK, as threatened by May, to reject a deal with the EU and move to World Trade Organisation terms, this would prove “profoundly damaging”.

Given the vital role of the single market for industries including financial services, pharmaceuticals and food, if the UK is to leave it, the government should negotiate a “significant transitional period” to ease the impact, it added.

Carmichael, the Stroud MP who chairs the CGE, called the report “a powerful contribution to the necessary debate following the referendum decision as the period of negotiation under article 50 begins”.

He said: “Securing the best possible deal for the UK is essential for peace, security and prosperity but the ultimate outcome must also enjoy widespread support in order to enable leavers and remainers to come together in the national interest.”