Kellyanne Conway mocked for 'spy microwaves' claims during interview about Obama 'wire-tapping'
Kellyanne Conway mocked for 'spy microwaves' claims during interview about Obama 'wire-tapping'
ellyanne Conway has been the subject of derision after making bizarre claims about the surveillance of the Donald Trump campaign. After being asked about the claims he was wire-tapped by Barack Obama, the advisor suggested enemies could potentially spy on the President through televisions and by putting hidden cameras in microwaves. Ms Conway, who is one of the President's most senior advisors and helped run his campaign, said wire-tapping could be the tip of the iceberg when it came to monitoring Donald Trump She explained on USA Today: “What I can say is there are many ways to surveil each other. “You can surveil someone through their phones, certainly through their television sets — any number of ways.” The advisor then claimed monitoring could be done with “microwaves that turn into cameras,” adding: “We know this is a fact of modern life.” Many mocked this claim on social media, saying they would be sure to check their hair and make-up before warming up their food from now on. Per my orders @KellyannePolls & @PressSec r throwing out all #WhiteHouse microwaves! Can't let Obama spy w/microwaves! Here's a pic of Sean! pic.twitter.com/ZIp5dxUb5a @trumpwatch940  @KellyannePolls Microwaves are the new spy cameras? At least something productive will be done in my kitchen. Is there a crazier group of people than this? @ddale8  @eschor Finally someone is speaking up about spy microwaves and the secret plot to record Trump - aka Operation Hot Pocket Did Kelly Ann Conway actually say in an interview that microwaves could turn into cameras and used to spy on Trump? Wth?? Better unplug your microwaves, kids; Kellyanne Conway says the gov can use them as spy cams. Oh, & your drier is a direct line to Langley! pic.twitter.com/22NdyF4Bug s Conway offered no evidence to back up her claims. The White House is sticking to its claims that Donald Trump was wire-tapped by Barack Obama. President Donald Trump does not believe FBI director James Comey’s insistence that Trump Tower was not wiretapped . Sarah Huckabee Sanders, deputy communications director, was asked whether Mr Trump believed Mr Comey’s denial. "No, I don't think he does," she told Good Morning America, last week. She said the president "wants the truth to come out to the American people,” adding: “He is asking that it be done through the House Intelligence Committee, and that that be the process that we go through." er comments came as Kellyanne Conway, Mr Trump’s senior aide, told Fox News on Monday that "credible news sources" suggested there was politically motivated activity during the campaign. She added that as president, Mr Trump "has information and intelligence that the rest of us do not."

Kellyanne Conway has been the subject of derision after making bizarre claims about the surveillance of the Donald Trump campaign.

After being asked about the claims he was wire-tapped by Barack Obama, the advisor suggested enemies could potentially spy on the President through televisions and by putting hidden cameras in microwaves.

Ms Conway, who is one of the President's most senior advisors and helped run his campaign, said wire-tapping could be the tip of the iceberg when it came to monitoring Donald Trump

She explained on USA Today: “What I can say is there are many ways to surveil each other.

“You can surveil someone through their phones, certainly through their television sets — any number of ways.”

The advisor then claimed monitoring could be done with “microwaves that turn into cameras,” adding: “We know this is a fact of modern life.”

Many mocked this claim on social media, saying they would be sure to check their hair and make-up before warming up their food from now on.