Vista to Buy DH Corp for $2.03 Billion, Combine With Misys
Vista to Buy DH Corp for $2.03 Billion, Combine With Misys
Vista Equity Partners LLC agreed to buy DH Corp. in a deal that values the Canadian financial services provider at about C$2.73 billion ($2.03 billion), aiming to create a financial technology powerhouse by combining it with Misys Ltd. Vista will pay C$25.50 a share in cash, according to a statement Monday. Including debt, the transaction for the Toronto-based company is valued at C$4.8 billion. DH Corp., founded in 1875 as Davis + Henderson, has been attempting to transform itself into a financial technology firm from a traditional check-printing company in recent years as demand for paper checks declined. It completed a series of acquisitions to that end, including a $1.25 billion purchase of payment-technology provider Fundtech Ltd. in 2015. The price is an 11 percent premium over DH Corp.’s closing price Friday of C$23.04 a share, and 36 percent above where shares closed on Dec. 5, before reports that the company was exploring strategic alternatives. DH Corp. said two days later it was working with Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Canada to explore a sale. Vista is paying about 15.5 times DH Corp.’s trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s in line with similar deals in the industry, including Vista’s 2016 acquisition of software maker Solera Holdings Inc. for $6.5 billion including debt. Vista, which has offices in Austin, Chicago and San Francisco, focuses on software and technology investments. It pulled the planned initial public offering of Misys in October, citing market conditions. Vista acquired Misys in 2012 for 1.3 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in a deal that took the company private. Shares of DH Corp. have fallen 37 percent in the past year through Friday, as the decline in its check-making business accelerated faster than anticipated. The company’s services are used by 8,000 banks, specialty lenders, credit unions, governments and corporations, according to its website. It has more than 5,500 employees worldwide, with revenue of almost C$1.7 billion in 2016. The deal brings the total value of private equity transactions involving Canadian targets this year to about $3.5 billion, slightly above the $3.1 billion announced during the same period in 2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley, Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. advised Vista on the transaction, with Kirkland & Ellis and Goodmans providing legal advice. DH Corp. worked with Credit Suisse and RBC, with legal counsel from Stikeman Elliott and Cravath Swaine & Moore.

Vista Equity Partners LLC agreed to buy DH Corp. in a deal that values the Canadian financial services provider at about C$2.73 billion ($2.03 billion), aiming to create a financial technology powerhouse by combining it with Misys Ltd.

Vista will pay C$25.50 a share in cash, according to a statement Monday. Including debt, the transaction for the Toronto-based company is valued at C$4.8 billion.

DH Corp., founded in 1875 as Davis + Henderson, has been attempting to transform itself into a financial technology firm from a traditional check-printing company in recent years as demand for paper checks declined. It completed a series of acquisitions to that end, including a $1.25 billion purchase of payment-technology provider Fundtech Ltd. in 2015.

The price is an 11 percent premium over DH Corp.’s closing price Friday of C$23.04 a share, and 36 percent above where shares closed on Dec. 5, before reports that the company was exploring strategic alternatives. DH Corp. said two days later it was working with Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Canada to explore a sale.

Vista is paying about 15.5 times DH Corp.’s trailing 12-month earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s in line with similar deals in the industry, including Vista’s 2016 acquisition of software maker Solera Holdings Inc. for $6.5 billion including debt.

Vista, which has offices in Austin, Chicago and San Francisco, focuses on software and technology investments. It pulled the planned initial public offering of Misys in October, citing market conditions. Vista acquired Misys in 2012 for 1.3 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in a deal that took the company private.

Shares of DH Corp. have fallen 37 percent in the past year through Friday, as the decline in its check-making business accelerated faster than anticipated. The company’s services are used by 8,000 banks, specialty lenders, credit unions, governments and corporations, according to its website. It has more than 5,500 employees worldwide, with revenue of almost C$1.7 billion in 2016.

The deal brings the total value of private equity transactions involving Canadian targets this year to about $3.5 billion, slightly above the $3.1 billion announced during the same period in 2016, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Morgan Stanley, Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. advised Vista on the transaction, with Kirkland & Ellis and Goodmans providing legal advice. DH Corp. worked with Credit Suisse and RBC, with legal counsel from Stikeman Elliott and Cravath Swaine & Moore.