14 things we learned from Ewan McGregor's glorious Reddit AMA
14 things we learned from Ewan McGregor's glorious Reddit AMA
It's not every day you get the chance to ask Ewan McGregor how his penis is doing and actually get a response. If ever there's a format for such exchanges, though, it's most definitely a Reddit AMA. SEE ALSO: 'Trainspotting' cast recreate legendary film poster, 20 years on On Sunday, McGregor took part in one to promote 's U.S. release. From his favourite home-cooked meal to his upcoming appearance in Season 3, here are some things we learned. 1. The last time he watched . Image: reddit 2. How many takes he need to master the sadistic smile from the trailer . Image: reddit 3. That he's more than happy to defend his fans. Image: reddit 4. That he's not ruling out . Image: reddit 5. That he's playing two brothers in Season 3. Image: reddit 6. What it was like for him growing up in Scotland. Image: reddit 7. His secret to never ageing. Image: reddit 8. His thoughts on playing heroes and villains. Image: reddit 9. That he has indeed met Iggy Pop. Image: reddit 10. How he learned the "choose life" monologue. Image: reddit 11. How quickly he got back into character for . Image: reddit 12. What he'd be doing if he wasn't an actor. Image: reddit 13. His favourite home-cooked meal. Image: reddit 14. And finally, how his penis is doing. Image: reddit You the best, Ewan. WATCH: Brush up on some 'Trainspotting' trivia before the sequel

It's not every day you get the chance to ask Ewan McGregor how his penis is doing and actually get a response.

If ever there's a format for such exchanges, though, it's most definitely a Reddit AMA.

On Sunday, McGregor took part in one to promote T2 Trainspotting's U.S. release. From his favourite home-cooked meal to his upcoming appearance in Fargo Season 3, here are some things we learned.

1. The last time he watched Trainspotting.

2. How many takes he need to master the sadistic smile from the trailer.





3. That he's more than happy to defend his Trainspotting fans.

4. That he's not ruling out Trainspotting 3.

5. That he's playing two brothers in Fargo Season 3.

6. What it was like for him growing up in Scotland.

7. His secret to never ageing.

8. His thoughts on playing heroes and villains.

9. That he has indeed met Iggy Pop.

10. How he learned the "choose life" monologue.

11. How quickly he got back into character for T2.

12. What he'd be doing if he wasn't an actor.

13. His favourite home-cooked meal.

14. And finally, how his penis is doing.

You are the best, Ewan.