Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway: 'I don't have any evidence' of Trump wiretapping claim
Kellyanne Conway: 'I don't have any evidence' of Trump wiretapping claim
Shares                Kellyanne Conway , counselor to the president, said this morning that she doesn’t have "any evidence" supporting President Trump 's explosive wiretapping claim against his predecessor but added that she's glad the House Intelligence Committee is investigating the allegation. “The answer is I don’t have any evidence and I’m very happy that the House intelligence committee are investigating,” Conway said today on “ Good Morning America .” Trump said in a series of unsubstantiated tweets earlier this month that President Obama had ordered Trump Tower phones to be tapped last fall. The White House has so far failed to provide any evidence to back up the charge. The leading members of the House Intelligence Committee have requested that the Justice Department respond by today with any evidence of the president’s claims. Conway said that previous comments she made linking WikiLeaks ' release of nearly 8,000 documents that purportedly reveal secrets about the CIA's tools for breaking into targeted computers, cellphones and smart TVs to Trump's claims were about "surveillance generally” and not meant to be taken as specific proof that his allegation was true. Conway also touched on other issues, including the GOP replacement for the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which has drawn criticism from Republicans and Democrats alike. She framed the debate around the bill as a start to fixing the ACA, which she described as being "unsustainable." She said the Democratic Party had come up with "no ideas." "It’s actually in a downward spiral," she said of Obama's signature legislation. "It's unsustainable and unaffordable."  Shares                  Kellyanne Conway: 'I don't have any evidence' of Trump wiretapping claim   Abrupt dismissals leave US attorneys scrambling   Shots fired at Ferguson protest sparked by new documentary   Republican congressman draws fire for racially-charged tweet   'Carlos the Jackal' back on trial for 1974 Paris attack   Female jogger uses self-defense tactics to stop assault   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Officials warn of global religious extremism threat to China   WikiLeaks' latest release raises questions about who and why   Familiar Democratic name Kennedy fights GOP on health care   Turkey formally protests minister's treatment in Netherlands   Car bomb blast kills 6 near hotel in Somalia's capital   Death toll in Guatemala children's shelter fire rises to 40   Some parts of 'Obamacare' are working fairly well   GOP infighting over health care, other issues belies victory   GOP looking to avoid lengthy health care debate Dems faced   Scientists race to prevent wipeout of world's coral reefs   Downed bridge splits Big Sur, closes part of coast highway   Miami police officer relieved of duties after arrest on armed robbery   Criss Angel speaks out after losing consciousness in failed stunt   Chris Harrison says Nick Viall might be the first Bachelor 'to be left at the end'   'Beauty and the Beast'-inspired travel spots

Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, said this morning that she doesn’t have "any evidence" supporting President Trump's explosive wiretapping claim against his predecessor but added that she's glad the House Intelligence Committee is investigating the allegation.

“The answer is I don’t have any evidence and I’m very happy that the House intelligence committee are investigating,” Conway said today on “Good Morning America.”

Trump said in a series of unsubstantiated tweets earlier this month that President Obama had ordered Trump Tower phones to be tapped last fall.

The White House has so far failed to provide any evidence to back up the charge. The leading members of the House Intelligence Committee have requested that the Justice Department respond by today with any evidence of the president’s claims.

Conway said that previous comments she made linking WikiLeaks' release of nearly 8,000 documents that purportedly reveal secrets about the CIA's tools for breaking into targeted computers, cellphones and smart TVs to Trump's claims were about "surveillance generally” and not meant to be taken as specific proof that his allegation was true.

Conway also touched on other issues, including the GOP replacement for the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which has drawn criticism from Republicans and Democrats alike.

She framed the debate around the bill as a start to fixing the ACA, which she described as being "unsustainable." She said the Democratic Party had come up with "no ideas."

"It’s actually in a downward spiral," she said of Obama's signature legislation. "It's unsustainable and unaffordable."