Northeast blizzard could dump 18 inches of snow on New York
Northeast blizzard could dump 18 inches of snow on New York
Shares                The Northeast is bracing for winter's last hurrah — a blizzard expected to sweep the New York region starting Monday with possibly the season's biggest snowstorm dumping up to 18 inches on Central Park. The National Weather Service issued a blizzard watch Sunday for coastal regions including New York City and surrounding areas of Long Island, Westchester County and Connecticut. A winter storm watch was in effect for a larger area of the Northeast: New Jersey , Pennsylvania and New England. In New York City, forecasters said the first snow is expected late Monday or just after midnight Tuesday, with up to 4 inches falling by dawn. Heavy snow the rest of the day could pile 10 to 14 inches more of white stuff, with sustained winds of about 30 mph and wind gusts of up to 50 mph. "This would certainly be the biggest snowstorm of the 2017 winter season in New York City," said Faye Barthold, a weather service meteorologist based on Long Island. On Long Island, a snowfall of 12 to 18 inches was forecast along with equally strong winds and visibility of a quarter mile or less. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Sunday that the New York State Emergency Operations Center will be activated Monday evening, with stockpiles of sandbags, generators and pumps at the ready, as well as snow-removal vehicles and salt spreaders. The New York City Department of Sanitation is taking similar action and also notifying additional workers to supplement staff if needed. Once the nor'easter hits, motorists in New York state can call 511 or access www.511ny.org to check on road conditions and transit information. Other areas, including the lower Hudson Valley and northeastern New Jersey, also could get 12 to 18 inches of snow. But those areas were not under a blizzard watch because high winds and low visibility were not expected. The severe weather would arrive just a week after the region saw temperatures climb into the 60s. Sunny days and T-shirt-wearing temperatures made it seem like winter had made an early exit. But the chilly weather and snow some areas got Friday may prove to be just a teaser. Shares                  Northeast blizzard could dump 18 inches of snow on New York   Kellyanne Conway: 'I don't have any evidence' of Trump wiretapping claim   Abrupt dismissals leave US attorneys scrambling   Shots fired at Ferguson protest sparked by new documentary   Republican congressman draws fire for racially-charged tweet   'Carlos the Jackal' back on trial for 1974 Paris attack   Female jogger uses self-defense tactics to stop assault   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Officials warn of global religious extremism threat to China   WikiLeaks' latest release raises questions about who and why   Familiar Democratic name Kennedy fights GOP on health care   Turkey formally protests minister's treatment in Netherlands   Car bomb blast kills 6 near hotel in Somalia's capital   Death toll in Guatemala children's shelter fire rises to 40   Some parts of 'Obamacare' are working fairly well   GOP infighting over health care, other issues belies victory   GOP looking to avoid lengthy health care debate Dems faced   Scientists race to prevent wipeout of world's coral reefs   Downed bridge splits Big Sur, closes part of coast highway   Miami police officer relieved of duties after arrest on armed robbery   Criss Angel speaks out after losing consciousness in failed stunt   Chris Harrison says Nick Viall might be the first Bachelor 'to be left at the end'   'Beauty and the Beast'-inspired travel spots

The Northeast is bracing for winter's last hurrah — a blizzard expected to sweep the New York region starting Monday with possibly the season's biggest snowstorm dumping up to 18 inches on Central Park.

The National Weather Service issued a blizzard watch Sunday for coastal regions including New York City and surrounding areas of Long Island, Westchester County and Connecticut.

A winter storm watch was in effect for a larger area of the Northeast: New Jersey, Pennsylvania and New England.

In New York City, forecasters said the first snow is expected late Monday or just after midnight Tuesday, with up to 4 inches falling by dawn. Heavy snow the rest of the day could pile 10 to 14 inches more of white stuff, with sustained winds of about 30 mph and wind gusts of up to 50 mph.

"This would certainly be the biggest snowstorm of the 2017 winter season in New York City," said Faye Barthold, a weather service meteorologist based on Long Island.

On Long Island, a snowfall of 12 to 18 inches was forecast along with equally strong winds and visibility of a quarter mile or less.

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Sunday that the New York State Emergency Operations Center will be activated Monday evening, with stockpiles of sandbags, generators and pumps at the ready, as well as snow-removal vehicles and salt spreaders.

The New York City Department of Sanitation is taking similar action and also notifying additional workers to supplement staff if needed.

Once the nor'easter hits, motorists in New York state can call 511 or access www.511ny.org to check on road conditions and transit information.

Other areas, including the lower Hudson Valley and northeastern New Jersey, also could get 12 to 18 inches of snow. But those areas were not under a blizzard watch because high winds and low visibility were not expected.

The severe weather would arrive just a week after the region saw temperatures climb into the 60s. Sunny days and T-shirt-wearing temperatures made it seem like winter had made an early exit. But the chilly weather and snow some areas got Friday may prove to be just a teaser.