Christina Grimmie's Family Releases Animated Superhero Video for 'Invisible'
Christina Grimmie's Family Releases Animated Superhero Video for 'Invisible'
Christina Grimmie's Family Releases Animated Superhero Video for 'Invisible'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Christina Grimmie 's family released a new animated video for her posthumous single "Invisible" over the weekend, two days before what would have been the singer'sÂ 23rd birthday.Â Grimmie, who wasÂ murdered by a fan last June during an autograph signing, would have turned 23 on Sunday (March 12). In a message posted along with the anime-style clip, her family wrote, "Introducing the world premiere of the official video for INVISIBLE. As many of you know, Christina LOVED video games and had a special fondness for anime. We created this video as a special tribute to honor that love and her desire to always bring light and love into the heart of others."  In the clip directed by Stephen Leonard of Giant Pancake,Â GrimmieÂ receives a magic hoverboard from a pink creature and sails through a city vaporizing evil creatures with beams of light that blast from her hands. Â As noted by , the late singer's brother, Marcus Grimmie, posted a series of tributes to his sister over the weekend. -- I know you would love this sis -- A post shared by Mark Grimmie (@grimmiereaper) on Â Happy birthday sis. I beat Zelda for you at 12 o'clock this morning. I know you would be proud and that you would have beaten it before me. Miss you so much. Never felt so good beating Ganon -- A post shared by Mark Grimmie (@grimmiereaper) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Christina Grimmie's family released a new animated video for her posthumous single "Invisible" over the weekend, two days before what would have been the The Voice singer'sÂ 23rd birthday.Â Grimmie, who wasÂ murdered by a fan last June during an autograph signing, would have turned 23 on Sunday (March 12).

In a message posted along with the anime-style clip, her family wrote, "Introducing the world premiere of the official video for INVISIBLE. As many of you know, Christina LOVED video games and had a special fondness for anime. We created this video as a special tribute to honor that love and her desire to always bring light and love into the heart of others."

In the clip directed by Stephen Leonard of Giant Pancake,Â GrimmieÂ receives a magic hoverboard from a pink creature and sails through a city vaporizing evil creatures with beams of light that blast from her hands.



Â

As noted by E! News, the late singer's brother, Marcus Grimmie, posted a series of tributes to his sister over the weekend.

Â -- I know you would love this sis -- A post shared by Mark Grimmie (@grimmiereaper) on Mar 11, 2017 at 9:37am PST

Â