DeMarcus Ware, 8th all-time in sacks, announces retirement
9-time Pro Bowler Ware announces retirement
9-time Pro Bowler Ware announces retirement Behind the numbers: Who really got best NFL free-agent deals? Kurt Warner tells Brock Osweiler: If released, 'find the best situation for you' On same day he joins Patriots, Stephon Gilmore names baby daughter Gisele Nick Foles signing signals end of Chase Daniel with Eagles Eric Weddle's next recruiting target for the Ravens: Chargers fans Did Chiefs make right decision letting Nick Foles go? Eddie Lacy says visit with Vikings was 'pretty cool' Devonta Freeman's plan: Stay with Falcons, pay for sisters' college Panthers defensive end Julius Peppers: 'It actually feels like I never left' Jets should take quick trip to corner market before it's too late What's going on with Giants, Johnathan Hankins and the DT market? Torrey Smith eager to rebound after some 'horrible' days with 49ers Martellus Bennett to wear 80 for Packers; Ty Montgomery stays with 88 Dontari Poe another potential piece of the Jaguars' defensive restocking Ravens spend more in one week in free agency than last two years combined Michigan native T.J. Lang solidifies right side of Lions' offensive line Steelers, Patriots follow far different blueprints in free agency Bengals hosting RB Joe Mixon for a visit, sources say Alshon Jeffery's goal? Help make Eagles' Carson Wentz an MVP Why the Browns made a mistake in letting Pryor escape to the Redskins Where will Seahawks turn if they don't land T.J. Lang? Tony Jefferson gets emotional reflecting on 'long road' to Ravens Karlos Dansby hopes third time in Arizona is Super Bowl title charm Cowboys suffer losses to open free agency, but hope isn't lost yet New Patriot Dwayne Allen: 'I never thought a Colt could get traded here' Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment DeMarcus Ware announced via Twitter on Monday that he is retiring. It's time .... pic.twitter.com/qlXpcNn12b — D-Ware (@DeMarcusWare) March 13, 2017 Ware came to the Broncos as part of the free-agency binge in 2014 when cornerback Aqib Talib , wide receiver Emmanuel Sanders and safety T.J. Ward were also signed. All four players were selected to at least one Pro Bowl since then. Linebacker Von Miller said a big part of his rebound from his 2013 suspension for violating the league's substance abuse policy to a perennial defensive player of the year candidate has "been because of DeMarcus. I have so many reasons to thank him." Ware, 34, has been a team captain in his time with the Broncos and universally respected in the locker room. He said in the days before the Super Bowl that he planned to return from back surgery that sent him to injured reserve just before the regular-season finale. Back troubles have been a part of his career, but especially the last two seasons with the Broncos. His 2016 season was especially difficult as he missed most of the offseason work with an infection in his back that required repeated IV antibiotics to treat. He also missed five games with a fractured forearm last season. A nine-time Pro Bowl selection, he'll turn 35 in late July and is eighth all time in sacks with 138.5. Ware needed one sack to tie newly minted Hall of Famer Jason Taylor, and with four sacks he would have passed Michael Strahan and move into sixth place all time. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

DeMarcus Ware announced via Twitter on Monday that he is retiring.

Ware came to the Broncos as part of the free-agency binge in 2014 when cornerback Aqib Talib, wide receiver Emmanuel Sanders and safety T.J. Ward were also signed. All four players were selected to at least one Pro Bowl since then.

Linebacker Von Miller said a big part of his rebound from his 2013 suspension for violating the league's substance abuse policy to a perennial defensive player of the year candidate has "been because of DeMarcus. I have so many reasons to thank him."

Ware, 34, has been a team captain in his time with the Broncos and universally respected in the locker room. He said in the days before the Super Bowl that he planned to return from back surgery that sent him to injured reserve just before the regular-season finale.

DeMarcus Ware retires eighth all time in sacks with 138.5. Andrew Hancock for ESPN

Back troubles have been a part of his career, but especially the last two seasons with the Broncos. His 2016 season was especially difficult as he missed most of the offseason work with an infection in his back that required repeated IV antibiotics to treat. He also missed five games with a fractured forearm last season.

A nine-time Pro Bowl selection, he'll turn 35 in late July and is eighth all time in sacks with 138.5.

Ware needed one sack to tie newly minted Hall of Famer Jason Taylor, and with four sacks he would have passed Michael Strahan and move into sixth place all time.

ESPN's Jeff Legwold contributed to this report.