Girl, 4, survives trek through wolf-infested forest
Girl, 4, survives six-hour trek through wolf-infested Russian forest


A young girl dubbed the real life Little Red Riding Hood has spoken of her ordeal in walking for six hours through a wolf-infested forest in a temperature of minus 34C.

Little Saglana Salchak was sent out by her blind grandfather to go to her nearest neighbour in a remote region of Siberia after her beloved grandmother suddenly died.

Her five mile trek through shoulder-high snowdrifts took six hours in treacherous conditions, and was mostly in total darkness, starting at 5am, but insists she was never scared.

The girl - who was fighting hunger - has been praised for her astonishing bravery by local leaders in the Tuva republic, and a rescue chief said she was 'lucky' not to have been eaten alive by a wolf pack.

It has emerged the child's mother could face negligence charges.

Saglana Salchak, four, holds two plastic bags as she stands in the snow in Russia

Under this pile of snow is a river that Saglana walked alongside in her search for help

Salgana Salcjak wearing a bobble hat with the word 'smile' written on it holds hands with with local official Sayana Chypsyn

Contrary to earlier reports, the girl suffered hypothermia from the cold, but she successfully made it to her neighbour's home - who sounded the alarm to rescue her grandfather.

Now in care after a hospital stay, Saglana - who has since marked her fifth birthday - said: 'It was very cold and I was so hungry.

'But I wasn't scared.

'I was just walking, walking, walking.

'And I finally got there.'

Her route last month from her remote farmstead was partly along a frozen river.

She told how she tried to follow the tracks of her neighbours horse-drawn sleigh.

These were still visible in the snow from an earlier visit, and she knew they would lead to his farm.

Saglana with her mother Eleanora, who could potentially face negligence charges

But after the death of her 60-year-old grandmother, Saglana may be faced with a new ordeal.

The girl's mother Eleonora, 31, could be charged with negligence for leaving the girl with the grandparents who 'could not ensure the safety of the child'.

Her grandfather is registered blind and the grandmother was known to have a heart condition, say reports.

Despite this, regional governor Sholban Kara-ool has offered for the girl and her mother to stay at a health spa to help the child over her ordeal.

Saglana plays with a toy after her grueling trek to find help after her grandfather sent her out

Local officials comfort the four-year-old after her brutal walk in temperatures as low as -34C

Meanwhile, Saglana has been praised for her bravery and composure in walking through bone-chilling temperatures.

Semen Rubtsov, head of the search and rescue in Tuva, said she was a 'professional' who knew to take matches with her, enabling her to light a fire if needed.

The child of a shepherd family, she was used to 'extreme situations', he said.

'Such children in Siberia learn to ride a horse as soon as they start walking - and can manage great distances.

'They know the dangers of the taiga, and how to counter them.

'This girl acts as a professional already. She took the matches to light a fire, in case.

'The difficulty was that she had to make her way through snowdrifts.

Semen Rubtsov, head of the search and rescue in Tuva

'There also was a great danger - wild animals.

'Bears are hibernating now, but Tuva is crowded with wolves.

'They plague the cattle, and shepherds groan because of them.

'In the dark she could easily have stumbled on a pack.

'This girl was lucky that she did not meet them.

'Her only hope would have been to climb a tree.'

He claimed that the temperature - colder than the coldest ever recorded in the UK - would not have seemed unduly extreme to her.

She was dressed in a sheepskin coat and felt boots.

'It was not extreme cold by our standards, only minus 34C,' he said.

'This is generally a warm winter.'

A social worker caring for her said: 'Saglana is an open-minded, intelligent and tender girl.

'We are proud that this small heroine from the taiga is growing up here.

'We treat her like our own daughter, and kiss and hug her each day.

'After all, not every four year old child manages to perform the feat that she accomplished.'

The social worker said that Saglana becomes 'sad' when people mention her grandmother.

She remains 'sad' over the grandmother.

Saglana Salchak (in the white hat) sits on the lap of local official Sayana Chypsyn with her mother Eleonora (left) at a social centre

Footage from a news programme of Saglana recovering from the trek with her mother

'She is very upset by her death,' said the social worker, according to The Siberian Times.

'To help distract her from grieving, we have organised a campaign - Let's help Saglana.

'Complete strangers have already sent a lot of gifts to her.'

Local politicians have lined up to visit her and praise her bravery.

The home she shared with her grandparents lies some 155 miles southeast of Kyzyl, the capital of the Tuva Republic.

The area is exceptionally remote and close to one of Siberia's mot mysterious landmarks, the Por-Bajin fortress, a 1,300 year old mountain palace rumoured to have been built 'for a tragic Chinese princess'.