Penn State Ex-Officials Plead Guilty in Sandusky Case
Penn State Ex-Officials Plead Guilty in Sandusky Case
HARRISBURG, Pa. — Two former Penn State University administrators pleaded guilty Monday to misdemeanor child endangerment for their roles in the Jerry Sandusky child molestation case, more than five years after the scandal engulfed the school and led to the downfall of Joe Paterno, the coach of the football team. Ex-Athletic Director Tim Curley and former university Vice President Gary Schultz originally were charged with felonies. The reduced charge is punishable by up to five years in prison. Penn State ex-President Graham Spanier was also charged in the case. He was not in the Harrisburg courtroom Monday morning, though his lawyers were. His prosecution appears to be moving forward, with jury selection scheduled for next week. The three handled a 2001 complaint by a graduate assistant who said he saw Mr. Sandusky, a retired defensive football coach, sexually abusing a boy in a team shower. They did not report the matter to police or child welfare authorities but told Mr. Sandusky he was not allowed to bring children to the campus. Advertisement Mr. Sandusky was not arrested until a decade later. He was convicted in 2012 of 45 counts of sexual abuse of 10 boys, and is serving a 30- to 60-year state prison term. Shortly after Mr. Sandusky’s arrest, Hall of Fame football coach Joe Paterno was fired. Mr. Schultz and Mr. Curley were arrested in 2011, and Mr. Spanier in 2012. The three former administrators at Penn State’s flagship campus in State College had also faced charges of conspiracy. Each felony count carried the possibility of seven years in prison. Their case has dragged on for years because of a dispute about their representation during a grand jury appearance by Penn State’s then-chief counsel Cynthia Baldwin. That legal fight prompted the Superior Court decision that threw out several charges, including perjury and obstruction. Advertisement Penn State’s costs related to the Sandusky scandal are approaching a quarter-billion dollars. The scandal’s overall cost to the school includes a recent $12 million verdict in the whistle-blower and defamation case brought by the former assistant coach Mike McQueary, an ex-graduate assistant whose testimony helped convict Mr. Sandusky in 2012. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy The university has settled with 33 people over allegations they were sexually abused by Mr. Sandusky, and has made total payments to them of $93 million. The N.C.A.A. also levied a $48 million penalty against the university that is now financing anti-child-abuse efforts in Pennsylvania. Advertisement Mr. McQueary went to Mr. Paterno’s home a day after the shower encounter to discuss what he had seen. Mr. Paterno alerted Mr. Curley, the athletic director at the time, and Mr. Schultz, a vice president at the time. Mr. McQueary met with both of them about a week later. Nine years later, an anonymous email sent to a district attorney led investigators to first approach Mr. McQueary in the case. Mr. Paterno’s handling of the complaint was eventually cited by trustees as one of the reasons he had been fired in late 2011. Mr. Paterno died a few months later. He was never charged with a crime. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.          SPORTS OF THE TIMES

Photo

HARRISBURG, Pa. — Two former Penn State University administrators pleaded guilty Monday to misdemeanor child endangerment for their roles in the Jerry Sandusky child molestation case, more than five years after the scandal engulfed the school and led to the downfall of Joe Paterno, the coach of the football team.

Ex-Athletic Director Tim Curley and former university Vice President Gary Schultz originally were charged with felonies. The reduced charge is punishable by up to five years in prison.

Penn State ex-President Graham Spanier was also charged in the case. He was not in the Harrisburg courtroom Monday morning, though his lawyers were. His prosecution appears to be moving forward, with jury selection scheduled for next week.

The three handled a 2001 complaint by a graduate assistant who said he saw Mr. Sandusky, a retired defensive football coach, sexually abusing a boy in a team shower. They did not report the matter to police or child welfare authorities but told Mr. Sandusky he was not allowed to bring children to the campus.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Sandusky was not arrested until a decade later. He was convicted in 2012 of 45 counts of sexual abuse of 10 boys, and is serving a 30- to 60-year state prison term.

Shortly after Mr. Sandusky’s arrest, Hall of Fame football coach Joe Paterno was fired.

Mr. Schultz and Mr. Curley were arrested in 2011, and Mr. Spanier in 2012.

Photo

The three former administrators at Penn State’s flagship campus in State College had also faced charges of conspiracy. Each felony count carried the possibility of seven years in prison.

Their case has dragged on for years because of a dispute about their representation during a grand jury appearance by Penn State’s then-chief counsel Cynthia Baldwin. That legal fight prompted the Superior Court decision that threw out several charges, including perjury and obstruction.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Penn State’s costs related to the Sandusky scandal are approaching a quarter-billion dollars.

The scandal’s overall cost to the school includes a recent $12 million verdict in the whistle-blower and defamation case brought by the former assistant coach Mike McQueary, an ex-graduate assistant whose testimony helped convict Mr. Sandusky in 2012.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The university has settled with 33 people over allegations they were sexually abused by Mr. Sandusky, and has made total payments to them of $93 million.

The N.C.A.A. also levied a $48 million penalty against the university that is now financing anti-child-abuse efforts in Pennsylvania.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McQueary went to Mr. Paterno’s home a day after the shower encounter to discuss what he had seen. Mr. Paterno alerted Mr. Curley, the athletic director at the time, and Mr. Schultz, a vice president at the time. Mr. McQueary met with both of them about a week later.

Nine years later, an anonymous email sent to a district attorney led investigators to first approach Mr. McQueary in the case.

Mr. Paterno’s handling of the complaint was eventually cited by trustees as one of the reasons he had been fired in late 2011. Mr. Paterno died a few months later. He was never charged with a crime.