Trump Labor Nominee Acosta to Get Backup on TV Airwaves
Trump Labor Nominee Acosta to Get Republican TV Advertising Push
A Republican group said it’s launching an advertising campaign to support President Donald Trump’s choice for U.S. labor secretary, R. Alexander Acosta, as his confirmation hearing nears. The push comes as the Trump administration bemoans unfilled cabinet seats that it blames on Senate Democrats. America Rising Squared’s TV ad highlights Acosta’s personal biography, saying, “The son of Cuban immigrants, Alex Acosta was the first in his family to attend college. “As a prosecutor, he brought down drug lords, radical Islamic terrorists and corrupt lobbyists,” the 30-second ad says. “Now, Acosta’s nominated to lead the Labor Department , where he’ll seek justice and jobs for American workers.” The campaign will be backed by a six-figure dollar amount, said Jeremy Adler, a spokesman for the group. Acosta, 48, was Trump’s first Hispanic cabinet nominee. He replaced CKE Restaurants Inc. CEO Andrew Puzder, who withdrew his nomination last month after several Republican senators withheld their support, including Susan Collins of Maine and Tim Scott of South Carolina. Acosta’s confirmation hearing in Tennessee Senator Lamar Alexander’s Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee is slated for March 22. The Acosta TV ad is the first for any entity in the America Rising family, which also includes a super-PAC, since Trump became president. The executive director of America Rising Squared, a nonprofit, is Brian Rogers, a former communications director for Senator John McCain of Arizona. White House spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters about Trump’s first cabinet meeting, which is set for Monday, “Unfortunately this afternoon you’ll see some empty chairs.”

A Republican group said it’s launching an advertising campaign to support President Donald Trump’s choice for U.S. labor secretary, R. Alexander Acosta, as his confirmation hearing nears.

The push comes as the Trump administration bemoans unfilled cabinet seats that it blames on Senate Democrats.

America Rising Squared’s TV ad highlights Acosta’s personal biography, saying, “The son of Cuban immigrants, Alex Acosta was the first in his family to attend college.

“As a prosecutor, he brought down drug lords, radical Islamic terrorists and corrupt lobbyists,” the 30-second ad says. “Now, Acosta’s nominated to lead the Labor Department, where he’ll seek justice and jobs for American workers.”

The campaign will be backed by a six-figure dollar amount, said Jeremy Adler, a spokesman for the group.

Acosta, 48, was Trump’s first Hispanic cabinet nominee. He replaced CKE Restaurants Inc. CEO Andrew Puzder, who withdrew his nomination last month after several Republican senators withheld their support, including Susan Collins of Maine and Tim Scott of South Carolina.

Acosta’s confirmation hearing in Tennessee Senator Lamar Alexander’s Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee is slated for March 22.

The Acosta TV ad is the first for any entity in the America Rising family, which also includes a super-PAC, since Trump became president. The executive director of America Rising Squared, a nonprofit, is Brian Rogers, a former communications director for Senator John McCain of Arizona.

White House spokesman Sean Spicer told reporters about Trump’s first cabinet meeting, which is set for Monday, “Unfortunately this afternoon you’ll see some empty chairs.”