Teen girl's burned body found at Vegas apartment complex
Teen girl's burned body found at Vegas apartment complex
Homicide Teen girl's burned body found at Vegas apartment complex By  The site where the body was found.
	                        
	                        	 (Fox News Photo) There are many questions lingering after a teen girl was found dead at an apartment complex in Las Vegas. Her body was badly burned and police estimate her age to be between 14 and 18 years old. Detectives on the scene determined that she was killed and then set on fire post mortem, according to the Las Vegas Review Journal. Police were called to the apartment complex over the weekend. Her body was tucked between two walls in a hidden corner of the complex, according to Metropolitan Police Department Lt. Dan McGrath. “We’ve got a lot of work to do on this case,” McGrath told the newspaper in an unterview. “Hopefully, we’ll find who did this and bring them to justice.” He characterized the scene saying there were signs of an accelerant poured on her to enable the fire, along with burn marks on the walls. Authorities are still working to identify the girl and investigating who could have been responsible. Police did not have descriptions of any possible suspects. Investigators said they are looking at surveillance video to get any clues as to what was happening at the apartment complex at the time. Police could not determine where she was killed or if she had lived in the apartment complex. Andrew Craft is a Fox News multimedia reporter based in Las Vegas, Nevada . Follow him on twitter: @AndrewCraft

There are many questions lingering after a teen girl was found dead at an apartment complex in Las Vegas. Her body was badly burned and police estimate her age to be between 14 and 18 years old.

ILLEGAL IMMIGRANT ACCUSED OF BEHEADING HIS MOM GIVES CHILLING 911 CALL

Detectives on the scene determined that she was killed and then set on fire post mortem, according to the Las Vegas Review Journal.

Police were called to the apartment complex over the weekend. Her body was tucked between two walls in a hidden corner of the complex, according to Metropolitan Police Department Lt. Dan McGrath.

FORMER ILLINOIS PROSECUTOR NOT GUILTY IN FIRST WIFE'S DEATH

“We’ve got a lot of work to do on this case,” McGrath told the newspaper in an unterview. “Hopefully, we’ll find who did this and bring them to justice.”

He characterized the scene saying there were signs of an accelerant poured on her to enable the fire, along with burn marks on the walls.

Authorities are still working to identify the girl and investigating who could have been responsible. Police did not have descriptions of any possible suspects.

Investigators said they are looking at surveillance video to get any clues as to what was happening at the apartment complex at the time.

Police could not determine where she was killed or if she had lived in the apartment complex.

Andrew Craft is a Fox News multimedia reporter based in Las Vegas, Nevada . Follow him on twitter: @AndrewCraft