Texas Democrat Sticks It to Republicans by Proposing Masturbation Fines for Men
Texas Democrat Sticks It to Republicans by Proposing Masturbation Fines for Men
In an effort to highlight the preposterousness of Republicans ' obsession with limiting women's access to health care, one Texas state representative has proposed legislation that would hit male masturbators with a fine. Rep. Jessica Farrar's proposed legislation would result in a $100 fine for "emissions" of the masturbatory variety, the  reported Sunday. Additionally, the legislation would require men seeking a Viagra prescription to "undergo counseling." "Although HB 4260 is satirical, there is nothing funny about current health care restrictions for women and the very real legislation that is proposed every legislative session," Rep. Farrar wrote on Facebook Friday. "Women are not laughing at state-imposed regulations and obstacles that interfere with their ability to legally access safe healthcare, and subject them to fake science and medically unnecessary procedures." Texans, Farrar added, deserve equal health care treatment regardless of gender. When the Houston Democrat spoke with the about the bill Sunday, she said she's certain HB 4260 will never become law. But becoming law isn't even the point. "What I would like to see is this make people stop and think," Farrar said. "Maybe my colleagues aren't capable of that, but the people who voted for them, or the people that didn't vote at all, I hope that it changes their mind and helps them to decide what the priorities are." Farrar's bill also does an excellent job of highlighting many Republicans' hypocrisy on related issues, a hypocrisy former presidential candidate Ted Cruz indirectly put on full display last year. Cruz's former college roommate kindly informed the general public last April that Cruz—despite his belief that people don't have a right to genital stimulation—had allegedly been involved in self-simulation on at least once occasion: Ted Cruz thinks people don't have a right to "stimulate their genitals." I was his college roommate. This would be a new belief of his. A compelling anecdote, no doubt.

In an effort to highlight the preposterousness of Republicans' obsession with limiting women's access to health care, one Texas state representative has proposed legislation that would hit male masturbators with a fine. Rep. Jessica Farrar's proposed legislation would result in a $100 fine for "emissions" of the masturbatory variety, the Hill reported Sunday. Additionally, the legislation would require men seeking a Viagra prescription to "undergo counseling."

"Although HB 4260 is satirical, there is nothing funny about current health care restrictions for women and the very real legislation that is proposed every legislative session," Rep. Farrar wrote on Facebook Friday. "Women are not laughing at state-imposed regulations and obstacles that interfere with their ability to legally access safe healthcare, and subject them to fake science and medically unnecessary procedures." Texans, Farrar added, deserve equal health care treatment regardless of gender.

When the Houston Democrat spoke with the Texas Tribune about the bill Sunday, she said she's certain HB 4260 will never become law. But becoming law isn't even the point. "What I would like to see is this make people stop and think," Farrar said. "Maybe my colleagues aren't capable of that, but the people who voted for them, or the people that didn't vote at all, I hope that it changes their mind and helps them to decide what the priorities are."

Farrar's bill also does an excellent job of highlighting many Republicans' hypocrisy on related issues, a hypocrisy former presidential candidate Ted Cruz indirectly put on full display last year. Cruz's former college roommate kindly informed the general public last April that Cruz—despite his belief that people don't have a right to genital stimulation—had allegedly been involved in self-simulation on at least once occasion:

Ted Cruz thinks people don't have a right to "stimulate their genitals." I was his college roommate. This would be a new belief of his. — Craig Mazin (@clmazin) April 13, 2016

A compelling anecdote, no doubt.