Amazon jungle faces death spiral of drought and deforestation, warn scientists
Amazon jungle faces death spiral of drought and deforestation, warn scientists
Much of the Amazon is facing a death spiral of deforestation and drought over the next century, according to a new study. Projected reductions in rainfall would not lead to “complete Amazon dieback” but “large parts” of the vast region were “certainly at risk”, one of the researchers said. The water cycle of the Amazon has been described as “one of nature’s great wonders”, but the forest has been under pressure from the timber industry, agriculture and the effects of climate change. Read more These scientists have discovered an ancient mystery in the Amazon HSBC 'funding destruction of vast areas of Indonesian rainforest' Illegal gold mining in Colombia is killing the rainforest Madagascar’s ‘sapphire rush’ could damage its protected rainforests Palm oil firm linked to Tory donors accused over rainforest fires The new study examined what would happen if the dry seasons intensify. They found there was a feedback loop in which droughts led to fewer trees, which reduced the level of rainfall. The Amazon rainforest is so large that it has an important impact on the world’s climate. It has been said that deforestation there could cause more rain in the UK . Dr Delphine Clara Zemp, of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Germany, who was one of the researchers behind the new study, said: “The Amazon rainforest is one of the tipping elements in the Earth system.   More than half of Amazon's tree species 'threatened with extinction' “We already know that on the one hand, reduced rainfall increases the risk of forest dieback, and on the other hand, forest loss can intensify regional droughts. “So more droughts can lead to less forest, leading to more droughts and so on. Yet the consequences of this feedback between the plants on the ground and the atmosphere above them so far was not clear. “Our study provides new insight into this issue, highlighting the risk of self-amplifying forest loss which comes on top of the forest loss directly caused by the rainfall reduction.” The researchers found that expected reductions in a reduced flow of moisture from the oceans were likely to cause the loss of some areas of the forest. The subsequent feedback between the vegetation and the climate would then produce additional forest losses that “could amount [to] up to 25 to 38 per cent of the Amazonian basis”, according to a paper about the study in Nature Communications. Vivid images of isolated stone-age tribe in Brazilian Amazon               Vivid images of isolated stone-age tribe in Brazilian Amazon       The World Wildlife Fund believes up to 48 football fields worth of forest is lost every minute   Ricardo Stuckert        'It was surprisingly powerful and emotional'   Ricardo Stuckert        Mr Meirelles guessed that there was up to 300 people in the tribe   Ricardo Stuckert        'We live in an age when men have been to the moon. Yet here in Brazil there are people who continue to live as humankind has for tens of thousands of years'   Ricardo Stuckert        Forestry covers around 31 per cent of the planet   Ricardo Stuckert        'I felt like I was a painter in the last century' said Mr Stuckert   Ricardo Stuckert        The World Wildlife Fund believes up to 48 football fields worth of forest is lost every minute   Ricardo Stuckert        Deforestation was estimated to have increased by 467 per cent year on year in 2014   Ricardo Stuckert  This would turn the forests into a radically different savannah environment. Another of the researchers, Dr Carl Schleussner, also from the Potsdam Institute, said: “Projected rainfall changes for the end of the 21st century will not lead to complete Amazon dieback. “But our findings suggest that large parts of it are certainly at risk.” The Amazon has already seen considerable changes to its weather. Anja Rammig, also from the Potsdam Institute, said: “Today, the wet season is getting wetter and the dry season drier in southern and eastern Amazonia due to changing sea-surface temperatures that influence moisture transport across the tropics. “It is unclear whether this will continue, but recent projections constrained with observations indicate that widespread drying during the dry season is possible in the region.” More about: Amazon Rainforest Deforestation climate change Global Warming Comments

Much of the Amazon is facing a death spiral of deforestation and drought over the next century, according to a new study. Projected reductions in rainfall would not lead to “complete Amazon dieback” but “large parts” of the vast region were “certainly at risk”, one of the researchers said.

The water cycle of the Amazon has been described as “one of nature’s great wonders”, but the forest has been under pressure from the timber industry, agriculture and the effects of climate change.

The new study examined what would happen if the dry seasons intensify.

They found there was a feedback loop in which droughts led to fewer trees, which reduced the level of rainfall.

The Amazon rainforest is so large that it has an important impact on the world’s climate. It has been said that deforestation there could cause more rain in the UK.

Dr Delphine Clara Zemp, of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research, Germany, who was one of the researchers behind the new study, said: “The Amazon rainforest is one of the tipping elements in the Earth system.

“We already know that on the one hand, reduced rainfall increases the risk of forest dieback, and on the other hand, forest loss can intensify regional droughts.

“So more droughts can lead to less forest, leading to more droughts and so on. Yet the consequences of this feedback between the plants on the ground and the atmosphere above them so far was not clear.

“Our study provides new insight into this issue, highlighting the risk of self-amplifying forest loss which comes on top of the forest loss directly caused by the rainfall reduction.”

The researchers found that expected reductions in a reduced flow of moisture from the oceans were likely to cause the loss of some areas of the forest.

The subsequent feedback between the vegetation and the climate would then produce additional forest losses that “could amount [to] up to 25 to 38 per cent of the Amazonian basis”, according to a paper about the study in Nature Communications.

Vivid images of isolated stone-age tribe in Brazilian Amazon







8 show all Vivid images of isolated stone-age tribe in Brazilian Amazon













1/8 The World Wildlife Fund believes up to 48 football fields worth of forest is lost every minute Ricardo Stuckert

2/8 'It was surprisingly powerful and emotional' Ricardo Stuckert

3/8 Mr Meirelles guessed that there was up to 300 people in the tribe Ricardo Stuckert

4/8 'We live in an age when men have been to the moon. Yet here in Brazil there are people who continue to live as humankind has for tens of thousands of years' Ricardo Stuckert

5/8 Forestry covers around 31 per cent of the planet Ricardo Stuckert

6/8 'I felt like I was a painter in the last century' said Mr Stuckert Ricardo Stuckert

7/8 The World Wildlife Fund believes up to 48 football fields worth of forest is lost every minute Ricardo Stuckert

8/8 Deforestation was estimated to have increased by 467 per cent year on year in 2014 Ricardo Stuckert

This would turn the forests into a radically different savannah environment.

Another of the researchers, Dr Carl Schleussner, also from the Potsdam Institute, said: “Projected rainfall changes for the end of the 21st century will not lead to complete Amazon dieback.

“But our findings suggest that large parts of it are certainly at risk.”

The Amazon has already seen considerable changes to its weather.

Anja Rammig, also from the Potsdam Institute, said: “Today, the wet season is getting wetter and the dry season drier in southern and eastern Amazonia due to changing sea-surface temperatures that influence moisture transport across the tropics.

“It is unclear whether this will continue, but recent projections constrained with observations indicate that widespread drying during the dry season is possible in the region.”