Ashish Nehra Feels That MS Dhoni May Not Be Looking So Far Ahead Right Now To See If He Will Play The 2019 World Cup
Nehra Feels Dhoni May Not Be Looking So Far Ahead To See If He Will Play The 2019 World Cup
Ashish Nehra Feels That MS Dhoni May Not Be Looking So Far Ahead Right Now To See If He Will Play The 2019 World Cup Ashish Nehra believes that is not looking too far to see if he will play the 2019 World or not. He felt to the side and praised the former World Cup winning captain for his ‘amazing cricket fitness’. "MS Dhoni's cricket fitness is amazing. Me and MS are two guys from different age groups. Our job is to bring a sense of calmness, our experience in this team," he said. "2019 is too far away and I can't play that far at my age even though I never planned when I was young. Even MS Dhoni who is two years younger to me may not be thinking that far ahead,” he added. Dhoni gave up the limited overs captaincy in January. He is now in the team as a player and elder statesman. 2019, is too far away to think about now, but one thing's for sure, Dhoni is still an integral part of Virat Kohli's team.

Ashish Nehra believes that MS Dhoni is not looking too far to see if he will play the 2019 World or not.

AFP

He felt Dhoni’s role was to provide a sense of calmness to the side and praised the former World Cup winning captain for his ‘amazing cricket fitness’.

"MS Dhoni's cricket fitness is amazing. Me and MS are two guys from different age groups. Our job is to bring a sense of calmness, our experience in this team," he said.

AFP

"2019 is too far away and I can't play that far at my age even though I never planned when I was young. Even MS Dhoni who is two years younger to me may not be thinking that far ahead,” he added.

Dhoni gave up the limited overs captaincy in January. He is now in the team as a player and elder statesman.

AP

2019, is too far away to think about now, but one thing's for sure, Dhoni is still an integral part of Virat Kohli's team.

Don't Miss 4.6 K SHARES 8 K SHARES 12.8 K SHARES 19.2 K SHARES