Merkel postpones Trump meeting until Friday over weather
Germany's Merkel postpones Trump meeting until Friday over weather


A powerful nor'easter in the forecast has delayed a meeting between President Donald Trump and Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, until later this week.

White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said the meeting originally scheduled for Tuesday has been postponed until Friday because of the coming storm.

The meeting will be the first between the two leaders. Their itinerary is set to include discussions on NATO, the Islamic State group and Ukraine's conflict, all matters that require close cooperation between the U.S. and Germany, as well as a joint press conference.

Talks are still on: Angela Merkel was supposed to fly in for talks on Tuesday but has put them off until Friday because of a devastating winter storm set to hit the north-eastern U.S.

Take-off: Merkel's Airbus A340 plane, which is operated by the German air force, was stuck on the tarmac at Berlin when the talks were postponed

A blast of late winter weather is expected to blanket much of the Northeast this week, with up to 8 inches of snow and sleet accumulation forecast for Washington, starting Monday evening.

Merkel told reporters on Monday that had called her to explain the severity of the expected storm.

She had already underscored the importance of free trade in a speech to business leaders in Munich, before her first trip to meet U.S. President Donald Trump in Washington for talks on a range of issues, including defense spending.

Briefing reporters before the trip, a senior German official said he expected the talks to focus on foreign policy issues ranging from NATO and Russia to Syria, Middle East peace, Iran, North Korea and the European Union.

Talks between German officials and members of Trump's administration suggest the two countries will cooperate closely on policy towards Russia, the official said.

'The United States of America is a key trading partner for Germany and for the entire European Union,' Merkel said.

'Trade is advantageous for both sides and I'm looking forward to the chance to speak to the newly elected American president about these issues.

'I believe that direct, one-on-one conversations are always much better than talking about each other.

'Talking together instead of about each other - that'll be my slogan for this visit, which I'm really looking forward to.'

Trump has called Merkel's decision to allow hundreds of thousands of refugees into Germany a 'catastrophic mistake' .

He has also threatened to impose tariffs on German carmakers that import into the United States and has criticized Berlin for not spending more on defense. Another source of tension is Germany's 50 billion-euro trade surplus with the United States.

Defense talks: Merkel and Trump are likely to speak about one of the major causes of friction between them - the European's country's low level of spending on its military

The United States is Germany's biggest export destination , buying German goods and services worth 107 billion euros ($114 billion) last year while exporting just 58 billion euros' worth in return. It is Germany's third-largest trading partner, just behind China and France.

Merkel said German companies employ about 750,000 people in the United States and 1 million to 2 million jobs in the United States depend indirectly on German companies.

Causes of friction between Berlin and Washington also include an accusation by a senior Trump adviser that Germany profits unfairly from a weak euro and a threat to impose 35 percent tariffs on imported vehicles.

The senior German official also said Merkel was committed to boosting defense spending in line with a NATO target for military budgets to account for 2 percent of economic output, and would offer convincing arguments to Trump on this issue.

An 8 percent rise in the 2017 defense budget was 'a clear sign that we are sticking to our commitments,' the official said.

But the official described it as a 'symbolic goal' and said the most important thing was to close holes in NATO´s defense capabilities, a view shared by Trump's national security adviser, Army Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster.

'The most important thing is to close the capability gap,' the official said.

Germany's 2018 budget plan calls for defence spending to rise by 1.4 billion euros in 2018 to 38.45 billion euros, or 1.23 percent of gross domestic product, and to reach 42.3 billion euros in 2021.

That amounts to 8.3 billion euros more over the four years than previously planned, but it will still fall short of the 2 percent target, a second government official said.