Spooked Of Ghosts, Brazilian President Vacates Presidential Palace With Family
Spooked Of Ghosts, Brazilian President Vacates Presidential Palace With Family
Spooked Of Ghosts, Brazilian President Vacates Presidential Palace With Family Even the best of security in the world can’t guard one against ghosts or other paranormal forces or so it seems. Ask Brazilian president Michel Temer who will gladly testify to the same after he decamped his official residence at the Alvorada Palace, the official residence of the President. In the end, Temer and his family moved to the smaller, but still luxurious, vice presidential residence of Jaburu Palace. he house moving comes in the middle of a severe political crisis for Brazil, with many of Temer's allies facing potential corruption probes.

Even the best of security in the world can’t guard one against ghosts or other paranormal forces or so it seems. Ask Brazilian president Michel Temer who will gladly testify to the same after he decamped his official residence at the Alvorada Palace, the official residence of the President.

"I felt something strange there. I wasn't able to sleep right through the first night. The energy wasn't good... We even started to wonder: could there be ghosts?" Temer was quoted as saying by Veja News.

The modernist Alvorada Palace is a sumptuous residence at the heart of the capital city Brasilia and is equipped with a huge pool, football field, chapel, medical centre and the vast lawn.According to a report in Globo newspaper, Temer's wife Marcela brought in a priest to attempt to drive out any evil spirits, but he failed.

AFP

In the end, Temer and his family moved to the smaller, but still luxurious, vice presidential residence of Jaburu Palace.

Temer knows it well. This was his residence when he served as vice president until last year when then president Dilma Rousseff was impeached for breaking budget accounting laws.

That automatically put Temer in the top job and in the Alvorada. However, since no one filled his vacant vice presidential post, he can now take his pick of palaces. The house moving comes in the middle of a severe political crisis for Brazil, with many of Temer's allies facing potential corruption probes.