Why our parents did holidays better than us
Why our parents did holidays better than us
wo years ago, and with the best of intentions, I made a terrible mistake. In the Easter holidays, I took my two children on a "mind broadening" trip: a week volunteering in a Somerset hippy commune. It was supposed to be an adventure. For seven days we pulled weeds, dug potatoes and ate lentils. I say we. The kids went on hunger strike. We ended up sneaking through the trees in the dead of night to where our car was parked, driving to the nearest garage, and scoffing chocolate bars in the forecourt. So it was with a sinking feeling that I read the 2017 Travel Trends report from ABTA (that’s Britain’s leading association of travel agents and tour operators). This year, they say, the third biggest trend for holidays is... the "microadventure". Now, we are all supposed to "experience destinations in a more active way". "From white water rafting adventures in London’s Lea Valley to kayaking in the Loire , horse riding in Andalucia to climbing Mount Vesuvius," your days of sprawling on a sun lounger while the kids strangle each other in the pool are over. ABTA places blame for this trend on our quest for healthier lifestyles - you’ve tried clean eating (and evidently not learned your lesson); now try clean family holidays. Goodness knows I’m not immune. I have quinoa in my kitchen cupboard. My kids have retched over cakes coaxed from spinach and moaned their way through mindfulness tutorials for toddlers. But hippy voluntourism crossed a line. Holidays used to be holy. They were the one sacred space in which grown-ups could cheerfully wave goodbye to good parenting for a week. Hasta la vista homework, healthy eating and all good habits. Bonjour to slobbing out in the sun, fuelled principally by beaujolais and banana splits. As a child of the early Eighties, I remember the family holiday heyday. It was based on a simple formula: sun, sea, ice cream. Actually, sometimes there was no sun - I've shivered on Welsh beaches. But it didn’t matter because ice cream was a reliable constant. I have a clear memory of eating it for breakfast. I think it may even have been washed down with a Shirley Temple mocktail. Today, this degree of nonchalance has to be justified with an impressive title - "benign neglect" - and dressed up as a parenting philosophy. Back then, it was just called "the holidays". We children loved the liberty of being largely ignored, our parents relished the freedom of reading boring books, or whatever it was they got up to without us. The 2017 family travel bucket list (for those of you who think your parents got it wrong) Their generation did family holidays better. Glacé cherries; slushy drinks that turn your tongue blue; a sandy Cornetto; returning annually to the same somewhat shabby cottage; burying your snoring dad in the sand for the millionth time as his forehead turned lobster red: these are the things that family holidays are made of. They may be simple and unadventurous, but they are things you remember, with blissful nostalgia, 30 years later - they are the ideal way to "experience" a destination.

Two years ago, and with the best of intentions, I made a terrible mistake. In the Easter holidays, I took my two children on a "mind broadening" trip: a week volunteering in a Somerset hippy commune.

It was supposed to be an adventure. For seven days we pulled weeds, dug potatoes and ate lentils.

I say we. The kids went on hunger strike. We ended up sneaking through the trees in the dead of night to where our car was parked, driving to the nearest garage, and scoffing chocolate bars in the forecourt.

Digging for spuds does not a holiday make Credit: Serjik Ahkhundov - Fotolia/unknown

So it was with a sinking feeling that I read the 2017 Travel Trends report from ABTA (that’s Britain’s leading association of travel agents and tour operators). This year, they say, the third biggest trend for holidays is... the "microadventure".

Now, we are all supposed to "experience destinations in a more active way".

"From white water rafting adventures in London’s Lea Valley to kayaking in the Loire, horse riding in Andalucia to climbing Mount Vesuvius," your days of sprawling on a sun lounger while the kids strangle each other in the pool are over.

ABTA places blame for this trend on our quest for healthier lifestyles - you’ve tried clean eating (and evidently not learned your lesson); now try clean family holidays.

Goodness knows I’m not immune. I have quinoa in my kitchen cupboard. My kids have retched over cakes coaxed from spinach and moaned their way through mindfulness tutorials for toddlers. But hippy voluntourism crossed a line.

The perfect family holiday: ice cream on the beach, hold the sun cream Credit: Martin Parr/Martin Parr

Holidays used to be holy. They were the one sacred space in which grown-ups could cheerfully wave goodbye to good parenting for a week. Hasta la vista homework, healthy eating and all good habits. Bonjour to slobbing out in the sun, fuelled principally by beaujolais and banana splits.

As a child of the early Eighties, I remember the family holiday heyday. It was based on a simple formula: sun, sea, ice cream. Actually, sometimes there was no sun - I've shivered on Welsh beaches.

"As a child of the early Eighties, I remember the family holiday heyday. It was based on a simple formula: sun, sea, ice cream" Credit: Brian Jackson - Fotolia

But it didn’t matter because ice cream was a reliable constant. I have a clear memory of eating it for breakfast. I think it may even have been washed down with a Shirley Temple mocktail.

Today, this degree of nonchalance has to be justified with an impressive title - "benign neglect" - and dressed up as a parenting philosophy. Back then, it was just called "the holidays". We children loved the liberty of being largely ignored, our parents relished the freedom of reading boring books, or whatever it was they got up to without us.

Their generation did family holidays better. Glacé cherries; slushy drinks that turn your tongue blue; a sandy Cornetto; returning annually to the same somewhat shabby cottage; burying your snoring dad in the sand for the millionth time as his forehead turned lobster red: these are the things that family holidays are made of.

They may be simple and unadventurous, but they are things you remember, with blissful nostalgia, 30 years later - they are the ideal way to "experience" a destination.