Frank Ocean Premieres 'Chanel' & A$AP Rocky Remix on 'Blonded' Radio: Listen
Frank Ocean Premieres 'Chanel' & A$AP Rocky Remix on 'Blonded' Radio: Listen
Frank Ocean Premieres 'Chanel' & A$AP Rocky Remix on 'Blonded' Radio: Listen  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  On FridayÂ (March 10), Frank Ocean surprised fans when he released a brand new record titled "Chanel"Â on his Beats 1 radio show. The slow and intoxicating record finds Ocean floatingÂ over the somber keys. After rapping freely on the beginning of the track, he croons onÂ the hook: "I see both sides like Chanel/See on both sides like Chanel." Ocean also premiered the remix of "Chanel" with A$AP Rocky . The Harlem MC delved into his love life by speaking on his ex-girlfriend Chanel Iman.Â "Was such a good guy to Chanel/'Til she caught me sleeping with Charel," he raps.Â  Ocean's "Chanel" was released on the second episode for hisÂ Â show on Beats 1. "Chanel" comes after Ocean was featured on Calvin Harris' new record "Slide." The "Novacane" singer will have a busy summerÂ as he'll be headlining a slew of festivals includingÂ Primavera Sound Festival, LoveboxÂ and NorthSide. Check out "Chanel" and the remix featuring Rocky below.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Frank Ocean performs during the 2014 Bonnaroo Music & Arts Festival on June 14, 2014 in Manchester, Tenn.

On FridayÂ (March 10), Frank Ocean surprised fans when he released a brand new record titled "Chanel"Â on his Beats 1 BlondedÂ radio show.

The slow and intoxicating record finds Ocean floatingÂ over the somber keys. After rapping freely on the beginning of the track, he croons onÂ the hook: "I see both sides like Chanel/See on both sides like Chanel."

Ocean also premiered the remix of "Chanel" with A$AP Rocky. The Harlem MC delved into his love life by speaking on his ex-girlfriend Chanel Iman.Â "Was such a good guy to Chanel/'Til she caught me sleeping with Charel," he raps.Â

Ocean's "Chanel" was released on the second episode for hisÂ BlondedÂ RadioÂ show on Beats 1. "Chanel" comes after Ocean was featured on Calvin Harris' new record "Slide."

The "Novacane" singer will have a busy summerÂ as he'll be headlining a slew of festivals includingÂ Primavera Sound Festival, LoveboxÂ and NorthSide.

Check out "Chanel" and the remix featuring Rocky below.Â