Azealia Banks Reportedly Slashed Her Sister's Neck With a Box Cutter in 2009
Azealia Banks Reportedly Slashed Her Sister's Neck With a Box Cutter in 2009
Years before Azealia Banks was accused of bitting boobs , the Harlem MC was facing serious assault charges for reportedly slashing her sister’s neck with a box cutter. Prosecutors revealed the 2009 incident over the weekend, just a day before Banks was to appear in Manhattan Criminal Court for allegedly attacking a nightclub security guard in 2015. “This is a case where she slashed her sister in the neck, the arm and the hand with a box cutter,” Assistant DA Shea Donato told the . The publication reports Banks pleaded guilty to attempted assault in the 2009 case; however, because she was 17 at the time, Banks was given special treatment. Donata told the prosecutors will try to use this incident in the current trial to highlight Banks’ violent history. Donato said she also wants to mention the rapper’s highly publicized altercation with Russell Crowe in October of last year. Banks accused the actor of assaulting her during his hotel party in Los Angeles; however, Crowe and other witnesses contradicted Banks’ story and insisted she was the primary aggressor. RZA, who invited Banks to the party, eventually came forward with his account , claiming Banks was verbally and eventually physically abusive during the party. He also said the “212” artist had threatened “to cut a girl in the face with a glass.” Judge Ann Scherzer will determine if Banks’ violent history can be used against her in the upcoming trial. According to the , jury selection will begin this Wednesday. Banks is facing multiple assault charges after she allegedly punched and bit Christine Soares , an employee at Up&Down nightclub in NYC. The Manhattan District Attorney's press office did not immediately respond to Complex's requests for comment.

Years before Azealia Banks was accused of bitting boobs, the Harlem MC was facing serious assault charges for reportedly slashing her sister’s neck with a box cutter.

Prosecutors revealed the 2009 incident over the weekend, just a day before Banks was to appear in Manhattan Criminal Court for allegedly attacking a nightclub security guard in 2015.

“This is a case where she slashed her sister in the neck, the arm and the hand with a box cutter,” Assistant DA Shea Donato told the New York Daily News.

The publication reports Banks pleaded guilty to attempted assault in the 2009 case; however, because she was 17 at the time, Banks was given special treatment. Donata told the Daily News prosecutors will try to use this incident in the current trial to highlight Banks’ violent history.

Donato said she also wants to mention the rapper’s highly publicized altercation with Russell Crowe in October of last year. Banks accused the actor of assaulting her during his hotel party in Los Angeles; however, Crowe and other witnesses contradicted Banks’ story and insisted she was the primary aggressor. RZA, who invited Banks to the party, eventually came forward with his account, claiming Banks was verbally and eventually physically abusive during the party. He also said the “212” artist had threatened “to cut a girl in the face with a glass.”

Judge Ann Scherzer will determine if Banks’ violent history can be used against her in the upcoming trial. According to the Daily News, jury selection will begin this Wednesday.

Banks is facing multiple assault charges after she allegedly punched and bit Christine Soares, an employee at Up&Down nightclub in NYC.

The Manhattan District Attorney's press office did not immediately respond to Complex's requests for comment.