NCAA Women's Basketball Bracket 2017: Results, Seeds, Reaction and Analysis
NCAA Women's Basketball Bracket 2017: Results, Seeds, Reaction and Analysis
The 2017 NCAA women's basketball tournament is set and every team now knows how many games it will take before a potential matchup against the Connecticut Huskies. While there are 64 teams in the field, UConn is the top overall seed once again thanks to its 32-0 record. South Carolina, Baylor and Notre Dame are the other No. 1 seeds trying to advance to the Final Four in Dallas. Here is the full seeding list for the tournament:   Connecticut is once again the favorite as it tries to bring home its fifth championship in a row. The Huskies have won 107 straight games and are coming off a 100-44 win over South Florida in the AAC championship game. While there are certainly talented teams who could make a game interesting, this isn't a squad that loses to inferior opponents. It wouldn't be surprising to see the group breeze through the first weekend and possibly more without breaking a sweat. As ESPN Stats and Info noted, the program is used to being in this position: UConn enters NCAA Tournament undefeated for 8th time in school history. @UConnWBB went on to win it in 6 of the previous 7 such seasons. It's safe to say that just about every team in the Bridgeport region is likely disappointed its path to the Final Four will have to go through the Huskies. This includes Syracuse, which lost to UConn in the national championship game last year. Wow Maryland women get a 3 seed in U Conn region they're not gonna be super happy about that She mentions that the Terps were No. 4 in the national rankings. Got a No. 3 seed. She's smiling, but she's not happy. https://t.co/omAopfuoG0 This is the exact opposite for fellow No. 1 seed Baylor, as Adam Grosbard of the argued: Being in the OKC region gives Baylor a big geographic edge to make it to the Final Four in Dallas https://t.co/11V0Pud3wg Mississippi State, Louisville and Washington are a few teams that will try to challenge this easy path in the regional. Washington is a No. 4 seed, but the squad has arguably the top offensive player in the country in Kelsey Plum. She leads Division I with 31.7 points per game and will try to carry the Huskies on a deep run this month. ESPN's Kara Lawson discussed the challenges involved in the region, via ESPN Women's Hoops: Kara Lawson: Wow. Whoever comes out of [the Oklahoma City Regional] is going to be well-tested for Dallas. Notre Dame has been one of Connecticut's biggest rivals in recent years, reaching the national title game in four of the past six seasons without winning any. The team will try to improve upon this performance behind Brianna Turner and Lindsey Allen. The team is a No. 1 seed once again and fortunately on the opposite side of the bracket from the top team in the country. Of course, seeding isn't quite as important as simply being a part of the tournament. California was one of the last bubble teams in the field and was obviously excited: Mood:

#LetsDance https://t.co/eRep5GXw94 A tough draw could pit the Golden Bears against Baylor in the second round, but they and Auburn are much happier than Virginia, which ended up on the outside looking in. We also know anything can happen during March Madness, even to the tournament favorites. As well as Connecticut has played all season, there are no guarantees for the young team over the next three weeks of action. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Peter G. Aiken/Getty Images

The 2017 NCAA women's basketball tournament is set and every team now knows how many games it will take before a potential matchup against the Connecticut Huskies.

While there are 64 teams in the field, UConn is the top overall seed once again thanks to its 32-0 record. South Carolina, Baylor and Notre Dame are the other No. 1 seeds trying to advance to the Final Four in Dallas.

Here is the full seeding list for the tournament:

2016 Women's NCAA Tournament Seeds Seed Bridgeport Region Lexington Region Oklahoma City Region Stockton Region 1 Connecticut Notre Dame Baylor South Carolina 2 Duke Stanford Mississippi State Oregon State 3 Maryland Texas Washington Florida State 4 UCLA Kentucky Louisville Miami 5 Texas A&M Ohio State Tennessee Marquette 6 West Virginia North Carolina State Oklahoma Missouri 7 Temple Kansas State DePaul Creighton 8 Syracuse Green Bay LSU Arizona State 9 Iowa State Purdue California Michigan State 10 Oregon Drake Northern Iowa Toledo 11 Elon Auburn Gonzaga South Florida 12 Pennsylvania Western Kentucky Dayton Quinnipiac 13 Boise State Belmont Chattanooga Florida Gulf Coast 14 Bucknell Central Arkansas Montana State Western Illinois 15 Hampton New Mexico State Troy Long Beach State 16 Albany Robert Morris Texas Southern UNC Asheville Source: ESPN Broadcast

Full bracket available at ESPN.com.

Connecticut is once again the favorite as it tries to bring home its fifth championship in a row.

The Huskies have won 107 straight games and are coming off a 100-44 win over South Florida in the AAC championship game. While there are certainly talented teams who could make a game interesting, this isn't a squad that loses to inferior opponents.

It wouldn't be surprising to see the group breeze through the first weekend and possibly more without breaking a sweat.

As ESPN Stats and Info noted, the program is used to being in this position:

It's safe to say that just about every team in the Bridgeport region is likely disappointed its path to the Final Four will have to go through the Huskies. This includes Syracuse, which lost to UConn in the national championship game last year.

Another team that could do damage is No. 3 Maryland, which finished the year with a 30-2 record. One of those losses came against Connecticut by a score of 87-81, which was one of only three Huskies games decided by single digits on the year.

Dan Steinberg of the Washington Post noted the disappointment in the seed:

As Jon Blau of the Herald-Times noted, head coach Brenda Frese wasn't pleased during her ensuing interview with ESPN:

A'Ja Wilson and South Carolina also have reason to be upset despite getting a No. 1 seed. The problem is the location as the top squad in the Stockton region.

As Mechelle Voepel of ESPNW.com noted, this is the third time in six years they will play in California, and they were forced to make a trip to South Dakota last season.

This is the exact opposite for fellow No. 1 seed Baylor, as Adam Grosbard of the Dallas Morning News argued:

Mississippi State, Louisville and Washington are a few teams that will try to challenge this easy path in the regional. Washington is a No. 4 seed, but the squad has arguably the top offensive player in the country in Kelsey Plum. She leads Division I with 31.7 points per game and will try to carry the Huskies on a deep run this month.

ESPN's Kara Lawson discussed the challenges involved in the region, via ESPN Women's Hoops:

Notre Dame has been one of Connecticut's biggest rivals in recent years, reaching the national title game in four of the past six seasons without winning any. The team will try to improve upon this performance behind Brianna Turner and Lindsey Allen.

The team is a No. 1 seed once again and fortunately on the opposite side of the bracket from the top team in the country.

Of course, seeding isn't quite as important as simply being a part of the tournament. California was one of the last bubble teams in the field and was obviously excited:

A tough draw could pit the Golden Bears against Baylor in the second round, but they and Auburn are much happier than Virginia, which ended up on the outside looking in.

We also know anything can happen during March Madness, even to the tournament favorites. As well as Connecticut has played all season, there are no guarantees for the young team over the next three weeks of action.