Snoop Dogg points gun at a Donald Trump clown in his new video
Snoop Dogg points gun at a Donald Trump clown in his new video
Well, this will get some people talking. SEE ALSO: Snoop Dogg and Martha Stewart team up for a dope dinner party series In a new politically tinged video for "Lavender," Snoop Dogg rolls out clowns, weed, references to the Philando Castile shooting , and "Ronald Klump," an orange-faced clown who is president and stands in for, well, you know who. In the video's climax, Snoop and Klump come face-to-face and Snoop points a gun at Klump's head. Spoiler alert: Klump lives, as the gun turns out to be a toy that shoots a "BANG" flag, but that doesn't make the image any less stark. Watch the video below (naughty language alert, so grab the headphones if you're at work). Talking to , Snoop had an awful lot to say about the real president: "The ban that this motherf—ker tried to put up; him winning the presidency; police being able to kill motherf—kers and get away with it; people being in jail for weed for 20, 30 years and motherf—kers that’s not black on the streets making money off of it — but if you got color or ethnicity connected to your name, you’ve been wrongfully accused or locked up for it, and then you watching people not of color position themselves to get millions and billions off of it. It’s a lot of clown sh-t going on that we could just sit and talk on the phone all day about, but it’s a few issues that we really wanted to lock into [for the video] like police, the president and just life in general." This isn't the first time Snoop and Trump have crossed paths. In 2011, at Comedy Central's roast of Trump, Snoop was a participant who got in some pretty hot burns on pre-president Trump, including a reference to Trump's already-burning political aspirations. (Again, naughty language warning.) One note: Snoop's song is actually a reworking of a collaboration between BADBADNOTGOOD and Kaytranada (you can listen to the original here ). WATCH: Neil Degrasse Tyson answers our silliest Snapchat questions | Mashable

Well, this will get some people talking.

SEE ALSO: Snoop Dogg and Martha Stewart team up for a dope dinner party series

In a new politically tinged video for "Lavender," Snoop Dogg rolls out clowns, weed, references to the Philando Castile shooting, and "Ronald Klump," an orange-faced clown who is president and stands in for, well, you know who.

In the video's climax, Snoop and Klump come face-to-face and Snoop points a gun at Klump's head.

Spoiler alert: Klump lives, as the gun turns out to be a toy that shoots a "BANG" flag, but that doesn't make the image any less stark.

Watch the video below (naughty language alert, so grab the headphones if you're at work).

Talking to Billboard, Snoop had an awful lot to say about the real president:

"The ban that this motherf—ker tried to put up; him winning the presidency; police being able to kill motherf—kers and get away with it; people being in jail for weed for 20, 30 years and motherf—kers that’s not black on the streets making money off of it — but if you got color or ethnicity connected to your name, you’ve been wrongfully accused or locked up for it, and then you watching people not of color position themselves to get millions and billions off of it. It’s a lot of clown sh-t going on that we could just sit and talk on the phone all day about, but it’s a few issues that we really wanted to lock into [for the video] like police, the president and just life in general."

This isn't the first time Snoop and Trump have crossed paths. In 2011, at Comedy Central's roast of Trump, Snoop was a participant who got in some pretty hot burns on pre-president Trump, including a reference to Trump's already-burning political aspirations. (Again, naughty language warning.)

One note: Snoop's song is actually a reworking of a collaboration between BADBADNOTGOOD and Kaytranada (you can listen to the original here).