Your Credit Card Spending Is Holding The Fed From Raising Rates Higher
Your Credit Card Spending Is Holding The Fed From Raising Rates Higher
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Robert Harrow       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates once again this week – the first of many increases it has promised for 2017. The Fed’s comfort with raising rates was presumably buoyed on Friday by a jobs report that showed employers added 235,000 workers to their payrolls in February, helping to drive down the unemployment rate to 4.7 percent. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) report Increasing debt isn’t necessarily a problem if incomes rise accordingly. However, that hasn’t been the case, as many financially pinched households can personally attest. The median U.S. household makes slightly less today than it did ten years ago , once inflation is factored in. The rising credit card debt families are acquiring is, in part, being used to supplement diminishing incomes, creating an unhealthy dependency on plastic to pay the bills. Indeed, U.S. consumers stand out among other heavy card-using economies when credit card debt is matched against the household-debt-to-GDP ratio. That telltale figure is notably lower, and those healthier,  in such countries as the U.K. and Singapore . This is a potential problem for Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and the rest of the board as they vote on a rate hike this week. Higher interest rates can be a recipe for disaster when so many people depend on affordable debt to keep them afloat. The federal funds rate is seemingly low, which makes many people underestimate the true impact of a rate hike. Moving from the current 0.75% to 1.25% could mean a 3.64% increase to actual charges paid by consumers, assuming a base APR of 13%. Due to these conditions there’s likely only room for about a 1% rate increase over next few years. Unless income growth becomes more widespread, the Fed is unlikely to raise rates dramatically. Ideally, American consumers need to reel back the amounts they carry on their cards, allowing the U.S. economy itself to curtail its overall debt. There are two key steps to accomplish this – one preventative, the other reactionary. No one should be using credit cards without first accepting the single most-important lesson about them: always pay off balances in full at the end of each month. This imbues the discipline to resist charging to the card any purchase you can’t readily pay off at the end of the month. Remember that the purpose of a credit card should be to earn rewards and to help build credit. Resist its use to finance day-to-day purchases, unless you could just as readily cover the expense immediately. Sticking to this tack is all many people need to keep out of trouble with debt, and to reduce their risk of debilitating dependence on their credit lines. If you’re already someone who is neck deep in card debt, your strategy needs to be very different. At this point-in-time, you need to focus single-mindedly on paying off your balance. Only once you achieve that goal can you focus on avoiding the same circumstances that led you into trouble in the first place. A helpful first step is to seek a reduction in interest rate, and thus charges. Consider refinancing your debt with a low-interest personal loan, or a balance transfer credit card. If you can find a card that gives you 0% APR on balance transfers, take advantage of the offer. Skipping interest payments for 12-15 months can help you more quickly take a hefty bite out of your principal balance. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates once again this week – the first of many increases it has promised for 2017. The Fed’s comfort with raising rates was presumably buoyed on Friday by a jobs report that showed employers added 235,000 workers to their payrolls in February, helping to drive down the unemployment rate to 4.7 percent.

Yet this week’s hike is likely to be very modest, and a key reason is the upward creep in debt by U.S. consumers . A recent report from WalletHub reveals that Americans piled on an additional $89.2 billion in credit card debt in 2016. That bump brought total card debt to a whopping $978.9 billion, according to the study. That figure almost eclipses the drop in the value of outstanding mortgages between 2007 and 2016, from $10.6 trillion to $9.5 trillion.

Increasing debt isn’t necessarily a problem if incomes rise accordingly. However, that hasn’t been the case, as many financially pinched households can personally attest. The median U.S. household makes slightly less today than it did ten years ago, once inflation is factored in. The rising credit card debt families are acquiring is, in part, being used to supplement diminishing incomes, creating an unhealthy dependency on plastic to pay the bills.

Indeed, U.S. consumers stand out among other heavy card-using economies when credit card debt is matched against the household-debt-to-GDP ratio. That telltale figure is notably lower, and those healthier, in such countries as the U.K. and Singapore.

Country Avg. Credit Card Debt GDP Per Capita Debt to GDP Per Capita U.S. $5,700 $53,042 0.107 U.K. £2,457 £34,291 0.072 Singapore S$1,926 S$77,885 0.025

This is a potential problem for Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and the rest of the board as they vote on a rate hike this week. Higher interest rates can be a recipe for disaster when so many people depend on affordable debt to keep them afloat.

The federal funds rate is seemingly low, which makes many people underestimate the true impact of a rate hike. Moving from the current 0.75% to 1.25% could mean a 3.64% increase to actual charges paid by consumers, assuming a base APR of 13%. Due to these conditions there’s likely only room for about a 1% rate increase over next few years. Unless income growth becomes more widespread, the Fed is unlikely to raise rates dramatically.

How Can People Minimize Their Debt Dependence?

Ideally, American consumers need to reel back the amounts they carry on their cards, allowing the U.S. economy itself to curtail its overall debt. There are two key steps to accomplish this – one preventative, the other reactionary.

Avoid the problem before it begins: don’t charge needless expenses to your credit card. No one should be using credit cards without first accepting the single most-important lesson about them: always pay off balances in full at the end of each month. This imbues the discipline to resist charging to the card any purchase you can’t readily pay off at the end of the month. Remember that the purpose of a credit card should be to earn rewards and to help build credit. Resist its use to finance day-to-day purchases, unless you could just as readily cover the expense immediately. Sticking to this tack is all many people need to keep out of trouble with debt, and to reduce their risk of debilitating dependence on their credit lines.

Break out of the debt cycle. If you’re already someone who is neck deep in card debt, your strategy needs to be very different. At this point-in-time, you need to focus single-mindedly on paying off your balance. Only once you achieve that goal can you focus on avoiding the same circumstances that led you into trouble in the first place.

A helpful first step is to seek a reduction in interest rate, and thus charges. Consider refinancing your debt with a low-interest personal loan, or a balance transfer credit card. If you can find a card that gives you 0% APR on balance transfers, take advantage of the offer. Skipping interest payments for 12-15 months can help you more quickly take a hefty bite out of your principal balance.