Scottish independence referendum: what Nicola Sturgeon said and what she really meant
Scottish independence referendum: what Nicola Sturgeon said and what she really meant 
icola Sturgeon has said she wants another Scottish independence referendum before the UK leaves the EU. Here we examine what she said – and what she meant. 'Made in Scotland, by the People of Scotland' “The UK Government was clear in 2014 that an independence referendum should be, in their words, 'made in Scotland, by the people of Scotland' – that is a principle that should be respected today.” Nicola Sturgeon wants to give the impression that Scots can control their own fate, and vote on whether to leave the UK when they like. But this is not the case – the Scottish government has to request the right to hold a referendum; and the UK Government has to agree. Theresa May, the Prime Minister, has a difficult path to tread, stating that now is not the time for a referendum, rather than ruling one out altogether. The section 30 order “Next week I will seek the approval of the Scottish Parliament to agree with the UK government the details of a section 30 order - the procedure that will enable the Scottish Parliament to legislate for an independence referendum.” Scotland can hold a referendum as long as the Scottish Parliament, and both Houses of Parliament agree to trigger section 30 of the 1998 Scotland Act. This will trigger the transfer of the power to hold the referendum to Edinburgh.It is thought she will accept the principle of a vote but refuse to transfer the powers until after Brexit, arguing that only then will Scots know the choice they face. 'When the terms of Brexit are known' “If Scotland is to have a real choice - when the terms of Brexit are known, but before it is too late to choose our own course - then that choice must be offered between the autumn of next year, 2018, and the spring of 2019.” Ms Sturgeon wants Scots to vote on their future in the European Union before Brexit, which is likely to be at the end of March 2019. This would help the nationalists capitalise on uncertainty caused by Brexit and make voting to leave the UK and rejoin the EU more attractive. An independent Scotland will 'secure our relationship with Europe' “We will be frank about the challenges we face and clear about the opportunities independence will give us to secure our relationship with Europe, build a stronger and more sustainable economy and create a fairer society.” Ms Sturgeon believes Scotland has a better future inside the European Union but outside the United Kingdom, justified by the fact that a majority of Scots voted to remain in the EU at last June’s referendum. But the EU does not see it this way, not least because it could potential nationalist uprisings in other member states, like Catalonia in Spain. The European Commission has suggested an independent Scotland would join the back of the queue of other countries hoping for EU membership. 'A common travel area' “There is across these islands a common travel area – there is absolutely no reason why that would or should change if Scotland became an independent country.” Ms Sturgeon will be worried that a “hard” Scottish border after Brexit would be devastating for Scottish companies that “export” into England. She envisages a common travel area will exist within the islands of Great Britain citing the likely post-Brexit solution in the island of Ireland. 'The kind of change we want' “Having Scotland’s referendum - at a time when the terms of Brexit are known - will give the Scottish people a choice about the kind of change we want. And it must be a choice for all of us.” Ms Sturgeon is careful not to say she will win any vote – what she wants is to give Scots a “choice” about their future. No wonder - the latest polling published hours before Ms Sturgeon spoke suggests that Scots would vote 52-48 in favour of remaining in the UK. However a big worry for Mrs May will be that the nationalists started the last referendum campaign at just 32 per cent in early 2013 and rose to 45 per cent by September 2014. With the polls on a knife-edge, Ms Sturgeon is gambling a considerable amount on winning. No wonder that less than 12 hours after Ms Sturgeon had spoken nearly £100,000 had been raised for the natoinalists' cause. Last time leading political figures like David Cameron and Ed Miliband could argue that Scotland was better together with the UK and in the EU. But this time such arguments by their successors will be harder to make because Scotland and Britain is leaving the EU and face a far more uncertain future. 'The same question as last time' “I can see no reason why it can’t be the same question as last time, but I don’t want to get ahead of ourselves, we have a process to go through.” In 2014 Scots were asked a simple question: "Should Scotland be an independent country?” Ms Sturgeon wants to ask it all over again. David Cameron, the then-Prime Minister, was criticised for allowing the nationalists to campaign for a positive “Yes” vote. Theresa May is likely to opt for a question which will elicit a more neutral “Remain/Leave” answer. 'It will be Scotland's choice' “It will be decided by the people of Scotland. It will be Scotland's choice.” Nicola Sturgeon is clear that is up to Scots to decide their future within the UK. But this ignores the question of whether people living in England should be allowed a say on whether they want Scotland to remain in the UK. In the 2014 referendum, all British, Irish and all other European Union citizens aged over 16 who are resident in Scotland were able to vote.

Nicola Sturgeon has said she wants another Scottish independence referendum before the UK leaves the EU. Here we examine what she said – and what she meant.

'Made in Scotland, by the People of Scotland'

What she said:

“The UK Government was clear in 2014 that an independence referendum should be, in their words, 'made in Scotland, by the people of Scotland' – that is a principle that should be respected today.”

Analysis

Nicola Sturgeon wants to give the impression that Scots can control their own fate, and vote on whether to leave the UK when they like.

But this is not the case – the Scottish government has to request the right to hold a referendum; and the UK Government has to agree.

Theresa May, the Prime Minister, has a difficult path to tread, stating that now is not the time for a referendum, rather than ruling one out altogether.