Jared Cook Reportedly to Meet with Seattle Seahawks
Jared Cook Reportedly to Meet with Seattle Seahawks
Free-agent tight end Jared Cook will visit the Seattle Seahawks , NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reported Monday. Cook caught 30 passes for 377 yards and a touchdown in 10 games with the Green Bay Packers in 2016. The immediate question is what—if anything—the Seahawks' pursuit of Cook means for Jimmy Graham 's future in Seattle. Cutting Graham would save the Seahawks $10 million and count for nothing in dead cap money, according to Over the Cap , but seems an unlikely move. Following a disastrous first season in the Pacific Northwest, Graham returned to the Pro Bowl in 2016 after catching 65 passes for 923 yards and six touchdowns. Pro Football Focus graded him the No. 5 tight end in the NFL. After the New England Patriots had success utilizing both Rob Gronkowski and Martellus Bennett—before Gronk's season-ending injury—the Seahawks may envision something similar with Cook and Graham. Given the team's inability to maximize Graham's talent, however, Bleacher Report's Doug Farrar was surprised to see Seattle going after another starting tight end: maybe let's figure out how to use jimmy graham first https://t.co/Xq0oBagXJf Cook could be insurance should the Seahawks have doubts about whether Graham will commit his long-term future to the team—he's in the last year of his current deal. Like Graham, Cook is a solid receiver who offers little value in pass- and run-blocking. Still, Seattle only has a little over $17 million in available cap space, per Spotrac , and has done little to strengthen the team's biggest problem: the offensive line. The Seahawks signed Luke Joeckel for one year and $8 million, per the ' Bob Condotta , but Joeckel won't radically improve a unit that ranked 26th in adjusted line yards and 25th in adjusted sack rate, according to Football Outsiders . Perhaps general manager John Schneider may be thinking multiple moves ahead. By signing Cook, he'd have more freedom to release Graham, thus creating much-needed cap space to bolster the offensive line. On his own, though, Cook would be more of a luxury signing for Seattle rather than addressing a major need. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Ronald Martinez/Getty Images

Free-agent tight end Jared Cook will visit the Seattle Seahawks, NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reported Monday.

Cook caught 30 passes for 377 yards and a touchdown in 10 games with the Green Bay Packers in 2016.

The immediate question is what—if anything—the Seahawks' pursuit of Cook means for Jimmy Graham's future in Seattle.

Cutting Graham would save the Seahawks $10 million and count for nothing in dead cap money, according to Over the Cap, but seems an unlikely move.

Following a disastrous first season in the Pacific Northwest, Graham returned to the Pro Bowl in 2016 after catching 65 passes for 923 yards and six touchdowns. Pro Football Focus graded him the No. 5 tight end in the NFL.

After the New England Patriots had success utilizing both Rob Gronkowski and Martellus Bennett—before Gronk's season-ending injury—the Seahawks may envision something similar with Cook and Graham.

Given the team's inability to maximize Graham's talent, however, Bleacher Report's Doug Farrar was surprised to see Seattle going after another starting tight end:

Cook could be insurance should the Seahawks have doubts about whether Graham will commit his long-term future to the team—he's in the last year of his current deal. Like Graham, Cook is a solid receiver who offers little value in pass- and run-blocking.

Still, Seattle only has a little over $17 million in available cap space, per Spotrac, and has done little to strengthen the team's biggest problem: the offensive line.

The Seahawks signed Luke Joeckel for one year and $8 million, per the Seattle Times' Bob Condotta, but Joeckel won't radically improve a unit that ranked 26th in adjusted line yards and 25th in adjusted sack rate, according to Football Outsiders.

Perhaps general manager John Schneider may be thinking multiple moves ahead. By signing Cook, he'd have more freedom to release Graham, thus creating much-needed cap space to bolster the offensive line.

On his own, though, Cook would be more of a luxury signing for Seattle rather than addressing a major need.