When Employers Ask About Your Salary History, Say This
When Employers Ask About Your Salary History, Say This
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Lelia Gowland       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. “How much were you making in your previous position?” “What’s your salary history?” If these questions are cringe-inducing, there’s good reason: asking about salary history perpetuates the wage gap in which women make less than men for doing the same work. Just think, with the salary history question, if you were underpaid in your first job, you’ll continue to be underpaid in every job after that…forever. Shutterstock I’m a firm believer that you should be paid based on the work you’ll be doing in the new role, your new company, and your market value (the “going rate”), not what you were making previously. You might be thinking, “Avoiding the salary history question sounds great in theory, but if my prospective employer asks, don’t I have to tell them?” Short answer: nope! Here are three scenarios you could find yourself in and strategies on how to deal with each. Let’s say an application includes a question about “current salary” or “expected salary”. The application makes it seem like you have to fill it out, but you actually don’t have to at all. Similarly, you don’t have to answer if an employer asks via email. I recommend including a friendly note that encourages future discussion. Sample language: If the salary question is part of an online application, you could leave it blank or put a zero and include the note in your cover letter or elsewhere in the application. Don’t worry, your employer probably won’t think you’re ready to work for free. Clients have asked me if these strategies might make their application less likely to proceed. Frankly? They could. That said, to my knowledge, this has never happened to one of my clients. One client who’s in the midst of the job search told me, “I’ve been using the classic Lelia line [above] and no one has stopped me yet.” If you have a strong application, leaving that question blank is unlikely to be a deal-breaker. Personally, if a company were to reject a compelling candidate for leaving that question blank, that’s a sign that it might not be a great place to work anyway. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

“How much were you making in your previous position?”

“What’s your salary history?”

If these questions are cringe-inducing, there’s good reason: asking about salary history perpetuates the wage gap in which women make less than men for doing the same work.

Just think, with the salary history question, if you were underpaid in your first job, you’ll continue to be underpaid in every job after that…forever.

I’m a firm believer that you should be paid based on the work you’ll be doing in the new role, your new company, and your market value (the “going rate”), not what you were making previously.

You might be thinking, “Avoiding the salary history question sounds great in theory, but if my prospective employer asks, don’t I have to tell them?” Short answer: nope! Here are three scenarios you could find yourself in and strategies on how to deal with each.

1. In a computer-based application form or email

Let’s say an application includes a question about “current salary” or “expected salary”. The application makes it seem like you have to fill it out, but you actually don’t have to at all. Similarly, you don’t have to answer if an employer asks via email.

I recommend including a friendly note that encourages future discussion.

Sample language:

“I look forward to discussing compensation once I’ve learned more about the position.”

“If I seem like a good fit for the position, I would love to learn more about the responsibilities of the role ­– that way I can determine what salary I should seek. I’m excited about [something specific that demonstrates your interest in the position] and am looking forward to hearing more about [company] and your goals for this position.”

If the salary question is part of an online application, you could leave it blank or put a zero and include the note in your cover letter or elsewhere in the application. Don’t worry, your employer probably won’t think you’re ready to work for free.

Clients have asked me if these strategies might make their application less likely to proceed. Frankly? They could. That said, to my knowledge, this has never happened to one of my clients.

One client who’s in the midst of the job search told me, “I’ve been using the classic Lelia line [above] and no one has stopped me yet.”

If you have a strong application, leaving that question blank is unlikely to be a deal-breaker. Personally, if a company were to reject a compelling candidate for leaving that question blank, that’s a sign that it might not be a great place to work anyway.