This March Madness team has a 'good luck charm' that will melt your heart
This March Madness team has a 'good luck charm' that will melt your heart
Legendary coaches? Lots of March Madness teams have those. Future NBA stars? Same deal. And ditto for famous fans. But a so-called "good luck charm" that's actually a painfully adorable pug puppy? Only one team can claim . SEE ALSO: How Derek Jeter's once-mocked startup became a sports media powerhouse USC was one of the last teams to squeeze into the 2017 NCAA Tournament field. But the Trojans didn't do it alone. At a press conference after the tournament bracket was unveiled, USC coach Andy Enfield brought a special guest. Here's a look via the 's Joey Kaufman. Here is Andy Enfield's kids new puppy. "Our good luck charm." pic.twitter.com/FnWoA40tPT — Joey Kaufman (@joeyrkaufman) March 12, 2017 Yeah, we're gonna need a closer look at that little bugger. Image:  joeyrkaufman,  twitter Slightly blurry, but still: 😍 😍 😍 And that sweater! Here's what we know about the pup, via Monday's . (What? No. We're not stalking. stalking.) Its name is Cali. Cali is only "weeks" old. Cali is beloved by Enfield's wife and three children. According to Kaufman, however, Cali will be making the trip to Dayton, Ohio, for USC's opening-round game. Bummer. If the Trojans lose to Providence on Wednesday though, at least we'll know why. WATCH: Neil Degrasse Tyson answers our silliest Snapchat questions | Mashable

Legendary coaches? Lots of March Madness teams have those. Future NBA stars? Same deal. And ditto for famous fans.

But a so-called "good luck charm" that's actually a painfully adorable pug puppy? Only one team can claim this.

USC was one of the last teams to squeeze into the 2017 NCAA Tournament field. But the Trojans didn't do it alone. At a press conference after the tournament bracket was unveiled, USC coach Andy Enfield brought a special guest. Here's a look via the Orange County Register's Joey Kaufman.

Here is Andy Enfield's kids new puppy. "Our good luck charm." pic.twitter.com/FnWoA40tPT — Joey Kaufman (@joeyrkaufman) March 12, 2017

Yeah, we're gonna need a closer look at that little bugger. Enhance!

Image: joeyrkaufman, twitter

Slightly blurry, but still: 😍 😍 😍

And that sweater!

Here's what we know about the pup, via Monday's Los Angeles Times. (What? No. We're not stalking. You're stalking.)

Its name is Cali.

Cali is only "weeks" old.

Cali is beloved by Enfield's wife and three children.

According to Kaufman, however, Cali will not be making the trip to Dayton, Ohio, for USC's opening-round game. Bummer. If the Trojans lose to Providence on Wednesday though, at least we'll know why.