Lesbian and bisexual women are being incorrectly told they don't need smear tests, LGBT charities say
Lesbian and bisexual women are being incorrectly told they don't need smear tests, LGBT charities say
omen who have sex with women are often wrongly told they do not need to attend cervical screening test, LGBT charities have warned. Research highlighted by the National LGB&T Partnership - an alliance of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender charities - reveals that 37% of women who have sex with women have been told they do not require a cervical screening test due to their sexual orientation. This results in half of all eligible lesbian and bisexual women never having had a smear test, they said. he human papilloma virus (HPV) , which causes most cervical cancers, is passed on through intimate skin-to-skin contact, which includes sex between two women . The partnership surveyed women on their experiences with sexual healthcare As part of the inaugural National Lesbian and Bisexual Women’s Health Week, which aims to highlight that "lesbian, bisexual and other women who have sex with women are experiencing a range of health inequalities and both face barriers to accessing health care and are having poor experiences when they do". " Lesbian, bisexual and other women who have sex with women (LBWSW) lack acknowledgement both in mainstream society and LGBT communities, and to the NHS we are largely invisible," says Liberal Democrat peer Baroness Elizabeth Barker in the foreword of the report published in November. "It is unacceptable that LBWSW continue to experience discrimination and that thoughtlessness compromises our healthcare." ther issues highlighted by the partnership's report are that 21% of bisexual women and 12% of lesbian women reported a long term mental health problem, compared to 4% of heterosexual women, and that 29% of lesbian and bisexual women report more binge drinking compared to 12% in the general population of women. round 3,200 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer in the UK each year. About 2 out of every 100 cancers diagnosed in women (2%) are cervical cancers, according to Cancer Research UK .

Women who have sex with women are often wrongly told they do not need to attend cervical screening test, LGBT charities have warned.

Research highlighted by the National LGB&T Partnership - an alliance of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender charities - reveals that 37% of women who have sex with women have been told they do not require a cervical screening test due to their sexual orientation.

This results in half of all eligible lesbian and bisexual women never having had a smear test, they said.