Photo Of A 'Wall Street Guy' Humping The Fearless Girl Statue Goes Viral, Sparks Outrage Online
Photo Of A 'Wall Street Guy' Humping The Fearless Girl Statue Goes Viral, Sparks Outrage Online
Photo Of A 'Wall Street Guy' Humping The Fearless Girl Statue Goes Viral, Sparks Outrage Online After the ' Fearless Girl ' statue was installed on the eve of International Women's Day, thousands came out with a campaign to make the statue a permanent feature on the Wall Street. Because what the girl is trying to achieve will take more than thirty days. Because the following act of male chauvinism is exactly why the statue needs to stare down the Charging Bull. Pictured here is a Wall Street guy, whose 'lewd and totally inappropriate' gesture has sparked outrage online. Pretending to hump the statuette, it's evident that the white-collared men of the Wall Street are far from comfortable with the installation. Facebook user, Alexis Kaloyanides, who shared this photograph, wrote, People who had gathered to click photos of the statue were shocked to witness such a grotesque display of male entitlement and dominance. Because here was a man laying bare the reality women are fighting - that they may try and take the bull head-on but they won't be able to survive. And this is why the statue needs to stay and the men imbibing a rape culture must go. You can read the full post here.

After the 'Fearless Girl' statue was installed on the eve of International Women's Day, thousands came out with a campaign to make the statue a permanent feature on the Wall Street. Because what the girl is trying to achieve will take more than thirty days. Because the following act of male chauvinism is exactly why the statue needs to stare down the Charging Bull.

reuters

Pictured here is a Wall Street guy, whose 'lewd and totally inappropriate' gesture has sparked outrage online.

Alexis Kaloyanides/facebook

Pretending to hump the statuette, it's evident that the white-collared men of the Wall Street are far from comfortable with the installation. Facebook user, Alexis Kaloyanides, who shared this photograph, wrote,

"Almost as if out of central casting, some Wall Street finance broseph appeared and started humping the statue while his gross date rape-y friends laughed and cheered him on. He pretended to have sex with the image of a little girl. Douchebags like this are why we need feminism."

getty images

People who had gathered to click photos of the statue were shocked to witness such a grotesque display of male entitlement and dominance. Because here was a man laying bare the reality women are fighting - that they may try and take the bull head-on but they won't be able to survive.

And this is why the statue needs to stay and the men imbibing a rape culture must go.

You can read the full post here.

Don't Miss 10.8 K SHARES 6.8 K SHARES 44.3 K SHARES 21 K SHARES 19.3 K SHARES