Photography project captures 'first hello' between parents and newborns
Photography project captures 'first hello' between parents and newborns


Time-lapse video shows the Chicago River being turned green with 45 pounds of dye in honor of St. Patrick's Day.

Pat Kelly, who was diagnosed with terminal acute leukemia, had a final wish to see the ocean, so the Ship Bottom Police Department escorted her to the shore in Long Beach Island, New Jersey.

Police help fulfill dying woman's wish to see beach one last time

The family of Addison Little, 8, of Epsom, New Hampshire, are searching for their daughter's missing duffel bag that fell off their truck after an accident.

Plus, Stanley Tucci dishes on "Beauty and the Beast" and former Bachelorette Desiree Hartsock shares who she thinks Nick Viall will pick during the "Bachelor" finale.

'GMA' Hot List: Kellyanne Conway has 'no evidence' that surveillance was used in Trump Tower

The Congressional Budget Office released its report on the Republican's health care plan, saying that an estimated 14 million more people will be uninsured next year if the plan becomes law.

The First Hello Project visits birthing suites and homes to photograph the first interactions.



The first moments between parents and their children are a special memory for families and an opportunity to show "the real beauty of humanity" for a group of photographers in Australia who document the emotional moments.



The First Hello Project was created in 2015 by two friends, River Bennett and Bel Pangburn, who wanted to put their shared passion for photography to good use. The pair, along with their team of photographers, visits birthing suites and homes to capture those first moments between newborns and parents.

Pregnancy Book Informs and Inspires Mothers-to-Be



"It’s a profound honor to be in that intimate, highly-emotive space and it’s one we don’t take lightly," Pangburn told ABC News.



Pangburn said she believes the photos capture a unique part of the human experience.

View gallery Photography project captures 'first hello' between parents and newborns (ABC News)



"We both deeply believe people everywhere are hungry to see the real beauty of humanity," she said. "So to share these images of such purity has been a complete thrill."



As Bennett and Pangburn are both mothers themselves, they are able to relate to the situation the parents are in. One of their clients, Carmen-Lee Myers, said that was a high point of her experience with them.



"I had completely natural labor and birth, it was quite the experience and endurance," Myers told ABC News. "Having another friend (and) another female in the room who had been through the same was really encouraging and gave me that extra support I needed."



Myers said she loved her experience with The First Hello Project. Having the photos allows her to remember the joy of her birthing experience, she said.



"I want to relive each day (of being a mother), and in particular that moment we said our first hellos," she said. "It was so important for me to capture my journey of pregnancy and birth because words in my journal would never be enough."