Second 'Hamilton' National Tour to Bow in February 2018
Second 'Hamilton' National Tour to Bow in February 2018
Second 'Hamilton' National Tour to Bow in February 2018  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The production will play in Seattle, Portland, Salt Lake City, Costa Mesa, Las Vegas, Des Moines, Cleveland and Minneapolis. The world was wide enough for a secondÂ national tour ofÂ . Producer Jeffrey Seller announced that Lin-Manuel Miranda's hit Broadway musical will open in February 2018 at Seattle's Paramount TheaterÂ for a six-week limited engagement before touring North America. The production will make stops in Portland, Salt Lake City, Costa Mesa, Las Vegas, Des Moines, Cleveland and Minneapolis.  The hip-hop musical about America's founding fathers won 11 Tony Awards in 2016. SinceÂ Â opened on Broadway in 2015, a resident production opened (and has remained sold-out) in Chicago, with another beginning performances in November in London. A first national tour began performances in San Francisco last week and will continue on to Los Angeles, playing the Hollywood Pantages Theatre from Aug. 11.  "There has been tremendous interest in the show from markets across the country," said Seller. "The best way to get the show in front of as many people as possible is to form a new company to crisscross the country. Beginning in 2018, more than 8,000 people a night will have the opportunity to see the show somewhere in North America. Indeed,Â Â is for everyone." Â is produced by Jeffrey Seller, Sander Jacobs, Jill Furman and The Public Theater. The New York production playing at the Richard Rodgers Theatre has grossed $174 million to date.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Lin-Manuel Miranda is seen on stage during the "Hamilton" Grammy performance for The 58th Grammy Awards at Richard Rodgers Theater on Feb. 15, 2016 in New York City.

The production will play in Seattle, Portland, Salt Lake City, Costa Mesa, Las Vegas, Des Moines, Cleveland and Minneapolis.

The world was wide enough for a secondÂ national tour ofÂ Hamilton.

Producer Jeffrey Seller announced that Lin-Manuel Miranda's hit Broadway musical will open in February 2018 at Seattle's Paramount TheaterÂ for a six-week limited engagement before touring North America. The production will make stops in Portland, Salt Lake City, Costa Mesa, Las Vegas, Des Moines, Cleveland and Minneapolis.

The hip-hop musical about America's founding fathers won 11 Tony Awards in 2016. SinceÂ HamiltonÂ opened on Broadway in 2015, a resident production opened (and has remained sold-out) in Chicago, with another beginning performances in November in London. A first national tour began performances in San Francisco last week and will continue on to Los Angeles, playing the Hollywood Pantages Theatre from Aug. 11.

"There has been tremendous interest in the show from markets across the country," said Seller. "The best way to get the show in front of as many people as possible is to form a new company to crisscross the country. Beginning in 2018, more than 8,000 people a night will have the opportunity to see the show somewhere in North America. Indeed,Â HamiltonÂ is for everyone."

HamiltonÂ is produced by Jeffrey Seller, Sander Jacobs, Jill Furman and The Public Theater. The New York production playing at the Richard Rodgers Theatre has grossed $174 million to date.

This article was originally published by The Hollywood Reporter.