Trampoline park injuries trigger hundreds of ambulance call-outs

More than 300 ambulances were called to trampoline parks in the UK in a year, according to figures obtained by the BBC. One park, Flip Out Stoke, called out an ambulance an average of more than once a week, and its parent company is the subject of a series of law suits. Trampolining has exploded in popularity since the first park opened in 2014. There are now more than 140 in the UK, which are visited by millions each year. The statistics, acquired by BBC 5 Live’s Daily programme via freedom of information requests, give a snapshot of call-outs to about three dozen parks in the 12 months to April 2016. Thirteen ambulance trusts across the UK confirmed that during that period, 30 parks required 315 ambulance call-outs. Suspected broken limbs were the top reason for call-outs, with broken legs the most common. The other top five injuries were to the spine, head, back and foot. The British Standards Institution has now published its first set of standards for trampoline parks, and operators insist that the number of injuries is very small relative to the total number of users. The figures show Flip Out Stoke had the highest rate of call-outs among the trusts reporting, with paramedics responding 17 times in 109 days – once every six days – since its opening in December 2015. The park is a franchise of the same company behind Flip Out Chester, where an investigation is under way after three people broke their backs in a single day jumping into a foam pit. One taking legal action against that park is Sarah McManus, 29, who says she fractured her spine on a jump. The personal assistant and receptionist from Oswestry, Shropshire, visited the park on 15 January and jumped from the four-metre-high ledge into a foam pit. McManus, who fractured her T12 verterbra, said: “I followed the instructions on the sign and landed in the seated position as suggested, but when I hit the foam, I heard a crack in my back and felt like I’d been winded. “I was barely able to breathe and couldn’t shout for help, so I had to throw some of the foam sponges in the air to get attention. I was eventually fitted with a back brace that I wear daily and only remove it to shower and sleep.” McManus said she emailed Flip Out to tell them about her injury and raise concerns about the equipment, but received no reply. Flip Out, which has since closed the Jump Tower section of the Chester park, says the call-out rates should be taken in the context of the number of users. The Chester site has recorded 200,000 visits already since it opened in December 2016. A spokesman for Flip Out said: “Safety is our number one priority and we strive to ensure that everyone who visits can enjoy all of the activities in a safe environment. We welcome feedback from our customers and we are investigating these claims to establish exactly what happened.” Peter Brown, chair of the UK’s largest industry body, the International Association of Trampoline Parks UK (IATP), told the BBC that many parks are already up to standard: “The majority are there or thereabouts. Any new parks opened by our members will now have to be compliant, and from August we will be inspecting existing parks.” The proliferation of parks in the UK was inspired by a craze that started in 2004 in the United States. By November 2015, 37 had opened in the UK, rising to 110 by November 2016, and 144 in early March 2017. By Easter 2017, the IATP estimates there will be 150 parks in operation across the UK, with at least 15 million visitors per year.  Sport   Travel & leisure   news

More than 300 ambulances were called to trampoline parks in the UK in a year, according to figures obtained by the BBC. One park, Flip Out Stoke, called out an ambulance an average of more than once a week, and its parent company is the subject of a series of law suits.

Trampolining has exploded in popularity since the first park opened in 2014. There are now more than 140 in the UK, which are visited by millions each year.

The statistics, acquired by BBC 5 Live’s Daily programme via freedom of information requests, give a snapshot of call-outs to about three dozen parks in the 12 months to April 2016. Thirteen ambulance trusts across the UK confirmed that during that period, 30 parks required 315 ambulance call-outs.

Suspected broken limbs were the top reason for call-outs, with broken legs the most common. The other top five injuries were to the spine, head, back and foot.

The British Standards Institution has now published its first set of standards for trampoline parks, and operators insist that the number of injuries is very small relative to the total number of users.

The figures show Flip Out Stoke had the highest rate of call-outs among the trusts reporting, with paramedics responding 17 times in 109 days – once every six days – since its opening in December 2015. The park is a franchise of the same company behind Flip Out Chester, where an investigation is under way after three people broke their backs in a single day jumping into a foam pit.

One taking legal action against that park is Sarah McManus, 29, who says she fractured her spine on a jump. The personal assistant and receptionist from Oswestry, Shropshire, visited the park on 15 January and jumped from the four-metre-high ledge into a foam pit.



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Sarah McManus wearing a back brace after she fractured her spine on a jump at Flip Out Chester. Photograph: Express Solicitors/PA

McManus, who fractured her T12 verterbra, said: “I followed the instructions on the sign and landed in the seated position as suggested, but when I hit the foam, I heard a crack in my back and felt like I’d been winded.

“I was barely able to breathe and couldn’t shout for help, so I had to throw some of the foam sponges in the air to get attention. I was eventually fitted with a back brace that I wear daily and only remove it to shower and sleep.”



McManus said she emailed Flip Out to tell them about her injury and raise concerns about the equipment, but received no reply.

Flip Out, which has since closed the Jump Tower section of the Chester park, says the call-out rates should be taken in the context of the number of users. The Chester site has recorded 200,000 visits already since it opened in December 2016.

Bouncing off corporate fun days: the rise and rise of trampoline centres Read more

A spokesman for Flip Out said: “Safety is our number one priority and we strive to ensure that everyone who visits can enjoy all of the activities in a safe environment. We welcome feedback from our customers and we are investigating these claims to establish exactly what happened.”

Peter Brown, chair of the UK’s largest industry body, the International Association of Trampoline Parks UK (IATP), told the BBC that many parks are already up to standard: “The majority are there or thereabouts. Any new parks opened by our members will now have to be compliant, and from August we will be inspecting existing parks.”

The proliferation of parks in the UK was inspired by a craze that started in 2004 in the United States. By November 2015, 37 had opened in the UK, rising to 110 by November 2016, and 144 in early March 2017.

By Easter 2017, the IATP estimates there will be 150 parks in operation across the UK, with at least 15 million visitors per year.