‘The Daily’: The Rise of the Far Right in Europe
‘The Daily’: The Rise of the Far Right in Europe
: The rise of the far right in Europe. Why the populism that put Donald J. Trump in the White House is starting to sweep across the Continent, as voters there confront similar questions of national identity and immigration. Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC We talk with Amanda Taub and Max Fisher, who write the Interpreter column for The New York Times, about the perception — and reality — of what’s driving this political change in Europe. • Alison Smale on German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s precarious place in Europe’s fast-changing political order. • Alissa J. Rubin on how this week’s election in the Netherlands is serving as a test of its tolerance for Muslim immigrants. Advertisement Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com . Tweet me at @mikiebarb . And if that isn’t enough, we can even text . How do I listen? The Daily Michael Barbaro will text you about what's happening in the news. I'm Michael Barbaro, host of our new audio report, The Daily. Sign up and I'll send you a daily link to a story (or episode of the show) you won't want to miss. I'll keep it brief, just like the show. Thanks! Talk to you soon. Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link , which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”) Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. Advertisement Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed .) You can listen and subscribe using the free app RadioPublic, which is available worldwide. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link to play the latest episode and learn more about the app. Advertisement Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed .) Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily . Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.” Advertisement You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.” THE DAILY: Theo Balcomb, senior producer; Andy Mills, producer; Sam Dolnick, contributing editor. NYT AUDIO: Lisa Tobin, executive producer; Samantha Henig, editorial director; Pedro Rosado, studio manager. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

On today’s episode:

We talk with Amanda Taub and Max Fisher, who write the Interpreter column for The New York Times, about the perception — and reality — of what’s driving this political change in Europe.

Background reading:

• Alison Smale on German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s precarious place in Europe’s fast-changing political order.

• Alissa J. Rubin on how this week’s election in the Netherlands is serving as a test of its tolerance for Muslim immigrants.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if that isn’t enough, we can even text.

How do I listen?

If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.

The Daily Michael Barbaro will text you about what's happening in the news. I'm Michael Barbaro, host of our new audio report, The Daily. Sign up and I'll send you a daily link to a story (or episode of the show) you won't want to miss. I'll keep it brief, just like the show. Thanks! Talk to you soon. Yes, please send me messages from NYT The Daily to this phone number. Privacy policy U.S. numbers only. Standard messaging rates may apply.

On your iPhone or iPad:

Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”)

Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

On your Android phone or tablet:

You can listen and subscribe using the free app RadioPublic, which is available worldwide. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link to play the latest episode and learn more about the app.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

From a desktop or laptop:

Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.

On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:

Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Google Home:

You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”