26 Pictures Guaranteed To Make You Laugh Every Time
26 Pictures Guaranteed To Make You Laugh Every Time
We asked the BuzzFeed Community to send us the funniest pictures on the internet. Here are the hilarious results. This headless doll: — spenceralthouse Stephen, with a “ph:” —Steven Sarron, Facebook These word mix-ups: — t99 The most glorious face-swap ever: —Caroline Murphy, Facebook None pizza with left beef: —Madonna Kilpatrick-Kielion, Facebook This woman who is all of us: —Andrea DelMedico, Facebook This incredible Adele cover: — agithaw This yard sard: — mademoiselleraincoat This woman who accidentally sent a pic of Nic Cage instead of her résumé: —Megan Eizabeth, Facebook Lana Moonblood: — haldenrhorer This awful advice from Amtrak: — emilyh4a4 Arson cat: — ashleymaem This dog who’s just trying to make a de-paws-it: — kathyw410 This psychic Snapchat: — missusbush This inspiring advice: — awilliamsc31 Merry Pringles: — jennym4d This school play gone wrong: — abbessthegoddess This edit: — jmc289 This interesting conversation: — caitlynb462 These closed captions: — incarnadine This weird meeting: — leighm4f63 This swearing dog: —Erik Netterfield, Facebook This hilarious truth: — hayleyelizabethy This dumb dog and clever bird: — jennennifer These hurdlers without hurdles: — millatheinternetwolf And this girl who slowly realizes she’s standing under a wasp’s nest: — briaunnasimpson Want to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts? Follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter !   Pick Five Emojis And We'll Tell You What To Do For...    Can We Guess How Much You Cried During The "Vampire...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.