Let's Watch Kid Rock Shoot Foreign-Made Grills Out of the Sky With a Shotgun

Let's Watch Kid Rock Shoot Foreign-Made Grills Out of the Sky With a Shotgun // // // Kid Rock is promoting his brand-new, 100% domestic-made American Badass Grills in quite a unique way. A video posted Instagram shows the rocker blasting foreign-made grills out of the sky with his shotgun. "You know what's American?" the host of the video says. "Catapulting foreign-made grills through the sky and shooting them down because they stink!" The video then shows some kind of giant trebuchet launching a Chinese-made grill through the air. "This is what we think of 'Made in China,'" Kid Rock says as he trains his shotgun on the grill and fires multiple rounds. "In your face, China!" he says at the end of the video The grills will be available in a charcoal version for $99.95 and a gas version for $149.95, both proudly embossed with Rock’s American Badass eagle logo. “I’m not gonna lie. It is more expensive to make things in America. But it’s important to me," Kid Rock said in a statement announcing the grill. "I love America, and I want to do all I can to create manufacturing jobs at home." Watch the video above, and check out more of Kid Rock's gun-toting grill promotion .

Kid Rock is promoting his brand-new, 100% domestic-made American Badass Grills in quite a unique way.

A video posted Instagram shows the rocker blasting foreign-made grills out of the sky with his shotgun.

"You know what's American?" the host of the video says. "Catapulting foreign-made grills through the sky and shooting them down because they stink!"

The video then shows some kind of giant trebuchet launching a Chinese-made grill through the air.

"This is what we think of 'Made in China,'" Kid Rock says as he trains his shotgun on the grill and fires multiple rounds.

"In your face, China!" he says at the end of the video

The grills will be available in a charcoal version for $99.95 and a gas version for $149.95, both proudly embossed with Rock’s American Badass eagle logo.

“I’m not gonna lie. It is more expensive to make things in America. But it’s important to me," Kid Rock said in a statement announcing the grill. "I love America, and I want to do all I can to create manufacturing jobs at home."

Watch the video above, and check out more of Kid Rock's gun-toting grill promotion.

Ted Nugent and Kid Rock Floated as Potential GOP Senate Candidates

ACLU Tells Trump Resistance: 'We'll Do Work in Courts, You Do Work in Streets'

Buchanan on Trump Campaign & Russia: 'Indict Them or Shut Up'

Schumer Threatens Government Shutdown over Trump Wall Funding