Why General Motors Has Already Lost to Tesla
Why General Motors Has Already Lost to Tesla
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Arne Alsin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) The car industry is in the throes of a once-in-a-lifetime disruption towards electric vehicles, but traditional car companies—like General Motors—are, in my opinion, out of position. It’s a classic innovator’s dilemma. Instead of using capital to invest in the future (i.e. Gigafactories), it’s my belief that GM is squandering shareholder cash by buying back company stock. The numbers tell the story: In the five years from 2012 to 2016, GM spent $16.8 billion on stock buybacks.  Just to give you some perspective, that cash represents 30 percent of the value of the company, assuming GM’s current market cap of $56 billion. Meanwhile, Tesla is investing $5 billion to build the Gigafactory, which will dramatically lower the price of electric vehicle batteries, and help Tesla produce their Model 3 at scale. ( Disclosure : We own shares in Tesla.) Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

The car industry is in the throes of a once-in-a-lifetime disruption towards electric vehicles, but traditional car companies—like General Motors—are, in my opinion, out of position. It’s a classic innovator’s dilemma. Instead of using capital to invest in the future (i.e. Gigafactories), it’s my belief that GM is squandering shareholder cash by buying back company stock.

The numbers tell the story: In the five years from 2012 to 2016, GM spent $16.8 billion on stock buybacks. Just to give you some perspective, that cash represents 30 percent of the value of the company, assuming GM’s current market cap of $56 billion. Meanwhile, Tesla is investing $5 billion to build the Gigafactory, which will dramatically lower the price of electric vehicle batteries, and help Tesla produce their Model 3 at scale. (Disclosure: We own shares in Tesla.)

By 2020, Elon Musk says, Tesla will have the ability to produce up to one million electric vehicles per year.

Investors, take note. This is how the story plays out in a disrupted vertical. A young upstart emerges on the scene, on an epic mission and willing to risk it all in an effort to produce an incredible value proposition. Meanwhile, the old guard—in this case GM -- plays protect and defend. And how do they do that? Buybacks.

Buybacks may have inflated the GM’s short-term value by boosting the company’s per share earnings, but the buybacks did nothing to invest in the company’s future. In GM’s 2016 proxy, CEO Marry Barra wrote that the company’s strong performance “enabled us to reinvest in our business...” But “importantly,” she added, “it also enabled us to increase shareholder returns through dividends and our expanded share repurchase program.”

In the same letter, Barra also trumpeted the introduction of the company’s first all-electric vehicle, the Chevrolet Bolt. It’s certainly an impressive vehicle that’s generating positive reviews. But while Barra publicly touts the importance of innovation, renewable energies, and the Bolt—which has its batteries and most of its parts reportedly made in South Korea—I think it’s lip service.

In reality, I don’t see how GM isn’t making a meaningful strategic pivot to electric, especially compared to Tesla. Why?