34 Amazing Ways To Make Your Kitchen Even More Kickass
34 Amazing Ways To Make Your Kitchen Even More Kickass
Add a pop of color to the space under your cabinets with gold contact paper and bright gaffers tape . Just cover the toe kick (that’s what the under-cabinet space is called) with a long strip of the contact paper and add colorful striped accents with the gaffers tape. Get a roll of gold contact paper from Amazon for $15.99 and a five-pack of neon gaffers tape from Amazon for $15.99 . Get all the info here . You can also use washi tape , but it’s not quite as durable as gaffers tape. Increase your storage and counter space with a rolling kitchen island cart you can stow away when you don’t need it. According to reviewer Kendra O’Neill , “This kitchen dolly is exactly what i was looking for for my kitchen! I don’t have a lot of counter space or many cabinets, so I needed something to help, a portable island of sorts. Problem was i wanted something sturdy, not a flimsy cart you see everywhere, but obviously at the best price i could get! The quality is phenomenal! The wood is great looking, smooth, butcher block type top with handles on either side. The only drawback was it took forever to put together…it was not difficult and the instructions were fine, it just has a million screws and pieces, because it is such good quality, so it will last much longer!” Get it from Amazon for $134.96 . Fake a herringbone-tile backsplash on your painted walls with a ruler and a few black paint pens . Check out the full tutorial here . Get a highly-rated black paint pen from Amazon for $5.68 . Set out everyday seasoning, dishes, and more on sleek stainless steel shelving that keeps the clutter at bay. Or put it behind your sink for a neat way to display your dish soap, hand soap, and sponge. Get it from Amazon for $22.51 . Update your appliances with stainless steel contact paper for a more modern look. The cheapest and easiest way to pretend you have brand new appliances. Take a look at the instructions here . Get a roll from Amazon for $6.72 . Rev up your mornings (or after-dinner hours) with a high-quality espresso maker that’ll add a little luxury to your routine. With no wait time between brews, you can make espresso, cappuccino, or lattes for the whole family in no time. Amazon reviewer Hasan has had this machine since 2012, made “over 2400+ cups of cappuccinos made and served to many family and friends I must say that I have gotten every single penny worth from this unit and then some.” Get it from $93.16 . While you’re at it, set up an entire coffee bar/nook to make your mornings seamless. Think a tiered tray filled with creamer, sugar, and coffee toppings like cinnamon and cocoa powder. Learn more here . Emulate Julia Child and set up a pegboard organizer that keeps all your kitchen tools within an easy reach. It’s so soothing to look at. Get the details here . Get white pegboard (pack of two 33”x16” boards) from Amazon for $47.10 . Available in 10 Colors. Use metallic Command hooks and your favorite tea towels to create kitchen curtains that add some coziness. Learn how to re-create the look here . And customize your look with tea- and dishtowels printed with a pattern that brings you joy. hm.com Get the pineapple one from H&M for $5.99 or the set of two cactus print ones from Amazon for $29.99 . Organize your pantry like never before with these vacuum-sealed bulk jars . Just push down and squeeze the air out to keep your ingredients crazy fresh. Get them from Amazon starting at $9.99 . Check out the glass version starting at $15 . And label them with typographic decals that’ll help you remember the difference between baking powder and baking soda. And keep your family or roomies from asking you where the sugar is for the thousandth time. Get the tutorial here and free printable labels here . You can also buy the pre-made labels that are ready to apply here . Store your knives on a magnetic strip on your wall or under your cabinet. roomfortuesday.com thekitchn.com Check out the how-to for the wall display here and the under-cabinet organization here . Get an 18-inch magnetic strip from Amazon for $13.95 . Kick it up a notch with a set of iridescent knives that’ll help you perfectly chop a whole ~rainbow~ of veggies. They’ll look so cool on your magnetic strip. Get a set of five knives from Amazon for $28.32 . Hang an infographic poster that’ll actually teach you a damn thing. popchartlab.com amazon.com The Spices chart even tells you the country of origin and how best to use all the spices and herbs listed. Get the kitchen tools one from Pop Chart Lab for $35 and the spices one from Amazon for $12.99 . Add some style to the most basic chores with a dish drying rack that’s basically a piece of modern art. Get it from Amazon for $38.44 . Also available in white. Transform an unused corner or the side of your fridge into a ~family command center~, complete with calendar, dry erase markers, to-do lists, and more. #OrganizationGoals Inspire yourself here . Get similar wall pockets from Amazon for $23.55 . Display your tablet on a mountable base so you can follow recipes, watch your favorite show, or check the weather with ease. amazon.com amazon.com It also converts to a tabletop stand! Get it from Amazon for $28.99 . Line your windowsill with herb garden mason jars; they’ll look pretty as heck and fill your kitchen with delicious smells. Check out the full how-to here . Or for the less green thumb-inclined, try growing basil and other herbs in a self-watering pot you can keep on your counter. If growing ANYTHING isn’t your thing, it also comes in a version that keeps your store-bought herbs fresher for longer! Get it from Amazon for $19.99 . Decorate your kitchen with functional items, like these surprisingly inexpensive farm-style cutting boards . hm.com hm.com Get it from H&M for $12.99 . Also available in a rectangular shape . Coat your fridge in chalkboard paint to make the perfect weekly menu display or inspiration board. Take a look at the instructions here . Get a quart of chalkboard paint from Amazon for $19.55 . For a less permanent option, try removable chalkboard vinyl . Or punch out gold contact paper polka dots to make your favorite appliance cheerier. Get gold contact paper from Amazon for $15.99 and a ~Martha Stewart~ circle punch from Amazon for $9.51 . Learn more here . Keep pretty lace or floral silicone trivets out to protect your counters and add a dash of flair. amazon.com amazon.com They double as cute decor, so you don’t have to keep them hidden in a drawer. (Rhyme unintentional, but I stand by it). Get a set of them from Amazon for $7.99 . Corral your beverages with a fridge monkey to make your guests feel at home and party-ready. thegrommet.com thegrommet.com Without the danger of bottles or cans rolling out and whacking them in the foot. Get it from The Grommet or The Container Store for $6. De-clutter your cabinets with cutting board and pan organizers. amazon.com amazon.com Even hidden messes will keep your kitchen from being the happy place it should be. Get the one on the left (great for cutting boards, baking sheets, and cake pans) from Amazon for $12.99 and the one on the right from Amazon for $13.77 . Swap your counter seating for transparent barstools that blend in with the surroundings, making your space seem so much bigger. They’re also just super cool. Get bar-height ones from Amazon for $81.68 and counter-height ones for $59.23 . Make any hour happy hour with an elegant bamboo stemware rack that works as both a drying rack and easy-to-grab display. Great for small gatherings of friends…or just shortening the time between getting home from work and having a glass of wine in your hand. Get it from Amazon for $24.99 . Add wooden-dowel legs to your favorite cutting board to turn it into an over-the-stove counter extension. Basically doubling the workspace in your tiny kitchen. Just make sure you use cutting boards that fit properly over two or four burners. Get the full how-to here . Or ditch the drill and buy this bamboo cutting board that’ll fit over two burners or your sink for easy prep work. amazon.com amazon.com Get it from Amazon for $28.67 . Keep your favorite (or prettiest) kitchen tools on an under-the-shelf hanger — not only does it look cool, but it will also make cooking faster and easier. So you’re not rummaging through drawers while your pot boils over. Get it from Amazon for $17.50 . Hang a roll of kraft paper on decorative rope for a grocery list that anyone in the house can add to. ::writes “Oreos” 100 times on the grocery list:: Get a 100-foot roll of kraft paper from Amazon for $19.49 . To hang it, use heavy duty eyelet hooks and rustic-looking rope . Check out all the details here . Keep the vibes good with a floral canvas print that anyone can relate to. Get it from Amazon for $29.99 . Transform the kitchen into a game room with a tabletop ping pong set that’ll protect the surface of your kitchen island. Just be sure to stow away any valuable items beforehand. Get it from Amazon for $129.99 . The set comes with the table top, net, two balls, and two paddles. PLUS if you turn it over, it turns into a backgammon/chess/checkers board. Get ~cracking~! Want even more great product suggestions? Sign up for BuzzFeed’s Gift Guide Newsletter!

1. Add a pop of color to the space under your cabinets with gold contact paper and bright gaffers tape.

Just cover the toe kick (that’s what the under-cabinet space is called) with a long strip of the contact paper and add colorful striped accents with the gaffers tape.

Get a roll of gold contact paper from Amazon for $15.99 and a five-pack of neon gaffers tape from Amazon for $15.99. Get all the info here.

You can also use washi tape, but it’s not quite as durable as gaffers tape.