'Life threatening' winter storm bears down on Northeast
'Life threatening' winter storm bears down on Northeast
Shares               Snow began to blanket cities across the Northeast on Tuesday in what could turn out to be one of the most severe blizzards of the year.  Blizzard warnings have been issued in parts of 8 states in the densely populated Northeast, causing thousands of school cancellations and halting work and travel for millions of Americans. "A very strong winter storm could be life threatening for those who do not pay attention to safety precautions," the National Weather Service warned late Monday. Major cities from Philadelphia to Boston could get between 10 and 20 inches of snow, forecasters said. The storm is set to bring heavy snow and strong winds that could make travel “nearly impossible in many areas,” according to the NWS. Parts of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine are under blizzard warnings.     Nearly 6,000 flights scheduled for Tuesday were canceled, while an additional 690 were delayed, according to the Houston, TX-based aviation site FlightAware.  [240 am] #snow beginning to fill in on radar across coastal #CT  #NYC & Long Island, NY. Snow overspreads most of CT, #RI & #MA b/t 4am-7am. pic.twitter.com/TdYna8DWtt  Nearly half of the cancellations, about 2,580, were at three airports in the New York City metro area: John F. Kennedy, LaGuardia, and Newark Liberty. As of 2:30 a.m. ET, 2,932 schools across the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast corridor were scheduled to close or have delayed opening on Tuesday. Schools in New Hampshire and Massachusetts were impacted the most, with 914 and 630 closings or delays scheduled, respectively. Heavy snow is expected to accumulate quickly, with some areas forecast to see between 2 and 4 inches of snowfall per hour during Tuesday afternoon.   Wind gusts of up to 55 mph could add to the storm's impact. The snow is expected to make many roads impassable and could produce widespread power outages due to the weight of the snow on tree limbs and power lines, the NWS said. The service warned people in the affected areas to stay inside. “Visibilities will become poor with whiteout conditions at times. Those venturing outdoors may become lost or disoriented,” the NWS said in a statement early Tuesday. “So persons in the warning area are strongly advised to stay indoors.”  Could this storm reach into the top 10 of snowstorms for March, April & May? Certainly looks like it! But how far in the top 10 will it go? pic.twitter.com/UrckenkQPR  The storm comes just days before the official start of Spring on March 20, in a region where many welcomed celebrating springlike temperatures just days ago. The weather system dumped a swath of snow on parts of the Midwest before moving east across the country on Monday. Icy road conditions in Chicago , Illinois, led to two car wrecks early Tuesday that involved 34 vehicles. Seven people were transported to local hospitals with minor injuries as a part of those incidents, which occurred on the Kennedy Expressway, officials said. Separately, four men died while removing snow in southeast Wisconsin, where snowfall topped 12 inches in some areas. The men were all between the ages of 64 and 76, according to ABC News affiliate WISN.  Shares                  'Life threatening' winter storm bears down on Northeast   DOJ asks for more time on inquiry into Trump wiretapping allegations   City says drugmaker knowingly let pills flood black market   GOP congressman defends racially charged tweet against critics   Tight budgets could complicate Sessions' vow to fight crime   States seeking Trump travel ban block want new hearing   Verizon sought $925 million penalty for Yahoo's lax security   Photography project captures 'first hello' between parents and newborns   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Friar dog adopted by monastery becomes online sensation   Teen helps elderly man cross the street during hailstorm in act of kindness   Ex-Los Angeles County sheriff awaits verdict in 2nd trial   Key members of Trump's circle under scrutiny for Russia ties   Senator asks ethics office to assess Trump's foreign deals   Carlos the Jackal regrets not killing 'people I should have'   Tribes ask judge to stop Dakota Access oil from flowing   New Michael Brown video does not change outcome, some experts say   Video may shed light on Ferguson police shooting   Shots fired at Ferguson protest sparked by new documentary   Unsolved double murder haunts Indiana town   US applications for New Zealand citizenship jump 70 percent   A familiar name: Democrat Kennedy fights GOP on health care   North Korea blames US and South Korea for Malaysia attack   Criss Angel speaks out after losing consciousness in failed stunt   'Bachelor' Nick Viall is engaged to Vanessa Grimaldi   'Arrow' star Colton Haynes is engaged to Jeff Leatham

Snow began to blanket cities across the Northeast on Tuesday in what could turn out to be one of the most severe blizzards of the year.

Blizzard warnings have been issued in parts of 8 states in the densely populated Northeast, causing thousands of school cancellations and halting work and travel for millions of Americans.

"A very strong winter storm could be life threatening for those who do not pay attention to safety precautions," the National Weather Service warned late Monday.

Major cities from Philadelphia to Boston could get between 10 and 20 inches of snow, forecasters said.

The storm is set to bring heavy snow and strong winds that could make travel “nearly impossible in many areas,” according to the NWS.

Parts of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine are under blizzard warnings.

Nearly 6,000 flights scheduled for Tuesday were canceled, while an additional 690 were delayed, according to the Houston, TX-based aviation site FlightAware.

Nearly half of the cancellations, about 2,580, were at three airports in the New York City metro area: John F. Kennedy, LaGuardia, and Newark Liberty.

As of 2:30 a.m. ET, 2,932 schools across the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast corridor were scheduled to close or have delayed opening on Tuesday. Schools in New Hampshire and Massachusetts were impacted the most, with 914 and 630 closings or delays scheduled, respectively.

Heavy snow is expected to accumulate quickly, with some areas forecast to see between 2 and 4 inches of snowfall per hour during Tuesday afternoon.

AP

Wind gusts of up to 55 mph could add to the storm's impact.

The snow is expected to make many roads impassable and could produce widespread power outages due to the weight of the snow on tree limbs and power lines, the NWS said.

The service warned people in the affected areas to stay inside.

“Visibilities will become poor with whiteout conditions at times. Those venturing outdoors may become lost or disoriented,” the NWS said in a statement early Tuesday. “So persons in the warning area are strongly advised to stay indoors.”

Could this storm reach into the top 10 of snowstorms for March, April & May? Certainly looks like it! But how far in the top 10 will it go? pic.twitter.com/UrckenkQPR — NWS Boston (@NWSBoston) March 13, 2017

The storm comes just days before the official start of Spring on March 20, in a region where many welcomed celebrating springlike temperatures just days ago.

The weather system dumped a swath of snow on parts of the Midwest before moving east across the country on Monday.

Icy road conditions in Chicago, Illinois, led to two car wrecks early Tuesday that involved 34 vehicles.

Seven people were transported to local hospitals with minor injuries as a part of those incidents, which occurred on the Kennedy Expressway, officials said.

Separately, four men died while removing snow in southeast Wisconsin, where snowfall topped 12 inches in some areas. The men were all between the ages of 64 and 76, according to ABC News affiliate WISN.

ABC News' Dominick Proto and Melissa Griffin contributed to this report.