Nearly 6,000 flights canceled as major blizzard hits Northeast
Nearly 6,000 flights canceled as major blizzard slams Northeast 
Shares               Thousands of flights were preemptively canceled on Tuesday in anticipation of what could be the biggest blizzard of the year. The storm is forecast to bring heavy snow and strong winds that could reduce visibility to a quarter mile or less for several hours, making travel “nearly impossible in many areas,” the National Weather Service warned in a statement late Monday.     As of early Tuesday, 5,401 flights into or out of the U.S. were cancelled, while an additional 87 were delayed, according to the Houston, TX-based aviation site FlightAware. The three New York City area airports accounted for nearly half of the cancellations -- more than 2,600 in total for John F. Kennedy, LaGuardia, and Newark Liberty airports. Boston, Baltimore Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. airports also reported significant numbers of cancellations.  How will tomorrows storm compare to others in NYC? Here's a list of the top 5 biggest snowstorms at Central Park since 1869. pic.twitter.com/FkWt3stBDs  In New York City, above-ground MTA trains are scheduled to stop at 4 a.m. local time, while underground subways will continue to operate at a reduced pace. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio declared a state of emergency and warned people to stay off the roads. The city plans to deploy 1,600 snow plows from the sanitation department, plus another 80 snow plows from Department of Transportation. "Do not expect to see blacktop for quite a while," de Blasio said at a news conference late Monday. The National Weather Service issued a blizzard warning through Tuesday evening for several areas in the Northeast -- including the New York City metro area -- from the New Jersey Shore to Connecticut. A blizzard warning refers to sustained or frequent winds of 35 mph or higher. Major cities spanning from Philadelphia to the Boston could see between 10 and 20 inches of snow.  Shares                  Nearly 6,000 flights canceled as major blizzard slams Northeast   Severe winter storm bears down on Northeast   DOJ asks for more time on inquiry into Trump wiretapping allegations   California police force man with knife out of van, kill him   City says drugmaker knowingly let pills flood black market   GOP congressman defends racially charged tweet against critics   Tight budgets could complicate Sessions' vow to fight crime   States seeking Trump travel ban block want new hearing   Photography project captures 'first hello' between parents and newborns   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Disinfecting agent turns Canada city's water bright pink   Critics of GOP health bill get ammunition from budget score   Ex-Los Angeles County sheriff awaits verdict in 2nd trial   Key members of Trump's circle under scrutiny for Russia ties   Senator asks ethics office to assess Trump's foreign deals   Carlos the Jackal regrets not killing 'people I should have'   New video related to Ferguson shooting does not change outcome, experts say   Video may shed light on Ferguson police shooting   Shots fired at Ferguson protest sparked by new documentary   Month after girls found dead, double murder haunts Indiana town   US applications for New Zealand citizenship jump 70 percent   Verizon sought $925 million penalty for Yahoo's lax security   North Korea blames US and South Korea for Malaysia attack   'Bachelor' Nick Viall is engaged to Vanessa Grimaldi   Priyanka Chopra on starring in the 'quintessential American dream'   'Arrow' star Colton Haynes is engaged to Jeff Leatham

Thousands of flights were preemptively canceled on Tuesday in anticipation of what could be the biggest blizzard of the year.

The storm is forecast to bring heavy snow and strong winds that could reduce visibility to a quarter mile or less for several hours, making travel “nearly impossible in many areas,” the National Weather Service warned in a statement late Monday.

As of early Tuesday, 5,401 flights into or out of the U.S. were cancelled, while an additional 87 were delayed, according to the Houston, TX-based aviation site FlightAware.

The three New York City area airports accounted for nearly half of the cancellations -- more than 2,600 in total for John F. Kennedy, LaGuardia, and Newark Liberty airports. Boston, Baltimore Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. airports also reported significant numbers of cancellations.

How will tomorrows storm compare to others in NYC? Here's a list of the top 5 biggest snowstorms at Central Park since 1869. pic.twitter.com/FkWt3stBDs — NWS New York NY (@NWSNewYorkNY) March 13, 2017

In New York City, above-ground MTA trains are scheduled to stop at 4 a.m. local time, while underground subways will continue to operate at a reduced pace.

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio declared a state of emergency and warned people to stay off the roads.

The city plans to deploy 1,600 snow plows from the sanitation department, plus another 80 snow plows from Department of Transportation.

"Do not expect to see blacktop for quite a while," de Blasio said at a news conference late Monday.

The National Weather Service issued a blizzard warning through Tuesday evening for several areas in the Northeast -- including the New York City metro area -- from the New Jersey Shore to Connecticut.

A blizzard warning refers to sustained or frequent winds of 35 mph or higher.

Major cities spanning from Philadelphia to the Boston could see between 10 and 20 inches of snow.

ABC News' Lloyd Whitney, Melissa Griffin and Darren Reynolds contributed to this report.