Big Show changes his life by getting fit and it's showing in the ring too
The giant with the six-pack
The giant with the six-pack Christopher Daniels: At the crossroads of immortality and oblivion Keith Lee helping to change the game for big men in wrestling NXT Recap: Nakamura returns, will challenge for NXT championship at TakeOver: Orlando SmackDown Recap: Randy Orton defeats AJ Styles to secure WrestleMania appearance Austin Aries makes a statement with his official arrival to 205 Live Undertaker rises, Goldberg falls and Raw (mostly) rights the ship after rocky showing at Fastlane Tony Schiavone's memories from the commentary table WWE Fastlane: Goldberg defeats Kevin Owens to win WWE Universal Championship Ring of Honor COO Joe Koff on signing The Hardys and the state of ROH WrestleMania 33 news and information Oral history: Randy Savage versus Ricky "The Dragon" Steamboat Big Show blames Shaq's weight for scuttling WrestleMania plans Eric Young and the brotherhood of wrestling SmackDown Recap: Randy Orton sets the 'Road to WrestleMania' (and Sister Abigail) aflame 205 Live recap: Is the Jack Gallagher versus Neville setup believable? Beth Phoenix joins WWE Hall of Fame class of 2017 No Way Jose finding his way in NXT while drawing from his Dominican roots Ember Moon ready to take the wrestling world by storm DDP reflects on WWE HOF induction, impact of DDP Yoga Mojo Rawley and the Gronkowskis, Mickie James' return and Rhyno's political future The Revival takes pride in being 'top guys' no matter where they may end up Through wrestling, Sami Zayn works against the demonization of Muslims The Big Show always wanted to become a cartoon personality. He had his chance in "The Jetsons & WWE: Robo-Wrestlemania." (0:52) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment ESPN Tennis Editor Joined ESPN in 1998  Follow him on Twitter Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment One morning last summer, The Big Show rose out of bed with the familiar aches and pains that had long followed him from city to city. He managed to take a few heavy-footed steps into a nearby room, stopped and gazed -- reluctantly -- into a mirror for some time. What he saw glaring back at him was a person who had reached the lowest point of his career. Everything hurt. His hips, his knees and most certainly his size-22 feet. More than anything, the 7-foot mountain of a man had become mentally fractured. One of the industry's most iconic performers, the Big Show needed a few moments before clarity set in. When it finally did, he reconciled something he knew, that he had always known, but was too afraid to admit: Giants don't live long. Long dubbed the "world's largest athlete," Big Show couldn't bear the literal weight he had been carrying to and from the ring for more than two decades. Never mind knockout punches and choke slams, the number of times Big Show felt like tapping out were becoming more frequent. "Man, I weighed around 463 pounds," Big Show, whose real name is Paul Wight, recently told ESPN.com. "I wasn't feeling good at all. I was complaining and complaining. I had been a tremendous athlete, but it was a difficult time." Three or four months earlier, Big Show had a passing conversation with John Cena . For Show, the discussion was meant to be his way of coping with the reality of his declining well-being. He wasn't sure if he was looking for sympathy or merely wanted to be heard. What he received was neither. "Cena has a way of putting stuff out there that really makes you think," Big Show said. "He wasn't trying to condemn me or put me down. But he made me think." Arguably the most accomplished performer in the history of the WWE, Cena looked into Big Show's eyes, and in a facetious but dude-you've-got-this sort of way said, "A giant with abs? Who'd want to see that?" Hint, hint, wink, wink. Cena got up and walked away. Big Show saw through the veiled message. Big Show first came on to the wrestling scene in 1995. He was discovered by Hulk Hogan, thanks to a mutual friend who introduced the two. He spent the first five years of his career in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) before signing with the WWE, where he has been -- with the exception of a few months in 2007 -- ever since. Like most other longtime performers, Big Show has undergone plenty of character iterations, but as you'd expect, the linchpin for each has been his imposing size. He's been a multiple-time champion at every stage, and he's held just about every conceivable championship. Now 45, Big Show realizes his window headlining major events has more than likely closed, but that doesn't mean he's out of the spotlight completely. A few weeks ago, Big Show faced another large-scale human being in Braun Strowman to close out Monday Night Raw in the main event. It was a terrific battle that exceeded all expectations as the two giants flashed incredible athletic prowess, and you could hear it from the crowd that filled the Staples Center in Los Angeles. Ultimately, Big Show lost, as you might have guessed, given Strowman's recent push toward the main-event level. Strowman, who is nearly 12 years younger than the Big Show, has the potential to be the next monster heel in the business. The outcome, according to Big Show, wasn't a passing-of-the-torch moment per se, but it was one big guy helping another. "There are many facets to this business, and he's learning the ropes along the way," Big Show said. "He's got that 'it' factor as far as the aggression, the power, the speed, the looks that draw attention." But for Big Show, the match was also a reminder to everyone, including himself, that he is not, and never has been, a cosmetic star, even if the perception from his size suggests so. It's rare to find a person as large as Big Show with a similar athletic skill set, even in a wrestling business that attracts and often nurtures human beings with freakish or unique skills or abilities. In fact, when he first began his career, Big Show remembers being reprimanded if he showcased too much athleticism. "It wasn't supposed to be your character as a big guy," Big Show said. "But our business has evolved where we're seeing more and more guys who are athletic, who can move. They're natural athletes." If you look at how wrestling has changed over the past 20 years, the number of behemoths left in the business has steadily declined. It wasn't too long ago that The Great Khali had a prominent role, and going further back, guys like Kevin Nash, Giant Gonzalez, and before that Big John Studd, King Kong Bundy and Andre the Giant, were mainstream and commanding the attention as major attractions. Today, there are only eight wrestlers in the WWE who are 6-foot-8 or taller. "So at the top of the food chain among big guys, it's very competitive for us," Big Show said. "You don't want to be a big guy who's terrible because you will stand out for the wrong reasons. You want to be The Undertaker . You want to be Kane ." You want to be Braun Strowman. There isn't a fraternity among big men, exactly, but according to Big Show, they have each other's backs, and they're vigilant in helping each other succeed. He knows the frustrations, the impediments, the politics involved, and as superstar, if you can't compartmentalize, it will show. The audience will know. "This is a blessing," Big Show said. "At the end of the day, it's pretty simple, and I tell the younger guys this all the time: 'You're one of the chosen 40 or 50 people in the world working as a performer in the WWE. Put on your spandex, travel the world and go entertain.'" Hey @Shaq ...glad your training!! Because so am I! #GiantAbs  #WrestleMania  pic.twitter.com/1WepdkHqWj - Big Show (@WWETheBigShow) January 15, 2017 Soon after the conversation with Cena, Big Show thought a lot about how to approach the tacit challenge of correcting years of poor choices. The difference is, unlike so many other fleeting and failed moments to get into shape, this time he was looking at the more pressing issue of refuting the belief that men his size don't live a full life. "So I actually spent a couple of months just preparing a game plan," Big Show said. At his size, and with the thousands of minor and major collisions his body has endured, it wasn't as if Big Show was going to join a CrossFit gym and run around the block a few times. It was a long educational process. He had to first find a nutritionist. He had to learn about Vitamin B and D. Even E. Mainly he has to remain dedicated and diligent. This was a lifestyle change, not a diet. He had tried those. Hundreds, in fact, and none worked. Big Show embraced the new reality of replenishing himself with healthy calories, while also re-dedicating himself to a physical fitness routine that works for him. "I remember when he had such a negative mindset," 2017 WWE Hall of Fame inductee Kurt Angle said. "He didn't understand why he had to take care of himself when people his size weren't supposed to live long anyway. "But when he decided to make a change, I was really happy. It's great to see he's going to break the mold of overweight giants." Now, months later, the Big Show has stuck to his plan and weighs in at a rawboned 387 pounds. "To see myself today," he said, "and the way I look and feel, it's a pretty powerful thing." More importantly, Big Show is happy, and it shows in the ring. He'd be the first to tell you that perhaps he is exhibiting too much amusement out there. But, really, who can blame him? After all, he's a giant with a six-pack. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The Big Show always wanted to become a cartoon personality. He had his chance in "The Jetsons & WWE: Robo-Wrestlemania." (0:52)

The Big Show stars in 'The Jetsons & WWE: Robo-Wrestlemania' (0:52)

One morning last summer, The Big Show rose out of bed with the familiar aches and pains that had long followed him from city to city. He managed to take a few heavy-footed steps into a nearby room, stopped and gazed -- reluctantly -- into a mirror for some time. What he saw glaring back at him was a person who had reached the lowest point of his career.

Everything hurt. His hips, his knees and most certainly his size-22 feet. More than anything, the 7-foot mountain of a man had become mentally fractured. One of the industry's most iconic performers, the Big Show needed a few moments before clarity set in.

Editor's Picks Big Show blames Shaq's weight for scuttling WrestleMania plans The wrestling world has waited for Shaq-Big Show to come to fruition at WrestleMania, but Big Show is blaming Shaq's potential weight and embarrassment issues for plans falling apart.

Eric LeGrand named recipient of 2017 WWE Warrior Award Eric LeGrand was named the recipient of the WWE's Warrior Award and will be honored at the WWE's Hall of Fame ceremonies in Orlando.

Keith Lee helping to change the game for big men in wrestling After spending nearly a decade trying to make his way out of Texas, Keith Lee is finally getting recognized as a dynamic and game-changing in-ring performer. 2 Related

When it finally did, he reconciled something he knew, that he had always known, but was too afraid to admit: Giants don't live long.

Long dubbed the "world's largest athlete," Big Show couldn't bear the literal weight he had been carrying to and from the ring for more than two decades. Never mind knockout punches and choke slams, the number of times Big Show felt like tapping out were becoming more frequent.

"Man, I weighed around 463 pounds," Big Show, whose real name is Paul Wight, recently told ESPN.com. "I wasn't feeling good at all. I was complaining and complaining. I had been a tremendous athlete, but it was a difficult time."

Three or four months earlier, Big Show had a passing conversation with John Cena. For Show, the discussion was meant to be his way of coping with the reality of his declining well-being. He wasn't sure if he was looking for sympathy or merely wanted to be heard. What he received was neither.

"Cena has a way of putting stuff out there that really makes you think," Big Show said. "He wasn't trying to condemn me or put me down. But he made me think."

Arguably the most accomplished performer in the history of the WWE, Cena looked into Big Show's eyes, and in a facetious but dude-you've-got-this sort of way said, "A giant with abs? Who'd want to see that?"

Hint, hint, wink, wink.

Cena got up and walked away. Big Show saw through the veiled message.

A look in the mirror and a conversation with John Cena were the triggers that finally allowed The Big Show to make the changes he had to in his life. Lukas Schulze/Bongarts/Getty Images

Big Show on his role in "The Jetsons & WWE: Robo-WrestleMania" The Big Show is more than a choke-slamming, knockout-punching wrestling superstar. Turns out he's a big kid, too. At least that's what he felt like while making "The Jetsons & WWE: Robo-WrestleMania." Big Show plays himself in the animated film, which is available on digital HD and will be out on DVD March 14. Here's what Big Show had to say about the experience: Initial impressions going from a wrestling ring to a cartoon personality? "It's funny. I had a lot to do with the character. As far as the storyline, that was pretty much laid out. I was given the opportunity to be in the iconic cartoon with the Jetsons. To tell you the truth, I haven't done a lot of cartoon voice animations. Like a lot of kids who group up in the '80s, I am a fan of cartoons. For me, it was a really exciting process to be a part of. The work that went into it really amazes me. "I have done movies, and I have done television, and it seems like sometimes these things drag out. But the pace of putting together animation with voiceover was so fast-paced that it was really, really intense. I had so much fun with it. You're laughing the whole time having a good time." You're a busy guy. How'd you find the time? "It's probably time consuming for the average fan, but for a WWE superstar who is involved in many of these projects and outside partnerships, there's always something going on, so I wouldn't notice it was out of the ordinary. It didn't really tax me more than any other project. After 22 years, we're used to operating at a higher tempo. The thing that I can tell you about this is that I had a lot of fun between the conversations on the storyboard, laughing about the characters and their roles, my character." Any beefs with fellow wrestlers while making the cartoon? "Sheamus' character is the epitome of a goody two-shows guy. I keep telling him, 'Look, man, you can't be grumpy anymore. You're like the hero of this thing.' He looks at me with his mohawk like he wants to punch me in the face." So, really, this experience unearthed the kid in you? "When you look at all the things they've made of me between action heroes and video games, this cartoon experience really takes you back to your childhood. These are iconic cartoon characters we're really familiar with like George and Elroy and Rosie. Now forever, I am part of the Jetsons cartoon history. When I was a kid and I'd watch cartoons, they would have the Harlem Globetrotters or someone like them who were unique, you'd see something different, and when you see how iconic this particular cartoon is, it becomes part of your legacy. I can scratch it off my bucket list." What cartoons did you watch growing up? "Oh, 'Thundarr the Barbarian,' 'Captain Caveman,' 'Bugs Bunny/The Roadrunner.' We all remember that. I used to also watch 'He-man' cartoons and 'Battle of the Planets,' a Japanese animation series."

Years later, he's still the real deal

Big Show first came on to the wrestling scene in 1995. He was discovered by Hulk Hogan, thanks to a mutual friend who introduced the two. He spent the first five years of his career in World Championship Wrestling (WCW) before signing with the WWE, where he has been -- with the exception of a few months in 2007 -- ever since.

Like most other longtime performers, Big Show has undergone plenty of character iterations, but as you'd expect, the linchpin for each has been his imposing size.

He's been a multiple-time champion at every stage, and he's held just about every conceivable championship. Now 45, Big Show realizes his window headlining major events has more than likely closed, but that doesn't mean he's out of the spotlight completely.

A few weeks ago, Big Show faced another large-scale human being in Braun Strowman to close out Monday Night Raw in the main event. It was a terrific battle that exceeded all expectations as the two giants flashed incredible athletic prowess, and you could hear it from the crowd that filled the Staples Center in Los Angeles.

Ultimately, Big Show lost, as you might have guessed, given Strowman's recent push toward the main-event level. Strowman, who is nearly 12 years younger than the Big Show, has the potential to be the next monster heel in the business. The outcome, according to Big Show, wasn't a passing-of-the-torch moment per se, but it was one big guy helping another.

"There are many facets to this business, and he's learning the ropes along the way," Big Show said. "He's got that 'it' factor as far as the aggression, the power, the speed, the looks that draw attention."

But for Big Show, the match was also a reminder to everyone, including himself, that he is not, and never has been, a cosmetic star, even if the perception from his size suggests so.

The Big Show's match with Braun Strowman was an eye-opening moment in terms of what the longtime WWE star can still do in the ring. WWE

Looking out for fellow big guys

It's rare to find a person as large as Big Show with a similar athletic skill set, even in a wrestling business that attracts and often nurtures human beings with freakish or unique skills or abilities. In fact, when he first began his career, Big Show remembers being reprimanded if he showcased too much athleticism.

"It wasn't supposed to be your character as a big guy," Big Show said. "But our business has evolved where we're seeing more and more guys who are athletic, who can move. They're natural athletes."

If you look at how wrestling has changed over the past 20 years, the number of behemoths left in the business has steadily declined. It wasn't too long ago that The Great Khali had a prominent role, and going further back, guys like Kevin Nash, Giant Gonzalez, and before that Big John Studd, King Kong Bundy and Andre the Giant, were mainstream and commanding the attention as major attractions. Today, there are only eight wrestlers in the WWE who are 6-foot-8 or taller.

"So at the top of the food chain among big guys, it's very competitive for us," Big Show said. "You don't want to be a big guy who's terrible because you will stand out for the wrong reasons. You want to be The Undertaker. You want to be Kane."

You want to be Braun Strowman.

There isn't a fraternity among big men, exactly, but according to Big Show, they have each other's backs, and they're vigilant in helping each other succeed. He knows the frustrations, the impediments, the politics involved, and as superstar, if you can't compartmentalize, it will show. The audience will know.

"This is a blessing," Big Show said. "At the end of the day, it's pretty simple, and I tell the younger guys this all the time: 'You're one of the chosen 40 or 50 people in the world working as a performer in the WWE. Put on your spandex, travel the world and go entertain.'"

A smaller Show means a happier Show

Soon after the conversation with Cena, Big Show thought a lot about how to approach the tacit challenge of correcting years of poor choices. The difference is, unlike so many other fleeting and failed moments to get into shape, this time he was looking at the more pressing issue of refuting the belief that men his size don't live a full life.

"So I actually spent a couple of months just preparing a game plan," Big Show said.

At his size, and with the thousands of minor and major collisions his body has endured, it wasn't as if Big Show was going to join a CrossFit gym and run around the block a few times. It was a long educational process.

He had to first find a nutritionist. He had to learn about Vitamin B and D. Even E. Mainly he has to remain dedicated and diligent. This was a lifestyle change, not a diet. He had tried those. Hundreds, in fact, and none worked.

Big Show embraced the new reality of replenishing himself with healthy calories, while also re-dedicating himself to a physical fitness routine that works for him.

"I remember when he had such a negative mindset," 2017 WWE Hall of Fame inductee Kurt Angle said. "He didn't understand why he had to take care of himself when people his size weren't supposed to live long anyway.

"But when he decided to make a change, I was really happy. It's great to see he's going to break the mold of overweight giants."

Now, months later, the Big Show has stuck to his plan and weighs in at a rawboned 387 pounds.

"To see myself today," he said, "and the way I look and feel, it's a pretty powerful thing."

More importantly, Big Show is happy, and it shows in the ring. He'd be the first to tell you that perhaps he is exhibiting too much amusement out there. But, really, who can blame him?

After all, he's a giant with a six-pack.