LaVar Ball claims he 'would kill Michael Jordan one-on-one' back in his heyday
LaVar Ball claims he 'would kill Michael Jordan one-on-one' back in his heyday
LaVar Ball claims he 'would kill Michael Jordan one-on-one' back in his heyday UCLA spoofs 'This is SportsCenter' commercial College basketball's coaching carousel: Who's in, who's out? Arizona lands 5-star recruit Akot of Utah T-shirts with Jordan's slip-up going on sale Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment It's official -- LaVar Ball needs a reality check. Claiming his son, UCLA freshman point guard Lonzo Ball, is better than Steph Curry was one thing. Then, seeking a marketing agreement with Nike, Adidas or Under Armour for his boys for a minimum of $1 billion was a whole other thing. But now, saying he could've beaten Michael Jordan back in his day is borderline comedian material. In an interview with USA Today Sports , the 49-year-old basketball dad made the claim that he could beat arguably the greatest basketball player of all time with ease. With a thought-out strategy, of course. "Back in my heyday, I would kill Michael Jordan one-on-one,'' Ball said. "I would just back [Jordan] in and lift him off the ground and call a foul every time he fouls me when I do a jump hook to the right or the left," Ball said. "He cannot stop me one-on-one. He better make every shot 'cause he can't go around me. He's not fast enough. And he can only make so many shots outside before I make every bucket under the rim." It all sounds good until we come back down to earth and out of "Space Jam" and realize some simple, real facts. Ball averaged 2.2 points and 2.3 rebounds a game in 1987-88 season at Washington State, before he transferred to a smaller school seeking more playing time. That same season, what was M.J. averaging? An NBA-leading 35.0 points for the Chicago Bulls. Still not convinced this matchup is a bit lopsided? Ball totaled 56 points for that entire season with the Cougars. Jordan topped 50 points four times during the regular season. And twice in the playoffs. Hey, America loves an underdog though. The only thing is, I don't think Ball thinks he is the underdog here. As the saying goes, we'll believe it when we see it. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

LaVar Ball, 49-year-old basketball dad to his three sons, Lonzo (pictured), LiAngelo and LaMelo, has made some pretty out-there claims before. But saying he could beat Michael Jordan back in his heyday definitely ranks up there. Richard Mackson/USA TODAY Sports

It's official -- LaVar Ball needs a reality check.

Claiming his son, UCLA freshman point guard Lonzo Ball, is better than Steph Curry was one thing. Then, seeking a marketing agreement with Nike, Adidas or Under Armour for his boys for a minimum of $1 billion was a whole other thing. But now, saying he could've beaten Michael Jordan back in his day is borderline comedian material.

In an interview with USA Today Sports, the 49-year-old basketball dad made the claim that he could beat arguably the greatest basketball player of all time with ease. With a thought-out strategy, of course.

"Back in my heyday, I would kill Michael Jordan one-on-one,'' Ball said.

"I would just back [Jordan] in and lift him off the ground and call a foul every time he fouls me when I do a jump hook to the right or the left," Ball said. "He cannot stop me one-on-one. He better make every shot 'cause he can't go around me. He's not fast enough. And he can only make so many shots outside before I make every bucket under the rim."

It all sounds good until we come back down to earth and out of "Space Jam" and realize some simple, real facts.

Ball averaged 2.2 points and 2.3 rebounds a game in 1987-88 season at Washington State, before he transferred to a smaller school seeking more playing time. That same season, what was M.J. averaging? An NBA-leading 35.0 points for the Chicago Bulls.

Still not convinced this matchup is a bit lopsided?

Ball totaled 56 points for that entire season with the Cougars. Jordan topped 50 points four times during the regular season. And twice in the playoffs.

Hey, America loves an underdog though. The only thing is, I don't think Ball thinks he is the underdog here.

As the saying goes, we'll believe it when we see it.

-- Courtney Schellin