Australia to ban children who have not been vaccinated from childcare centres
Australia to ban children who have not been vaccinated from childcare centres 
ustralia plans to ban children who have not been vaccinated from attending preschools and childcare centres following concerns about the influence of the so-called “anti-vax movement”. In a move that received strong backing from medical experts, Malcolm Turnbull, Australia’s prime minister, said he will push for all states and territories to adopt “no jab, no play” laws. The laws, which have been adopted in recent years in the states of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, ban the enrollment of unvaccinated children in childcare facilities unless they have a medical exemption. Mr Turnbull said parents in all Australian states should be able to send their offspring to childcare without risking their child's life. "This is not a theoretical exercise - this is life and death," he said. "If a parent says 'I'm not going to vaccinate my child', they're not simply putting their child at risk, they're putting everybody else's children at risk too." In 2015, Australia removed welfare and tax benefits from parents who refuse to have children vaccinated. The move led to about 200,000 extra children being vaccinated. But the anti-vax movement remains strong, particularly in some rural areas. The movement claims that  vaccines, which immunise against diseases such as polio, mumps, measles and rubella, can cause  autism  and other problems  - a claim  that has been dismissed by scientists. About 93 per cent of children in Australia are believed to be vaccinated – a rate Mr Turnbull hopes to lift to 95 per cent or more. The anti-vax movement has received the support of the anti-migrant party One Nation led by right-wing firebrand Pauline Hanson. She is a strong backer of United States President Donald Trump, who has voiced support for the claims of the anti-vax movement. s Hanson was forced to make a rare public apology last week after she urged parents to have their children “tested” to ensure vaccinations would not harm their children. In fact, as Ms Hanson was forced to admit, no such test exists. She has also admitted that her own children were vaccinated. Public health experts in Australia praised Mr Turnbull’s plan, saying the overwhelming majority of parents supported compulsory vaccinations. "The nature of very small children is that they are at much higher risk of catching infections - because they haven't developed the basic skills of hygiene and safely coughing and sneezing,” Michael Gannon, president of the Australian Medical Association, told Fairfax Media. “If you, as a parent, expect the community to support you by either welfare payments or access to care, then you need to do your bit to contribute to that community by protecting other children."

Australia plans to ban children who have not been vaccinated from attending preschools and childcare centres following concerns about the influence of the so-called “anti-vax movement”.

In a move that received strong backing from medical experts, Malcolm Turnbull, Australia’s prime minister, said he will push for all states and territories to adopt “no jab, no play” laws.

The laws, which have been adopted in recent years in the states of New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, ban the enrollment of unvaccinated children in childcare facilities unless they have a medical exemption.

Mr Turnbull said parents in all Australian states should be able to send their offspring to childcare without risking their child's life.

"This is not a theoretical exercise - this is life and death," he said.

"If a parent says 'I'm not going to vaccinate my child', they're not simply putting their child at risk, they're putting everybody else's children at risk too."

In 2015, Australia removed welfare and tax benefits from parents who refuse to have children vaccinated. The move led to about 200,000 extra children being vaccinated.

But the anti-vax movement remains strong, particularly in some rural areas. The movement claims that vaccines, which immunise against diseases such as polio, mumps, measles and rubella, can cause autism and other problems - a claim that has been dismissed by scientists.

About 93 per cent of children in Australia are believed to be vaccinated – a rate Mr Turnbull hopes to lift to 95 per cent or more.

The anti-vax movement has received the support of the anti-migrant party One Nation led by right-wing firebrand Pauline Hanson. She is a strong backer of United States President Donald Trump, who has voiced support for the claims of the anti-vax movement.