Colbert, Obama's WH Photographer Mock Conway for Microwave Spying Comment

Colbert, Obama's WH Photographer Mock Conway for Microwave Spying Comment // // // // Stephen Colbert and President Obama's former White House photographer Pete Souza both mocked Kellyanne Conway for her remark about the potential for microwaves to be turned into cameras to spy on Americans. Conway pushed back against what she called "fake news" headlines Monday after numerous reports quoted her as having accused Obama of spying on Trump Tower using microwaves. During an interview with the Bergen Record , the senior counselor to President Trump was asked simply whether she knows that Trump Tower was wiretapped. She answered: "There are many ways to surveil each other now, unfortunately," Conway said. “There was an article this week that talked about how you can surveil someone through their phones, certainly through their television sets, any number of different ways. And microwaves that turn into cameras, etc. So we know that that is just a fact of modern life." Conway later clarified that her remarks about the president and wiretapping were intended only as general comments about surveillance. 1/2: On wiretap claims, I have said many times that we are pleased the House/Senate Intel Committees are investigating & will comment after — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) March 13, 2017 2/2: response to Bergen Record was about surveillance articles in news & techniques generally, not about campaign. Headline just wrong. — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) March 13, 2017 Despite that, social media users quickly jumped to ridicule Conway's comments. That included Souza on Instagram, writing, "Someone has been photoshopping one of my photos. For the record, it wasn't me." On "The Late Show," Colbert jokingly turned the show's cameras into microwaves. "It's true, it's true, microwaves that turn into cameras. How do you think we film this show? Jim, show them camera three," he said, before retrieving a Hot Pocket from a microwave and whispering "I miss you" to the 44th president. Watch the clip above - the Conway portion begins about halfway through.

Stephen Colbert and President Obama's former White House photographer Pete Souza both mocked Kellyanne Conway for her remark about the potential for microwaves to be turned into cameras to spy on Americans.

Conway pushed back against what she called "fake news" headlines Monday after numerous reports quoted her as having accused Obama of spying on Trump Tower using microwaves.

During an interview with the Bergen Record, the senior counselor to President Trump was asked simply whether she knows that Trump Tower was wiretapped.

She answered:

"There are many ways to surveil each other now, unfortunately," Conway said. “There was an article this week that talked about how you can surveil someone through their phones, certainly through their television sets, any number of different ways. And microwaves that turn into cameras, etc. So we know that that is just a fact of modern life."

Conway later clarified that her remarks about the president and wiretapping were intended only as general comments about surveillance.

1/2: On wiretap claims, I have said many times that we are pleased the House/Senate Intel Committees are investigating & will comment after — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) March 13, 2017

2/2: response to Bergen Record was about surveillance articles in news & techniques generally, not about campaign. Headline just wrong. — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) March 13, 2017

Despite that, social media users quickly jumped to ridicule Conway's comments. That included Souza on Instagram, writing, "Someone has been photoshopping one of my photos. For the record, it wasn't me."

On "The Late Show," Colbert jokingly turned the show's cameras into microwaves.

"It's true, it's true, microwaves that turn into cameras. How do you think we film this show? Jim, show them camera three," he said, before retrieving a Hot Pocket from a microwave and whispering "I miss you" to the 44th president.

Watch the clip above - the Conway portion begins about halfway through.

Iowa Students Apologize for Wearing Red, White and Blue to Basketball Game

Survey: 3 in 10 College Students Use Loan Money to Pay for Spring Break

New Standard? Pelosi: Congress Must Read ObamaCare Replacement Before Vote