Pictured: The sewer where 200 partygoers attended illegal rave after wading through water-filled tunnels
Pictured: The sewer where 200 partygoers attended illegal rave after wading through water-filled tunnels
ictures have been released of a sewer where around 200 people attended an illegal rave that police have said put lives at risk. Concerned partygoers themselves tipped off police about the dangerous event going on in tunnels underneath bridges in Newcastle on Sunday. Attendees - believed to be students - had to wade through a few feet of water to access the party, where organisers had set up a sound system and lighting. The organisers advertised the licensed event on Facebook and ravers were told to meet at a local pub before being led to the underground venue, at the mouth of the Ouseburn. olice put a stop to the event at 4am after several people who attended contacted the force with their concerns about safety. No arrests have been made, but police said the event was dangerous and organisers put lives at risk. hief Inspector Dave Pickett said: "You can clearly see from the pictures that this is a dangerous site for members of the public, never mind an appropriate party venue. "These events are not licensed or supported by the responsible authorities whose duty is to oversee the safety of the public." e added: "It is not an area that is easy to access so if anyone needed the assistance of the emergency services then they would have been in severe trouble. "We are very lucky that we are not talking about a more serious incident, particularly when you consider that many of those involved were under the influence of alcohol." orthumbria Police are investigating who organised the event and believe university students were involved. he sewer event followed another illegal rave in Newcastle on New Year's Eve when party-goers danced inside one of the towers of the Tyne Bridge.

Pictures have been released of a sewer where around 200 people attended an illegal rave that police have said put lives at risk.

Concerned partygoers themselves tipped off police about the dangerous event going on in tunnels underneath bridges in Newcastle on Sunday.

Attendees - believed to be students - had to wade through a few feet of water to access the party, where organisers had set up a sound system and lighting.

The organisers advertised the licensed event on Facebook and ravers were told to meet at a local pub before being led to the underground venue, at the mouth of the Ouseburn.