Movies and TV Shows to Stream if You’re Snowed In Today
Movies and TV Shows to Stream if You’re Snowed In Today


There’s more to watch than ever before and more streaming services on which to watch them. Here at Watching, a film and TV recommendation website from The New York Times, we direct you toward what’s new and what’s good.

Looking for family-friendly TV shows? Try these. Or where to stream some of this year’s Oscar-winning movies? Right here. Want to know what’s new on Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime and HBO this month? We’ve got you covered.

And if you’re snowed in today, we’ve got a few suggestions below for what you can watch at home.

Ashley Zukerman in “The Code.” Simon Cardwell/ABC TV, via Hulu

Looking for a Conspiracy Series?

‘The Code,’ Netflix, Acorn, Hulu

Two students in the Australian outback crash into a mysterious truck, and footage of the accident makes its way to an ambitious journalist — and his hacker brother. This series has all the hallmarks of a well-done contemporary political thriller: a secret industry with ties to high-ranking government officials; poor people that can be paid off by said shadowy organizations; lots of typing while characters say, “I’m in”; pistol-whipping and torture; an anxiety-building score. If you like slick British or Scandinavian dramas, try this. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Elizabeth Debicki in "The Kettering Incident." T.K.I. Holdings Pty Ltd., via BBC

Looking for a Creepy TV Show?

‘The Kettering Incident,’ Amazon Prime

The Australian drama “The Kettering Incident” is eerie and ethereal — a little bit “Top of the Lake,” a little bit “Twin Peaks,” and heavy on the woodsy supernaturalism in a way that makes everything feel extra off-kilter and surprising.

Elizabeth Debicki stars as a doctor who returns to her hometown 15 years after her childhood friend disappeared under mysterious, perhaps extraterrestrial, circumstances. Her first night back, another young woman disappears. There are combative environmentalists, unexplained cancer clusters, animals and elements of the natural world behaving strangely, plus your standard “unfinished business in a small town” strife and sexual predation that targets young women. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Adam Scott and Lizzy Caplan in “Party Down.” Starz

Looking for a Funny Workplace TV Comedy?

‘Party Down,’ Hulu

“Party Down” aired in relative obscurity on Starz in 2009 and ’10. It stars Adam Scott, Lizzy Caplan, Martin Starr and Ken Marino as L.A. cater-waiters, and is arguably TV’s best and funniest portrait of collective misanthropy. “Party” is one of those special shows that gets better and better upon repeat viewing, and one whose characters seem different to you as you, yourself, mature. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

[Sign up to the Watching newsletter to get recommendations straight to your inbox.]

A scene from “Puffin Rock.” Cartoon Saloon & Dog Ears/Penguin Group

Looking for a TV Series to Watch With Young Kids?

‘Puffin Rock,’ Netflix

In this gentle Irish series, a puffling named Oona and her younger brother, Baba, explore the island of Puffin Rock. Narrated by the actor Chris O’Dowd, each beautifully animated episode sees the characters learn something about the island’s ecosystem. Amid too many kids series full of loud sounds, terrible music and verbose characters, “Puffin Rock” provides a relaxing yet still educational respite. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Adriana Ugarte in “The Time in Between.” Boomerang TV, via Netflix

Looking for a Glamorous Historical Drama?

‘The Time in Between,’ Netflix

This Spanish series (in Spanish with English subtitles; no dubbing) starts in the 1930s, when we meet Sira, a young seamstress. She falls for a drippy guy; she jets off to Morocco with a far more exciting suitor; she also becomes an arms smuggler during the Spanish Civil War and later part of the resistance during World War II. Love, war, amazing costumes, a hugely engaging leading performance from Adriana Ugarte as Sira — there is plenty to enjoy. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Cuba Gooding Jr., left, and Courtney B. Vance in “The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story.” Prashant Gupta/FX

Looking to Catch Up on One of 2016’s Best Shows?

‘American Crime Story: The People v. O.J. Simpson,’ Netflix

FX’s fantastic 10-part mini-series is now available to stream on Netflix. There’s a reason it has won a boatload of awards: It’s fascinating, even if you think you are well versed in the infamous case. Episode 6, “Marcia, Marcia, Marcia,” is the series’s best — and one of the better TV hours of 2016. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

From left, Michel Varisco, her husband, Steve Gleason, and their son, Rivers, in “Gleason.” Suzanne Alford/Open Road Films

Looking for a Documentary That Will Make You Cry?

‘Gleason,’ Amazon Prime

In this emotionally charged documentary, Steve Gleason, a retired New Orleans Saints player, has learned he has A.L.S., a neurodegenerative disease which has caused him to lose control of his muscles — and left him two to five years to live. In an effort to leave something of himself for his then-unborn son, Gleason begins a video diary of his final adventures, interviews with his family members and his thoughts on life. The resulting film, “Gleason,” is a candid and bittersweet testament to living, even when the odds are against you. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

A scene from “The Secret of Kells.” GKIDS

Looking for a Unique Animated Film to Watch With Kids?

‘The Secret of Kells,’ Netflix

A boy living in an abbey in medieval Ireland befriends a forest spirit on his quest to complete the illustrations of a magical book before invading Vikings return. This Oscar-nominated movie gives its fantastical adventure story a whimsical Celtic-inspired style that looks unlike any other animated film your kids have probably seen. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Dave Chappelle in “Block Party.” David Lee

Looking for a Sweaty Concert Movie to Warm You Up?

‘Dave Chappelle’s Block Party,’ HBO

At the height of his Comedy Central sketch show’s popularity, Dave Chappelle threw an open-invite concert in Brooklyn with an all-star lineup that included Kanye West, Erykah Badu and the Fugees. The resulting documentary (directed by the playful French director Michel Gondry) is funny, upbeat and joyous. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Wyatt Cenac and Tracey Heggins in “Medicine for Melancholy.” IFC Films

Looking for an Indie Romantic Drama From one of This Year’s Oscar-Nominated Directors?

‘Medicine for Melancholy,’ Netflix

“Moonlight,” one of 2016’s most acclaimed films and a top nominee at this year’s Academy Awards, is only the second feature film from the director Barry Jenkins. His first, “Medicine for Melancholy,” is available to stream on Netflix.

Set in San Francisco, “Medicine for Melancholy” begins after an awkward one-night stand between strangers. Micah (Wyatt Cenac) wants to learn more about Jo (Tracey Heggins), but she’s not interested. At first. Like Ethan Hawke’s character in “Before Sunrise,” Micah convinces her to spend the day (and night) with him so that they can learn more about each other. (Add it to your Watchlist.)

Other Watching Suggestions

Binge these one-season TV wonders

Riveting true crime documentaries on Netflix

Old Hollywood Movies with Strong Female Lead

Great modern foreign language thrillers

Documentaries for nature nerds

Non-depressing Netflix documentaries