Is your makeup adding YEARS to your face?
Is your makeup adding YEARS to your face?


Makeup is designed to make women look and feel their best - but a poor application technique could end up doing the opposite.

According to the top beauty gurus in the business, applying your foundation, blusher and concealer incorrectly can add decades to your looks.

Here, they share the beauty blunders that are making you appear ten years older - and reveal their top tips for ensuring your makeup works for you.

Did you know that the way you're applying your foundation, blusher and concealer could be adding decades to your looks? Experts share the ways to fix it

Stop using a heavy coverage foundation: Rupert Kingston, co-founder of Delilah Cosmetics, explains that high coverage foundations can really accentuate fine lines and wrinkles. 'It's better to use a lighter, fresher foundation to make the skin look more natural,' he advises. 'Just use concealer where you need it.'

Stay away from pressed powders: Rupert King maintains that they create a heavier, dryer look to the skin. 'Instead, aim for a more dewy, moist look to the skin, it will help to soften those dryers areas where the fine lines can show up. If you still feel too shiny choose a micro fine loose powder and just apply to the centre of the face.'

Avoid nude lipsticks: Rupert believes this hue can make you look sallow and drained and women should choose colours with a fresher coral or peach undertone.

Don't skip the moisturiser: Karla Powell, MUA and brand ambassador for MUA Cosmetics, says that applying make-up to un-moisturised dry skin can enhance your lines. So before applying your make-up pack on a rich moisturiser, which will leave your skin feeling nourished and smoother.

Always do your brows: Brows tend to thin as we age, but having a structured brow can take years off of your face, instantly lifting and defining your eye area. Karla advises avoiding gels and pencils - which can leave brows looking too harsh and ‘drawn on’ - and opt for a powder formula, which will give a much more natural finish. 'Never go too dark as this can age you, aim to choose only a shade or two darker than your hair colour,' she adds.

TOP BEAUTY HACKS Stop using a heavy coverage foundation Stay away from pressed powders Avoid nude lipsticks Don't skip the moisturiser Always do your brows with powder Don't apply blush to the apples of your cheeks Avoid dark eyes

Beware of the blush: Denise Rabor, international makeup artist and founder of Wow Beauty, says many people believe you should apply blusher to the apples of your cheeks, which is incorrect as this can draw your face downwards.

'You should actually brush blusher sparingly from your ear to halfway across your cheekbone, which will make your face look slimmer,' he said.

Avoid dark eyes: Celebrity facialist and makeup artist, Nathalie Eleni, says that dark kohl under the eye can look harsh if not blended so opt for a softer shadow and blend along for a softer finish.

Apply under-eye cream correctly: Eva Alexandrides, managing director and co-founder of 111Skin, explains that the skin underneath the eye is a different structure to the rest of the face and thus is a lot more sensitive. 'Rubbing and pulling at the skin as you apply the cream is a real no go and will make the bags appear worse and more visible.

'Use your ring or little finger when applying cream whilst only dabbing, tapping or softly massaging the area with sweeping strokes. Finally, give it about a minute or longer to absorb before you put any make up on top of it which will prevent any “caking” around the area.'