This literature map of the world is simply brilliant
This literature map of the world is simply brilliant
With that in mind, do you want to expand your reading world a bit? Maybe you want to move away from just Harry Potter/The Da Vinci Code/The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo and all those other books everyone else is reading on their morning commute? Every country is represented by (arguably) the most famous or important book from that country. Obviously, making those distinctions is going to lead to some disagreements. For Russia, War and Peace has been chosen, but it could have easily been several of Dostoevsky’s works. The UK has Pride and Prejudice, which is obviously a important book, but we’re sure some people will be saying it should have been Dickens or Shakespeare. And let’s be honest, Spain should really be represented by Don Quixote, not Carlos Ruiz Zafón’s middlebrow bestseller Shadow of the Wind. But what makes the map really cool, is when it gets to places like Africa, South America and Asia. We all know the classics of Western Literature, but had you heard of I Am a Taxi by Deborah Ellis, or Sony Labou Tansi’s The Antipeople?                    Keep scrolling for next article

One of the things that makes books so powerful is that they can let you sample other cultures and experiences you'll never get to have in your own life.

With that in mind, do you want to expand your reading world a bit?

Maybe you want to move away from just Harry Potter/The Da Vinci Code/The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo and all those other books everyone else is reading on their morning commute?

Well, here is an utterly brilliant literature map of the world, from Reddit user Backforward24.

Every country is represented by (arguably) the most famous or important book from that country.

Obviously, making those distinctions is going to lead to some disagreements. For Russia, War and Peace has been chosen, but it could have easily been several of Dostoevsky’s works.

The UK has Pride and Prejudice, which is obviously a important book, but we’re sure some people will be saying it should have been Dickens or Shakespeare.

And let’s be honest, Spain should really be represented by Don Quixote, not Carlos Ruiz Zafón’s middlebrow bestseller Shadow of the Wind.

But what makes the map really cool, is when it gets to places like Africa, South America and Asia.

We all know the classics of Western Literature, but had you heard of I Am a Taxi by Deborah Ellis, or Sony Labou Tansi’s The Antipeople?

More: 35 books that will change how you see the world

More: 10 books that will make you a better person in 2017