The 10 NBA Free Agents Most Likely to Be Overpaid in 2017 Offseason
The 10 NBA Free Agents Most Likely to Be Overpaid in 2017 Offseason
The 10 NBA Free Agents Most Likely to Be Overpaid in 2017 Offseason With another salary-cap spike on the way this summer, NBA free agency is once again going to be... . There won't be as much money floating around compared to last July. A bunch of teams burned through their rainy-day funds in 2016 (looking at you, Portland Trail Blazers), and cap projections dipped from $107 million to $102 million . Still, plenty of squads will be able to carve out max space or spending power close to it. And with great flexibility come ridiculously huge contracts, many of which will be doled out to talent that isn't worth the money. Players who are overpaid don't stink. It's quite the opposite. They're good enough for teams to talk themselves into shelling out above-market money. These overpays are deliberate and strategic. Aggressive suitors typically try to make sure they offer enough for a player to change digs. That, and in the case of restricted free agents, they're just inflating the price incumbent teams must pay to retain talent. Honorable Mentions The New Orleans Pelicans are ready to give Jrue Holiday a "near-max deal," according to Basketball Insiders' Steve Kyler . In a free-agent market overrun with gettable point guards, this might be a tad high. But Holiday is the best non-superstar floor general available, and New Orleans has to compensate him for the concessions he'll make next to DeMarcus Cousins and Anthony Davis. Max money, or something close to it, feels about right in the current climate.  Kyle Korver doesn't seem like he's going to shop around much in free agency. If he does, the Cleveland Cavaliers didn't give the Atlanta Hawks a 2019 first-rounder just so they could let him sign with the elsewhere. They'll pay what it takes to keep him. It's possible a squad way below the cap peddles a monstrous offer. But at 35, Korver is officially on ring-chasing watch. He's more likely to sign a below-market deal than scour the landscape for an overly generous one.  There's no way the Dallas Mavericks plan on letting Nerlens Noel walk after giving up Justin Anderson (and a first-round pick they won't convey) to get him. They own the right to match any offer he receives and have been looking for their center of the future since before DeAndre Jordan realized free-agency mulligans were legal. Another team can make things interesting by signing Noel to a max offer sheet, but the threat that Dallas' always aggressive front office matches anyway should deter enemy general managers from tying up cap space in a player they won't land.  With Patty Mills and Dewayne Dedmon (player option) hitting the open market, the Spurs have some difficult decisions coming their way. Dedmon has turned into one of their most important players and must be re-signed using cap space. Mills will be expensive, but leaving the offense in the hands of Dejounte Murray and Tony Parker is a fairly big dice roll. Jonathon Simmons may be the most expendable of this triumvirate. He's an active defender, but his three-point efficiency has plummeted. Teams shouldn't need to take an expensive flyer when San Antonio, in all likelihood, isn't planning to give him a truckload of money in the first place. Danilo Gallinari, Denver Nuggets (Player Option) Suitors needn't go over the top to poach Danilo Gallinari. Losing genuine assets for nothing is never good, but he no longer rates as the Denver Nuggets' best player. (Nikola Jokic is a freaking marvel.) The incentive to pay him more than the $16.1 million he's slated to earn isn't there when Denver has approximately all the wings. Wilson Chandler can absorb a lion's share of the combo forward responsibilities, with Juan Hernangomez behind him, still proving he's better than we all thought. Denver is better off allocating cap space—and it has a ton—to the pursuit of an All-NBA talent. Keeping Gallinari for the sake of preserving a trade chip makes some sense if the price is right. But the price isn't going to be right. The 28-year-old is still on the front end of his prime and can serve a variety of functions on the offensive end. Need a primary scorer and shot creator? Gallinari holds his own in one-on-one situations, shoots better than 55 percent on a steady diet of drives and has the NBA's fourth-best free-throw rate among non-bigs. Searching for a high-end scorer who doesn't always need the ball in his hands? More than one-third of his field-goal attempts come as spot-up three-pointers, on which he's shooting 40.2 percent. This level of offensive adaptability should insert Gallinari into the short-term max conversation. He'll no doubt give the Nuggets first crack at retaining him, but his services won't be cheap—or even reasonably priced. JaMychal Green, Memphis Grizzlies (restricted) Price tags on restricted free agents worth a damn usually get default boons. Offer sheets tendered from rival admirers must be inflated to diminish the likelihood they get matched by the incumbent. It's hard to cobble together a contract that truly overpays JaMychal Green under those circumstances. But teams that miss out on this summer's superstar windfall could end up throwing above-market money at him as a short-term backup plan. The Memphis Grizzlies have Green switch between assignments more than anyone on the team. He has defended at least 33 more isolation sets than any of his running mates, and Marc Gasol is the only one who has covered more total ground on the defense. Green is easy to incorporate on offense because he doesn't command a certain number of touches. He's recording Memphis' third-lowest usage rate , and more than two-thirds of his made buckets come off an assist. He can, however, create his own shot in a pinch; he's shooting 50.2 percent off the bounce, up from 30.4 percent in 2015-16. Sprinkle in gritty defensive rebounding and a 37.9 percent clip from deep, and you have one of the NBA's most versatile players, bar none. Fittingly enough, among players who have logged at least 1,500 minutes, Kevin Durant and Nikola Jokic are the only other ones shooting better than 37 percent from three and notching a defensive rebounding rate north of 21. George Hill, Utah Jazz George Hill's future with the Utah Jazz is unclear. The two sides failed to break bread on an extension, so now he enters the free-agent market as one of the most sought-after targets. From Stephen Curry and Kyle Lowry to Jrue Holiday and Chris Paul , most of the big-name floor generals aren't going anywhere. After Jeff Teague and Hill, there's a huge drop-off in talent (sorry, delusional Derrick Rose supporters). One of this summer's cap-rich teams might deem it necessary to shell out max money for Hill's services. That paints the Jazz into a corner, which is the goal. If Gordon Hayward leaves, they can't spin paying as much for a point guard on the wrong side of 30. If he stays, they will have problems squeezing their core under the projected $122 million luxury tax. Give Hayward the max while guaranteeing the salaries of Boris Diaw ($7.5 million) and Raul Neto ($1.5 million), and Utah breezes past $100 million in commitments. And that's if Joe Ingles (restricted), Shelvin Mack and Jeff Withey all walk. Hill isn't signing on for $15 million per year. (Even then, the Jazz would be hard-pressed to evade the tax.) Goran Dragic, Lowry and Paul are the only players who clear 17 points per game while rivaling his assist (23.2) and three-point (41.2) percentages. While he isn't a prototypical superstar, Hill's next deal, whoever it's from, is going to pay him like one. Andre Iguodala, Golden State Warriors Every one of the Golden State Warriors' impending free agents not named Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant (player option) is at risk of being shown the door. That's the cost of keeping the ladder. Golden State doesn't own Durant's full Bird rights. Should he, as expected, opt out of his contract, his max deal will have to be signed using cap space. Floating both Shaun Livingston's and Iguodala's cap holds becomes impossible in that scenario. Anthony Slater Joe Ingles, Utah Jazz (restricted) Joe Ingles' free-agent market rests entirely on whether the rest of the league has caught on to how well he's playing. Let's assume it has, because he's been that good. Ingles is the optimal glue guy—someone whose play style is valuable, often indispensable, but doesn't disrupt an established hierarchy. Almost half of his total offensive looks are catch-and-shoot opportunities, on which he's shooting 44.4 percent. He's crafty enough on drives to keep the defense honest; he passes the ball more frequently when dribbling downhill than any of Utah's other wings. The Jazz don't employ a better perimeter defender. They stick Ingles on shooting guards, small forwards and power forwards, and he doesn't miss a step. He is second on the team in defensive points saved, behind only Rudy Gobert, according to NBA Math . Locking down for a team where the Stifle Tower isn't lurking in the middle poses plenty of challenges, but anytime you have the opportunity to add a multiposition shooter with a defensive heartbeat, you do it. As the Jazz spend elsewhere, presumably on Hayward and Hill, don't be surprised if Ingles' offer sheets creep into mid-eight figures per year. James Johnson, Miami Heat James Johnson, at 30, won't find himself in play for two- or three-year maxes like some of the others on this list. But after repping five teams through the first seven years of his career, he finally has the chance to secure long-term money. He's going to cash in. Johnson has morphed into the Miami Heat's second-best player—equal parts forward and guard, as ESPN.com's Zach Lowe wrote: Hassan Whiteside Few players have showcased Johnson's efficiency as a lead ball-handler. He is shooting 56.6 percent on drives. Out of the 70 players who have staged at least 250 sloping assaults, only Monta Ellis, LeBron James and Stephen Curry have done the same. Ambitious offenses, like Miami's, can stash Johnson at center. He's 6'9", with the strength of a traditional 5. How much will teams pay for what amounts to a toned-down, less established version of Draymond Green? More than we think. Shaun Livingston, Golden State Warriors Shaun Livingston's game runs counter to today's NBA. He's a guard who doesn't shoot threes. He's attempted 16 long balls during his three years with Golden State and made just two. Knowing he'll turn 32 before next season tips off, he doesn't stand out as a hot commodity. But Livingston has found other ways to be effective. He's shooting 76.5— —percent around the basket , which he will reach on command if you surround him with three or four outside threats. The eye test says he has never missed between eight and 16 feet; the stat test seems to suggest he's successful just 49.7 percent of the time. Durant's addition displaced Livingston from the ball a bit, so his assist rate has dipped. But he's fully capable of running point. He's assisting on 22.7 percent of his team's buckets when on the floor for his career. Even with his newish role this season, he's basically maintained that number since joining Golden State as the second-unit headliner. Above all else, at 6'7", Livingston can typically go toe-to-toe with four of the five opponents on the court. There isn't another point guard in the league, starter or backup, who can do the same. Though Livingston prefers to remain with the Warriors, the cap situation puts his future in question. He can take less and continue the team's dynastic pursuits, but the promise of more money and, perhaps, a starting role elsewhere is something he'll at least have to consider. Patty Mills, San Antonio Spurs Patty Mills gets buckets. This summer, he'll get paid. Coming off the San Antonio Spurs bench curtails Mills' per-game production, and he's not a pass-first point guard. But he's averaging 15.6 points and 4.9 assists per 36 minutes while putting down 38.7 percent of his triples since 2014-15. Five other players have hit those benchmarks in as much court time: Darren Collison, Tony Parker, Curry, Durant and Paul. What Mills lacks as a lead distributor, he makes up for by blending in alongside ball-dominant playmakers. He pounces at the chance to create his own looks, but he's shooting 40.6 percen t on standstill three-balls—which account for more than 35 percent of all his field-goal attempts. Using him as the off-guard comes at a defensive cost. At 6'0", he's undersized for a 1, let alone a 2. Even San Antonio has trouble covering up for the height and strength he gives up. But Mills is like a more shot-selection-conscious version of Lou Williams, and J.J. Redick, Los Angeles Clippers Sources told Steve Kyler the Los Angeles Clippers are prepared to pay whatever it takes to keep J.J. Redick. But things get hairy when factoring in Blake Griffin 's (early termination option) and Paul's (early termination option) jaunts into free agency. Full-scale maxes for both stars will run the Clippers more than $65 million in 2017-18. Attach this to their $59.7 million in other guaranteed commitments, and the payroll swells past the luxury tax. This doesn't include new contracts for Raymond Felton, Luc Mbah a Moute (player option) or Marreese Speights (player option). Maybe the Clippers are willing to live deep in the bowels of luxury-tax purgatory for a core that isn't good enough to beat the Warriors. They probably are. But that doesn't change Redick's market value. Shooting ages well, and he's a damn good shooter. More than 150 players have jacked 400-plus three-pointers over the last three seasons. Kyle Korver is the only one of them with a higher success rate than Redick. After spending the last four years on a team-friendly contract, the 32-year-old has every reason to test the open waters and suss out the most generous offers. At least one rival general manager will consider doubling his $7.4 million salary—or paying him even more than that—for a chance to whisk him out of Hollywood. Andre Roberson, Oklahoma City Thunder (Restricted) Andre Roberson is going to be a quintessential gauge for how far aggressive buyers will go to poach a quality restricted free agent. The Oklahoma City Thunder need him. He is, by far, their best perimeter pest. He places in the 88th percentile of points allowed per possession against pick-and-roll ball-handlers and has added more value on defense than stud wings such as Danny Green and Otto Porter, per NBA Math . At the same time, Roberson has yet to develop into a dependable three-point marksman. He's shooting 26.2 percent from distance, even though almost 85 percent of his looks have gone uncontested. "Obviously, Dre does a lot for our club," general manager Sam Presti said after the trade deadline, per the 's Erik Horne . "We see him as being an important piece going forward. We're excited about having him, and I think there's a commitment to him in that regard." Not exactly a ringing endorsement. Presti is known for moving soon-to-be restricted free agents rather than losing them for nothing, so maybe the plan is to re-sign Roberson. But the Thunder will have more than $111.5 million in guaranteed money on next year's books once they pick up Jerami Grant's team option, and Roberson will cost eight figures annually on a good deal. Blowing past the luxury tax for a defensive-minded wing who can't shoot is fine if you're a patented championship contender, not when you're a team trapped in the middle. Roberson is a flight risk no matter what, and that will only bring out opportunistic deep-pocketed suitors who are looking to make a splash.  Hardwood Knocks Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

1 of 12

Rocky Widner/Getty Images

With another salary-cap spike on the way this summer, NBA free agency is once again going to be...lit.

There won't be as much money floating around compared to last July. A bunch of teams burned through their rainy-day funds in 2016 (looking at you, Portland Trail Blazers), and cap projections dipped from $107 million to $102 million.

Still, plenty of squads will be able to carve out max space or spending power close to it. And with great flexibility come ridiculously huge contracts, many of which will be doled out to talent that isn't worth the money.

Players who are overpaid don't stink. It's quite the opposite. They're good enough for teams to talk themselves into shelling out above-market money.

These overpays are deliberate and strategic. Aggressive suitors typically try to make sure they offer enough for a player to change digs. That, and in the case of restricted free agents, they're just inflating the price incumbent teams must pay to retain talent.

Max-contract formalities—such as Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Otto Porter—will not be included in this exercise. Those values are set, even if the recipients aren't worth the bill. We're interested only in those who stand to capitalize on their undefined price tag.