Australia has the capacity to ride the wave, should a financial crisis make its way to our shores



Australia has the capacity to ride the wave, should a financial crisis make its way to our shores

Posted

I'll admit I'm guilty of talking down the economy. The problem I guess is that I see its dark side all too often.

I regularly talk to people who say they're underemployed, or they're struggling with their mortgage repayments, or they're frustrated because they can't get a foot into the Sydney or Melbourne property markets.

You can't ignore all of that, but I think it's time for a bit of a pep talk.

With that in mind, I want to pose an important question: how tough is the Australian economy, should the storm clouds roll in again from overseas?

As it turns out, the economy does have quite a bit of fight in it.

It's the Australian way isn't it? We always prove our worth when the chips are down.

Storm clouds brewing on three continents

Do you surf? If you do you'll know about "sets". They're groups of bigger-than-normal waves that roll in occasionally. Great for surfing.

Occasionally, within those sets, is a "dumper". A wave so big, if you're not ready for it, will dump you.

Financial crises take on a similar form. Markets are consistently battling waves, but occasionally something will come and knock the wind out of most market participants.

The global financial crisis was the last "dumper".

So when's the next one coming? The truth is of course no-one knows.

There are a few economic regions though that are in the danger zone. They include: Western Europe, China, and the United States.

I could throw a whole bunch of statistics at you, but that's often hard to digest. And what really is the difference between "billions" and "trillions" of dollars when you start talking about a financial crisis?

What I can tell you is that there's still a heck of a lot of debt circulating around the world (the same stuff that led to the financial crisis … and there's now more of it!) and it's only really a matter of time before another country runs out of money or a bank collapses.

That's not alarmist, it's been happening for centuries, and it doesn't always lead to financial panic.

China is front and centre

I do, however, want to quickly highlight a bit of a spooky financial development in China.

Banks are complicated beasts, but at their heart, have a remarkably basic function. They take in deposits, and then lend that money out … earning a profit on the margin between the different rates.

Chinese banks are no different, and for years now they have been enjoying strong lending growth. The Communist Party is now keen to rein that in — because it's unsustainable — but the banks (and the economy) have become too used to the thrill of booming business.

The result is that the banks are now circumventing stricter lending rules by lending to what are called "shadow banks" (think credit unions), and those shadow banks are then lending to property developers.

The banks are funding those loans, not through deposits, but through what are known as 'wealth management products' — not considered the safest of debt.

Long story short, independent economist Saul Eslake told me it has to stop, or at the very least slow down.

There will be a good opportunity for the Government to announce a crackdown on this sort of dodgy lending at the National Congress of the Communist Party later this year (big 5-year event).

Mr Eslake warned though, that if these "cheeky" bank lending practices continue well into next year, and beyond, "there's a 50/50 probability of a Chinese financial crisis before the end of the decade".

That would obviously be a significant threat to Australia's economy, not least of which would be a crash in the price of iron ore.

So how well placed is Australia to handle a financial 'dumper'?

Enough doom and gloom. If you're still reading, it's time for the good stuff.

It turns out, the Australian economy is pretty decent at surfing. Come again?

What I mean is that — to continue with the wave analogy — surfers handle the big dumpers by holding their breath and diving under the wave.

It's the best way to get past it. I'm now going to show you how the Australian economy is well placed to dive under that wave, and re-emerge.

Australian dollar

The Australian dollar has spent much of the year between 70 and 80 US cents. Economists tell me though there is about a 25 US cent buffer zone where the dollar could fall without causing major financial disruption.

If it did fall that hard, Australia's exports would become far more competitive. Tourism and education (key sectors of this "new economy" policy makers are trying to move the country towards) would also benefit greatly.

Inflation would rise (higher import prices), and consumer demand for imports would take a hit, but it would be unlikely to be a disaster.

Reserve Bank fire power

I'm going to say it: the Reserve Bank (RBA) could engage in money printing.

There is a way for the RBA to use its stash of cash (reserves), combined with extra printed money, to buy up foreign bonds and force the Australian dollar down (if it didn't move down on its own).

The RBA could also print money, and use it to buy 10-year government bonds, to bring down long-term interest rates.

Banks invest in those long-term bonds, so if the yields (interest rates) on those bonds fell, they'd be more likely to lend the money out instead — boosting economic activity.

That's all a bit complicated … the point is that the Reserve Bank does indeed have the ability to do this, as an emergency measure.

Reserve Bank documents show various plans have been drawn up already — not because it's likely to happen (frankly it's not), but you always need a worst-case plan.

And before you say it, yes, obviously the already overheated property markets on the east coast are a massive hurdle with this plan.

I suspect in an economic emergency the regulators would work even more closely with the banks to target the nature of their landing.

Government firepower

The Government too could roll up its sleeves.

Australia's current government debt load, by international standards, is relatively low. The nation also has a AAA credit rating.

In short, the Government could borrow more, and what's called "pump-prime" the economy (through infrastructure spending or tax cuts).

The economy would lose its AAA credit rating, and borrowing costs would rise, but it's entirely within the Government's capacity to do this.

This solution could make or break the economic recovery depending on how well it was targeted.

Both the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) have recommended this option for Australia, should a financial crisis make its way to our shores.

There's fight left in us yet

We all want the economy to thrive. Right now, it's just sort of slowly motoring along.

There are those with well-paid jobs and who own a home that are sitting pretty, while far too many Australians are underemployed and are struggling to make ends meet.

If or when the next financial crisis arrives though, the Australian economy has enough fight left in it to spare millions of Australians from what would otherwise be a miserable existence for many years — the sort of miserable existence we've seen millions experience in Greece, the US, and Japan in recent years.

It was one of the reasons Donald Trump won the US election.

At the very least, that's something the majority of Australians can rest easy about … and perhaps even feel a little pride.

Follow David Taylor on Twitter @DavidTaylorABC

Topics: business-economics-and-finance, international-financial-crisis, money-and-monetary-policy, australia