Resources Minister Matt Canavan says states need to 'pull their finger out' on gas exploration



Resources Minister Matt Canavan says states need to 'pull their finger out' on gas exploration

Updated

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and senior members of his Cabinet will meet later today with CEOs of major gas companies to try to avert a looming energy crisis.

Key points: Matt Canavan says states need to start developing their gas

Victorian Energy Minister instead puts blame on amount of Australian gas going overseas

Gas sector lobby group wants Government to cut red tape

But the finger is being pointed at state and territory governments, which the Commonwealth argues is putting energy security at risk by banning gas exploration and extraction.

Federal Resources Minister Matt Canavan said state-level bans on gas development compromised the country's energy security.

"There is no pathway forward for long-term, sustainable and affordable gas in this country unless the states pull their finger out and start developing their gas," he said.

"We are trying today to ameliorate a problem that has emerged because of state and territory government actions, and long-term, we've got to make sure that those actions are changed and we get a different outcome in terms of gas development in Australia."

A number of states have banned or restricted gas exploration and extraction, and Senator Canavan said the biggest concern was the Northern Territory and Victoria.

He said the Federal Government was powerless to do anything about it.

"The gas that we're talking about trying to develop onshore is a state resource," he said.

"It's not a Federal Government resource, we don't have legislation at the Federal Government level that regulates or directs gas development onshore. It is clearly and always has been a state government responsibility."

'The problem is too much of it is going overseas'

But Victorian Energy Minister Lily D'Ambrosio said her state's decision to ban onshore gas exploration, which passed through the Parliament last week, was not to blame for gas shortages.

She argued any looming shortage was because most of Australia's gas was going overseas.

"Two-thirds of our gas is being exported," she said.

"We have more than sufficient supply or production of gas in this country to more than adequately meet our needs. The problem is too much of it is going overseas."

Ms D'Ambrosio said the Federal Government should look at reserving some of Australia's gas solely for the domestic market.

"Matt Canavan has got to actually pull his finger out himself and actually decide is he on the side of the big multinational businesses that are making an absolute killing when it comes to selling our gas overseas, or is he on the side of Australian manufacturers and Australian households who are now potentially faced with a gas shortage in two or three years' time," she said.

Reserving gas for the domestic market is not something the Government wants to introduce, although it has not ruled it out entirely.

"In a broad sense, that's not the way we'd like to go down, that's not the best solution here because doing that can only reduce the economics of gas development," Senator Canavan said.

Australian Energy Council CEO Matthew Warren is opposed to any moves towards a gas reservation policy.

"It's very dangerous territory for government to start imposing conditions on the export of gas," he said.

The gas sector has said it would fight any moves to quarantine gas for the domestic market.

Gas sector lobby group Australian Petroleum Production & Exploration Association chief executive Malcolm Roberts is part of today's meeting with the Government and gas companies.

"Reservation does not create any new additional gas, but it creates an element of sovereign risk for investors that will deter investment," he said.

Government needs to cut red tape: Roberts

Dr Roberts wants jurisdictions — particularly Victoria and the Northern Territory — to open up their gas reserves to exploration and extraction.

But he said there were things the Federal Government could be doing too.

"The Federal Government can also look at some of its own regulatory processes, particularly with ensuring that there is a genuine one-stop shop for environmental approvals," he said.

"We need to reduce regulatory costs, and that's in part reducing the delays for project approvals, so when projects can take a couple of years to achieve approvals, that's a significant cost to the project."

Gas extraction can be unpopular — particularly when it is done on agricultural land.

Federal Nationals deputy leader Fiona Nash has in the past supported a moratorium on gas development.

But Senator Canavan, who is also in the Nationals, said his party's policy was clear.

"We can have responsible gas development, but it must be done in a way that protects the environment, protects prime agricultural land, and provides a proper return back to the landowner," he said.

"Now, in some parts of Australia, those three things won't be able to be ticked, so in areas of prime agricultural land, I accept that it may not be the best thing to have gas developed in those areas, that's our policy.

"But to have a whole state banned from gas development, everywhere and anywhere, does not make any sense."

Topics: oil-and-gas, electricity-energy-and-utilities, government-and-politics, federal---state-issues, federal-government, australia

First posted