Juelz Santana & Dave East Hit the Streets in 'Time Ticking' Feat. Bobby Shmurda & Rowdy Rebel: Watch
Juelz Santana & Dave East Hit the Streets in 'Time Ticking' Feat. Bobby Shmurda & Rowdy Rebel: Watch
Juelz Santana & Dave East Hit the Streets in 'Time Ticking' Feat. Bobby Shmurda & Rowdy Rebel: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Last December, Juelz Santana teamed up with Dave East , Bobby Shmurda , and Rowdy Rebel for his explosive record "Time Ticking." On Tuesday (March 14), the Harlem-bred rapper released the visuals for the song, sans Shmurda and Rebel.Â At the topÂ of the video, Santana is on the phone with Rebel discussing the record. After their brief conversation, heÂ and East hit the streets and post up at the corner storeÂ to deliver their hard-hitting verses. Donning a ski mask, the Dipset star flaunts his gaudy jewelry while rapping with a stack of cash in his hand.Â Like his Harlem cohort, East brings the flair as heÂ dishesÂ out his braggadocios verse in aÂ bandana and sunglasses. "I was in and out of court, I had LeBron vision/ Came a long way from that lo meinÂ and that orange chicken," he rapped.  At the end of the video, the phone call between Santana and Rebel resurfaces, with the GS9 rep thanking his fans for the endless support.Â Check out "Time Ticking" below.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Last December, Juelz Santana teamed up with Dave East, Bobby Shmurda, and Rowdy Rebel for his explosive record "Time Ticking." On Tuesday (March 14), the Harlem-bred rapper released the visuals for the song, sans Shmurda and Rebel.Â

At the topÂ of the video, Santana is on the phone with Rebel discussing the record. After their brief conversation, heÂ and East hit the streets and post up at the corner storeÂ to deliver their hard-hitting verses. Donning a ski mask, the Dipset star flaunts his gaudy jewelry while rapping with a stack of cash in his hand.Â

Like his Harlem cohort, East brings the flair as heÂ dishesÂ out his braggadocios verse in aÂ bandana and sunglasses. "I was in and out of court, I had LeBron vision/ Came a long way from that lo meinÂ and that orange chicken," he rapped.

At the end of the video, the phone call between Santana and Rebel resurfaces, with the GS9 rep thanking his fans for the endless support.Â

Check out "Time Ticking" below.Â