Percy Harvin Plans to Retire from NFL After 8-Year Career
Percy Harvin Plans to Retire from NFL After 8-Year Career
After a quiet return to the NFL in 2016, wide receiver Percy Harvin is once again set to retire. Jeremy Fowler of ESPN provided the latest info: A rep for Percy Harvin told me he’s not participating in free agency - plans to retire, for real this time. “He’s done (playing).” Harvin appeared in just two games for the Buffalo Bills this past season, catching two passes for six yards while adding 11 yards on one rushing attempt. The 28-year-old had originally retired after the 2015 season when he totaled 218 receiving yards in five games while dealing with multiple injuries that plagued him throughout his career. He returned to Buffalo in November with the team otherwise losing other top options at the position because of injury. " Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

John Grieshop/Getty Images

After a quiet return to the NFL in 2016, wide receiver Percy Harvin is once again set to retire.

Jeremy Fowler of ESPN provided the latest info:

Harvin appeared in just two games for the Buffalo Bills this past season, catching two passes for six yards while adding 11 yards on one rushing attempt.

The 28-year-old had originally retired after the 2015 season when he totaled 218 receiving yards in five games while dealing with multiple injuries that plagued him throughout his career. He returned to Buffalo in November with the team otherwise losing other top options at the position because of injury.

"I got a lot in my tank," Harvin said at the time, per Sal Capaccio of WGR550.

Unfortunately, an illness once again forced him to the sidelines, effectively ending a once-promising career.

Harvin burst onto the scene as a first-round pick in the 2009 draft, earning a Pro Bowl appearance in his rookie season. In four years with the Minnesota Vikings, he totaled 280 catches for 3,302 yards while scoring 29 total touchdowns as a receiver, rusher and returner.

Although his career with the Seattle Seahawks didn't go as expected, he helped lead the team to a Super Bowl title thanks in part to his kick return for a touchdown.

While he accomplished a lot in his eight years in a league, many will be left wondering what could have been without injuries that limited him to just one full 16-game season.