Disney POSTPONES Beauty and the Beast release in Malaysia
'Beauty and the Beast' shelved in Malaysia despite approval


Walt Disney has shelved the release of its new movie 'Beauty and the Beast' in mainly Muslim Malaysia, even though film censors said Tuesday it had been approved with a minor cut involving a 'gay moment.'

The country's two main cinema chains said the movie, due to begin screening Thursday, has been postponed indefinitely. No reason was given.

Film Censorship Board chairman Abdul Halim Abdul Hamid said he did not know why the film was postponed as it was approved by the board after a minor gay scene was axed.

He said scenes promoting homosexuality were forbidden and that the film was given a P13 rating, which requires parental guidance for children under 13 years of age.

People wait in queue to counter inside cinema at shopping mall in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. They arrived as Disney announced they had shelved the release of its new movie 'Beauty and the Beast' due to backlash over a 'gay' character

Josh Gad (pictured at a New York premiere on Monday) says it was a privilege to play Disney's first openly-gay character

'We have approved it but there is a minor cut involving a gay moment. It is only one short scene but it is inappropriate because many children will be watching this movie,' Abdul Halim told The Associated Press.

He said there was no appeal from Disney about the decision to cut the gay scene.

Disney officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The Star English-language newspaper cited the Disney company as saying the movie was postponed for an 'internal review.'

The film's characters include manservant LeFou, who plays the sidekick to the story's villain Gaston, and, according to director Bill Condon, 'is confused about his sexuality.' Condon has described a brief scene as a 'gay moment.'

Russia last week approved the movie but banned children under 16 from watching it.

Malaysia's censors in 2010 loosened decades of restrictions on sexual and religious content in movies, but still kept a tight leash on tiny bikinis, kisses and passionate hugs. The new rules allowed depiction of gay characters, but only if they show repentance or are portrayed in a negative light. Sodomy, even if consensual, is punishable by up to 20 years in prison and whipping in Malaysia.

The 36-year-old Gad takes on the role of LeFou (above) in the live-action remake of Beauty and the Beast

A man walks in front of the a movie advertising board at shopping mall in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Actress Emma Watson poses for photographers at the Beauty And The Beast' New York Screening at Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center on Monday