Here Are 5 Things You May Not Know About India's Jewish Community
Here Are 5 Things You May Not Know About India's Jewish Community
Here Are 5 Things You May Not Know About India's Jewish Community Ever seen a tiny plant in a crevice of your building wall, alone and petite but valiantly trying to cling to its roots? The Jewish community in India resembles this plant in many ways and has been successful in retaining its identity & culture in this vastness that India is. 1. Here’s how the Jews arrived on the Indian shores India has always been a safe haven for a multitude of religious groups, faiths, castes and sub-castes with Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Sikhism, Buddhism, Jainism & Zoroastrianism amongst the prominent ones, in that order. Judaism is the religion practiced by Jews and has been a part of Indian history and culture for a long time too. In contrast to the oppression and torment it has met in every other part of the world, the Jewish community in India has never faced any kind of persecution throughout the hundreds of years of its presence here. They were one of the first foreign religions to arrive on Indian shores about 2500 years ago and seamlessly merged into the Indian culture, straddling across Maharashtra, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Kolkata and Manipur. 2. The two copper plates and what they signify The Jews of India consist of three major groups, the Cochin Jews or Cochinis, the Baghdadi Jews and the Bene Israelis and two recently discovered groups the Bene Menashe & Bene Ephraim. The Cochin Jews were the first to arrive in India. The earliest proof about their arrival in Cochin are two copper plates presented to them by the ruling King from medieval Malabar in South India. These plates have been preserved carefully by the local Jewish population and can be found in the Cochin Synagogue. Knesset Eliyahoo synagogue in Mumbai indianjews.org Jew Town or Jew Street is a popular area of Cochin and was called by this name due to the massive presence of Jews in this part of the city. There are seven existing synagogues in Kerala, however the Jewish population has dwindled to 26 with its oldest member, Sarah Cohen, age 93, running a tiny trinket store from her home. 3. Bene Israelis, the largest Jewish community in India Bene Israel community in India  jewishbusinessnews.com The Bene Israelis (Sons of Israel) dominate the Jewish population in India today and have settled down in Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Ahmedabad. The Bene Israelis were said to be travelling in a ship that crashed on the shores of Navgaon in the Kolaba District of Maharashtra. Legend says only seven couples survived the crash while the rest were buried at a burial site that exists even today in Navgaon near Alibag. This Jewish group was known as Shaniwar Telis because of their profession as oil pressers who refused to work on Saturday or Sabbath. They adopted many of the local customs, traditions and their surnames, too, and easily mingled with the locals. For example, Ashtamkars were from Ashtami, Rohekars from Roha, Penkars from Pen and so on, all adapting the names of the tiny villages that line the Raigad district. Jews in Mumbai, Thane & Pune boast of a robust and active community which, though small in number, has tried to remain connected to its beliefs and traditions. A majority of Jews from this part of the country speak fluent Marathi and have amalgamated well with their Maharashtrian neighbours, borrowing many a custom and using it during marriages and other religious ceremonies. A large majority of their magnificent synagogues in this region, have been well maintained and the minimum requirement of 10 adults to carry out daily prayers is also easily met. 4. Tradition and culture

Ever seen a tiny plant in a crevice of your building wall, alone and petite but valiantly trying to cling to its roots? The Jewish community in India resembles this plant in many ways and has been successful in retaining its identity & culture in this vastness that India is.

1. Here’s how the Jews arrived on the Indian shores

India has always been a safe haven for a multitude of religious groups, faiths, castes and sub-castes with Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Sikhism, Buddhism, Jainism & Zoroastrianism amongst the prominent ones, in that order. Judaism is the religion practiced by Jews and has been a part of Indian history and culture for a long time too. In contrast to the oppression and torment it has met in every other part of the world, the Jewish community in India has never faced any kind of persecution throughout the hundreds of years of its presence here. They were one of the first foreign religions to arrive on Indian shores about 2500 years ago and seamlessly merged into the Indian culture, straddling across Maharashtra, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Kolkata and Manipur.

indianjews.org

2. The two copper plates and what they signify

The Jews of India consist of three major groups, the Cochin Jews or Cochinis, the Baghdadi Jews and the Bene Israelis and two recently discovered groups the Bene Menashe & Bene Ephraim.

The Cochin Jews were the first to arrive in India. The earliest proof about their arrival in Cochin are two copper plates presented to them by the ruling King from medieval Malabar in South India. These plates have been preserved carefully by the local Jewish population and can be found in the Cochin Synagogue.

Knesset Eliyahoo synagogue in Mumbai indianjews.org

Jew Town or Jew Street is a popular area of Cochin and was called by this name due to the massive presence of Jews in this part of the city. There are seven existing synagogues in Kerala, however the Jewish population has dwindled to 26 with its oldest member, Sarah Cohen, age 93, running a tiny trinket store from her home.

3. Bene Israelis, the largest Jewish community in India

Bene Israel community in India jewishbusinessnews.com

The Bene Israelis (Sons of Israel) dominate the Jewish population in India today and have settled down in Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Ahmedabad. The Bene Israelis were said to be travelling in a ship that crashed on the shores of Navgaon in the Kolaba District of Maharashtra. Legend says only seven couples survived the crash while the rest were buried at a burial site that exists even today in Navgaon near Alibag. This Jewish group was known as Shaniwar Telis because of their profession as oil pressers who refused to work on Saturday or Sabbath. They adopted many of the local customs, traditions and their surnames, too, and easily mingled with the locals. For example, Ashtamkars were from Ashtami, Rohekars from Roha, Penkars from Pen and so on, all adapting the names of the tiny villages that line the Raigad district.

Jews in Mumbai, Thane & Pune boast of a robust and active community which, though small in number, has tried to remain connected to its beliefs and traditions. A majority of Jews from this part of the country speak fluent Marathi and have amalgamated well with their Maharashtrian neighbours, borrowing many a custom and using it during marriages and other religious ceremonies. A large majority of their magnificent synagogues in this region, have been well maintained and the minimum requirement of 10 adults to carry out daily prayers is also easily met.

4. Tradition and culture

Sefer Torah books NationalGeographic.com

Don't Miss 32.7 K SHARES 9.5 K SHARES 8.1 K SHARES 13.3 K SHARES 7.4 K SHARES

Jews have their own set of religious rules and follow them quite diligently, thus managing to keep them alive through the generations. “Kosher” food is a major requirement every Jew has to adhere to and the local synagogues play a huge role in helping Jews observe these laws. The observance of Sabbath and important days/festivals like Yom Kippur, Rosh Hashanah, Simhat Torah, Hanukkah, Sukkoth, amongst others, have been instrumental in helping Jews retain their individuality and distinctiveness.

The Jewish sacred books like Torah (or Tanakh), Talmud, Midrash and others are written in Hebrew, and this language is taught by the elders to the younger generation in order to keep it alive. Rabbi Abraham Benjamin, who is based in Thane, Maharashtra, is the first and only Rabbi (Teacher of Torah) from the Indian Jewish Community. He plays an instrumental role as a guide and advisor.

5. Indian Jews and their contribution to society

Actress Sulochana aka Ruby Myers was a Jewish actress

Ever since the Jews settled down in India, their sense of duty and love towards the country has been unshakable. Despite its present miniscule population (approximately 4650 in India, as of date), Jews in India have contributed hugely to the society.

Lieutenant General J F R Jacob was the Former Chief of Staff of Indian Army’s Eastern Command and played a stellar role during the 1971 India-Pakistan war and also during the Liberation of Bangladesh. David Sassoon was instrumental in building the David Sassoon Library in Mumbai, and he also contributed heavily for the construction of various synagogues and public utility spaces in Mumbai and Pune. Nissim Ezekiel was a Sahitya Akademi Award winning poet, playwright and art-critic.

Many Jews entered the Indian film Industry too and notable among them were actor David, actress Ruby Myers aka Sulochana, Nadira and Esther Abraham aka Pramila. In present times, Solomon Sopher is a leading personality playing a major role in the management of various Jewish Institutions and Synagogues in Mumbai and Pune. Ezra Moses, a prominent personality and the present Secretary of the 137 year-old Shaar Hashamaim synagogue in Thane, was recently awarded the Thane Bhushan Award for exemplary social work.

So as I was saying...

Despite having originated from a foreign land, Jews in India have been fiercely proud about India as their motherland and adapted to its cultures, customs and languages, wherever they chose to settle. It is their malleable, peace-loving nature and a progressive outlook that has helped them retain their cultural identity in this fusion of religions, languages and cultures that India is proud to be. With the community being awarded the minority status in Maharashtra after West Bengal, the Indian Jewish community will benefit from the development schemes the Government of India launches for minority communities.