Ben Affleck says he is done with rehab for alcohol addiction
Ben Affleck says he is done with rehab for alcohol addiction
Ben Affleck poses backstage with his award for outstanding directorial achievement in feature film for “Argo” at the 65th Annual Directors Guild of America Awards at the Ray Dolby Ballroom on Saturday, Feb. 2, 2013, in Los Angeles.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Ben Affleck says he has recently completed treatment for alcohol addiction. The actor and director said in a Facebook post Tuesday that it’s the first of many steps toward a positive recovery. I have completed treatment for alcohol addiction; something I've dealt with in the past and will continue to confront. ... He added that he wants to be the best father he can and show his kids there’s no shame in getting help. He also thanked Jennifer Garner for supporting him and caring for their three kids. Garner and Affleck have been separated since announcing their plans to divorce in 2015, but there has been speculation in recent weeks that they have called off their divorce plans . A source told ET last week that there is “no change” in their relationship since they announced they were filing for divorce two years ago. Affleck previously entered rehab for alcohol addiction in 2001. Recently, he has stepped away from directing “The Batman” after almost a year in the job. He will still star in the film as the titular crusader.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

LOS ANGELES -- Ben Affleck says he has recently completed treatment for alcohol addiction.

The actor and director said in a Facebook post Tuesday that it’s the first of many steps toward a positive recovery.

I have completed treatment for alcohol addiction; something I've dealt with in the past and will continue to confront. ... Posted by Ben Affleck on Tuesday, March 14, 2017

He added that he wants to be the best father he can and show his kids there’s no shame in getting help. He also thanked Jennifer Garner for supporting him and caring for their three kids.

Garner and Affleck have been separated since announcing their plans to divorce in 2015, but there has been speculation in recent weeks that they have called off their divorce plans. A source told ET last week that there is “no change” in their relationship since they announced they were filing for divorce two years ago.

Affleck previously entered rehab for alcohol addiction in 2001.

Recently, he has stepped away from directing “The Batman” after almost a year in the job. He will still star in the film as the titular crusader.