Geert Wilders: Dutch right-wing politician sparks national identity debate in election campaign



Geert Wilders: Dutch right-wing politician sparks national identity debate in election campaign

Updated

There is something missing in Geert Wilders' election manifesto.

The populist, who wants to be the Netherlands' next prime minister, does not mention the one word you hear repeated over and over at every campaign launch across the world — jobs.

The 53-year-old has instead run a campaign based on identity.

His slogan is: "The Netherlands Ours Again."

He is anti-Islam, anti-European Union and he wants to promote the things he considers part of Dutch identity, while opposing and banning that which is not.

Whether they like it or not, Dutch voters are talking about identity too.

'Unconstitutional'

Marianne Vorthoren is the director of the Platform for Islamic Organisations in Rotterdam.

She believes Mr Wilders' plan to ban the Koran and shut down mosques is unconstitutional.

"He's talking about Dutch identity but we think Dutch identity, those values in our constitution are the basis of our identity, so if you change it or if you attack it, that's actually going directly against our identity," she said.

Not convinced

It is not an argument that financial adviser Cindy van Kruistum finds convincing.

She says she will be voting for Geert Wilders because he plans to 'de-Islamise' the Netherlands.

"I like our Christmas, I like our Easter, I like our Santa Claus — we have our Dutch traditions and the Left parties are throwing them away as if it's nothing," she said.

The mother of two has a daughter, who is dating a Muslim of Moroccan descent.

She says she has not told him how she is voting, but would have no problem doing so.

"I'm not a racist, when they live here, they should accept how we Dutch people live."

'A low point'

In The Ballentent, the oldest harbour-side bar in Rotterdam, Sjef Schutter looks on at the national debate with a mixture of embarrassment and bewilderment.

The Christian Democrat voter wonders what has become of his country's reputation for tolerance.

"It's terrible, a disaster — just like Trump," he said.

"It's terrible that a well-educated population like the Dutch are coming this low, because that's what it is."

Topics: world-politics, elections, immigration, community-and-society, religion-and-beliefs, islam, netherlands

First posted