Ashley Judd 'Scared' at NCAA Game When Man Said 'We Like Trump'

Ashley Judd 'Scared' at NCAA Game When Man Said 'We Like Trump' // // // //  Actress Ashley Judd wrote a lengthy Facebook post recounting an "uncomfortable" encounter with a Trump supporter at a NCAA basketball game over the weekend. During the Women's March on Washington, Judd famously recited a poem called "Nasty Woman," referencing President Trump's retort toward Hillary Clinton in a debate. "I'm as nasty as a man who looks like he bathes in Cheetos dust," Judd said at the time, adding that she felt Hitler "traded his mustache for a toupee." Judd, an avid Kentucky Wildcats fan, was in Nashville, Tenn. to watch her team play in the semi-finals when a man asked to take a picture with her. The man told her he was from Big Stone Gap, Va., the location and title of one of Judd's latest films. "I love Big Stone Gap... I loved making the movie there," she replied. Judd recalled telling the man how much she liked the town's food and was about to try discussing the sprawling national parkland in the area before feeling "something inside me already clenching." She wrote that the man, "with open hostility," turned to walk away and said to her "we like Trump." Judd said the man's response was part of his silent plan to treat her with "rudeness, aggression and disrespect." "Who knows, maybe he's already done something undignified with the picture or maybe it was just a pretense so he could say something menacing to me," Judd wrote. She continued, writing about the possible responses she wanted to use, like accusing the man of "voting with the KKK" and "dragged his charming town into it" by claiming the old iron-ore hub near the Kentucky state line is full of "misogynists." Judd said college basketball should be a "no politics here" zone. "Blaze" host Dana Loesch called Judd "nuts" for the Facebook reaction. "I think she's absolutely crazy," Loesch said. "That simple statement [we like Trump] is enough to trigger her and she goes into that full meltdown."

Actress Ashley Judd wrote a lengthy Facebook post recounting an "uncomfortable" encounter with a Trump supporter at a NCAA basketball game over the weekend.

During the Women's March on Washington, Judd famously recited a poem called "Nasty Woman," referencing President Trump's retort toward Hillary Clinton in a debate.

"I'm as nasty as a man who looks like he bathes in Cheetos dust," Judd said at the time, adding that she felt Hitler "traded his mustache for a toupee."

Judd, an avid Kentucky Wildcats fan, was in Nashville, Tenn. to watch her team play in the semi-finals when a man asked to take a picture with her.

The man told her he was from Big Stone Gap, Va., the location and title of one of Judd's latest films.

LEAKED AUDIO: Paul Ryan Says He's 'Not Going to Defend Donald Trump

College Removes 'Triggering' Scale From Campus Gym

McCain: If GOP 'Blows' ObamaCare Replacement, It Helps Dems in 2018

"I love Big Stone Gap... I loved making the movie there," she replied.

Judd recalled telling the man how much she liked the town's food and was about to try discussing the sprawling national parkland in the area before feeling "something inside me already clenching."

She wrote that the man, "with open hostility," turned to walk away and said to her "we like Trump."

Judd said the man's response was part of his silent plan to treat her with "rudeness, aggression and disrespect."

"Who knows, maybe he's already done something undignified with the picture or maybe it was just a pretense so he could say something menacing to me," Judd wrote.

She continued, writing about the possible responses she wanted to use, like accusing the man of "voting with the KKK" and "dragged his charming town into it" by claiming the old iron-ore hub near the Kentucky state line is full of "misogynists."

Judd said college basketball should be a "no politics here" zone.

"Blaze" host Dana Loesch called Judd "nuts" for the Facebook reaction.

"I think she's absolutely crazy," Loesch said. "That simple statement [we like Trump] is enough to trigger her and she goes into that full meltdown."

WATCH: Texas GOP Rep. Barton Tells Man to 'Shut Up' at Heated Town Hall

West: Snoop Dogg Should Be Investigated for Trump Mock Assassination Video

Ingraham: Media Totally Ignores Clinton Advisers' Meetings With Russian Amb.