Donald Trump Finally Releases Partial Records Of His Income Tax Returns, 'But They Are From 2005'
Trump Finally Releases Partial Records Of His Income Tax Returns, 'But They Are From 2005'
Donald Trump Finally Releases Partial Records Of His Income Tax Returns, 'But They Are From 2005' It was one of the biggest questions raised against him during the election campaign - Donald Trump's refusal to divulge his tax returns. This had resulted in speculations that he was hiding tax evasion and conflict of interests. But on Tuesday he disclosed some information on his tax filing, but only for the year 2005. The White House said President Trump paid $38 million in taxes on more than $150 million in income in 2005. The dramatic turnaround happened after US news channel MSNBC announced earlier in the day that they were in possession of his tax files. MSNBC host Rachel Maddow said she received the documents from journalist David Cay Johnston, who said on her show that he received them in the mail. The returns, which MSNBC posted on its website, showed Trump paid an effective tax rate of 25 percent. The White House said in a statement that Trump, as head of the Trump Organization, had a responsibility "to pay no more tax than legally required." Trump wrote off $100 million in losses to reduce his federal taxes, according to the documents. The White House said Trump took into account "large-scale depreciation for construction." Trump has refused to release his tax returns, saying his taxes were under audit by the Internal Revenue Service. Presidents and major candidates for the White House have routinely released their income tax returns. Experts say an IRS audit does not bar someone from releasing the documents. At times Trump paid no federal income taxes, according to news reports. That includes at least two years in the late 1970s, the Washington Post reported last year, citing a 1981 New Jersey gambling commission report. The New York Times reported in October that Trump declared a substantial loss in 1995 that could have allowed him to avoid paying federal income taxes for up to 18 years afterwards, based on records obtained by the newspaper.

It was one of the biggest questions raised against him during the election campaign - Donald Trump's refusal to divulge his tax returns.

He had cited an IRS probe as the reason for not disclosing it, even after the tax body gave Trump the clearance to reveal them.

This had resulted in speculations that he was hiding tax evasion and conflict of interests.

But on Tuesday he disclosed some information on his tax filing, but only for the year 2005.

The White House said President Trump paid $38 million in taxes on more than $150 million in income in 2005.

AP

The dramatic turnaround happened after US news channel MSNBC announced earlier in the day that they were in possession of his tax files.

MSNBC host Rachel Maddow said she received the documents from journalist David Cay Johnston, who said on her show that he received them in the mail.

The returns, which MSNBC posted on its website, showed Trump paid an effective tax rate of 25 percent. The White House said in a statement that Trump, as head of the Trump Organization, had a responsibility "to pay no more tax than legally required."

Trump wrote off $100 million in losses to reduce his federal taxes, according to the documents.

The White House said Trump took into account "large-scale depreciation for construction."

Trump has refused to release his tax returns, saying his taxes were under audit by the Internal Revenue Service.

AFP

Presidents and major candidates for the White House have routinely released their income tax returns. Experts say an IRS audit does not bar someone from releasing the documents.

At times Trump paid no federal income taxes, according to news reports. That includes at least two years in the late 1970s, the Washington Post reported last year, citing a 1981 New Jersey gambling commission report.

The New York Times reported in October that Trump declared a substantial loss in 1995 that could have allowed him to avoid paying federal income taxes for up to 18 years afterwards, based on records obtained by the newspaper.

Don't Miss 17.8 K SHARES 24.1 K SHARES 22.8 K SHARES 7 K SHARES

Inputs From Reuters