South Korea prosecutors to question ousted leader next week
South Korea prosecutors to question ousted leader next week
Shares                South Korean prosecutors said Wednesday they plan to question ousted President Park Geun-hye next week over a corruption scandal that removed her from office, as the government announced that an election will be held on May 9 to pick her successor. Park lost her presidential immunity from prosecution after the Constitutional Court ruled Friday to formally end her rule over allegations that she colluded with a longtime confidante to extort money from businesses and allowed her pull government strings from the shadows. Prosecutors said they told Park's lawyer that they'll summon her next Tuesday as a suspect in the scandal. No further details were provided. Dozens of high-profile figures including some top Park administration officials and Samsung heir Lee Jae-yong have already been indicted over the scandal. Park could also face extortion, bribery and other criminal charges, but she has denied any legal wrongdoing and expressed defiance toward her corruption allegations. "Although it will take time, I believe the truth will certainly come out," Park said after leaving the presidential Blue House on Sunday. Park's comments raised worries about a further deepening of the national divide over her fate. Three people died and dozens were injured in violent clashes between Park's supporters and police following Friday's court ruling. By law, a national vote to find her successor must be held within two months of Friday's court ruling, and the Ministry of Interior said Wednesday that May 9 would be the election date. Moon Jae-in, a liberal opposition leader who lost the 2012 presidential election to Park, is the favorite to be the country's next leader in opinion surveys. His campaign got a boost Wednesday when Prime Minister and acting leader Hwang Kyo-ahn, considered the potential leading conservative challenger to Moon, said he won't run. Hwang told a Cabinet meeting that he decided to focus on managing state affairs and resolving political and economic uncertainties triggered by Park's ouster until a new president is elected. Hwang would have been forced to resign and let a deputy prime minister serve as another interim leader if he had stood for the election. South Korean conservatives have been badly hurt by Park's scandal. In early February, former U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon , also regarded as a conservative candidate, withdrew from consideration amid mounting media speculation over his political competence and corruption allegations. Shares                  South Korea prosecutors to question ousted leader next week   White House: Trump paid $38 million in federal taxes in 2005   North Korea threat looms over US envoy Tillerson's Asia trip   Polls open in Dutch election that is barometer of populism   French presidential candidate Fillon charged in jobs probe   Oregon police find 9-year-old last seen at train station   911 dispatcher in Tamir Rice case suspended for 8 days   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Author who penned dating profile for husband has died   Photography project captures 'first hello' between parents and newborns   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   Top Marine testifies on explicit-photo scandal: 'We've got to change, and that's on me'   City says drugmaker knowingly let pills flood black market   3 things to watch for from the Federal Reserve on Wednesday   White nationalist group's tax-exempt status revoked by US   Mexican official: 250 skulls found in clandestine graves   Facing defiance, GOP leaders press ahead on health bill   Broadway theaters to stay open Tuesday night despite snow   Police chasing 1,000s of tips in killing of 2 Indiana teens   How the GOP health care plan would affect women   CBO: 14 million more uninsured next year under GOP plan   'Get Out' star responds to Samuel L. Jackson's criticism of casting   Dave Franco and Alison Brie are married   In Russia, some long for return of monarchy   US applications for New Zealand citizenship jump post-Trump   Gareth Edwards on what George Lucas thought of 'Rogue One'   New Heinz ketchup ads inspired by 'Mad Men'

South Korean prosecutors said Wednesday they plan to question ousted President Park Geun-hye next week over a corruption scandal that removed her from office, as the government announced that an election will be held on May 9 to pick her successor.

Park lost her presidential immunity from prosecution after the Constitutional Court ruled Friday to formally end her rule over allegations that she colluded with a longtime confidante to extort money from businesses and allowed her pull government strings from the shadows.

Prosecutors said they told Park's lawyer that they'll summon her next Tuesday as a suspect in the scandal. No further details were provided.

Dozens of high-profile figures including some top Park administration officials and Samsung heir Lee Jae-yong have already been indicted over the scandal.

Park could also face extortion, bribery and other criminal charges, but she has denied any legal wrongdoing and expressed defiance toward her corruption allegations.

"Although it will take time, I believe the truth will certainly come out," Park said after leaving the presidential Blue House on Sunday.

Park's comments raised worries about a further deepening of the national divide over her fate. Three people died and dozens were injured in violent clashes between Park's supporters and police following Friday's court ruling.

By law, a national vote to find her successor must be held within two months of Friday's court ruling, and the Ministry of Interior said Wednesday that May 9 would be the election date.

Moon Jae-in, a liberal opposition leader who lost the 2012 presidential election to Park, is the favorite to be the country's next leader in opinion surveys.

His campaign got a boost Wednesday when Prime Minister and acting leader Hwang Kyo-ahn, considered the potential leading conservative challenger to Moon, said he won't run.

Hwang told a Cabinet meeting that he decided to focus on managing state affairs and resolving political and economic uncertainties triggered by Park's ouster until a new president is elected. Hwang would have been forced to resign and let a deputy prime minister serve as another interim leader if he had stood for the election.

South Korean conservatives have been badly hurt by Park's scandal. In early February, former U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, also regarded as a conservative candidate, withdrew from consideration amid mounting media speculation over his political competence and corruption allegations.