'Beware of Jews' sign found in north London reported to police

A red-triangle warning sign depicting the silhouette of an Orthodox Jewish man wearing a traditional Fedora hat has been fixed to a lamp-post in north London amid one of the largest Hasidic communities in Europe. Shomrim, a Jewish neighbourhood watch group, which reported the “beware of Jews” sign in Stamford Hill to the Metropolitan police and Hackney council, said it had caused “alarm and distress to local people”. #Shomrim reported to @MPSHackney and @HackneyCouncil this offensive 'Beware of Jews' sign which was fixed onto a lamppost in #StamfordHill  pic.twitter.com/mj8AfQTSSu Barry Bard, Shomrim’s operational supervisor in Stamford Hill, said the incident was the first known sighting of such a sign, which had caused alarm in the local community due to its meticulous planning. He said: “The people of Stamford Hill are very sadly used to instances of antisemitic hate crime, but most of those times it will be verbal abuse or even assault. A lot of the time it will be more of a person-to-person kind of thing, or graffiti, which is more unprofessional. “The person who planned [this sign] has obviously gone to an effort to cause alarm and distress to local people.” Stamford Hill is at the centre of an ultra-Orthodox Jewish and mainly Hasidic community estimated to be about 30,000. Hackney council is expected to remove the sign on Wednesday morning. Diane Abbott, the shadow home secretary and Labour MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington, denounced the sign on Twitter: Disgusting. Unacceptable. https://t.co/uym6OisBsl The Labour MP for Tottenham, David Lammy, tweeted: Despicable, nasty behaviour that has absolutely no place in our community https://t.co/TtlUfsVJO7 The number of antisemitic incidents in the UK rose by more than a third to record levels in 2016, according to data released by the Community Security Trust . The CST, which monitors antisemitism and provides security to Jewish communities, recorded 1,309 incidents of anti-Jewish hate last year, compared with 960 in 2015, a rise of 36%. The previous peak was in 2014, when 1,182 incidents were recorded. Several Jewish MPs have suffered online abuse in the past year. In October, a man was jailed for sending antisemitic messages to the Labour MP Luciana Berger. In February, a man was jailed for harassing the same MP with antisemitic rants.  Hate crime   London   Judaism   Religion   news

A red-triangle warning sign depicting the silhouette of an Orthodox Jewish man wearing a traditional Fedora hat has been fixed to a lamp-post in north London amid one of the largest Hasidic communities in Europe.

Shomrim, a Jewish neighbourhood watch group, which reported the “beware of Jews” sign in Stamford Hill to the Metropolitan police and Hackney council, said it had caused “alarm and distress to local people”.



Shomrim N.E. London (@Shomrim) #Shomrim reported to @MPSHackney and @HackneyCouncil this offensive 'Beware of Jews' sign which was fixed onto a lamppost in #StamfordHill pic.twitter.com/mj8AfQTSSu

Barry Bard, Shomrim’s operational supervisor in Stamford Hill, said the incident was the first known sighting of such a sign, which had caused alarm in the local community due to its meticulous planning.

He said: “The people of Stamford Hill are very sadly used to instances of antisemitic hate crime, but most of those times it will be verbal abuse or even assault. A lot of the time it will be more of a person-to-person kind of thing, or graffiti, which is more unprofessional.

“The person who planned [this sign] has obviously gone to an effort to cause alarm and distress to local people.”

Stamford Hill is at the centre of an ultra-Orthodox Jewish and mainly Hasidic community estimated to be about 30,000.

Hackney council is expected to remove the sign on Wednesday morning.

Diane Abbott, the shadow home secretary and Labour MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington, denounced the sign on Twitter:

Diane Abbott MP (@HackneyAbbott) Disgusting. Unacceptable. https://t.co/uym6OisBsl

The Labour MP for Tottenham, David Lammy, tweeted:

David Lammy (@DavidLammy) Despicable, nasty behaviour that has absolutely no place in our community https://t.co/TtlUfsVJO7

The number of antisemitic incidents in the UK rose by more than a third to record levels in 2016, according to data released by the Community Security Trust.



The CST, which monitors antisemitism and provides security to Jewish communities, recorded 1,309 incidents of anti-Jewish hate last year, compared with 960 in 2015, a rise of 36%. The previous peak was in 2014, when 1,182 incidents were recorded.

Several Jewish MPs have suffered online abuse in the past year. In October, a man was jailed for sending antisemitic messages to the Labour MP Luciana Berger. In February, a man was jailed for harassing the same MP with antisemitic rants.