David Davis: Britain should not be 'frightened' of leaving the EU without a deal
David Davis: Britain should not be 'frightened' of leaving the EU without a deal 
Auto update Davis says SNP failed to work with Government over Brexit avid Davis suggest that the SNP have failed to work with the Government over Brexit. He says the Government believes it is "difficult" that the SNP has called for Scotland to remain inside single market and hints they could reject the proposal. Labour accuses Government of 'recklessness' eir Starmer MP, Labour’s Shadow Brexit Secretary, has responded to David Davis’s admission that the Government has not carried out an assessment of the economic impact of leaving the EU without a deal. He says: The Government is recklessly talking up the idea of crashing out of the EU with no deal. They have repeated the mantra that ‘no deal is better than a bad deal’. But we now know they have made no assessment of the economic impact of the Prime Minister failing to secure a deal. What's clear, from the CBI and others, is that there is no result that would be worse for the British economy than leaving with no deal; no deal would be the worst possible deal. The Government should rule out this dangerous and counter-productive threat before Article 50 is triggered. 'Northern Ireland peace will not be jeopardised' n border arrangements  for Northern Ireland, David Davis says the Government " are not going to do anything that jeopardises the peace process". He says he is confident the two nations and the commission between them will be able to come to a resolution, adding that the common travel area is something both the Irish and British Government want to continue. 'Free movement changes will be about control' avid Davis tells MPs that the Government's new immigration policy will be about control, but it won't be done in a way that damages the economy. He says numbers will not drive migration policy: The issue will be of principle - free movement vs control - rather than number. Brexit Secretary David Davis: this is not a slam the door shut, not pull up the drawbridge, this is an issue of control <<< on immigration 'Tough doesn't mean spiteful' avid Davis says that over the next two years he will have to challenge himself to beccome more diplomatic. He admits that there will be times when the negotiations get tough,  "but tough doesn't mean spiteful". The Brexit Secretay says: I am not one of those who don't like the European project... He says "our friends" across Europe  are disappointed we're leaving and so "I allow considerable amount of slack." And he calls on MPs to be "as calm as possible and as amicable as possible". 'Mortgaging the country’s future to a soundbite' at McFadden, the Labour MP, has accused the Government of “mortgaging the country’s future to a soundbite”. He questions how the Government can say 'no deal' is better than a 'bad deal' when they haven't carried out an economic assessment. He points out that John Major said the WTO is the worst possible outcome. David Davis says this isn't right. DD dismisses John Major's warning that no deal is the worst possible outcome. "No. No. There are ways of making it much worse than that." he Brexit Secretary is asked if MPs and peers would get a vote before the country defaults to WTO rules. He says, yes, the government would make a statement to Parliament. McFadden: And if you come back with no deal? Davis: "We will no doubt make a statement and it's up to parliament to decide what to do" Jeremy Corbyn Tweets... What a shambles https://t.co/zwOdUxNfgQ 'We are a science super-power' avis Davis tells MPs he is not sure about the  future of science funding, but he insists: "We are a science super-power". He says the "golden triangle" of London, Oxford and Cambridge  attract top talent and that he doesn't intend to allow the Brexit process to stop that. David Davis says UK's global dominance in science is directly due to immigration of scientists, says Brexit must not stop that. 'UK will meet obligations to EU budget' ominic Raab, a eurosceptic Tory MP,  asks if other EU leaders are acting more positively. Davis replies that he thinks European countries are keen for a good Brexit outcome. He is asked about future payments to the EU and replies that the UK will meet its obligations. David Davis asked about the £50bn Brexit divorce bill: "We have rights and obligations. Will insist on one and meet the other." Davis downplays need for transitional deals avid Davis suggests that in most cases he hoped the UK can move straight into new arrangements without the need for transitional deals. He says: Best answer in most cases if not all cases is to get something that does not require transition. 'Trade deal possible in 2 years' avid Davis says it is accurate that  the European Commission has not agreed to negotiate a trade deal and Brexit at the same time. He says the Government hopes to secure a free trade deal within two years and that he will discuss the issue of independent agreements with his counterpart Michel Barnier. The Cabinet Secretary says he wants to secure a more ambitious deal than the EU-Canada deal. Brexit Bill will receive Royal Assent on Thursday avid Davis is challenged on why Theresa May has delayed triggering Article. He says the Government only ever committed to triggering the Bill by the end of the month. He tells MPs that the Article 50 bill will receive its Royal Assent on Thursday. 'It's not as frightening as some people say' avid Davis is asked if leaving the EU without a Brexit deal would be a bad thing. He says that no assessments of the economic impact of failure to reach a deal had been carried out since his appointment as Brexit Secretary. He says: Any forecast you make depends on the mitigation you make, and therefore it would be rather otiose to do that forecast before we have concluded what mitigation is possible." You haven't asked me about the upsides - for roughly 60% of our trade we could relax things the other way. Explaining Mrs May's "no deal is better than a bad deal" mantra, Mr Davis said: She said that because in the emotional aftermath of the referendum, there were lots of threats of punishment deals and all the rest of it. We had to be clear that we could actually manage this in such a way as to be better than a bad deal, and that is true. I can't quantify it for you yet. I may well be able to do so in a year's time. It's not as frightening as some people think, but it's not as simple as some people think. He says "it's not possible to calculate" the economic cost of leaving the Customs Union without a Brexit deal. The Cabinet Secretary also suggests that government wants to extend electronic customs checks after Brexit. Adding: When we have finished making the lego blocks, we will build the house. And then we will have the forecast you are talking about. He says he does his job on the basis of facts and analysis- "not throwaway lines in interviews". David Davis asked whether leaving the EU without a Brexit deal would be a bad thing: "We cannot quantify the outcome." Davis: No economic assessment of a no deal avid Davis is speaking before the Brexit select committee with Olly Robbins, the permanent secretary at the Brexit department. He is asked by Hilary Benn if there has been an assessment of the economic impact of leaving without of deal. Mr Davis says there hasn't been since he took the post. He also conforms he spoke to the cabinet  about the prospect of leaving the EU without a deal. Asked if there would customs checks between Northern Ireland and Ireland, Mr Davis says there are already light checks. EU President Tweets... urope will not be "intimidated" by British threats to walk away from trade talks if it cannot get a good deal, European Council president Donald Tusk has said. In a statement to the European Parliament, Mr Tusk dismissed suggestions that a failure to reach agreement in Brexit talks would be worse for the EU than for Britain, telling MEPs: "A 'no-deal scenario' would be bad for everyone, but above all for the UK." Prime Minister Theresa May has said "no deal for Britain is better than a bad deal" in negotiations under Article 50 of the EU treaties, which she is due to trigger at the end of this month. We will not be intimidated by threats that no #Brexit deal is good for UK & bad for EU. No deal bad for everyone, above all for UK. Sturgeon abandons bid to remain in EU icola Sturgeon’s referendum plans were rapidly unravelling last night as it emerged she is to abandon the SNP’s policy of rejoining the EU immediately amid record Euroscepticism in Scotland. Just a day after the Scottish First Minister demanded a second vote on independence, senior Nationalist sources told The Daily Telegraph that Ms Sturgeon would instead try to join the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), whose members include Norway and Iceland. Ms Sturgeon fears that the SNP’s long-standing policy of an independent Scotland joining the EU would put off the 400,000 voters who backed independence in 2014 and also voted Leave in last year’s EU referendum. They represent one quarter of all those who voted for independence. SNP could backtrack on referendum campaign ngus Robertson, the SNP deputy leader, has admitted the party could backtrack on a second independence referendum. In an interview with The Guardian, he said: There may only be days, may only be weeks, but where all of our efforts are currently focused is trying to convince the UK government to come to a compromise agreement protecting Scotland’s place in Europe. If that road runs out and if we have to have that referendum, we will be turning our attention to making sure that we are making the case publicly, intellectually and in every other way so people understand the choice of a hard Tory Brexit or a Scotland able to maintain its relations with the rest of Europe. Scots back Union ood Morning, A poll by YouGov for the Times newspaper has revealed 57 per cent of Scottish voters currently back staying in the UK, its highest level for two and a half years. The dramatic 14-point gap indicates that enthusiasm for independence side has declined since the last referendum, where 55 per cent backed remaining the union to 45 per cent who voted in favour of leaving. t came as the annual Scottish Social Attitudes Survey, published on Wednesday, highlighted a surge in Euroscepticism, prompting the authors to warn that “focusing on EU membership may not be the best way to swing voters in favour of Yes”. Although the authoritative study found record support for independence at 46 per cent, it also said 25 per cent of voters want Britain to leave the EU, with another 42 per cent wanting EU powers to be reduced, totalling 67 per cent of people holding Eurosceptic views. The equivalent figure was 53 per cent in 2014 and 40 per cent when devolution started in 1999.

David Davis is asked if leaving the EU without a Brexit deal would be a bad thing.

He says that no assessments of the economic impact of failure to reach a deal had been carried out since his appointment as Brexit Secretary.

He says:

Any forecast you make depends on the mitigation you make, and therefore it would be rather otiose to do that forecast before we have concluded what mitigation is possible." You haven't asked me about the upsides - for roughly 60% of our trade we could relax things the other way.

Explaining Mrs May's "no deal is better than a bad deal" mantra, Mr Davis said:

She said that because in the emotional aftermath of the referendum, there were lots of threats of punishment deals and all the rest of it. We had to be clear that we could actually manage this in such a way as to be better than a bad deal, and that is true. I can't quantify it for you yet. I may well be able to do so in a year's time. It's not as frightening as some people think, but it's not as simple as some people think.

He says "it's not possible to calculate" the economic cost of leaving the Customs Union without a Brexit deal.

The Cabinet Secretary also suggests that government wants to extend electronic customs checks after Brexit.

Adding:

When we have finished making the lego blocks, we will build the house. And then we will have the forecast you are talking about.

He says he does his job on the basis of facts and analysis- "not throwaway lines in interviews".