Massive winter storm slams Northeast with snow, 2 die in region
Massive winter storm slams Northeast with snow, 2 die in region
Shares               A late-winter snowstorm bore down on the Northeast on Tuesday, blanketing swaths of the region in snow. Because the storm shifted inland from its originally projected path, the New York City area got dramatically less snow than expected. The storm, which stretched from Washington, D.C., to New England, halted school, work and travel for millions of Americans, and two people died in the region as a result of weather conditions created by it. An elderly man was struck by a snow plow and killed in East Hartford, Connecticut, and a 16-year-old girl whose sedan skidded out of control, died after striking a tree in New Hampshire.    Blizzard warnings were issued in parts of nine states in the densely populated Northeast. The hardest hit areas have been in eastern Pennsylvania, northwestern New Jersey and upstate New York, which received 1 to 2 feet of snow. Five states — New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Maryland and Pennsylvania — declared states of emergency. Philadelphia and parts of New York City broke daily records for snowfall, while Atlantic City, New Jersey, a city that has long battled flooding, received over 3 inches of rain, breaking a daily record in that category. The storm comes less than a week before the start of spring.          The latest snowfall numbers and blizzard warnings The storm system made a significant shift inland, leading blizzard warnings in the highly populated coastal metropolitan areas to be canceled.   Blizzard warnings are in effect in nine states, from Pennsylvania to Maine. The highest snowfall levels are expected in the Poconos in Pennsylvania, the Catskill Mountains in New York and the Berkshires in Massachusetts, as well as in New Hampshire, Vermont and Maine. The Poconos had 2 feet of snow as of this afternoon. A blizzard warning was canceled for New York City after the storm shifted west. Seven inches of snow fell in New York City as of this afternoon, while New York City's northwest suburbs have seen over 1 foot. The area, which was forecast to receive up to 20 inches of snow, was also hit with sleet. At least 20 inches of snow was observed in parts of eastern Pennsylvania, but Philadelphia faced just 4 inches of snow.   Gusts topped 60 mph in New Jersey, Rhode Island and Massachusetts. Midday today, the heaviest snow was expected to move across New England, up to Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine. From Hartford, Connecticut, to the Boston area, where it is still snowing, snowfall totals so far range from 5 to 15 inches. Parts of eastern Massachusetts have seen explosive gusts reaching 70 miles per hour.  Heavy wind and snow - no electricity Main Street Worcester, MA. @JimCantore  @weatherchannel  pic.twitter.com/yMqzckEAjH  In Hingham, Massachusetts, just outside Boston, a 60-foot pine tree crashed into a toddler's bedroom, ABC affiliate WCVB reported. The family was downstairs at the time, the station reported.  Inspector says 100-foot, 5-ton pine crushed the roof of this Hingham home. Toddler whose room it crashed through wasn't in crib #WCVBstorm  pic.twitter.com/JarqUOEQWp   New York shifted resources from NYC to central NY New York state shifted its snow-battling resources from New York City to the central part of the state after the storm moved west, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said at a news conference this morning. "Mother Nature is an unpredictable lady sometimes. She was unpredictable once again today," he said. "The forecast said the storm would hit New York City and Long Island the heaviest ... The way the weather pattern is actually shaping up, the storm has moved more westward."   The hardest-hit part of the state is now expected to be central New York, which could see blizzardlike conditions and up to 30 inches of snow, Cuomo said.   While New York City escaped the brunt of the storm, roads and sidewalks are slippery and dangerous, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference this afternoon. In New York City, where schools were closed today, he urged residents to stay inside "while we ride out this storm."   Morning! #blizzard #newyork #newyorkcity #snow A post shared by Mark Beecroft (@markrobert82) on Mar 14, 2017 at 5:20am PDT  Cuomo warned that because New York City and Long Island were seeing sleet, the Wednesday morning commute could be more difficult because of icing. New York City subway service on aboveground sections was suspended today and is expected to resume at 6 p.m. All subway trains made local stops today, and express service is set to resume Wednesday at 7 a.m. The city's buses were running today on limited service and should to return to normal schedules Wednesday at 5 a.m.  Connecticut prepares for up to 2 feet In eastern Connecticut, expected snowfall totals vary widely, from 5 to 10 inches in the eastern part of the state to 12 to 24 inches in central Connecticut, Gov. Dannel Malloy said this morning.   A statewide travel ban was issued Monday, and Malloy said residents appear to be complying. Buses were canceled, and he emphasized that it's important to keep the roads clear, other than for essential travel. Connecticut's state police and National Guard had extra personnel ready to assist motorists who need assistance, he said.  New Hampshire snowfall could reach 4 inches per hour In New Hampshire, the storm was expected to bring 1 to 2 feet of snow, with strong winds and snowfall at up to 4 inches per hour. Perry Plummer, the state's director of homeland security and emergency management, urged drivers to stay off the roads. "The rapid rate of snowfall, coupled with strong wind gusts, will create quickly changing conditions with low to no visibility," he said. "Our biggest concern right now is the treacherous driving conditions ... We’re asking everyone to avoid travel when possible."  Travel largely out of the question As of 5 p.m., the weather prompted at least 6,163 flights in the U.S. to be canceled and an additional 1,719 to be delayed.   New Jersey's Newark Liberty International Airport suffered the most canceled flights, with 1,028. At least 885 flights for tomorrow have already been canceled.   Operations are slowly resuming across Northeast and Mid-Atlantic airports this afternoon.  Runways are treated...the sun is shining...flights are returning to normal. What more could an airport ask for? ??  Amtrak shut down service between New York City and Boston, while its service between Washington, D.C., and New York City was running on a modified schedule. Today 2,932 schools, universities, businesses and government offices across nine states in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast were scheduled to be closed or have delayed openings. Schools in New Hampshire and Massachusetts were affected the most, with 914 and 630 closings or delays scheduled, respectively. Boston schools will be closed Wednesday.    Damage in the Midwest The weather system dumped snow on swaths of the Midwest on Monday before moving east.   Quiet morning in Chicago. #chicago #home #logansquare #blueline #snow #iswinteroveryet #idontthinkwintergotthememo A post shared by Joe Clayton (@joe_claytone) on Mar 14, 2017 at 4:17am PDT  Icy roads in Chicago led to two car wrecks early today that involved 34 vehicles. Seven people were transported to local hospitals with minor injuries due to those incidents, which occurred on the Kennedy Expressway, officials said. Separately, four men died while removing snow in southeastern Wisconsin, where snowfall topped 12 inches in some areas. The men were 64 to 76 years old, according to ABC Milwaukee affiliate WISN-TV.  Shares                  Massive winter storm slams Northeast with snow, 2 die in region   White House: Trump paid $38 million in federal taxes in 2005   Justice Department to announce charges in Yahoo hacks   Gorsuch's environmental record not easy to define   North Korea threat looms over Tillerson's Asia trip   Dutch voting in election seen as barometer of populism   Top Navy officials charged in 'staggering' bribery scheme: Officials   Oregon police find 9-year-old last seen at train station   911 dispatcher in Tamir Rice case suspended for 8 days   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Author who penned dating profile for husband has died   Photography project captures 'first hello' between parents and newborns   Pregnant woman rewards man who offered his seat with a custom trophy   Mom reunited with lost family video found at Goodwill   Villanova's 2016 March Madness win recreated with Legos   South Korea prosecutors to question ousted leader next week   Lone lawmaker crusades against the death penalty in Alabama   Play about Boston Marathon bombing to make world premiere   Top Marine testifies on explicit-photo scandal: 'We've got to change, and that's on me'   French presidential candidate Fillon charged in jobs probe   Cuba tries to reboot its creaky state news apparatus   Mexican official: 250 skulls found in clandestine graves   Facing defiance, GOP leaders press ahead on health bill   How the GOP health care plan would affect women   CBO: 14 million more uninsured next year under GOP plan   McDonald's worker rescues unconscious cop at drive-thru   'Get Out' star responds to Samuel L. Jackson's criticism of casting   Dave Franco and Alison Brie are married   Texas executes man who killed 2 and tried to attack judge   US applications for New Zealand citizenship jump post-Trump   Ben Affleck says he has 'completed treatment for alcohol addiction'   Gareth Edwards on what George Lucas thought of 'Rogue One'   New Heinz ketchup ads inspired by 'Mad Men'

A late-winter snowstorm bore down on the Northeast on Tuesday, blanketing swaths of the region in snow. Because the storm shifted inland from its originally projected path, the New York City area got dramatically less snow than expected.

The storm, which stretched from Washington, D.C., to New England, halted school, work and travel for millions of Americans, and two people died in the region as a result of weather conditions created by it.

An elderly man was struck by a snow plow and killed in East Hartford, Connecticut, and a 16-year-old girl whose sedan skidded out of control, died after striking a tree in New Hampshire.

Andrew Kelly/Reuters

Blizzard warnings were issued in parts of nine states in the densely populated Northeast. The hardest hit areas have been in eastern Pennsylvania, northwestern New Jersey and upstate New York, which received 1 to 2 feet of snow. Five states — New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Maryland and Pennsylvania — declared states of emergency.

Philadelphia and parts of New York City broke daily records for snowfall, while Atlantic City, New Jersey, a city that has long battled flooding, received over 3 inches of rain, breaking a daily record in that category.

The storm comes less than a week before the start of spring.

Win McNamee/Getty Images

The latest snowfall numbers and blizzard warnings

The storm system made a significant shift inland, leading blizzard warnings in the highly populated coastal metropolitan areas to be canceled.

Andrew Gombert/EPA

Blizzard warnings are in effect in nine states, from Pennsylvania to Maine. The highest snowfall levels are expected in the Poconos in Pennsylvania, the Catskill Mountains in New York and the Berkshires in Massachusetts, as well as in New Hampshire, Vermont and Maine. The Poconos had 2 feet of snow as of this afternoon.

A blizzard warning was canceled for New York City after the storm shifted west. Seven inches of snow fell in New York City as of this afternoon, while New York City's northwest suburbs have seen over 1 foot. The area, which was forecast to receive up to 20 inches of snow, was also hit with sleet.

At least 20 inches of snow was observed in parts of eastern Pennsylvania, but Philadelphia faced just 4 inches of snow.

Mark Makela/Getty Images

Gusts topped 60 mph in New Jersey, Rhode Island and Massachusetts.

Midday today, the heaviest snow was expected to move across New England, up to Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine.

From Hartford, Connecticut, to the Boston area, where it is still snowing, snowfall totals so far range from 5 to 15 inches.

Parts of eastern Massachusetts have seen explosive gusts reaching 70 miles per hour.

In Hingham, Massachusetts, just outside Boston, a 60-foot pine tree crashed into a toddler's bedroom, ABC affiliate WCVB reported. The family was downstairs at the time, the station reported.

Inspector says 100-foot, 5-ton pine crushed the roof of this Hingham home. Toddler whose room it crashed through wasn't in crib #WCVBstorm pic.twitter.com/JarqUOEQWp — John Atwater (@AtwaterWCVB) March 14, 2017

New York shifted resources from NYC to central NY

New York state shifted its snow-battling resources from New York City to the central part of the state after the storm moved west, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said at a news conference this morning.

"Mother Nature is an unpredictable lady sometimes. She was unpredictable once again today," he said. "The forecast said the storm would hit New York City and Long Island the heaviest ... The way the weather pattern is actually shaping up, the storm has moved more westward."

Mark Lennihan/AP Photo

The hardest-hit part of the state is now expected to be central New York, which could see blizzardlike conditions and up to 30 inches of snow, Cuomo said.

Drew Angerer/Getty Images

While New York City escaped the brunt of the storm, roads and sidewalks are slippery and dangerous, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference this afternoon. In New York City, where schools were closed today, he urged residents to stay inside "while we ride out this storm."

Morning! #blizzard #newyork #newyorkcity #snow A post shared by Mark Beecroft (@markrobert82) on Mar 14, 2017 at 5:20am PDT

Cuomo warned that because New York City and Long Island were seeing sleet, the Wednesday morning commute could be more difficult because of icing.

New York City subway service on aboveground sections was suspended today and is expected to resume at 6 p.m. All subway trains made local stops today, and express service is set to resume Wednesday at 7 a.m. The city's buses were running today on limited service and should to return to normal schedules Wednesday at 5 a.m.

Connecticut prepares for up to 2 feet

In eastern Connecticut, expected snowfall totals vary widely, from 5 to 10 inches in the eastern part of the state to 12 to 24 inches in central Connecticut, Gov. Dannel Malloy said this morning.

A statewide travel ban was issued Monday, and Malloy said residents appear to be complying. Buses were canceled, and he emphasized that it's important to keep the roads clear, other than for essential travel.

Connecticut's state police and National Guard had extra personnel ready to assist motorists who need assistance, he said.

New Hampshire snowfall could reach 4 inches per hour

In New Hampshire, the storm was expected to bring 1 to 2 feet of snow, with strong winds and snowfall at up to 4 inches per hour.

Perry Plummer, the state's director of homeland security and emergency management, urged drivers to stay off the roads.

"The rapid rate of snowfall, coupled with strong wind gusts, will create quickly changing conditions with low to no visibility," he said. "Our biggest concern right now is the treacherous driving conditions ... We’re asking everyone to avoid travel when possible."

Travel largely out of the question

As of 5 p.m., the weather prompted at least 6,163 flights in the U.S. to be canceled and an additional 1,719 to be delayed.

Scott Eisen/Getty Images

New Jersey's Newark Liberty International Airport suffered the most canceled flights, with 1,028.

At least 885 flights for tomorrow have already been canceled.

Scott Eisen/Getty Images

Operations are slowly resuming across Northeast and Mid-Atlantic airports this afternoon.

Runways are treated...the sun is shining...flights are returning to normal. What more could an airport ask for? ?? — Reagan Airport (@Reagan_Airport) March 14, 2017

Amtrak shut down service between New York City and Boston, while its service between Washington, D.C., and New York City was running on a modified schedule.

Today 2,932 schools, universities, businesses and government offices across nine states in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast were scheduled to be closed or have delayed openings. Schools in New Hampshire and Massachusetts were affected the most, with 914 and 630 closings or delays scheduled, respectively. Boston schools will be closed Wednesday.

Drew Angerer/Getty Images

Damage in the Midwest

The weather system dumped snow on swaths of the Midwest on Monday before moving east.

Quiet morning in Chicago. #chicago #home #logansquare #blueline #snow #iswinteroveryet #idontthinkwintergotthememo A post shared by Joe Clayton (@joe_claytone) on Mar 14, 2017 at 4:17am PDT

Icy roads in Chicago led to two car wrecks early today that involved 34 vehicles.

Seven people were transported to local hospitals with minor injuries due to those incidents, which occurred on the Kennedy Expressway, officials said.

Separately, four men died while removing snow in southeastern Wisconsin, where snowfall topped 12 inches in some areas. The men were 64 to 76 years old, according to ABC Milwaukee affiliate WISN-TV.

ABC News' Dominick Proto, Whitney Lloyd, Aaron Katersky, Max Golembo and Melissa Griffin contributed to this report.