Two people shot on Southern California freeway; gunman on loose
Two people shot on Southern California freeway; gunman on loose
Window of one of two vehicles in which people were shot on freeway in Rialto, California, east of L.A, on evening of March 14, 2017                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Last Updated Mar 15, 2017 2:07 AM EDT Police say someone randomly started firing at drivers on the 210 Freeway in Rialto, east of L.A., reports CBS Los Angeles . Two people were hit in two different vehicles. The gunman was at large late Tuesday. The shootings happened in the eastbound lanes at around 8 p.m. Window of one of two vehicles in which people were shot on freeway in Rialto, California, east of L.A, on evening of March 14, 2017 The freeway was temporarily shut down by the California Highway Patrol. A passenger in the rear of a car was hit in a leg when a bullet pierced the door, police say, and the driver of an SUV going the other way was hit in an arm by a bullet that went through the window. Both victims were taken to a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries. Both said the shooter was in a late model Chevy sedan. Officers say this was in man's pocket when he  was shot by freeway shooter @ 11p ch2 @Patharveynews  @CBSLA  pic.twitter.com/uQRaWPD2r9 His motive wasn’t known, but police said they don’t think the shootings were due to road rage or the beginning of a series of sniper incidents. Palm Springs Police posted a tweet urging motorists in the vicinity to be careful.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

RIALTO, Calif. -- Police say someone randomly started firing at drivers on the 210 Freeway in Rialto, east of L.A., reports CBS Los Angeles.

Two people were hit in two different vehicles.

The gunman was at large late Tuesday.

The shootings happened in the eastbound lanes at around 8 p.m.

CBS Los Angeles

The freeway was temporarily shut down by the California Highway Patrol.

A passenger in the rear of a car was hit in a leg when a bullet pierced the door, police say, and the driver of an SUV going the other way was hit in an arm by a bullet that went through the window.

Both victims were taken to a hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.

Both said the shooter was in a late model Chevy sedan.

Officers say this was in man's pocket when he was shot by freeway shooter @ 11p ch2 @Patharveynews @CBSLA pic.twitter.com/uQRaWPD2r9 — Crystal Cruz (@CrystalCruzCBS) March 15, 2017

His motive wasn’t known, but police said they don’t think the shootings were due to road rage or the beginning of a series of sniper incidents.

Palm Springs Police posted a tweet urging motorists in the vicinity to be careful.