Cheltenham Festival: Douvan can make it 14 wins in a row for Mullins

at Cheltenham    illie Mullins has broad shoulders and a long history of success to draw on in difficult moments, so one imagines he will be perfectly capable of shrugging off Tuesday’s setbacks and facing up to another day at the Cheltenham Festival . While his Tuesday horses may not have been good enough, he still has in his care the steeplechaser coveted by all other trainers, the mighty Douvan, who should justify short odds of 2-7 in the Queen Mother Champion Chase. Unbeaten in 13 since joining Mullins from France three years ago, Douvan is already the winner of two Grade One races at the Festival. A magnificent specimen, he looks made for fencing and it is two years since anything finished within five lengths of him. God’s Own could provide the strongest opposition but he was beaten eight lengths into fourth in this race last year. Fox Norton has failed to land a glove on Douvanin two previous attempts. The unbeaten Neon Wolf is naturally prominent in the betting but the ground may be drying out in a way that will not suit him and he could prove to be short of the necessary pace. might be the right alternative, bearing in mind how he stayed on into third place in the Champion Bumper last year. But for a late fall, he might be unbeaten over hurdles and he was last seen staying on dourly to land a Grade One over a shorter trip last month. The two market-leaders like to go off in front and could blow each other’s chance if they fight from an early stage. But travels so strongly he could get the lead to himself here, perhaps putting pressure on the brittle fencing of Might Bite in the process. Alpha Des Obeaux is a big danger on the form of his second place to Thistlecrack last year but he bled when pulled up at Christmas and has not been seen since. With Gordon Elliott in irresistible form, Tombstone is of obvious interest, but so too, at much bigger odds, is his stablemate . Progressive since joining Elliott a year ago, he produced a career best when scoring at Navan last time, travelling really smoothly, and has presumably been saved with this in mind. His second place at the Grand National meeting last year suggests he can cope well with a big field and 14-1 is very fair. Taquin Du Seuil makes each-way appeal at 20-1, being very unexposed over hurdles. He had an 8lb higher mark when landing a major handicap chase here in April. Cause Of Causes probably has the most ability in this field but these cross-country races do not always produce the kind of strong pace that suits this hold-up type and he was beaten a long way here in January. was second in that race, carrying a stone more than the winner, and should be able to add to his victory around here in December. Lots of these will be better than they have so far shown but there is an enormous upside to from the Nicky Henderson yard that has made a strong start to this Festival. He showed battling qualities on his British debut in January to give weight and a beating to a more experienced rival who has since won a Grade Two, with the rest 26 lengths behind. On that showing, his rating could be very lenient and there should be plenty more to come, with a subsequent wind operation likely to help. Dan Skelton may have unearthed a classy type for this in , well related and a very easy winner on his only British start in December. At 8-1, he is a fair alternative to the Mullins-trained favourite, Carter McKay, whose pace will be tested. Wednesday’s tips, by Chris Cook Bacardys Acapella Bourgeois Automated (nap) Douvan Cantlow Divin Bere (nb) Cause Toujours So Celebre Miss Oscarose Meribel Millie Zante Celtic Tune Beneagles Solomon Grey Feeltherhythm The Grey Warrior Mama Africa Poetic Queen Al Hawraa Inaam Spirit Of Zebedee Fiery Spice Clock Chimes Piazon Bibliotheca Vroom Viva Verglas Royal Holiday  Cheltenham Festival 2017   Cheltenham Festival   Cheltenham   Horse racing   Horse racing tips   features

Willie Mullins has broad shoulders and a long history of success to draw on in difficult moments, so one imagines he will be perfectly capable of shrugging off Tuesday’s setbacks and facing up to another day at the Cheltenham Festival. While his Tuesday horses may not have been good enough, he still has in his care the steeplechaser coveted by all other trainers, the mighty Douvan, who should justify short odds of 2-7 in the Queen Mother Champion Chase.

Michael O’Leary draws first blood in Cheltenham battle with Willie Mullins Read more

Unbeaten in 13 since joining Mullins from France three years ago, Douvan is already the winner of two Grade One races at the Festival. A magnificent specimen, he looks made for fencing and it is two years since anything finished within five lengths of him.

God’s Own could provide the strongest opposition but he was beaten eight lengths into fourth in this race last year. Fox Norton has failed to land a glove on Douvanin two previous attempts.

1.30 The unbeaten Neon Wolf is naturally prominent in the betting but the ground may be drying out in a way that will not suit him and he could prove to be short of the necessary pace. Bacardys might be the right alternative, bearing in mind how he stayed on into third place in the Champion Bumper last year. But for a late fall, he might be unbeaten over hurdles and he was last seen staying on dourly to land a Grade One over a shorter trip last month.

2.10 The two market-leaders like to go off in front and could blow each other’s chance if they fight from an early stage. But Acapella Bourgeois travels so strongly he could get the lead to himself here, perhaps putting pressure on the brittle fencing of Might Bite in the process. Alpha Des Obeaux is a big danger on the form of his second place to Thistlecrack last year but he bled when pulled up at Christmas and has not been seen since.

2.50 With Gordon Elliott in irresistible form, Tombstone is of obvious interest, but so too, at much bigger odds, is his stablemate Automated. Progressive since joining Elliott a year ago, he produced a career best when scoring at Navan last time, travelling really smoothly, and has presumably been saved with this in mind. His second place at the Grand National meeting last year suggests he can cope well with a big field and 14-1 is very fair. Taquin Du Seuil makes each-way appeal at 20-1, being very unexposed over hurdles. He had an 8lb higher mark when landing a major handicap chase here in April.

4.10 Cause Of Causes probably has the most ability in this field but these cross-country races do not always produce the kind of strong pace that suits this hold-up type and he was beaten a long way here in January. Cantlow was second in that race, carrying a stone more than the winner, and should be able to add to his victory around here in December.

4.50 Lots of these will be better than they have so far shown but there is an enormous upside to Divin Bere from the Nicky Henderson yard that has made a strong start to this Festival. He showed battling qualities on his British debut in January to give weight and a beating to a more experienced rival who has since won a Grade Two, with the rest 26 lengths behind. On that showing, his rating could be very lenient and there should be plenty more to come, with a subsequent wind operation likely to help.

5.30 Dan Skelton may have unearthed a classy type for this in Cause Toujours, well related and a very easy winner on his only British start in December. At 8-1, he is a fair alternative to the Mullins-trained favourite, Carter McKay, whose pace will be tested.

Wednesday’s tips, by Chris Cook

Cheltenham

1.30 Bacardys 2.10 Acapella Bourgeois 2.50 Automated (nap) 3.30 Douvan 4.10 Cantlow 4.50 Divin Bere (nb) 5.30 Cause Toujours

Huntingdon

1.45 So Celebre 2.25 Miss Oscarose 3.05 Meribel Millie 3.45 Zante 4.25 Celtic Tune 5.05 Beneagles 5.40 Solomon Grey

Newcastle

5.50 Feeltherhythm 6.20 The Grey Warrior 6.50 Mama Africa 7.20 Poetic Queen 7.50 Al Hawraa 8.20 Inaam 8.50 Spirit Of Zebedee

Southwell

1.20 Fiery Spice 1.55 Clock Chimes 2.35 Piazon 3.15 Bibliotheca 3.55 Vroom 4.35 Viva Verglas 5.15 Royal Holiday