Daniel Kaluuya: 'In Britain I’m too black, in America I'm not black enough'
Daniel Kaluuya: 'In Britain I’m too black, in America I'm not black enough'
ritish actor Daniel Kaluuya has discussed his thoughts on Samuel L Jackson's comments on black British actors in a new interview with GQ . Speaking to radio station Hot 97 earlier this month, Jackson argued that Hollywood should stop casting black British actors in American roles they cannot fully understand - singling out comedy horror Get Out, in which Kaluuya stars, as a case in point. "I think it's great that movie's doing everything it's doing and people are loving it," Jackson said "But I know the young brother who's in the movie, and he's British. There are a lot of black British actors who work here all the time. "I tend to wonder what would that movie would have been with an American brother who really understands it, in a way." sked about the actor's comments and the ensuing media furore, Kaluuya said: "Big up Samuel L. Jackson, because here's a guy who has broken down doors. He has done a lot so that we can do what we can do. "Here's the thing about that critique, though. I'm dark-skinned, bro. When I'm around I'm made to feel 'other' because I'm dark-skinned. "I've had to wrestle with that, with people going 'You're too black.' Then I come to America and they say, 'You're not black enough.' I go to Uganda, I can't speak the language. In India, I'm black. In the black community, I'm dark-skinned. In America, I'm British. Bro!" aluuya rose to fame in the UK following memorable performances in teen dramas Skins and The Fades, and in comedy series Psychoville and Ruddy Hell, It's Harry and Paul. ighlighting the oppression that black communities have experienced in the UK, Kaluuya told GQ he is frustrated at the way the black British experience is misunderstood and misrepresented. n his casting in Get Out, he adds: "In order to prove that I can play this role, I have to open up about the trauma that I've experienced as a black person. I have to show off my struggle so that people accept that I'm black. "No matter that every single room I go to I'm usually the darkest person there. You know what I'm saying? I kind of resent that mentality. I'm just an individual ... Just because you're black, you get taken and used to represent something. It mirrors what happens in the film. "I resent that I have to prove that I'm black. I don't know what that is. I'm still processing it."

British actor Daniel Kaluuya has discussed his thoughts on Samuel L Jackson's comments on black British actors in a new interview with GQ.

Speaking to radio station Hot 97 earlier this month, Jackson argued that Hollywood should stop casting black British actors in American roles they cannot fully understand - singling out comedy horror Get Out, in which Kaluuya stars, as a case in point.

"I think it's great that movie's doing everything it's doing and people are loving it," Jackson said

"But I know the young brother who's in the movie, and he's British. There are a lot of black British actors who work here all the time.