Jeremy Corbyn gives 'single worst performance in PMQs history' after failing to challenge National Insurance U-turn
Jeremy Corbyn gives 'single worst performance in PMQs history' after failing to challenge National Insurance U-turn
any thought PMQs would be a bloodbath, with Labour landing most of the punches, after Philip Hammond and Theresa May were forced to perform a U-turn over the disastrous National Insurance hike policy minutes before the weekly session started. However, they forgot one thing: that Jeremy Corbyn is the Leader of the Opposition. People across the political spectrum expressed their disbelief and anger as he failed to challenge the Prime Minister over the NICs U-turn. this is the entirety of Corbyn’s first #PMQs question on the NICs U-turn. It’s... just not a question. pic.twitter.com/wshZAQjYyO he Telegraph's Christopher Hope wrote: Theresa May is getting off the hook and she knows it. Tory MPs are cockahoop. A compete abrogation of the duty of the Leader of the Opposition. Not since the Westland affair has a Labour leader failed to push home an advantage at PMQs. The Neil Kinnock messed up the Labour response after Heseltine walked out of the Cabinet and resigned. Many online were angered after the Labour leader moved on from NICs after a light questioning and started to speak instead about schools. Bleak pic.twitter.com/SlI0rbxA9v the single worst performance in the history of PMQs It's official. Jeremy Corbyn is actually a Tory mole. It's the only explanation for this total shambles. The country deserves better #PMQs Sigh. It is days like this we wish @jeremycorbyn would let us have his questions. He clearly doesn't want them. We have a proper government U-turn on our hands and Jeremy Corbyn utterly fails to land a single blow. Terrible, terrible, terrible #PMQs  pic.twitter.com/KxZTsEveMs ony Blair's former spin doctor Alastair Campbell tweeted: "Unless the Corbyn team actually planned for that to be a car crash the inquest should be long, hard and honest. He just can't do it.' Many pointed out Yvette Cooper was doing the real work for the opposition as she savaged Theresa May over the Budget U-turn. 2017 £2bn u-turn in a week. 2016 £4bn PIP u-turn in 5 days. No wonder they're abolishing Spring Budgets, they keep ripping them up pic.twitter.com/ZPrmdjCbE8 ike Gapes MP hinted at his thoughts about the leadership, tweeting: "Great question by pity she couldn't have had six today." Yvette Cooper trolling the PM on the Budget. #pmqs  pic.twitter.com/m3vIjGilZg Many others said they wished she was the Leader of the Opposition and that she had asked a good question. Yvette Cooper. There is a grown up in the room. The sharp and witty question from @YvetteCooperMP about the budget u-turn proving who should have been leader of @UKLabour  #PMQs Can we have a proper Coup this time with Yvette Cooper at the forefront? #YvetteCOUPer he said: "The PM’s just done a £2bn budget U-turn in the space of a week; last year the Government did a £4bn U-turn in the space of five days. Is that why they want to abolish spring Budgets? "Because they just keep ripping them up?"

Many thought PMQs would be a bloodbath, with Labour landing most of the punches, after Philip Hammond and Theresa May were forced to perform a U-turn over the disastrous National Insurance hike policy minutes before the weekly session started.

However, they forgot one thing: that Jeremy Corbyn is the Leader of the Opposition.

People across the political spectrum expressed their disbelief and anger as he failed to challenge the Prime Minister over the NICs U-turn.