Kelsea Ballerini, Alessia Cara & Jordan Fisher to Perform at 2017 Radio Disney Music Awards: Exclusive
Kelsea Ballerini, Alessia Cara & Jordan Fisher to Perform at 2017 Radio Disney Music Awards: Exclusive
Kelsea Ballerini, Alessia Cara & Jordan Fisher to Perform at 2017 Radio Disney Music Awards: Exclusive  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Kelsea Ballerini , Alessia Cara and Jordan Fisher will perform at this year's Radio Disney Music Awards (RDMA) on April 29 at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, is exclusively announcing.Â It is a homecoming of sorts for the three performers, all of whom are alumni of Radio Disney's Next Big Thing program that champions young artists. As well, Ballerini and Fisher are two of five hosts named for the award show.Â All three are also nominees: Ballerini is nominated in four RDMA categories, including country favorite artist and country favorite song; Cara is nominated for the breakout artist of the year award; and Hamilton star and Hollywood Records recording artist Fisher is nominated in the best new artist category.Â  Voting for the 2017 RDMA is open now and runs through April 9 at Disney.com/RDMA , the Radio Disney and Disney Channel apps, Google OneBox and via Radio Disney's Facebook and Twitter. Tickets for the RDMA are on sale now at AXS.com/RDMA . Winners will be presented April 30 during a two-hour telecast starting at 7 p.m. EST in the U.S. airing across Disney platforms.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Kelsea Ballerini, Alessia Cara and Jordan Fisher will perform at this year's Radio Disney Music Awards (RDMA) on April 29 at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, Billboard is exclusively announcing.Â

It is a homecoming of sorts for the three performers, all of whom are alumni of Radio Disney's Next Big Thing program that champions young artists. As well, Ballerini and Fisher are two of five hosts named for the award show.Â

All three are also nominees: Ballerini is nominated in four RDMA categories, including country favorite artist and country favorite song; Cara is nominated for the breakout artist of the year award; and Hamilton star and Hollywood Records recording artist Fisher is nominated in the best new artist category.Â

Voting for the 2017 RDMA is open now and runs through April 9 at Disney.com/RDMA, the Radio Disney and Disney Channel apps, Google OneBox and via Radio Disney's Facebook and Twitter. Tickets for the RDMA are on sale now at AXS.com/RDMA. Winners will be presented April 30 during a two-hour telecast starting at 7 p.m. EST in the U.S. airing across Disney platforms.Â