‘Princess’ Paris Jackson says her dad Michael treated her like royalty
‘Princess’ Paris Jackson says her dad Michael treated her like royalty
Paris Jackson has opened up about her famous family once more – this time she has given us an exclusive insight into her precious relationship with late father Michael Jackson, explaining how he saw her as his “princess.” Paris was 11 at the time of her father’s passing, which made it even more difficult for the now 18-year-old to cope with the sudden loss, but today she honours his legacy by continuing to share details about their time together. In a candid new interview, the King of Pop’s only daughter has revealed that her father treated her like royalty when he was alive because, in his eyes, she was “perfect.” Speaking in the April issue of Harper’s Bazaar magazine, the budding model – who is sister to Prince, 20, and Blanket, 15 – explained: “When I was a kid, I was with my dad and my two brothers. Growing up, I was treated as the favourite because I was the only girl. I was the princess; I was perfect in my dad’s eyes.” Michael – who tragically passed away in 2009 aged 50 – was fiercely protective of his children, often covering their faces with masks and veils to shield their identity while out in public. But these days Paris is very much in the spotlight, with modelling contracts and endorsement deals, as well as an upcoming role on Fox TV drama series Star , which will see her play a social media guru. “Plenty of times I’ve thought about not doing anything in the public eye and having my own private life,” she told the publication. “Then I started seeing how everything in the world is going. And I feel like each year it’s getting worse… I know there are a lot of people who would feel very blessed to be in my position, so I want to use it for important things.” The aspiring actress previously claimed that the late Thriller hitmaker was responsible for “99 percent” of the inspiration in her life. She said: “All of my inspiration. I would say 99 percent of my inspiration comes from him, because he has always been my world. He is my roots.” The teenage star also said she hopes to have the “strength” her father did. When asked which one of her dad’s qualities she’d like to have, she added: “Definitely his strength. He was the strongest person I know and tried to do everything with a much love and kindness as possible.”

Paris Jackson has opened up about her famous family once more – this time she has given us an exclusive insight into her precious relationship with late father Michael Jackson, explaining how he saw her as his “princess.”

View photos If the crown fits: Paris Jackson says her father, Michael, saw her as his ‘princess’ (Copyright: Yui Mok/PA Wire/Jim Smeal/REX/Shutterstock) More

Paris was 11 at the time of her father’s passing, which made it even more difficult for the now 18-year-old to cope with the sudden loss, but today she honours his legacy by continuing to share details about their time together.

In a candid new interview, the King of Pop’s only daughter has revealed that her father treated her like royalty when he was alive because, in his eyes, she was “perfect.”

View photos As Michael’s only daughter, Paris says she was treated as the favourite (Copyright: Tim Ireland/PA Archive/PA Images) More

Speaking in the April issue of Harper’s Bazaar magazine, the budding model – who is sister to Prince, 20, and Blanket, 15 – explained: “When I was a kid, I was with my dad and my two brothers. Growing up, I was treated as the favourite because I was the only girl. I was the princess; I was perfect in my dad’s eyes.”

Michael – who tragically passed away in 2009 aged 50 – was fiercely protective of his children, often covering their faces with masks and veils to shield their identity while out in public.

But these days Paris is very much in the spotlight, with modelling contracts and endorsement deals, as well as an upcoming role on Fox TV drama series Star, which will see her play a social media guru.

View photos The aspiring actress was only 11 years old when her dad tragically passed away (Copyright: Swan Gallet/WWD/REX/Shutterstock) More

“Plenty of times I’ve thought about not doing anything in the public eye and having my own private life,” she told the publication.

“Then I started seeing how everything in the world is going. And I feel like each year it’s getting worse… I know there are a lot of people who would feel very blessed to be in my position, so I want to use it for important things.”

The aspiring actress previously claimed that the late Thriller hitmaker was responsible for “99 percent” of the inspiration in her life.

View photos Paris has more than 50 tattoos, nine that are specifically dedicated to the late music icon (Copyright: Instagram/Paris Jackson) More

She said: “All of my inspiration. I would say 99 percent of my inspiration comes from him, because he has always been my world. He is my roots.”

The teenage star also said she hopes to have the “strength” her father did.

When asked which one of her dad’s qualities she’d like to have, she added: “Definitely his strength. He was the strongest person I know and tried to do everything with a much love and kindness as possible.”

The full interview can be seen in the latest issue of Harper’s Bazaar, which is out now.

Follow us on Twitter and Instagram for all of the latest celebrity gossip.

Read more:

US talk show host Wendy Williams slams Paris Jackson’s Rolling Stone interview

Conrad Murray wants to help Paris Jackson solve singer Michael’s ‘murder’