Europe braced for NEXIT
Europe braced for NEXIT


Millions of Dutch voters are going to the polls today in key elections overshadowed by a blazing diplomatic row with Turkey and all eyes on the anti-Islam MP Geert Wilders.

Following last year's Brexit vote, and Donald Trump's victory in the US presidential polls, the Dutch general elections are being viewed as a test of strength of far-right parties ahead of other ballots in Europe this year.

Amid the tussle between outgoing prime minister Mark Rutte and his far-right rival Wilders, many of the 12.9 million eligible voters were still hesitating between the 28 parties in the running.

Firebrand leader Geert Wilders of the Freedom Party (PVV) casts his ballot for Dutch general elections

Firebrand anti-Islam lawmaker Geert Wilders prepares to cast his vote for the Dutch general election in The Hague, Netherlands

Wilders' one-page election manifesto includes pledges to close borders to immigrants from Muslim nations, shuttering mosques and banning the Koran

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has framed the election as a choice between continuity and chaos, portraying himself as a safe custodian of the nation's economic recovery

Most polling stations opened at 6.30am, although a few such as at Eindhoven airport were allowed to open earlier.

Polling booths set up in schools, town halls as well as shops, bowling alleys and swimming pools will close at 8am with exit polls expected shortly after.

In a final debate late on Tuesday, Rutte said: 'When people look for leadership, they look to me.'

The leader of the Liberal VVD party is bidding for a third term as premier of the country of 17 million people - one of the largest economies in the eurozone and a founding father of the European Union.

The Dutch government blocked the Turkish rallies, citing 'risks to public order and security'

Final polls appeared to show Rutte pulling away from Wilders, crediting the VVD with coming top with 24 to 28 seats. However that is well down on its 40 seats in the outgoing parliament.

Wilders was seen as slipping, barely clinging on to second place with between 19 and 22 MPs - but still up on the 12 MPs his Freedom Party (PVV) had before.

Wilders' one-page election manifesto includes pledges to close borders to immigrants from Muslim nations, shuttering mosques and banning the Koran, as well as taking the Netherlands out of the European Union, in a so-called 'Nexit'.

'Netherlands does not belong to all. Do you hear me? The Netherlands belongs to the Dutch,' Wilders said in Tuesday's debate.

Close behind Wilders in the polls are long-standing Dutch parties such as the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA), credited with 19 to 21 seats, and the Democracy Party (D66) with around 17 to 19 MPs.

Both the CDA and D66 would be natural coalition partners for Rutte, who like most Dutch parties, has refused to work with Wilders.

On Monday, Rutte said: 'I will not work with such a party, Mr Wilders, not in a cabinet nor with you supporting from outside. Not, never, not.'

Commuters line up at a voting booth to vote in Dutch general elections at Central Station

People line up to vote for the Dutch general election at a polling station in The Hague today

Rutte and his government officially resigned late last night ahead of today's vote.

Seeking to mark his differences with the fiery Wilders, Rutte has been promoting the country's economic growth and stability during his six years at the helm.

He was also widely credited in his own country with his handling of the Turkish issue this week when he barred two Turkish ministers from addressing a pro-Ankara rally in Rotterdam.

In retaliation, Turkey accused the Dutch of 'Nazi' tactics, barred the Dutch ambassador from returning to Ankara, and suspended high-level relations with the Hague in a raft of diplomatic sanctions.

Wilders is tapping into discontent among voters who say they are not benefiting from economic recovery

RUTTE SAYS BREXIT PUTS BRITAIN IN DEEP TROUBLE Mark Rutte said last night that Brexit could cause 'potentially irreparable harm' for the UK. He said Britain's economic growth had remained strong since last year's Brexit vote only because the pound had sunk. He warned: 'If you look below the surface, the English economy suffers potentially irreparable harm because of their Brexit.' Rutte said the Brexit vote had already led to a 'tectonic shift' within the international banking community that still had London as one of its biggest global hubs. He said American banks were seeking to leave the City of London and have shown a keen interest in Amsterdam as a new hub. He also said Britain could struggle to negotiate a favourable deal, saying 'I don't see right away how they can negotiate a deal with Europe in the future. It will never be as good as what they have now.'

Early voters at the polls gave their verdicts today.

Wendy de Graaf, who was dropping off her kids at school in The Hague, said: 'I am voting for Wilders. I hope he can make a change to make the Netherlands better.

'I don't agree with everything he says...but I feel that immigration is a problem.'

Alexander van der Hooft, who was the first person to cast his ballot at the Wolters School in The Hague, said: 'I am hoping for a strong centre coalition. But I'm afraid it's going to be very fragmented and difficult to form a government.'

The Dutch pride themselves on their consensus politics, and it reportedly takes an average of three months to bring together a coalition.

Observers predict this time round however, four or even five parties may be needed to reach the 76-seat majority and it could take as long as six to seven months to form the coalition.

The leader of the Labour Party, Rutte's coalition partner in the outgoing government, hit out at Wilders in some of the fiercest exchanges late Tuesday.

Labour leader Lodewijk Asscher said: 'You've been a member of parliament for 20 years. You've sent thousands of angry tweets, but you have provided zero solutions. You weaken and divide The Netherlands.'

While traditional Labour appears to be sinking this year, the left-wing GroenLinks and its charismatic young leader Jesse Klaver are enjoying a huge boost. His party could win 16 to 18 seats.

Following the vote in the Netherlands, the French go to the polls next month with far-right candidate Marine Le Pen currently in second place behind centrist Emmanuel Macron.

In September, right-wing eurosceptic party Alternative for Germany, which has attacked Chancellor Angela Merkel's open-door refugee policy, is likely to win its first lower house seats.