This Is How Virat Kohli Won Michael Clarke's Heart By Attending Phil Hughes' Funeral
How Virat Kohli Won Michael Clarke's Heart By Attending Phil Hughes' Funeral
This Is How Virat Kohli Won Michael Clarke's Heart By Attending Phil Hughes' Funeral Even as India and Australia engage in battle on the field, former Aussie skipper He recalls how of Phil Hughes who died after being struck by a bouncer in a domestic game. This happened just before India's 2014-15 tour to Australia. "The way Virat handled that situation, he came for the funeral and had some of the Indian players too. I have utmost respect for him because of that," he said while speaking at the launch of his autobiography titled "My Story" in Kolkata. He also recalled how the first Test was postponed from December 4 to December 9 in Adelaide. "This is clearly above the game of cricket and they didn't need to postpone the game. They could not have turned up for the funeral. They didn't have to do anything that they did. I will always remember that," Clarke said. While Virat Kohli has been getting some flak from the Aussie media and former Australian cricketers about his aggressive tactics, this man from Down Under has nothing but respect for the Indian captain. It clearly shows that the game is ultimately played by human beings and players are just people like us. A life lost is a life lost regardless which team you play for.

Even as India and Australia engage in battle on the field, former Aussie skipper Michael Clarke has words of praise for Virat Kohli.

AFP

He recalls how Kohli had come for the funeral of Phil Hughes who died after being struck by a bouncer in a domestic game. This happened just before India's 2014-15 tour to Australia.

"The way Virat handled that situation, he came for the funeral and had some of the Indian players too. I have utmost respect for him because of that," he said while speaking at the launch of his autobiography titled "My Story" in Kolkata.

AFP

He also recalled how the first Test was postponed from December 4 to December 9 in Adelaide.

"This is clearly above the game of cricket and they didn't need to postpone the game. They could not have turned up for the funeral. They didn't have to do anything that they did. I will always remember that," Clarke said.

AFP

While Virat Kohli has been getting some flak from the Aussie media and former Australian cricketers about his aggressive tactics, this man from Down Under has nothing but respect for the Indian captain.

It clearly shows that the game is ultimately played by human beings and players are just people like us. A life lost is a life lost regardless which team you play for.

Don't Miss 14.8 K SHARES 14.2 K SHARES 13.2 K SHARES