Someone Keeps Stashing Bottles Of Steak Sauce Around An Ohio Library
Someone Keeps Stashing Bottles Of Sauce Around This Library
Staff at the Avon Lake Public Library in Ohio are scratching their heads as to who keeps planting empty A.1. sauce bottles around the building, and for what reason. ” We mapped the first 12 to see if we could find a pattern , but we couldn’t find a discernible pattern,” the library’s page supervisor, Dan Cotton, told The Chronicle-Telegram. Jill Ralston, the library’s public relations coordinator, doubted any bad-natured intent on the part of the anonymous prankster. Staff have suggested that the bottles’ baffling appearance could be linked to the geocache located just outside the library. Facebook users, meanwhile, have advanced their own ideas ― putting forward “dragon magic,” a restaurant industry book worm or a fan as being responsible for the stunt. As of Tuesday, the mystery remained unsolved . The Huffington Post has reached out for an update. 'The mystery of the A-1 bottles': Not a new title, but a real whodunit at the Avon Lake LIbrary https://t.co/IqtyaAid7a by @BradDickenCT  pic.twitter.com/USdGWdMELG Related Coverage  Heavy Rain Floods University's Library Canteen In Just 2 Minutes   Overdue Library Book Returned After 120 Years   Adorable Kid Returns Library Book With An Apology Note  ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

It’s a mouth-watering mystery.

Staff at the Avon Lake Public Library in Ohio are scratching their heads as to who keeps planting empty A.1. sauce bottles around the building, and for what reason.

Since January, employees have found 30 of the 10-ounce containers hidden on shelves, among newspapers and magazines. All were clean with “just a hint of the sauce odor inside,” the library revealed in a Facebook post.

”We mapped the first 12 to see if we could find a pattern, but we couldn’t find a discernible pattern,” the library’s page supervisor, Dan Cotton, told The Chronicle-Telegram.

Jill Ralston, the library’s public relations coordinator, doubted any bad-natured intent on the part of the anonymous prankster.

Staff have suggested that the bottles’ baffling appearance could be linked to the geocache located just outside the library.

Facebook users, meanwhile, have advanced their own ideas ― putting forward “dragon magic,” a restaurant industry book worm or a fan as being responsible for the stunt.

As of Tuesday, the mystery remained unsolved. The Huffington Post has reached out for an update.