This 27-Year-Old Founder Quit Wall Street To Bring Solar Power To The World
This 27-Year-Old Founder Quit Wall Street To Bring Solar Power To The World
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  MeiMei Fox       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. McDavid with one of her candles. (Photo by Meng Johnson) “I literally love what I do so much that it doesn’t feel like work. There’s nothing like embarking on a career path focused on making a positive difference in the lives of others,” says 27-year-old Sterling McDavid, founder of The Starling Project , which launched this year. The Starling Project is a charitable company that sells home candles in order to provide solar energy to under-resourced communities. McDavid explained. In the past year, The Starling Project has donated $100,000 to UNICEF, which has provided solar energy to people in Chad, Africa. “Solar energy provides so much more than light,” McDavid said. “It can also provide clean running water by powering pipes and greatly improve a community's overall quality of life.” While making a difference across the globe, Starling Project candles also support the U.S. economy. The soy-based candles are hand-poured in Brooklyn and feature American handmade glass and a cotton wick. The essential oils found within the candles are all-natural. The Starling Project is committed to only working with ethical suppliers, ensuring that their partners do not support human trafficking, child labor, or abusive labor practices. McDavid on a UNICEF visit to Rwanda. (Photo courtesy of The Starling Project) McDavid says that while she always has had a passion for philanthropy, it was travel to less developed countries such as Vietnam, Rwanda, and Jamaica as the National Development Chair of the UNICEF Next Generation Steering Committee that truly opened her eyes to the harsh problems people can face in everyday life. She was working as a financial analyst at Goldman Sachs at the time of her first field visit to Vietnam, but seeing the impact that just a single solar panel could make on a rural community inspired McDavid to leave her career in finance in order to focus on creating a product line that could help people access electrical power and/or running water. “I've always had an entrepreneurial spirit,” McDavid said. “My parents are both entrepreneurs, which has forever instilled in me a desire to have a strong work ethic and build something of my very own. I'm thrilled to be following in their footsteps.” Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

“I literally love what I do so much that it doesn’t feel like work. There’s nothing like embarking on a career path focused on making a positive difference in the lives of others,” says 27-year-old Sterling McDavid, founder of The Starling Project, which launched this year.

The Starling Project is a charitable company that sells home candles in order to provide solar energy to under-resourced communities. “Our candles not only light the homes of their users but also the world,” McDavid explained.

In the past year, The Starling Project has donated $100,000 to UNICEF, which has provided solar energy to people in Chad, Africa. “Solar energy provides so much more than light,” McDavid said. “It can also provide clean running water by powering pipes and greatly improve a community's overall quality of life.”

While making a difference across the globe, Starling Project candles also support the U.S. economy. The soy-based candles are hand-poured in Brooklyn and feature American handmade glass and a cotton wick. The essential oils found within the candles are all-natural. The Starling Project is committed to only working with ethical suppliers, ensuring that their partners do not support human trafficking, child labor, or abusive labor practices.

McDavid says that while she always has had a passion for philanthropy, it was travel to less developed countries such as Vietnam, Rwanda, and Jamaica as the National Development Chair of the UNICEF Next Generation Steering Committee that truly opened her eyes to the harsh problems people can face in everyday life. She was working as a financial analyst at Goldman Sachs at the time of her first field visit to Vietnam, but seeing the impact that just a single solar panel could make on a rural community inspired McDavid to leave her career in finance in order to focus on creating a product line that could help people access electrical power and/or running water.

“I've always had an entrepreneurial spirit,” McDavid said. “My parents are both entrepreneurs, which has forever instilled in me a desire to have a strong work ethic and build something of my very own. I'm thrilled to be following in their footsteps.”