Mystery Philanthropist Donates Cooler Full of Weed to Local Goodwill
Mystery Philanthropist Donates Cooler Full of Weed to Local Goodwill
A Goodwill in Washington state recently received a donation more desirable than the usual mounds of used clothes and chipped Looney Tunes coffee mugs. An unidentified person of unparalleled generosity dropped off nearly four pounds of marijuana at a Goodwill location in Monroe over the weekend,  reported Tuesday. "This cooler was donated over the weekend to the Goodwill," Monroe police said in a tweet Tuesday afternoon. "Employees were surprised when they opened the lid." You know who else looks surprised? The dude in this picture: This cooler was donated over the weekend to the Goodwill. Employees surprised when they opened the lid. Police were called... pic.twitter.com/50z1OinsER According to the cops, the big weed donation boast an "estimated street value" of $24,000 but, I don't know, the weed here looks like it isn't of the highest quality? The Goodwill store is said to be looking over surveillance footage in an attempt to identify the donor. Whether you get your weed at your local Goodwill or from a proper dispensary, here's something to ponder for future weed hangs: Take it via butt to feel it. Dr. Mikhail Kogan, medical director at the Center for Integrative Medicine at George Washington University, told the earlier this month that he feels smoking is now an "archaic" method. "Rectally is actually a lot more preferred because of the volume of absorption," Kogan told the during a discussion on Canada's recent moves toward more weed tolerance. "You can put a lot more and it gets absorbed a lot better, but not everybody is open to this way of administration."

A Goodwill in Washington state recently received a donation much more desirable than the usual mounds of used clothes and chipped Looney Tunes coffee mugs. An unidentified person of unparalleled generosity dropped off nearly four pounds of marijuana at a Goodwill location in Monroe over the weekend, Q13 Fox News reported Tuesday.

"This cooler was donated over the weekend to the Goodwill," Monroe police said in a tweet Tuesday afternoon. "Employees were surprised when they opened the lid." You know who else looks surprised? The dude in this picture:

This cooler was donated over the weekend to the Goodwill. Employees surprised when they opened the lid. Police were called... pic.twitter.com/50z1OinsER — Monroe PD (@MonroePolice) March 14, 2017

According to the cops, the big weed donation boast an "estimated street value" of $24,000 but, I don't know, the weed here kinda looks like it isn't of the highest quality?

The Goodwill store is said to be looking over surveillance footage in an attempt to identify the donor.

Whether you get your weed at your local Goodwill or from a proper dispensary, here's something to ponder for future weed hangs: Take it via butt to really feel it. Dr. Mikhail Kogan, medical director at the Center for Integrative Medicine at George Washington University, told the National Post earlier this month that he feels smoking is now an "archaic" method.

"Rectally is actually a lot more preferred because of the volume of absorption," Kogan told the Post during a discussion on Canada's recent moves toward more weed tolerance. "You can put a lot more and it gets absorbed a lot better, but not everybody is open to this way of administration."