BBC Dad Robert E. Kelly Gives Another Interview to the BBC
BBC Dad Robert E. Kelly Gives Another Interview to the BBC
Professor Robert E. Kelly, who has been something of a celebrity recently, after a video of his kids and wife interrupting his live BBC interview went viral, returned to the BBC to talk about his newfound fame, and this time his wife, Jung-a Kim, and kids, Marion and James, joined in from the start. The family was asked about the Internet’s collective initial assumption that Jung-a was Kelly’s nanny, not his wife. Kelly said, “We were pretty uncomfortable with it,” and his wife said that she’d like people to watch the video and enjoy it, and stop arguing. Kelly also answered the pressing question about whether or not he was wearing pants during that first interview. • “Bates Motel” Postmortem: Star Max Thieriot on Directing Those Pivotal Norman Moments • “The Bachelor” Recap: A Bachelor No More Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram — or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter .

Professor Robert E. Kelly, who has been something of a celebrity recently, after a video of his kids and wife interrupting his live BBC interview went viral, returned to the BBC to talk about his newfound fame, and this time his wife, Jung-a Kim, and kids, Marion and James, joined in from the start.

The family was asked about the Internet’s collective initial assumption that Jung-a was Kelly’s nanny, not his wife. Kelly said, “We were pretty uncomfortable with it,” and his wife said that she’d like people to watch the video and enjoy it, and stop arguing. Kelly also answered the pressing question about whether or not he was wearing pants during that first interview.

Watch: Adorable girl talks to Steve Harvey about Miss Universe debacle:



Read more from Yahoo TV

• “Bates Motel” Postmortem: Star Max Thieriot on Directing Those Pivotal Norman Moments

• “The Bachelor” Recap: A Bachelor No More

Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram — or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter.