WorldStarHipHop Founder Lee “Q” O’Denat's Cause of Death Revealed
WorldStarHipHop Founder Lee “Q” O’Denat's Cause of Death Revealed
Authorities have confirmed that Lee “Q” O’Denat died of natural causes. According to the , the medical examiner’s officer revealed obesity and severe buildup of plaque near his heart contributed to the WorldStarHipHop founder’s death. Investigators also discovered the 345-pound man had an enlarged liver as well as fatty liver disease. Though tests confirmed marijuana use, no other drugs or alcohol were found in his system. O’Denat, known in the industry as “Q,” died unexpectedly on Jan. 23, 2017 at a massage parlor in San Diego. After completing a 30-minute massage, a masseuse left the room to give O’Denat some time to change. When she returned minutes later, she found the 43-year-old slumped against a wall, unresponsive. According to the , paramedics arrived at the parlor and performed CPR in an attempt to revive O’Denat; however, he was later pronounced dead at the scene. His untimely death was a huge blow to the hip-hop world . Fans as well as many artists—inlcuding DJ Khaled, T.I., 2 Chainz, and Juicy J— expressed their condolences on social media.

Authorities have confirmed that Lee “Q” O’Denat died of natural causes.

According to the Los Angeles Times, the medical examiner’s officer revealed obesity and severe buildup of plaque near his heart contributed to the WorldStarHipHop founder’s death. Investigators also discovered the 345-pound man had an enlarged liver as well as fatty liver disease. Though tests confirmed marijuana use, no other drugs or alcohol were found in his system.

O’Denat, known in the industry as “Q,” died unexpectedly on Jan. 23, 2017 at a massage parlor in San Diego. After completing a 30-minute massage, a masseuse left the room to give O’Denat some time to change. When she returned minutes later, she found the 43-year-old slumped against a wall, unresponsive.

According to the L.A. Times, paramedics arrived at the parlor and performed CPR in an attempt to revive O’Denat; however, he was later pronounced dead at the scene.

His untimely death was a huge blow to the hip-hop world. Fans as well as many artists—inlcuding DJ Khaled, T.I., 2 Chainz, and Juicy J—expressed their condolences on social media.