If Trump Weakens Fuel Economy Standards, American Innovation Will Be The Price
If Trump Weakens Fuel Economy Standards, American Innovation Will Be The Price
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Joann Muller       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. US President Donald Trump delivers remarks to auto workers at American Center for Mobility in Ypsilanti, Michigan on March 15, 2017. NICHOLAS KAMM/AFP/Getty Images In keeping with his promise to roll back regulations that choke business growth, President Donald Trump sent a strong signal today that he's inclined to give automakers some relief from fuel economy and emissions mandates, which require them to achieve a fleetwide average 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. After meeting with industry leaders at a future test site for self-driving cars near Detroit, Trump said he would reverse a decision by the Obama Administration in January to lock in those stricter mandates through 2025, saying the rules “would have destroyed, or further destroyed, the auto industry.” But he expects something in return. “You need to come back and give us big numbers in terms of jobs,” Trump told the chief executive officers of General Motors, Ford Motor and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. He also promised an audience of several thousand auto workers that there will be "a very big announcement next week concerning your industry." Automakers have argued that the 2025 fuel economy targets will be difficult to meet without a big increase in electric and hybrid cars, something consumers aren't buying now because gas prices are low. Under Obama, the EPA concluded that auto makers could meet the standards with existing technologies, and that the rules would cut oil consumption and greenhouse-gas emissions, while saving consumers $92 billion at the fuel pump. Mitch Bainwol, head of an industry lobbying group, said in a letter to Trump's new EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt, that complying with the current standards would cost the industry $200 billion. An industry-funded report from Indiana University last week also said the mandates would hike vehicle prices and threaten up to 600,000 jobs. Consumer and environmental groups, meanwhile, complain that rolling back the standards would hurt consumers, especially low-income ones, by making them pay more at the pump. While the debate rages, there is one risk that many are forgetting. If the U.S. relaxes the standards, automakers could quickly get lapped by more innovative global players. "You don’t want to put anybody out of business, but you have to keep the pressure up, or they’ll keep doing things the way they’ve always done for as long as they can," said Christie Todd Whitman, who served as EPA chief under the Bush Administration. Keeping companies' feet to the fire, Whitman said in an interview, will force them to break through what might seem like insurmountable technological challenges. She's speaking from experience: during the Bush Administration, Whitman managed to get diesel engine manufacturers to sign on to drastically cleaner emissions standards. "When we did the diesel rule, I was told time after time that I was killing an industry" and that no company could make a diesel engine clean enough for what we wanted to do, Whitman said. "But I got one engine manufacturer who said, 'Yes, we can do it,' and after that, it was easy. We did it and the regulation is now in place, and diesel emissions have been reduced by over 95 percent." That engine company was Cummins, based in Columbus, Ind., which decided in the early 2000s that rather than fight environmental challenges, it would turn them into a business opportunity. The company focused its strategy on developing advanced medium- and heavy-duty engines that would reduce its customers' fuel costs and help them become environmental stewards. The strategy has paid off in spades. Cummins became a technology leader, consistently beating the new emissions standards years ahead of time, which helped fuel growth around the world. When countries like China and India began considering tougher emissions regulations, Cummins’ technical leadership became a key advantage. "As we got better and better at these products, we were able to take them around the world and grow our business," Chief Executive Tom Linebarger told me in a 2014 interview. Today, Cummins has a broad range of diesel and natural gas engines that can meet emissions standards anywhere in the world. The key, according to Linebarger, was partnering with government regulators to help create standards that are enforceable and achievable. That's exactly the approach that Whitman endorses now. "We can have a thriving economy and a clean environment. It's proven," she said. "Everybody wants clean air. Everybody wants clear water," she said. "The important thing is getting everyone at the table -- the environmentalists, the engine manufacturers, the auto industry, the EPA scientists and the OMB," she said, referring to the Office of Management and Budget, which weighs the costs of legislation. Sounds like an opportunity for the president who bills himself as the master deal-maker. By reopening the so-called mid-term review of fuel economy mandates, Trump is essentially giving the parties another year to debate the rules. Before Obama locked in the targets, the review process hadn't been expected to be completed until April 2018.  Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

In keeping with his promise to roll back regulations that choke business growth, President Donald Trump sent a strong signal today that he's inclined to give automakers some relief from fuel economy and emissions mandates, which require them to achieve a fleetwide average 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025.

After meeting with industry leaders at a future test site for self-driving cars near Detroit, Trump said he would reverse a decision by the Obama Administration in January to lock in those stricter mandates through 2025, saying the rules “would have destroyed, or further destroyed, the auto industry.”

But he expects something in return. “You need to come back and give us big numbers in terms of jobs,” Trump told the chief executive officers of General Motors, Ford Motor and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. He also promised an audience of several thousand auto workers that there will be "a very big announcement next week concerning your industry."

Automakers have argued that the 2025 fuel economy targets will be difficult to meet without a big increase in electric and hybrid cars, something consumers aren't buying now because gas prices are low. Under Obama, the EPA concluded that auto makers could meet the standards with existing technologies, and that the rules would cut oil consumption and greenhouse-gas emissions, while saving consumers $92 billion at the fuel pump.

Mitch Bainwol, head of an industry lobbying group, said in a letter to Trump's new EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt, that complying with the current standards would cost the industry $200 billion. An industry-funded report from Indiana University last week also said the mandates would hike vehicle prices and threaten up to 600,000 jobs.

Consumer and environmental groups, meanwhile, complain that rolling back the standards would hurt consumers, especially low-income ones, by making them pay more at the pump.

While the debate rages, there is one risk that many are forgetting. If the U.S. relaxes the standards, automakers could quickly get lapped by more innovative global players.

"You don’t want to put anybody out of business, but you have to keep the pressure up, or they’ll keep doing things the way they’ve always done for as long as they can," said Christie Todd Whitman, who served as EPA chief under the Bush Administration.

Keeping companies' feet to the fire, Whitman said in an interview, will force them to break through what might seem like insurmountable technological challenges. She's speaking from experience: during the Bush Administration, Whitman managed to get diesel engine manufacturers to sign on to drastically cleaner emissions standards.

"When we did the diesel rule, I was told time after time that I was killing an industry" and that no company could make a diesel engine clean enough for what we wanted to do, Whitman said. "But I got one engine manufacturer who said, 'Yes, we can do it,' and after that, it was easy. We did it and the regulation is now in place, and diesel emissions have been reduced by over 95 percent."

That engine company was Cummins, based in Columbus, Ind., which decided in the early 2000s that rather than fight environmental challenges, it would turn them into a business opportunity. The company focused its strategy on developing advanced medium- and heavy-duty engines that would reduce its customers' fuel costs and help them become environmental stewards.

The strategy has paid off in spades. Cummins became a technology leader, consistently beating the new emissions standards years ahead of time, which helped fuel growth around the world. When countries like China and India began considering tougher emissions regulations, Cummins’ technical leadership became a key advantage.

"As we got better and better at these products, we were able to take them around the world and grow our business," Chief Executive Tom Linebarger told me in a 2014 interview. Today, Cummins has a broad range of diesel and natural gas engines that can meet emissions standards anywhere in the world.

The key, according to Linebarger, was partnering with government regulators to help create standards that are enforceable and achievable.

That's exactly the approach that Whitman endorses now. "We can have a thriving economy and a clean environment. It's proven," she said.

"Everybody wants clean air. Everybody wants clear water," she said. "The important thing is getting everyone at the table -- the environmentalists, the engine manufacturers, the auto industry, the EPA scientists and the OMB," she said, referring to the Office of Management and Budget, which weighs the costs of legislation.

Sounds like an opportunity for the president who bills himself as the master deal-maker.

By reopening the so-called mid-term review of fuel economy mandates, Trump is essentially giving the parties another year to debate the rules. Before Obama locked in the targets, the review process hadn't been expected to be completed until April 2018.

Follow me on Twitter @JoannMuller