Cambodia's Deputy PM Sok An dies aged 66, government spokesman says



Cambodia's Deputy PM Sok An dies aged 66, government spokesman says

Posted

Cambodia's Deputy Prime Minister Sok An, a close ally of Prime Minister Hun Sen for decades, has died at the age of 66, a government spokesman said.

Key points: Sok An negotiated with the UN to set up the Khmer Rouge tribunal

Known as "a pre-eminent Hun Sen loyalist"

His death comes as the Government prepares for local elections in June and a general election in 2018

Having served Mr Sen as secretary in the 1980s, An — one of Cambodia's 10 deputy prime ministers and the Minister for the Office of the Council of Ministers — was in charge of many influential government authorities, committees and commissions.

Local media said An ran the Government like "a Hindu god of 48 arms".

"This is a loss of the most active human resource who sacrificed everything for the sake of the Cambodian people," government spokesman Phay Siphan said, adding the cause of death had yet to be determined.

An's roles included negotiations with the United Nations on setting up a tribunal to try those with greatest responsibility for the deaths of 1.8 million people under the Khmer Rouge communist regime in the 1970s.

However, both he and Mr Sen have come under fire from rights campaigners.

An was "a pre-eminent Hun Sen loyalist, prepared to repeat any charge, justify any rights abuse, facilitate any deal and go to any length" to ensure his boss's — and therefore his own — power and wealth, said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director of New York-based advocacy group Human Rights Watch.

Mr Sen, himself a former Khmer Rouge soldier, had more recently been at odds with the UN-backed Khmer Rouge Tribunal for extending its investigations beyond the regime's core leadership.

An's death comes at a difficult time for Mr Sen as he gears up for local elections in June and a general election next year, with critics accusing him of doing anything possible to eliminate rivals and extend his three-decade leadership.

An died on Wednesday in Beijing and his body would arrive in Cambodia early on Thursday, Phay Siphan said.

Reuters

Topics: death, world-politics, cambodia, asia