Rep. Steve King’s reality is scarier than Stephen King’s fiction, Seth Meyers says

If you know nothing of politics and have been watching the latest furor-de-jour in total confusion, wondering why a famed horror novelist was apparently being called a white supremacist, then oh boy, does Seth Meyers have a joke for you. (Seth Meyers is a late-night comedian, because we’re assuming zero cultural knowledge here.) And Stephen King is the famed horror novelist, and he actually has nothing to do with a controversy started by his semi-homonym, U.S. Rep. Steve King. (Think (R-Iowa); not “It”-“Misery.”) And Meyers, on his show, which is called “Late Night with Seth Meyers,” has a regular bit in which he cracks wise at whatever’s been dominating the political news cycle. By late Tuesday night, it was unquestionably Steve King’s weekend tweet, in which the congressman praised a Dutch politician who once called some Moroccan immigrants “scum,” and ventured this thought: Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny. We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies. https://t.co/4nxLipafWO — Steve King (@SteveKingIA) March 12, 2017 Mixing babies and civilizational doom-mongering has a certain effect, especially when it comes from the man who once tried to keep Harriet Tubman off the $20 bill , and once compared Western civilization with less-equipped “subgroups.” A day after sending his babies tweet out into the word, King was trying to defend it on CNN. “ It’s not about race. It’s never been about race ,” he said. But a lot of people thought it was about race. A former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard made sure to praise the tweet. GOD BLESS STEVE KING!!! #TruthRISING  https://t.co/oDFel8JDrP — David Duke (@DrDavidDuke) March 12, 2017 Most didn’t. The editorial board of King’s home-state newspaper called the congressman “ your average, garden-variety bigot .” Except with way more power. Even King’s fellow Republican, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), denounced his comments . Okay, the comedian’s turn. “You’re a 67-year-old man,” Meyers cracked. “ the babies are someone else’s babies.” He was just warming up: “Your district is 96 percent white. You’re basically the manager of the world’s largest Williams Sonoma.” We won’t explain what Williams Sonoma is. But remember the book guy? “You really accomplished something when the guy who wrote ‘Cujo’ is no longer the scariest Stephen King,” Meyers said. Rimshot. A turn for the serious: “We don’t need to restore our civilization,” Meyers said. “We need to restore our civility.” Stephen King hasn’t weighed in on any of this. Yet, at least. The author tried his own hand at political comedy last week . Six times Steve King stirred up controversy Stephen King trolls Trump’s wiretapping tweets as only a horror writer could

Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) has come under fire for saying that "We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies," but it's far from his first time provoking controversy. (Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post)

If you know nothing of politics and have been watching the latest furor-de-jour in total confusion, wondering why a famed horror novelist was apparently being called a white supremacist, then oh boy, does Seth Meyers have a joke for you.

(Seth Meyers is a late-night comedian, because we’re assuming zero cultural knowledge here.)

And Stephen King is the famed horror novelist, and he actually has nothing to do with a controversy started by his semi-homonym, U.S. Rep. Steve King. (Think (R-Iowa); not “It”-“Misery.”)

And Meyers, on his show, which is called “Late Night with Seth Meyers,” has a regular bit in which he cracks wise at whatever’s been dominating the political news cycle.

By late Tuesday night, it was unquestionably Steve King’s weekend tweet, in which the congressman praised a Dutch politician who once called some Moroccan immigrants “scum,” and ventured this thought:

Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny. We can't restore our civilization with somebody else's babies. https://t.co/4nxLipafWO — Steve King (@SteveKingIA) March 12, 2017

Mixing babies and civilizational doom-mongering has a certain effect, especially when it comes from the man who once tried to keep Harriet Tubman off the $20 bill, and once compared Western civilization with less-equipped “subgroups.”

A day after sending his babies tweet out into the word, King was trying to defend it on CNN.

“It’s not about race. It’s never been about race,” he said.

But a lot of people thought it was about race. A former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard made sure to praise the tweet.

Most didn’t.

The editorial board of King’s home-state newspaper called the congressman “your average, garden-variety bigot.” Except with way more power.

Even King’s fellow Republican, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.), denounced his comments.

Okay, the comedian’s turn.

“You’re a 67-year-old man,” Meyers cracked. “All the babies are someone else’s babies.”

He was just warming up: “Your district is 96 percent white. You’re basically the manager of the world’s largest Williams Sonoma.”

We won’t explain what Williams Sonoma is. But remember the book guy?

“You really accomplished something when the guy who wrote ‘Cujo’ is no longer the scariest Stephen King,” Meyers said.

Rimshot. A turn for the serious: “We don’t need to restore our civilization,” Meyers said. “We need to restore our civility.”

Stephen King hasn’t weighed in on any of this.

Yet, at least.

The author tried his own hand at political comedy last week.

More reading

Six times Steve King stirred up controversy