Review: Loving's Joel Edgerton and Ruth Negga speak volumes with few words



Review: Loving's Joel Edgerton and Ruth Negga speak volumes with few words

Updated

Making a film about characters who aren't very articulate, or don't externalise their feelings, can pose a challenge for the average director working in the commercial studio system, and even for one working at its edges in the Hollywood-sponsored, indie hinterland.

The idea of the script as a dialogue-based blueprint has a long history, particularly in America, and the rise of quality television drama, which is so dependent on the snap, crackle and pop of words, has not helped widen the view.

But Jeff Nichols is a filmmaker who has clearly paid attention to other filmmaking traditions, including ones within America — the great John Ford comes to mind — where communication is via glances and gestures as much as dialogue.

His new film, the true story of a mixed race couple in 1950s Virginia fighting a racist state law that forbid them to live as a married couple, never forces words into the mouths of its characters: where a glance will suffice, a glance is all we get.

It's not the first time the director of Shotgun Stories and Take Shelter has made a film in a rural backwater, but seldom has he portrayed such poor, scarcely educated characters with as much dignity.

Richard and Mildred Loving grew up in a pocket of Virginia where whites and blacks mixed relatively freely.

They married, however, in defiance of the law, suffered jail as a result and were forced to cross state borders and live in the city until eventually they found help from civil rights lawyer Bernie Cohen, and became a cause celebre.

In what might have been a self-conscious exercise of historical fist pumping, Nichols' sparse film remains an exercise in restraint.

Even in his depiction of Richard and Mildred's teenage courtship — hanging with their hot-rod-racing, petrol-head friends — the morning after always heralds the next workday.

The green, tranquil countryside of their home town, likewise, is a place of monotony and hard work as well as comfort and familiarity.

And for Mildred's people, many of whom we see toiling in cotton fields, slavery is still a living memory.

Ethiopian-born, Irish-raised Ruth Negga was nominated for an Oscar for her performance.

She's graceful and beautiful, and speaks with the slight hesitation of someone not sure if she's talking out of turn.

Edgerton, with his bleached cropped hair and stained teeth looking like one of the rednecks from the bar in Easy Rider, is even less sure of his words.

He's a man who works with his hands — building things, fixing things — and there are moments in the film when liberal, white journalists come calling, like hounds on the trail of an irresistible scent, when his inarticulateness almost transforms into a violent outburst.

But that would have been another film.

From the earliest screening of Loving at Cannes last year, some critics complained there was not enough on screen here to engage with emotionally.

But if you observe the gestures and the glances between Negga and Edgerton, you catch a tenderness and a deep understanding that's very moving.

Nichols has obtained two fine-grained performances from his leads, and the gentleness they share together is in rich contrast to the frenzied and sometimes absurd story circulating around them, of courtroom manoeuvrings, political stakes and media scrutiny.

The film could be summed up in a brief appearance by Nichols regular Michael Shannon, who turns up midway through as a photographer working for Life magazine.

One night after dinner, hanging around the couple's modest farmhouse looking for a candid moment, he snaps a shot of them watching television.

Richard's lying on the couch, still dressed in his work clothes and boots, resting his head on Mildred's lap, while she smokes a cigarette.

The photo captures something unpretentious and deep, and Nichols, in a sense, is trying to do the same thing. He doesn't quite nail it, but he comes close enough.

Hear more film news and reviews on The Final Cut. Subscribe now on iTunes, the ABC Radio app or your favourite podcasting app.

Topics: film-movies, arts-and-entertainment, romance-films, biography-film, united-states

First posted