Could the Great Barrier Reef be WIPED OUT?
Could the Great Barrier Reef be WIPED OUT?


If seeing the Great Barrier Reef was on your bucket list, it may be too late.

More than 90 per cent of the most beautiful part of the reef has been wrecked after an underwater heatwave caused bleaching, a new study shows.

Experts have warned that the treasured natural wonder faces being wiped out unless global warming is tackled.

Scroll down for video

More than 90 per cent of the most beautiful part of the reef has been wrecked after an underwater heatwave caused bleaching, a new study shows

WHY DOES CORAL BLEACHING HAPPEN? Corals have a symbiotic relationship with a tiny marine algae called 'zooxanthellae' that live inside and nourish them. When sea surface temperatures rise, corals expel the colourful algae. The loss of the algae causes them to bleach and turn white. While mildly bleached corals can recover if the temperature drops and the algae return, severely bleached corals die.

Ever since the dramatic influx of warm water in the region last March, experts have been trying to assess the extent and damage.

Now a study has found only nine per cent of the northern part of the reef - previously the most 'pristine' - escaped bleaching.

This compares with 45 per cent in 1998 and 42 per cent in 2002 - making up the three major episodes over the past two decades.

Professor Terry Hughes, a coral expert from James Cook University in Queensland, said: 'As temperatures continue to rise, further bleaching events are likely, which may push the reef system beyond recovery.

'It is unlikely the Great Barrier Reef will ever fully recover from the severe bleaching that occurred in 2016.'

Corals become bleached and die when high temperature kill the symbiotic algae that provide the stunning colours and supply them with energy in the form of sugars.

A year ago a massive wave of bleaching struck the reef after an El Nino event brought abnormally warm waters to the region.

The study found only nine per cent of the northern part of the reef - previously the most 'pristine' - escaped bleaching

For the first time Professor Hughes and colleagues have mapped this bleaching across the entire length of the reef through the use of aerial surveys and underwater measurements.

The study, published in Nature, found it was much greater in scope and severity than the two previous major events.

Extreme bleaching - in which more than 60 per cent of corals in a given area lose their colour - was more than four times as frequent in 2016.

For the first time Prof Hughes and colleagues have mapped this bleaching across the entire length of the reef through the use of aerial surveys (left) and underwater measurements (right)

Professor Hughes said the observed distribution can be explained by the spatial patterns of ocean warming.

Local management of fishing pressure and water quality provided little protection - suggesting a curb in global warming will be needed to secure a viable future for the world's most spectacular reef system.

Professor Hughes said: 'Immediate action to reduce global warming is needed to protect coral reefs from severe bleaching events.'

About a third of the 1,429-mile natural wonder was badly bleached last year - with the northern section bearing the brunt

His detailed analysis of the Great Barrier Reef over the past two decades shows extreme heat is the key driver of mass bleaching.

By analysing individual reefs, the researchers discovered why some corals are more prone to bleaching than others.

In general, unbleached reefs were located towards the southern end of the reef where waters are cooler.

The Great Barrier Reef's hundreds of islands and 2,900 individual reefs stretch for almost 1,500 miles along the coast of North East coast of Australia

Professor Hughes said: 'The world's tropical reef ecosystems, and the people who depend on them, are increasingly affected by climate change.

'Since the 1980s, rising sea surface temperatures owing to global warming have triggered unprecedented mass bleaching of corals, including three pan-tropical events in 1998, 2010 and 2015/16.'

He added: 'Water quality and fishing pressure had minimal effect on the unprecedented bleaching in 2016, suggesting that local protection of reefs affords little or no resistance to extreme heat.

THE 50 REEFS PROJECT 50 Reefs is a project aiming to identify those reefs with the best chance of survival in warming oceans and raise public awareness. It brings together leading ocean, climate and marine scientists as well as conservation practitioners from around the world to develop a list of the 50 most critical coral reefs to protect. The final list and corresponding initiatives, to be announced later this year, will raise awareness of the increasing severity of climate change impacts on the ocean and catalyze the global action and investment required to protect these important reef systems for the future, organisers hope. A unique philanthropic coalition of innovators in business, technology and government are supporting 50 Reefs, led by Bloomberg Philanthropies with The Tiffany & Co. Foundation and The Paul G. Allen Family Foundation, with the aim of preventing the worst economic, social, and environmental impacts of this enormous crisis.

'Similarly, past exposure to bleaching in 1998 and 2002 did not lessen the severity of bleaching in 2016.

'Securing a future for coral reefs, including intensively managed ones such as the Great Barrier Reef, ultimately requires urgent and rapid action to reduce global warming.'

It was the third time in 18 years the World Heritage site, famous for its bewildering variety of marine life, has experienced mass bleaching.

The Great Barrier Reef's hundreds of islands and 2,900 individual reefs stretch for almost 1,500 miles along the coast of North East coast of Australia.

About a third of the 1,429-mile natural wonder was badly bleached last year - with the northern section bearing the brunt.



