Northeast digs out from March snowstorm as ski areas revel
Northeast digs out from March snowstorm as ski areas revel
Shares                The Northeast was in dig-out mode Wednesday, a day after a treacherous storm packing strong winds and accompanying plummeting temperatures left some residents dealing with rock-hard ice and others with more than 2 feet of snow. The upshot: a late-season boost to the region's ski areas. The powerful nor'easter that paralyzed much of the Washington-to-Boston corridor Tuesday fell short of the predicted snowfall in many areas, but the 29.9 inches of snow that fell by Wednesday afternoon at the Burlington International Airport in Vermont was the second-most on record, about 3 inches shy of the high established in January 2010. "Yesterday it was too tough to drive out here, but today it was perfect," said Lindsey Poirier, who was skiing at the Pats Peak ski area Wednesday in Henniker, New Hampshire . "The conditions are really good. The powder is awesome." Many schools in New England remain closed or had delayed openings Wednesday, giving crews time to dig out from the storm, which followed a stretch of unusually mild winter weather . In Albany, New York, streets were largely cleared Wednesday morning of the almost 2 feet of snow that fell a day earlier. But many cars were still buried under thick blankets of snow. Marisa Burgos spun her wheels in her snowy driveway in an attempt to go out and buy some gas for her snowblower. "I was ready for spring. I really was," Burgos said. "I want to enjoy the weather, but it's just so hard to do that with all this snow." In Portland, Maine, most roads and sidewalks were cleared Wednesday, but firefighters were just getting to work digging out 1,500 hydrants. Fire Lt. Paul Marshall and two other firefighters were responsible for digging out 120 to 180 hydrants that were buried by snowplows. "I'll be a sweaty mess, but everyone's in it together. Everyone's in the same boat. So it builds a weird camaraderie," Marshall said. "Everyone is miserable together. And we finish it together. And it's a huge relief when it's done." Most people heeded warnings to stay off the roads, preventing the multicar pileups typically seen after a bad storm, but there were still deaths. A 16-year-old girl was killed when she lost control of her car on a snowy road and crashed into a tree in Gilford, New Hampshire, police said. In East Hartford, Connecticut, an elderly man died after being struck by a snowplow truck. And, in Longmeadow, Massachusetts, a public works employee was killed after the snowplow he was driving was hit by an Amtrak plow train clearing tracks. The largest snowfall reported in Vermont was 34 inches in the town of Jay, about 50 miles northeast of Burlington, along the Canadian border. National Weather Service Meteorologist Eric Evenson said that as of midnight Tuesday, the Burlington airport had received 60.6 inches of snow, still 8.8 inches below normal for the season but well ahead of the same point last year when only 29.9 inches had fallen. At the Mad River Glen ski area, in Waitsfield, Vermont, which has limited snowmaking, much of the resort has been closed over the last two weeks because of a lack of snow. The resort had been considering closing for the season after this weekend, but that was before Tuesday's storm hit, spokesman Eric Friedman said Wednesday. "What's really remarkable is we went in 24 hours from bare ground to pushing 30 inches of snow," Friedman said. "We went from crap to really epic." ——— Associated Press writers Mike Hill in Albany, New York; Holly Ramer in Henniker, New Hampshire; and David Sharp in Portland, Maine contributed to this report. Shares                  Northeast digs out from March snowstorm as ski areas revel   Trump pivots on wiretapping accusation, brushes aside tax leak   How Russian agents allegedly directed massive Yahoo cyber attack   Fed raises rate and sees more hikes as US economy improves   White House meeting on Saudi underscores kingdom's influence   Texas congressman tells town hall attendee to 'shut up'   White House: Trump paid $38 million in federal income tax in 2005   Navy bribery scandal widens as more sordid details emerge   Trump 'probably not the source' of leaked tax return, journalist who received document says   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Author who penned dating profile for husband has died   Senate votes to approve Trump's picks for key security posts   Dutch voting in election seen as barometer of populism   Ryan's gambit: Second health care bill to woo the reluctant   Lone lawmaker crusades against the death penalty in Alabama   Tillerson shuns all but conservative website on Asia tour   Damascus suicide bombings kill dozens, Syrian TV reports   Afghan official: Death toll from hospital attack rises to 50   Pope warns of 'very grave sin' when jobs are cut unjustly   US women's hockey players threaten boycott over wages   How the GOP health care plan would affect women   CBO: 14 million more uninsured next year under GOP plan   How a Mississippi woman found biological father after 32 years   McDonald's worker rescues unconscious cop at drive-through   Colorado State student, boat crew member missing off Florida coast   Obama picks North Carolina men, UConn women in NCAA tourney   US envoy makes 1st Asia trip as anxiety rises over N. Korea   GOP health overhaul puts pressure on state governments   Paris Jackson says she was Michael's 'favorite' child   John Legend 'so proud' of wife Chrissy Teigen's essay on postpartum depression   Michelle Obama writes college letter for 'Black-ish' star

The Northeast was in dig-out mode Wednesday, a day after a treacherous storm packing strong winds and accompanying plummeting temperatures left some residents dealing with rock-hard ice and others with more than 2 feet of snow. The upshot: a late-season boost to the region's ski areas.

The powerful nor'easter that paralyzed much of the Washington-to-Boston corridor Tuesday fell short of the predicted snowfall in many areas, but the 29.9 inches of snow that fell by Wednesday afternoon at the Burlington International Airport in Vermont was the second-most on record, about 3 inches shy of the high established in January 2010.

"Yesterday it was too tough to drive out here, but today it was perfect," said Lindsey Poirier, who was skiing at the Pats Peak ski area Wednesday in Henniker, New Hampshire. "The conditions are really good. The powder is awesome."

Many schools in New England remain closed or had delayed openings Wednesday, giving crews time to dig out from the storm, which followed a stretch of unusually mild winter weather.

In Albany, New York, streets were largely cleared Wednesday morning of the almost 2 feet of snow that fell a day earlier. But many cars were still buried under thick blankets of snow.

Marisa Burgos spun her wheels in her snowy driveway in an attempt to go out and buy some gas for her snowblower.

"I was ready for spring. I really was," Burgos said. "I want to enjoy the weather, but it's just so hard to do that with all this snow."

In Portland, Maine, most roads and sidewalks were cleared Wednesday, but firefighters were just getting to work digging out 1,500 hydrants. Fire Lt. Paul Marshall and two other firefighters were responsible for digging out 120 to 180 hydrants that were buried by snowplows.

"I'll be a sweaty mess, but everyone's in it together. Everyone's in the same boat. So it builds a weird camaraderie," Marshall said. "Everyone is miserable together. And we finish it together. And it's a huge relief when it's done."

Most people heeded warnings to stay off the roads, preventing the multicar pileups typically seen after a bad storm, but there were still deaths. A 16-year-old girl was killed when she lost control of her car on a snowy road and crashed into a tree in Gilford, New Hampshire, police said. In East Hartford, Connecticut, an elderly man died after being struck by a snowplow truck. And, in Longmeadow, Massachusetts, a public works employee was killed after the snowplow he was driving was hit by an Amtrak plow train clearing tracks.

The largest snowfall reported in Vermont was 34 inches in the town of Jay, about 50 miles northeast of Burlington, along the Canadian border.

National Weather Service Meteorologist Eric Evenson said that as of midnight Tuesday, the Burlington airport had received 60.6 inches of snow, still 8.8 inches below normal for the season but well ahead of the same point last year when only 29.9 inches had fallen.

At the Mad River Glen ski area, in Waitsfield, Vermont, which has limited snowmaking, much of the resort has been closed over the last two weeks because of a lack of snow. The resort had been considering closing for the season after this weekend, but that was before Tuesday's storm hit, spokesman Eric Friedman said Wednesday.

"What's really remarkable is we went in 24 hours from bare ground to pushing 30 inches of snow," Friedman said. "We went from crap to really epic."

———

Associated Press writers Mike Hill in Albany, New York; Holly Ramer in Henniker, New Hampshire; and David Sharp in Portland, Maine contributed to this report.