March Madness 2017 Predictions: Breaking Down Experts' Picks
March Madness 2017 Predictions: Breaking Down Experts' Picks
March Madness 2017 Predictions: Breaking Down Experts' Picks If you followed college basketball closely enough this season, the odds are you've seen or read some of what the sport's experts have had to say about which are the best teams in the country. Now it's time for the experts to put their money where their mouths are so to speak via their official 2017 NCAA tournament brackets. We've broken down the predictions of some of the nation's most noted college hoops experts to show you where they're in agreement and where each stands out from the pack. And just in case you're still on the fence as to who to pick in your own bracket, seeing which way these personalities went could sway you in one direction or another. Just remember who to share your winning with or, more likely, who to blame for a busted bracket. Nicole Auerbach, USA Today  Auerbach has flown all over the country to see games in person, so her knowledge of which teams are playing well is second to none. A regular-season sweep of Villanova likely influenced her choice to have Butler make the Sweet 16 despite the enticement to go with trendy No. 12 seed Middle Tennessee instead. At the same time, she understands that as good a story as Northwestern making the tourney is, it doesn't mean the Wildcats will go any further than the second round.  Auerbach thinks there's some 2011 Connecticut in this year's Michigan squad since she's got the team that survived a minor plane crash to win four games in four days at the Big Ten tournament into the Final Four. That would require knocking off an impressive list of opponents starting with No. 2 Louisville in the second round, third-seeded Oregon in the Sweet 16 and top seed Kansas in the Elite Eight. A Nevada-Vermont second-round game would send the Wolf Pack into the Sweet 16 in the Midwest, which is not something you'll see on a lot of brackets, nor is seeing Notre Dame in the Final Four as the West Region champ instead of co-favorites Arizona and Gonzaga. Instead of thinking Mark Few or Sean Miller finally get over the hump, she's going with Mike Brey, who's equally as deserving.  There hasn't been a repeat national champion since Florida in 2007, and we haven't had a title game rematch the championship since Cincinnati and Ohio State met in both the 1961 and 1962 finals, but Auerbach feels the time is right for that to happen. Last year's Villanova vs. North Carolina clash was epic, and a chance to see that one again isn't going to be criticized by many. Jay Bilas, ESPN  Bilas isn't just a former player who's now serving as one of ESPN's top college basketball analysts, he's also a practicing attorney. That means he's pretty smart and is apt to give measured responses to questions. And that approach extends to his bracket picks which he evidently spent a lot of time on. He goes into great detail explaining how a lot of upsets could happen but then grounds himself again and goes with the favorite in most cases. He has eight double-digit seeds winning in the first round but makes the case for plenty more, and he even cautions that "it may be best for your bracket to go with chalk here" despite his choice of No. 12 Nevada over Iowa State.  A Duke-North Carolina national title game? Yes, please. Bilas thinks it's possible, and with each team either a No. 1 or No. 2 seed, it wouldn't be hard to happen. In reality, though, there hasn't been a pairing of conference rivals in the final since Kansas beat Oklahoma in 1988. That's the closest thing to a major reach Bilas takes since he has no team seeded lower than sixth making it out of the first weekend. The last time there was a tourney that lacking in Cinderellas was 2007, when No. 7 UNLV was the lowest-seeded team to make the Sweet 16. That means his lack of gambles is the biggest risk he's taking.  If Bilas was representing you in court, you'd want to take this bracket as gospel, but if he were on the other side of the case you wouldn't trust a thing he says. That's basically how you should look at his bracket since it errs on the side of safety—like a lawyer trying to negotiate a favorable settlement for his client—but it's certainly rooted in the teams he is most knowledgeable about. Though he is the analyst on ESPN's game of the week each Saturday the majority of his assignments are in the ACC, thus explaining why he has three teams from that conference (Duke, Louisville, North Carolina) in the Final Four. Rob Dauster, NBC Sports  For as much chaos as Dauster has during the first round—he has 10 double-digit seeds making it to the weekend—the chalk starts to come out during the second weekend. His Elite Eight features only two teams seeded higher than second, with No. 5 Notre Dame being the closest thing to a Cinderella, though the Fighting Irish beating No. 1 Gonzaga in the Sweet 16 is a trendy pick. A Duke/Kansas final isn't hard to imagine.  Rhode Island and Xavier in the Sweet 16 means Dauster feels two of the last teams into the field—Rhody might have been in the First Four had it not won the Atlantic 10 tournament—are good enough to make a run despite having uneven regular seasons. At the same time, though, he has chosen not to advance a First Four at-large winner past the first round despite at least one doing so every year since 2011. We'll see how that works out. Purdue is the highest-seeded team from the Big Ten and has a formidable front line in 7'2" Isaac Haas and double-double machine Caleb Swanigan. But Dauster thinks the Boilermakers will be the latest victim of No. 13 Vermont, which comes into the tourney with a 21-game win streak. Dauster also has a pair of second-round games pitting double-digit seeds, including No. 12 UNC-Wilmington (having already beaten Virginia) taking down No. 13 East Tennessee State after it had beaten Florida.  With a good mix of early craziness and late calm, it's the kind of bracket that you'd see quite a lot in an office pool. It might not win, but if a few of those Thursday/Friday upsets happen, it could be way out in front of the pack at the first checkpoint. C.J. Moore, Bleacher Report  We can't critique other experts' brackets without making sure to do the same to one of our own, and so Moore is the guinea pig from our college basketball staff whose selections get included. And while it might sound self-aggrandizing to say so, he's got a pretty good bracket. Though the Elite Eight is pretty chalky, with no team seeded lower than third getting that far, early on he's more than willing to shatter the dreams of some teams with feelgood stories. Minnesota's turnaround from 8-23 to 24-9 was tremendous, but the Golden Gophers could be in big trouble against Middle Tennessee and not just because it's one of those vaunted 5/12 matchups that often leads to an upset. And Michigan's tear through the Big Ten has it riding high entering the NCAA tournament, but Moore thinks that run won't go any further than the Sweet 16.  Say what you want about LaVar Ball, father of UCLA freshman star Lonzo, and his outlandish claims that his son is better than Steph Curry and that the former Washington State player would " kill " Michael Jordan in a game of one-on-one, there's no denying he's making sure the Bruins are constantly getting discussed. And Moore appears to be drinking the Kool-Aid since he's got UCLA in the Final Four, meaning it would need to knock off Kentucky in the Sweet 16 and North Carolina in the Elite Eight. The Bruins have already done the former, winning at Rupp Arena in December, and taking out the Tar Heels would no doubt prompt LaVar Ball to double down on his trash talk against former UNC great Jordan.  With a Gonzaga-Kansas title game pairing and the Jayhawks as national champs, Moore is predicting just the eighth final between No. 1 seeds. That includes 2008, the last time Kansas won it all when it toppled Memphis in the only Final Four to feature four top seeds. Kansas-based Moore has seen the the Jayhawks up close quite a bit this season, and he's leaning on those observations as well as how well senior guard Frank Mason has played. "Going with the guy who has been the best player in America who is surrounded by great talent seems like a smart pick," he wrote. Gary Parrish, CBS Sports  Oregon losing three-point shooting rim protector Chris Boucher to a torn ACL during the Pac-12 tournament contributed to its tourney final loss to Arizona; it probably also led to the selection committee dropping it to a No. 3 seed. Parrish is thinking the Ducks are a wounded animal ripe for getting bumped off early, and while he has them taking care of Iona in the first round, he's got them falling to No. 11 Rhode Island two days later. The Rams are the only team seeded lower than fifth that Parrish has making it out of the first weekend, which might seem risk-averse, but it's a sensible approach in a bracket contest where the point values for correct picks double by the round. East Tennessee State and Nevada are his biggest first-round upsets, but history has shown that those kind of upstarts rarely pull off two straight shockers.  Virginia has developed a reputation of underachieving in the NCAA tournament in recent years, getting knocked out early by lower-seeded Michigan State teams in 2014 and 2015 and then collapsing against Syracuse in last season's Elite Eight. The Cavaliers struggled this season and only earned a No. 5 seed, but Parrish has a feeling that will mean they can overachieve . He's got the Cavs making the Elite Eight again by taking out defending national champion Villanova in the Sweet 16. Those teams met in January, with 'Nova winning by two, and Virginia's defensive intensity could be the difference in a rematch. But he stops short of giving the Cavs that elusive Final Four bid, instead advancing Duke. Other experts on this list have UCLA making the Final Four, but Parrish stands out for pushing the Bruins all the way to the title game where it hasn't been since 2006. And he's got the program with the most NCAA championships (11) getting their first since 1995.  In explaining his UCLA choice , Parrish noted that he decided on the Bruins "a few weeks back" and then cited all of their assets. However, he made no mention of their biggest flaw defensive ability and how that was a major factor in losing to Arizona in the Pac-12 semifinals and nearly caused them to lose to USC in the quarterfinals. He's not basing his national-title pick solely on a conference tournament performance, but not taking it into consideration seems unwise. Jon Rothstein, CBS/FanRag Sports  Rothstein isn't recommending you buy stock in some of the most common upset choices, as he doesn't think UNC-Wilmington is enough of a thing of beauty to get past Virginia or that there's so much Dunk City in Florida Gulf Coast to warrant having the Eagles knock off Florida State. He does have the Providence/USC First Four winner moving on to the Sweet 16, though, taking out SMU and Baylor along the way, making for a tougher weekend for those teams than spending it with the in-laws.  Kentucky getting bounced by Wichita State? Miami (Florida) in the Elite Eight? Louisville winning it all? If any or all of those predictions come true, they're going to create some palpable buzz across the college basketball landscape. And it looks like even the best Fortune 500 companies can't run themselves forever. While Rothstein has Villanova making the Elite Eight the furthest any defending national champion would have gone since Florida's back-to-back titles in 2006-07 he doesn't think the Wildcats have the DNA to get to the Final Four.  One of the sport's top insiders looks to be turning to some anonymous sources for a few of his selections. That's often enabled him to break news before anyone else, and it could mean he'll have scooped the rest of the field if his bracket pans out as predicted. Or he could be horribly wrong, which would be the epitome of brutality. This is March, though, where the unexpected becomes the ordinary.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

","duration":58,"description":null,"author_name":"Team Stream Now","article_type":"uber_article","analytics":{"video_id":17646,"title":"UNCW's Biggest Cinderella Story Is Their Walk-on Guard Chris Flemmings","stream":"College Basketball","published_at":"2017-03-15T16:09:24.484000","id":"88fcca1f-a879-431e-9996-7999e7c4ab6f","event":"inspires-video"},"amp_url":null,"ad_stitched_url":null},"media_width":null,"media_url":null,"media_id":null,"media_height":null,"hook_type":"photo","autoplay":false}},{"url_hash":"f4a3a768b0c15a8f15557ca57592f677c29200420b86c6b1ce439c02112e1a1c","url":"http://bleacherreport.com/articles/2696443-ncaa-basketball-championship-2017-who-best-fits-the-blueprint-of-a-winner","updated_at":"2017-03-15T11:21:30Z","tag":{"unique_name":"mm-related-content","tag_id":97782,"short_name":"MM RC","logo":"mm_related_content.png","display_name":"MM Related Content","color2":"","color1":""},"status":"active","position":null,"playlist_type":"ts","playlist_id":957201,"permalink":"/articles/track/6440316434-who-best-fits-the-championship-blueprint","performed_by":"gmarchetti@bleacherreport.com","original_url_hash":67610800,"notification":null,"is_locked":false,"is_featured":false,"internal_position":"3.6406250000","id_str":"6440316434","id":6440316434,"href":"http://djay.bleacherreport.com/playlists/mm-related-content_ts/tracks/6440316434","hide_from_regions":[],"hidden_attributes":[],"group_tags":[],"expires_at":null,"created_at":"2017-03-15T14:53:21Z","content_type":"external_article","content":{"title":"Who Best Fits the Championship Blueprint?","thumbnail_url":"https://img.bleacherreport.net/img/images/photos/003/664/107/hi-res-6041a74ec022f0ce26ed2bf1eaca26ee_crop_exact.jpg?w=900&h=600&q=75","metadata":{"title":"NCAA Basketball Championship 2017: Who Best Fits the Blueprint of a Winner?","thumbnail_url":"https://img.bleacherreport.net/img/images/photos/003/664/107/hi-res-6041a74ec022f0ce26ed2bf1eaca26ee_crop_exact.jpg?w=900&h=600&q=75","provider_url":"http://bleacherreport.com","provider_name":"Bleacher Report","photo_credit":"Anthony Gruppuso-USA TODAY Sports","description":"

After four months of basketball, you would think that a team typically is what it is.

This exercise is done to identify the traits of a national champion by studying past champs. I identified 10 criteria that most champions fall under and put the top four seeds in each region through the gamut to see who has that championship look.

But the last three national champs have taught us that it’s apparently never too late to change.

In 2014, Connecticut looked nothing like a title contender. Any Huskies fans who want to raise their hands and say \"I picked them\" weren’t living in reality.

The Huskies were such an outlier I made the decision to not even study their numbers. It was a freak accident, and it was to be treated as such.

But the last two years have also been unusual in that one criteria the eventual champ fell well short of meeting in the regular season became a huge strength in the postseason.

In 2015, Duke went from playing meh defense for four months to unleashing one of the stingiest defenses in the history of the tournament. The Blue Devils entered the tourney ranked 57th in adjusted efficiency and finished 12th. That sort of jump over six games just does not happen.

Last season, Villanova shot a bunch of threes but wasn’t very accurate, entering the tourney making 34.4 percent from deep—37 percent is the target in the blueprint. Somehow, the Wildcats all turned into Stephen Curry and plowed through the bracket nailing exactly 50 percent of their threes.

This is a long way of saying that the results of this exercise should be considered in picking the champ, but we should also consider the possibility a team somehow changes in the middle of March.

I’m also 0-for-4 using this data to pick the title winner.

Last season, the numbers loved Michigan State, which was only the second team in four years to hit all 10 criteria. Sparty, of course, lost in the first round to Middle Tennessee.

But to justify the sake of this exercise, the numbers did like Louisville in 2013, Duke in 2015 and Villanova last year, so the data is worth running. At least, that’s what I keep telling myself.

Here are the 10 qualifications, which I've adjusted slightly through the years based on rule changes and trends:



Head coach has reached an Elite Eight.



Team won either its regular-season conference title or conference tournament. (This rule could get replaced next season. Before UConn in 2014, every champ since 1990 except Arizona in 1997 had won a league title. Then last year's champ failed to do so as well, making this qualifier moot for two straight years. But since UConn in '14 never happened, the blueprint is currently chalking Duke up as an outlier.)



Ranks in the top 20 in KenPom.com's adjusted offensive efficiency ratings.



Ranks in the top 20 in KenPom.com's adjusted defensive efficiency ratings.



Shoots better than 37 percent from beyond the arc.



Has at least three double-digit scorers. (Allow rounding, so 9.5-plus qualifies.)



Has a frontcourt scorer who averages more than 12 points per game or will get picked in the first round of the NBA draft.



Rebounds better than 34 percent of its misses on the offensive end. (The cutoff was 37 percent, but because offensive rebounding is less of a priority, the number has dropped. More on this later.)



Holds opponents to less than 45 percent shooting inside the arc.



Has a defensive free-throw rate better than 34 percent. (Free-throw rate is the number of free throws attempted per field-goal attempt.)



A reminder that only top-four seeds qualify. Connecticut in 2014 is the only champ seeded below the four line in the last 28 years, and as it relates to this blueprint, that never happened.

Pedigree Tests

Gonzaga gets a lot of flack for never reaching the Final Four, but Mark Few has been to six Sweet 16s and reached the Elite Eight two years ago.

Three of the five coaches who haven’t reached an Elite Eight—Florida State’s Leonard Hamilton, UCLA’s Steve Alford and Purdue’s Matt Painter—have at least been to a Sweet 16.

Coaches with previous Final Four experience do seem to have an advantage. Since 1990, the only coaches to win on their first trip to the Final Four are Jim Harrick (UCLA, 1995), Tubby Smith (Kentucky, 1998), Jim Calhoun (UConn, 1999), Bill Self (Kansas, 2008) and Kevin Ollie (UConn, 2014).

The conference champ test has not been as important the last few years. UConn was the first since Arizona in 1997 to win the title without winning its league’s regular season or postseason, and then Duke did the same the next year. (The Blue Devils did go 15-3 in the ACC that year and finished just one game back of Virginia.) Villanova, the 2016 Big East regular season champ, was a return to the norm last season.

Offensive Footprint

The 2014 Huskies are the only team to finish outside the top 20 in adjusted efficiency in the KenPom.com era (since 2002), so this is one of the most important boxes to check.

Louisville, Baylor, Purdue and Florida State all fall short here, but that could quickly change with just one efficient night scoring the ball in the tournament. West Virginia was in the top 20 most of the season and has fallen off as of late.

The Mountaineers rely a lot on their defense to create easy scoring opportunities, and since most tourney teams haven’t ever seen their press, they could return to earlier season form, which was aided by transition opportunities created by live-ball turnovers.

While overall efficiency is what matters most, a majority of champs get there with accurate three-point shooting, an ability to rebound misses, balanced scoring and at least one scoring big man.

(Note: As college basketball has trended smaller, many teams employ a small-ball 4 who would typically play on the wing. Those mini 4s still qualify as big men for this test.)

Kansas is the only team that hits on both marks for three-point shooting and offensive rebounding. Most teams are either-or. The Jayhawks get it done by putting four shooters on the perimeter and then camping center Landen Lucas near the bucket. Lucas, who isn’t that quick or explosive like most elite rebounders, does an excellent job tracking where misses are going to come off. Josh Jackson is also a sneaky offensive rebounder because he can cover ground so quickly.

The Jayhawks are also a rarity because most teams aren't able to successfully crash the offensive glass with just one or two guys. Most coaches either decide to send everyone but their point guard to the glass or ignore offensive rebounding almost entirely to get back in transition. And if I were to reevaluate the blueprint—another Michigan State-like pick and I might—the offensive rebounding test is one I might ditch. I lowered the number from 37 percent to 34 percent last year because offensive rebounding numbers have trended downward in recent years, and so many teams are abandoning the glass that it almost makes the category irrelevant.

Villanova is one of those teams that sacrificed the offensive glass for getting back in transition, and for the second straight year, Jay Wright’s club doesn’t come close to hitting the mark.

Defensive Footprint

Are there any 2015 Dukes in this field? First, let’s look at the numbers.

UCLA would be the most unexpected of the group to make a massive improvement on the defensive end. The Bruins have been trending in a better direction late in the season but it’s hard to see them committing to defense so much so that they become dominant.

Duke held opponents to 90.1 points per 100 possessions in that tourney run. The only major-conference foe UCLA held below that mark this season was lifeless Washington twice, and one of those games was played without Markelle Fultz.

Oregon, Florida State, North Carolina, Arizona, Kansas and Duke have the personnel to jump into the top 20.

The Ducks are the best shot-blocking team in the country but are now without leading shot-blocker Chris Boucher. Florida State has the length and athletes to be nasty on the defensive end. It's a surprise the Seminoles aren't consistently there already. Arizona is strong on the perimeter and has a defensive-minded coach in Sean Miller, but its bigs are not as gifted defensively as past 'Zona interior players.

Kansas could be the best candidate to pull a Duke. The Jayhawks seem to pick their spots to defend, but this group has been elite before—ranking third in adjusted efficiency last year—and Josh Jackson is the X-factor that Duke had in Justise Winslow. Winslow was a beast on the defensive end in the tournament in 2015, flying all over the floor as a small-ball 4. Jackson is a similar force with the versatility and defensive range to cause havoc.

And even Duke could pull a 2015 Duke, especially if Harry Giles becomes more of a factor. Giles has the ability to be a stud on the defensive end. He just has been slow to adjust and not super confident in his surgically-repaired knees. He was once expected to be the No. 1 pick in 2017, and he has flashed some of the old Giles lately. But Mike Krzyzewski is so committed to playing small that it could be difficult to find more minutes for Giles. That means Jayson Tatum needs to do his best to pull a Winslow.

Results

The top seeds usually fare better than most, but there is more of a divide this season than in years past. The sum of criteria checked for the ones (34) is higher than any other year I’ve run the numbers with 2013 (32) coming closest. That year a No. 1 seed (Louisville) won the title.

Villanova checks just as many boxes as last season, but this team is slightly different. Like last year, Wright’s team falls short on the offensive glass. The Wildcats this season shoot it better from deep—although the tourney version of Nova did so too—and their two-point defense, which hit the mark last season, is not nearly as stingy. That’s one reason I’m not sure the Wildcats are as set to go on a deep run. Daniel Ochefu offered rim protection that this team doesn’t have.

The data likes both Kansas and Gonzaga, which makes me feel good because those are the teams I have in the championship game in my bracket. I quickly feel not so good when I remember how the blueprint has performed the last four years.

The Zags only fall short on the offensive glass, and again, that’s probably the least important criteria. KU’s unchecked box (adjusted defensive efficiency) is a more glaring shortcoming and KU’s commitment to defense in the tournament could control its fate.

If you’re picking Florida State, Florida, West Virginia or Butler to win the title, you may want to rethink that selection.

The last thing that should be noted is that every year I’ve done this—sans 2014, the tournament that didn’t really happen—the eventual champ has checked at least seven boxes.

So your 2017 national champion will come from this group of schools: Villanova, Kansas, North Carolina, Gonzaga, Kentucky, Arizona, Duke, Oregon or Baylor.

And if it’s not, I give up.

Unless otherwise noted, statistics courtesy of KenPom.com.



C.J. Moore covers college basketball and football for Bleacher Report. You can follow him on Twitter: @CJMooreBR.









Read more NCAA Tournament news on BleacherReport.com

The Madness begins in Dayton, Ohio, with two games Tuesday and two more Wednesday providing an enticing appetizer for the excitement to come.

Although the First Four is considered a preliminary round for teams that barely made it into the 68-team field, those games have proved to be the starting point for some storybook tournament runs.

Last season, Wichita State emerged from a First Four victory over Vanderbilt to beat No. 6-seeded Arizona in the first round. Other First Four survivors have done more. Tennessee in 2014 and La Salle in 2013 both got to the Sweet 16 by winning three games in the first week.

That pales in comparison to what Virginia Commonwealth did in 2011. Despite complaints that the Rams should not have been in the tournament at all, they got all the way to the Final Four by winning five straight games.

The preliminary-round games likely to impact the rest of the tournament are the two involving the last four at-large teams to be selected: Wake Forest, Providence, USC and Kansas State. But the two contests featuring the four lowest-seeded teams of the tournament give these small-conference schools their one chance to shine on the national stage.

What makes these games different from the first-round games later in the week is that each of the First Four participants plays an opponent with the same seed, making every game a virtual tossup that could come down to the last shot. That is what March Madness is all about.

Predictions text written by Jake Curtis.

Begin Slideshow