Rent Chickens, Sell the Eggs: Eye on Chinese Media
Rent Chickens, Sell the Eggs: Eye on Chinese Media
China’s youth show a greater interest in politics, with nearly 40 percent of those who followed this year’s government work report under age 30, according to a survey by the Communist Party’s People’s Daily. The South China Sea sovereignty dispute has become a prime concern of the younger generation, followed by issues such as the economy and the one-child policy. The paper urged more young people to participate in politics. President Xi Jinping has demanded greater party loyalty ahead of a leadership reshuffle in the autumn. Elsewhere: The government in the restive far west region of Xinjiang will inject record funding of 170 billion yuan ($25 billion) into new roads, up nearly sixfold from 2016, China Daily reports . The investment is part of a campaign to build the region into a trade hub linking countries along the Silk Road Economic Belt. Xinjiang, home to China’s largest Muslim minority group, has a border stretching more than 5,600 kilometers with eight countries including Pakistan and Kazakhstan. China aims to showcase its signature “Belt and Road” initiative in the country’s first Silk Road summit in May. The amended annual government work report included a new line aimed at curbing real estate prices in some major cities, as China’s investment in property development continued to rise in the first two months of this year, the official China Youth Daily reports . Housing sales maintained robust growth despite a central economic conference last year announced that the tone for the real estate market in 2017 should be "stable and healthy development". Chicken rentals help combat poverty in Shaanxi province, Xinhua reports. Over the past decade, rent-a-chicken has helped more than 800 households in Yan’an city’s Yanchang county, where more than 20,000 poor households previously had annual per capita income of less than 2,300 yuan. Cooperatives earn 0.1 yuan from each egg, while farmers can earn 0.15 yuan, the report said. The province, a key place Communist Party’s

China’s youth show a greater interest in politics, with nearly 40 percent of those who followed this year’s government work report under age 30, according to a survey by the Communist Party’s People’s Daily. The South China Sea sovereignty dispute has become a prime concern of the younger generation, followed by issues such as the economy and the one-child policy. The paper urged more young people to participate in politics. President Xi Jinping has demanded greater party loyalty ahead of a leadership reshuffle in the autumn.

Elsewhere:



The government in the restive far west region of Xinjiang will inject record funding of 170 billion yuan ($25 billion) into new roads, up nearly sixfold from 2016, China Daily reports. The investment is part of a campaign to build the region into a trade hub linking countries along the Silk Road Economic Belt. Xinjiang, home to China’s largest Muslim minority group, has a border stretching more than 5,600 kilometers with eight countries including Pakistan and Kazakhstan. China aims to showcase its signature “Belt and Road” initiative in the country’s first Silk Road summit in May.

reports. The investment is part of a campaign to build the region into a trade hub linking countries along the Silk Road Economic Belt. Xinjiang, home to China’s largest Muslim minority group, has a border stretching more than 5,600 kilometers with eight countries including Pakistan and Kazakhstan. China aims to showcase its signature “Belt and Road” initiative in the country’s first Silk Road summit in May. The amended annual government work report included a new line aimed at curbing real estate prices in some major cities, as China’s investment in property development continued to rise in the first two months of this year, the official China Youth Daily reports. Housing sales maintained robust growth despite a central economic conference last year announced that the tone for the real estate market in 2017 should be

"stable and healthy development".

reports. Housing sales maintained robust growth despite a central economic conference last year announced that the tone for the real estate market in 2017 should be "stable and healthy development". Chicken rentals help combat poverty in Shaanxi province, Xinhua reports. Over the past decade, rent-a-chicken has helped more than 800 households in Yan’an city’s Yanchang county, where more than 20,000 poor households previously had annual per capita income of less than 2,300 yuan. Cooperatives earn 0.1 yuan from each egg, while farmers can earn 0.15 yuan, the report said. The province, a key place during the Communist Party’s revolution, remains one of the poorest regions in the country.

— With assistance by Keith Zhai