Woman Helps Man Abandoned By His Mother Reclaim Life After Being Homeless For 3 Years
Woman Helps Man Abandoned By His Mother Reclaim Life After Being Homeless For 3 Years
Woman Helps Man Abandoned By His Mother Reclaim Life After Being Homeless For 3 Years More often than not, people living on the streets are seen as eyesores. While most would pity their plight and give them a buck or two, there are a few who'd go out of their way to make a difference. Case in point: A woman from Texas set up a simple Facebook page and gave a homeless man a new lease of life. For three years,  a homeless man named, Victor Hubbard, battling mental illness, stood at the same street corner day in and day out. Hundreds of people would drive past wondering what his story must be, until one day, Ginger Sprouse, decided to stop by and ask him. When Sprouse approached Victor last December, she learned that he stood on a street corner waiting and hoping to reunite with his mother who abandoned him. That's when Sprouse set up a Facebook page called 'This is Victor' to spread the word. Since then, there's been no turning back. The Facebook page has garnered 29,000 followers. Thousands of people have volunteered to help Victor start a new life, along with Sprouse, who helped him wash clothes, set up appointments with mental health experts. She also managed to get him a job in her own company called Art of Meal as a chef. "We have Victor in a warm, safe place, he has plenty of new clothes, food, and a brand new bike. He has been seen by a doctor and our wonderful Webster Fire Department is overseeing his medication. We have lined up a dentist and eye doctor." wrote Sprouse. Sprouse also set up a GoFundMe page to help raise funds for Victor. The page has raised over $22,427 in two months. Since setting the Facebook page and GoFundMe pages, Victor has been able to get in touch with his uncle and more recently he was reunited with his mother.

More often than not, people living on the streets are seen as eyesores. While most would pity their plight and give them a buck or two, there are a few who'd go out of their way to make a difference.

Case in point: A woman from Texas set up a simple Facebook page and gave a homeless man a new lease of life.

For three years, a homeless man named, Victor Hubbard, battling mental illness, stood at the same street corner day in and day out. Hundreds of people would drive past wondering what his story must be, until one day, Ginger Sprouse, decided to stop by and ask him.

Facebook/This is Victor

When Sprouse approached Victor last December, she learned that he stood on a street corner waiting and hoping to reunite with his mother who abandoned him.

That's when Sprouse set up a Facebook page called 'This is Victor' to spread the word. Since then, there's been no turning back. The Facebook page has garnered 29,000 followers.

Thousands of people have volunteered to help Victor start a new life, along with Sprouse, who helped him wash clothes, set up appointments with mental health experts. She also managed to get him a job in her own company called Art of Meal as a chef.

"We have Victor in a warm, safe place, he has plenty of new clothes, food, and a brand new bike. He has been seen by a doctor and our wonderful Webster Fire Department is overseeing his medication. We have lined up a dentist and eye doctor." wrote Sprouse.

Sprouse also set up a GoFundMe page to help raise funds for Victor. The page has raised over $22,427 in two months. Since setting the Facebook page and GoFundMe pages, Victor has been able to get in touch with his uncle and more recently he was reunited with his mother.

Don't Miss 490 SHARES 2.5 K SHARES 19.3 K SHARES 18 K SHARES 15.2 K SHARES

"If you want to meet someone who is eternally optimistic, positive and humble go visit him. He will out-bless you every time, wrote an overwhelmed Sprouse on the GoFundMe page.

All it takes is a little bit of compassion to bring a change in the lives of those who need it the most.