Financially Fit
Financially Fit


The elections are across France and in its overseas territories; there are 45.7 million registered voters. The vast majority of voting is by paper ballot, counted by hand: There is no electronic voting and very few voting machines. Campaign spending is limited, and equal media exposure is enforced.

Photo

Who is running?

Only a few of the candidates are considered serious contenders:

■ François Fillon, a conservative from the center-right Republican party.

■ Benoît Hamon, of the mainstream left-wing Socialist Party, who has dropped to single digits in the polls.

■ Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right National Front.

■ Emmanuel Macron, an independent centrist.

■ Jean-Luc Mélenchon, a hard-left candidate who created the France Unbowed movement.

Of the candidates, Ms. Le Pen has arguably drawn the most attention from journalists, because of her hard-line stance on immigration, her grim warning that a declining France is losing its identity and her party’s record with Jews and Muslims, among other communities.

Personal integrity and political corruption have become major issues: Mr. Fillon is enmeshed in an embezzlement scandal, and Ms. Le Pen has faced questions about her use of her position as a member of the European Parliament. These controversies have given lesser-known candidates the opportunity to jab and mock their counterparts during live debates.

Mr. Macron and Ms. Le Pen are slightly ahead, but the four front-runners are neck-and-neck in the latest polls, creating uncertainty about who will make it to the runoff. Up to a third of possible voters, according to the latest polls, are still undecided.

Photo

Why does France matter?

A nation of 67 million, France is the world’s sixth-largest economy, one of five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and a nuclear power. It is one of the oldest allies of the United States, having helped secure American independence from Britain. It is the world’s most visited country. Since the French Revolution, the nation has often been seen as a beacon of democratic ideals.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

French foreign policy could change significantly if one of the candidates who favor friendlier ties with Russia or weakening the European Union is elected.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

How have international events influenced the election?

■ Britain's decision to leave the European Union has spurred talk of a similar move in France, sometimes called a “Frexit.” Two of the main candidates, Mr. Mélenchon and Ms. Le Pen, want, for very different reasons, to renegotiate France’s place in the bloc. Should negotiations fail, both have said that they would organize referendums on a departure from the bloc or from the euro currency zone.

■ The election of President Trump gave a boost to the candidacy of Ms. Le Pen: It suggested that such an upset was possible in France, and the National Front hopes to ride a similar wave of discontent about immigration and globalization. But some of Mr. Trump’s actions, like the one to launch airstrikes in Syria, have led Ms. Le Pen to distance herself from him.

■ Questions have also been raised about whether Russia is trying to influence the results.

When will we know the results?

The French news media cannot publish results before the last polling stations close at 8 p.m. Because the four front-runners are polling so closely, the winners might not become clear until later. Official results will be available on the website of the French Interior Ministry.

What happens next?

A televised debate between the two finalists is scheduled for May 3, four days before the runoff on May 7. The winner of the runoff will take office by May 14.