Hawaii Judge Blocks Trump's Revised Travel Ban

Hawaii Judge Blocks Trump's Revised Travel Ban U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson issued a nationwide temporary restraining order Wednesday that halted President Donald Trump's revised executive order on immigration and refugees. Photo: Getty This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. ... leads to the ones ... it hurt in this lesson this morning with the BBC and in black and white ... in his order ... he was very focused on ... a lot of what ... would have been said before announces it has been to security ... my advice to the concert ... a lot of ... neutral language and asking everybody to pretend that it ... he just wasn't good ... to get even one step further working he noted ... that he ... did it in the decision that can actually appears that the ... fact that there were such great pains to make the ... language more neutral ... actually served as a pretext he actually still there that they were trying even harder ... to see who ... of mass what was ... a religious cannabis ... this the excess ... weight ... what if I choose to upload only ... we're going to take the case as far as it needs to go to all the way up to the Supreme Court ...

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

... leads to the ones ... it hurt in this lesson this morning with the BBC and in black and white ... in his order ... he was very focused on ... a lot of what ... would have been said before announces it has been to security ... my advice to the concert ... a lot of ... neutral language and asking everybody to pretend that it ... he just wasn't good ... to get even one step further working he noted ... that he ... did it in the decision that can actually appears that the ... fact that there were such great pains to make the ... language more neutral ... actually served as a pretext he actually still there that they were trying even harder ... to see who ... of mass what was ... a religious cannabis ... this the excess ... weight ... what if I choose to upload only ... we're going to take the case as far as it needs to go to all the way up to the Supreme Court ...