Tech Group to Trump: U.S. Can’t Take On China Alone
Tech Group to Trump: U.S. Can’t Take On China Alone
President Donald Trump is right–and wrong–on China, according to a new report by a leading technology think tank. While Mr. Trump is correct that Beijing’s disregard of global trade rules threatens U.S. economic and national security, it would be a mistake for the U.S. to try to take on China alone, argues the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonpartisan, nonprofit group based in Washington. Following decades of “unrelenting mercantilism” in which China sought global dominance across various high-tech industries, the country is no longer as economically dependent on the U.S., according to the ITIF’s report, published Thursday.  As a result, the U.S. no longer has sufficient leverage to address the problem and should instead seek to lead a coalition of nations including Australia, Canada, Germany, Japan, South Korea, the U.K. and the European Union, to take on China, the report advised. The countries could even plan a “G-19” meeting excluding China to map out their game plan, said the ITIF, run by Robert D. Atkinson. Similarly, it said, Congress needs to think globally and increase efforts to work with legislatures of major trading partners to counter China.  The report warned the Trump administration, which has announced plans to press Japan, Germany and other nations with which the U.S. has large trade deficits, to keep its eye on the ball: China.  “Trump administration trade policy complaints should be focused first and foremost on China, not on other nations such as Mexico, Germany, and others who may run trade surpluses with America, but are generally playing by the rules and should be our natural allies in this confrontation with China, not antagonists,” it said.  Chinese President Xi Jinping has repeatedly sought to portray his country, the world’s second-biggest economy, as a benevolent power determined to uphold an international order that has boosted global prosperity. “Pursuing protectionism is just like locking one’s self in a dark room. Wind and rain may be kept outside, but so are light and air,” said Mr. Xi in Davos, Switzerland, at the annual World Economic Forum in January. “No one will emerge as a winner in a trade war ,”  he said, as Western leaders increasingly question the benefits of globalization.  In its report, ITIF called the comments “wonderful spin, worthy of the best New York public relations firm…What President Xi means by a trade war is another nation challenging unbridled Chinese economic aggression.”  Premier Li Keqiang said at the annual meeting of the National People’s Congress, China’s parliament, in early March that Beijing continues to promote free trade and investment. “China’s door is going to keep on opening wider,” he told lawmakers. In a commentary over the weekend, China’s official Xinhua News Agency said foreign companies were raising issues of unfairness because earlier preferential treatment they benefited from is gradually being repealed, putting them on a level playing field with their Chinese counterparts. “Global industry leaders have reasons to be afraid of eroding their competitive edge as the rise of Chinese tech firms will break their monopolies on technology,” Xinhua said.  The ITIF report recommended to Mr. Trump and Congress a wide array of specific trade and economic policies aimed at hemming in China.  The U.S. government should create a National Industrial Intelligence Council to study the long-term implications of other nations’ economic development strategies, especially China’s, the ITIF said, adding that it had yet to see the U.S. government take concrete steps to counter “Made in China 2025,” Beijing’s long-term manufacturing plan unveiled nearly two years ago.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce on Thursday released its own report criticizing the plan called “Made in China 2025: Global Ambitions Built on Local Protections.” The plan “raises significant concerns not only for China’s domestic economy but its economic partners,” wrote the U.S. business lobby. It “aims to leverage the power of the state to alter competitive dynamics in global markets in industries core to economic competitiveness,” the Chamber added.  ITIF also recommended bolstering the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative by creating an “Office of Competitiveness” within it, and increasing the USTR’s presence in both China and Europe to better coordinate on issues related to China.  The U.S. should also step up its scrutiny of surging Chinese investment through the interagency Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., which reviews foreign acquisitions of U.S. assets for national-security concerns. Overhauling CFIUS, as the group is known, is something both Congress and the Trump administration have said they want to do . The CFIUS chairmanship should be transferred from the Treasury Department, which tends to support most foreign direct investment, to another department–perhaps Commerce–and the body needs more time, people and money to conduct its reviews, said the ITIF.  U.S. officials should also build on the previous administration’s growing use of the World Trade Organization’s dispute-settlement mechanism to bring more trade cases against China, including ones related to transparency, said the ITIF.  “Multiple USTR reports show that China’s repeated failures to be transparent are part of a consistent pattern to avoid scrutiny for discriminatory and trade-distorting regulations rules and other measures involving subsidies, preferences, anti-competitive government practices, etc.,” the think tank said. –Kate O’Keeffe and Mark Magnier China China-U.S. Donald Trump real time economics Think Tank trade deficit U.S U.S.-China relations Xi Jinping     Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print

The U.S. no longer has sufficient leverage to address problems tied to trade with China on its own, a technology think tank says in a new report. Photo: Reuters

President Donald Trump is right–and wrong–on China, according to a new report by a leading technology think tank.

While Mr. Trump is correct that Beijing’s disregard of global trade rules threatens U.S. economic and national security, it would be a mistake for the U.S. to try to take on China alone, argues the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonpartisan, nonprofit group based in Washington.

Following decades of “unrelenting mercantilism” in which China sought global dominance across various high-tech industries, the country is no longer as economically dependent on the U.S., according to the ITIF’s report, published Thursday.

As a result, the U.S. no longer has sufficient leverage to address the problem and should instead seek to lead a coalition of nations including Australia, Canada, Germany, Japan, South Korea, the U.K. and the European Union, to take on China, the report advised.

The countries could even plan a “G-19” meeting excluding China to map out their game plan, said the ITIF, run by Robert D. Atkinson. Similarly, it said, Congress needs to think globally and increase efforts to work with legislatures of major trading partners to counter China.

The report warned the Trump administration, which has announced plans to press Japan, Germany and other nations with which the U.S. has large trade deficits, to keep its eye on the ball: China.

“Trump administration trade policy complaints should be focused first and foremost on China, not on other nations such as Mexico, Germany, and others who may run trade surpluses with America, but are generally playing by the rules and should be our natural allies in this confrontation with China, not antagonists,” it said.

Chinese President Xi Jinping has repeatedly sought to portray his country, the world’s second-biggest economy, as a benevolent power determined to uphold an international order that has boosted global prosperity. “Pursuing protectionism is just like locking one’s self in a dark room. Wind and rain may be kept outside, but so are light and air,” said Mr. Xi in Davos, Switzerland, at the annual World Economic Forum in January. “No one will emerge as a winner in a trade war,” he said, as Western leaders increasingly question the benefits of globalization.

In its report, ITIF called the comments “wonderful spin, worthy of the best New York public relations firm…What President Xi means by a trade war is another nation challenging unbridled Chinese economic aggression.”

Premier Li Keqiang said at the annual meeting of the National People’s Congress, China’s parliament, in early March that Beijing continues to promote free trade and investment. “China’s door is going to keep on opening wider,” he told lawmakers. In a commentary over the weekend, China’s official Xinhua News Agency said foreign companies were raising issues of unfairness because earlier preferential treatment they benefited from is gradually being repealed, putting them on a level playing field with their Chinese counterparts. “Global industry leaders have reasons to be afraid of eroding their competitive edge as the rise of Chinese tech firms will break their monopolies on technology,” Xinhua said.

The ITIF report recommended to Mr. Trump and Congress a wide array of specific trade and economic policies aimed at hemming in China.

The U.S. government should create a National Industrial Intelligence Council to study the long-term implications of other nations’ economic development strategies, especially China’s, the ITIF said, adding that it had yet to see the U.S. government take concrete steps to counter “Made in China 2025,” Beijing’s long-term manufacturing plan unveiled nearly two years ago.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce on Thursday released its own report criticizing the plan called “Made in China 2025: Global Ambitions Built on Local Protections.” The plan “raises significant concerns not only for China’s domestic economy but its economic partners,” wrote the U.S. business lobby. It “aims to leverage the power of the state to alter competitive dynamics in global markets in industries core to economic competitiveness,” the Chamber added.

ITIF also recommended bolstering the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative by creating an “Office of Competitiveness” within it, and increasing the USTR’s presence in both China and Europe to better coordinate on issues related to China.

The U.S. should also step up its scrutiny of surging Chinese investment through the interagency Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., which reviews foreign acquisitions of U.S. assets for national-security concerns. Overhauling CFIUS, as the group is known, is something both Congress and the Trump administration have said they want to do. The CFIUS chairmanship should be transferred from the Treasury Department, which tends to support most foreign direct investment, to another department–perhaps Commerce–and the body needs more time, people and money to conduct its reviews, said the ITIF.

U.S. officials should also build on the previous administration’s growing use of the World Trade Organization’s dispute-settlement mechanism to bring more trade cases against China, including ones related to transparency, said the ITIF.

“Multiple USTR reports show that China’s repeated failures to be transparent are part of a consistent pattern to avoid scrutiny for discriminatory and trade-distorting regulations rules and other measures involving subsidies, preferences, anti-competitive government practices, etc.,” the think tank said.

–Kate O’Keeffe and Mark Magnier