UFC's Dana White thinks Floyd Mayweather vs. Conor McGregor will happen
White: I think Mayweather-McGregor will happen
White: I think Mayweather-McGregor will happen MMA Bracket - Vote for the best fight of all-time Velasquez: I take my health very seriously Yair Rodriguez getting the opportunity to become a star in the UFC Nelson to meet Volkov at April's UFC Fight Night Anderson Silva asks for rematches against Nick Diaz, Michael Bisping Mayweather taunts McGregor, wants June fight Aldo opens as slight betting favorite over Holloway Edgar-Rodriguez set for UFC 211 What's next for Conor McGregor, Tony Ferguson and the lightweight division? The UFC is in desperate need for some new stars Alvarez set to meet Poirier at UFC 211 in May Ferguson: 'Let's give the crowd what they want' Do 10-10 rounds actually exist in MMA? Woodley retains title with majority decision win Johnson seeks to tie Silva's defense record Nurmagomedov hospitalized; UFC title fight off Budd wins Bellator women's featherweight title UFC's White 'aiming' for GSP-Bisping in July Coenen aims for history as Bellator's inaugural featherweight champion Could McGregor beat Mayweather? Mayweather-McGregor 'an embarrassment' - De La Hoya Who should Georges St-Pierre face in his return fight? Gadelha-Kowalkiewicz to square off at UFC 212 Mike Golic, Adnan Virk and Ryan Clark react to Dana White saying he thinks a Conor McGregor-Floyd Mayweather fight will happen. (2:04) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment MMA columnist for ESPN.com Analyst for "MMA Live" Covered MMA for Las Vegas Sun Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment UFC president Dana White is suddenly optimistic that a proposed boxing match between Floyd Mayweather and Conor McGregor will in fact take place. In an appearance on "Conan" on Wednesday, White said a deal is not yet in place for the potentially lucrative event, but he suggested it might be only a matter of time. "I do think it's going to happen," White told Conan O'Brien. "I think it's going to be a tough deal, because, obviously, there are a lot of egos involved in this deal and a lot of people, so that always makes it tougher. "On the flip side, there's so much money involved, I just don't see how it doesn't happen." Before Wednesday, White had been mostly dismissive of the megafight. In January, he promised an "epic fall" for McGregor, should the Irish star attempt to box without the UFC's permission. McGregor, 28, is the UFC's lightweight champion and remains under exclusive contract. White also compared the fight's likelihood to the possibility of him backing up New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady in the Super Bowl. He has repeatedly referenced how long it took Mayweather to agree to fight Manny Pacquiao, saying it would take even longer for Mayweather to agree to terms with McGregor. The fantasy matchup seemingly continued to inch forward, however. McGregor is currently in the process of settling a legal matter with the Nevada State Athletic Commission, after which he is expected to apply for a boxing license. "A lot of things make this fight intriguing," White said. "Conor McGregor is huge. He's in the prime of his career. Floyd is 40. Floyd has always had problems with southpaws; Conor is a southpaw, and Conor hits hard. When he hits people, they go. Floyd is definitely not knocking him out. That's for sure. "I'm not saying Conor would win this boxing match, but it sure makes it interesting." Mayweather, who retired in 2015 with a professional record of 49-0, recently announced he'd officially come out of retirement to box McGregor. On Wednesday, White shot down reports that the fight has been targeted for June 10 inside T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas. McGregor is currently taking a break as he expects the birth of his first child in May. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Mike Golic, Adnan Virk and Ryan Clark react to Dana White saying he thinks a Conor McGregor-Floyd Mayweather fight will happen. (2:04)

Promotion for McGregor-Mayweather will be off the charts (2:04)

UFC president Dana White is suddenly optimistic that a proposed boxing match between Floyd Mayweather and Conor McGregor will in fact take place.

In an appearance on "Conan" on Wednesday, White said a deal is not yet in place for the potentially lucrative event, but he suggested it might be only a matter of time.

"I do think it's going to happen," White told Conan O'Brien. "I think it's going to be a tough deal, because, obviously, there are a lot of egos involved in this deal and a lot of people, so that always makes it tougher.

"On the flip side, there's so much money involved, I just don't see how it doesn't happen."

Before Wednesday, White had been mostly dismissive of the megafight. In January, he promised an "epic fall" for McGregor, should the Irish star attempt to box without the UFC's permission.

McGregor, 28, is the UFC's lightweight champion and remains under exclusive contract.

White also compared the fight's likelihood to the possibility of him backing up New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady in the Super Bowl. He has repeatedly referenced how long it took Mayweather to agree to fight Manny Pacquiao, saying it would take even longer for Mayweather to agree to terms with McGregor.

The fantasy matchup seemingly continued to inch forward, however. McGregor is currently in the process of settling a legal matter with the Nevada State Athletic Commission, after which he is expected to apply for a boxing license.

"A lot of things make this fight intriguing," White said. "Conor McGregor is huge. He's in the prime of his career. Floyd is 40. Floyd has always had problems with southpaws; Conor is a southpaw, and Conor hits hard. When he hits people, they go. Floyd is definitely not knocking him out. That's for sure.

"I'm not saying Conor would win this boxing match, but it sure makes it interesting."

Mayweather, who retired in 2015 with a professional record of 49-0, recently announced he'd officially come out of retirement to box McGregor.

On Wednesday, White shot down reports that the fight has been targeted for June 10 inside T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas. McGregor is currently taking a break as he expects the birth of his first child in May.