Ben Affleck's Hard-Hitting Post On Battling Alchohol Addiction Shows That The Struggle Is Real
Ben Affleck's Hard-Hitting Post On Battling Alchohol Addiction Shows That The Struggle Is Real
Ben Affleck's Hard-Hitting Post On Battling Alchohol Addiction Shows That The Struggle Is Real actor Ben Affleck made a heartfelt revelation about his alcohol addiction and how he bounced back in life. Affleck wrote a post on FB, where he has listed how he dealt with his alcohol addiction and the steps that he has been taking to battle it sincerely. In his post, Affleck has mentioned how he completed his treatment and how much he's grateful to his family for extending support during his darkest times. Apart from reaching out to his fans, he has also thanked his estranged wife, Jennifer Garner, who was with him when Affleck was going through a tough time. On his official Facebook page, he wrote, 1998. #ThrowbackThursday A post shared by Ben Affleck (@benaffleck) on May 26, 2016 at 12:07pm PDT   “I have completed treatment for alcohol addiction; something I’ve dealt with in the past and will continue to confront. I want to live life to the fullest and be the best father I can be. I want my kids to know there is no shame in getting help when you need it, and to be a source of strength for anyone out there who needs help but is afraid to take the first step. This was the first of many steps being taken towards a positive recovery.” Read his full post here-

Batman actor Ben Affleck made a heartfelt revelation about his alcohol addiction and how he bounced back in life. Affleck wrote a post on FB, where he has listed how he dealt with his alcohol addiction and the steps that he has been taking to battle it sincerely.

In his post, Affleck has mentioned how he completed his treatment and how much he's grateful to his family for extending support during his darkest times.

Pinterest

Apart from reaching out to his fans, he has also thanked his estranged wife, Jennifer Garner, who was with him when Affleck was going through a tough time.

On his official Facebook page, he wrote,

1998. #ThrowbackThursday A post shared by Ben Affleck (@benaffleck) on May 26, 2016 at 12:07pm PDT

“I have completed treatment for alcohol addiction; something I’ve dealt with in the past and will continue to confront. I want to live life to the fullest and be the best father I can be. I want my kids to know there is no shame in getting help when you need it, and to be a source of strength for anyone out there who needs help but is afraid to take the first step. This was the first of many steps being taken towards a positive recovery.”

Read his full post here-

Don't Miss 63.1 K SHARES 16.8 K SHARES 26.1 K SHARES 25.8 K SHARES 52.8 K SHARES