CCTV captures final movements of British backpacker killed in Goa

in Delhi    CCTV footage has been released showing a dual Irish-British national on the day before her death in the Indian state of Goa. The body of Danielle McLaughlin was found naked and severely beaten in a field between the popular Palolem and Agonda beaches in the south of the state on Tuesday morning. She was found “lying in a pool of blood without clothes and there were injuries on the head and face”, Sammy Tavares, the deputy superintendent of Canacona police, told local media. The footage released by police on Thursday showed McLaughlin, 28, walking before nightfall on Monday with a man police identified as the accused murderer Vikat Bhagat. Police said Bhagat had confessed to the murder but denied sexually assaulting McLaughlin, originally from County Donegal. Tavares told the Guardian on Thursday that a court had granted police permission to hold Bhagat for seven days to complete their investigation. “Then we will submit a charge sheet and the case will go on,” he said. McLaughlin had met Bhagat on a previous trip to Goa and been “seen with this guy from the afternoon of the 13th”, he said. The 24-year-old, described by locals as a gang member and petty criminal, was arrested within four hours of police being alerted to the discovery of McLaughlin’s body on Tuesday morning. “On further investigations, he confessed of having [been] involved in the gruesome murder of the innocent lady,” he said. McLaughlin’s clothing was found near the crime scene on Wednesday and Taveres said the investigation was now focused on finding her mobile phone. A postmortem was being conducted in the Goan capital, Panjim, on Thursday and the results were expected to be known by the evening, Taveres said. The doctor’s report would be used to determine whether McLaughlin had been sexually assaulted. It is understood that British and Irish consular officials were on hand for the medical examination. A vigil was held on Wednesday evening near where McLaughlin’s body was found and was attended by about 200 locals and tourists, who lit candles and laid wreaths and flowers on the grass. Some attendees carried a banner reading: “Justice for Danielle”. But criticism of the police handling of the case emerged after a British national living in the area was asked to help identify McLaughlin. Saskia Gall said there had been significant “contamination of evidence” at the crime scene. “We went out to the field and there were about 30 or more men standing next to the body taking photos and watching,” she said. She also questioned police claims that McLaughlin had been found in a pool of blood. “There are a tonne of holes in the police story and I know for a fact this is not the end of it,” she said. Goan police are under pressure to investigate the case transparently after being accused of overlooking evidence in the death nine years ago of British teenager Scarlett Keeling. The 15-year-old’s death in the north of the state was initially ruled an accidental drowning, before pressure from the girl’s mother forced a second autopsy. It revealed evidence of drugs in her system, more than 50 cuts and bruises as well as evidence of sexual assault. Two men charged with her murder were acquitted in September, but Indian authorities are appealing against the judgment .  India   South and Central Asia   news

CCTV footage has been released showing a dual Irish-British national on the day before her death in the Indian state of Goa.

The body of Danielle McLaughlin was found naked and severely beaten in a field between the popular Palolem and Agonda beaches in the south of the state on Tuesday morning.

She was found “lying in a pool of blood without clothes and there were injuries on the head and face”, Sammy Tavares, the deputy superintendent of Canacona police, told local media.

Tributes paid to British backpacker found dead in Indian tourist resort Read more

The footage released by police on Thursday showed McLaughlin, 28, walking before nightfall on Monday with a man police identified as the accused murderer Vikat Bhagat.

Police said Bhagat had confessed to the murder but denied sexually assaulting McLaughlin, originally from County Donegal.

Tavares told the Guardian on Thursday that a court had granted police permission to hold Bhagat for seven days to complete their investigation. “Then we will submit a charge sheet and the case will go on,” he said.



Two men in Scarlett Keeling murder case in India face court again Read more

McLaughlin had met Bhagat on a previous trip to Goa and been “seen with this guy from the afternoon of the 13th”, he said.

The 24-year-old, described by locals as a gang member and petty criminal, was arrested within four hours of police being alerted to the discovery of McLaughlin’s body on Tuesday morning. “On further investigations, he confessed of having [been] involved in the gruesome murder of the innocent lady,” he said.

McLaughlin’s clothing was found near the crime scene on Wednesday and Taveres said the investigation was now focused on finding her mobile phone.

A postmortem was being conducted in the Goan capital, Panjim, on Thursday and the results were expected to be known by the evening, Taveres said.

The doctor’s report would be used to determine whether McLaughlin had been sexually assaulted. It is understood that British and Irish consular officials were on hand for the medical examination.

A vigil was held on Wednesday evening near where McLaughlin’s body was found and was attended by about 200 locals and tourists, who lit candles and laid wreaths and flowers on the grass. Some attendees carried a banner reading: “Justice for Danielle”.



But criticism of the police handling of the case emerged after a British national living in the area was asked to help identify McLaughlin. Saskia Gall said there had been significant “contamination of evidence” at the crime scene.

“We went out to the field and there were about 30 or more men standing next to the body taking photos and watching,” she said.

She also questioned police claims that McLaughlin had been found in a pool of blood. “There are a tonne of holes in the police story and I know for a fact this is not the end of it,” she said.

Goan police are under pressure to investigate the case transparently after being accused of overlooking evidence in the death nine years ago of British teenager Scarlett Keeling.

The 15-year-old’s death in the north of the state was initially ruled an accidental drowning, before pressure from the girl’s mother forced a second autopsy. It revealed evidence of drugs in her system, more than 50 cuts and bruises as well as evidence of sexual assault.

Two men charged with her murder were acquitted in September, but Indian authorities are appealing against the judgment.