Justin Trudeau Brought Ivanka Trump to a Broadway Musical About Helping Foreigners
Justin Trudeau Brought Ivanka Trump to a Broadway Musical About Helping Foreigners
From ELLE UK While Canadians normally have a reputation for being super nice, it turns out Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also knows how to be shady AF. On Wednesday night, the Canadian Prime Minister brought first daughter Ivanka Trump to the new Broadway musical " Come From Away " - a show all about the importance of helping foreigners at times when they need it the most. As the flawlessly points out, Trudeau's choice of event is "rich with symbolism," given his vastly different stance on immigrants and refugees compared to U.S. President Donald Trump. The first daughter - who many previously speculated might have somewhat of a crush on Trudeau - sat between the prime minister and American ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, during the show. Prior to the start of the musical, which neither of them had yet seen, Trudeau took the stage to offer a few remarks, starting by praising the script and the lessons that can gleaned from it. As the show's website explains, "Come From Away" follows the story of the 6,579 passengers who were stranded in a small town in Newfoundland after their planes were diverted due to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Rather than leave thousands of people to fend for themselves, the locals of the town fed and housed all of them - something Trudeau praised. "The world gets to see what it is to lean on each other and be there for each other through the darkest times," he said , before going on to throw shade like no other. "There is no relationship quite like the friendship between Canada and the United States. This story, this amazing show, is very much about that, and it's about friendship as well." Trump has not yet offered her review of the musical - but it's fair to say Trudeau enjoyed it very much. 20 Low Stress Jobs That Pay More Than £50,000 A Year Emma Watson Used To Do This Really Embarrassing Thing While Filming 'Harry Potter' A 'Slush' Facial Is Apparently the Secret to Kendall and Kylie's Glowing Skin

From ELLE UK

While Canadians normally have a reputation for being super nice, it turns out Prime Minister Justin Trudeau also knows how to be shady AF.

On Wednesday night, the Canadian Prime Minister brought first daughter Ivanka Trump to the new Broadway musical "Come From Away" - a show all about the importance of helping foreigners at times when they need it the most. As the New York Times flawlessly points out, Trudeau's choice of event is "rich with symbolism," given his vastly different stance on immigrants and refugees compared to U.S. President Donald Trump.

The first daughter - who many previously speculated might have somewhat of a crush on Trudeau - sat between the prime minister and American ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, during the show. Prior to the start of the musical, which neither of them had yet seen, Trudeau took the stage to offer a few remarks, starting by praising the script and the lessons that can gleaned from it.

As the show's website explains, "Come From Away" follows the story of the 6,579 passengers who were stranded in a small town in Newfoundland after their planes were diverted due to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Rather than leave thousands of people to fend for themselves, the locals of the town fed and housed all of them - something Trudeau praised.

"The world gets to see what it is to lean on each other and be there for each other through the darkest times," he said, before going on to throw shade like no other. "There is no relationship quite like the friendship between Canada and the United States. This story, this amazing show, is very much about that, and it's about friendship as well."

Trump has not yet offered her review of the musical - but it's fair to say Trudeau enjoyed it very much.

Follow Gina on Twitter.

You Might Also Like