'Jhansi Ki Raani' Star Ulka Gupta Faced Racism At The Age Of 7 And It's Shocking
'Jhansi Ki Raani' Star Ulka Gupta Faced Racism At The Age Of 7 And It's Shocking
'Jhansi Ki Raani' Star Ulka Gupta Faced Racism At The Age Of 7 And It's Shocking Pay disparity, sexism, and racism are three most prevalent setbacks that still exist in the entertainment industry. Many actors have time and again spoken about their bitter experiences and how they were subjected to blatant racism. But who would have thought that child actors have undergone this too? In a rather shocking confession, Ulka Gupta, who rose to fame with her powerful character in , confessed about her initial years in the entertainment industry. Not many know that Ulka's debut show was  Resham Dankh, which she did at the age of 7. Unfortunately, the show went off the air in just a few months because of low TRPs. In an interview with DailyBhaskar, Ulka spoke about how she faced racism at the age of 7. She was quoted in the report saying, "I was very passionate about acting but surprisingly at the very young age, I came across the dark side of our industry. After wrapping up Resham Dankh, my father and I used to go for the auditions on a daily basis. And every time, I was disappointed to see that the producers are looking for a fair girl. According to them, fair girl represents an up market girl." She also revealed that she faced several rejections, because of her complexion. She added, This is really sad. If an industry prefers your complexion over your talent, its future surely can't be bright (And, fair).

Pay disparity, sexism, and racism are three most prevalent setbacks that still exist in the entertainment industry. Many actors have time and again spoken about their bitter experiences and how they were subjected to blatant racism.

But who would have thought that child actors have undergone this too? In a rather shocking confession, Ulka Gupta, who rose to fame with her powerful character in Jhansi Ki Rani, confessed about her initial years in the entertainment industry.

TellyChakkar

Not many know that Ulka's debut show was Resham Dankh, which she did at the age of 7. Unfortunately, the show went off the air in just a few months because of low TRPs. In an interview with DailyBhaskar, Ulka spoke about how she faced racism at the age of 7.

She was quoted in the report saying,

Sulekha

"I was very passionate about acting but surprisingly at the very young age, I came across the dark side of our industry. After wrapping up Resham Dankh, my father and I used to go for the auditions on a daily basis. And every time, I was disappointed to see that the producers are looking for a fair girl. According to them, fair girl represents an up market girl."

She also revealed that she faced several rejections, because of her complexion. She added,

Zee TV

"I was rejected so many times just for the sake of my dark skin. In fact, due to my complexion, I got a role of Saloni’s daughter in Saat Phere. Since, that show focused on the girl’s courage beyond her dark complexion; the casting directors finalised me. Otherwise, I was rejected most of the time. Surprisingly, after so many years, my casting agent still gets few requirements stating, ‘need a fair complexion girl’. Honestly, I have stopped going for such auditions. Fair hone se koi upmarket nahi dikhta. I want my talent to speak up for me and not the color of my skin."

This is really sad. If an industry prefers your complexion over your talent, its future surely can't be bright (And, fair).