Roger Gale MP accused of sexism after referring to his female staff as 'girls' while defending employing family members
Roger Gale MP accused of sexism after referring to his female staff as 'girls' while defending employing family members
oger Gale MP has inadvertently caused a sexism row by referring to female staff in his office as "girls". He trended on Twitter as people expressed their outrage while listening to the Radio 4 Today programme. The Thanet North MP was defending hiring family members as he made the controversial comment. People on Twitter spoke of how angered they were, saying he was a "misogynist", that it was a throwback to the 1960's, and one listener even said she was hoarse from yelling about it. One angered listener tweeted: "Can someone tell Roger Gale that his employees are not  ". Another raged: "Repellant and arrogant Roger Gale MP referring 2 his female staff as "girls" on BBCRadio4 r4today & justifying nepotism by comparing w BBC". Highly irritated by @Conservatives MP Sir Roger Gale referring to women working in his office as 'girls' on @BBCRadio4 this morning "Sir Roger Gale referring to the women in his office as "girls" - why no challenge to this inappropriate and sexist term?" asked one listener. Roger Gale employs "girls" at the taxpayers' expense. Can he not find any grown ups? #r4today Con MP Roger Gale on @BBCr4today must stop calling women working in his office 'girls'. He's either employing underage staff or needs advice Whoa. On BBC Radio 4, MP Sir Roger Gale refers to the women who work in his constituency office as "the girls." What is this, the 1960s? nd another said: "Roger Gale on r4today really has shown the worst of politics this morning. A frightening combination of sexism, ignorance and nepotism". #r4today Roger Gale's praise of his wife and his 'team of girls' did not do him favours and gave me a sore throat yelling! Pompous. Sir Roger Gale MP, I don't care if you employ your well qualified wife but calling your office staff 'girls' is downright offensive #r4today r Gale has previously sung the praises of his wife, who has worked in his office since 1983. "It will be incredibly damaging if we go down this route," Sir Roger told the Press Association. "Superficially, this is an easy hit for anybody wanting to show they are doing something. Actually, it is crass and they will live to regret it - and so will the House and its MPs." he benefits of employing a spouse are "enormous", said Sir Roger. "Obviously, I trust her implicitly, she knows what I think and why I think it and constituents can call on her whenever I'm not around. "She probably does 60 to 70 hours work a week, including most of Saturday, and I can call on her any time day or night. I couldn't do that with an assistant recruited through an advert." ir Roger Gale's wife, Suzy, told The Telegraph that the critics could be correct, but her husband doesn't mean anything by it, often treats those who work in the office to buns - and staff don't mind being referred to as "girls". She said: "Possibly you are right, I am 70, but we have always been referred to "the girls" and we really do like it.  Roger treats the office staff to buns on a regular basis, and we also like that! "We are a  very  happy and dedicated working team I can assure you. "Do people not have anything more important to worry about than this?!"

Roger Gale MP has inadvertently caused a sexism row by referring to female staff in his office as "girls".

He trended on Twitter as people expressed their outrage while listening to the Radio 4 Today programme.

The Thanet North MP was defending hiring family members as he made the controversial comment.

People on Twitter spoke of how angered they were, saying he was a "misogynist", that it was a throwback to the 1960's, and one listener even said she was hoarse from yelling about it.

One angered listener tweeted: "Can someone tell Roger Gale that his employees are # women not # girls # hopefully".