Hawaii judge puts Trump's revised travel ban on hold
Hawaii judge puts Trump's revised travel ban on hold
Shares               A federal judge in Hawaii on Wednesday issued a nationwide temporary restraining order on President Donald Trump 's revised travel ban, dealing another body blow to one of the president's signature domestic security initiatives. U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson heard arguments in a Hawaii federal court Wednesday and issued the ruling soon after, finding that that there is “significant and unrebutted evidence of religious animus driving the promulgation" of the new order and its predecessor. His ruling prevents core provisions of the executive order, affecting refugees and citizens of six predominantly Muslim countries, from going into effect as scheduled on Thursday. At a rally in Nashville Wednesday night, President Trump slammed the decision as "an unprecedented judicial overreach."  And the Department of Justice said in a statement it "strongly disagrees with the federal district court's ruling, which is flawed both in reasoning and in scope. The President's Executive Order falls squarely within his lawful authority in seeking to protect our Nation's security, and the Department will continue to defend this Executive Order in the courts." In arguing for the restraining order, the state of Hawaii alleged that the new executive order "began life as a Muslim ban," and that the statements of President Trump and his advisers "provide direct evidence of the Executive Order’s discriminatory motivations." "The March 6, 2017 Executive Order was motivated by animus and a desire to discriminate on the basis of religion and/or national origin, nationality, or alienage," the state contended. Nihad Awad, the national executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said in a statement, "We welcome this order as confirmation of the strength of our nation's system of checks and balances that prevents one branch of government from violating the Constitution or the rights of any vulnerable group. We urge the Trump administration to scrap this Muslim ban entirely because it disrespects both the Constitution and America's longstanding tradition of religious freedom and inclusion." Wednesday's ruling drew a mixed reaction from other legal experts. Peter Margulies, an expert in national security law at the Roger Williams University School of Law, disputed the judge's reasoning. In part, Margulies said, Watson's opinion "confuses campaign speeches with the proof of intent that the Supreme Court has required." He added that "the initial executive order had due process problems and the government has dealt with those problems." But others praised Wednesday's ruling. Hiroshi Motomura, a professor of immigration and citizenship law at the UCLA School of Law, said that the new order still runs afoul of the 1st Amendment's Establishment Clause, which prevents the government from discriminating against a particular religion. "Since the case law is clear that a law can violate the Establishment Clause based on its intent and origins even if the law doesn’t expressly name a religion as favored or disfavored, it makes eminent sense that the new ban is just as vulnerable to the Establishment Clause challenge as the Jan. 27 version was," said Motomura. "The intent and origins haven’t changed." Anil Kalhan, an immigration law professor at the Drexel University Thomas R. Kline School of Law, echoed that sentiment. "The legal standard is whether there is religious based motivation. There's so much evidence of this," Kalhan said. "The court would have to be an ostrich to deny that the new order emerged from the same context as the first one." The state of Hawaii also argued the ban would harm its tourism industry, as well as its ability to recruit foreign students and workers. The Trump administration had argued that the plaintiffs were trying "to impugn the order using campaign statements” and that the court should not look beyond the stated purpose of the revised order, which had been substantially revised to exempt legal residents and current visa holders. The administration asserted that statements made during the campaign by Trump and his surrogates were "irrelevant" and urged the judge not to look for "secret motives" of government officials in reaching his decision. Judge Watson, who was appointed to the bench by President Obama in 2012, issued a thorough rebuke of the administration's position. "The remarkable facts at issue here require no such impermissible inquiry," Watson writes, referencing then-candidate Trump's call for "a complete shutdown" of Muslim immigration and recent comments by Trump senior adviser Stephen Miller that the new order would result in "the same basic policy outcome for the country" as the first, now revoked, order. "These plainly-worded statements, made in the months leading up to and contemporaneous with the signing of the Executive Order, and, in many cases, made by the Executive himself, betray the Executive Order’s stated secular purpose," Watson wrote. "Any reasonable, objective observer would conclude…that the stated secular purpose of the Executive Order is, at the very least, 'secondary to a religious objective' of temporarily suspending the entry of Muslims." Watson's order capped off a whirlwind day of court hearings around the country, with plaintiffs in Maryland and Washington State also seeking to block the ban before it goes into effect. The attorney general of Washington State, Bob Ferguson, whose lawsuit resulted in the injunction preventing implementation of the first version of the travel ban, tonight praised the Hawaii order as "fantastic news."  "Today's rapidly evolving events show the strength of our growing coalition, from the eastern seaboard to the Hawaiian islands." -BF  "Today’s rapidly evolving events show the strength of our growing coalition, from the eastern seaboard to the Hawaiian islands,” Ferguson wrote on Twitter.  Shares                  Hawaii judge puts Trump's revised travel ban on hold   Trump: Ruling against revised travel ban is 'unprecedented judicial overreach'   Global stocks gain, US dollar weaker after Fed hike   How Russian agents allegedly directed massive Yahoo cyberattack   Trump puts brakes on Obama-era auto emissions regulations   High-profile Twitter accounts hacked over Turkey-Holland spat   EPA may roll back chemical plant safety rules   White House meeting on Saudi underscores kingdom's influence   Texas congressman tells town hall attendee to 'shut up'   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Author who penned dating profile for husband has died   Senate votes to approve Trump's picks for key security posts   Damascus suicide bombings kill dozens, Syrian TV reports   Dutch voting in election seen as barometer of populism   Ryan's gambit: Second health care bill to woo the reluctant   Lone lawmaker crusades against the death penalty in Alabama   Tillerson shuns all but conservative website on Asia tour   Trump 'probably not the source' of leaked tax return, journalist who received document says   How the GOP health care plan would affect women   CBO: 14 million more uninsured next year under GOP plan   Dramatic audio captures air traffic controllers helping pilot land with broken throttle   McDonald's worker rescues unconscious cop at drive-through   Obama picks North Carolina men, UConn women in NCAA tourney   How a Mississippi woman found biological father after 32 years   US women's hockey players threaten boycott over wages   11 bikers sue over arrests after 2015 Texas bar shootout   Paris Jackson says she was Michael's 'favorite' child   Aloha! Barack Obama visits Hawaii

A federal judge in Hawaii on Wednesday issued a nationwide temporary restraining order on President Donald Trump's revised travel ban, dealing another body blow to one of the president's signature domestic security initiatives.

U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson heard arguments in a Hawaii federal court Wednesday and issued the ruling soon after, finding that that there is “significant and unrebutted evidence of religious animus driving the promulgation" of the new order and its predecessor.

His ruling prevents core provisions of the executive order, affecting refugees and citizens of six predominantly Muslim countries, from going into effect as scheduled on Thursday.

At a rally in Nashville Wednesday night, President Trump slammed the decision as "an unprecedented judicial overreach."

And the Department of Justice said in a statement it "strongly disagrees with the federal district court's ruling, which is flawed both in reasoning and in scope. The President's Executive Order falls squarely within his lawful authority in seeking to protect our Nation's security, and the Department will continue to defend this Executive Order in the courts."

In arguing for the restraining order, the state of Hawaii alleged that the new executive order "began life as a Muslim ban," and that the statements of President Trump and his advisers "provide direct evidence of the Executive Order’s discriminatory motivations."

"The March 6, 2017 Executive Order was motivated by animus and a desire to discriminate on the basis of religion and/or national origin, nationality, or alienage," the state contended.

Nihad Awad, the national executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said in a statement, "We welcome this order as confirmation of the strength of our nation's system of checks and balances that prevents one branch of government from violating the Constitution or the rights of any vulnerable group. We urge the Trump administration to scrap this Muslim ban entirely because it disrespects both the Constitution and America's longstanding tradition of religious freedom and inclusion."

Wednesday's ruling drew a mixed reaction from other legal experts.

Peter Margulies, an expert in national security law at the Roger Williams University School of Law, disputed the judge's reasoning.

In part, Margulies said, Watson's opinion "confuses campaign speeches with the proof of intent that the Supreme Court has required." He added that "the initial executive order had due process problems and the government has dealt with those problems."

But others praised Wednesday's ruling.

Hiroshi Motomura, a professor of immigration and citizenship law at the UCLA School of Law, said that the new order still runs afoul of the 1st Amendment's Establishment Clause, which prevents the government from discriminating against a particular religion.

"Since the case law is clear that a law can violate the Establishment Clause based on its intent and origins even if the law doesn’t expressly name a religion as favored or disfavored, it makes eminent sense that the new ban is just as vulnerable to the Establishment Clause challenge as the Jan. 27 version was," said Motomura. "The intent and origins haven’t changed."

Anil Kalhan, an immigration law professor at the Drexel University Thomas R. Kline School of Law, echoed that sentiment.

"The legal standard is whether there is religious based motivation. There's so much evidence of this," Kalhan said. "The court would have to be an ostrich to deny that the new order emerged from the same context as the first one."

The state of Hawaii also argued the ban would harm its tourism industry, as well as its ability to recruit foreign students and workers.

The Trump administration had argued that the plaintiffs were trying "to impugn the order using campaign statements” and that the court should not look beyond the stated purpose of the revised order, which had been substantially revised to exempt legal residents and current visa holders.

The administration asserted that statements made during the campaign by Trump and his surrogates were "irrelevant" and urged the judge not to look for "secret motives" of government officials in reaching his decision.

Judge Watson, who was appointed to the bench by President Obama in 2012, issued a thorough rebuke of the administration's position.

"The remarkable facts at issue here require no such impermissible inquiry," Watson writes, referencing then-candidate Trump's call for "a complete shutdown" of Muslim immigration and recent comments by Trump senior adviser Stephen Miller that the new order would result in "the same basic policy outcome for the country" as the first, now revoked, order.

"These plainly-worded statements, made in the months leading up to and contemporaneous with the signing of the Executive Order, and, in many cases, made by the Executive himself, betray the Executive Order’s stated secular purpose," Watson wrote. "Any reasonable, objective observer would conclude…that the stated secular purpose of the Executive Order is, at the very least, 'secondary to a religious objective' of temporarily suspending the entry of Muslims."

Watson's order capped off a whirlwind day of court hearings around the country, with plaintiffs in Maryland and Washington State also seeking to block the ban before it goes into effect.

The attorney general of Washington State, Bob Ferguson, whose lawsuit resulted in the injunction preventing implementation of the first version of the travel ban, tonight praised the Hawaii order as "fantastic news."

"Today's rapidly evolving events show the strength of our growing coalition, from the eastern seaboard to the Hawaiian islands." -BF — WA Attorney General (@AGOWA) March 16, 2017

"Today’s rapidly evolving events show the strength of our growing coalition, from the eastern seaboard to the Hawaiian islands,” Ferguson wrote on Twitter.

ABC News' Sarah Shales and Lauren Pearle contributed to this report.