NFL Free Agency 2017: Which Teams Have Improved the Most so Far?
NFL Free Agency 2017: Which Teams Have Improved the Most so Far?
NFL Free Agency 2017: Which Teams Have Improved the Most so Far? It's not possible to win NFL free agency. That's because there are no snaps taken, no points scored and no games played. There's no championship trophy either. It's March, after all, and the only trophy that matters was handed out over a month ago. Players who hit the open market are typically flawed in some way, though there are always a few exceptions each year. That's why they're given an opportunity to explore free agency at all. Maybe they're aging, or often injured, or needing to silence character concerns, or they only fit a specific scheme. Or worse, their production has simply fallen off. So no, you don't win a trophy for collecting the best players among that group. But teams can still make the right moves to address core needs and do so while inserting the perfect piece to push their roster to another level. Teams can improve in that regard and plant the seeds for a solid offseason blueprint to be built upon in late April at the draft. They can redirect their draft focus by grabbing a much-needed, deep-threat wide receiver, just as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Philadelphia Eagles did in the opening days of free agency. Or they can get creative and move draft picks to give an aging quarterback another weapon, as the New England Patriots did. Free agency is only the beginning of an offseason filled with shuffling, dismantling and tinkering, or all of them at once. Great strides can be made, though, with the right moves at the right value. Let's look deeper at the five teams that have improved the most so far. They were ranked according to how well they achieved the aforementioned goal: To acquire difference-maker players who are solutions to problems and do so at a reasonable cost. 5. Detroit Lions If you're going to take a risk, you do it on T.J. Lang. That was surely the Detroit Lions' thinking when they lured the veteran guard away from division rivals Green Bay Packers. Lang was the second-best guard available in free agency next to Kevin Zeitler. He had to wait on his market to develop for a few days because of an always lethal combination: age and injuries. Lang will enter his age-30 season in 2017, and more importantly, he's coming off recent hip and foot surgeries. So there is risk tied to him, but that's mitigated by the $19 million in guaranteed money the Lions gave Lang, which ranks 10th among guards, according to Spotrac . It's a risk they had to take, too, because Lions quarterback Matthew Stafford has waited far too long for even adequate protection in front of him. Stafford has been sacked 35-plus times in each of the past three seasons and a total of 126 times since 2014 (third among all quarterbacks during that time period ). In 2016, Stafford was forced to wave his magical late-game wand so many times, resulting in a record number of fourth-quarter or overtime comebacks, in part due to that constant pressure. Too often the offense's rhythm would be disrupted, with quality drives derailed. Inserting Lang is the best possible attempt the Lions could make to both plug that hole and rejuvenate a stagnant rushing offense. Lang has allowed only five sacks over the past three seasons, according to Pro Football Focus , and he consistently grades out as one of the best run-blocking guards (PFF has given him a career grade of 47.6). The Lions averaged only 3.7 yards per carry in 2016. The Lions also signed Ricky Wagner, one of the best tackles on the market. They replaced Riley Reiff and Larry Warford with Lang and Wagner and then also made quality low-cost additions on the other side of the ball by signing cornerback D.J. Hayden and middle linebacker Paul Worrilow. The primary aim and hope of the Lions' offseason so far has been to finally provide Stafford with something resembling consistent protection. If that happens, the Lions offense could take a leap forward, and they won't be asked to orchestrate weekly late-game miracles. 4. Philadelphia Eagles Say this with me now: Progress isn't linear. That's true for, well, pretty much everything that requires progress, but especially the learning curve rookie quarterbacks need to conquer. So few rookie quarterback seasons have looked like the one Dak Prescott put together for the Cowboys—and he had the help of fellow stud rookie Ezekiel Elliott and an incredible offensive line. Often rookie quarterback seasons look like what the Eagles' Carson Wentz did in 2016. He started out sizzling, with seven touchdown passes and only one interception over his first four career starts, three of which ended in wins. Then quickly, as his game film piled up, defenses adjusted, and Wentz couldn't counter. He logged only two interception-free games during the second half of his rookie season, finishing with 14 total picks and an average of only 6.2 yards per pass attempt. The true Wentz is likely somewhere in between those extremes. Much of the 24-year-old's inconsistencies were a product of his own doing because of poor vision and decision-making while getting acclimated to the speed of NFL defenses. Still, there was a dire need for better support as Eagles receivers repeatedly dropped passes in key situations. Eagles pass-catchers dropped 24 of Wentz's throws in 2016, which remarkably and sadly was an improvement over 2015 when they dropped 37 balls. They desperately needed to improve the targets available for Wentz and risked shattering the confidence of their young quarterback right away. The solutions the Eagles found in free agency were the right ones: Alshon Jeffery and Torrey Smith . Both receivers were signed to short-term contracts with little commitment beyond 2017, which is ideal for a team still exploring what it does or doesn't have in Wentz. Jeffery was signed to the classic one year "prove it" deal but at the shockingly low rate of $8.75 million guaranteed . He's an athletically gifted vertical option and has the catch radius to reel in poorly thrown balls. But his value was kept low because of recent injuries and a suspension. So Jeffery will be motivated to produce and cash in next spring, and if either his play or health turns south, the Eagles can move on quickly. Same with Smith, who was given just $500,000 in guaranteed money. Both Smith and Jeffery had poor seasons in 2016, but please recall the quarterback situations they're coming from. Smith dealt with the 49ers' Colin Kaepernick and Blaine Gabbert, while Jeffery had to navigate Jay Cutler and the Bears' carousel of passing awfulness. Yet they both still combined for 1,088 receiving yards, which tragically isn't far behind the total of 1,561 yards posted by the Eagles' top three receivers. That's how badly the Eagles needed to inject life into the offense around Wentz. 3. Tampa Bay Buccaneers Much like the Eagles, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers badly needed to find support for their young quarterback. But their situation was arguably worse, because the Bucs also needed to support their young receiver. In 2016, Buccaneers quarterbacks threw for 4,165 yards. And Mike Evans, their skyscraper of a wide receiver, was on the other end for 1,321 of those yards. That's 31.7 percent of Tampa's passing yards, and the next two leading Bucs wide receivers (Adam Humphries and Russell Shepard) combined for only 963 yards. So the item atop the Bucs' free agency shopping list was clear: A wingman for Evans, and someone who could also be a deep threat to take advantage of quarterback Jameis Winston's booming arm. DeSean Jackson checks off both of those boxes, and he's set to do it at an affordable price. The Buccaneers signed Jackson to a contract that will pay him an average of $11.2 million over three years. That annual average makes him only the league's ninth highest paid receiver, per Spotrac . And more importantly, his $20 million in guaranteed money ranks tied for 12th. The cost for his services was kept low because of Jackson's age. He's a speed-based wideout who just turned 30 years old in December. But the Buccaneers shouldn't be worried about an abrupt downturn in production. Jackson has totaled 1,000-plus receiving yards in three of his past four seasons, and the only exception was an injury-plagued 2015 when he appeared in 10 games. Jackson is fresh off of averaging 17.9 yards per reception in 2016, too. Aging also wasn't much of a concern when he grabbed 16 receptions that traveled 20-plus yards through the air, which was the league's second-highest total in 2016, per PFF . He's the turf burner that both Winston and Evans needed. Jackson can be the deep option for the former and draw attention away from the latter. The Bucs didn't stop there while spreading around their wealth of salary-cap room. They also bolstered an already quality pass rush (38 sacks in 2016) by signing defensive end Chris Baker. He finished with 42 pressures in 2016, per PFF , and is only one year removed from a year with six sacks. And on the back end, safety J.J. Wilcox was also added to improve a 22nd-ranked pass defense. Wilcox swings a mean hammer as a heavy hitter and had six passes defensed in 2016. 2. Jacksonville Jaguars The Jacksonville Jaguars acted like a kid with a blank check at Toys R Us during the opening days of free agency. That is normally not a compliment, and it often leads to regret and wasted dollars. But they had mounds upon mounds of money and spent it the right way. Exactly how much sweet, sweet cash did the Jaguars have? They handed out $68 million in guarantees and still have the third-most cap space, according to Spotrac ($58.4 million). With that spending, they took an existing strength and made it into a potentially imposing juggernaut by adding some of the best available defenders. A.J. Bouye led that group as both the top cornerback available and arguably the top free agent on the open market because of his age and the fact he may not have reached his talent ceiling yet. Bouye will turn only 26 years old later this offseason, and in 2016, he allowed a passer rating in coverage of only 58.5 while with the Houston Texans, per PFF . That includes two playoff games, and he snatched an interception in both. Bouye was signed to a five-year contract worth $67.5 million, and he'll now slide in alongside Jalen Ramsey. The two will be a formidable and young cornerback duo capable of generating turnovers. As an impressive rookie, Ramsey allowed a reception on only 52.9 percent of his targets in coverage , per PFF. In between those two will be safety Barry Church, who signed a deal with the Jaguars set to give him $12 million guaranteed . Church led the market at his position and is coming off a season with 15 defensive stops and two interceptions. So the league's fifth-ranked pass defense in 2016 should remain at that level or higher, and opposing quarterbacks will also face the possibility of a pancaking more often after defensive end Calais Campbell was added, too. The best remaining pass-rusher after franchise tags were applied may be aging a bit and will turn 31 just prior to the 2017 season. But that's mattered so little recently for the 6'8" and 300-pound giant with his eight sacks in 2016, and Campbell has also been a consistently reliable edge setter against the run. All of those imposing defensive pieces will be plugged into a unit that already boasts high-end talents like defensive tackle Malik Jackson, linebacker Myles Jack and safety Tashaun Gipson. The bar for quarterback Blake Bortles to clear with his performance on the other side of the ball has never been lower. But his play is still a looming question mark over an otherwise talented team ready to finally take a step forward. 1. New England Patriots It's been a rough winter for the legions of New England Patriots haters. But hey, at least the snow should melt soon and another Boston team will begin steamrolling opponents, too. Those who don't enjoy watching the Patriots win so damn much are already finding their face and palm meeting regularly just because of quarterback Tom Brady's refusal to age like a normal human. Brady will turn 40 years old before the beginning of the 2017 season, and he's fresh off a championship year when he averaged 8.2 passing yards per attempt while throwing only two interceptions with 28 touchdown passes. And now it'll be easier for Brady to fight off age demons and stay at that high level of performance after what the Patriots did to begin their offseason. Brady has spent much of his career turning overlooked or discarded pass-catchers into heroes. In 2016, wide receiver Chris Hogan was a prime example. Prior to 2016, Hogan had a career single-season high of 450 receiving yards. Then Hogan was a key figure in three playoff games when he totaled 332 yards. Brady hasn't had many established deep-threat receivers at his disposal throughout his time in New England, with one notable exception ( Randy Moss ). Now that will change after the Patriots traded for Brandin Cooks. The shifty and speedy wideout has recorded 1,100-plus receiving yards in two of his first three NFL seasons after being a first-round pick in 2014. He's also scored 20 touchdowns over only 42 career games. And most importantly for Brady's outlook with a new deep hookup target, Cooks also recorded 544 receiving yards in 2016 on balls that traveled 20-plus yards through the air. That was the league's second-highest total, per PFF . Cooks can create yards after the catch on short-to-intermediate throws as well, which is key if Brady does begin to age and see his arm strength fade. His addition will keep the Patriots' window to tack on more championships to the Brady-Belichick era wide open. The same can be said for adding tight end Dwayne Allen to replace the departing Martellus Bennett, bringing back defensive tackle Alan Branch and his 49 tackles in 2016 and aggressively pursuing and signing cornerback Stephon Gilmore, one of the best available players at his position. New England also fortified its league-best defense by re-signing safety Duron Harmon and core middle linebacker Dont'a Hightower, per ESPN , and plugging in defensive ends Kony Ealy and Lawrence Guy. The Patriots' latest Super Bowl win is still large in the rear-view mirror. And by adding Cooks, beefing up their defense and getting tight end Rob Gronkowski back from injury, they're in prime position to be champions again in 2017 for the third time over the past four years. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

","duration":41,"description":null,"author_name":"Team Stream Now","article_type":"uber_article","analytics":{"video_id":17660,"title":"Could Stingy Rhode Island Rams Be Cinderella Team of 2017 NCAA Tournament?","stream":"Hale Irwin","published_at":"2017-03-15T19:58:57.980000","id":"7dab609c-fe2c-483c-8468-aba75698e80c"},"amp_url":null,"ad_stitched_url":null},"media_width":null,"media_url":null,"media_id":null,"media_height":null,"hook_type":"photo","autoplay":true}},{"url_hash":"f4a3a768b0c15a8f15557ca57592f677c29200420b86c6b1ce439c02112e1a1c","url":"http://bleacherreport.com/articles/2696443-ncaa-basketball-championship-2017-who-best-fits-the-blueprint-of-a-winner","updated_at":"2017-03-16T05:25:18Z","tag":{"unique_name":"mm-related-content","tag_id":97782,"short_name":"MM RC","logo":"mm_related_content.png","display_name":"MM Related Content","color2":"","color1":""},"status":"active","position":null,"playlist_type":"ts","playlist_id":957201,"permalink":"/articles/track/6440316434-who-best-fits-the-championship-blueprint","performed_by":"gmarchetti@bleacherreport.com","original_url_hash":67610800,"notification":null,"is_locked":false,"is_featured":false,"internal_position":"5.6406250000","id_str":"6440316434","id":6440316434,"href":"http://djay.bleacherreport.com/playlists/mm-related-content_ts/tracks/6440316434","hide_from_regions":[],"hidden_attributes":[],"group_tags":[],"expires_at":null,"created_at":"2017-03-15T14:53:21Z","content_type":"external_article","content":{"title":"Who Best Fits the Championship Blueprint?","thumbnail_url":"https://img.bleacherreport.net/img/images/photos/003/664/107/hi-res-6041a74ec022f0ce26ed2bf1eaca26ee_crop_exact.jpg?w=900&h=600&q=75","metadata":{"title":"NCAA Basketball Championship 2017: Who Best Fits the Blueprint of a Winner?","thumbnail_url":"https://img.bleacherreport.net/img/images/photos/003/664/107/hi-res-6041a74ec022f0ce26ed2bf1eaca26ee_crop_exact.jpg?w=900&h=600&q=75","provider_url":"http://bleacherreport.com","provider_name":"Bleacher Report","photo_credit":"Anthony Gruppuso-USA TODAY Sports","description":"

After four months of basketball, you would think that a team typically is what it is.

This exercise is done to identify the traits of a national champion by studying past champs. I identified 10 criteria that most champions fall under and put the top four seeds in each region through the gamut to see who has that championship look.

But the last three national champs have taught us that it’s apparently never too late to change.

In 2014, Connecticut looked nothing like a title contender. Any Huskies fans who want to raise their hands and say \"I picked them\" weren’t living in reality.

The Huskies were such an outlier I made the decision to not even study their numbers. It was a freak accident, and it was to be treated as such.

But the last two years have also been unusual in that one criteria the eventual champ fell well short of meeting in the regular season became a huge strength in the postseason.

In 2015, Duke went from playing meh defense for four months to unleashing one of the stingiest defenses in the history of the tournament. The Blue Devils entered the tourney ranked 57th in adjusted efficiency and finished 12th. That sort of jump over six games just does not happen.

Last season, Villanova shot a bunch of threes but wasn’t very accurate, entering the tourney making 34.4 percent from deep—37 percent is the target in the blueprint. Somehow, the Wildcats all turned into Stephen Curry and plowed through the bracket nailing exactly 50 percent of their threes.

This is a long way of saying that the results of this exercise should be considered in picking the champ, but we should also consider the possibility a team somehow changes in the middle of March.

I’m also 0-for-4 using this data to pick the title winner.

Last season, the numbers loved Michigan State, which was only the second team in four years to hit all 10 criteria. Sparty, of course, lost in the first round to Middle Tennessee.

But to justify the sake of this exercise, the numbers did like Louisville in 2013, Duke in 2015 and Villanova last year, so the data is worth running. At least, that’s what I keep telling myself.

Here are the 10 qualifications, which I've adjusted slightly through the years based on rule changes and trends:



Head coach has reached an Elite Eight.



Team won either its regular-season conference title or conference tournament. (This rule could get replaced next season. Before UConn in 2014, every champ since 1990 except Arizona in 1997 had won a league title. Then last year's champ failed to do so as well, making this qualifier moot for two straight years. But since UConn in '14 never happened, the blueprint is currently chalking Duke up as an outlier.)



Ranks in the top 20 in KenPom.com's adjusted offensive efficiency ratings.



Ranks in the top 20 in KenPom.com's adjusted defensive efficiency ratings.



Shoots better than 37 percent from beyond the arc.



Has at least three double-digit scorers. (Allow rounding, so 9.5-plus qualifies.)



Has a frontcourt scorer who averages more than 12 points per game or will get picked in the first round of the NBA draft.



Rebounds better than 34 percent of its misses on the offensive end. (The cutoff was 37 percent, but because offensive rebounding is less of a priority, the number has dropped. More on this later.)



Holds opponents to less than 45 percent shooting inside the arc.



Has a defensive free-throw rate better than 34 percent. (Free-throw rate is the number of free throws attempted per field-goal attempt.)



A reminder that only top-four seeds qualify. Connecticut in 2014 is the only champ seeded below the four line in the last 28 years, and as it relates to this blueprint, that never happened.

Pedigree Tests

Gonzaga gets a lot of flack for never reaching the Final Four, but Mark Few has been to six Sweet 16s and reached the Elite Eight two years ago.

Three of the five coaches who haven’t reached an Elite Eight—Florida State’s Leonard Hamilton, UCLA’s Steve Alford and Purdue’s Matt Painter—have at least been to a Sweet 16.

Coaches with previous Final Four experience do seem to have an advantage. Since 1990, the only coaches to win on their first trip to the Final Four are Jim Harrick (UCLA, 1995), Tubby Smith (Kentucky, 1998), Jim Calhoun (UConn, 1999), Bill Self (Kansas, 2008) and Kevin Ollie (UConn, 2014).

The conference champ test has not been as important the last few years. UConn was the first since Arizona in 1997 to win the title without winning its league’s regular season or postseason, and then Duke did the same the next year. (The Blue Devils did go 15-3 in the ACC that year and finished just one game back of Virginia.) Villanova, the 2016 Big East regular season champ, was a return to the norm last season.

Offensive Footprint

The 2014 Huskies are the only team to finish outside the top 20 in adjusted efficiency in the KenPom.com era (since 2002), so this is one of the most important boxes to check.

Louisville, Baylor, Purdue and Florida State all fall short here, but that could quickly change with just one efficient night scoring the ball in the tournament. West Virginia was in the top 20 most of the season and has fallen off as of late.

The Mountaineers rely a lot on their defense to create easy scoring opportunities, and since most tourney teams haven’t ever seen their press, they could return to earlier season form, which was aided by transition opportunities created by live-ball turnovers.

While overall efficiency is what matters most, a majority of champs get there with accurate three-point shooting, an ability to rebound misses, balanced scoring and at least one scoring big man.

(Note: As college basketball has trended smaller, many teams employ a small-ball 4 who would typically play on the wing. Those mini 4s still qualify as big men for this test.)

Kansas is the only team that hits on both marks for three-point shooting and offensive rebounding. Most teams are either-or. The Jayhawks get it done by putting four shooters on the perimeter and then camping center Landen Lucas near the bucket. Lucas, who isn’t that quick or explosive like most elite rebounders, does an excellent job tracking where misses are going to come off. Josh Jackson is also a sneaky offensive rebounder because he can cover ground so quickly.

The Jayhawks are also a rarity because most teams aren't able to successfully crash the offensive glass with just one or two guys. Most coaches either decide to send everyone but their point guard to the glass or ignore offensive rebounding almost entirely to get back in transition. And if I were to reevaluate the blueprint—another Michigan State-like pick and I might—the offensive rebounding test is one I might ditch. I lowered the number from 37 percent to 34 percent last year because offensive rebounding numbers have trended downward in recent years, and so many teams are abandoning the glass that it almost makes the category irrelevant.

Villanova is one of those teams that sacrificed the offensive glass for getting back in transition, and for the second straight year, Jay Wright’s club doesn’t come close to hitting the mark.

Defensive Footprint

Are there any 2015 Dukes in this field? First, let’s look at the numbers.

UCLA would be the most unexpected of the group to make a massive improvement on the defensive end. The Bruins have been trending in a better direction late in the season but it’s hard to see them committing to defense so much so that they become dominant.

Duke held opponents to 90.1 points per 100 possessions in that tourney run. The only major-conference foe UCLA held below that mark this season was lifeless Washington twice, and one of those games was played without Markelle Fultz.

Oregon, Florida State, North Carolina, Arizona, Kansas and Duke have the personnel to jump into the top 20.

The Ducks are the best shot-blocking team in the country but are now without leading shot-blocker Chris Boucher. Florida State has the length and athletes to be nasty on the defensive end. It's a surprise the Seminoles aren't consistently there already. Arizona is strong on the perimeter and has a defensive-minded coach in Sean Miller, but its bigs are not as gifted defensively as past 'Zona interior players.

Kansas could be the best candidate to pull a Duke. The Jayhawks seem to pick their spots to defend, but this group has been elite before—ranking third in adjusted efficiency last year—and Josh Jackson is the X-factor that Duke had in Justise Winslow. Winslow was a beast on the defensive end in the tournament in 2015, flying all over the floor as a small-ball 4. Jackson is a similar force with the versatility and defensive range to cause havoc.

And even Duke could pull a 2015 Duke, especially if Harry Giles becomes more of a factor. Giles has the ability to be a stud on the defensive end. He just has been slow to adjust and not super confident in his surgically-repaired knees. He was once expected to be the No. 1 pick in 2017, and he has flashed some of the old Giles lately. But Mike Krzyzewski is so committed to playing small that it could be difficult to find more minutes for Giles. That means Jayson Tatum needs to do his best to pull a Winslow.

Results

The top seeds usually fare better than most, but there is more of a divide this season than in years past. The sum of criteria checked for the ones (34) is higher than any other year I’ve run the numbers with 2013 (32) coming closest. That year a No. 1 seed (Louisville) won the title.

Villanova checks just as many boxes as last season, but this team is slightly different. Like last year, Wright’s team falls short on the offensive glass. The Wildcats this season shoot it better from deep—although the tourney version of Nova did so too—and their two-point defense, which hit the mark last season, is not nearly as stingy. That’s one reason I’m not sure the Wildcats are as set to go on a deep run. Daniel Ochefu offered rim protection that this team doesn’t have.

The data likes both Kansas and Gonzaga, which makes me feel good because those are the teams I have in the championship game in my bracket. I quickly feel not so good when I remember how the blueprint has performed the last four years.

The Zags only fall short on the offensive glass, and again, that’s probably the least important criteria. KU’s unchecked box (adjusted defensive efficiency) is a more glaring shortcoming and KU’s commitment to defense in the tournament could control its fate.

If you’re picking Florida State, Florida, West Virginia or Butler to win the title, you may want to rethink that selection.

The last thing that should be noted is that every year I’ve done this—sans 2014, the tournament that didn’t really happen—the eventual champ has checked at least seven boxes.

So your 2017 national champion will come from this group of schools: Villanova, Kansas, North Carolina, Gonzaga, Kentucky, Arizona, Duke, Oregon or Baylor.

And if it’s not, I give up.

Unless otherwise noted, statistics courtesy of KenPom.com.



C.J. Moore covers college basketball and football for Bleacher Report. You can follow him on Twitter: @CJMooreBR.









Read more NCAA Tournament news on BleacherReport.com