Ivana Trump writing memoir about raising kids with Donald
Ivana Trump writing book about raising kids with Donald
Shares                Ivana Trump , President Donald Trump 's first wife, is writing a memoir that will focus on the couple’s three children, her publisher said Wednesday. In the book, to be titled "Raising Trump," Ivana will offer insight about her own life and share the lessons she taught her children -- Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka -- according to the book’s publisher Simon & Schuster. According to the publisher's press release, the book will be a "non-partisan, non-political book about motherhood, strength, and resilience." It is unlikely that there will be anything critical in the book of President Trump, who Ivana supported during the election. The Czech-born Ivana was married to President Trump from 1977 to 1992, when their marriage dissolved amid revelations that Trump had an affair with Marla Maples, who later became his second wife. "Every day, people ask me how I raised such great kids," Ivana said according to the press release from the publisher. "They are truly amazed when I tell them that there was no magic to their upbringing." She added: "I was a tough and loving mother who taught them [her children] the value of a dollar, not to lie, cheat or steal, respect for others, and other life lessons." According to Ivana, the book will also feature "unfiltered personal stories about Don, Eric, and Ivanka from their early childhood to becoming the ‘first sons and daughter.’" The memoir is slated to be released on Sept. 12, 2017. Shares                  Ivana Trump writing book about raising kids with Donald   Trump wants to slash State Department budget by 28%   The Note: Trump's travel ban 0 for 2   Trump budget director 'getting the money together to build the wall'   Aloha! Barack Obama visits Hawaii   Trump says news reports were behind unsubstantiated wiretap claim   Trump calls ruling against new travel ban 'unprecedented judicial overreach'   Trump pivots on wiretapping accusation, brushes aside tax leak   Trump puts brakes on Obama-era auto emissions regulations   What we do - and don't - know about Donald Trump's taxes   EPA may roll back chemical plant safety rules   Bipartisan bill seeks to help Afghan interpreters obtain visas   House GOP health bill facing fresh House committee test   Yahoo breach spotlights links between Russian spies, hackers   Britain's Brexit bill receives royal assent, becomes law   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Author who penned dating profile for husband has died

Ivana Trump, President Donald Trump's first wife, is writing a memoir that will focus on the couple’s three children, her publisher said Wednesday.

In the book, to be titled "Raising Trump," Ivana will offer insight about her own life and share the lessons she taught her children -- Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka -- according to the book’s publisher Simon & Schuster.

According to the publisher's press release, the book will be a "non-partisan, non-political book about motherhood, strength, and resilience." It is unlikely that there will be anything critical in the book of President Trump, who Ivana supported during the election.

The Czech-born Ivana was married to President Trump from 1977 to 1992, when their marriage dissolved amid revelations that Trump had an affair with Marla Maples, who later became his second wife.

"Every day, people ask me how I raised such great kids," Ivana said according to the press release from the publisher. "They are truly amazed when I tell them that there was no magic to their upbringing."

She added: "I was a tough and loving mother who taught them [her children] the value of a dollar, not to lie, cheat or steal, respect for others, and other life lessons."

According to Ivana, the book will also feature "unfiltered personal stories about Don, Eric, and Ivanka from their early childhood to becoming the ‘first sons and daughter.’"

The memoir is slated to be released on Sept. 12, 2017.