Locals praise 'hilarious' police Facebook appeal over man 'avoiding our calls'
Locals praise 'hilarious' police Facebook appeal over man 'avoiding our calls'
ocals have praised a police force's very social media-savvy way of trying to contact a man who had broken his bail conditions. Northumbria Police want to find Jack Wilson, 19, from Ryton, Gateshead They treated it almost like a break-up post, saying "some of the times we've spent together have been very memorable" The force claimed: "Now you're avoiding our calls." In the Facebook post, the force said: "We're beginning to think you don't want to speak to us. "Some of the times we have spent together have been really memorable. "Like remember when we arrested you for witness intimidation and criminal damage? Those were the days weren't they? "The problem is when we bail you for those offences you have to stick to the conditions." he jovial tone of the message continued, with the force saying: "You only have a couple of options now. You either pay a little visit to a police station, or you give us a call on 101 and we come and pick you up. "It would save us all a lot of time and we would be really happy to see your face walking through our doors. "We're a friendly bunch and just want to keep local people safe. I'm sure our followers will back us up on that." People who commented on the status thought it was a great way of trying to catch criminals. Jack Wilson is wanted for breach of bail after being arrested on suspicion of witness intimidation and criminal damage. Call if you see him. https://t.co/GKJjGOtg5L ne said: "Is this a joke or? Funniest thing I've read in long time!" Another raved: "And they say romance is dead ha ha......quality!" ome called for the employee who wrote the status to be promoted, with one writing: "Oh you should promote your employee who wrote this. Best ever!" In a statement, Northumbria Police said the wanted man, from Ash Grove, was wanted for a breach of bail but has so far failed to hand himself in to police. The force added: "He was serving a curfew after being arrested for offences including witness intimidation and criminal damage."

Locals have praised a police force's very social media-savvy way of trying to contact a man who had broken his bail conditions.

Northumbria Police want to find Jack Wilson, 19, from Ryton, Gateshead

They treated it almost like a break-up post, saying "some of the times we've spent together have been very memorable"

The force claimed: "Now you're avoiding our calls."

In the Facebook post, the force said: "We're beginning to think you don't want to speak to us.

"Some of the times we have spent together have been really memorable.

"Like remember when we arrested you for witness intimidation and criminal damage? Those were the days weren't they?