Duisburg hostage crisis: Two arrested as police say threat over
Duisburg hostage crisis: Two arrested as police say threat over
Two people have been arrested after a hostage situation at a bank in Duisburg, Germany. Police said the hostage situation was over after special forces entered the bank and found no more suspects inside. Two men were arrested nearby. #Polizei sperrt #Sparkasse in #Duisburg Rumeln-Kaldenhausen weiträumig ab. #Täter hat vermutlich zwei #Geiseln . #radioduisburg berichtet pic.twitter.com/CPZWpyaUNa SEK hat die Sparkasse in #Dusiburg durchsucht. Die gefesselte Person ist frei. Keine weiteren Personen im Gebäude. https://t.co/jImnCgnUmK Police were alerted earlier this morning that an armed man was holding at least two employees hostage. A woman was later allowed to leave and acted as a witness to the police. After the two men were arrested by a nearby bakery, police entered the bank and confirmed there was no longer a threat. Initial reports said a man and a woman were being held at gunpoint inside the bank, reported . Photos from the scene showed a heavy police presence. More about: Duisburg Germany Comments

Two people have been arrested after a hostage situation at a bank in Duisburg, Germany.

Police said the hostage situation was over after special forces entered the bank and found no more suspects inside.

Two men were arrested nearby.

SEK hat die Sparkasse in #Dusiburg durchsucht.

Die gefesselte Person ist frei. Keine weiteren Personen im Gebäude. https://t.co/jImnCgnUmK — Polizei NRW DU (@polizei_nrw_du) March 16, 2017

Police were alerted earlier this morning that an armed man was holding at least two employees hostage.

A woman was later allowed to leave and acted as a witness to the police.

After the two men were arrested by a nearby bakery, police entered the bank and confirmed there was no longer a threat.

Initial reports said a man and a woman were being held at gunpoint inside the bank, Der Western reported.

Photos from the scene showed a heavy police presence.