Alabama kidnapping victim escapes by jumping out of car trunk
Kidnapping victim escapes by jumping out of trunk
Shares               An Alabama woman managed to escape from a reported robbery and kidnapping incident on Tuesday by jumping out of the trunk of a moving vehicle, police said. The woman told police that she was walking to her apartment in Birmingham, Alabama, when an unknown man approached her with a gun and demanded money, the Birmingham Police Department said in a statement Wednesday. The unidentified woman told police that the suspect forced her to get into the trunk of a car after she told him that she did not have any money.  Recognize this man? Person of interest in recent Robbery/Kidnapping. If so please contact @BhamPolice or @CSMetroAL  pic.twitter.com/eLHSQMa9La  After the suspect drove to a gas station and convenience store in Birmingham, the woman was able to open the trunk and escape just as the vehicle was starting to pull away, police said. She then ran inside and called 911 for help. The victim, 25, suffered minor injuries when she jumped out of the car, according to ABC News affiliate WBMA. Police are still searching for the suspect, and circulated an image of the man based on the gas station’s surveillance footage.  Shares                  Kidnapping victim escapes by jumping out of trunk   Trump: Ruling against revised travel ban is 'unprecedented judicial overreach'   Global stocks gain, US dollar weaker after Fed hike   How Russian agents allegedly directed massive Yahoo cyberattack   Trump puts brakes on Obama-era auto emissions regulations   High-profile Twitter accounts hacked over Turkey-Holland spat   EPA may roll back chemical plant safety rules   White House meeting on Saudi underscores kingdom's influence   Texas congressman tells town hall attendee to 'shut up'   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Author who penned dating profile for husband has died   Senate votes to approve Trump's picks for key security posts   Damascus suicide bombings kill dozens, Syrian TV reports   Dutch voting in election seen as barometer of populism   Ryan's gambit: Second health care bill to woo the reluctant   Lone lawmaker crusades against the death penalty in Alabama   Tillerson shuns all but conservative website on Asia tour   Trump 'probably not the source' of leaked tax return, journalist who received document says   How the GOP health care plan would affect women   CBO: 14 million more uninsured next year under GOP plan   Dramatic audio captures air traffic controllers helping pilot land with broken throttle   McDonald's worker rescues unconscious cop at drive-through   Obama picks North Carolina men, UConn women in NCAA tourney   How a Mississippi woman found biological father after 32 years   US women's hockey players threaten boycott over wages   11 bikers sue over arrests after 2015 Texas bar shootout   Paris Jackson says she was Michael's 'favorite' child   Aloha! Barack Obama visits Hawaii

An Alabama woman managed to escape from a reported robbery and kidnapping incident on Tuesday by jumping out of the trunk of a moving vehicle, police said.

The woman told police that she was walking to her apartment in Birmingham, Alabama, when an unknown man approached her with a gun and demanded money, the Birmingham Police Department said in a statement Wednesday.

The unidentified woman told police that the suspect forced her to get into the trunk of a car after she told him that she did not have any money.

Recognize this man? Person of interest in recent Robbery/Kidnapping. If so please contact @BhamPolice or @CSMetroAL pic.twitter.com/eLHSQMa9La — Birmingham Police (@BhamPolice) March 15, 2017

After the suspect drove to a gas station and convenience store in Birmingham, the woman was able to open the trunk and escape just as the vehicle was starting to pull away, police said. She then ran inside and called 911 for help.

The victim, 25, suffered minor injuries when she jumped out of the car, according to ABC News affiliate WBMA.

Police are still searching for the suspect, and circulated an image of the man based on the gas station’s surveillance footage.

ABC News' William Gretsky contributed to this report.