Kim Jong Nam’s Corpse Unclaimed in Kuala Lumpur

Kim Jong Nam’s Corpse Unclaimed in Kuala Lumpur Malaysia used a DNA sample from one of Kim Jong Nam’s children to identify the corpse, weeks after the half-brother of North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un was killed. Photo: Getty Images This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate. DNA evidence has raced on the last remaining doubts ... the man killed McCollum for Sydney Airport last month ... was indeed huge honor and ... a half brother of North Korean dictator Kim Jong ... one final question ... what what happened to his body ... his body remains in hospital fall on for ... when he was a good ... reason ... local press reports say the body has been chilled and defrost it multiple times for weeks ... during autopsy ... and identification process ... is big and on to better preserve it ... authorities say family members have two to three weeks to claim the body ... if Canon body isn't claims ... he will eventually be buried in Malaysia ... so far nobody has stepped forward ... she was believed to have a least one son and daughter with his second wife were living in Macau ... some North Korea expert says he has every six children in total buying skim console of ... from ... North Korea ... of the confounding a man believed to be Kim sung ... Chan console appeared in a video posted online last week ... seeing that he is immediate family ... I've been teaching to secure location ... on Wednesday police authorities said they identified the body based on a DNA sample ... taken for one of Kim Jiang and children ... he didn't say how the team in ... the sand ... mother to have a direct contact with ... the numbers ... Kim Jong Il was attacked on every thirty ... and airport by two one and easy to get the nerve agent called the acts ... she was waiting to board a plane for all of Port to tell ... where his belief ... this AB ... far from this street half brother and she on ... her goal is to one that will stand trial on murder up ...

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.

DNA evidence has raced on the last remaining doubts ... the man killed McCollum for Sydney Airport last month ... was indeed huge honor and ... a half brother of North Korean dictator Kim Jong ... one final question ... what what happened to his body ... his body remains in hospital fall on for ... when he was a good ... reason ... local press reports say the body has been chilled and defrost it multiple times for weeks ... during autopsy ... and identification process ... is big and on to better preserve it ... authorities say family members have two to three weeks to claim the body ... if Canon body isn't claims ... he will eventually be buried in Malaysia ... so far nobody has stepped forward ... she was believed to have a least one son and daughter with his second wife were living in Macau ... some North Korea expert says he has every six children in total buying skim console of ... from ... North Korea ... of the confounding a man believed to be Kim sung ... Chan console appeared in a video posted online last week ... seeing that he is immediate family ... I've been teaching to secure location ... on Wednesday police authorities said they identified the body based on a DNA sample ... taken for one of Kim Jiang and children ... he didn't say how the team in ... the sand ... mother to have a direct contact with ... the numbers ... Kim Jong Il was attacked on every thirty ... and airport by two one and easy to get the nerve agent called the acts ... she was waiting to board a plane for all of Port to tell ... where his belief ... this AB ... far from this street half brother and she on ... her goal is to one that will stand trial on murder up ...