Stephen Colbert hilariously spoofs Rachel Maddow's Trump tax-form tease
Stephen Colbert hilariously spoofs Rachel Maddow's Trump tax-form tease


It all started on Tuesday evening when MSNBC host Rachel Maddow tweeted that on her show that night she would be revealing President Donald Trump's tax returns.

But before unveiling that she had two pages of Trump's 2005 federal tax return, she opened her show with a lengthy tease that went on for over 10 minutes. Leading to people on Twitter losing their minds during the dragged-out setup.

On Wednesday's "Late Show," host Stephen Colbert pounced on the moment by spoofing Maddow's opening with his own two-and-a-half-minute tease for a joke he claimed Trump had heard: "Why did the chicken cross the road?"

"I hold in my hand something very significant," Colbert said, dressed in Maddow's signature blazer with a backdrop that looked similar to the one her show uses. "It is a joke, a joke that we have confirmed has been heard by Donald Trump. We believe this is the first time any joke dealing with Donald Trump has been released."

Colbert then went into long tangents about chickens and roads and if either relates to Russia.

"But whether or not you're a Trump supporter, whether or not you've heard this joke before, it should give you pause that after all of this buildup I still haven't gotten to the punchline," Colbert said before seemingly getting to the punchline only to go to a commercial break.

Since her Tuesday show, Maddow has had to defend her reveal of the tax form, which showed that Trump earned $150 million in 2005 and paid $38 million in income taxes that year. Many have felt the whole thing was a disappointment.

"My priority is to get the story right and put it into proper context, and explain the weight of it and why it is important," Maddow told the Associated Press. "This is a super interesting first window into his finances, and the question of his finances is a legitimate scandal."

Watch Colbert's Maddow bit below:

Â