GOP health care bill advances despite opposition from conservatives
GOP health care bill narrowly clears a committee despite conservative opposition
Shares               The House Budget Committee narrowly advanced the GOP health care plan Thursday morning despite "no" votes by three conservatives on the panel, underscoring Republicans' disagreements over the legislation as it moves closer to a vote on the House floor. The budget panel by 19-17 passed the American Health Care Act, which now heads to the House Rules Committee. Republican Reps. Mark Sanford , Dave Brat and Gary Palmer, who are members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, joined Democratic committee members in voting against the measure. A fourth Republican "no" vote would have stalled the bill. The three GOP representatives were the first Republican votes against the plan to repeal and replace Obamacare since the bill's introduction last week. House GOP leadership and the White House are working hard to sell the measure to both conservatives and moderates in the party who have different sets of concerns about the bill. With Democrats expected to vote as a bloc against the legislation, Republicans can afford to lose only 21 votes to pass the bill through the House. House Speaker Paul Ryan is acknowledging that Republicans will have to tweak the measure for it to win House passage. "We're making refinements based upon the feedback we’re getting from our members," Ryan said in a news conference Thursday. “The goal here is get to a bill that ... we can pass and that is actually great policy, and the president playing a very constructive role on this.” The bill will also likely require significant revisions in the Senate, where Republicans can afford to lose only three GOP votes. Senate Republicans from states that expanded Medicaid coverage under Obamacare have signaled opposition to the bill's changes to the program, while conservative members have also objected to several provisions. "I think we're going to have negotiation," President Trump said of the bill in an interview with Fox News on Wednesday. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office in its analysis of the bill estimates that 14 million more Americans would be uninsured next year under the American Health Care Act.  Shares                  GOP health care bill narrowly clears a committee despite conservative opposition   McDonald's 'compromised' Twitter account called Trump a 'disgusting excuse of a president'   Read the full White House budget blueprint   Trump wants to slash State Department budget by 28 percent   The Note: Trump's travel ban 0 for 2   Trump budget director 'getting the money together to build the wall'   Ivana Trump writing book about raising kids with Donald   Aloha! Barack Obama visits Hawaii   Trump says news reports were behind unsubstantiated wiretap claim   Trump calls ruling against new travel ban 'unprecedented judicial overreach'   Trump pivots on wiretapping accusation, brushes aside tax leak   Trump puts brakes on Obama-era auto emissions regulations   10-year-old boy dies after being trapped in snow pile from late-winter storm   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Author who penned dating profile for husband has died

The House Budget Committee narrowly advanced the GOP health care plan Thursday morning despite "no" votes by three conservatives on the panel, underscoring Republicans' disagreements over the legislation as it moves closer to a vote on the House floor.

The budget panel by 19-17 passed the American Health Care Act, which now heads to the House Rules Committee.

Republican Reps. Mark Sanford, Dave Brat and Gary Palmer, who are members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, joined Democratic committee members in voting against the measure. A fourth Republican "no" vote would have stalled the bill.

The three GOP representatives were the first Republican votes against the plan to repeal and replace Obamacare since the bill's introduction last week.

House GOP leadership and the White House are working hard to sell the measure to both conservatives and moderates in the party who have different sets of concerns about the bill. With Democrats expected to vote as a bloc against the legislation, Republicans can afford to lose only 21 votes to pass the bill through the House.

House Speaker Paul Ryan is acknowledging that Republicans will have to tweak the measure for it to win House passage.

"We're making refinements based upon the feedback we’re getting from our members," Ryan said in a news conference Thursday. “The goal here is get to a bill that ... we can pass and that is actually great policy, and the president playing a very constructive role on this.”

The bill will also likely require significant revisions in the Senate, where Republicans can afford to lose only three GOP votes. Senate Republicans from states that expanded Medicaid coverage under Obamacare have signaled opposition to the bill's changes to the program, while conservative members have also objected to several provisions.

"I think we're going to have negotiation," President Trump said of the bill in an interview with Fox News on Wednesday.

The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office in its analysis of the bill estimates that 14 million more Americans would be uninsured next year under the American Health Care Act.