A Kansas lawmaker just compared Planned Parenthood to a Nazi death camp

When Planned Parenthood supporters in Kansas get fed up with conservative lawmakers who despise the women's health organization, they have a special way of trolling the opposition: making a donation to Planned Parenthood Great Plains in a lawmaker's name. A letter is then sent to the lawmaker notifying them that a donation has been made in their “honor .” State Sen. Steve Fitzgerald (R) was so disgusted by receiving such a letter that last week he wrote a letter back — comparing the organization to a Nazi concentration camp. Planned Parenthood officials say they welcome the fervent outpouring of support that has spiked donations across the country in recent months. Conservative politicians like Fitzgerald who have been on the receiving end of those donations, not so much. “It is with great dismay that I received your letter that a donation was made in my 'honor' to your heinous organization,” Fitzgerald wrote Planned Parenthood Great Plains, according to one of the organization's tweets Friday. “This is as bad — or worse — as having one's name associated with Dachau.” “Shame on your organization and shame on anyone would attempt to blacken my name in this manner,” read Fitzgerald's kicker.   Fitzgerald did not immediately respond to messages left with his staff. Fitzgerald is a vocal opponent of abortion who supported a 2013 bill that declared that life begins "at fertilization," according to the Associated Press . "The human is a magnificent piece of work at all stages of development, wondrous in every regard, from the microscopic until full development," Fitzgerald told the AP. This week he told the Kansas City Star that the letter he received from Planned Parenthood was a form of “harassment” and “political theater” and suggested he had no choice but to respond. “It was either send them that or ignore it,” Fitzgerald said. “I figured, I don’t want my name associated as a donation to Planned Parenthood, in my name, to go on undenounced by me.” Planned Parenthood Great Plains fired back at him by tweeting out the senator's letter and demanding an apology for comparing their work to systematic genocide. Sen. Fitzgerald did NOT appreciate having a donation to @PPGreatPlains made in his honor. Just FYI. https://t.co/raCPC9b3nX  #ksleg  #heinous  pic.twitter.com/D5AbOgRfLM — PP Great Plains KS (@PPGreatPlainsKS) March 10, 2017 It's been 4 days since @SenatorFitz ' comparison of @PPGreatPlains to Dachau went public. You still haven't denounced his comments. #ksleg  https://t.co/mw47w03397 — PP Great Plains KS (@PPGreatPlainsKS) March 15, 2017 P.S. Rather than attacking women, how bout you collect @SenatorFitz , who can't seem to stop with the offensive Holocaust comparisons? #ksleg  https://t.co/mw47w03397 — PP Great Plains KS (@PPGreatPlainsKS) March 15, 2017 Bonyen Lee-Gilmore, a spokesperson for Planned Parenthood Great Plains, told The Washington Post that her organization hasn't received an apology from the lawmaker. She called Fitzgerald an “extreme legislator” who was exploiting a terrible historical event for political gain. Since his letter was tweeted out Friday, she said, Planned Parenthood Great Plains has received thousands of dollars from supporters across the country and even in Canada. Lee-Gilmore said supporters have made a habit of using donation letters to troll lawmakers. “In our state it's actually something that supporters really love doing,” she said. “When Trump picked Vice President Mike Pence, people began donating in Pence's name. When Oklahoma [state] representative Justin Humphrey talked about a woman's body being a 'host' for a fetus earlier this year, people started donating in his name.” “This is their way of standing with Planned Parenthood and also rejecting this kind of hate speech,” she added. Pence led an effort to defund Planned Parenthood as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2011. As governor of Indiana, he signed into law a bill that required pregnant women to receive an ultrasound 18 hours ahead of a scheduled abortion. The law, which was eventually barred from taking effect by a federal judge, also required fetal remains to be buried or cremated. In the days after Pence was elected vice president, Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards told the Atlantic she had seen " 'an unprecedented outpouring of support' and nearly 80,000 donations," The Post's Katie Mettler reported in November . "In a tweet sent Nov. 12, Planned Parenthood confirmed that many donors are contributing not just in Pence’s name, but they’re writing in the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton." Thank you so much! We've been blown away by the support we've received. Many people are donating in Clinton or Pence's name. #WeWontGoBack — Planned Parenthood (@PPact) November 12, 2016  The latest conflict between Fitzgerald and Planned Parenthood began in February, when Ali Weinel, a 26-year-old executive assistant who lives in a suburb outside Kansas City, emailed Fitzgerald to voice her opposition to Senate Bill 98, a controversial abortion bill that would — among other things — require physicians performing an abortion to disclose their medical and disciplinary history and state residency to the woman seeking the procedure. In addition, the bill states, the information must be provided in writing “on white paper in a printed format in black ink with 12-point times new roman font.” What is the other criticism the bill has gotten? Weinel, who is not one of Fitzgerald's constituents, told The Post that she never expected him to respond. But he did, kicking off a heated email exchange between a lawmaker and a citizen over the course of seven hours. Weinel initially compared SB 98 to a diner being forced to read the nutritional information instead of being allowed to ask for that information on their own. “The information you want provided to every patient receiving an abortion already exists and can be given to any patient at any time with very little lead time,” she wrote. “Abortion is legal, whether you like it or not, and this legislation will not prevent anyone who wants an abortion from getting one.” Fitzgerald's response was brief and to the point. “Killing children is always a bad idea,” he wrote. “Equating it to a menu choice is truly disgusting. Regards, Steve.” After a few more emails were traded, the communication ended with Weinel instructing the lawmaker to “get back to work.” “He was pretty disrespectful and rude throughout the email exchange,” Weinel said. “I was frustrated and thought I might feel less frustrated if I donated to Planned Parenthood in his name since he's fighting to make access to women's health care impossible, and I wanted to do something about it.” Despite Planned Parenthood's calls for an apology, Fitzgerald stood by his comparison during his interview with the Kansas City Star, noting that both Planned Parenthood and Nazis exterminated “innocent human life.” “How about if I make a donation in your name to the Ku Klux Klan and publish it?” he said. “If somebody made a donation to the Ku Klux Klan in your name and published it, how would you feel? What would you do? How would you react? Wouldn’t it be controversial for you to deny that or to denounce that in the strongest possible terms?” “It’s pretty controversial, don’t you think?” he added.



Kansas state Sen. Steve Fitzgerald (R) speaks during a legislative debate in Topeka, Kan., last month. Fitzgerald told the Kansas City Star on Monday that he considers Planned Parenthood worse than the Nazi regime in Germany. (Thad Allton/Topeka Capital-Journal via AP)

When Planned Parenthood supporters in Kansas get fed up with conservative lawmakers who despise the women's health organization, they have a special way of trolling the opposition: making a donation to Planned Parenthood Great Plains in a lawmaker's name.

A letter is then sent to the lawmaker notifying them that a donation has been made in their “honor.”

State Sen. Steve Fitzgerald (R) was so disgusted by receiving such a letter that last week he wrote a letter back — comparing the organization to a Nazi concentration camp.

Planned Parenthood officials say they welcome the fervent outpouring of support that has spiked donations across the country in recent months. Conservative politicians like Fitzgerald who have been on the receiving end of those donations, not so much.

“It is with great dismay that I received your letter that a donation was made in my 'honor' to your heinous organization,” Fitzgerald wrote Planned Parenthood Great Plains, according to one of the organization's tweets Friday. “This is as bad — or worse — as having one's name associated with Dachau.”

“Shame on your organization and shame on anyone would attempt to blacken my name in this manner,” read Fitzgerald's kicker.

[Why critics say a Texas bill lets anti-abortion doctors lie to pregnant women]

Fitzgerald did not immediately respond to messages left with his staff.

Fitzgerald is a vocal opponent of abortion who supported a 2013 bill that declared that life begins "at fertilization," according to the Associated Press.

"The human is a magnificent piece of work at all stages of development, wondrous in every regard, from the microscopic until full development," Fitzgerald told the AP.

This week he told the Kansas City Star that the letter he received from Planned Parenthood was a form of “harassment” and “political theater” and suggested he had no choice but to respond.

“It was either send them that or ignore it,” Fitzgerald said. “I figured, I don’t want my name associated as a donation to Planned Parenthood, in my name, to go on undenounced by me.”

Planned Parenthood Great Plains fired back at him by tweeting out the senator's letter and demanding an apology for comparing their work to systematic genocide.

It's been 4 days since @SenatorFitz' comparison of @PPGreatPlains to Dachau went public. You still haven't denounced his comments. #ksleg https://t.co/mw47w03397 — PP Great Plains KS (@PPGreatPlainsKS) March 15, 2017

P.S. Rather than attacking women, how bout you collect @SenatorFitz, who can't seem to stop with the offensive Holocaust comparisons? #ksleg https://t.co/mw47w03397 — PP Great Plains KS (@PPGreatPlainsKS) March 15, 2017

Bonyen Lee-Gilmore, a spokesperson for Planned Parenthood Great Plains, told The Washington Post that her organization hasn't received an apology from the lawmaker. She called Fitzgerald an “extreme legislator” who was exploiting a terrible historical event for political gain. Since his letter was tweeted out Friday, she said, Planned Parenthood Great Plains has received thousands of dollars from supporters across the country and even in Canada.

Lee-Gilmore said supporters have made a habit of using donation letters to troll lawmakers.

“In our state it's actually something that supporters really love doing,” she said. “When Trump picked Vice President Mike Pence, people began donating in Pence's name. When Oklahoma [state] representative Justin Humphrey talked about a woman's body being a 'host' for a fetus earlier this year, people started donating in his name.”

“This is their way of standing with Planned Parenthood and also rejecting this kind of hate speech,” she added.

Pence led an effort to defund Planned Parenthood as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2011. As governor of Indiana, he signed into law a bill that required pregnant women to receive an ultrasound 18 hours ahead of a scheduled abortion. The law, which was eventually barred from taking effect by a federal judge, also required fetal remains to be buried or cremated.

In the days after Pence was elected vice president, Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards told the Atlantic she had seen " 'an unprecedented outpouring of support' and nearly 80,000 donations," The Post's Katie Mettler reported in November. "In a tweet sent Nov. 12, Planned Parenthood confirmed that many donors are contributing not just in Pence’s name, but they’re writing in the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton."

Thank you so much! We've been blown away by the support we've received. Many people are donating in Clinton or Pence's name. #WeWontGoBack — Planned Parenthood (@PPact) November 12, 2016

The latest conflict between Fitzgerald and Planned Parenthood began in February, when Ali Weinel, a 26-year-old executive assistant who lives in a suburb outside Kansas City, emailed Fitzgerald to voice her opposition to Senate Bill 98, a controversial abortion bill that would — among other things — require physicians performing an abortion to disclose their medical and disciplinary history and state residency to the woman seeking the procedure.

In addition, the bill states, the information must be provided in writing “on white paper in a printed format in black ink with 12-point times new roman font.”

What is the other criticism the bill has gotten?

Weinel, who is not one of Fitzgerald's constituents, told The Post that she never expected him to respond.

But he did, kicking off a heated email exchange between a lawmaker and a citizen over the course of seven hours. Weinel initially compared SB 98 to a diner being forced to read the nutritional information instead of being allowed to ask for that information on their own.

“The information you want provided to every patient receiving an abortion already exists and can be given to any patient at any time with very little lead time,” she wrote. “Abortion is legal, whether you like it or not, and this legislation will not prevent anyone who wants an abortion from getting one.”

Fitzgerald's response was brief and to the point.

“Killing children is always a bad idea,” he wrote. “Equating it to a menu choice is truly disgusting.

Regards,

Steve.”

After a few more emails were traded, the communication ended with Weinel instructing the lawmaker to “get back to work.”

“He was pretty disrespectful and rude throughout the email exchange,” Weinel said. “I was frustrated and thought I might feel less frustrated if I donated to Planned Parenthood in his name since he's fighting to make access to women's health care impossible, and I wanted to do something about it.”

Despite Planned Parenthood's calls for an apology, Fitzgerald stood by his comparison during his interview with the Kansas City Star, noting that both Planned Parenthood and Nazis exterminated “innocent human life.”

“How about if I make a donation in your name to the Ku Klux Klan and publish it?” he said. “If somebody made a donation to the Ku Klux Klan in your name and published it, how would you feel? What would you do? How would you react? Wouldn’t it be controversial for you to deny that or to denounce that in the strongest possible terms?”

“It’s pretty controversial, don’t you think?” he added.

MORE READING:

The time Sean Spicer wouldn’t say whether Trump thinks microwaves spied on him

Devin Nunes confirms it: The evidence of Trump Tower being wiretapped just doesn’t seem to exist

There are now almost 60 Republicans with major concerns about the GOP’s Obamacare replacement bill