Anushka Poking Fun At Katrina’s Song To Promote Phillauri Proves That They Are Best Of Friends
Anushka Poking Fun At Katrina’s Song To Promote Phillauri Proves That They Are Best Of Friends
Anushka Poking Fun At Katrina’s Song To Promote Phillauri Proves That They Are Best Of Friends Promotions for Anushka Sharma and Diljit Dosanjh starrer are going on in full swing. The actor-turned-producer has taken the promotional strategy to a different level altogether. She has rolled out a new hashtag – #ShashiWasThere – and the Shashi jokes are crazier with each passing day. Looks like Anushka's ghostly side of the character was present pretty much everywhere – in all iconic Bollywood moments. Don't believe us? Take a look: Koi mujhe bataye yeh teeno mujh pe ungli kyun utha rahein the? #ShashiWasThere  pic.twitter.com/kYvpsn0uiQ Ab aap jaan gaye ki Veeru Jai ke upar kyon baitha tha. Because #ShashiWasThere 👻 pic.twitter.com/f2RWCKXiGH Pehle Sher Ke Saath Fasa phir Ek Bhoot Ke Saath. Thank God main Khunkhar nahin, friendly hoon. #ShashiWasThere 👻 @ImSurajSharma  pic.twitter.com/rMh7y5vxZU The hashtag is high on buzz reflecting that fans love her antics. Recently, she tweeted about how Shashi was there during the filming of Katrina Kaif’s Sheila Ki Jawani and poked fun at how there was a mistake in the song. Yeh gaana ekdum galat hai.. inka naam Katrina hai, Sheila Nahi! Main inhey achchey se jaanti hoon.. #ShashiWasThere  pic.twitter.com/3jlcxf18bY Katrina Kaif and Anushka Sharma share a comfortable camaraderie with each other, which was very much visible during their appearance on Koffee With Karan. Once again, by poking fun at Katrina’s song while promoting her own movie, Anushka has proved that they are best of friends. For the uninitiated, Anushka is playing the role of a ghost in the movie, which has an unfished business to complete. Going by the trailer, the ghost seems to be funny and not ghastly at all. Besides Anushka, the movie also stars Diljit Dosanjh, actor Suraj Sharma as well as Mehreen Pirzada. The Anshai Lal directorial is slated to hit the screens on March 24.

Promotions for Anushka Sharma and Diljit Dosanjh starrer Phillauri are going on in full swing. The actor-turned-producer has taken the promotional strategy to a different level altogether. She has rolled out a new hashtag – #ShashiWasThere – and the Shashi jokes are crazier with each passing day.

Looks like Anushka's ghostly side of the character was present pretty much everywhere – in all iconic Bollywood moments. Don't believe us? Take a look:

Koi mujhe bataye yeh teeno mujh pe ungli kyun utha rahein the? #ShashiWasThere pic.twitter.com/kYvpsn0uiQ — Anushka Sharma (@AnushkaSharma) March 4, 2017

Ab aap jaan gaye ki Veeru Jai ke upar kyon baitha tha. Because #ShashiWasThere 👻 pic.twitter.com/f2RWCKXiGH — Anushka Sharma (@AnushkaSharma) March 7, 2017

Pehle Sher Ke Saath Fasa phir Ek Bhoot Ke Saath. Thank God main Khunkhar nahin, friendly hoon. #ShashiWasThere 👻@ImSurajSharma pic.twitter.com/rMh7y5vxZU — Anushka Sharma (@AnushkaSharma) March 16, 2017

The hashtag is high on buzz reflecting that fans love her antics. Recently, she tweeted about how Shashi was there during the filming of Katrina Kaif’s Sheila Ki Jawani and poked fun at how there was a mistake in the song.

Yeh gaana ekdum galat hai.. inka naam Katrina hai, Sheila Nahi! Main inhey achchey se jaanti hoon.. #ShashiWasThere pic.twitter.com/3jlcxf18bY — Anushka Sharma (@AnushkaSharma) March 15, 2017

Katrina Kaif and Anushka Sharma share a comfortable camaraderie with each other, which was very much visible during their appearance on Koffee With Karan. Once again, by poking fun at Katrina’s song while promoting her own movie, Anushka has proved that they are best of friends.

filmfare.com

For the uninitiated, Anushka is playing the role of a ghost in the movie, which has an unfished business to complete. Going by the trailer, the ghost seems to be funny and not ghastly at all. Besides Anushka, the movie also stars Diljit Dosanjh, Life Of Pi actor Suraj Sharma as well as Mehreen Pirzada. The Anshai Lal directorial is slated to hit the screens on March 24.