Watch James Corden's Crosswalk 'Beauty and the Beast'
Watch James Corden's Crosswalk 'Beauty and the Beast'
Watch James Corden's Crosswalk 'Beauty and the Beast'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  James Corden took his love of musicals to the street again on Wednesday night (March 15) for the latest edition of Â the host's occasional homage to musical theater performed in between green lights on Beverly Boulevard and Genesee Avenue.Â This time his traffic-dodging crew was joined by actorsÂ Josh Gad, Luke Evans and Dan Stevens for a run through some beloved tunes from the upcoming live actionÂ Â remake. While Emma Watson couldn't make the scene, Corden was more than willing to slip into the XXL-sized yellow dress to waltz across the avenue during rush hour. "To be invited by James to perform at the crosswalk outside of CBS that's what we call a dream come true," said Gad, as his co-stars looked stunned by the news that their stage would be an exhaust-choked avenue.  After Corden'sÂ confounding parking lot warm-up acting exercisesÂ -- including whipping red dodgeballs at Gad to simulate oncoming buses and getting choked out by Evans' Gaston -- the late night host got into character by comparing his take on Belle as akin to Daniel Day Lewis playingÂ Abraham Lincoln andÂ Meryl Streep's take onÂ Margaret Thatcher. "In many ways those three will always be regarded as simliar, if not the same," he predicted. You be the judge: Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Dan Stevens, Luke Evans, and Josh Gad performs Crosswalk the Musical: Beauty and the Beast with James Corden during "The Late Late Show with James Corden" on March 6, 2017.

James Corden took his love of musicals to the street again on Wednesday night (March 15) for the latest edition of Crosswalk: The Musical,Â the Late Late Show host's occasional homage to musical theater performed in between green lights on Beverly Boulevard and Genesee Avenue.Â This time his traffic-dodging crew was joined by actorsÂ Josh Gad, Luke Evans and Dan Stevens for a run through some beloved tunes from the upcoming live actionÂ Beauty and the BeastÂ remake.

While Emma Watson couldn't make the scene, Corden was more than willing to slip into the XXL-sized yellow dress to waltz across the avenue during rush hour. "To be invited by James to perform at the crosswalk outside of CBS that's what we call a dream come true," said Gad, as his co-stars looked stunned by the news that their stage would be an exhaust-choked avenue.

After Corden'sÂ confounding parking lot warm-up acting exercisesÂ -- including whipping red dodgeballs at Gad to simulate oncoming buses and getting choked out by Evans' Gaston -- the late night host got into character by comparing his take on Belle as akin to Daniel Day Lewis playingÂ Abraham Lincoln andÂ Meryl Streep's take onÂ Margaret Thatcher. "In many ways those three will always be regarded as simliar, if not the same," he predicted.

You be the judge:

Â