Brexit: Theresa May should not defy Scotland amid independence 2.0 push, Alex Salmond warns



Brexit: Theresa May should not defy Scotland amid independence 2.0 push, Alex Salmond warns

Updated

Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May has been warned time is running out to come up with a compromise deal to stop Scotland holding another independence referendum.

Key points: Nicola Sturgeon "will win" Scottish independence referendum if held, former first minister Alex Salmond says

Says UK can avoid referendum if Theresa May negotiates Brexit deal that keeps Scotland's access to EU trading markets

People in London have to remember "Scotland is a country, not a county", Mr Salmond says

Speaking to Lateline just days after the Scottish nationalists announced plans for a second independence referendum, Scotland's former first minister Alex Salmond said they were determined to stay in the European single market, with or without the rest of Britain.

He said the United Kingdom could avoid another Scottish independence vote if the Prime Minister was able to negotiate a Brexit deal that allowed Scotland to keep that access to European trading markets.

"The door is still open, but it's closing. Theresa May has a couple of weeks before the end of March in order to come to her senses and to make the concessions that [First Minister] Nicola Sturgeon has been asking for," he said.

"I don't think she's going to do it. This is a pretty narrow-vision Prime Minister. She's set in her ways, she's determined to barge on regardless.

"I think she's going to get her comeuppance and I think there will be a referendum in Scotland and I think Nicola Sturgeon will win it."

Mr Salmond said there would be a backlash against the Conservative party if the Prime Minister tried to block a Scottish referendum until after Brexit negotiations were completed in two years' time.

"They're not a strong government, they're certainly not strong enough to defy the will of the Scottish people," he said.

"What people in London have to remember, and what people in Australia know, is that Scotland is a country, it's not a county in England."

Scottish-Euro ties run back to William Wallace

Scotland overwhelmingly voted to stay within the European Union when last year's Brexit referendum was held.

Mr Salmond said he was confident most Scottish independence supporters were also pro-Europe.

"The independence movement has always had a European dimension," he said.

"William Wallace, our greatest hero, so superbly played by Mel Gibson in Braveheart, when he won his greatest battle at Stirling Bridge in 1297 the first thing he did after that amazing victory was not to have a Ceilidh — a party.

"He wrote a letter to the Hanseatic League, which was the medieval forbearer of the single marketplace and said: 'Look, we're back in charge, the English have been thrown out, we want our trading concessions back'.

"So even in 1297, William Wallace was writing the Lubeck Letter and saying we want Scotland to be trading freely with our European partners."

Mr Salmond would not say if Ms Sturgeon would have to follow in his footsteps and stand down as Scottish leader if she lost any independence vote.

"One thing she won't be contemplating is losing," he said.

"She's got every expectation of winning this referendum and I believe she shall."

Topics: world-politics, scotland, united-kingdom

First posted