Here's Every Artist Who Has Defended Snoop Dogg's Trump-Referencing 'Lavender' Video
Here's Every Artist Who Has Defended Snoop Dogg's Trump-Referencing 'Lavender' Video
Here's Every Artist Who Has Defended Snoop Dogg's Trump-Referencing 'Lavender' Video  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  In Donald Trump's eyes,Â Snoop Dogg 's career may be "failing" but in real-life, not so much. The West Coast rap veteranÂ is not only cooking up a second season of his VH1 showÂ , spearheading the Snoop Youth Football League, and releasing a forthcoming album calledÂ he's also caused much debate over his politically charged videoÂ for BADBADNOTGOOD's "Lavender."Â The Jesse Wellens-directedÂ clip finds the Doggfather aiming a prop gun at a clown parody of the president. While politicians and Trump himself have expressed their disappointment in the "mock assassination," hip-hop is riding with Snoop.Â While Snoop Dogg has taken to Instagram to let the world know he's "got nothing to say,"Â see who's come to Snoop's defense below.Â In a now-deleted tweet, the rapper/actor came to his "uncle's" defense, despite drawing major criticism from both Trump supporters and social media spectators alike.Â "AyoÂ @realDonaldTrumpÂ shut your punk a--Â up talking s--t about my uncleÂ @SnoopDoggÂ before we pimp your wife and make her work for us," he tweeted on Wednesday (March 15).Â Looks like #ShadMoss has a few words for #Donnie -- What did Melania do -- A post shared by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Tip went all the way in on the Commander-in-Chief, dropping expletive after expletive in his tirade against Trump for coming at Snoop. @snoopdogg is a Fuckin Legend u Fucking Tangerine Tanned Muskrat scrotum skin, Lacefront Possum fur Wig wearing, Alternative fact,Atomic Dog diarrhea face ass man!!!! Leave our legends names out ya fuckin old ass puppy piss smelling ass mouth & continue to focus on dividing minorities,building barriers, alienating immigrants, &fuckin this country up like u been doin.... #UWannaBeDictator #PresidentialLevelFuckBoy A post shared by TIP (@troubleman31) on In a joint interview withÂ , the MCs weighed in on the "artistic" video and expressed how they sided with Snoop despiteÂ the gun scene.Â "And it was a confetti gun," TreachÂ said. "Anybody got shot, confetti came out. It was artistic." He later adds, "I don't think it was threatening neither."Â "I was nervous," Ice-T then admitted. "He'sÂ messing with the line. We'll see how this weighs out, but I roll with Snoop. I thought it was a good video." In a run-in withÂ Common emphasizedÂ the freedom of expression in hip-hop.Â "Hip-hop always been about freedom of expression, that's one of the most powerful things," he said. "Hip-hop hasÂ been like aÂ voice for so many people...Â If you go think about the days of Public Enemy and you fast-forward to Kendrick Lamar,Â hip-hop artists have always been speaking up and saying what they feel... if it's a president they don't like, if it's a politician they don't like... if you didn't like what was going on you speak up and we're entitled to do that as people."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

In Donald Trump's eyes,Â Snoop Dogg's career may be "failing" but in real-life, not so much.

The West Coast rap veteranÂ is not only cooking up a second season of his VH1 showÂ Martha & Snoop, spearheading the Snoop Youth Football League, and releasing a forthcoming album calledÂ Never Left,Â he's also caused much debate over his politically charged videoÂ for BADBADNOTGOOD's "Lavender."Â

The Jesse Wellens-directedÂ clip finds the Doggfather aiming a prop gun at a clown parody of the president. While politicians and Trump himself have expressed their disappointment in the "mock assassination," hip-hop is riding with Snoop.Â

While Snoop Dogg has taken to Instagram to let the world know he's "got nothing to say,"Â see who's come to Snoop's defense below.Â

Bow Wow (Shad Moss)

In a now-deleted tweet, the rapper/actor came to his "uncle's" defense, despite drawing major criticism from both Trump supporters and social media spectators alike.Â

"AyoÂ @realDonaldTrumpÂ shut your punk a--Â up talking s--t about my uncleÂ @SnoopDoggÂ before we pimp your wife and make her work for us," he tweeted on Wednesday (March 15).Â

Â Looks like #ShadMoss has a few words for #Donnie -- What did Melania do -- A post shared by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Mar 15, 2017 at 2:43pm PDT

T.I.Â

Tip went all the way in on the Commander-in-Chief, dropping expletive after expletive in his tirade against Trump for coming at Snoop.

Ice-T and Treach

In a joint interview withÂ TMZ Live, the MCs weighed in on the "artistic" video and expressed how they sided with Snoop despiteÂ the gun scene.Â

"And it was a confetti gun," TreachÂ said. "Anybody got shot, confetti came out. It was artistic." He later adds, "I don't think it was threatening neither."Â

"I was nervous," Ice-T then admitted. "He'sÂ messing with the line. We'll see how this weighs out, but I roll with Snoop. I thought it was a good video."

Common

In a run-in withÂ TMZ,Â Common emphasizedÂ the freedom of expression in hip-hop.Â "Hip-hop always been about freedom of expression, that's one of the most powerful things," he said. "Hip-hop hasÂ been like aÂ voice for so many people...Â If you go think about the days of Public Enemy and you fast-forward to Kendrick Lamar,Â hip-hop artists have always been speaking up and saying what they feel... if it's a president they don't like, if it's a politician they don't like... if you didn't like what was going on you speak up and we're entitled to do that as people."