Leigh heap pressure on Warrington after Gareth Hock leads the way

at Leigh Sports Village    The pressure continues to intensify on Warrington . It is perhaps a stretch to call a run of five defeats a crisis given how we are still in March but it is clear last year’s Grand Finalists are finding themselves increasingly in a battle at the wrong end of the table. Tipped by many to make it all the way to Old Trafford again this season, Tony Smith’s side look shorn of confidence in these opening weeks of 2017 – and this despite comprehensively beating Brisbane in the World Club Series. This is their worst start to a season since 2009, when Smith replaced James Lowes in the middle of an equally unimpressive run of five straight defeats. It is highly improbable a similar outcome will follow and Smith will lose his job. It is difficult to see where Warrington’s first points of the season will come from. That said, Leigh were magnificent and with three wins from their opening six games, they have already ensured this is their most successful Super League campaign following promotion from the Championship last season. Recent form certainly suggests they belong among the game’s elite. Warrington’s quest for a first victory was given a boost with the appearance of Chris Hill, their captain, who made his name at Leigh as a teenager, for his first game of the season. However, Hill’s early efforts were overshadowed by a magnificent opening quarter from his opposite number, Gareth Hock. The former Great Britain international’s career has taken a backward step in recent years but looked almost back to his best. His performance included producing the opening try in typical no-nonsense fashion, the forward forcing his way over from close range. Warrington continued to toil. Most of the focus had been on the Wolves half-back Kurt Gidley becoming the first player to wear a camera and the television crew may have been wise to check if it was still working when he was forced into losing the ball owing to a thunderous hit from the Leigh defence which produced the second try. Gidley spilled in midfield before the Leigh centre Ben Crooks used the free-play rule to his advantage, chasing through and collecting to make it 10-0. On the balance of play, it was no less than Leigh deserved. And as the rain drove in, that 10-point looked all the more imposing in increasingly difficult conditions. The weather made the decision from Ben Reynolds to make it 12-0 with a penalty from in front of the posts undoubtedly the right one as half-time approached. The fact Warrington and Gidley responded with a penalty of their own on the hooter, despite being 12 points behind, illustrated what a chastening half it had been for the visitors. “Technical issues” meant the player cam concept was ditched at half-time but it failed to change Gidley and Warrington’s fortunes. That they could not even take advantage of a sin-bin for the forward, Glenn Stewart spoke volumes of how out of sorts they were and when the Wolves winger Tom Lineham was shown a yellow card, Leigh made them pay. First, Adam Higson touched down in the spot where Lineham would have been defending before Hock capped off a fine individual display with his second to compound Warrington’s misery and not even a late Lineham try could spark any hopes of an unlikely comeback. Many had tipped the promoted Centurions to be in the bottom four and the Qualifiers come the end of the regular season. On this form it may be Warrington who are there instead. Hampshire; Higson, Crooks, Brown, Dawson; Reynolds, Drinkwater; Hock, Higham, Acton, Vea, Stewart, Hansen. Pelissier, Tickle, Hopkins, Burr. Johnson; Russell, Evans, Atkins, Lineham; Brown, Gidley; Hill, Clark, Cooper, Hughes, Westwood, Westerman. Sims, Dwyer, Savelio, Livett. B Thaler.  Super League XXII   Leigh Centurions   Warrington   Super League   Rugby league   match reports

The pressure continues to intensify on Warrington. It is perhaps a stretch to call a run of five defeats a crisis given how we are still in March but it is clear last year’s Grand Finalists are finding themselves increasingly in a battle at the wrong end of the table.

Tipped by many to make it all the way to Old Trafford again this season, Tony Smith’s side look shorn of confidence in these opening weeks of 2017 – and this despite comprehensively beating Brisbane in the World Club Series.

This is their worst start to a season since 2009, when Smith replaced James Lowes in the middle of an equally unimpressive run of five straight defeats. It is highly improbable a similar outcome will follow and Smith will lose his job. It is difficult to see where Warrington’s first points of the season will come from.

That said, Leigh were magnificent and with three wins from their opening six games, they have already ensured this is their most successful Super League campaign following promotion from the Championship last season. Recent form certainly suggests they belong among the game’s elite.

Warrington’s quest for a first victory was given a boost with the appearance of Chris Hill, their captain, who made his name at Leigh as a teenager, for his first game of the season. However, Hill’s early efforts were overshadowed by a magnificent opening quarter from his opposite number, Gareth Hock.

The former Great Britain international’s career has taken a backward step in recent years but looked almost back to his best. His performance included producing the opening try in typical no-nonsense fashion, the forward forcing his way over from close range.

Warrington continued to toil. Most of the focus had been on the Wolves half-back Kurt Gidley becoming the first player to wear a camera and the television crew may have been wise to check if it was still working when he was forced into losing the ball owing to a thunderous hit from the Leigh defence which produced the second try.

Gidley spilled in midfield before the Leigh centre Ben Crooks used the free-play rule to his advantage, chasing through and collecting to make it 10-0. On the balance of play, it was no less than Leigh deserved. And as the rain drove in, that 10-point looked all the more imposing in increasingly difficult conditions. The weather made the decision from Ben Reynolds to make it 12-0 with a penalty from in front of the posts undoubtedly the right one as half-time approached.

The fact Warrington and Gidley responded with a penalty of their own on the hooter, despite being 12 points behind, illustrated what a chastening half it had been for the visitors.

“Technical issues” meant the player cam concept was ditched at half-time but it failed to change Gidley and Warrington’s fortunes. That they could not even take advantage of a sin-bin for the forward, Glenn Stewart spoke volumes of how out of sorts they were and when the Wolves winger Tom Lineham was shown a yellow card, Leigh made them pay.

First, Adam Higson touched down in the spot where Lineham would have been defending before Hock capped off a fine individual display with his second to compound Warrington’s misery and not even a late Lineham try could spark any hopes of an unlikely comeback. Many had tipped the promoted Centurions to be in the bottom four and the Qualifiers come the end of the regular season. On this form it may be Warrington who are there instead.

Leigh Hampshire; Higson, Crooks, Brown, Dawson; Reynolds, Drinkwater; Hock, Higham, Acton, Vea, Stewart, Hansen. Interchange Pelissier, Tickle, Hopkins, Burr.

Warrington Johnson; Russell, Evans, Atkins, Lineham; Brown, Gidley; Hill, Clark, Cooper, Hughes, Westwood, Westerman. Interchange Sims, Dwyer, Savelio, Livett.

Referee B Thaler.