Affidavit: Josh Jackson threatened to 'beat' women's player
Court doc: Kansas' Jackson threatened woman
Court doc: Kansas' Jackson threatened woman Live NCAA tourney betting results Your Thursday best! Dapper UNC, celebrity brackets and more College basketball's coaching carousel: Who's in, who's out? Scouting the entire NCAA tournament field ESPN picks: No consensus on a champion Harry Giles finally looks ready to play big role for Duke Students to get $1 million in steak dinners if NKU upsets Kentucky Dogs beat cats! Cats beat birds! How mascots fare in the tournament. Why believe in Kentucky? History shows they're the best fit to win Reversal of progress for black male athletes Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment LAWRENCE, Kan. -- One day before top-seeded Kansas opens NCAA tournament play, court officials released an affidavit that says freshman star Josh Jackson threatened to "beat" a women's basketball player during a confrontation in December. Douglas County District Court officials released the affidavit to The Lawrence Journal-World detailing statements from McKenzie Calvert and two other Kansas women's basketball players who witnessed the argument Dec. 9 outside The Yacht Club in Lawrence. The affidavit was filed by police to justify a court summons Jackson was served March 7; he is charged with misdemeanor criminal damage. Coach Bill Self suspended Jackson for the quarterfinal game in the Big 12 Tournament that Kansas lost to TCU as punishment for an accumulation of embarrassing incidents. Self has been adamant that Jackson will play Friday when the top-seeded Jayhawks face UC Davis in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The incident began inside the bar when Calvert threw a drink at her ex-boyfriend, Lagerald Vick , another Kansas player. She said she was upset because Vick attended the party with his new girlfriend. Calver told police Jackson followed her to her car and "was yelling for her to get out of the car and that he would beat her ass," the affidavit says. Jackson is scheduled to appear in court April 12. His attorney did not return a call Thursday from The Associated Press. The affidavit said the bumper, grille, fender, windshield, left tail lamp assembly and driver's side front door were all damaged, with a total repair cost of about $3,150. Witnesses reported Jackson only damaging the door and tail light, with an estimated damage of $1,127, and District Attorney Charles Branson said Jackson was not charged with felony criminal damage because it couldn't be proved that the player caused all the damage. Jackson apologized in a statement shortly after he was arrested and "offered to pay for any damage that I directly caused." Women's basketball player Caelynn Manning-Allen told police she tried to restrain Jackson by grabbing his arms and he kicked Calvert's car before she was able to get him away from the vehicle. Another women's player, Eboni Watts, said she witnessed Jackson kick Calvert's driver's door twice and kick the tail light. According to the affidavit, Self joined Jackson at McCarthy Hall, where the men's basketball team lives, as he was interviewed by police about 5:45 a.m. the day of the confrontation. The Jayhawks have been dogged by a number of off-the-court problems this season. The most serious is an alleged sexual assault at McCarthy Hall. No suspects have been identified in connection with the incident the night of Dec. 17, though five players are listed as witnesses. Forward Carlton Bragg also was charged with possession in a drug case and was briefly suspended before being granted diversion. Vick was also accused of hitting a female student two years ago, but the school investigated and recommended school probation. And hours after the Jayhawks wrapped up the Big 12 regular-season title, junior guard Devonte Graham was arrested for failing to appear in court. Graham had been ticketed for driving with expired license plates, and said that the car belonged to an ex-teammate and he thought the ticket had been paid. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

LAWRENCE, Kan. -- One day before top-seeded Kansas opens NCAA tournament play, court officials released an affidavit that says freshman star Josh Jackson threatened to "beat" a women's basketball player during a confrontation in December.

Douglas County District Court officials released the affidavit to The Lawrence Journal-World detailing statements from McKenzie Calvert and two other Kansas women's basketball players who witnessed the argument Dec. 9 outside The Yacht Club in Lawrence. The affidavit was filed by police to justify a court summons Jackson was served March 7; he is charged with misdemeanor criminal damage.

Coach Bill Self suspended Jackson for the quarterfinal game in the Big 12 Tournament that Kansas lost to TCU as punishment for an accumulation of embarrassing incidents. Self has been adamant that Jackson will play Friday when the top-seeded Jayhawks face UC Davis in Tulsa, Oklahoma.

The incident began inside the bar when Calvert threw a drink at her ex-boyfriend, Lagerald Vick, another Kansas player. She said she was upset because Vick attended the party with his new girlfriend.

Calver told police Jackson followed her to her car and "was yelling for her to get out of the car and that he would beat her ass," the affidavit says. Jackson is scheduled to appear in court April 12. His attorney did not return a call Thursday from The Associated Press.

The affidavit said the bumper, grille, fender, windshield, left tail lamp assembly and driver's side front door were all damaged, with a total repair cost of about $3,150. Witnesses reported Jackson only damaging the door and tail light, with an estimated damage of $1,127, and District Attorney Charles Branson said Jackson was not charged with felony criminal damage because it couldn't be proved that the player caused all the damage.

Josh Jackson has been charged with criminal damage to property. Ben Queen/USA TODAY Sports

Jackson apologized in a statement shortly after he was arrested and "offered to pay for any damage that I directly caused."

Women's basketball player Caelynn Manning-Allen told police she tried to restrain Jackson by grabbing his arms and he kicked Calvert's car before she was able to get him away from the vehicle. Another women's player, Eboni Watts, said she witnessed Jackson kick Calvert's driver's door twice and kick the tail light.

According to the affidavit, Self joined Jackson at McCarthy Hall, where the men's basketball team lives, as he was interviewed by police about 5:45 a.m. the day of the confrontation.

The Jayhawks have been dogged by a number of off-the-court problems this season. The most serious is an alleged sexual assault at McCarthy Hall. No suspects have been identified in connection with the incident the night of Dec. 17, though five players are listed as witnesses.

Forward Carlton Bragg also was charged with possession in a drug case and was briefly suspended before being granted diversion. Vick was also accused of hitting a female student two years ago, but the school investigated and recommended school probation.

And hours after the Jayhawks wrapped up the Big 12 regular-season title, junior guard Devonte Graham was arrested for failing to appear in court. Graham had been ticketed for driving with expired license plates, and said that the car belonged to an ex-teammate and he thought the ticket had been paid.