When ETFs Beat Funds
When ETFs Beat Funds
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  William Baldwin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The first on our list of villains is the in-and-out trader. This character does a lot of damage at old-style open-end funds, a.k.a. mutual funds. ETFs are immune. No-load mutual funds sell and redeem their shares at net asset value. In order to accommodate fickle investors, funds need to keep idle cash on hand and/or run up trading costs. On days when a lot of money comes in, a portfolio manager has to add to positions, paying a bit more than the stocks or bonds are worth. When the hot money leaves, securities have to be liquidated at depressed prices. The resulting performance nicks rain down on the just and the unjust alike. If you are a long-term investor in a mutual fund, you wind up with a lower return than you deserve. Short-term investors in the fund get a free ride on trading costs. ETFs, most of which are passive index funds, sidestep this problem. They scarcely ever buy or sell portfolio securities. That's the job of market makers, who pass along the cost of trading to the offending parties by maintaining a bid/ask spread in ETF shares. Speculators should prefer the open-end style of fund, at least if they can avoid running afoul of the fund's rules (which may include a short-swing redemption fee). But long-term investors get better performance from ETFs. The next bad guy on our list is the tax collector. Suppose you put $100,000 into the Schwab 1000 Index Fund five years ago. You acquired a split-adjusted 50 Apple shares, 38 Exxon and so on. You stood pat. As investors departed, the fund manager had to liquidate Apple and Exxon shares bought at lower prices. That gave the fund capital gains. The IRS requires gains to be distributed, and they went not to the departing investors but to the remaining ones. You have had $22,000 in cap gains pushed onto your tax returns. An ETF averts this injustice by handing off low-basis securities to market makers in the ETF shares. Strategy: In your taxable account, prefer ETFs. The is much like the 1000 Index but doesn't distribute capital gains. Last among the scalawags is the 401(k) administrator. Standard practice among smaller employers is to recover the cost of overhead on a retirement plan by shepherding employees into overpriced mutual funds. ETFs are your salvation. If your company has no cheap index funds on the menu, and if you have a balance over $100,000, use the plan's brokerage window to buy cheap ETFs. (No window? Make sure that someone from the benefits department overhears a lunchroom conversation about lawsuits involving fiduciaries.) Your plan might feature a target-date mutual fund costing 0.68%, or $680 a year per $100,000. That's okay for gathering monthly contributions and reinvesting dividends. But a large accumulation should be moved over to a knockoff blend of ETFs with approximately the same allocations to U.S. stocks, foreign stocks and bonds. Your blended cost will be less than $100 per $100,000. The Forbes Best ETFs for Investors 2017 ranks 481 funds on ten-year holding costs. Among the bargains for diversified U.S. stock portfolios are SCHB, Old-style mutual funds are about where horses were at the time of the earlier Cubs victory--numerous but losing ground. Go mutual if you dream of beating the market with active management, if you need to invest a small sum or if you're a short-swing speculator. But most people should have most of their money in ETFs. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

YOU'D BE MAKING a mistake to brush off exchange-traded funds as just another contraption designed for Wall Street's gain rather than yours. ETFs are a force for financial justice. They liberate you from three oppressors.

The first on our list of villains is the in-and-out trader. This character does a lot of damage at old-style open-end funds, a.k.a. mutual funds. ETFs are immune.

No-load mutual funds sell and redeem their shares at net asset value. In order to accommodate fickle investors, funds need to keep idle cash on hand and/or run up trading costs. On days when a lot of money comes in, a portfolio manager has to add to positions, paying a bit more than the stocks or bonds are worth. When the hot money leaves, securities have to be liquidated at depressed prices.

The resulting performance nicks rain down on the just and the unjust alike. If you are a long-term investor in a mutual fund, you wind up with a lower return than you deserve. Short-term investors in the fund get a free ride on trading costs.

ETFs, most of which are passive index funds, sidestep this problem. They scarcely ever buy or sell portfolio securities. That's the job of market makers, who pass along the cost of trading to the offending parties by maintaining a bid/ask spread in ETF shares.

Speculators should prefer the open-end style of fund, at least if they can avoid running afoul of the fund's rules (which may include a short-swing redemption fee). But long-term investors get better performance from ETFs.

The next bad guy on our list is the tax collector. Suppose you put $100,000 into the Schwab 1000 Index Fund five years ago. You acquired a split-adjusted 50 Apple shares, 38 Exxon and so on. You stood pat.

As investors departed, the fund manager had to liquidate Apple and Exxon shares bought at lower prices. That gave the fund capital gains. The IRS requires gains to be distributed, and they went not to the departing investors but to the remaining ones. You have had $22,000 in cap gains pushed onto your tax returns.

An ETF averts this injustice by handing off low-basis securities to market makers in the ETF shares. Strategy: In your taxable account, prefer ETFs. The SCHWAB U.S. BROAD MARKET ETF (SCHB, 53) is much like the 1000 Index but doesn't distribute capital gains.

Last among the scalawags is the 401(k) administrator. Standard practice among smaller employers is to recover the cost of overhead on a retirement plan by shepherding employees into overpriced mutual funds. ETFs are your salvation.

If your company has no cheap index funds on the menu, and if you have a balance over $100,000, use the plan's brokerage window to buy cheap ETFs. (No window? Make sure that someone from the benefits department overhears a lunchroom conversation about lawsuits involving fiduciaries.)

Your plan might feature a target-date mutual fund costing 0.68%, or $680 a year per $100,000. That's okay for gathering monthly contributions and reinvesting dividends. But a large accumulation should be moved over to a knockoff blend of ETFs with approximately the same allocations to U.S. stocks, foreign stocks and bonds. Your blended cost will be less than $100 per $100,000.

The Forbes Best ETFs for Investors 2017 ranks 481 funds on ten-year holding costs. Among the bargains for diversified U.S. stock portfolios are SCHB, VANGUARD TOTAL STOCK MARKET (VTI, 112) and iSHARES CORE S&P TOTAL U.S. STOCK MARKET (ITOT, 50).

Old-style mutual funds are about where horses were at the time of the earlier Cubs victory--numerous but losing ground. Go mutual if you dream of beating the market with active management, if you need to invest a small sum or if you're a short-swing speculator. But most people should have most of their money in ETFs.