Weezer's 'Feels Like Summer' Debuts at No. 1 on Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 Chart
Weezer's 'Feels Like Summer' Debuts at No. 1 on Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 Chart
Weezer's 'Feels Like Summer' Debuts at No. 1 on Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 Chart  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Less than a year after the release of its 10th studio album , Weezer is back again with new music.The alt-rock vets' new song "Feels Like Summer" debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart Thursday morning (March 16), shortly after its release. The Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart measures the real-time acceleration of conversation around artists and their music on Twitter. Weezer released the song on YouTube and other streaming services at midnight (ET) March 16 and the track reached the top of the chart around 10 a.m. Its official video was directed by Brendan Walter and Greg Yagolnitzer, who also directed the clip for the group's "Go Away" in 2015. The band announced the new track on Twitter , explaining, "We decided to skip spring entirely and go straight to summer." The track is slated to appear on Weezer's as-yet untitled 11th studio album, due, appropriately, this summer. debuted at No. 4 on the April 23, 2016-dated Billboard 200, arriving as the band's eighth top 10 set.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Less than a year after the release of its 10th studio album Weezer (White Album), Weezer is back again with new music.The alt-rock vets' new song "Feels Like Summer" debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart Thursday morning (March 16), shortly after its release.



The Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart measures the real-time acceleration of conversation around artists and their music on Twitter.



Weezer released the song on YouTube and other streaming services at midnight (ET) March 16 and the track reached the top of the chart around 10 a.m. Its official video was directed by Brendan Walter and Greg Yagolnitzer, who also directed the clip for the group's "Go Away" in 2015.

The band announced the new track on Twitter, explaining, "We decided to skip spring entirely and go straight to summer."



The track is slated to appear on Weezer's as-yet untitled 11th studio album, due, appropriately, this summer. Weezer (White Album) debuted at No. 4 on the April 23, 2016-dated Billboard 200, arriving as the band's eighth top 10 set.