Buck up Bake Off lovers, it could have been much much worse
Buck up Bake Off lovers, it could have been much much worse
he news has sent shock waves through Britain. After months of debate and agonised speculation about whoÂ could step into the immortal steps of Mel and Sue - let alone Mary Berry - we have an answer. 's new 'Mel and Sue' duo will be Sandi Toksvig and Noel Fielding, presenting alongside Paul Hollywood and Prue Leith. The choices are, to say the least, unexpected. Toksvig, the comedian and former voice of BBC Radio 4's , is co-founder of the Women's Equality Party. While Fielding, another comedian, is known for - not his skills in the kitchen. On Twitter, the jokes, punsÂ and panic around wild card Fielding are already flooding in: Sandi Toksvig and Noel Fielding to present Bake Off on Channel 4. That's an Amuse Boosh. Producer: Well, it worked before when we had a famous lesbian and one really random one. Celeb booker: Hold my beer. #GBBO Who's gonna break it to them #GBBO  pic.twitter.com/hlv0OIUlTF Noel Fielding is a Clear and Present Danger to Bake Off pic.twitter.com/FJfuxWMTYc "Noel Fielding and Sandi Toksvig to present the Great British Bake Off on Channel 4....no, skip that, Lynn, that's terrible. Awful idea." pic.twitter.com/I88P1Zyzgp ut, what we need to remember in this time of national panic is that things could have been worse. The new hosts may not be able to replace theÂ Mary Berry feat. Mel and Sue mash-up that some of us have come to love more than our own flesh and blood, but we must still appreciate the line-up Channel 4 has given us, because just imagine how we would have felt if any of these names had made it to GBBO... Piers Morgan More at home with Twitter brawls than proving drawers, the journalist is one person we're glad we'll never see anywhere near a soggy bottom. Gok Wan He might know how to look good naked, but does he know the difference between an Italian and a Swiss meringue? We think not. Chris Evans he presenter has done it all - from The Big Breakfast to Top Gear. Let's be thankful he never had the chance to add Bake Off to his CV. Konnie Huq You might have loved her on Blue Peter, but youÂ really don't need to see her on Bake Off - even if she will always have a finished product she's made earlier. Jeremy Clarkson The former Top Gear host would doubtless love nothing more than ganaching some buns on screen, but his provocative behaviour has no place in the twee Bake Off tent. Justin Lee Collins The stand-up comedian was once a Â host. After just one series, he was replaced by Claudia Winkleman. His short-lived time on says it all - let alone his time as a Mexican wrestler. Louis Walsh The X Factor judge might be a familiar TV face - but his track record for backing contestants suggests he might not be the best person to judge a choux bun. Coleen Nolan She might have won Celebrity Big Brother, but she exactly captureÂ the nation's hearts. Mary Berry she is not.

The news has sent shock waves through Britain. After months of debate and agonised speculation about whoÂ could step into the immortal steps of Mel and Sue - let alone Mary Berry - we have an answer.

Great British Bake Off's new 'Mel and Sue' duo will be Sandi Toksvig and Noel Fielding, presenting alongside Paul Hollywood and Prue Leith.

The choices are, to say the least, unexpected. Toksvig, the comedian and former voice of BBC Radio 4's The News Quiz, is co-founder of the Women's Equality Party. While Fielding, another comedian, is known for The Mighty Boosh - not his skills in the kitchen.

On Twitter, the jokes, punsÂ and panic around wild card Fielding are already flooding in: