Statue discovered in Cairo is NOT of pharoah Ramses II
Statue discovered in Cairo is NOT of famous pharoah Ramses II


A massive statue discovered in Cairo, which was thought to be of Ramases II, is a depiction of another ancient Egyptian ruler.

It is thought that the statue is of pharaoh Psamtek I, who ruled Egypt between 664 and 610 BC, according to antiquities minister Khaled el-Anani.

The artefact was found in an eastern Cairo suburb last week.

A statue that was found in Cairo, which was thought to be of pharaoh Ramases II, is a depiction of another pharaoh, Psamtek I

Psamtek I ruled Egypt between 664 and 610 BC, during the Empire's late period. Pictured centre, Professor Dietrich Raue, of the Egyptian Museum poses beside the pieces of the statue

Mr El-Anani spoke in front of the famous Egyptian museum in the heart of Cairo, just metres away from the parts of the statue, including the torso and a partial head.

They were ferried from the site to the museum early on Thursday.

The statue was thought to be of Ramses II, who ruled Egypt more than 3,000 years ago.

Antiquities minister Khaled el-Anani said it was almost definitely a statue of Psamtek I. The pieces of the statue were taken from the site in eastern Cairo to the Egyptian museum today

The parts of the statue include the torso and a partial head. The slabs were found in the Souq al-Khamis district of the capital city. Pictured, antiquities minister Khaled Enany with the statue

On Monday, the statue was pictured being dragged up from a muddy ditch.

When they thought it was Rameses II, experts said it was 'one of the most important discoveries ever' from a muddy ditch.

Experts descended on the Souq al-Khamis district of the capital Cairo and used a crane to lift the three-tonne torso of the statue.

The discovery was made near the ruins of Ramses II's temple in the ancient city of Heliopolis

The parts of the statue, pictured being unveiled, was dragged up from muddy water last Thursday

The discovery was made near the ruins of Ramses II's temple in the ancient city of Heliopolis.

The first part of the colossus - a large portion of the head - was pulled up on Thursday.

Pictured, a cat stretches out in the sun beside the artefacts before they were unveiled this evening at the Egyptian museum, Cairo

Pictures captured the moment archaeologists lifted a 3,000-year-old statue considered 'one of the most important discoveries ever' from a muddy ditch

Discovery: Egyptian workers pose next to the excavated three-tonne torso of the statue after it was lifted from a ditch

Egyptians look on as a crane lifts parts of a statue for restoration after it was unearthed at Souq al-Khamis district, at al-Matareya area, Cairo

Antiquities workers and reporters watch on as the statue's torso is slowly lifted out of the hole before being take away

Who is Psamtek I? Pharaoh Psamtek I ruled Egypt during the late period, beating 11 rivals to become leader. Pictured, a bust of the pharaoh Psamtek I ruled Egypt during the late period, between 664 and 332 BC. He beat out 11 other corulers in order to become the leader of Egypt in 663. When he became pharaoh, Egypt was still in the control of the Assyrian empire, but he managed to free the country within a decade of ruling. His throne name was Wah-ib-re, which means 'Constant is the heart of Re'. Psamtek spent the last four decades of his reign consolidating Egypt's power and encouraged Greeks to settle in the country. Even though he hated the Assyrian Empire, he joined forces with them when the Babylonian Empire became an established power.

The Ministry of Antiquities says the statue's parts would be assembled at the Egyptian museum in central Cairo, where they would be pieced together and restored before being moved to the yet-to-open Grand Egyptian Museum near the Giza Pyramids.

'Last Tuesday they called me to announce the big discovery of a colossus of a king, most probably Ramses II, made out of quartzite,' Antiquities Minister Khaled al-Anani told Reuters on Thursday at the site of the statue's unveiling.

'We found the bust of the statue and the lower part of the head and now we removed the head and we found the crown and the right ear and a fragment of the right eye,' Anani said.

Just days ago, archaeologists, officials, local residents, and members of the news media looked on as a massive forklift pulled the statue's head out of the water

The joint Egyptian-German expedition, which included the University of Leipzig, also found the upper part of a life-sized limestone statue of Pharaoh Seti II, Ramses II's grandson, which is 80 centimetres long.

A German-Egyptian archaeological mission found two 19th dynasty royal statues in the vicinity of King Ramses II temple in ancient Heliopolis

The statue was gently lifted to safety with the help of a crane as a crowd of dignitaries watched on in Cairo

WHAT DID THEY FIND? Archaeologists in a Cairo suburb - once the site of the ancient capital of Heliopolis - found two 3000-year-old pharaonic statues. The statues are thought to represent Pharaohs from the 19th dynasty. One statue stands 26ft (8 metres) tall and is carved out of quartzite - a tough stone composed mainly of quartz. It could not be identified from its engravings but it was found at the entrance to the temple of King Ramses II, also known as Ramses the Great. The other relic is a limestone statue of 12th century BC ruler King Seti II. The discovery of the two statues shows the importance of the city of Heliopolis, which was dedicated to the worship of Ra.

The three-tonne torso was pulled by a crane as dozens of workers supported it while being moved to dry land Monday

The Ministry of Antiquities says the statue's parts would be assembled at the Egyptian museum in central Cairo, where they would be pieced together and restored before being moved to the yet-to-open Grand Egyptian Museum near the Giza Pyramids

Statues of the kings and queens of the nineteenth dynasty (1295 - 1185 BC) were unearthed in the vicinity of the Temple of Ramses II in what was the old Pharonic city

Archaeologists from Egypt and Germany have found a massive 26ft (8 metre) statue submerged in ground water in a Cairo slum

Egyptian Antiquities Minister Khaled el-Anani (second left) and German ambassador to Egypt Julius Georg Luy (left) watch as the statue is lifted from the ditch

WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT HELIOPOLIS? Archaeologists found the statue in the Mattarya district which is the site of the ancient capital of Heliopolis. The ruins of Heliopolis, which means 'city of the sun' in ancient Greek, are located in the north eastern part of modern-day Cairo. The sun temple in Heliopolis was founded by Ramses II, which increases the likelihood that the statue is him. Ancient Egyptians believed Heliopolis was the place where the sun god lives, meaning it was off-limits for any royal residences. It was one of the largest temples in Egypt, almost double the size of Luxor's Karnak, but was destroyed in Greco-Roman times. Many of its obelisks were moved to Alexandria or to Europe and stones from the site were looted and used for building as Cairo developed.

Researchers found the bust of the statue and the lower part of the head (pictured) last week

Egyptian minister of antiquities Khaled el-Anani poses for picture with workers next to the head of a statue with a team of German-Egyptian archeologists in Cairo's Mattarya district

The statue stands eight meters (26 feet) tall and is carved out of quartzite, a tough stone composed mostly of quartz grains. Pictured is part of the torso before it was recovered

Experts will now attempt to extract the remaining pieces of the statue before restoring it

The head of the statue was submerged in ground water at the site of Ramases II's temple

The find could be a boon for Egypt's tourism industry, which has suffered many setbacks since the uprising that toppled autocrat Hosni Mubarak in 2011 but remains a vital source of foreign currency. Pictured are Egyptian works inspecting the statue

Pictured, Egyptian workers lift part of the head of a statue with a crane

The sun temple in Heliopolis was founded by Ramses II.

It was one of the largest temples in Egypt, almost double the size of Luxor's Karnak, but was destroyed in Greco-Roman times.

Many of its obelisks were moved to Alexandria or to Europe and stones from the site were looted and used for building as Cairo developed.

Experts will now attempt to extract the remaining pieces of both statues before restoring them.

If they are successful and the colossus is proven to depict Ramses II, it will be moved to the entrance of the Grand Egyptian Museum, set to open in 2018.

Pictured is part of an ancient Egyptian obelisk from the temple unearthed in the Matariya area in Cairo

The sun temple in Heliopolis was one of the largest temples in Egypt, almost double the size of Luxor's Karnak, but was destroyed in Greco-Roman times

The number of tourists visiting Egypt slumped to 9.8 million in 2011 from more than 14.7 million in 2010. Egyptian Minister of Antiquities Khaled E Nany (pictured kneeling left) inspects the findings, which could help the country to reinvigorate tourism

The discovery was made in the working class area of Matariya, among unfinished buildings and mud roads.

Dietrich Raue, head of the expedition's German team, said that ancient Egyptians believed Heliopolis was the place where the sun god lives, meaning it was off-limits for any royal residences.

'The sun god created the world in Heliopolis, in Matariya. That's what I always tell the people here when they say is there anything important. According to the pharaonic belief, the world was created in Matariya,' Raue said.

'That means everything had to be built here. Statues, temples, obelisks, everything. But ... the king never lived in Matariya, because it was the sun god living here.'

The find could be a boon for Egypt's tourism industry, which has suffered many setbacks since the uprising that toppled autocrat Hosni Mubarak in 2011 but remains a vital source of foreign currency.

The number of tourists visiting Egypt slumped to 9.8 million in 2011 from more than 14.7 million in 2010.

A bomb attack that brought down a Russian plane carrying 224 people from a Red Sea resort in October 2015 further hit arrivals, which dropped to 1.2 million in the first quarter of 2016 from 2.2 million a year earlier.

The discovery has excited the local community, with many posing for images alongside the mammoth statue

Workers spent hours digging out the giant statue, which is described as one of the most important discoveries ever made in the region

Dietrich Raue, head of the expedition's German team, said that ancient Egyptians believed Heliopolis was the place where the sun god lives. Workers are shown here digging for more relics int he area

Archaeologists from Egypt and Germany found the statue in Mattarya district - today a sprawl of working class districts in northeastern Cairo

A boy rides his bicycle past the recently discovered head of a statue in the Cairo slum

People gather near water which covered the site of a recently discovered statue in a Cairo slum. Egyptologist Khaled Nabil Osman said the statue was an 'impressive find' and that the area is likely to have other buried antiquities

Massive statues of the warrior-king can be seen in Luxor, and his most famous monument is found in Abu Simbel, near Sudan. Pictured is the latest discovery in Cairo

People walk past the recently discovered statue. The discovery was a joint effort between Egypt's Ministry of Antiquities and researchers from the University of Leipzig

Most of what was once Heliopolis is now covered with residential buildings. Locals in this image inspect the latest discovery

Egypt Minister of Antiquities Khaled El-Enany (centre) and Head of the German group Archaeologist Dietrich Rauo (right) visit the ancient Heliopolis archaeological site in Matareya following the discovery

Once the statue has been analysed, it will be moved to the entrance of the Grand Egyptian Museum, which is expected to open in 2018

Dietrich Raue, head of the expedition's German team, told Reuters that Heliopolis was off-limits for any royal residences. Pictured is the head of the statue

Archaeologists working under difficult conditions in Cairo had to recovered the ancient statue submerged in mud

Archaeologists, officials, local residents, and members of the news media looked on as a massive forklift pulled the statue's head out of the water