T.I. Reveals Dates For Hustle Gang Tour
T.I. Reveals Dates For Hustle Gang Tour
T.I. Reveals Dates For Hustle Gang Tour  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  With many hip-hop acts hitting the roadÂ includingÂ Future , Lil Wayne , and Chance the Rapper ,Â T.I. is set to join in on the fun withÂ his Hustle Gang tour.Â After embarking on his politically-charged Us or Else tour in Canada in support of his namesake project that dropped last December, T.I. is ready to continue his trekÂ this April with his Grand Hustle team. The outingÂ will kick off April 26 in Mobile, Alabama and conclude June 11Â in Jacksonville, Florida. During his 36-city trek, Tip and his crewÂ will touch down in notable cities including New York, Baltimore, Los Angeles, Dallas, and Orlando.Â Tickets will be available for an exclusive pre-saleÂ viaÂ Tidal.  Prior to announcing the news, the Atlanta rapperÂ blasted President Donald Trump for his tweet against Snoop Dogg Â in the midst of controversy surrounding the West Coast legend's "Lavender" video . "@snoopdoggÂ is a F--kin Legend u F--ing Tangerine Tanned Muskrat scrotum skin, Lacefront Possum fur Wig wearing, Alternative fact, Atomic Dog diarrhea face a--Â man!!!!," he wroteÂ on Instagram. He continued to target Trump with a barrage of insults after the Commander-in-Chief tossed the idea of "jail time" for Snoop's controversial video "Lavender."Â "Leave our legends names out ya f--kin old ass puppy piss smelling a--Â mouth & continue to focus on dividing minorities, building barriers, alienating immigrants, &f--kin this country up like u been doin.... #UWannaBeDictator#PresidentialLevelF--kBoy," he wrote. Take a look at the dates for Hustle Gang tour below.Â The exclusive presale for the #HustleGangTour is available on @TIDALHiFi !!! https://t.co/Q7FLpXX9Yu for tickets! #TIDALXTIP  pic.twitter.com/0BDFKbYMPH @Tip ANNOUNCED #HustleGangTour  #NEW 26APRIL TICKETS SALE @TIDALHiFi  https://t.co/MhVoybcXmb  #TIDALXTIP  #HHLMNEWS  #HHLM  #BAEGODGANG  #HHLMGANG  pic.twitter.com/IRtbpyloJm  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

T.I. performs at the Pandora Night Showcase during the 2017 SXSW Conference And Festivals on March 14, 2017 in Austin, Texas.

With many hip-hop acts hitting the roadÂ includingÂ Future, Lil Wayne, and Chance the Rapper,Â T.I. is set to join in on the fun withÂ his Hustle Gang tour.Â

After embarking on his politically-charged Us or Else tour in Canada in support of his namesake project that dropped last December, T.I. is ready to continue his trekÂ this April with his Grand Hustle team. The outingÂ will kick off April 26 in Mobile, Alabama and conclude June 11Â in Jacksonville, Florida.

During his 36-city trek, Tip and his crewÂ will touch down in notable cities including New York, Baltimore, Los Angeles, Dallas, and Orlando.Â Tickets will be available for an exclusive pre-saleÂ viaÂ Tidal.

Prior to announcing the news, the Atlanta rapperÂ blasted President Donald Trump for his tweet against Snoop DoggÂ in the midst of controversy surrounding the West Coast legend's "Lavender" video. "@snoopdoggÂ is a F--kin Legend u F--ing Tangerine Tanned Muskrat scrotum skin, Lacefront Possum fur Wig wearing, Alternative fact, Atomic Dog diarrhea face a--Â man!!!!," he wroteÂ on Instagram.

He continued to target Trump with a barrage of insults after the Commander-in-Chief tossed the idea of "jail time" for Snoop's controversial video "Lavender."Â "Leave our legends names out ya f--kin old ass puppy piss smelling a--Â mouth & continue to focus on dividing minorities, building barriers, alienating immigrants, &f--kin this country up like u been doin.... #UWannaBeDictator#PresidentialLevelF--kBoy," he wrote.

Take a look at the dates for Hustle Gang tour below.Â