California Today: In Persian Square, Anxious Over the Travel Ban
California Today: In Persian Square, Anxious Over the Travel Ban
The uncertainty surrounding the Trump administration’s executive order on immigration can be felt across California, especially in the cluster of kebab houses and Iranian-American businesses known as Little Tehran or Persian Square in Los Angeles, home to the world’s largest Iranian diaspora. The latest order, which was blocked on Wednesday, would have imposed a 90-day ban on citizens from Iran and five other predominantly Muslim countries from traveling to the U.S. The original ban, issued in January, was ultimately blocked by a federal appeals court. The chaos over the ban’s rollout has put into flux travel plans ahead of the most important Iranian cultural holiday, Nowruz . The 13-day secular celebration of the Persian New Year begins on the first day of spring, which is Monday. Nowruz (pronounced NO-rooz) dates back thousands of years to the old Iranian solar calendar. It’s a part of the cycle of planting and harvesting and renewal. California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy “There is lots of anxiety in the community,” said Peyman Malaz, program manager in the Los Angeles office of Pars Equality Center , an Iranian-American advocacy group. “Everyone is terrified actually. Everything is uncertain.” Advertisement Southern California has the nation’s biggest concentration of Iranian-Americans, numbering in the hundreds of thousands. They arrived here nearly 40 years ago, after the Islamic Revolution in 1979, in search of social, political and religious freedom. Many of them have family members back in their homeland, and fears of traveling are preventing some of them from reuniting, dampening a holiday centered on family, gifts and joy. Advertisement If you, your family or friends are members of the Iranian community and are affected by the havoc caused by the travel bans, we’d like to hear from you. Please email us at catoday@nytimes.com . Advertisement • were behind a criminal conspiracy that stole data on 500 million Yahoo accounts, officials said. [ The New York Times ] • How Representative , a Huntington Beach Republican, became a leading defender of Russia. [ Los Angeles Times ] Advertisement • Former Los Angeles County Sheriff was found guilty of obstructing a federal investigation. [ The New York Times ] • have been lurking at courthouses to arrest people in the country illegally. [ Los Angeles Times ] Advertisement • declared itself a “sanctuary city.” [ East Bay Times ] • , a Democratic congressman from Los Angeles, has emerged as an unexpected face of resistance to the Trump administration. [ New Yorker ] Advertisement • “We are not backing down.” California is poised to pursue . [ Reuters ] Advertisement • “I think this is justice,” said a Los Angeles County judge as she threw out the murder conviction of a man who spent . [ Los Angeles Times ] • A mob tore through a , stealing $30,000 worth of stuffed animals and other prizes. [ KRON ] Advertisement • At , the underdog Nick Kyrgios stunned Novak Djokovic, and Roger Federer conquered Rafael Nadal. [ The New York Times ] • died at his home in Modesto. The rock climbing pioneer was a powerful advocate for clean climbing. He was 82. [ The New York Times ] • was well represented among the nominees for the 2017 , the culinary honors. [ San Francisco Chronicle ] • ... So was . [ Los Angeles Times ] • After decades of false starts, final opus is closer to being completed. [ The New York Times ] Advertisement • After 10 years in New York, a photographer moved back to her Los Angeles hometown — with a critical eye. [ The New York Times ] Advertisement • The , in Los Angeles, draws on Holocaust narratives to inspire hard discussions about present-day prejudice. [ The New York Times ] Advertisement As lookouts go, Peñon Peak is hard to beat. The perch in the Santa Lucia Mountains offers 360-degree views — Santa Cruz to the north, Carmel Valley to the east, Big Sur to the south, and Carmel Bay to the west. That’s why it was chosen to host a fire lookout station for many years. William Guion, a reader, shared an image he captured of Peñon Peak at sunrise in late 2015. Advertisement The small structure atop the crest, on the left side of the photo, is the Sid Ormsbee Fire Lookout, built in 1948. Named after a ranger from Santa Cruz who died in World War II, it was used as a live-in fire station overlooking the Monterey Peninsula until the mid-1980s. Access, sadly, is limited. Peñon Peak, along with 20,000 surrounding acres, is part of Santa Lucia Preserve , a gated community that doubles as a natural preserve. Mr. Guion, 66, said you can sometimes get permission to enter, as he did, from the Santa Lucia Conservancy , which cares for the natural lands. Advertisement Or, you could just buy a home there — prices are upward of $4 million . Advertisement We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

Good morning.

(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Adeel Hassan, a reporter based in New York, provides today’s introduction.

The uncertainty surrounding the Trump administration’s executive order on immigration can be felt across California, especially in the cluster of kebab houses and Iranian-American businesses known as Little Tehran or Persian Square in Los Angeles, home to the world’s largest Iranian diaspora.

The latest order, which was blocked on Wednesday, would have imposed a 90-day ban on citizens from Iran and five other predominantly Muslim countries from traveling to the U.S. The original ban, issued in January, was ultimately blocked by a federal appeals court.

The chaos over the ban’s rollout has put into flux travel plans ahead of the most important Iranian cultural holiday, Nowruz. The 13-day secular celebration of the Persian New Year begins on the first day of spring, which is Monday. Nowruz (pronounced NO-rooz) dates back thousands of years to the old Iranian solar calendar. It’s a part of the cycle of planting and harvesting and renewal.

California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state). Sign up to get it by email. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“There is lots of anxiety in the community,” said Peyman Malaz, program manager in the Los Angeles office of Pars Equality Center, an Iranian-American advocacy group. “Everyone is terrified actually. Everything is uncertain.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Southern California has the nation’s biggest concentration of Iranian-Americans, numbering in the hundreds of thousands. They arrived here nearly 40 years ago, after the Islamic Revolution in 1979, in search of social, political and religious freedom. Many of them have family members back in their homeland, and fears of traveling are preventing some of them from reuniting, dampening a holiday centered on family, gifts and joy.