Shaquille O'Neal furnishes home of Atlanta girl who survived dog attack
Shaq furnishes home of girl in dog attack
Shaq furnishes home of girl in dog attack Trivial Taters: Someone is sending personalized potatoes to NBA players Inside the numbers on LeBron's crazy workload Backup plans for fantasy players who may be shut down India's Singh toils toward still-distant NBA breakthrough Cavaliers settle for second-best, which is plenty good enough The driving force of Russell Westbrook Rockets practice with strobe glasses and new high-tech tracking Wade's speech, team card game help right Bulls' season Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment ATLANTA -- Shaquille O'Neal has bought new furniture for the family of a 5-year-old Atlanta girl who survived a dog attack that left another child dead. WAGA-TV reports Syari Sanders returned home this week after being hospitalized since the Jan. 17 attack. Syari and 6-year-old Logan Braatz were walking to a bus stop when they were attacked by two dogs. Logan died from his injuries. The dogs' owner has been charged with involuntary manslaughter and reckless conduct. O'Neal met Sanders and her family at an Atlanta furniture store and picked up the tab for new items. The family tells WAGA that the former NBA star and current TNT analyst has been involved with the family since the attack. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

ATLANTA -- Shaquille O'Neal has bought new furniture for the family of a 5-year-old Atlanta girl who survived a dog attack that left another child dead.

WAGA-TV reports Syari Sanders returned home this week after being hospitalized since the Jan. 17 attack. Syari and 6-year-old Logan Braatz were walking to a bus stop when they were attacked by two dogs. Logan died from his injuries. The dogs' owner has been charged with involuntary manslaughter and reckless conduct.

O'Neal met Sanders and her family at an Atlanta furniture store and picked up the tab for new items. The family tells WAGA that the former NBA star and current TNT analyst has been involved with the family since the attack.