How To Train A Machine Brain, Pentaho's 4 Pillars Of AI
How To Train A Machine Brain, Pentaho's 4 Pillars Of AI
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Adrian Bridgwater       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Adrian Bridgwater First we teach the machines, then we teach the machines to learn, next we need to 'orchestrate' the machine brain so it learns even faster. Now in its guise as a Hitachi Group Company, Pentaho continues its work as a data analytics business. Focusing on an area that we might label as 'information orchestration' (not a proper or even de facto term), the company is aiming to help firms navigate and direct their machine learning data better. What Pentaho is doing here is essentially focused on collaboration. The firm insists that most enterprises currently trying to use AI and machine learning automation usually struggle to put predictive models to work because data professionals often operate in silos and the workflow - from data preparation to updating models - ends up creating bottlenecks. These technologies are happening. It's real AI and machine learning for business. It's real use of the word 'automation' to signify the automatic execution of business procedures that do not need a real person being to be present with our feeble human level of decision making. The question of how we train computer brains at this intersection of technology and business (and the challenges this throws up that firms like Pentaho are trying to address) could well provide us, now, with some early indicators as to how far these advancements will go in the near future. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Adrian Bridgwater

Now in its guise as a Hitachi Group Company, Pentaho continues its work as a data analytics business. Focusing on an area that we might label as 'information orchestration' (not a proper or even de facto term), the company is aiming to help firms navigate and direct their machine learning data better.

Train, tune, test & deploy

With machine learning residing at the heart of our new understanding of Artificial Intelligence (AI) as it does, there is (arguably) a real need for IT departments to be able train, tune, test and deploy the predictive models they are using to create what we call 'automation intelligence' and make AI for business happen.

What Pentaho is doing here is essentially focused on collaboration. The firm insists that most enterprises currently trying to use AI and machine learning automation usually struggle to put predictive models to work because data professionals often operate in silos and the workflow - from data preparation to updating models - ends up creating bottlenecks.

Four lobes of a machine brain

As an answer then, Pentaho’s Data Integration and analytics platform aims to end the ‘gridlock’ associated with machine learning by enabling smoother team collaboration. The company says that its reach in this field spans four pillars, which, in effect, almost come to represent the four lobes of the machine brain we are trying to build here.

Data & feature engineering - tools to helps data scientists and engineers 'prepare and blend' traditional data sources like ERP, EAM and big data sources like sensors and social media.

Pentaho has also addressed the 'notoriously difficult' task of so-called feature engineering (i.e. working out what functions the machine brain we are building here will actually be able to perform) by automating data onboarding, data transformation and data validation.

Model training, tuning & testing - Data scientists often apply trial and error to strike the right balance of complexity, performance and accuracy in their models. With machine learning packages like Spark MLlib and Weka, Pentaho says it allows data scientists to train, tune, build and test models faster.

Model deployment & operationalization – a completely trained, tuned and tested machine learning model still needs to be deployed. Pentaho is aiming at allowing data professionals to embed models developed by data scientists directly in a data workflow. That way we can actually start to use AI for business and use 'embeddable APIs' so we can put that power across an organization's whole base of applications.

Update models regularly - According to Ventana Research, less than a third (31%) of organizations use an automated process to update their models. Here we see Pentaho working to help re-train existing models with new data sets or make feature updates using custom execution steps.

“In 2017 we’re working with early adopters looking to transform their businesses with machine learning. Fortunately our early foray into big data analytics gave us the insight to solve some of the toughest challenges in this area," said Wael Elrifai, director of worldwide enterprise data science at Pentaho.

Hitachi Rail Trains-as-a-Service

Hitachi Rail uses Pentaho with its Hyper Scale-Out Platform to fulfil its Trains-as-a-Service concept, applying advanced IoT technology in three event horizons: real-time (monitoring, fault alerting), medium-term (predictive maintenance) and long-term (big data trend analysis).

With each train carrying thousands of sensors generating huge amounts of data per day, the project’s data engineers and scientists face many challenges associated with big data and machine learning. Although the project is not yet operational, Pentaho is already helping to deliver productivity improvements across the business.

AI is happening

These technologies are happening. It's real AI and machine learning for business. It's real use of the word 'automation' to signify the automatic execution of business procedures that do not need a real person being to be present with our feeble human level of decision making.

The question of how we train computer brains at this intersection of technology and business (and the challenges this throws up that firms like Pentaho are trying to address) could well provide us, now, with some early indicators as to how far these advancements will go in the near future.

Follow Adrian Bridgwater on Twitter