A map of the countries that eat the most meat
A map of the countries that eat the most meat
In 2014 the report outlined the areas of the world that consume the most meat.  In 2014 they reported: Overall, the global demand for meat is growing, but at different rates in different regions. In Europe and the United States, the biggest meat producers in the 20th century, consumption is growing slowly, or is even stagnating. On the other hand, the booming economies in Asia and elsewhere, will see around 80 percent of the growth in the meat sector by 2022. The biggest growth will be in China and India because of huge demand from their new middle classes. You can read the full report here . In 2016, the Food and Agriculture Organization, in conjunction with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, produced the It predicts meat of all kinds to rise consumption in a number of regions.  Here's how they'll change in just over a decade:  We should expect poultry to see the biggest growth worldwide.                    Keep scrolling for next article

The EU, the United States, China and Brazil are the countries most responsible for the consumption of meat in the world.

In 2014 the Meat Atlas report outlined the areas of the world that consume the most meat.

Picture: Meat Atlas

In 2014 they reported:

Overall, the global demand for meat is growing, but at different rates in different regions. In Europe and the United States, the biggest meat producers in the 20th century, consumption is growing slowly, or is even stagnating. On the other hand, the booming economies in Asia and elsewhere, will see around 80 percent of the growth in the meat sector by 2022. The biggest growth will be in China and India because of huge demand from their new middle classes.

You can read the full report here.

In 2016, the Food and Agriculture Organization, in conjunction with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, produced the Agricultural Outlook 2016-2025 report.

It predicts meat of all kinds to rise consumption in a number of regions.

Here's how they'll change in just over a decade:

We should expect poultry to see the biggest growth worldwide.

HT OECD

More: The map of the countries that eat the most meat