Rick Ross Drops His 'Rather You Than Me' Album, f/ Future, Gucci Mane, Nas, and More
Rick Ross Drops His 'Rather You Than Me' Album, f/ Future, Gucci Mane, Nas, and More
Rick Ross has officially rolled out his ninth solo studio album, . The 14-track LP is Ross’ first full-length project since 2015’s . It’s also his first album release since he left Def Jam and inked a deal with Epic Records in early 2016. Prior to the official drop, the 41-year-old rapper blessed fans with a handful of previews, including “I Think She Like Me” with Ty Dolla Sign, “Trap Trap Trap” featuring Young Thug and Wale, as well as his most recent promotional single, “Dead Presidents” assisted by Future, Jeezy, and Young Gotti. “I owed [ ] to my supporters. Y’all that been rocking with me since we came out the port of Miami,” the MMG boss wrote in an open letter . “[…] I hope ya’ll feel this. Listen to the message, relate to the story, feel the pain and struggle in these lyrics—but more importantly, understand that there is a greater life on the other side of those nightmares.” The album also includes the Birdman diss track “Idols Become Rivals” as well as another installment of Ross’ “Maybach Music” song series. In addition, there are big-name guest appearances by everyone from Meek Mill and Gucci Mane to Nas and Dej Loaf. is available now on iTunes and Apple Music .

Rick Ross has officially rolled out his ninth solo studio album, Rather You Than Me.

The 14-track LP is Ross’ first full-length project since 2015’s Black Market. It’s also his first album release since he left Def Jam and inked a deal with Epic Records in early 2016.

Prior to the official drop, the 41-year-old rapper blessed fans with a handful of previews, including “I Think She Like Me” with Ty Dolla Sign, “Trap Trap Trap” featuring Young Thug and Wale, as well as his most recent promotional single, “Dead Presidents” assisted by Future, Jeezy, and Young Gotti.

“I owed [Rather You Than Me] to my supporters. Y’all that been rocking with me since we came out the port of Miami,” the MMG boss wrote in an open letter. “[…] I hope ya’ll feel this. Listen to the message, relate to the story, feel the pain and struggle in these lyrics—but more importantly, understand that there is a greater life on the other side of those nightmares.”

The album also includes the Birdman diss track “Idols Become Rivals” as well as another installment of Ross’ “Maybach Music” song series. In addition, there are big-name guest appearances by everyone from Meek Mill and Gucci Mane to Nas and Dej Loaf.

Rather You Than Me is available now on iTunes and Apple Music.