BBC reporter describes up-close encounter with Mount Etna eruption
BBC reporter describes up-close encounter with Mount Etna eruption
Shares               A team from the BBC as well as some tourists were injured after Mount Etna, an active volcano on the east coast of Sicily, erupted, sending boiling hot rocks shooting through the air. Rebecca Morelle, global science correspondent for BBC News, spoke to ABC News about what it was like to survive an eruption of what she called "one of world’s most active volcanoes." Morelle said the she and her crew were "about [30 feet] away" from the explosion as it happened, and that the injuries sustained by her crew and the tourists included cuts, bruises, some burns, and a dislocated shoulder. The snow vehicle used by her crew had its windows broken by the blast, she said, and a big chunk was torn off of the roof.   She said that although blood was shed, everyone was eventually brought down in one piece. "It happened as the lava hit ice and snow, Morelle told ABC News. "This doesn’t normally happen when a lava flow is so slow moving. You could actually see it very slowly inching its way down. The last eruption they had here happened a few weeks ago, and it just went down without incident. That’s why tourists are regularly brought up to see the sight -- because it is a spectacular sight." Morelle described the turn of events as being completely unexpected. "I was extremely scared. You know I cover science. You travel all around the world, you look at volcanoes, you look at all sorts of cool things, but you don’t really expect to find yourself in the middle of an instant like that, she said. Despite her terrifying encounter, Morelle described what happened at Mount Etna as being a rare occurrence. "I think it really does take home that volcanoes really are an incredibly unpredictable and deadly force of nature," Morelle said. "Mount Etna is one of the world’s most active volcanoes, but they’ve had very few instances where people have got hurt."  Shares                  BBC reporter describes up-close encounter with Mount Etna eruption   Spicer continues to defend Trump's wiretapping claims   GOP health care bill narrowly clears a committee despite conservative opposition   McDonald's 'compromised' Twitter account called Trump a 'disgusting excuse of a president'   Detroit suspect attacked officers 'unprovoked' with apparent intention to kill: Police   10-year-old boy dies after being trapped in snow pile from late-winter storm   French school shooting: 4 shot, 10 hurt, student arrested   Letter bomb explodes at Paris IMF's office; Greek ties seen   Authorities identify teen suspect in fire at Michigan mosque   Centrist European leaders celebrate Dutch election result   N. Korea diplomat: Malaysia killing was US, S. Korea conspiracy   British PM, Scottish leader tussle over independence vote   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Yahoo breach spotlights links between Russian spies, hackers   Trump calls for privatizing air traffic control operations   Malaysia says it has family consent to decide on Kim's body   What's next for Trump's revised travel ban   Hawaii judge puts Trump's revised travel ban on hold   Foreign medical students say travel ban places their futures in jeopardy   Video shows passer-by shooting Florida deputy's attacker   PT boat from WWII rides old test course 'like a thoroughbred'   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Report: Fernandez was likely operating boat in fatal crash   Russian spy ship returns to East Coast of US   Selena Gomez speaks out about mental health   Aloha! Barack Obama visits Hawaii   Prince Harry speaks to veterans about mental health

A team from the BBC as well as some tourists were injured after Mount Etna, an active volcano on the east coast of Sicily, erupted, sending boiling hot rocks shooting through the air.

Rebecca Morelle, global science correspondent for BBC News, spoke to ABC News about what it was like to survive an eruption of what she called "one of world’s most active volcanoes."

Morelle said the she and her crew were "about [30 feet] away" from the explosion as it happened, and that the injuries sustained by her crew and the tourists included cuts, bruises, some burns, and a dislocated shoulder.

The snow vehicle used by her crew had its windows broken by the blast, she said, and a big chunk was torn off of the roof.

Salvatore Allegra/AP Photo

She said that although blood was shed, everyone was eventually brought down in one piece.

"It happened as the lava hit ice and snow, Morelle told ABC News. "This doesn’t normally happen when a lava flow is so slow moving. You could actually see it very slowly inching its way down. The last eruption they had here happened a few weeks ago, and it just went down without incident. That’s why tourists are regularly brought up to see the sight -- because it is a spectacular sight."

Morelle described the turn of events as being completely unexpected.

"I was extremely scared. You know I cover science. You travel all around the world, you look at volcanoes, you look at all sorts of cool things, but you don’t really expect to find yourself in the middle of an instant like that, she said.

Despite her terrifying encounter, Morelle described what happened at Mount Etna as being a rare occurrence.

"I think it really does take home that volcanoes really are an incredibly unpredictable and deadly force of nature," Morelle said. "Mount Etna is one of the world’s most active volcanoes, but they’ve had very few instances where people have got hurt."

ABC News' Amanda Maile contributed to this report.