MS Dhoni Has Narrow Escape As He Is Rescued From A Fire At His Hotel In Dwarka
MS Dhoni Has Narrow Escape As He Is Rescued From A Fire At His Hotel In Dwarka
MS Dhoni Has Narrow Escape As He Is Rescued From A Fire At His Hotel In Dwarka In what is a narrow escape for MS Dhoni, the former captain was rescued after his hotel caught fire. He was staying in Dwarka where the incident happened. The former Indian skipper is in Delhi leading Jharkhand in the Vijay Hazare Trophy semis against Bengal. According to TV reports, the mall next to the hotel caught fire first before the flames spread to the neighbouring building. No casualties were reported, Delhi Fire Services said. They added that they got a call around 6:30 am alerting them there was a fire inside the WelcomHotel, which is located in Sector 10, Dwarka. As many as 30 fire tenders were sent to the spot and the fire was brought under control at 7:50am. It was reported to have taken place around 5.30 am today, and it is believed that the cricketing gear has also been burnt in the fire. The semifinal has been postponed.

In what is a narrow escape for MS Dhoni, the former captain was rescued after his hotel caught fire.

PTI/Twitter

He was staying in Dwarka where the incident happened. The former Indian skipper is in Delhi leading Jharkhand in the Vijay Hazare Trophy semis against Bengal.

According to TV reports, the mall next to the hotel caught fire first before the flames spread to the neighbouring building.

ANI

No casualties were reported, Delhi Fire Services said. They added that they got a call around 6:30 am alerting them there was a fire inside the WelcomHotel, which is located in Sector 10, Dwarka. As many as 30 fire tenders were sent to the spot and the fire was brought under control at 7:50am.

PTI

It was reported to have taken place around 5.30 am today, and it is believed that the cricketing gear has also been burnt in the fire.

The semifinal has been postponed.

Don't Miss 3.4 K SHARES 122.1 K SHARES 30.5 K SHARES 6.8 K SHARES