Cleveland bar customers fight back during armed robbery
Cleveland bar customers fight back during armed robbery
Ohio Cleveland bar customers fight back during armed robbery By  A group of regulars at a Cleveland bar took matters into their own hands during an armed robbery.
	                        
	                        	 (FOX 8 Cleveland) A group of regulars at a Cleveland bar took matters into their own hands during an armed robbery last weekend. Police told FOX 8 Cleveland Kenneth Wheeler entered the Brickhouse Bar with a gun around 7 p.m. Saturday and demanded the bartender empty the cash register. Related stories...  Attempted robbers apologize after victim rebuffs crime   Prison for 2 ex-cops in scheme to rob drug dealers, get cash   Teens accused of plot to rob, kill girl found shot in ditch  After pointing his gun at patrons, Wheeler then started waving his gun back and forth, providing an opportunity for two regular customers sitting at the bar to take action. "One tackled him to the ground. The other kicked the gun out of his hands," Michael Gilbert, who witnesses the whole incident, told Fox 8. "I don't know what happened after that, it went too fast. We just rushed him and I saw him go down." The pair held Wheeler down on the ground until police arrived. The 31-year-old is now in jail facing aggravated robbery charges.

A group of regulars at a Cleveland bar took matters into their own hands during an armed robbery last weekend.

Police told FOX 8 Cleveland Kenneth Wheeler entered the Brickhouse Bar with a gun around 7 p.m. Saturday and demanded the bartender empty the cash register.

After pointing his gun at patrons, Wheeler then started waving his gun back and forth, providing an opportunity for two regular customers sitting at the bar to take action.

"One tackled him to the ground. The other kicked the gun out of his hands," Michael Gilbert, who witnesses the whole incident, told Fox 8. "I don't know what happened after that, it went too fast. We just rushed him and I saw him go down."

The pair held Wheeler down on the ground until police arrived.

The 31-year-old is now in jail facing aggravated robbery charges.

Read more from FOX8.com.