Watch A Priest, Rabbi And Atheist Smoke Weed And Talk Religion
Watch A Priest, Rabbi And Atheist Smoke Weed And Talk Religion
They seek the truth from on high. A rabbi, a priest and an atheist share bong hits and philosophy in a viral video posted Wednesday. This isn’t a bar joke. The clip was produced by Cut in Washington state, where recreational marijuana use is legal. The rabbi, Jim Mirel , is the Rabbi Emeritus at Temple B’nai Torah in Bellevue. The priest, Rev. Chris Schuller, once served as the rector at St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church in St. Petersburg, Florida, and later made news for posting a pro-marijuana video . The atheist, Carlos, describes himself as a “conservative homosexual” who grew up in both the Southern Baptist and Roman Catholic faiths. At one point in their spiritual chat, the rabbi says of cannabis: “If it helps you become a better person, if it lifts you up, gives you a new view of life, it’s a very positive thing.” We imagine there are plenty of viewers saying amen to that. Watch above as the spiritual brotherhood between the three thickens along with the smoke. Now pass that bong, rabbi.  h/t Mashable ALSO ON HUFFPOST Most Influential People Who've Used Marijuana       Share this slide:       MORE:

They seek the truth from on high.

A rabbi, a priest and an atheist share bong hits and philosophy in a viral video posted Wednesday.

This isn’t a bar joke. The clip was produced by Cut in Washington state, where recreational marijuana use is legal. The rabbi, Jim Mirel, is the Rabbi Emeritus at Temple B’nai Torah in Bellevue. The priest, Rev. Chris Schuller, once served as the rector at St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church in St. Petersburg, Florida, and later made news for posting a pro-marijuana video. The atheist, Carlos, describes himself as a “conservative homosexual” who grew up in both the Southern Baptist and Roman Catholic faiths.

At one point in their spiritual chat, the rabbi says of cannabis: “If it helps you become a better person, if it lifts you up, gives you a new view of life, it’s a very positive thing.”

We imagine there are plenty of viewers saying amen to that.

Watch above as the spiritual brotherhood between the three thickens along with the smoke.

Now pass that bong, rabbi.