FTSE 100 struggles for direction as the first G20 finance meeting of the Trump era gets underway
FTSE 100 struggles for direction as the first G20 finance meeting of the Trump era gets underway
Pound edges lower as Europe comes into play European bourses dip after Fed-induced rally Banking stocks rise on rate hike talk Investors eye G20 finance ministers meeting China stocks suffer worst day in three months Auto update G20 finance meeting: What's on the agenda has compiled a very useful list of topics on the agenda at today's G20 finance meeting: The main theme of the meeting is likely to be the degree of consensus against protectionism that all G20 countries will be able to agree on, given protectionist views of the new U.S. administration of Donald Trump such as the border tax on imports. Last September, G20 leaders declared "opposition to protectionism on trade and investment in all its forms" in a pledge that has appeared in most G20 communiques for a decade. While discussions on exchange rate policies are usually conducted among the G7 countries - United States, Canada, Japan, Germany, France, Italy and Britain - the G20 also tends to include some reference to currencies in its statement. The phrase that has appeared with some variations in many G20 statements in the past is similar to the one adopted during last year's Chinese presidency of the group:"We reiterate that excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates can have adverse implications for economic and financial stability. Our relevant authorities will consult closely on exchange markets. We reaffirm our previous exchange rate commitments, including that we will refrain from competitive devaluations and we will not target our exchange rates for competitive purposes." The early draft of the Baden-Baden meeting does not contain these phrases, but officials from several G20 members have told Reuters they would push for the words to be included in the end so as not to alarm markets that the G20 approach has changed. G20 leaders agreed in 2014 in Australia to launch reforms that would help boost global economic growth by an additional 2 percent of gross domestic product over five years until the end of 2018, adding an extra $2 trillion to the global economy. Each G20 country was to propose reforms, called a growth strategy, that would boost GDP. Their effectiveness and implementation is checked by peers, the IMF and the OECD. Last September, G20 leaders said: "We are making further progress towards the implementation of our growth strategies, but much more needs to be done", emphasising implementation. To help focus minds on the growth strategies and make it easier to reject protectionism, Germany wants the G20 to sign up to a list of principles to make economies more resilient to shocks. These would include sound public finances, reducing vulnerabilities in the private sector, a favourable business environment, a flexible labour market and efficient social security systems. The early draft G20 communique seen by Reuters says: "We agree on a set of principles to foster economic resilience which provides an indicative menu that will guide us in choosing country-specific commitments to strengthen economic resilience." The G20 are also likely to agree to act together to stop hackers from infiltrating and damaging networks of banks and other financial institutions. Finally the ministers will push for the implementation of a scheme that is to deter large international companies such as Google, Starbucks, Amazon, Facebook or EBay from aggressive tax avoidance strategies that exploit gaps and mismatches in tax rules to artificially shift profits to low or no-tax locations. The scheme is called Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) and encompasses over 100 countries and jurisdictions. G20 ministers expect the OECD to prepare by July, when G20 leaders are to meet in the German city of Hamburg, a list of countries that do not want to cooperate in this scheme. "Defensive measures will be considered against listed jurisdictions," the G20 draft communique said. Who attends the G20 finance meeting? inance ministers and central bank governors from the world's top 20 economies will meet in the German spa town of Baden-Baden on March 17-18 to discuss the global economy. Let's take a look at who will be in attendance: The G20 includes: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the European Union, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States. It also comprises a total of 12 institutions, including the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Germany, which holds the rotating chair of the G20 this year, has also invited to Baden-Baden as guests Ivory Coast, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Rwanda, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland and Tunisia. Banking stocks gain on rate hike chatter lthough European bourses faltered at the opening bell, banking stocks made gains after an ECB policymaker rekindled talk of a possible rate hike. ECB policymaker Ewald Nowotny said the central bank will decide at a later time whether to raise interest rates before or after ending its bond purchase programme. Shares in Royal Bank of Scotland rose 1.3pc, Barclays  added 0.7pc and Lloyds climbed 0.2pc. European bourses dip as miners retreat uropean bourses have struggled for direction at the opening bell after a stellar trading session yesterday. Mining stocks, which lead markets higher, have retreated in early trade. Here's a snapshot of the current state of play:  said: "Calls for a slightly negative open come after the US dollar finds a floor overnight following two days of Fed-inspired weakness further exacerbated by a hawkish BoE, applying the brakes to the commodity sector rally that took off after the central bank stuck to its guns regarding further rate hikes. This could, however, provide some upside for the UK’s FTSE 100 as its international contingent benefit from translational gains derived from GBP weakness." China stocks post worst day in three months China's main stock indexes fell on Friday, posting their worst day since last December, as investors await fresh evidence of a sustainable recovery in the world's second-largest economy. he blue-chip CSI300 index and the Shanghai Composite Index both lost around 1 percent to 3,445.81 points and 3,237.45 points, respectively. For the week, the CSI was up 0.5pc, while the gained 0.8pc. China's central bank on Thursday raised short-term interest rates in what economists said was a bid to stave off capital outflows and keep the yuan currency stable after the raised U.S. rates overnight. he central bank tried to soothe jitters by saying the interbank rate increase did not point to any change in its monetary policies and was not tantamount to a hike in its benchmark policy rate. But analysts said the rate moves, more of which are expected, will eventually translate into higher borrowing costs for Chinese companies and consumers. For the day, most sectors lost ground, dragged down by material  plays and by banking stocks, as higher borrowing costs typically pressure rate-sensitive sectors such as property and banking. Agenda: First G20 finance ministers meeting of the Trump era ood morning and welcome to our live markets coverage. Today, the G20 finance ministers and central bankers will hold their first meeting of the year in Baden-Baden, Germany, today and tomorrow. Most notably, it is the first G20 meeting of the Trump era.  Already, analysts have said the US dollar is on the defensive on the run up to both the Fed and G20 meetings. US Dollar Index DXY lower ahead of #G20 gathering and the meeting between US president Trump and Germany's Angela Merkel. pic.twitter.com/Du0pWEB6hP arlier in the week, Lee Hardman, of MUFG, cautioned: “ The US dollar could be vulnerable to the downside if the Trump administration provides further rhetoric displaying concern over the strength of the US dollar and over other countries policies which have encouraged weak domestic currencies such as in Europe, Japan, and China.” Don't even imagine the ambiance in that #G20 . pic.twitter.com/MzYvwXJnZl lso on the agenda: React Group Goodwin Investec, SThree, Berkeley Group Premier African Minerals, Chemring Group, Spitfire Oil, Toro industrial production m/m (US), capacity utilisation rate (US), preliminary UoM inflation expectations (US), preliminary UoM consumer sentiment (US), trade balance (EU), consumer confidence (EU) FTSE 100 expected to open down 12 points courtesy of IG at 7.50am

Finance ministers and central bank governors from the world's top 20 economies will meet in the German spa town of Baden-Baden on March 17-18 to discuss the global economy.

Let's take a look at who will be in attendance: