A Sheriff and His Fiancée Scared Friends and Family With Their Wedding Invitations
A Sheriff and His Fiancée Scared Friends and Family With Their Wedding Invitations
For your wedding invitations, you can go to a stationery store to purchase pricey cardstock, hire a professional calligrapher, and craft some flowery language that would make Emily Post proud. Or you can throw out etiquette and send an informal invite that represents your delightfully sick sense of humor. A sheriff and his fiancée went with option B, which probably scared the pants off some of their friends and family. The couple, known to us only as Matt and Nancy, designed their invitations to look like a notice of appearance from the sheriff’s department. The niece of the bride-to-be is Gina Darling, a model and Youtube vlogger, who shared their clever joke on Instagram and Imgur on Wednesday. “Y’all. My aunt’s marrying a sheriff and this is their invitation,” she wrote on Instagram . “Damn near gave everyone in my family a heart attack. LMAO she’s evil.” The envelope, marked urgent, might be the scariest part of this whole thing. Even the most law-abiding citizen would look at that and panic about whether they’d paid all their parking tickets or perhaps missed a jury duty summons in the mail. One might be tempted to toss the whole thing in the trash and hit the road. Here’s hoping no one in the family has a questionable immigration status, as such notices to appear mean something altogether more frightening for them. Inside, the invitation is much more lighthearted, despite looking a heck of a lot like a ticket. The blocked-out area up top seems to state the couple’s name, calming the hearts of readers right away. Then all the sections pertain to the when, where, and what of the wedding day. Judging by this gimmick, this is a party we wouldn’t want to miss. “HAHAHAHHA I’m dead. I would’ve been like, wtf did I do???” one follower commented. Many immediately wanted to crib the idea. “I want to know where she got the wedding invitation!! I want to copy hers!” wrote another follower. We found one source, for anyone interested. As hinted in the wording up top that mentions the couple “graduating,” this is actually a funny way some police academy cadets have invited their friends and family to their graduation. There are a few templates for that purpose available on Etsy . ‘Say Yes to the Dress’ Will Feature Transgender Bride Not Even an Exploding Bus Can Keep This Bride and Groom Down The Incredible Wedding You Need to Know Everything About

For your wedding invitations, you can go to a stationery store to purchase pricey cardstock, hire a professional calligrapher, and craft some flowery language that would make Emily Post proud. Or you can throw out etiquette and send an informal invite that represents your delightfully sick sense of humor. A sheriff and his fiancée went with option B, which probably scared the pants off some of their friends and family.

The couple, known to us only as Matt and Nancy, designed their invitations to look like a notice of appearance from the sheriff’s department. The niece of the bride-to-be is Gina Darling, a model and Youtube vlogger, who shared their clever joke on Instagram and Imgur on Wednesday.





“Y’all. My aunt’s marrying a sheriff and this is their invitation,” she wrote on Instagram. “Damn near gave everyone in my family a heart attack. LMAO she’s evil.”

The envelope, marked urgent, might be the scariest part of this whole thing. Even the most law-abiding citizen would look at that and panic about whether they’d paid all their parking tickets or perhaps missed a jury duty summons in the mail. One might be tempted to toss the whole thing in the trash and hit the road. Here’s hoping no one in the family has a questionable immigration status, as such notices to appear mean something altogether more frightening for them.

Inside, the invitation is much more lighthearted, despite looking a heck of a lot like a ticket. The blocked-out area up top seems to state the couple’s name, calming the hearts of readers right away. Then all the sections pertain to the when, where, and what of the wedding day. Judging by this gimmick, this is a party we wouldn’t want to miss.

“HAHAHAHHA I’m dead. I would’ve been like, wtf did I do???” one follower commented.

Many immediately wanted to crib the idea. “I want to know where she got the wedding invitation!! I want to copy hers!” wrote another follower.

We found one source, for anyone interested. As hinted in the wording up top that mentions the couple “graduating,” this is actually a funny way some police academy cadets have invited their friends and family to their graduation. There are a few templates for that purpose available on Etsy.

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day. For Twitter updates, follow @YahooStyle and @YahooBeauty.

Read more from Yahoo Beauty + Style: