Why Now Is The Best Time Ever To Become A Freelancer
Why Now Is The Best Time Ever To Become A Freelancer
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Abdullahi Muhammed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Thinking of making the leap and becoming a freelancer? You chose the perfect time. There are a lot of benefits of joining the growing gig economy , and it’s only getting better. Seventy-seven percent of freelancers say the best days are yet ahead for freelancing. Here’s why now is the best time to enter the market. Many people carry a false belief that the freelance market is flooded with workers who can’t find regular jobs. But nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, freelancers are actually in demand. According to The Freelancers Union “53 Million” Report , twice as many freelancers have seen an increase in demand in the past year as have seen a decrease – 32% experienced an increase versus 15% who have seen a decrease. Businesses these days are creating new positions, not for full-time employees, but for freelancers to fill. And it looks like they can’t get enough outsourced workers to get everything done. Finding enough work used to be a problem for freelancers when the gig economy was less popular. Not anymore. Probably the main reason people avoid making the leap and becoming a freelancer is fear of failure. What if you quit your job, join the gig economy, and then can’t find any work? If this is your worry, you’re forgetting an important point: you don’t have to commit. Freelance work is flexible, which means there’s no reason to quit your day job if you don’t want to. You can easily start to build up a freelance business on evenings and weekends , and work for your 9-5 job during the day. Then when your business starts to really take off, you can confidently leave your day job to freelance full-time. You also have the option to work a day job part time and work freelance long-term. There’s a negative side of the job market today that makes freelancing much more appealing. And that’s the fact that job security is a dying breed. The economic landscape is changing. Not only are businesses creating new positions for freelance employees, they’re also eliminating salaried jobs and joining the gig economy. Freelancers are in-demand, and every year businesses need less and less traditional employees. Between that and increasing automation of business tasks, true job security is hard to come by today. But there is a solution for this: go with the flow and join the gig economy. Instead of fighting to keep your job and letting the worry keep you up at night, accept that the job market is changing. Now is the time to adapt to your own advantage -- become a freelancer. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Thinking of making the leap and becoming a freelancer? You chose the perfect time. There are a lot of benefits of joining the growing gig economy, and it’s only getting better. Seventy-seven percent of freelancers say the best days are yet ahead for freelancing.

Here’s why now is the best time to enter the market.

Freelancers are in demand

Many people carry a false belief that the freelance market is flooded with workers who can’t find regular jobs. But nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, freelancers are actually in demand.

According to The Freelancers Union “53 Million” Report, twice as many freelancers have seen an increase in demand in the past year as have seen a decrease – 32% experienced an increase versus 15% who have seen a decrease.

Businesses these days are creating new positions, not for full-time employees, but for freelancers to fill. And it looks like they can’t get enough outsourced workers to get everything done. Finding enough work used to be a problem for freelancers when the gig economy was less popular. Not anymore.

You don’t have to commit

Probably the main reason people avoid making the leap and becoming a freelancer is fear of failure. What if you quit your job, join the gig economy, and then can’t find any work?

If this is your worry, you’re forgetting an important point: you don’t have to commit. Freelance work is flexible, which means there’s no reason to quit your day job if you don’t want to.

You can easily start to build up a freelance business on evenings and weekends, and work for your 9-5 job during the day. Then when your business starts to really take off, you can confidently leave your day job to freelance full-time.

You also have the option to work a day job part time and work freelance long-term.

Job security is a dying breed

There’s a negative side of the job market today that makes freelancing much more appealing. And that’s the fact that job security is a dying breed. The economic landscape is changing.

Not only are businesses creating new positions for freelance employees, they’re also eliminating salaried jobs and joining the gig economy. Freelancers are in-demand, and every year businesses need less and less traditional employees.

Between that and increasing automation of business tasks, true job security is hard to come by today. But there is a solution for this: go with the flow and join the gig economy. Instead of fighting to keep your job and letting the worry keep you up at night, accept that the job market is changing. Now is the time to adapt to your own advantage -- become a freelancer.