Parents reject claim Aboriginal man Jordan Anderson tried to kill himself in prison



Parents reject claim Aboriginal man Jordan Anderson tried to kill himself in prison

Updated

An Aboriginal man is on life support in a Perth hospital after authorities say he tried to kill himself in Hakea remand prison.

Jordan Robert Anderson's family does not believe he tried to take his own life and wants the matter investigated.

Twelve days after being admitted to Fiona Stanley Hospital, doctors told his family they would have to turn the life support off.

But his distraught parents are resisting.

The 23-year-old father of two young daughters had been in Hakea facing a string of charges, including aggravated armed robbery, assault occasioning bodily harm, car theft, home burglary and possessing methamphetamine.

His family said he had set fire to his cell late last year and was later charged with assaulting another prisoner and placed in a punishment cell.

His father Lyall Anderson and mother Geraldine Hayward were being supported by other family members and friends today at the hospital as they tried to convince doctors to keep their son alive.

Ms Hayward said she last saw him about a month-and-a-half before he was brought to hospital and he seemed well.

"He just wanted me to look after myself," she said.

"He was good."

The day before the incident he wrote a letter to his sister in Melaleuca women's remand prison, located right next to Hakea, telling her to "be strong and be there for each other".

The Department of Corrective Services said a Hakea prisoner tried to kill himself in his cell in the early hours of March 5 and was taken to hospital.

Ms Hayward did not believe her son had attempted suicide.

"I know my son and he wouldn't do a thing like that," she said.

"I reckon he got murdered in there."

Prison staff performed CPR for almost 40 minutes

Mr Anderson said prison staff performed CPR on his son for 38-40 minutes and managed to revive him, but he was left brain dead.

He said doctors told the family he had swelling on the brain due to a lack of oxygen, and he had seen a small wire-like cut at the front of his throat and scrapes on his knees.

"He doesn't deserve that. We want answers," Mr Anderson said.

"We want the people responsible for this to be held accountable for it."

The family wants a full body scan and blood test conducted.

Fiona Stanley Hospital executive director Paul Forden said the family was being kept informed.

"Fiona Stanley Hospital is working closely with the family to provide support and comfort at this distressing time," Mr Forden said in a statement.

"Hospital staff are in direct contact with the family to keep them informed and discuss any questions or concerns they may have."

Ben Wyatt to introduce custody notification service

New Aboriginal Affairs Minister Ben Wyatt promised to introduce a custody notification service in Western Australia.

The service has long been called for in WA and was one of the recommendations from the coronial inquiry into the death in custody of Aboriginal woman Ms Dhu.

It already exists in the ACT and NSW, and requires a lawyer to be contacted when an Aboriginal person is detained.

In one of the latest incidents, a 31-year-old Aboriginal woman detained at Melaleuca private remand and reintegration prison fell ill and was taken to Fiona Stanley Hospital on February 22.

While in hospital she was released from custody and she died two days later, while still in medical care.

The department said it was not a death in custody. The coroner is investigating.

Topics: black-deaths-in-custody, prisons-and-punishment, suicide, perth-6000

First posted