Have you been affected by combat stress?

and    In 2011 the British army were deployed in two major conflicts, Iraq and Afghanistan. The intense fighting experienced by soldiers on the frontline in places like Helmand province in Afghanistan were well-documented. However the psychological impact of troops returning time and time again to the frontline is less well known. Though Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has been understood as a condition of war for a longtime, it can often go under-reported. Charities such as The Royal British Legion , Help for Heroes and Combat Stress have gone a long way towards supporting soldiers with PTSD and other mental health issues, however the condition can still carry a stigma, which may prevent those on active duty and even soldiers who have retired, from reporting it. Symptoms can often appear years later, however the case of Marine A has highlighted how soldiers can be affected by stress while on active duty. Share your experiences We’d like to find out more about how PTSD and other mental health issues affect soldiers on the frontline. If you or anyone you know has been affected, we’d like to hear from you. Were you involved in conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq ? Could you share your concerns or was it difficult to tell anyone? If you knew someone who had been on the front line who was experiencing the condition, was there anywhere to get help? Do you feel combat stress is under reported? Please share your experiences in the encrypted form below. We understand that this is a very sensitive issue, so if you prefer, please share your stories anonymously. We will do our best to keep your information secure.  Afghanistan   Mental health   Iraq

In 2011 the British army were deployed in two major conflicts, Iraq and Afghanistan. The intense fighting experienced by soldiers on the frontline in places like Helmand province in Afghanistan were well-documented. However the psychological impact of troops returning time and time again to the frontline is less well known.

Though Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) has been understood as a condition of war for a longtime, it can often go under-reported. Charities such as The Royal British Legion, Help for Heroes and Combat Stress have gone a long way towards supporting soldiers with PTSD and other mental health issues, however the condition can still carry a stigma, which may prevent those on active duty and even soldiers who have retired, from reporting it.

Symptoms can often appear years later, however the case of Marine A has highlighted how soldiers can be affected by stress while on active duty.

Share your experiences

We’d like to find out more about how PTSD and other mental health issues affect soldiers on the frontline. If you or anyone you know has been affected, we’d like to hear from you. Were you involved in conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq? Could you share your concerns or was it difficult to tell anyone? If you knew someone who had been on the front line who was experiencing the condition, was there anywhere to get help? Do you feel combat stress is under reported?



Please share your experiences in the encrypted form below. We understand that this is a very sensitive issue, so if you prefer, please share your stories anonymously. We will do our best to keep your information secure.