JPMorgan Quant Frets Stock Complacency Too High After Dutch Vote
JPMorgan Quant Frets Stock Complacency Too High After Dutch Vote
Complacency among equity investors is rising after Dutch voters inflicted a blow to political populism and JPMorgan Chase & Co. says it’s a good time to hedge against a slide in stocks. A selloff in equities is now more likely than not, because investors are now underestimating the chances of disruption when France holds presidential elections that start next month, according to JPMorgan Chase’s Marko Kolanovic. The bank’s global head of quantitative and derivatives strategy in New York says declines of roughly 5 percent for the S&P 500 Index would make shares worth buying. Kolanovic’s call comes fresh on the heels of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. which cut its outlook for global stocks this week, and a warning from Allianz Global Investors that equity valuations are becoming stretched . The defeat in this week’s Dutch elections of anti-immigration candidate Geert Wilders is being seen as a blow to populist political leaders, especially France’s Marine Le Pen. Investors should reduce positions in U.S. equities and buy cheaper emerging-market stocks, Kolanovic said in an email to clients Thursday. He also says American stocks will be attractive in the longer term, especially for patient investors ready to wait for a better entry point to buy. “Further complacency may set in in the aftermath of the Dutch elections,” Kolanovic wrote. “There will be an increase of uncertainty related to French elections. Near-term, market weakness is more likely than not.” Futures on the S&P 500 declined 0.1 percent as of 8:23 a.m. London time on Friday, though they are on course for the seventh weekly advance in eight weeks. The Dutch vote attracted an unusual level of global scrutiny as it comes before France’s presidential election. Far-right candidate Le Pen, who is seeking to take France out of the euro zone and stop immigration, is polling at about 27 percent for the first round on April 23 though she’s projected to lose to independent Emmanuel Macron by more than 20 points in the runoff. The VStoxx Index of euro-area volatility plunged after the vote in the Netherlands this week. The bond market seems to be more concerned. The extra yield investors demand to hold French government debt rather than German notes remains elevated, even if it has declined from the recent peak.

Complacency among equity investors is rising after Dutch voters inflicted a blow to political populism and JPMorgan Chase & Co. says it’s a good time to hedge against a slide in stocks.

A selloff in equities is now more likely than not, because investors are now underestimating the chances of disruption when France holds presidential elections that start next month, according to JPMorgan Chase’s Marko Kolanovic. The bank’s global head of quantitative and derivatives strategy in New York says declines of roughly 5 percent for the S&P 500 Index would make shares worth buying.

Kolanovic’s call comes fresh on the heels of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. which cut its outlook for global stocks this week, and a warning from Allianz Global Investors that equity valuations are becoming stretched. The defeat in this week’s Dutch elections of anti-immigration candidate Geert Wilders is being seen as a blow to populist political leaders, especially France’s Marine Le Pen.

Investors should reduce positions in U.S. equities and buy cheaper emerging-market stocks, Kolanovic said in an email to clients Thursday. He also says American stocks will be attractive in the longer term, especially for patient investors ready to wait for a better entry point to buy.

“Further complacency may set in in the aftermath of the Dutch elections,” Kolanovic wrote. “There will be an increase of uncertainty related to French elections. Near-term, market weakness is more likely than not.”

Futures on the S&P 500 declined 0.1 percent as of 8:23 a.m. London time on Friday, though they are on course for the seventh weekly advance in eight weeks.

The most important market news of the day. Get our markets daily newsletter.

The Dutch vote attracted an unusual level of global scrutiny as it comes before France’s presidential election. Far-right candidate Le Pen, who is seeking to take France out of the euro zone and stop immigration, is polling at about 27 percent for the first round on April 23 though she’s projected to lose to independent Emmanuel Macron by more than 20 points in the runoff. The VStoxx Index of euro-area volatility plunged after the vote in the Netherlands this week.

The bond market seems to be more concerned. The extra yield investors demand to hold French government debt rather than German notes remains elevated, even if it has declined from the recent peak.