Teen discovers valuable diamond while on family outing
Teen discovers valuable diamond while on family outing
teenage boy has discovered a hugely valuable diamond during a recent family visit to an Arkansas State Park . 14-year-old Kalel Langford, of Centerton, Arkansas was walking with his parents at the Crater of Diamonds park last weekend park when he spotted the gem. “It was just a few inches from a stream of water, with a bunch of other rocks that were about the same size,” he said. Kalel immediately showed his discovery to his father Craig, who said: “We had only been at the park for about 30 minutes when he found it. Its color was so dark that we weren’t sure if it was a diamond, but we knew we needed to have it looked at.” hey took it to the park's Diamond Discovery Center, where they were shocked to learn Kalel had found one of the biggest diamonds in the park's history. The 7.44 carat diamond has not yet been valued, but is thought to be worth several thousand pounds. Kalel named it the 'Superman' diamond, after his love of the DC superhero, and he currently plans to keep hold of his find. Park spokesman Waymon Cox said: “Conditions were ideal for Kalel to find his diamond. About an inch of rain fell on the plowed search area during the week. A heavy rain can uncover larger diamonds near the surface. "Diamonds have a metallic-looking shine and are often easier to spot on top of the ground. Kalel’s diamond is about the size of a pinto bean, and it’s very dark brown, similar to coffee. Overall, the gem has a frosted appearance and is shaped somewhat like a pillow or a kite.” ox described the diamond as a "truly extraordinary find," adding: "It was Kalel’s dream to visit the Crater of Diamonds State Park, and now he will always be part of this park’s remarkable history. We are all very happy for him.”

A teenage boy has discovered a hugely valuable diamond during a recent family visit to an Arkansas State Park.

14-year-old Kalel Langford, of Centerton, Arkansas was walking with his parents at the Crater of Diamonds park last weekend park when he spotted the gem.

“It was just a few inches from a stream of water, with a bunch of other rocks that were about the same size,” he said.

Kalel immediately showed his discovery to his father Craig, who said: “We had only been at the park for about 30 minutes when he found it. Its color was so dark that we weren’t sure if it was a diamond, but we knew we needed to have it looked at.”