Missiles fired from Syria at Israeli jets after airstrikes
Missiles fired from Syria at Israeli jets after airstrikes
Shares                Anti-aircraft missiles were launched from Syria into Israeli-controlled territory early on Friday, following a series of Israeli airstrikes inside Syria, the Israeli military said. The military said its warplanes struck several targets in Syria and were back in Israeli-controlled airspace when several anti-aircraft missiles were launched from Syria toward the Israeli jets. Israeli aerial defense systems intercepted one of the missiles, the army said, but did not elaborate. It would not say whether any other missiles struck Israeli-held territory, but it said the safety of Israeli civilians and the safety of the Israeli aircraft "were not compromised." The army said the incident set off sirens in Jewish settlement communities in the Jordan Valley in the West Bank . The firing of missiles from Syria toward Israeli aircraft is extremely rare, though Israeli military officials said there was a shoulder-fired missile a few months ago. There was no immediate comment from the government in Damascus, nor its ally Hezbollah, a Lebanese militant group that is believed to possess such missiles. Israeli Channel 10 TV reported that Israel deployed its Arrow defense system for the first time against a real threat and hit an incoming missile intercepting it before it exploded in Israel. It also showed footage from Jordan of what was described as remnants of the missile. It said the Israeli military had been on a mission to destroy a weapons convoy destined for the Iranian-backed Hezbollah. It was not immediately clear how debris from the missile may have ended up in neighboring Jordan. Other Israeli media also reported that the Arrow was deployed. The Haaretz daily said the interception took place north of Jerusalem. However, the Arrow is designed to intercept missiles in the stratosphere so it remained unclear why the system would have been used in this particular incident. The military had no immediate comment on the reports. The Arrow is mainly designed for ballistic missiles. It is part of what Israel calls its "multilayer missile defense" comprised of different systems meant to protect against short and long range threats, including the thousands of missiles possessed by Hezbollah in neighboring Lebanon and rockets used by Hamas and other Islamic militant groups in Gaza. Israel has been largely unaffected by the Syrian civil war raging next door, suffering mostly sporadic incidents of spillover fire over the frontier that Israel has generally dismissed as tactical errors by Syrian President Bashar Assad's government forces. Israel has responded to these cases lightly, with limited reprisals on Syrian positions in response to the errant fire. The Jordan Valley part of the West Bank borders Jordan. Israel captured it along with the rest of the West Bank in the 1967 Mideast war. Palestinians demand the areas for a future state. Israel is widely believed to have carried out a number of airstrikes on advanced weapons systems in Syria — including Russian-made anti-aircraft missiles and Iranian-made missiles, as well as Hezbollah positions — but it rarely confirms them. Hezbollah is a close ally of the Syrian government and is fighting alongside Assad's forces in Syria's civil war. The Shiite Lebanese militant group is a fierce enemy of Israel and fought a bitter month-long war with the Jewish state in 2006. Shares                  Missiles fired from Syria at Israeli jets after airstrikes   Spicer continues to defend Trump's wiretapping claims   Huge fire engulfs apartment building under construction   GOP health care bill narrowly clears a committee despite conservative opposition   McDonald's confirms Twitter account hacked   Detroit suspect attacked officers 'unprovoked' with apparent intention to kill: Police   10-year-old boy dies after being trapped in snow pile from late-winter storm   French school shooting: 4 shot, 10 hurt, student arrested   Centrist European leaders celebrate Dutch election result   Letter bomb explodes at Paris IMF's office; Greek ties seen   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   Ireland's leader pushes Trump on Irish in US illegally   British PM, Scottish leader tussle over independence vote   Yahoo breach spotlights links between Russian spies, hackers   Trump calls for privatizing air traffic control operations   Asian markets mostly higher after Fed hike   Angelina Jolie defends UN, decries 'tide of nationalism'   Malaysia says it has family consent to decide on Kim's body   'I am lucky': Refugee family celebrates arrival to US   What's next for Trump's revised travel ban   Hawaii judge puts Trump's revised travel ban on hold   BBC reporter describes up-close encounter with Mount Etna eruption   Video shows passer-by shooting Florida deputy's attacker   PT boat from WWII rides old test course 'like a thoroughbred'   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Report: Fernandez was likely operating boat in fatal crash   Russian spy ship returns to East Coast of US   Prince's ex-wife opens up about 1996 death of couple's baby   Demi Lovato on 5 years sober: 'It's been quite the journey'   Affidavit: Josh Jackson threatened to 'beat' women's player

Anti-aircraft missiles were launched from Syria into Israeli-controlled territory early on Friday, following a series of Israeli airstrikes inside Syria, the Israeli military said.

The military said its warplanes struck several targets in Syria and were back in Israeli-controlled airspace when several anti-aircraft missiles were launched from Syria toward the Israeli jets.

Israeli aerial defense systems intercepted one of the missiles, the army said, but did not elaborate. It would not say whether any other missiles struck Israeli-held territory, but it said the safety of Israeli civilians and the safety of the Israeli aircraft "were not compromised."

The army said the incident set off sirens in Jewish settlement communities in the Jordan Valley in the West Bank.

The firing of missiles from Syria toward Israeli aircraft is extremely rare, though Israeli military officials said there was a shoulder-fired missile a few months ago.

There was no immediate comment from the government in Damascus, nor its ally Hezbollah, a Lebanese militant group that is believed to possess such missiles.

Israeli Channel 10 TV reported that Israel deployed its Arrow defense system for the first time against a real threat and hit an incoming missile intercepting it before it exploded in Israel.

It also showed footage from Jordan of what was described as remnants of the missile. It said the Israeli military had been on a mission to destroy a weapons convoy destined for the Iranian-backed Hezbollah.

It was not immediately clear how debris from the missile may have ended up in neighboring Jordan.

Other Israeli media also reported that the Arrow was deployed. The Haaretz daily said the interception took place north of Jerusalem. However, the Arrow is designed to intercept missiles in the stratosphere so it remained unclear why the system would have been used in this particular incident.

The military had no immediate comment on the reports.

The Arrow is mainly designed for ballistic missiles. It is part of what Israel calls its "multilayer missile defense" comprised of different systems meant to protect against short and long range threats, including the thousands of missiles possessed by Hezbollah in neighboring Lebanon and rockets used by Hamas and other Islamic militant groups in Gaza.

Israel has been largely unaffected by the Syrian civil war raging next door, suffering mostly sporadic incidents of spillover fire over the frontier that Israel has generally dismissed as tactical errors by Syrian President Bashar Assad's government forces. Israel has responded to these cases lightly, with limited reprisals on Syrian positions in response to the errant fire.

The Jordan Valley part of the West Bank borders Jordan. Israel captured it along with the rest of the West Bank in the 1967 Mideast war. Palestinians demand the areas for a future state.

Israel is widely believed to have carried out a number of airstrikes on advanced weapons systems in Syria — including Russian-made anti-aircraft missiles and Iranian-made missiles, as well as Hezbollah positions — but it rarely confirms them.

Hezbollah is a close ally of the Syrian government and is fighting alongside Assad's forces in Syria's civil war. The Shiite Lebanese militant group is a fierce enemy of Israel and fought a bitter month-long war with the Jewish state in 2006.