India's Men Need Paternity Leave As Much As Women Need Maternity Leave, Here's Why
India's Men Need Paternity Leave As Much As Women Need Maternity Leave, Here's Why
There is no doubt that the Parliament's decision to pass the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Bill, 2016, is a progressive one for working women in India employed in the organised sector. With this decision, India joins the ranks of countries with high gender parity such as Canada and Norway, which offer upto 50 weeks paid maternity leave. Perhaps thus is the reason why this bill is being met with so much apprehension – because the aforementioned countries have softer undercurrents of gender-based discrimination, compared to the tidal waves of patriarchy rampant in India. The amended bill, which has increased maternity leave from 12 to 26 weeks, is waiting for the President's nod and has already faced its fair share of criticism. Some believe that it will actually hinder organisations from hiring women, thereby reducing the already low number of women in the workforce. In August 2016, when the bill was passed in Rajya Sabha, Union minister of women and child development, Maneka Gandhi, was lambasted for saying: “Paternity leave can be considered only if, once the woman goes back to work after her 26 weeks of leave, we find that men are availing their sick leave for a month to take care of the child. Let me see how many men do that. I will be happy to give it but for a man, it will be just a holiday, he won’t do anything.” Unfortunately, in the wake of this perhaps misjudged comment, people forgot that it was Mrs Gandhi who raised the idea of increasing maternity leave in the first place. It would be unjust to assume that the government’s intention behind this bill was to reinforce the belief that women should be taking care of their newborn. The intent, however, matters less in the face of action. Kanta Singh, who works at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) says, “Probably the thought behind the bill was to provide some sort of support for mothers who are having to leave the workforce because of motherhood.” Ironically, while India’s workforce is increasing year on year, the number of women in that pool is decreasing. In 2016, it was revealed that the participation of women in the workforce fell by 10% in the last decade – the largest drop anywhere in the world. It was perhaps to address this issue of women leaving the workforce that the government thought it best to increase the length of maternity leave so that women don’t feel coerced into choosing either work or home. Lack of flexibility in the workplace was found to be one of the reasons dissuading women from continuing working after having a child.

There is no doubt that the Parliament's decision to pass the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Bill, 2016, is a progressive one for working women in India employed in the organised sector. With this decision, India joins the ranks of countries with high gender parity such as Canada and Norway, which offer upto 50 weeks paid maternity leave. Perhaps thus is the reason why this bill is being met with so much apprehension – because the aforementioned countries have softer undercurrents of gender-based discrimination, compared to the tidal waves of patriarchy rampant in India.

Unsplash

The amended bill, which has increased maternity leave from 12 to 26 weeks, is waiting for the President's nod and has already faced its fair share of criticism.

Some believe that it will actually hinder organisations from hiring women, thereby reducing the already low number of women in the workforce. Others have said that in the absence of paternity leave in India, this bill is reinforcing the idea that women are natural caretakers and it’s only legitimate that women are offered upto six months leave to nurture their child.

In August 2016, when the bill was passed in Rajya Sabha, Union minister of women and child development, Maneka Gandhi, was lambasted for saying: “Paternity leave can be considered only if, once the woman goes back to work after her 26 weeks of leave, we find that men are availing their sick leave for a month to take care of the child. Let me see how many men do that. I will be happy to give it but for a man, it will be just a holiday, he won’t do anything.”

Unfortunately, in the wake of this perhaps misjudged comment, people forgot that it was Mrs Gandhi who raised the idea of increasing maternity leave in the first place.

Reuters

It would be unjust to assume that the government’s intention behind this bill was to reinforce the belief that women should be taking care of their newborn. The intent, however, matters less in the face of action.

Kanta Singh, who works at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) says, “Probably the thought behind the bill was to provide some sort of support for mothers who are having to leave the workforce because of motherhood.”

Ironically, while India’s workforce is increasing year on year, the number of women in that pool is decreasing. In 2016, it was revealed that the participation of women in the workforce fell by 10% in the last decade – the largest drop anywhere in the world. It was perhaps to address this issue of women leaving the workforce that the government thought it best to increase the length of maternity leave so that women don’t feel coerced into choosing either work or home.

Lack of flexibility in the workplace was found to be one of the reasons dissuading women from continuing working after having a child.

Don't Miss 750 SHARES 930 SHARES 16.7 K SHARES 23.6 K SHARES 13.8 K SHARES

Also, Kanta points out that not only is the talent pool getting narrower in urban cities, labour participation is also decreasing in the lower economic sections of society.

Reuters

Women, generally, do tend to take on the role of a caregiver, but they are also expected to do so. And trying to unriddle whether the individual desire of women to nurture or the expectation to do came first, is like the chicken and egg argument. Having said that, one cannot deny that biologically women are required to be around as they bear children, deliver them and then are needed for breastfeeding. “However, their role ends at that and everything beyond is a gender thing, not a sex thing,” says Kanta.

There is an almost unsaid need for maternity leave because women are child bearers. Beyond that role, it is needed because a newborn baby needs the full attention of its parents – mother and father. Most men living in metropolitan cities today do want paternity leave because the initial months is when you form a bond with the baby.

Kunal Mehra, a 32-year-old new father of an 8-month-old did not get paternity leave. It worked in his favour that he was in between jobs and so took time off. He said four to six weeks for fathers should be the minimum and perhaps 10 if companies can stretch it. Interesting he said that societal perceptions discourage men from taking time off even if the company allows them to do so.

"Most men won't take more than a week or so off because people will begin to question his role at home with a newborn baby," Kunal said.

There is, of course, a physical angle attached to the mother, but fathers play a substantial role as well. Currently, however, the wider perception is men's' long leave from work after having a baby is frowned upon.

In the absence of paternity leave, maternity leave is like perpetuating a vicious cycle, whereby both genders will remain stuck in preconceived notions of what their role in society should be like. The Maternity Benefit Amendment Bill 2016 will remain clouded in scepticism if the government doesn’t revisit potential repercussions it could have for women, men and patriarchy in Indian society.