What do you think of Osborne as Evening Standard editor? Our live look at the week

and                      Is this a sign Osborne plans a bid for mayoralty and City Hall? Hugh Muir t’s not often that cream of British journalism is taken completely but surprise but it happened today with the unveiling of George Osborne as the new editor of the London Evening Standard. It has been clear in recent days that the former chancellor would not settle for a quiet life on the backbenches. There was much discussion about his £200,000 a year contract with Black Rock and the fortunes he has been making as an after dinner speaker. But few would have predicted a detour into daily journalism. So once again, Osborne is the story and he once again becomes the subject of thorny questions. Can the MP for Tatton also edit a daily publication without short changing both constituents and readers? Can the newspaper maintain any hope of political objectivity with a former Tory big beast at the helm? It’s worth remembering that the Standard was sharply criticised for its highly partisan coverage of the mayoral campaign between the Tory Zac Goldsmith and Labour’s Sadiq Khan. At a time when Khan is demanding more resources and powers from a Tory government, will the Standard - run by a Tory backbencher subject to the Tory whip - support him? Will Osborne be sufficiently in tune with a largely liberal readership in London? The Standard at the outset of the Lebedev proprietorship, felt obliged to apologise to its readers amid the perception that the paper under Veronica Wadley’s leadership had done too much to ape the Daily Mail and lurched to far to the right. And then, there is the bigger question. Osborne is a big fan of powerful city and regional mayors; might this – with Westminster prominence now denied him – be a platform for a future tilt at the mayoralty and City Hall? Updated       Guardian readers Lots of you are sharing some rather fascinating views on our plastic bottle problem below the line, here’s a few: I live on the coast, I am always upset to see the amount of plastic discarded. A deposit scheme certainly wouldn't hurt. I have lived in Central Africa, there was a shortage of glass bottles, the bottles and contents had about the same value, did you ever see a empty bottle lying around, Nope never. Plus when you were broke at the end of the month, you could take a dozen empties back to the shop and get 6 full ones in exchange. If London only recycles 15% of it's plastic bottles does the same equate for other recycling, glass/paper/cans etc? What's the issue with Londoners? If London is really at 15% it the reason why we're missing our EU target. Something for Khan to take a look at. More needs to be done upstream in the production of plastic, rather than target consumers with advice around recycling. Manufacturers need to incorporate environmental impacts and targets for plastic production, and governments need to introduce better legislation for industry around recycling and types of plastics which can be used. Schemes such as recycling plastic which rewards the consumer that have proven successful elsewhere should be introduced. Most recycling efforts are targeted at consumers, which misses a huge part of the problem - production.      Sarah Marsh n a move that’s shocked many, George Osborne has been appointed as the new editor of the London Evening Standard . Evgeny Lebedev , the owner of the daily paper, announced the appointment on Twitter, saying he was “thrilled” at the news, and described the Cheshire MP as “London through and through”. Osborne, who has no significant journalistic experience, plans to continue as MP for Tatton. What do our readers think? Share your views and comments with us Updated       Sarah Marsh We will be moving on shortly to the surprise news that George Osborne is the new editor of the Evening Standard. Would be great to get readers thoughts on this?      What can we do about plastic bottle waste? Susanna Rustin o one knows exactly how many plastic bottles get thrown away in the UK each year, but estimates suggest around 10 billion – or 500 per family. Just half of these get recycled – that is, shredded and melted down into polyester or more plastic containers. The rest are a menace. By 2050, plastic could outweigh fish in the sea. Other countries do much better, partly thanks to “deposit return schemes”, where shoppers get some money back when they return their empties. Last month Coca- Cola delighted campaigners in Scotland by agreeing to support a pilot there. Now a committee of MPs is investigating what the government should do . This is great news, as British recycling is a complete mess. We are doing less, not more of it (43.9% at the last count), with England the worst offender. Wales, at 61%, has already overtaken the EU’s target of 50% by 2020) . In London, where I live, the rate is as low as 15%. Blindingly obviously, something must be done. I suggest streetside plastic bottle banks, a government ad campaign (surely it’s not a hard sell, with all those poor turtles and sea birds being poisoned and strangled to death?), and – call me a dreamer – public drinking-water fountains in stations, leisure centres, libraries and parks.      Welcome to our social Sarah Marsh t’s time for our weekly social, where we discuss the week’s news and comment articles with readers. Is there anything you want to discuss in particular today? If so, then let us know below the line or drop an email here: sarah.marsh@theguardian.com. Look forward to getting started after a week that has brought up much to talk about in the realm of politics and a new line-up of GBBO presenters. Updated      Opinion

12:52

It’s not often that cream of British journalism is taken completely but surprise but it happened today with the unveiling of George Osborne as the new editor of the London Evening Standard. It has been clear in recent days that the former chancellor would not settle for a quiet life on the backbenches. There was much discussion about his £200,000 a year contract with Black Rock and the fortunes he has been making as an after dinner speaker. But few would have predicted a detour into daily journalism.



Photograph: Jonathan Brady/PA

So once again, Osborne is the story and he once again becomes the subject of thorny questions. Can the MP for Tatton also edit a daily publication without short changing both constituents and readers? Can the newspaper maintain any hope of political objectivity with a former Tory big beast at the helm? It’s worth remembering that the Standard was sharply criticised for its highly partisan coverage of the mayoral campaign between the Tory Zac Goldsmith and Labour’s Sadiq Khan. At a time when Khan is demanding more resources and powers from a Tory government, will the Standard - run by a Tory backbencher subject to the Tory whip - support him? Will Osborne be sufficiently in tune with a largely liberal readership in London? The Standard at the outset of the Lebedev proprietorship, felt obliged to apologise to its readers amid the perception that the paper under Veronica Wadley’s leadership had done too much to ape the Daily Mail and lurched to far to the right. And then, there is the bigger question. Osborne is a big fan of powerful city and regional mayors; might this – with Westminster prominence now denied him – be a platform for a future tilt at the mayoralty and City Hall?