Taraji P. Henson: Talking Cookie, and the Impact of ‘Hidden Figures’
Taraji P. Henson: Talking Cookie, and the Impact of ‘Hidden Figures’
If you love Taraji P. Henson as the music executive Cookie Lyon in the Fox drama “Empire” or as the mathematician Katherine Johnson in the Oscar-nominated film “ Hidden Figures ,” savor those performances, because you likely won’t see anything like them again. “I don’t like to repeat characters,” Ms. Henson said. “I’m an artist to the bone.” “Hidden Figures,” the real-life story about three African-American women working for NASA during the space race, was a fixture on the awards-season circuit. “Empire,” in its third hit season, returns to Fox on March 22 and has become appointment television in an age of binge-watching. Later this month, Ms. Henson begins production on the movie “Proud Mary,” in which she plays an assassin who discovers a maternal instinct. Mathematician. Music executive. Assassin. What else is on her wish list? “I would love to be a Marvel superhero,” she said. “I’m dying to get into some comedy. I think I’m a stronger comedic actress than a dramatic actress. You guys just fell for the drama side.” In a telephone interview from Chicago, where she is shooting “Empire,” Ms. Henson, 46, discussed Cookie’s future and more. These are edited excerpts from the conversation. It was a proud moment. It was beautiful to be a part of bringing her out to get her just due. But at the same time, she’s confused, she doesn’t know why she’s getting all this attention because in her mind she was just going to work — that’s the most beautiful part of it. She’s like, “What’s all the fuss?” I think Hollywood sees that there are interesting stories that we haven’t heard before — that was one of a million. We were all very serious about doing it justice. That movie was bigger than any of us. You’ll see her put on her business hat. She can’t pop off like she used to, so it’s about containing herself. But there are times when she’s pushed. She’s consistently fighting for her family. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy I don’t think it’s for her at all. If it is for her, it is the joy of watching her fruition come to life — all her effort and things that she wants for her boys, her family. That’s what she’s fighting for at the core. Advertisement Advertisement A lot of it is just me and Terrence. The producers and writers let us go, because when it’s natural, you can’t write it. They give us the skeleton, the bones, some of the meat. We add the gravy, the stuff that makes it taste better. Advertisement Her one-line zingers. They won’t call the character Anika; they call her “Boo Boo Kitty.” That was just an ad-lib from the first season that’s carried over. That’s the one everyone remembers. Yeah. That’s the only reason why I went back to TV. I would like her to really, finally find love. Isn’t that what every woman wants? Someone that gets her and is going to love her for who she is. Advertisement As long as Lucious is in love with that woman, you know what is going to happen. A version of this article appears in print on March 19, 2017, on Page AR6 of the with the headline: Taraji P. Henson: From Cookie to Marvel Hero?.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. EMPIRE

Photo

If you love Taraji P. Henson as the music executive Cookie Lyon in the Fox drama “Empire” or as the mathematician Katherine Johnson in the Oscar-nominated film “Hidden Figures,” savor those performances, because you likely won’t see anything like them again.

“I don’t like to repeat characters,” Ms. Henson said. “I’m an artist to the bone.”

“Hidden Figures,” the real-life story about three African-American women working for NASA during the space race, was a fixture on the awards-season circuit. “Empire,” in its third hit season, returns to Fox on March 22 and has become appointment television in an age of binge-watching. Later this month, Ms. Henson begins production on the movie “Proud Mary,” in which she plays an assassin who discovers a maternal instinct.

Mathematician. Music executive. Assassin. What else is on her wish list?

“I would love to be a Marvel superhero,” she said. “I’m dying to get into some comedy. I think I’m a stronger comedic actress than a dramatic actress. You guys just fell for the drama side.”

In a telephone interview from Chicago, where she is shooting “Empire,” Ms. Henson, 46, discussed Cookie’s future and more. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

Bringing the real-life Ms. Johnson onstage during the Oscars was quite a moment.

It was a proud moment. It was beautiful to be a part of bringing her out to get her just due. But at the same time, she’s confused, she doesn’t know why she’s getting all this attention because in her mind she was just going to work — that’s the most beautiful part of it. She’s like, “What’s all the fuss?”

“Hidden Figures” helped inspire a larger conversation about African-American women onscreen.

I think Hollywood sees that there are interesting stories that we haven’t heard before — that was one of a million. We were all very serious about doing it justice. That movie was bigger than any of us.

In the “Empire” midseason finale, Cookie helped stage an intervention for her son Jamal [Jussie Smollett]. Moments later, she discovers that her new beau, Angelo [Taye Diggs], may have a checkered past of his own. Where will we see Cookie’s character going next?

You’ll see her put on her business hat. She can’t pop off like she used to, so it’s about containing herself. But there are times when she’s pushed. She’s consistently fighting for her family.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

On some level, isn’t she also fighting for herself?

I don’t think it’s for her at all. If it is for her, it is the joy of watching her fruition come to life — all her effort and things that she wants for her boys, her family. That’s what she’s fighting for at the core.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You’ve worked with Terrence Howard [who plays her ex-husband, Lucious Lyon] before — much of that electric rapport is scripted?

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A lot of it is just me and Terrence. The producers and writers let us go, because when it’s natural, you can’t write it. They give us the skeleton, the bones, some of the meat. We add the gravy, the stuff that makes it taste better.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What’s the best “gravy” you’ve added?

Her one-line zingers. They won’t call the character Anika; they call her “Boo Boo Kitty.” That was just an ad-lib from the first season that’s carried over. That’s the one everyone remembers.

That creative freedom must be great.

Yeah. That’s the only reason why I went back to TV.

Cookie has made up for a lot of lost ground since returning home from a long prison sentence. What hasn’t she done yet that you would like to see her do?

I would like her to really, finally find love. Isn’t that what every woman wants? Someone that gets her and is going to love her for who she is.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Well, Angelo seems to be trying to nurture a relationship with her.

As long as Lucious is in love with that woman, you know what is going to happen.