Prince William in Paris on first official visit since mother Diana's death

in Paris    The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were welcomed on the steps of the Elysée palace by the French president, François Hollande, at the start of their two-day visit to Paris. The royal couple arrived in French capital by private plane, before being driven to the Elysée on their first official visit to the city. It is the first time Prince William has been in the city on an official engagement since his mother, Diana, Princess of Wales died in a car crash almost 20 years ago – and is the first in a series of European visits the Cambridges and the Prince of Wales will make in the coming months. The visits are seen by some commentators as a bid to enhance Britain’s relationships with the mainland Europe as Brexit negotiations loom. The Elysée said it was natural for the royal couple to be received by the president on their arrival in France “given the historic relationship between France and the United Kingdom”. The duke and duchess will stay at the Hôtel de Charost, an 18th-century mansion on the chic Rue Faubourg St Honoré, which has been the residence of the British ambassador to France 1814 and is a stone’s throw from the Elysée palace. It was built in 1720 for one of Louis XV’s senior courtier’s and designed by the king’s architect. It was bought by Napoléon Bonaparte’s sister Pauline in 1803 then sold to the Duke of Wellington, who paid in instalments of gold, that Bonaparte used to finance his return before the Battle of Waterloo. After visiting the Elysée, the Cambridges are due to attend a glittering dinner hosted by the British ambassador Lord Edward Llewellyn with British and French guests, including actress Kristin Scott-Thomas, and French stars Jean Reno and Audrey Tautou. The event will mark the launch of Les Voisins (neighbours) a celebration of Anglo-French ties and the royal couple will meet French leaders from a range of different fields, from arts, fashion and business. On Saturday, they will visit Les Invalides and attend the Six Nations rugby match between Wales and France at the Stade de France. William will be attending in his new role as patron of the Welsh Rugby Union, having taken over the position from his grandmother, the Queen. Buckingham Palace officials have insisted there are no plans for the couple to visit the scene of the crash, the Pont d’Alma, the highway where Diana died in August 1997, or make any official commemoration of the tragedy. The official visit, arranged at the request of the UK Foreign Office, is intended as a charm offensive ahead of Britain’s Brexit negotiations. The prime minister, Theresa May, is expected to trigger article 50 beginning Britain’s exit from the European Union at the end of this month. William has privately visited the city on a few occasions since his mother’s death, including going with his brother, Harry , to watch England in the Rugby World Cup in 2007. On this official visit, William and Kate also plan to meet some of those involved in the response to the 2015 terrorist attacks at the Bataclan theatre in Paris as well as the truck attack in Nice on Bastille Day last year. A Foreign Office spokesman said royal visits played a very important role in British diplomacy. Royals and Anglo-French diplomacy William and Kate are not the first royals to head to France amid diplomatic difficulties. Queen Elizabeth II’s first state visit there, in April 1957, coincided with the Suez Crisis. Although the two nations were united in the opposition to Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser and their aim to regain western control of the Suez Canal, France’s failure to to inform Britain about the involvement of Israel until very close to the commencement of military action in late 1956 strained relations. The Queen’s official visit to President Coty sought to both soothe and reinforce the UK’s relationship with France. The Queen’s second state visit in May 1972 was ironically an attempt by France rather than the United Kingdom to improve relations regarding UK’s entry into, rather than departure from, the European Economic Community. President Georges Pompidou’s new government was keen for friendlier dialogue with Britain, welcoming their membership of the EEC, which President De Gaulle had previously opposed. This would help to pave the way for Britain to do so the next year. Against a backdrop of gathering menace in Europe in the 1930’s, the Queen’s father George VI made similar attempts to bolster Anglo-French relations with an official trip to France in 1938, which aimed to strategically emphasise the values of the two “liberal democracies” in the face of the threat from Nazi Germany.  Prince William   The Duchess of Cambridge   Diana, Princess of Wales   Europe   Monarchy   France   news

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were welcomed on the steps of the Elysée palace by the French president, François Hollande, at the start of their two-day visit to Paris.

The royal couple arrived in French capital by private plane, before being driven to the Elysée on their first official visit to the city.

It is the first time Prince William has been in the city on an official engagement since his mother, Diana, Princess of Wales died in a car crash almost 20 years ago – and is the first in a series of European visits the Cambridges and the Prince of Wales will make in the coming months. The visits are seen by some commentators as a bid to enhance Britain’s relationships with the mainland Europe as Brexit negotiations loom.

The Elysée said it was natural for the royal couple to be received by the president on their arrival in France “given the historic relationship between France and the United Kingdom”.

The duke and duchess will stay at the Hôtel de Charost, an 18th-century mansion on the chic Rue Faubourg St Honoré, which has been the residence of the British ambassador to France 1814 and is a stone’s throw from the Elysée palace. It was built in 1720 for one of Louis XV’s senior courtier’s and designed by the king’s architect. It was bought by Napoléon Bonaparte’s sister Pauline in 1803 then sold to the Duke of Wellington, who paid in instalments of gold, that Bonaparte used to finance his return before the Battle of Waterloo.

After visiting the Elysée, the Cambridges are due to attend a glittering dinner hosted by the British ambassador Lord Edward Llewellyn with British and French guests, including actress Kristin Scott-Thomas, and French stars Jean Reno and Audrey Tautou.

The event will mark the launch of Les Voisins (neighbours) a celebration of Anglo-French ties and the royal couple will meet French leaders from a range of different fields, from arts, fashion and business.

On Saturday, they will visit Les Invalides and attend the Six Nations rugby match between Wales and France at the Stade de France. William will be attending in his new role as patron of the Welsh Rugby Union, having taken over the position from his grandmother, the Queen.

Buckingham Palace officials have insisted there are no plans for the couple to visit the scene of the crash, the Pont d’Alma, the highway where Diana died in August 1997, or make any official commemoration of the tragedy.

The official visit, arranged at the request of the UK Foreign Office, is intended as a charm offensive ahead of Britain’s Brexit negotiations. The prime minister, Theresa May, is expected to trigger article 50 beginning Britain’s exit from the European Union at the end of this month.

William has privately visited the city on a few occasions since his mother’s death, including going with his brother, Harry, to watch England in the Rugby World Cup in 2007.



On this official visit, William and Kate also plan to meet some of those involved in the response to the 2015 terrorist attacks at the Bataclan theatre in Paris as well as the truck attack in Nice on Bastille Day last year.

A Foreign Office spokesman said royal visits played a very important role in British diplomacy.

Royals and Anglo-French diplomacy

William and Kate are not the first royals to head to France amid diplomatic difficulties. Queen Elizabeth II’s first state visit there, in April 1957, coincided with the Suez Crisis.



Although the two nations were united in the opposition to Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser and their aim to regain western control of the Suez Canal, France’s failure to to inform Britain about the involvement of Israel until very close to the commencement of military action in late 1956 strained relations. The Queen’s official visit to President Coty sought to both soothe and reinforce the UK’s relationship with France.



The Queen’s second state visit in May 1972 was ironically an attempt by France rather than the United Kingdom to improve relations regarding UK’s entry into, rather than departure from, the European Economic Community. President Georges Pompidou’s new government was keen for friendlier dialogue with Britain, welcoming their membership of the EEC, which President De Gaulle had previously opposed. This would help to pave the way for Britain to do so the next year.

Against a backdrop of gathering menace in Europe in the 1930’s, the Queen’s father George VI made similar attempts to bolster Anglo-French relations with an official trip to France in 1938, which aimed to strategically emphasise the values of the two “liberal democracies” in the face of the threat from Nazi Germany. Marianna Spring