'Spider-Man' Villain Venom Will Have His Own Movie in Theaters Sooner Than You Think
'Spider-Man' Villain Venom Will Have His Own Movie in Theaters Sooner Than You Think
Next year will bring the arrival of the long-awaited spin-off , thanks to the recent release date shuffling of . Venom will now hit theaters on Oct. 5, 2018,  reported late Thursday. Confirmation of the spin-off finally moving closer toward existence first surfaced last March. According to a separate report from the , who first broke news of the spin-off's revival last year , is currently a film without a director. Previously, Alex Kurtzman ( ) had been rumored as a possible director pick. A script draft was recently turned in from Scott Rosenberg ( ) and Jeff Pinkner ( ), following a previous draft from Dante Harper ( ). franchise regulars Avi Arad and Matt Tolmach will produce. The villainous symbiote hooked up with photographer Eddie Brock in Sam Raimi's 2007 film , a pairing played by Topher Grace. The film received relatively mixed reviews and marked the final Raimi-helmed entry in the franchise, which was later rebooted in 2012 with Marc Webb's . An actor for this 2018 take on Venom has not been announced. Jon Watts' , starring Tom Holland as Spidey/Peter Parker, hits theaters this July. The (second!) reboot of the Spidey franchise also stars Zendaya, Michael Keaton, Marisa Tomei, Donald Glover , and Robert Downey Jr. As previously reported, Holland will likely punch approximately zero bad guys in the film. A sequel, currently titled , has been scheduled for July 5, 2019 .

Next year will bring the arrival of the long-awaited Spider-Man spin-off Venom, thanks to the recent release date shuffling of Aquaman. Venom will now hit theaters on Oct. 5, 2018, Entertainment Weekly reported late Thursday. Confirmation of the spin-off finally moving closer toward existence first surfaced last March.

According to a separate report from the Hollywood Reporter, who first broke news of the spin-off's revival last year, Venom is currently a film without a director. Previously, Alex Kurtzman (The Mummy) had been rumored as a possible director pick. A script draft was recently turned in from Scott Rosenberg (Jumanji) and Jeff Pinkner (The Amazing Spider-Man 2), following a previous draft from Dante Harper (Edge of Tomorrow). Spider-Man franchise regulars Avi Arad and Matt Tolmach will produce.

The villainous symbiote hooked up with Daily Bugle photographer Eddie Brock in Sam Raimi's 2007 film Spider-Man 3, a pairing played by Topher Grace. The film received relatively mixed reviews and marked the final Raimi-helmed entry in the franchise, which was later rebooted in 2012 with Marc Webb's The Amazing Spider-Man. An actor for this 2018 take on Venom has not been announced.

Jon Watts' Spider-Man: Homecoming, starring Tom Holland as Spidey/Peter Parker, hits theaters this July. The (second!) reboot of the Spidey franchise also stars Zendaya, Michael Keaton, Marisa Tomei, Donald Glover, and Robert Downey Jr. As previously reported, Holland will likely punch approximately zero bad guys in the film. A sequel, currently titled Spider-Man: Homecoming 2, has been scheduled for July 5, 2019.