The 10 Biggest Problems With Season 7 Of 'The Walking Dead'
The 10 Biggest Problems With Season 7 Of 'The Walking Dead'
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Erik Kain       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Credit: AMC The Walking Dead's seventh season is a disaster. The seventh season of may have been one too many. Rick and company have found themselves in an impossible quagmire---not merely trapped by Negan's awful antics, but by a show that's sunk to new lows, both in terms of ratings and quality. What on earth is going on? Just about all of worst tendencies are on display this season, but many of them are more glaring than ever. Meanwhile, some new problems have surfaced now that our group of survivors have discovered, much to their surprise, that quite a few people actually survived the zombie apocalypse intact. Here's my best attempt to break down all the problems facing in its seventh season. For simplicity's sake, I've limited my list to ten. Credit: AMC This should have been Maggie's season. It's bad enough that the show killed off Glenn, one of the few characters who was genuinely likable on For the sake of argument, we'll assume that they had to...because the comics did. (I don't like that argument, but whatever.) The real problem with his death is how it affected the rest of the season. The one person who his death really should have impacted the most was his wife, Maggie. His pregnant wife who loved him madly and who had recently lost both her sister and father in horribly violent murders. Maggie's father, Hershel, was killed by having Her sister was shot just moments before they could have reunited. Now her husband had his head But Maggie is basically an afterthought this season, almost ignored by the show. The few times we've seen her she's been overshadowed by Gregory, the moronic leader of the equally worthless Hilltop community. She's also had to share screen-time with Sasha (who is alright this season) and Enid (who is a completely pointless character) and the incredibly disappointing Jesus (who was badly miscast.) This season should be She should be the chief protagonist, fully invested in seeking vengeance on Negan for brutally murdering her husband. Instead, the chief struggle is given to Rick. Instead, we've gotten tons of Negan, plenty of Dwight, a bunch of Eugene and Rosita, and almost no Maggie. This makes no sense. It's insulting to her character and to viewers, and it speaks to the storytelling shortcomings that plague this season of the show. The baffling treatment of Carol is another great example of really failing to treat its best characters with respect. Her transition from badass warrior to meek and timid PTSD survivor is bizarre. Before you list off all the reasons it makes sense (her history with abuse, her daughter's death, her killing of that one crazy girl, etc.) let me stop you. All these are things that should have made her a tougher character, more prepared to do what was necessary to survive. Actually, I think they made her too tough for a while---she treated that Sam kid really badly, for instance, and was kind of a prick to the Alexandria community---but to top that off by having her perform a complete 180 degree turn is just weird. That it's taken Carol 13 episodes to revert to her normal self is pretty terrible. That we've barely gotten any of her this season because of it is even worse. And it's kind of a pointless character arc to begin with, unlike the much more interesting turn away from violence (and return to violence) that Morgan has undergone. Carol is the best example, but plenty of other characters are getting worse as time passes. Rosita has become almost unwatchable for no good reason. Rick was painful to watch for much of Season 7, and is only slightly better now. At least Gabriel has improved. That's something. Credit: AMC Rally round your family. To be fair, strength has never been its amazing writing. The show has long tasked characters with doing really silly things that are out of character in service of the plot. It's asked us many, many times to choke down our disbelief at how people act and the decisions they make. But in Season 7, the decisions being made are simply too awful. The lines being delivered are often laughably bad, even from series stalwarts like Daryl, Carol and Louie. And with bad lines, the surprisingly British cast often sounds surprisingly bad. From Maggie to Rick to Jesus and even sometimes Morgan, the southern drawl has felt more over-the-top than ever. (I keep calling episode after episode this season the worst.) I'm often a little perplexed by some of the plot points and character decisions in but now it's grown even more bizarre, with the trash people acting not just out of character, but not even like real people. It's just a strange, poorly written season that doesn't seem to know what it wants to do. And whereas past season that fell into similar plot traps usually at least had pretty good dialogue, this one has been hit and miss at best. Meanwhile, truly bizarre choices are being made by the remaining survivors. Rick giving up the guns to Negan without hiding a few? No way! Stupid Carl going to kill Negan all by himself? I guess that silly haircut has gotten to his head. (Speaking of which, where is Carl these days? He completely disappeared from the show, inexplicably. Even Judith has gotten more scenes lately. And speaking of Judith, why is she never being cared for by actual grown-ups?) The Walking Dead's Biggest, Most Shocking Deaths Once upon a time, was a story about a band of survivors trying to make it in a harsh, zombie-infested world. Occasionally they'd come across other people. Sometimes these people would be kind and compassionate, like Hershel and Maggie and Beth at their farm. Other times they'd be complicated villains, like the Governor. Sometimes they'd just be bandits, or a ragtag band of creepy police officers. And always, in-between, the survivors would move on, trudging down the weary road and trying to stay safe from the living and the dead alike. Rick said, huddled in a barn in the dark, flanked by his small clan of survivors. Turns out, Rick and crew are actually the "live in a nice house with running water" dead. They're the "driving" dead because every car has gas. Gone are the survival trappings that once helped define the show. Now we have a pretty well-populated region filled with living and short on dead, replete with creature comforts like video games and hot showers. Credit: AMC King Ezekiel treats Carol like a princess. There's , or what remains of it after Rick and gang basically destroyed it. Also , a land where sorghum farmers have congregated under their fearful leader Gregory. is a huge and prosperous community led by a guy who speaks like Shakespeare and has a pet tiger. Don't forget , the matriarchy of crazy women who shoot anything and anybody on sight without question. Or my favorite, the , who live in a dump and speak in a weird, nonsensical pidgin because, you know, five years of apocalypse is enough to fundamentally change the way people use the English language. And finally, the , Negan's band of baddies hellbent on bashing people to bits. Credit: AMC We need to talk. That's in and around the D.C. area, presumably within...let's say a 50 mile radius, if we're being generous, or at least a distance you can cross very quickly by car and within days on foot. Many of these communities live in nice houses, have their daily needs taken care of. The Saviors make homemade potato chips! The Kingdom has a choir! Oceanside has a bunch of guns! The trash people...they have trash! And no emotions! Oh, wait, there are zombies in this show? I forgot about those.... In many of these communities there are medical professionals known as "doctors." Doctors are able to do amazing things like perform surgery, diagnose illnesses, treat infections and, in die horrible deaths for no good reason. Rick killed Dr. Pete a couple seasons back. But Alexandria never thought to train a replacement, even though they had Denise. Then, when Denise took over as pseudo-doctor, nobody thought it might be important to Instead she went out scavenging. Thankfully Rosita and Daryl went with her to keep her safe. Credit: AMC Oh snap! Hey but Hilltop has a doctor, right? a doctor, I should say. They also thought it would be a good idea to send him out scavenging. Where he died a horrible death, of course. Because doctors don't matter, and they should totally be out on the front lines instead of safely tucked away to help save lives back home. Thankfully, Negan kept his own doctor safe and sound, back in the Saviors' fortress tending to wounds and offering up his advice to grateful Saviors like Dwight. No way anything bad could happen to that guy right? Credit: AMC Oh no he didn't! One thing that has always gotten right is special effects. Most notably, zombies in all their bloody, gory glory. Season 7 promised some of the most advanced special effects yet, with King Ezekiel's tiger taking center stage. Unfortunately, it looks like all that tiger money meant a shoestring budget for other special effects, like this fake landfill behind Rick when he first meets the Garbage Pail Kids: Credit: AMC Wow that's fake. I mean holy god almighty. This was pretty shocking to see, but I could almost forgive the fake backdrop as part of a stylistic choice . After all, the entire trash people segment felt like something out of Maybe they were going for fake and cheesy? Alas, things only got worse a few episodes later, when Rick encountered a deer so fake that it caused him to literally fall from his perch on a Ferris Wheel into the path of oncoming zombies : Credit: AMC Run, run Rudolph. This is some of the worst special effects I've ever seen in a modern TV show. It's like someone photo-shopped a deer and then cut and pasted it into the episode. A 2D image fuzzily glued into a three-dimensional scene, with all the lighting wrong and shadows off. It's bad enough that I was distracted from the rest of the bad stuff that followed. Credit: AMC Eugene the coward. Maybe I should rephrase this. These days, it's like I can't tell which episodes are filler and which episodes are the ones we're supposed to pay attention to. Almost everything feels like filler. Some episodes that ought to be filler end up being better than some of the episodes that push the main storyline. I never expected to like an episode centered around Eugene and Dwight, but it was one of the better ones in the back half of Season 7 . Meanwhile we have entire episodes devoted to Rick and Michonne off hunting for guns, or even the entire cast together again plotting against Negan, and it still feels like filler. I bet you could take all the good stuff from the second half of the season and combine it into two or so episodes. My crazy take on this? If can't justify sixteen episodes per season and has to stuff with this much filler, it's time to rethink long seasons. Maybe winnow a season down to twelve or ten and make every episode count. Credit: AMC Laugh it up, Sparky. Along with all this filler, bad writing, awful CGI and all the rest is one very big, very irritating problem: The villain this time around sucks. Honestly, I think the show is at its best without Big Bad Guys. The governor was only good because we could relate to him. He wasn't all bad. There was room for him to be redeemed, and a part of me hoped he would be. But Negan? Negan is just irritating. He's always swaying his hips and over-pronouncing things. He speaks in silly nursery rhymes and thinks he's the best thing since sliced bread. There's no reason I can see that anybody follows him. He rules through terror and violence, and does nothing (that we see, at least) to inspire his people to true loyalty. Everyone seems to want to kill him, including his own wives. Including me. Thankfully there's been fewer Negan scenes in part two of the season. Either way, it just stinks to dislike a villain for all the wrong reasons. Then there's consistency problems. Perhaps the biggest head-scratcher is why Negan doesn't just kill them all, or at least all the men? He did this with other communities who did far less to him. Rick's group murdered a ton of Negan's people, many in their sleep. He had no reason to spare them. He had no reason to spare Carl or Rosita, and certainly not Rick. This makes no sense, especially for the Most Terrifying Villain Ever. Maybe all of this worked beautifully in the comics, but on TV Negan is a huge disappointment. In the comics, I realize that much of this never happened. Rick's group didn't murder dozens of Negan's people, so it makes more sense that he lets them live. There's no Daryl. Carl takes the shot and hits Lucille. Things are very different and it makes more sense. The TV show, well, see my point about "filler." It has more of an impact than just boring episodes. And the fact that Negan was part of the huge build-up between Season 6 and Season 7 didn't help matters. Which brings me to.... Credit: AMC Sand zombies! In Season 6, the showrunners fooled us into thinking Glenn was dead. It was a dirty trick that I called out at the time as a pretty crappy way to toy with viewers' emotions. (The show had messed with viewers in the past, but this was unprecedented in that they "killed" Glenn off and then took several more episodes to come clean.) Right from the get-go in Season 7, the show has obsessed over "faking out" its audience. This started with Negan killing off Abraham and then, just when we thought he was safe, killing off Glenn. After making us wait for months to find out who dies, they used a cheap fake out to really tug at the heartstrings. Of course, the showrunners couldn't stop there. Later in the season they faked us out by making us think Heath was dead. When Tara returns to a bridge swarming in sand-covered zombies she sees one that has the same clothes and haircut as Heath and isn't covered in sand. Then it turns out to be a female zombie. So somehow this one zombie not only isn't covered in sand like the rest, but is also black, wearing a blue shirt and has dreadlocks. Treat us like we're stupid, AMC. In the above fake deer scene, Rick falls to the ground surrounded by zombies. Michonne runs over to help and we see the zombies feasting on something. There's blood everywhere. This is just a terrible, lazy fake-out, because we all know that Rick is fine. We all know that he wouldn't die that way. Michonne even drops her sword and doesn't bother trying to see if it's him, which is dumb and something Michonne would never do. And there's no way those zombies would have caught the deer, either. Well...maybe, I mean, I guess I don't know how fast fake deer are. That's beside the point. The point is they keep trying to fake out audiences, sometimes effectively and sometimes not and it's really getting silly. It's lazy and cheap and nobody's even falling for these dumb tricks anymore. Credit: AMC The open road, and a bushier beard, beckons. This is the big one. This is the one that I just can't figure out. Sure, I could come up with reasons, but the show hasn't bothered to explain it to us. Why doesn't Rick just take his people and go? As a father, I really can't understand how he wouldn't just pack up his family and run like hell. His friends would follow him. Lord knows they follow every other hair-brained scheme he concocts. There's nothing left for them here but death and suffering. Negan won't leave them alone. Now that Daryl's back, why not just grab their friends at Hilltop and leave? Alexandria is done for. The open road is waiting. Negan's reach can only go so far given the geographical realities of the North American continent. Well, maybe for revenge. And maybe the show could have that debate take place on screen. Maybe some people could advocate leaving and Sasha and Rosita and that one character...Maggie is it?...maybe the three of them could argue for sweet, sweet revenge. And Morgan could be like, "Revenge is a dish best served cold, ladies." Or maybe it's too dangerous. Maybe someone could argue that Negan would hunt them down before they got very far and that this would make matters worse. (I don't buy that at all given how long they traversed the South without ever even hearing about the Saviors, but someone could at least argue it.) Hell, someone could even argue that rescuing Eugene is reason enough, though a wiser leader than Rick might then point out that Eugene is probably doing fine and there's no reason to risk the lives of children to save the group's most notorious coward, who led them to this area on a lie in the first place. The problem is, none of these very normal, very human conversations even take place. Everyone just accepts that the only two choices are A) stay and serve as Negan's lapdogs or B) stay and fight Negan, by recruiting anyone who can carry a gun, including weird Garbage Pail Kids who are too lazy to go find their own guns. These are the choices. And I get that someone like Ezekiel only has these choices. The Kingdom is too established a community, too safe and prosperous to dig up roots and move. But Rick's group is a rag-tag band of survivors more accustomed to the road than their current circumstances. And this is the group we've been watching from the beginning, plus and minus some folks. We watched them because they were survivors, traversing a post-apocalyptic America, trying to make their way. We didn't watch this show to get bogged down amidst half a dozen different communities, with far too many characters than we can possibly keep track of, while the best in the bunch---like Glenn---are killed off, and others like Maggie and Carol are barely given screen time. This is what I mean when I say the show has changed, and not for the better. It's changed for the worse, and I see no way of it coming back from the brink without some serious changes. Credit: AMC The Walking Dead can be badass again. Gosh, I thought you'd never ask! , I'd get the group moving again. The show is best when they're on the open road, scraping by, scavenging for food and gas and bullets. It's always a drag when they languish too long with too many creature comforts. There's almost never a reason to have an entire season devoted to one other group of bad guys. Hell, even having them run away or be hunted by an enemy could be way more exciting than this slog we're in now. Besides, there's just so many places---real, physical places---that the group could go. What's zombified Philadelphia like? How about the Great Lakes? The badlands? Go explore! I'd ditch the comics as much as possible, as my colleague Paul Tassi has suggested . The TV show started out as its own unique story, inspired by the comics but largely changing the story as it needed to. Now it's gotten too deep into the comics, while still changing major plot points, and the result is an incoherent mess. Let's leave the comics behind and strike out into uncharted territory. strip down the number of episodes in a season from 16 to 12. Then really focus on creating dramatic stories around the characters rather than having the characters do weird things to push the plot along. Lose the filler, lose the weird choices that don't make sense, and put the characters in tough situations where they have to make tough choices. Let the action do the rest. I'd de-emphasize human vs human conflict, and have more zombie stuff, or at least more moments where the undead make an impact. It's crazy when the living turn, for instance. Moments like that can change a safe place into sudden death and chaos. But the human conflicts lately have felt like too much, and have added too many new faces to the show. , I'd get new people working on this beast. If nothing else, the one-two punch of sliding ratings and a really mixed critical response should signal that it's time for new leadership and some fresh writing chops in the writer's room. I watch shows like (also on AMC) and I just can't reconcile how the same channel can put out such disparate material. I've said this before, but I'd love to see what the team could do with for a season. New ideas and new direction seems imperative. And that includes getting Kirkman to focus on the comics and leave the TV stuff to TV people. Credit: AMC Maybe it's time to close the book. All of this makes one very big assumption: That should even continue, at least in this form. After the finale of second season, I suggested that FTWD should become an anthology show. By the end of Season 3 they should wrap up the storyline and all its character arcs (possibly moving one survivor over to ) and start fresh, with a new group at the outset of the zombie apocalypse. Have them start out in Minnesota or something. This is basically what TellTale's video games do , though they tie the different stories together through some common characters. Well, the same can be said for Maybe these characters and this story has run its course. Maybe it's time to call it quits, and focus on other stories. Of course, with viewership still hovering over 10 million each week (way down from its high-point in season 5) there's no way AMC will call it quits. So my other suggestions stand. I could probably come up with more, but these five cover quite a few bases I think. What about you? What do you think? I'd love it if you followed me on Twitter and Facebook and subscribed to my channel on YouTube . Also feel free to subscribe to my posts by email . Thanks for reading. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Credit: AMC

The seventh season of The Walking Dead may have been one too many. Rick and company have found themselves in an impossible quagmire---not merely trapped by Negan's awful antics, but by a show that's sunk to new lows, both in terms of ratings and quality. What on earth is going on?

Just about all of The Walking Dead's worst tendencies are on display this season, but many of them are more glaring than ever. Meanwhile, some new problems have surfaced now that our group of survivors have discovered, much to their surprise, that quite a few people actually survived the zombie apocalypse intact.

Here's my best attempt to break down all the problems facing The Walking Dead in its seventh season. For simplicity's sake, I've limited my list to ten.

1. There's something about Maggie....

Credit: AMC

It's bad enough that the show killed off Glenn, one of the few characters who was genuinely likable on The Walking Dead. For the sake of argument, we'll assume that they had to...because the comics did. (I don't like that argument, but whatever.)

The real problem with his death is how it affected the rest of the season. The one person who his death really should have impacted the most was his wife, Maggie. His pregnant wife who loved him madly and who had recently lost both her sister and father in horribly violent murders.

Maggie's father, Hershel, was killed by having his head chopped off. Her sister was shot just moments before they could have reunited. Now her husband had his head beat to a pulp by a baseball bat covered in barbed wire.

But Maggie is basically an afterthought this season, almost ignored by the show. The few times we've seen her she's been overshadowed by Gregory, the moronic leader of the equally worthless Hilltop community. She's also had to share screen-time with Sasha (who is alright this season) and Enid (who is a completely pointless character) and the incredibly disappointing Jesus (who was badly miscast.)

This season should be about Maggie. She should be the chief protagonist, fully invested in seeking vengeance on Negan for brutally murdering her husband. Instead, the chief struggle is given to Rick. Instead, we've gotten tons of Negan, plenty of Dwight, a bunch of Eugene and Rosita, and almost no Maggie. This makes no sense. It's insulting to her character and to viewers, and it speaks to the storytelling shortcomings that plague this season of the show.

2. Other characters have been given short shrift as well.

The baffling treatment of Carol is another great example of The Walking Dead really failing to treat its best characters with respect. Her transition from badass warrior to meek and timid PTSD survivor is bizarre.

Before you list off all the reasons it makes sense (her history with abuse, her daughter's death, her killing of that one crazy girl, etc.) let me stop you. All these are things that should have made her a tougher character, more prepared to do what was necessary to survive. Actually, I think they made her too tough for a while---she treated that Sam kid really badly, for instance, and was kind of a prick to the Alexandria community---but to top that off by having her perform a complete 180 degree turn is just weird.

That it's taken Carol 13 episodes to revert to her normal self is pretty terrible. That we've barely gotten any of her this season because of it is even worse. And it's kind of a pointless character arc to begin with, unlike the much more interesting turn away from violence (and return to violence) that Morgan has undergone.

Carol is the best example, but plenty of other characters are getting worse as time passes. Rosita has become almost unwatchable for no good reason. Rick was painful to watch for much of Season 7, and is only slightly better now.

At least Gabriel has improved. That's something.

Credit: AMC

3. The writing has been exceptionally bad, even by Walking Dead standards.

To be fair, The Walking Dead's strength has never been its amazing writing. The show has long tasked characters with doing really silly things that are out of character in service of the plot. It's asked us many, many times to choke down our disbelief at how people act and the decisions they make.

But in Season 7, the decisions being made are simply too awful. The lines being delivered are often laughably bad, even from series stalwarts like Daryl, Carol and Louie. And with bad lines, the surprisingly British cast often sounds surprisingly bad. From Maggie to Rick to Jesus and even sometimes Morgan, the southern drawl has felt more over-the-top than ever.

(I keep calling episode after episode this season the worst.)

I'm often a little perplexed by some of the plot points and character decisions in The Walking Dead, but now it's grown even more bizarre, with the trash people acting not just out of character, but not even like real people. It's just a strange, poorly written season that doesn't seem to know what it wants to do. And whereas past season that fell into similar plot traps usually at least had pretty good dialogue, this one has been hit and miss at best.

Meanwhile, truly bizarre choices are being made by the remaining survivors. Rick giving up the guns to Negan without hiding a few? No way! Stupid Carl going to kill Negan all by himself? I guess that silly haircut has gotten to his head. (Speaking of which, where is Carl these days? He completely disappeared from the show, inexplicably. Even Judith has gotten more scenes lately. And speaking of Judith, why is she never being cared for by actual grown-ups?)

4. There are too many communities of survivors.

Once upon a time, The Walking Dead was a story about a band of survivors trying to make it in a harsh, zombie-infested world. Occasionally they'd come across other people. Sometimes these people would be kind and compassionate, like Hershel and Maggie and Beth at their farm. Other times they'd be complicated villains, like the Governor.

Sometimes they'd just be bandits, or a ragtag band of creepy police officers. And always, in-between, the survivors would move on, trudging down the weary road and trying to stay safe from the living and the dead alike. "We are the walking dead," Rick said, huddled in a barn in the dark, flanked by his small clan of survivors.

Turns out, Rick and crew are actually the "live in a nice house with running water" dead. They're the "driving" dead because every car has gas. Gone are the survival trappings that once helped define the show. Now we have a pretty well-populated region filled with living and short on dead, replete with creature comforts like video games and hot showers.

Credit: AMC

There's Alexandria, or what remains of it after Rick and gang basically destroyed it.

Also Hilltop, a land where sorghum farmers have congregated under their fearful leader Gregory.

The Kingdom is a huge and prosperous community led by a guy who speaks like Shakespeare and has a pet tiger.

Don't forget Oceanside, the matriarchy of crazy women who shoot anything and anybody on sight without question.

Or my favorite, the Garbage Pail Kids, who live in a dump and speak in a weird, nonsensical pidgin because, you know, five years of apocalypse is enough to fundamentally change the way people use the English language.

And finally, the Saviors, Negan's band of baddies hellbent on bashing people to bits.

Credit: AMC

That's six whole communities in and around the D.C. area, presumably within...let's say a 50 mile radius, if we're being generous, or at least a distance you can cross very quickly by car and within days on foot.

Many of these communities live in nice houses, have their daily needs taken care of. The Saviors make homemade potato chips! The Kingdom has a choir! Oceanside has a bunch of guns! The trash people...they have trash! And no emotions!

Oh, wait, there are zombies in this show? I forgot about those....

5. Nobody cares about doctors for some reason.

In many of these communities there are medical professionals known as "doctors." Doctors are able to do amazing things like perform surgery, diagnose illnesses, treat infections and, in The Walking Dead, die horrible deaths for no good reason.

Rick killed Dr. Pete a couple seasons back. But Alexandria never thought to train a replacement, even though they had Denise. Then, when Denise took over as pseudo-doctor, nobody thought it might be important to keep her safe and sound inside the settlement walls. Instead she went out scavenging. Thankfully Rosita and Daryl went with her to keep her safe.

Credit: AMC

Hey but Hilltop has a doctor, right? Had a doctor, I should say. They also thought it would be a good idea to send him out scavenging. Where he died a horrible death, of course. Because doctors don't matter, and they should totally be out on the front lines instead of safely tucked away to help save lives back home.

Thankfully, Negan kept his own doctor safe and sound, back in the Saviors' fortress tending to wounds and offering up his advice to grateful Saviors like Dwight. No way anything bad could happen to that guy right?

Credit: AMC

6. Even the special effects have fallen on hard times.

One thing that The Walking Dead has always gotten right is special effects. Most notably, zombies in all their bloody, gory glory.

Season 7 promised some of the most advanced special effects yet, with King Ezekiel's tiger taking center stage. Unfortunately, it looks like all that tiger money meant a shoestring budget for other special effects, like this fake landfill behind Rick when he first meets the Garbage Pail Kids:

Credit: AMC

This was pretty shocking to see, but I could almost forgive the fake backdrop as part of a stylistic choice. After all, the entire trash people segment felt like something out of Planet of the Apes. Maybe they were going for fake and cheesy?

Alas, things only got worse a few episodes later, when Rick encountered a deer so fake that it caused him to literally fall from his perch on a Ferris Wheel into the path of oncoming zombies:

Credit: AMC

This is some of the worst special effects I've ever seen in a modern TV show. It's like someone photo-shopped a deer and then cut and pasted it into the episode. A 2D image fuzzily glued into a three-dimensional scene, with all the lighting wrong and shadows off. It's bad enough that I was distracted from the rest of the bad stuff that followed.

7. At least half the episodes feel like filler now.

Credit: AMC

Maybe I should rephrase this. These days, it's like I can't tell which episodes are filler and which episodes are the ones we're supposed to pay attention to. Almost everything feels like filler.

Some episodes that ought to be filler end up being better than some of the episodes that push the main storyline. I never expected to like an episode centered around Eugene and Dwight, but it was one of the better ones in the back half of Season 7.

Meanwhile we have entire episodes devoted to Rick and Michonne off hunting for guns, or even the entire cast together again plotting against Negan, and it still feels like filler. I bet you could take all the good stuff from the second half of the season and combine it into two or so episodes.

My crazy take on this? If The Walking Dead can't justify sixteen episodes per season and has to stuff with this much filler, it's time to rethink long seasons. Maybe winnow a season down to twelve or ten and make every episode count.

8. Negan is the worst villain, but not in a good way.

Credit: AMC

Along with all this filler, bad writing, awful CGI and all the rest is one very big, very irritating problem: The villain this time around sucks.

Honestly, I think the show is at its best without Big Bad Guys. The governor was only good because we could relate to him. He wasn't all bad. There was room for him to be redeemed, and a part of me hoped he would be.

But Negan? Negan is just irritating. He's always swaying his hips and over-pronouncing things. He speaks in silly nursery rhymes and thinks he's the best thing since sliced bread. There's no reason I can see that anybody follows him. He rules through terror and violence, and does nothing (that we see, at least) to inspire his people to true loyalty. Everyone seems to want to kill him, including his own wives.

Including me.

Thankfully there's been fewer Negan scenes in part two of the season. Either way, it just stinks to dislike a villain for all the wrong reasons.

Then there's consistency problems. Perhaps the biggest head-scratcher is why Negan doesn't just kill them all, or at least all the men? He did this with other communities who did far less to him. Rick's group murdered a ton of Negan's people, many in their sleep. He had no reason to spare them. He had no reason to spare Carl or Rosita, and certainly not Rick. This makes no sense, especially for the Most Terrifying Villain Ever.

Maybe all of this worked beautifully in the comics, but on TV Negan is a huge disappointment. In the comics, I realize that much of this never happened. Rick's group didn't murder dozens of Negan's people, so it makes more sense that he lets them live. There's no Daryl. Carl takes the shot and hits Lucille. Things are very different and it makes more sense. The TV show, well, see my point about "filler." It has more of an impact than just boring episodes.

And the fact that Negan was part of the huge build-up between Season 6 and Season 7 didn't help matters.

Which brings me to....

Credit: AMC

The show keeps trying to 'fake out' its viewers.

In Season 6, the showrunners fooled us into thinking Glenn was dead. It was a dirty trick that I called out at the time as a pretty crappy way to toy with viewers' emotions. (The show had messed with viewers in the past, but this was unprecedented in that they "killed" Glenn off and then took several more episodes to come clean.)

Right from the get-go in Season 7, the show has obsessed over "faking out" its audience. This started with Negan killing off Abraham and then, just when we thought he was safe, killing off Glenn. After making us wait for months to find out who dies, they used a cheap fake out to really tug at the heartstrings.

Of course, the showrunners couldn't stop there. Later in the season they faked us out by making us think Heath was dead. When Tara returns to a bridge swarming in sand-covered zombies she sees one that has the same clothes and haircut as Heath and isn't covered in sand. Then it turns out to be a female zombie. So somehow this one zombie not only isn't covered in sand like the rest, but is also black, wearing a blue shirt and has dreadlocks. Treat us like we're stupid, AMC.

In the above fake deer scene, Rick falls to the ground surrounded by zombies. Michonne runs over to help and we see the zombies feasting on something. There's blood everywhere.

This is just a terrible, lazy fake-out, because we all know that Rick is fine. We all know that he wouldn't die that way. Michonne even drops her sword and doesn't bother trying to see if it's him, which is dumb and something Michonne would never do.

And there's no way those zombies would have caught the deer, either. Well...maybe, I mean, I guess I don't know how fast fake deer are. That's beside the point. The point is they keep trying to fake out audiences, sometimes effectively and sometimes not and it's really getting silly. It's lazy and cheap and nobody's even falling for these dumb tricks anymore.

Why on earth don't they just leave?

Credit: AMC

This is the big one. This is the one that I just can't figure out. Sure, I could come up with reasons, but the show hasn't bothered to explain it to us.

Why doesn't Rick just take his people and go? As a father, I really can't understand how he wouldn't just pack up his family and run like hell. His friends would follow him. Lord knows they follow every other hair-brained scheme he concocts.

There's nothing left for them here but death and suffering. Negan won't leave them alone. Now that Daryl's back, why not just grab their friends at Hilltop and leave? Alexandria is done for. The open road is waiting. Negan's reach can only go so far given the geographical realities of the North American continent.

Well, maybe for revenge. And maybe the show could have that debate take place on screen. Maybe some people could advocate leaving and Sasha and Rosita and that one character...Maggie is it?...maybe the three of them could argue for sweet, sweet revenge.

And Morgan could be like, "Revenge is a dish best served cold, ladies."

Or maybe it's too dangerous. Maybe someone could argue that Negan would hunt them down before they got very far and that this would make matters worse. (I don't buy that at all given how long they traversed the South without ever even hearing about the Saviors, but someone could at least argue it.)

Hell, someone could even argue that rescuing Eugene is reason enough, though a wiser leader than Rick might then point out that Eugene is probably doing fine and there's no reason to risk the lives of children to save the group's most notorious coward, who led them to this area on a lie in the first place.

The problem is, none of these very normal, very human conversations even take place. Everyone just accepts that the only two choices are A) stay and serve as Negan's lapdogs or B) stay and fight Negan, by recruiting anyone who can carry a gun, including weird Garbage Pail Kids who are too lazy to go find their own guns.

These are the choices. And I get that someone like Ezekiel only has these choices. The Kingdom is too established a community, too safe and prosperous to dig up roots and move. But Rick's group is a rag-tag band of survivors more accustomed to the road than their current circumstances.

And this is the group we've been watching from the beginning, plus and minus some folks. We watched them because they were survivors, traversing a post-apocalyptic America, trying to make their way. We didn't watch this show to get bogged down amidst half a dozen different communities, with far too many characters than we can possibly keep track of, while the best in the bunch---like Glenn---are killed off, and others like Maggie and Carol are barely given screen time.

This is what I mean when I say the show has changed, and not for the better. It's changed for the worse, and I see no way of it coming back from the brink without some serious changes.

Credit: AMC

Okay smart guy, what do you propose?

Gosh, I thought you'd never ask!

First things first, I'd get the group moving again. The show is best when they're on the open road, scraping by, scavenging for food and gas and bullets. It's always a drag when they languish too long with too many creature comforts. There's almost never a reason to have an entire season devoted to one other group of bad guys. Hell, even having them run away or be hunted by an enemy could be way more exciting than this slog we're in now. Besides, there's just so many places---real, physical places---that the group could go. What's zombified Philadelphia like? How about the Great Lakes? The badlands? Go explore!

Second, I'd ditch the comics as much as possible, as my colleague Paul Tassi has suggested. The TV show started out as its own unique story, inspired by the comics but largely changing the story as it needed to. Now it's gotten too deep into the comics, while still changing major plot points, and the result is an incoherent mess. Let's leave the comics behind and strike out into uncharted territory.

Third, strip down the number of episodes in a season from 16 to 12. Then really focus on creating dramatic stories around the characters rather than having the characters do weird things to push the plot along. Lose the filler, lose the weird choices that don't make sense, and put the characters in tough situations where they have to make tough choices. Let the action do the rest.

Fourth, I'd de-emphasize human vs human conflict, and have more zombie stuff, or at least more moments where the undead make an impact. It's crazy when the living turn, for instance. Moments like that can change a safe place into sudden death and chaos. But the human conflicts lately have felt like too much, and have added too many new faces to the show.

And finally, I'd get new people working on this beast. If nothing else, the one-two punch of sliding ratings and a really mixed critical response should signal that it's time for new leadership and some fresh writing chops in the writer's room. I watch shows like Better Call Saul (also on AMC) and I just can't reconcile how the same channel can put out such disparate material. I've said this before, but I'd love to see what the Saul team could do with The Walking Dead for a season. New ideas and new direction seems imperative. And that includes getting Kirkman to focus on the comics and leave the TV stuff to TV people.

Or just end it.

Credit: AMC

All of this makes one very big assumption: That The Walking Dead should even continue, at least in this form. After the finale of Fear the Walking Dead's second season, I suggested that FTWD should become an anthology show. By the end of Season 3 they should wrap up the storyline and all its character arcs (possibly moving one survivor over to The Walking Dead) and start fresh, with a new group at the outset of the zombie apocalypse. Have them start out in Minnesota or something. This is basically what TellTale's video games do, though they tie the different stories together through some common characters.

Well, the same can be said for The Walking Dead. Maybe these characters and this story has run its course. Maybe it's time to call it quits, and focus on other stories. Of course, with viewership still hovering over 10 million each week (way down from its high-point in season 5) there's no way AMC will call it quits. So my other suggestions stand. I could probably come up with more, but these five cover quite a few bases I think.

What about you? What do you think?

I'd love it if you followed me on Twitter and Facebook and subscribed to my channel on YouTube. Also feel free to subscribe to my posts by email. Thanks for reading.