'Ed Miliband to edit Heat magazine': How social media reacted to George Osborne becoming editor of the Evening Standard
'Ed Miliband to edit Heat magazine': How social media reacted to George Osborne becoming editor of the Evening Standard
any were shocked by the news that former Chancellor George Osborne is to take yet another job - editing the Evening Standard. Of course, there were many jokes made on social media - though not by Jeremy Corbyn, who was scandalised. Former Labour leader Ed Miliband joined in on the fun, claiming to have been made editor of Heat magazine. Although some worry about how much time he will be able to spend on his other jobs, and how he will serve his constituents while doing this important job, most were able to make light of the situation. Here is the best of the social media reaction. Is this how he will enter his new office? Osborne coming into journalism like pic.twitter.com/5Qf61hCwIW Ed Miliband cracked a joke Breaking: I will shortly be announced as editor of Heat magazine.... Though this may be a more likely appointment Surprised and delighted that Ed Miliband is the new editor of Doctor Who Magazine. pic.twitter.com/zM0ZPYDODy Our Chrisopher Hope pointed out that we gave him his start in journalism Very happy that ex- @Telegraph colleague @George_Osborne is returning to the best trade in the world. He started on our Peterborough diary. Â People started suggesting roles for other MPs Boris Johnson appointed editor of Rugby World magazine. pic.twitter.com/ddgJ2ZHPnb Â This is our favourite idea ANDREA LEADSOM FOR EDITOR OF VOGUE Â Jeremy Corbyn was not amused It's taking multitasking to an extreme level - what a joke https://t.co/m4a6GWwVnJ Â But Sadiq Khan sent a polite congratulations tweet Congratulations to @George_Osborne - the new editor of the @EveningStandard . Covering the world's greatest city #LondonIsOpen Â Many are shocked Thursday: Noel Fielding named host of GBBO Fri: George Osborne new editor of Evening Standard Sat: Sonic the Hedgehog becomes Labour leader me rn pic.twitter.com/ZeVFIzI657 George Osborne editing the Standard, Noel Fielding on Bake Off. Now I regret not applying to be the Astronomer Royal. But he's entered the offices and given a speech Hurricane George hits the Evening Standard. pic.twitter.com/65MVdGPRya THERE HE IS #GeorgeOsborne  pic.twitter.com/h5SQ9NKJ21 George Osborne already holding court in the newsroom pic.twitter.com/OVuzklEU57 George Osborne reportedly said: "I will need ur help to keep the ES good because despite running a country I've never run a newspaper" Â And we can always rely on some MPs to tell it how it is Everyone in my office has a "WTF" expression on their face about the George Osborne news. 1/2 Want to make it clear that I have not taken job as Editor of Men's Fitness magazine. What about John MacDonnell for Good Housekeeping? I'm thinking more chief exec channel 4 ðŸ˜ƒ https://t.co/BwDsIqxsOb Pleased to announce I've been appointed next leader of the Labour Party. Â

Many were shocked by the news that former Chancellor George Osborne is to take yet another job - editing the Evening Standard.

Of course, there were many jokes made on social media - though not by Jeremy Corbyn, who was scandalised.

Former Labour leader Ed Miliband joined in on the fun, claiming to have been made editor of Heat magazine.

Although some worry about how much time he will be able to spend on his other jobs, and how he will serve his constituents while doing this important job, most were able to make light of the situation.

Here is the best of the social media reaction.

Is this how he will enter his new office?