White officer seeking to throw out fatal shooting video
White officer seeking to throw out fatal shooting video
Shares                A white former South Carolina police officer wants a judge to throw out the key piece of evidence against him in the 2015 shooting death of an unarmed black motorist: a bystander's cellphone video of the killing that was viewed millions of times. That's one of the things Michael Slager will be seeking to do when he's in court Friday for a hearing ahead of his federal civil rights trial in the death of Walter Scott . Prosecutors are looking to stop defense lawyers from mentioning police officers who die in the line of duty or suggesting jurors can send a message about the treatment of police through a not-guilty verdict. Slager's civil rights trial is scheduled for May. He faces murder charges in state court, where his first trial ended in a hung jury. Shares                  White officer seeking to throw out fatal shooting video   Meeting Charles Manson in prison made 'hair on the back of my neck' stand up   US, Asia-Pacific allies rolling out F-35 stealth fighter   Syria fires missiles at Israeli jets following airstrikes   'Lot of sparks falling down' as fire engulfs apartments   U.S. officials deny airstrike on al-Qaeda targeted mosque   McDonald's confirms Twitter account hacked   GOP health care bill narrowly clears a committee despite conservative opposition   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Professor describes comedy of kids crashing BBC interview   Centenarian who danced with Obama celebrates 108th birthday with Harlem Globetrotters, schoolchildren   Superintendent announces school snow day in music video   Celebrate Pi Day with these deals   New Zealand police fatally shoot airport security dog   French school shooting: 4 shot, 10 hurt, student arrested   Detroit suspect attacked officers 'unprovoked' with apparent intention to kill: Police   Reporter describes up-close encounter with Mount Etna eruption   Ireland's leader pushes Trump on Irish in US illegally   Grammys organization: Trump's proposal to cut NEA 'shortsighted and alarming'   Republicans dismiss Trump's first budget blueprint   Families face reality of possible budget cuts killing programs they use   Airport security officer hailed a hero for thwarting man's apparent suicide attempt   PT boat from WWII rides old test course 'like a thoroughbred'   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   10-year-old boy dies after being trapped in snow pile from late-winter storm   Russian spy ship returns to East Coast of US   Prince's ex-wife opens up about 1996 death of couple's baby   Demi Lovato on 5 years sober: 'It's been quite the journey'

A white former South Carolina police officer wants a judge to throw out the key piece of evidence against him in the 2015 shooting death of an unarmed black motorist: a bystander's cellphone video of the killing that was viewed millions of times.

That's one of the things Michael Slager will be seeking to do when he's in court Friday for a hearing ahead of his federal civil rights trial in the death of Walter Scott.

Prosecutors are looking to stop defense lawyers from mentioning police officers who die in the line of duty or suggesting jurors can send a message about the treatment of police through a not-guilty verdict.

Slager's civil rights trial is scheduled for May. He faces murder charges in state court, where his first trial ended in a hung jury.