An Inside View From Nine Months On The Campaign Trail With President Trump
An Inside View From Nine Months On The Campaign Trail With President Trump
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Antoine Gara       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. NEW YORK, NY - JANUARY 13: Anthony Scaramucci, (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images) Can President Donald Trump deliver on his promises of tax reform? Was tackling Obamacare and the immensely complicated U.S. healthcare system a strategic blunder by the White House? And what the heck is going on with Trump's Twitter account? These were the questions America's top financial advisors, who collectively manage over $1 trillion in assets for millionaires and billionaires, rained on Anthony Scaramucci, the founder of Skybridge Capital and a focal point of Trump's finance and transition team. At Forbes and Shook Research's inaugural Top Advisors Summit in Las Vegas, Scaramucci offered a sweeping inside account of his nine months on the campaign trail with Trump and why it means the President is on track to deliver on his bold promises. "The Twitter thing is not for people this room," Scaramucci told the Forbes audience of hundreds of wealth management rainmakers. "The Twitter thing is for parts of Ohio, parts of Michigan, parts of Pennsylvania. The Twitter thing is for the disaffected man and woman that lives in our society who has had their real income fall 9.4% [since the early 2000s] and is struggling to make tuition payments for their children. The Twitter thing is sticking a finger in the eye of the cultural, intellectual and financial elites." Trump's Twitter account reveals why he swept into the White House, Scaramucci said, and it isn't reason to lose confidence that growth-creating tax reform, infrastructure spending, and a healthcare solution are all in the works. At the outset of the 2016 election, Scaramucci was a supporter of Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker's failed bid for the presidency. Then he was on Jeb Bush's team, but Scaramucci vowed to support Trump if both candidates bowed out. In February 2016, after the South Carolina Republican primary, Scaramucci joined Trump's campaign and then spent the better part of a year traveling the country, learning why support for the billionaire real estate mogul was bubbling over. In Albuquerque, New Mexico Scaramucci said got a sense of the economic disaffection behind Trump's rise in the polls. It was not "white nationalism, no hate, no racism. None of that nonsense, but middle class economic desperation,” Scaramucci said. Many of the supporters he met were simply missing out on the American Dream. “I am not blaming anybody on that, this is not a political discussion, it is an observation of what is going on in our society. So we thought he was going to win,” Scaramucci said. “Then we got the Access Hollywood tape and we all thought he was going to lose,” he added. A few days before the election, Trump made a surprise midnight visit to Macomb County, Michigan where Scaramucci said the thousands of supporters lining up by Trump’s plane restored his hope of a victory. On Election Day, at a meeting at Fox News, Scaramucci said he was told exit polls showed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton winning in a landslide; it was going to be an early night. Scaramucci relayed the disappointing news to Trump, who shrugged it off and said if that happened he’d give a short concession speech and head off to his seaside resort in Scotland to play golf. As the vote began to come in and Florida tilted towards Trump there began to be a path to victory; Scaramucci described a mad-dash to create a speech to calm the country down, as overnight markets cratered. The rest is history. Markets are rallying on optimism of tax reform, but every new day brings another flurry of headlines stemming from Trump's Twitter account. Yet another once-unthinkable flare up occurred on Friday after the President accused British of spying on Trump Tower. So why should America’s top wealth advisors look the other way? “Trump’s move was to come right over the top of the mainstream media and present himself to the American public and to reach those people I met in Albuquerque and Macomb County Michigan,” Scaramucci said, before describing the policy thinking inside the White House. The repeal of Obamacare came early - and before tax reform or infrastructure - because Trump is worried the healthcare system will implode. “Obamacare is going to implode on itself and it is going to cause a national cataclysm,” Scaramucci said. “I think you should wait for the second and third iteration of this thing before it is finally implemented. What you will find is the President is a very common sense person and I think the plan is going to be very comprehensive. It is going to do what he said, which is to protect more people at a lower cost because there will be more market-based incentives and forces in the plan to help.” And what about tax reform? “You can be assured that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, National Economic Council director Gary Cohn and Deputy Secretary of Treasury Jim Donovan are working on the tax plan and are hoping to get the tax plan in place and voted on before the August recess.” In front of biggest brand names in financial advice Scaramucci had a parting thought to offer about the Department of Labor’s so-called fiduciary rule. The now delayed regulation seeks to add a higher standard to financial advice, but critics say will restrict choices for investors and retirees. Scaramucci, who recently agreed to sell his hedge fund of fund firm Skybridge Capital in order to take a role in the Trump administration, said he will be steadfast in fighting the rule. “The policy is designed to limit the buffet table for your investors or your IRAs. That is very bad for investors or end users,” Scaramucci said. “Rest assured, even though the Wall Street Journal wrote my obituary, I will be doing something in the Trump administration and when I get there we are going to put an end to that DoL rule.” Forbes's Top 200 Wealth Advisors The Inside Advice From The Pros Advising Millionaires And Billionaires Special Report: The Top 100 Wealth Advisors America's Top 200 Women Financial Advisors Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Can President Donald Trump deliver on his promises of tax reform? Was tackling Obamacare and the immensely complicated U.S. healthcare system a strategic blunder by the White House? And what the heck is going on with Trump's Twitter account?

These were the questions America's top financial advisors, who collectively manage over $1 trillion in assets for millionaires and billionaires, rained on Anthony Scaramucci, the founder of Skybridge Capital and a focal point of Trump's finance and transition team. At Forbes and Shook Research's inaugural Top Advisors Summit in Las Vegas, Scaramucci offered a sweeping inside account of his nine months on the campaign trail with Trump and why it means the President is on track to deliver on his bold promises.

"The Twitter thing is not for people this room," Scaramucci told the Forbes audience of hundreds of wealth management rainmakers. "The Twitter thing is for parts of Ohio, parts of Michigan, parts of Pennsylvania. The Twitter thing is for the disaffected man and woman that lives in our society who has had their real income fall 9.4% [since the early 2000s] and is struggling to make tuition payments for their children. The Twitter thing is sticking a finger in the eye of the cultural, intellectual and financial elites."

Trump's Twitter account reveals why he swept into the White House, Scaramucci said, and it isn't reason to lose confidence that growth-creating tax reform, infrastructure spending, and a healthcare solution are all in the works.

At the outset of the 2016 election, Scaramucci was a supporter of Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker's failed bid for the presidency. Then he was on Jeb Bush's team, but Scaramucci vowed to support Trump if both candidates bowed out. In February 2016, after the South Carolina Republican primary, Scaramucci joined Trump's campaign and then spent the better part of a year traveling the country, learning why support for the billionaire real estate mogul was bubbling over.

In Albuquerque, New Mexico Scaramucci said got a sense of the economic disaffection behind Trump's rise in the polls. It was not "white nationalism, no hate, no racism. None of that nonsense, but middle class economic desperation,” Scaramucci said. Many of the supporters he met were simply missing out on the American Dream.

“I am not blaming anybody on that, this is not a political discussion, it is an observation of what is going on in our society. So we thought he was going to win,” Scaramucci said. “Then we got the Access Hollywood tape and we all thought he was going to lose,” he added. A few days before the election, Trump made a surprise midnight visit to Macomb County, Michigan where Scaramucci said the thousands of supporters lining up by Trump’s plane restored his hope of a victory.

On Election Day, at a meeting at Fox News, Scaramucci said he was told exit polls showed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton winning in a landslide; it was going to be an early night. Scaramucci relayed the disappointing news to Trump, who shrugged it off and said if that happened he’d give a short concession speech and head off to his seaside resort in Scotland to play golf.

As the vote began to come in and Florida tilted towards Trump there began to be a path to victory; Scaramucci described a mad-dash to create a speech to calm the country down, as overnight markets cratered. The rest is history. Markets are rallying on optimism of tax reform, but every new day brings another flurry of headlines stemming from Trump's Twitter account. Yet another once-unthinkable flare up occurred on Friday after the President accused British of spying on Trump Tower.

So why should America’s top wealth advisors look the other way? “Trump’s move was to come right over the top of the mainstream media and present himself to the American public and to reach those people I met in Albuquerque and Macomb County Michigan,” Scaramucci said, before describing the policy thinking inside the White House.

The repeal of Obamacare came early - and before tax reform or infrastructure - because Trump is worried the healthcare system will implode. “Obamacare is going to implode on itself and it is going to cause a national cataclysm,” Scaramucci said. “I think you should wait for the second and third iteration of this thing before it is finally implemented. What you will find is the President is a very common sense person and I think the plan is going to be very comprehensive. It is going to do what he said, which is to protect more people at a lower cost because there will be more market-based incentives and forces in the plan to help.”

And what about tax reform? “You can be assured that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, National Economic Council director Gary Cohn and Deputy Secretary of Treasury Jim Donovan are working on the tax plan and are hoping to get the tax plan in place and voted on before the August recess.”

In front of biggest brand names in financial advice Scaramucci had a parting thought to offer about the Department of Labor’s so-called fiduciary rule. The now delayed regulation seeks to add a higher standard to financial advice, but critics say will restrict choices for investors and retirees. Scaramucci, who recently agreed to sell his hedge fund of fund firm Skybridge Capital in order to take a role in the Trump administration, said he will be steadfast in fighting the rule.

“The policy is designed to limit the buffet table for your investors or your IRAs. That is very bad for investors or end users,” Scaramucci said. “Rest assured, even though the Wall Street Journal wrote my obituary, I will be doing something in the Trump administration and when I get there we are going to put an end to that DoL rule.”

Read More Of Forbes' Coverage Of America's Top Weath Advisors

Forbes's Top 200 Wealth Advisors

The Inside Advice From The Pros Advising Millionaires And Billionaires

Special Report: The Top 100 Wealth Advisors

America's Top 200 Women Financial Advisors

Legend Joel Greenblatt: Here's Gotham's Newest And Greatest Bet