Report: Maddow’s Trump Tax Scoop Sparks Battle Between NBC, MSNBC Bosses
Report: Maddow’s Trump Tax Scoop Sparks Battle Between NBC, MSNBC Bosses - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Chief news executives at MSNBC and its parent company NBC reportedly went to war this week over Rachel Maddow’s much-hyped big tease of “ Trump’s tax returns. “ The alleged behind-the-scenes feud was spurred by Maddow’s decision to go live with her “scoop” while leaving higher-ups at NBC in the dark, Page Six reports . FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “[MSNBC] announced it on Twitter, and [NBC] found out when [the general public] did,” a source reportedly said. “[MSNBC president] Phil Griffin was trying to undermine [NBC News president] Noah Oppenheim,” the source reportedly added. “There was never a conversation. They overplayed their hand in a huge way.” While an NBC representative said there’s no beef between the network heads, MSNBC’s Griffin made a not-so-subtle statement of superiority as it relates to how Oppenheim got started at NBC. “They’ve been friends for 20 years — ever since Phil hired Noah straight out of college to work on ,” the NBC rep said. “They’re super tight.” Despite the massive buildup , Maddow’s report was one long-winded conspiracy theory-filled presentation that ultimately regurgitated what the Trump White House had already revealed — that the President paid the IRS $38 million in taxes in 2005.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Chief news executives at MSNBC and its parent company NBC reportedly went to war this week over Rachel Maddow’s much-hyped big tease of “Trump’s tax returns.“

The alleged behind-the-scenes feud was spurred by Maddow’s decision to go live with her “scoop” while leaving higher-ups at NBC in the dark, Page Six reports.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

“[MSNBC] announced it on Twitter, and [NBC] found out when [the general public] did,” a source reportedly said.

“[MSNBC president] Phil Griffin was trying to undermine [NBC News president] Noah Oppenheim,” the source reportedly added. “There was never a conversation. They overplayed their hand in a huge way.”

While an NBC representative said there’s no beef between the network heads, MSNBC’s Griffin made a not-so-subtle statement of superiority as it relates to how Oppenheim got started at NBC.

“They’ve been friends for 20 years — ever since Phil hired Noah straight out of college to work on Hardball,” the NBC rep said. “They’re super tight.”

Despite the massive buildup, Maddow’s report was one long-winded conspiracy theory-filled presentation that ultimately regurgitated what the Trump White House had already revealed — that the President paid the IRS $38 million in taxes in 2005.

Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson