Birdman Addresses Rick Ross Diss Track: 'I Don't Get Caught Up in Hoe Sh*t'
Birdman Addresses Rick Ross Diss Track: 'I Don't Get Caught Up in Hoe Sh*t'
Birdman has responded to Rick Ross ' "Idols Become Rivals," a highlight from his new album that airs a lot of Cash Money grievances. Speaking with  on the day of 's release, Birdman said "numbers" are what's important, an apparent reference to multiple claims of royalty disputes. "I don't get caught up in hoe shit, man," Birdman told  Friday. "I just keep doing what I'm doing and keep pushing. I don't get caught up in that, I don't play like that. I'm a man and I stand my ground and I do my thing. Numbers don't lie, and that's all I give a fuck about: numbers, and puttin' them up." In a separate interview conducted prior to the track's release, Ross described "Idols Become Rivals" as a letter to a former idol in the game. "It's basically me writing a letter to someone in the game that I looked up to damn near the most and I hate what things have come to," Ross said. On Thursday, the track started popping up stateside thanks to 's international release. Ross shared a message to Wayne on Instagram, revealing it was hard to just "sit back and not speak" because the streets need Wayne's music: The Level of respect and Love that I have for WAYNE makes it hard to sit back and not speak on the situation.The streets need you.Being a Boss means having the courage to say the things everybody thinking but scared to say.I can't wait for you to hear it.Midnight. #idolsbecomerivals A post shared by The Boss Rick Ross,Yung Renzel (@richforever) on Mar 16, 2017 at 9:57am PDT Wayne quickly responded, telling Ross the message had given him motivation: dam big bro that msg hit me in the heart and put the motivation on automatik start. I needed that. 1 boss 2 another pic.twitter.com/3AIaHMuAmn is available now.

Birdman has responded to Rick Ross' "Idols Become Rivals," a highlight from his new album Rather You Than Me that airs a lot of Cash Money grievances. Speaking with Billboard on the day of Rather You Than Me's release, Birdman said "numbers" are what's important, an apparent reference to multiple claims of royalty disputes.

"I don't get caught up in hoe shit, man," Birdman told Billboard Friday. "I just keep doing what I'm doing and keep pushing. I don't get caught up in that, I don't play like that. I'm a man and I stand my ground and I do my thing. Numbers don't lie, and that's all I give a fuck about: numbers, and puttin' them up."

In a separate Billboard interview conducted prior to the track's release, Ross described "Idols Become Rivals" as a letter to a former idol in the game. "It's basically me writing a letter to someone in the game that I looked up to damn near the most and I hate what things have come to," Ross said. On Thursday, the track started popping up stateside thanks to Rather You Than Me's international release. Ross shared a message to Wayne on Instagram, revealing it was hard to just "sit back and not speak" because the streets need Wayne's music:

The Level of respect and Love that I have for WAYNE makes it hard to sit back and not speak on the situation.The streets need you.Being a Boss means having the courage to say the things everybody thinking but scared to say.I can't wait for you to hear it.Midnight. #idolsbecomerivals A post shared by The Boss Rick Ross,Yung Renzel (@richforever) on Mar 16, 2017 at 9:57am PDT

Wayne quickly responded, telling Ross the message had given him motivation:

dam big bro that msg hit me in the heart and put the motivation on automatik start. I needed that. 1 boss 2 another pic.twitter.com/3AIaHMuAmn — Lil Wayne WEEZY F (@LilTunechi) March 16, 2017

Rather You Than Me is available now.