Airbnb guests throw party at house leaving faeces on floor
Airbnb guests trash home with party leaving faeces on the floor


A woman who rented out her home on a flat-sharing website was horrified to find her property completely wrecked overnight by a group of unruly guests.

Li Jingyi, a host on Airbnb for two years, let out her three-bedroom apartment in east China's Zhejiang province to 12 guests via the rental platform earlier this month.

However when she returned to the property a day later, she found it completely covered in rubbish, a sticky floor and even faeces in the bedroom.

‹ Slide me › Before and after: Ms Li's rented her three-bedroom house to a group of 12 guests

Ms Li said the guests agreed to follow the house rules but later completely trashed the house

Ms Li, 30, came to know Airbnb after studying in Indiana, United States, three years ago.

An avid traveller herself, she quickly fell in love with the peer-to-peer rental culture and has used it to find accommodation while visiting Europe.

Ms Li, pictured, has decided to take down the listing from Airbnb

However, the mother-of-one was horrified after the 1,453-square-foot flat she had rented out was left trashed.

The shocked host explained the incident to Mailonline.

She said on February 20 she received a booking from a female guest, named Zhu Lin, on Airbnb.

Ms Zhu booked the property for one night from March 3.

After Ms Zhu's booking was confirmed, the guest suddenly changed the number of guests from one to six, then again from six to 12.

Concerned about the possible noise complaints from neighbours, Ms Li contacted Airbnb wishing to cancel Ms Zhu's booking.

However, after Airbnb explained the fees that she would incur by cancelling and she decided to go ahead with the booking.

Ms Li said before Ms Zhu checked in, she had sent them a house manual, which the guests agreed to. Ms Zhu apparently claimed that she had invited guests over 'for dinner'.

But to Ms Li's surprise, her cosy home was destroyed in just one night in what turned out to be a wild, alcohol-fuelled birthday party.

It took the woman one day to get rid of all the rubbish and clean her rooms.

Pictures provided by the host showed that her living room had been filled with food waste, beer bottles, cards and cigarette butts.

One picture showed the wall had been pinned and the other showed animal faeces on the floor of the bedroom.

Ms Zhu admitted in '1818 huangjinyan', a local television programme, that her friends had come over to celebrate birthday for her.

She said she had warned her friends not to smoke, drink or bring pets but her guests went out of control.

The guests held an alcohol-fuelled party. They left all waste behind them and pinned the wall

‹ Slide me › Ms Li's living room was littered with beer bottles, cards, food waste and cigarette butts

Airbnb spokesperson said they have removed the guest from the renting platform

Ms Li immediately contacted Airbnb for a compensation of 2,000 yuan (£238), including 1,000 yuan (£119) of prepaid deposit, repairing fee and cleaning fee.

She told MailOnline that Airbnb had agreed to pay for the cleaning fee and repairs as long as she provides receipts.

An Airbnb spokesman has confirmed the incident to Mailonline. The company replied in a statement:

'We have zero tolerance for this type of behaviour and the guest has been removed from our platform.

'We were deeply concerned to learn about this incident and we've been working with the host to offer our assistance through our host guarantee.'

Ms Zhu, the guest, claimed she hadn't expected her friends to bring alcohols and pets

Ms Li travelled to places around the world using Airbnb and inspired her to rent her house out

Both Ms Li and Airbnb confirmed to Mailonline that the guest, Ms Zhu, had been charged money for the damage. Ms Li said the amount she had received is 1,002 yuan (£117).

Airbnb also said the company is working with Ms Li to claim reimbursements through the host guarantee policy which is said to cover damage up to £600,000.

The website has blocked Ms Zhu's account.

Ms Li wrote on her Weibo account that the incident had made her 'lose trust in Airbnb' and that she had decided to take down her listing.

Looking to the future, Ms Li has no plans to put her flat on any other similar platforms and will see if Airbnb improves their guarantee policy and trust credit system.