2017 NCAA tournament -- Louisville Cardinals player thought TV reporter was stealing plays
Pitino says reporter mistaken for sideline spy
Pitino says reporter mistaken for sideline spy Your Friday best! USC does it again, Lamar takes in Rhode Island win Court doc: Kansas' Jackson threatened woman College basketball's coaching carousel: Who's in, who's out? ESPN picks: No consensus on a champion Students to get $1 million in steak dinners if NKU upsets Kentucky Reversal of progress for black male athletes Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers college basketball Joined ESPN.com in 2011 Graduate of Minnesota State University, Mankato Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment INDIANAPOLIS -- Louisville coach Rick Pitino said one of his players mistakenly thought a CBS sideline reporter was stealing plays Friday for Jacksonville State when she was near their huddle in the Cardinals' NCAA tournament win. "This is a very inexperienced team," Pitino told reporters after the 78-63 victory at Bankers Life Fieldhouse. "We're down two scholarships. Our backcourt is a little thin. Show you how inexperienced we are, one of my players said, 'There's a lady in the huddle stealing our plays.' It's Tracy Wolfson." CBS' Wolfson said via Twitter she found Pitino's assertion humorous, though the coach was not joking, according to a Louisville spokesman. Yes. That was funny! Appreciate coach allowing the access though https://t.co/pu876Kk4OL — Tracy Wolfson (@tracywolfson) March 17, 2017 "They thought she was giving it to the other team," Pitino said. "I told [sophomore guard Donovan Mitchell ], she's not doing that -- no, it wasn't him." The longtime coach wasn't laughing about his next game. Pitino spoke highly of Michigan, Louisville's opponent in the Midwest Regional's second round on Sunday. He called the Wolverines, who shot 55 percent from the 3-point line in their win over Oklahoma State on Friday, "the Golden State Warriors ." "We know what we're in for," said Pitino, who added he was courtside when his son Richard Pitino's Minnesota squad played Michigan earlier this year. "It will be the toughest second-round matchup I've had since I've been in this business. They're a great basketball team." On Friday, the second-seeded Cardinals took full advantage of their opportunities, outscoring the Gamecocks 44-14 in the paint, 24-3 on second-chance points and 11-0 on fast-break points to pull away in this first-round game. Louisville, which sat out last season's tourney because of a school-imposed postseason ban for alleged recruiting violations, gave up the first eight points and trailed for the first 13 minutes before rallying. Jacksonville State cut the deficit to 10 midway through the second half, then got within 61-52 with 6:53 to go before running out of steam. "When they shoot 50 percent, go 10-for-19 from the 3 and you still win by 15, you have to take it," Pitino said. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

INDIANAPOLIS -- Louisville coach Rick Pitino said one of his players mistakenly thought a CBS sideline reporter was stealing plays Friday for Jacksonville State when she was near their huddle in the Cardinals' NCAA tournament win.

"This is a very inexperienced team," Pitino told reporters after the 78-63 victory at Bankers Life Fieldhouse. "We're down two scholarships. Our backcourt is a little thin. Show you how inexperienced we are, one of my players said, 'There's a lady in the huddle stealing our plays.' It's Tracy Wolfson."

CBS' Wolfson said via Twitter she found Pitino's assertion humorous, though the coach was not joking, according to a Louisville spokesman.

Yes. That was funny! Appreciate coach allowing the access though https://t.co/pu876Kk4OL — Tracy Wolfson (@tracywolfson) March 17, 2017

"They thought she was giving it to the other team," Pitino said. "I told [sophomore guard Donovan Mitchell], she's not doing that -- no, it wasn't him."

The longtime coach wasn't laughing about his next game. Pitino spoke highly of Michigan, Louisville's opponent in the Midwest Regional's second round on Sunday. He called the Wolverines, who shot 55 percent from the 3-point line in their win over Oklahoma State on Friday, "the Golden State Warriors."

"We know what we're in for," said Pitino, who added he was courtside when his son Richard Pitino's Minnesota squad played Michigan earlier this year. "It will be the toughest second-round matchup I've had since I've been in this business. They're a great basketball team."

Editor's Picks Louisville has smooth opener in tourney return Mangok Mathiang scored 18 points and Deng Adel added 16 Friday to help second-seeded Louisville pull away from Jacksonville State 78-63 in the first round of the Midwest Regional.

On Friday, the second-seeded Cardinals took full advantage of their opportunities, outscoring the Gamecocks 44-14 in the paint, 24-3 on second-chance points and 11-0 on fast-break points to pull away in this first-round game.

Louisville, which sat out last season's tourney because of a school-imposed postseason ban for alleged recruiting violations, gave up the first eight points and trailed for the first 13 minutes before rallying.

Jacksonville State cut the deficit to 10 midway through the second half, then got within 61-52 with 6:53 to go before running out of steam.

"When they shoot 50 percent, go 10-for-19 from the 3 and you still win by 15, you have to take it," Pitino said.

Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.