Conor McGregor Discusses Floyd Mayweather Fight at Michael Conlan vs. Tim Ibarra
Conor McGregor Discusses Floyd Mayweather Fight at Michael Conlan vs. Tim Ibarra
Conor McGregor escalated his war of words with Floyd Mayweather while making an appearance at Madison Square Garden on Friday during the Michael Conlan-Tim Ibarra boxing match. ESPN's Dan Rafael also tweeted about an exchange he had with McGregor at MSG: OK @TheNotoriousMMA just got right in my face: "You're the boxing guy! Watch me take over boxing. I am #boxing." OK then. Good luck! There hasn't been an official agreement reached between McGregor and Mayweather, though it is being talked about more as a real possibility now than in the past. In a video posted to FightHype on March 11, Mayweather announced he would come out of retirement only to fight McGregor and wanted to get something signed for this summer, per 's Mike Coppinger : McGregor was issued a boxing license from the state of California last December, setting up the possibility for a match in Mayweather's discipline if the two sides and UFC are able to reach agreement for the superfight. McGregor is the UFC lightweight champion and became the first person to hold titles in two different weight classes at the same time when he defeated Eddie Alvarez at UFC 205. Mayweather hasn't fought since defeating Andre Berto to run his record to 49-0 in September 2015. One more win would allow him to break a tie with Rocky Marciano and earn 50 career wins without a loss. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC/Getty Images

Adam Wells Featured Columnist

Conor McGregor escalated his war of words with Floyd Mayweather while making an appearance at Madison Square Garden on Friday during the Michael Conlan-Tim Ibarra boxing match.

"I'm going to stop Floyd," McGregor said ringside, per Brian Campbell of CBS Sports. "You're all going to f---ing eat your words. The whole world is going to eat their words."

In a video taken by Fight Hub TV (warning: NSFW), McGregor says at the end he is boxing:

ESPN's Dan Rafael also tweeted about an exchange he had with McGregor at MSG:

There hasn't been an official agreement reached between McGregor and Mayweather, though it is being talked about more as a real possibility now than in the past.

In a video posted to FightHype on March 11, Mayweather announced he would come out of retirement only to fight McGregor and wanted to get something signed for this summer, per USA Today's Mike Coppinger:

I don't want to hear no more excuses about the money, about the UFC. Sign the paper with the UFC so you can fight me in June. Simple and plain, let's fight in June. You're the B side. I'm the A side. We're not here to cry about money. I'm tired of all this crying about money and saying you want to fight. You're blowing smoke up everyone's ass, if you want to fight, sign the paperwork.

UFC president Dana White said earlier this week during an appearance on Conan he believes the fight will happen:

McGregor was issued a boxing license from the state of California last December, setting up the possibility for a match in Mayweather's discipline if the two sides and UFC are able to reach agreement for the superfight.

McGregor is the UFC lightweight champion and became the first person to hold titles in two different weight classes at the same time when he defeated Eddie Alvarez at UFC 205.

Mayweather hasn't fought since defeating Andre Berto to run his record to 49-0 in September 2015. One more win would allow him to break a tie with Rocky Marciano and earn 50 career wins without a loss.