This Visual Test Will Determine If You’re An Optimist Or A Pessimist
This Visual Test Will Determine If You’re An Optimist Or A Pessimist
This Visual Test Will Determine If You’re An Optimist Or A Pessimist  You got:
								
								50% optimist and 50% pessimist  The glass isn’t always full for you, but it isn’t empty either! You tend to be positive about a lot of things, but there are times when your pessimistic side gets the best of you. That’s fine — you’re human, and it’s natural to change your mind.    You got:
								
								80% optimist and 20% pessimist  The glass is perpetually full for you! No matter what life throws your way you try your best to deal with it and move forward.    You got:
								
								30% optimist and 70% pessimist  Optimism may not be your strong suit, but that’s for good reason. Chances are you’ve learned over time that your realism has guided you to great success. Isn’t there some saying that the underdog typically comes out on top?    You got:
								
								45% optimist and 55% pessimist  You tend to be pessimistic but there’s often some optimism sprinkled in there. That doesn’t mean you’re a negative person, you just calculate your risk. While you may consider giving up on the first try, you always go back and try at least one more time.    You got:
								
								60% optimist and 40% pessmist  Optimism dominates your being but every so often you may get caught up in pessimism. That’s fine because literally everyone experiences some form of doubt. Regardless, you always try to see the positive. Keep strong!    You got:
								
								90% optimist and 10% pessimist  Full blown optimist. Of course every once in awhile you let your thoughts get the best of you, but you’re used to plowing through, and you always hope for the best.   SHARE YOUR RESULTS   This Visual Test Will Determine If You’re An Optimist...    7 Facts You Can Blurt Out During Awkward Silences This...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

You got: 50% optimist and 50% pessimist The glass isn’t always full for you, but it isn’t empty either! You tend to be positive about a lot of things, but there are times when your pessimistic side gets the best of you. That’s fine — you’re human, and it’s natural to change your mind.

You got: 80% optimist and 20% pessimist The glass is perpetually full for you! No matter what life throws your way you try your best to deal with it and move forward.

You got: 30% optimist and 70% pessimist Optimism may not be your strong suit, but that’s for good reason. Chances are you’ve learned over time that your realism has guided you to great success. Isn’t there some saying that the underdog typically comes out on top?

You got: 45% optimist and 55% pessimist You tend to be pessimistic but there’s often some optimism sprinkled in there. That doesn’t mean you’re a negative person, you just calculate your risk. While you may consider giving up on the first try, you always go back and try at least one more time.

You got: 60% optimist and 40% pessmist Optimism dominates your being but every so often you may get caught up in pessimism. That’s fine because literally everyone experiences some form of doubt. Regardless, you always try to see the positive. Keep strong!