Not Withdrawing Rs 2,000 Notes Says Government, Nizamuddin Clerics Missing In Pakistan And Other Must Reads
Not Withdrawing Rs 2,000 Notes Says Govt, Indian Clerics Missing In Pakistan + Other Must Reads
Not Withdrawing Rs 2,000 Notes Says Government, Nizamuddin Clerics Missing In Pakistan And Other Must Reads There is no proposal to withdraw the Rs 2,000 notes that were introduced post demonetisation, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley has clarified, amid rumors. "There is no proposal to withdraw the Rs 2,000 denomination banknote," the minister said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. Read more 1. India Tells Pakistan To Find Out Nizamuddin Dargah Sufis, Who Went Missing From Lahore A day after two Sufi clerics, including Syed Asif Ali Nizami the head priest of New Delhi's Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah went missing in Pakistan, the India has taken up the matter with the government in Islamabad. External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj has asked Pakistan for an update on both the Indian nationals. Read more 2. Newly Elected BJP MLA Wants To Rename Deoband And Call It Mahabharata Inspired 'Dev Vrand' Just days into his stunning election victory in Uttar Pradesh's Deoband, which was for years seen as a 'Muslim constituency', BJP MLA from Deoband, Brijesh Singh wants the city renamed. According to Singh the city should be called Dev Vrand, liking it to the Pandavas during their exile. Read more 3. ISIS Terrorists Vow To Intensify Attacks On India, Declare Plan To Target Taj Mahal The Islamic State terrorists have threatened to attack India with Mughal memorial Taj Mahal as their main target. A new poster issued by Ahwaal Ummat Media Center, a pro-ISIS media group on its Telegram channel shows Taj Mahal as the target. According to Site Intelligence group, the message was posted on Telegram on March 14. It shows Taj Mahal as "new target". Read more

There is no proposal to withdraw the Rs 2,000 notes that were introduced post demonetisation, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley has clarified, amid rumors.

"There is no proposal to withdraw the Rs 2,000 denomination banknote," the minister said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. Read more

1. India Tells Pakistan To Find Out Nizamuddin Dargah Sufis, Who Went Missing From Lahore

A day after two Sufi clerics, including Syed Asif Ali Nizami the head priest of New Delhi's Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah went missing in Pakistan, the India has taken up the matter with the government in Islamabad.

External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj has asked Pakistan for an update on both the Indian nationals. Read more

2. Newly Elected BJP MLA Wants To Rename Deoband And Call It Mahabharata Inspired 'Dev Vrand'

Just days into his stunning election victory in Uttar Pradesh's Deoband, which was for years seen as a 'Muslim constituency', BJP MLA from Deoband, Brijesh Singh wants the city renamed.

According to Singh the city should be called Dev Vrand, liking it to the Pandavas during their exile. Read more

3. ISIS Terrorists Vow To Intensify Attacks On India, Declare Plan To Target Taj Mahal

The Islamic State terrorists have threatened to attack India with Mughal memorial Taj Mahal as their main target. A new poster issued by Ahwaal Ummat Media Center, a pro-ISIS media group on its Telegram channel shows Taj Mahal as the target.

According to Site Intelligence group, the message was posted on Telegram on March 14. It shows Taj Mahal as "new target". Read more

Don't Miss 511 SHARES 22.7 K SHARES 16.5 K SHARES 20.7 K SHARES 13 K SHARES

4. 5-Year-Old Muslim Girl Wins Bhagavad Gita Recitation Contest In Odisha

A five-year-old Muslim girl in the coastal district of Kendrapara in Odisha topped the Bhagwad Gita recitation contest.

Firdaus topped the Gita recitation contest held on Wednesday by getting the better of senior competitors. Read more

5. Two Minor Girls Kidnapped And Gang Raped In Front Of Their Father In Moving Car In Gujarat

Police in Gujarat's Dahod have arrested five people in connection with the gang rape of two minor siblings. According to police, the sixth rapist is on the run and that seven others were also involved in the abduction of the girls.

The accused kidnapped the girls aged 13 and 15 along with their father from his shop in Bhutpagla village on Thursday, forced them into an SUV. Read more