Global carbon dioxide emissions steady for three years, raising hopes of a long-term trend downwards



Global carbon dioxide emissions steady for three years, raising hopes of a long-term trend downwards

Updated

A greener energy mix has helped keep energy-related carbon dioxide emissions flat in 2016 yet more needs to be done to avert a harmful rise in global temperatures, new data from the International Energy Agency (IEA) shows.

Energy sector emissions were unchanged from 2015 and 2014 even though the global economy grew by 3.1 per cent, the IEA estimated.

"These three years of flat emissions in a growing global economy signal an emerging trend and that is certainly a cause for optimism, even if it is too soon to say that global emissions have definitely peaked," IEA executive director Fatih Birol said in a statement.

The head of Australia's Climate Council, Amanda McKenzie, agreed it was a strong sign countries were able to have economic growth while reducing emissions.

"And that is starting to happen as we see new industries like renewable energy — solar and wind have declined in costs dramatically and now are really growing as new industries," she told the ABC.

"So that's a really critical element, that we're starting to see a decoupling of economic growth and carbon dioxide emissions."

Carbon dioxide emissions fell in the United States and China, the world's two largest energy users and emitters, and were stable in Europe.

This helped to offset increases in CO2 emissions in the rest of the world, the IEA said.

US emissions fell by 3 per cent to their lowest level since 1992, helped by higher use of shale gas and renewable energy displacing coal.

For the first time, the United States produced more electricity from natural gas than from coal last year.

Amanda McKenzie said the emission reductions were also a consequence of former US president Barack Obama's climate change policy.

Emissions in China fell by 1 per cent as coal demand declined despite its economy growing by 6.7 per cent.

China used more renewables, nuclear and gas in power generation and spurred a switch to gas from coal in the industrial and building sectors.

Still, the IEA said keeping emissions flat was not enough to prevent global temperatures from increasing by more than 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.

At the Paris climate conference in December 2015, 195 countries adopted a legally binding deal aimed at avoiding dangerous climate change by limiting global warming to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius.

Amanda McKenzie said nonetheless, the figures gave her hope.

"This is a huge global system that we're moving away from, fossil fuels to renewable energy, so it's not surprising that we see some lag between action and then emissions flatlining then hopefully going down.

"The Paris conference two years ago was really the culmination of most countries in the world making commitments to reduce emissions, move towards renewable energy.

"And it saw huge investment in renewables form China to the US to Europe, all over the world."

ABC/Reuters

Topics: environment, environmental-impact, climate-change, industry, environmentally-sustainable-business, australia

First posted