'Bee hotels' made from recycled TVs helping to attract native bees back to suburbs



'Bee hotels' made from recycled TVs helping to attract native bees back to suburbs

Posted

A Queensland woman has tuned in to a novel way of encouraging natives bees back into suburban areas.

Using retro televisions, Louise Cosgrove, from Jimboomba on the Gold Coast Hinterland, is building 'hotels' for Australian native bees.

Native bees are smaller than the well-known European honey bee. They are also stingless and do not produce honey.

Ms Cosgrove came up with the creative idea after her son-in-law left 100 recycled analog televisions at her home.

"It's quite an enjoyable process and I've always been a little bit arty and it's got to look right," Louise said.

"These particular TVs are very, very suitable because they have such great ventilation.

"They've got all the correct nesting materials … I want to do it right."

Ms Cosgrove spends hours foraging around her rural property to find wood and other natural materials to fill the televisions with.

Her son-in-law had already recycled the inner-tubes of most of the televisions, leaving Louise with plenty of room to arrange the wood, bamboo and bark in.

The hollows provide a place where the solitary native bees lay their eggs and raise their young.

"They are just such intriguing, absolutely beautiful, captivating little insects, they really are," Louise said.

Giving bees a helping hand

There are more than 2,000 species of native bees in Australia.

Bee Aware Brisbane's Dr Tobias Smith said native bees were often forgotten because most attention was paid to the European honey bee.

But urban sprawl has destroyed the habitats of native bees and they need protection.

"Native bees and other native pollinators do pollination in our ecosystems, so without them we wouldn't get the renewal in ecosystems, we wouldn't get plants making new seeds," Dr Smith said.

"By encouraging them back into the landscape, by making urban environments friendly to native bees, we're going to boost their populations and a little bit of that might leak out to agricultural areas and wild areas.

"They're a great asset that we've got here in Australia for the environment and for agriculture."

There are a number of ways residents can encourage more bees to come to their backyard.

Planting more flowers and avoiding use pesticides are the simplest ways.

Providing artificial habitat around the yard will offer native bees somewhere to nest.

"This can be as simple as drilling holes in wood, and things like leaf cutter bees will come and nest in them," Dr Smith said.

"Creating areas of bare soil where bees might dig down into it and putting out pieces of hollow bamboo."

Topics: invertebrates---insects-and-arachnids, jimboomba-4280