21 Things You’ll Understand If You Love People But Also Hate Them
21 Things You'll Understand If You Love People But Also Hate Them
You consider yourself to be a friendly person. You love going out with your friends, maybe you’d even describe yourself as a ~people person~. But sometimes, nothing pisses you off more than other people. It might not even be that you them, you’d just rather not be around them. And you find living in a city, or even just in a city, deeply frustrating. Nothing is more stressful than having your personal space invaded multiple times a day. You cancel plans 50% of the time, just because you can’t be bothered with socialising. And you’re always relieved to get home at the end of the day and finally have some alone time. But other times, you’re overwhelmed with how wonderful people can be. They do such cute and nice things!! You also accept that even though people are annoying, you still need to socialise sometimes. However it’s never too long before you get irritated by people again. Especially by certain, very small things. You actually prefer animals sometimes. And there are moments when you dream about living alone, in the middle of nowhere. But mostly if you’re feeling sick of people, you just resign yourself to your room for a day or two. Because there’s no wifi in the middle of nowhere. Until, of course, you are reminded of how lovely people can be. Sometimes your irritability is actually just a hormonal reaction. But most of the time, you can’t blame your annoyance on your hormones. You can, however, blame it on the stupidity of others. You’re amazed how you can love some people so much and yet be so irritated by them at the same time. Table for one, please. 

Ma'am, your family is right behind you. But that doesn’t mean you don’t appreciate your friends and family. how i feel when im surrounded by all the beautiful wonderful women i call my friends You love them even more than yourself, tbh.  when they love-hate people just as much as you.   Can You Guess The Common Phrases From The Riddles?    Just 27 Really Wholesome Celeb Encounter Stories That'll...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.