Racer Ashwin Sundar And His Wife Killed After Their BMW Catches Fire In Chennai
Racer Ashwin Sundar And His Wife Killed After Their BMW Catches Fire In Chennai
Racer Ashwin Sundar And His Wife Killed After Their BMW Catches Fire In Chennai Professional car racer Ashwin Sundar and his wife Nivedhitha were charred to death after their BMW car rammed a roadside car on the Santhome High Road in Chennai in the early hours of Saturday. Police said Sundar and his wife were trapped inside the car as they could not open the doors. The car caught fire, and the couple were charred to death Sundar was driving the car. Nivedhitha was a doctor working at a private hospital here. Passersby, who the vehicle on fire, alerted the Chennai city police control room, and a team of police personnel from the Adyar traffic investigation wing rushed to the spot. Adyar traffic investigation wing inspector of police Vanitha and her team broke open the car and recovered the bodies of the couple. The bodies were sent to the Government Royapettah Hospital for postmortem. Initially, police didn't identify the couple. Later, they identified them with the help of the vehicle registration number. Inquiries revealed that the couple lived in Alapakkam near Porur. They visited their friend's house at MRC Nagar in Raja Annamalaipuram. The accident happened when they were returning home.

Professional car racer Ashwin Sundar and his wife Nivedhitha were charred to death after their BMW car rammed a roadside car on the Santhome High Road in Chennai in the early hours of Saturday.

Police said Sundar and his wife were trapped inside the car as they could not open the doors. The car caught fire, and the couple were charred to death

Twitter/TOI

Sundar was driving the car. Nivedhitha was a doctor working at a private hospital here.

Passersby, who the vehicle on fire, alerted the Chennai city police control room, and a team of police personnel from the Adyar traffic investigation wing rushed to the spot.

Twitter

Adyar traffic investigation wing inspector of police Vanitha and her team broke open the car and recovered the bodies of the couple. The bodies were sent to the Government Royapettah Hospital for postmortem.

Initially, police didn't identify the couple. Later, they identified them with the help of the vehicle registration number. Inquiries revealed that the couple lived in Alapakkam near Porur. They visited their friend's house at MRC Nagar in Raja Annamalaipuram. The accident happened when they were returning home.