Debt Doesn't Have To Be A Dirty 4-Letter Word
Debt Doesn't Have To Be A Dirty 4-Letter Word
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  David Haber       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Like numbers, words can be tricky. But they don’t have to be. Remember the first time you laid eyes on a balance sheet or calculated your break-even point? Apart from the sheer number of lines to fill, there was the vocabulary to get used to and the logic to grasp. It was strange. It was daunting. You had to make a choice: walk away or figure it out. You chose to push through. You might not be doing financial projections in your sleep, but you’ve gotten the hang of checking your numbers. It’s not so scary anymore. In fact, it’s useful. The “monster” of accounting has given you more benefits than you can count. Debt’s a lot like that. Easily misunderstood. Highly valuable. A lot more businesses take out loans and lines of credit than you might think. In 2011, 43% of all companies nationwide received debt financing, . The numbers are even higher among new businesses. Between half and two-thirds of all young businesses need capital injections. If you’ve only been around for a couple of years, you don’t usually have an extra $100k in your budget for an important investment that will grow your business. So you’re left with two options: (getting loans from lenders like Bond Street and traditional banks) (selling pieces of ownership to friends, angels, venture capitalists, etc.) Guess which option is more popular? Two-thirds of young companies that look for financing go for debt ( SBA ). It’s safe to say that debt supports the sustenance and growth of thousands of small businesses. So why does the word leave a bad taste in some mouths? Debt has developed an ambivalent reputation for three main reasons. Many entrepreneurs have either struggled with or carefully avoided maxed-out credit cards, crippling student loans, and sketchy mortgages. Just the idea of taking out a small business loan, even for good reasons and with low risk, can feel ominous. Some small business owners simply don’t know much about debt financing. Others apply bad experiences with a traditional bank or predatory lender to all lenders. It’s hard to find sound sources of information on types of debt and when to use them. Just as stories of “unicorn” startups overshadow the success of companies valued at less than $100 million (i.e. the vast majority of successful companies), equity has become the sexier financing option. Let’s take a moment to think about the word . Its synonyms include and . “Angel investors” promise to whisk you up to business heaven (or Silicon Valley). “Venture capitalists” champion invention by taking risks on the underdog, whose destiny it is to grow from a garage office into a billion-dollar multinational company. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Like numbers, words can be tricky. But they don’t have to be.

Remember the first time you laid eyes on a balance sheet or calculated your break-even point? Apart from the sheer number of lines to fill, there was the vocabulary to get used to and the logic to grasp. It was strange. It was daunting. You had to make a choice: walk away or figure it out.

You chose to push through. You might not be doing financial projections in your sleep, but you’ve gotten the hang of checking your numbers. It’s not so scary anymore. In fact, it’s useful. The “monster” of accounting has given you more benefits than you can count.

Debt’s a lot like that. Easily misunderstood. Highly valuable.

Debt’s Secret Popularity

A lot more businesses take out loans and lines of credit than you might think. In 2011, 43% of all companies nationwide received debt financing, according to the Kauffman Firm Survey.

The numbers are even higher among new businesses. Between half and two-thirds of all young businesses need capital injections. If you’ve only been around for a couple of years, you don’t usually have an extra $100k in your budget for an important investment that will grow your business. So you’re left with two options:

Debt financing (getting loans from lenders like Bond Street and traditional banks) Equity financing (selling pieces of ownership to friends, angels, venture capitalists, etc.)

Guess which option is more popular? Two-thirds of young companies that look for financing go for debt (SBA).

How Debt Got a Bad Rap

It’s safe to say that debt supports the sustenance and growth of thousands of small businesses. So why does the word leave a bad taste in some mouths?

Debt has developed an ambivalent reputation for three main reasons.

“Debt” seems personal. Many entrepreneurs have either struggled with or carefully avoided maxed-out credit cards, crippling student loans, and sketchy mortgages. Just the idea of taking out a small business loan, even for good reasons and with low risk, can feel ominous. Good information is lacking. Some small business owners simply don’t know much about debt financing. Others apply bad experiences with a traditional bank or predatory lender to all lenders. It’s hard to find sound sources of information on types of debt and when to use them. Equity gets better PR. Just as stories of “unicorn” startups overshadow the success of companies valued at less than $100 million (i.e. the vast majority of successful companies), equity has become the sexier financing option.

Debt vs. Equity

Let’s take a moment to think about the word equity. Its synonyms include fairness and justice. “Angel investors” promise to whisk you up to business heaven (or Silicon Valley). “Venture capitalists” champion invention by taking risks on the underdog, whose destiny it is to grow from a garage office into a billion-dollar multinational company.