Comedian Artie Lange arrested over drug possession
Comedian Artie Lange arrested over drug possession
Shares                Comedian Artie Lange was arrested recently on drug possession charges outside his New Jersey home. Hoboken police spokesman Sgt. Edgardo Cruz tells to NJ Advance Media (http://bit.ly/2mEaW6G) that 49-year-old Lange was arrested on Sunday after allegedly being found with drugs in the parking garage of his building. Officers found cocaine, heroin and drug paraphernalia both on him and in his car. Lange has a history of drug addiction. He was recently featured on HBO's new comedy series "Crashing," which stars Peter Holmes and is produced Judd Apatow . He plays himself as a mentor to Holmes' character who is trying to make it as a stand-up comedian. On Friday he tweeted about the arrest, saying he's "doing great." ——— Information from: NJ.com, http://www.nj.com  Shares                  Comedian Artie Lange arrested over drug possession   How the live-action 'Beauty and the Beast' is different from the original   Prince William, Princess Kate visit Paris   William, Kate celebrate St. Patrick's Day   Louis-Dreyfus celebrating her son's NCAA win is all you need to see today   Everything you need to know about 'Iron Fist'   Amanda Seyfried secretly wed Thomas Sadoski   Why Dan Stevens says Emma Watson was 'terrified' of him while shooting 'Beauty and the Beast'   Suzanne Somers looks back on 40 years of 'Three's Company'   'Scandal' star opens up about battle with psoriasis   Maksim Chmerkovskiy reveals he had to take newborn son to emergency room   A timeline of Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping claims   North Korea, South China Sea on Tillerson agenda in Beijing   Accused White House fence jumper was on grounds for 16 minutes: Secret Service   Running for president? Some states want tax returns public   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space

Comedian Artie Lange was arrested recently on drug possession charges outside his New Jersey home.

Hoboken police spokesman Sgt. Edgardo Cruz tells to NJ Advance Media (http://bit.ly/2mEaW6G) that 49-year-old Lange was arrested on Sunday after allegedly being found with drugs in the parking garage of his building.

Officers found cocaine, heroin and drug paraphernalia both on him and in his car.

Lange has a history of drug addiction.

He was recently featured on HBO's new comedy series "Crashing," which stars Peter Holmes and is produced Judd Apatow. He plays himself as a mentor to Holmes' character who is trying to make it as a stand-up comedian.

On Friday he tweeted about the arrest, saying he's "doing great."

———

Information from: NJ.com, http://www.nj.com