Paris Orly Airport: Man Shot Dead After Seizing Soldier's Weapon
Man shot dead in Paris airport after seizing soldier's weapon: cops
PARIS — A man was shot dead in Paris Orly Airport after seizing a soldier's weapon and fleeing with it on Saturday morning, according to the French Interior Ministry. There were no other casualties, police said. At around 8:30 a.m. (3:30 a.m. ET) the suspect "removed a soldier's weapon, then sought refuge in an airport shop nearby before being shot by the security forces," Interior Ministry spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet told a local radio station. The potential attacker did not have time to exchange fire with soldiers or police and was "neutralized quickly," he added. Officials earlier said the man only tried to grab the weapon. A bomb squad was sweeping the airport's southern terminal on Saturday morning. Security officers who checked the suspect's body did not find an explosives belt or other weapons, according to the Interior Ministry. An official at the Paris Prosecutor's office told NBC News that anti-terror officers had opened an investigation into the incident at the airport, and an earlier one involving the same suspect in Garges-lès-Gonesse — a northern suburb of Paris. Intelligence services were involved with the investigation, added the source who spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to talk to the media. Thousands of people were being evacuated and flights redirected. "An evacuation is underway at the airport. Police are on site," a police spokesman told NBC News. The airport authority advised travelers to follow police advise at Orly, which is south of the French capital. #Orly  #airport On going special operations by the Police. Please follow their instructions (safety area) #fr  #en  https://t.co/bWKNccdy21 #Orly  #airport Air traffic suspended for Orly South & West terminal. Do not come to the airport. Ongoing Police operation #en "Do not cross the safety perimeter, follow instructions," France's National Police instructed via Twitter. Passengers described scenes of panic and chaos after the suspect grabbed a weapon from a soldier who was patrolling the area. A witness identified only as Dominique told BFM television that "soldiers took aim at the man, who in turn pointed the gun he had seized at the two soldiers." An unnamed witness told the television station that three soldiers were targeted, and tried to calm the man who seized the weapon. Then the witness said he heard two gunshots. Trios of heavily armed soldiers are a frequent sight in Paris which, like the rest of the country, has been under a state of emergency since a series of deadly terror attacks about a year-and-a-half ago. On Nov. 13, 2015, a group of ISIS-directed jihadis killed 130 people in coordinated strikes across Paris — an onslaught that shocked the country and sent ripples of fear across the world. On July 14, a truck plowed into pedestrians during Bastille Day celebrations in the seaside resort of Nice , killing 80. On Thursday, a letter bomb exploded at the central Paris offices of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) , injuring an assistant who opened it.

PARIS — A man was shot dead in Paris Orly Airport after seizing a soldier's weapon and fleeing with it on Saturday morning, according to the French Interior Ministry.

There were no other casualties, police said.

At around 8:30 a.m. (3:30 a.m. ET) the suspect "removed a soldier's weapon, then sought refuge in an airport shop nearby before being shot by the security forces," Interior Ministry spokesman Pierre-Henry Brandet told a local radio station.

French police secure Paris Orly Airport on Saturday after a man was shot by French security forces. CHRISTOPHE SIMON / AFP - Getty Images

The potential attacker did not have time to exchange fire with soldiers or police and was "neutralized quickly," he added.

Officials earlier said the man only tried to grab the weapon.

A bomb squad was sweeping the airport's southern terminal on Saturday morning. Security officers who checked the suspect's body did not find an explosives belt or other weapons, according to the Interior Ministry.

An official at the Paris Prosecutor's office told NBC News that anti-terror officers had opened an investigation into the incident at the airport, and an earlier one involving the same suspect in Garges-lès-Gonesse — a northern suburb of Paris. Intelligence services were involved with the investigation, added the source who spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to talk to the media.

Thousands of people were being evacuated and flights redirected.

"An evacuation is underway at the airport. Police are on site," a police spokesman told NBC News.

The airport authority advised travelers to follow police advise at Orly, which is south of the French capital.

#Orly #airport Air traffic suspended for Orly South & West terminal. Do not come to the airport. Ongoing Police operation #en — Paris Aéroport (@ParisAeroport) March 18, 2017

"Do not cross the safety perimeter, follow instructions," France's National Police instructed via Twitter.

Passengers described scenes of panic and chaos after the suspect grabbed a weapon from a soldier who was patrolling the area.

A witness identified only as Dominique told BFM television that "soldiers took aim at the man, who in turn pointed the gun he had seized at the two soldiers."

An unnamed witness told the television station that three soldiers were targeted, and tried to calm the man who seized the weapon. Then the witness said he heard two gunshots.

Armed police move into position at Orly airport on Saturday. CHRISTOPHE PETIT TESSON / EPA

Trios of heavily armed soldiers are a frequent sight in Paris which, like the rest of the country, has been under a state of emergency since a series of deadly terror attacks about a year-and-a-half ago.

On Nov. 13, 2015, a group of ISIS-directed jihadis killed 130 people in coordinated strikes across Paris — an onslaught that shocked the country and sent ripples of fear across the world. On July 14, a truck plowed into pedestrians during Bastille Day celebrations in the seaside resort of Nice, killing 80.

On Thursday, a letter bomb exploded at the central Paris offices of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF), injuring an assistant who opened it.

Please check back for details on this breaking news story.