The intriguing conspiracy theory why the White House would only leak Trump's 2005 taxes
The intriguing conspiracy theory why the White House would only leak Trump's 2005 taxes
BREAKING: We've got Trump tax returns. Tonight, 9pm ET. MSNBC.  (Seriously). What we've got is from 2005... the President's 1040 form... details to come tonight 9PM ET, MSNBC.  However, just as the show was going on air, the White House released a statement confirming that the show's data was accurate . Ultimately, the reveal did little to prove anything either way, since it was only the return for one year, over a decade ago, and Trump did pay $38 million in taxes for that 12 months. Now however, there is a growing theory that the White House themselves were behind the leak. Obviously, by leaking a return where everything is all above board would make Trump look good, without making them look like they caved to public pressure. Just so we're all on the same page pic.twitter.com/tdKfcTMzY2  User Kae Digital on Twitter explains: US naturalization checklist requires the last five years of tax returns OR the last three years ore turns if married to an American citizen – 2003 single, 2004 single, 2005 joint with Donald Trump. They then go on to allege: That is why the Trump administration leaked the 1040 form from 2005 – it was the only year that he was forced to play by the rules                     Keep scrolling for next article

On Tuesday, MSNBC’s Rachael Maddow announced she’d obtained some of Donald Trump’s tax returns and was going to reveal their contents on her show.

BREAKING: We've got Trump tax returns. Tonight, 9pm ET. MSNBC.



(Seriously). — Rachel Maddow MSNBC (@maddow) March 14, 2017 What we've got is from 2005... the President's 1040 form... details to come tonight 9PM ET, MSNBC. — Rachel Maddow MSNBC (@maddow) March 15, 2017

However, just as the show was going on air, the White House released a statement confirming that the show's data was accurate.

Ultimately, the reveal did little to prove anything either way, since it was only the return for one year, over a decade ago, and Trump did pay $38 million in taxes for that 12 months.

Now however, there is a growing theory that the White House themselves were behind the leak.

Obviously, by leaking a return where everything is all above board would make Trump look good, without making them look like they caved to public pressure.

But the theory goes deeper - and it involves Melania.

Just so we're all on the same page pic.twitter.com/tdKfcTMzY2 — Kae Digital (@TwittsMcGee) March 15, 2017

User Kae Digital on Twitter explains:

US naturalization checklist requires the last five years of tax returns OR the last three years ore turns if married to an American citizen – 2003 single, 2004 single, 2005 joint with Donald Trump.

They then go on to allege:

That is why the Trump administration leaked the 1040 form from 2005 – it was the only year that he was forced to play by the rules

More: This might be the scariest video of Donald Trump yet

More: Donald Trump's Irish proverb isn't a proverb. Or Irish