Don Dale female detainees given morning-after pill following alleged sex during riot



Don Dale female detainees given morning-after pill following alleged sex during riot

Updated

Three girls at Darwin's Don Dale Youth Detention Centre were given the morning-after contraceptive pill after allegedly having sex in a pool with teenage boys following a riot in 2011, a royal commission has been told.

One of the boys, who was 17 at the time, was referred to police after it was suspected he had sex with a girl aged under 16, although it is unclear if he was ever charged.

A confidential ministerial briefing from 2011 that detailed the incident that occurred in the early hours of December 26 that year was tendered to the Royal Commission into the Protection and Detention of Children in the Northern Territory on Friday.

The royal commission has been investigating the conditions in NT juvenile detention centres and the treatment of detainees.

The briefing to the then-minister of corrections Gerry McCarthy said the incident began after fire alarms went off three times, possibly because a detainee activated them with a cigarette lighter.

The last time the alarm sounded was at 1:20am on Boxing Day.

Sex alleged took place during riot

Each time the fire alarms were activated both male and female detainees were evacuated to an assembly point at a basketball court.

"On the third evacuation some of the detainees rioted, throwing missiles and causing damage to a demountable," the document read.

"Some of the detainees proceeded to jump into the pool, which is located next to the basketball court.

"While the female and male detainees were in the pool it is alleged that sexual activity may have taken place."

It said three girls and two boys were identified as having been involved in the pool incident.

Facility not built to house male and female detainees

The three girls consented to taking the morning-after pill, which reduces the risk of pregnancy following unprotected sex, the document read.

Another document tendered to the royal commission by Mr McCarthy showed concerns had been raised with him about the way the way girls were housed at a detention centre in Alice Springs.

"The centre is not suitable for female detainees," the letter to Mr McCarthy from the Youth Justice Advisory Committee said.

A response from Mr McCarthy later said the facility was not purpose-built to house male and female detainees.

"In the short term the Northern Territory Correctional Services does not have the capacity to build new infrastructure," Mr McCarthy said.

Topics: royal-commissions, youth, law-crime-and-justice, nt, darwin-0800, alice-springs-0870

First posted