J.C. Penney lists the 138 stores it is planning to shutter
J.C. Penney lists the 138 stores it is planning to shutter
Shares                J.C. Penney on Friday listed for the first time the 138 locations it will shutter in the coming months as the retailer seeks to cut costs and improve its profitability. Like other department stores, J.C. Penney Co. is hurting as more people shop online instead of heading to the mall. The closures are part of the company's previously announced plans to focus on its best-performing stores. About 5,000 jobs will be cut due to the closures, J.C. Penney said. The company had about 105,000 full and part-time employees last year. Nine stores will close in Texas, the most of any state. Eight will close in Minnesota and seven will be shut in both Michigan and Pennsylvania . Liquidation sales at the 138 stores will start next month, and most of the stores will be shut by mid-June, the company said. The closings will leave J.C. Penney with a total of about 900 stores. Shares                  J.C. Penney lists the 138 stores it is planning to shutter   A timeline of Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping claims   In Appalachia, Trump's proposed budget has people worried   Man killed at Paris airport trying to grab soldier's rifle   Ex-trooper charged in 2014 shooting death of pregnant wife   How a school bomb-scare case sparked a media vs. FBI fight   Officials: Woman shot by Tennessee deputies had a BB gun   Accused White House fence jumper was on grounds for 16 minutes: Secret Service   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Running for president? Some states want tax returns public   DNA links suspected Detroit cop shooter to November murder of university officer, chief says   Secret Service laptop with Trump Tower floor plans stolen in New York   Cold weather kills many cherry blossom blooms in DC   Judge won't toss fatal shooting video from officer's case   Death toll rises after US airstrike in Syrian village   Man charged as run-over medic is mourned as job's matriarch   Grieving families speak out as police hunt for killer of 2 Colorado teens   More victims come forward in Marine nude photo scandal   Alleged victim of Marines nude photo scandal speaks out   Top Marine asks women to 'trust us' in nude-photo inquiry   Police search home on property where slain Indiana teens were found   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Job training session with Merkel shows Ivanka's influence   Louis-Dreyfus celebrating her son's NCAA win is all you need to see today   Comedian Artie Lange arrested over drug possession   Prince William, Princess Kate visit Paris

J.C. Penney on Friday listed for the first time the 138 locations it will shutter in the coming months as the retailer seeks to cut costs and improve its profitability.

Like other department stores, J.C. Penney Co. is hurting as more people shop online instead of heading to the mall. The closures are part of the company's previously announced plans to focus on its best-performing stores.

About 5,000 jobs will be cut due to the closures, J.C. Penney said. The company had about 105,000 full and part-time employees last year.

Nine stores will close in Texas, the most of any state. Eight will close in Minnesota and seven will be shut in both Michigan and Pennsylvania.

Liquidation sales at the 138 stores will start next month, and most of the stores will be shut by mid-June, the company said.

The closings will leave J.C. Penney with a total of about 900 stores.