Beauty: your hair regime doesn’t have to be hard work

fter more than two decades in the industry, I’m confident in my knowledge of skincare, makeup and fragrance, but haircare comes less naturally. I approach styling with insatiable curiosity and unfailingly grill the many hair experts I work with, eager to share whichever advice I find useful. Perhaps aware of my relative ineptitude with all matters follicular, readers often ask how I style my own hair, and I’m pleased to tell them, because my look (if you can even call it that) is easy for a novice to achieve. When my hair (cut by Luke, Jordan or Adrian at Hershesons in London ) is wet, I use my (£8.99) to brush upside down, then, with it falling in the wrong direction, wrap it in a , such as Marks & Spencer’s £6 number . This stage of the operation makes all the difference between a bad hair day and a relatively good one. After breakfast, I spray a little (£10.85) into the damp roots (excessive volumiser has the opposite effect). I don’t blowdry, but rather just tip my head forward and roughly blast my hair until dry. I arrange into a parting with my fingers, then heat Hershesons’ (£98), before lifting smallish, random sections and winding them briefly around the barrel to make them bend and wave. It takes less than five minutes and I don’t care if half my hair remains straight. To hold them in place, and to give the waves a casual, slightly slept-in look, I use dry texturising spray. My favourites, such as the fantastic L’Oréal’s , keep getting discontinued (if you see it, buy it), but the closest placeholder I’ve found is (£3). It’s much cheaper, has decent hold, and gives a matte finish and some grip without making hair feel brittle (it’s also good on day-old hair that needs a spruce). Finally, when I can be bothered, I dust on some grey cover-up, because I can’t dye my hair. I’ve tried dozens and found (£8.66), to be the easiest to apply. Just dab the fat little puff into the pressed powder and lightly against grey roots to completely cover them. It’s perfect if you’ve found the spray equivalents stipple your forehead as though a nearby motorist has ploughed through a puddle at speed..  Women's hair   Sali Hughes on beauty   Beauty   Makeup   features

After more than two decades in the industry, I’m confident in my knowledge of skincare, makeup and fragrance, but haircare comes less naturally. I approach styling with insatiable curiosity and unfailingly grill the many hair experts I work with, eager to share whichever advice I find useful.

Perhaps aware of my relative ineptitude with all matters follicular, readers often ask how I style my own hair, and I’m pleased to tell them, because my look (if you can even call it that) is easy for a novice to achieve. When my hair (cut by Luke, Jordan or Adrian at Hershesons in London) is wet, I use my Wet Brush Classic (£8.99) to brush upside down, then, with it falling in the wrong direction, wrap it in a quick-dry towel, such as Marks & Spencer’s £6 number. This stage of the operation makes all the difference between a bad hair day and a relatively good one.

After breakfast, I spray a little Tigi Bed Head Superstar Queen For A Day (£10.85) into the damp roots (excessive volumiser has the opposite effect). I don’t blowdry, but rather just tip my head forward and roughly blast my hair until dry. I arrange into a parting with my fingers, then heat Hershesons’ Tourmaline Waving Tongs (£98), before lifting smallish, random sections and winding them briefly around the barrel to make them bend and wave. It takes less than five minutes and I don’t care if half my hair remains straight.

Beauty: selfie powders that flatter on and off camera Read more

To hold them in place, and to give the waves a casual, slightly slept-in look, I use dry texturising spray. My favourites, such as the fantastic L’Oréal’s Wild Stylers Next Day Hair, keep getting discontinued (if you see it, buy it), but the closest placeholder I’ve found is VO5 Give Me Texture (£3). It’s much cheaper, has decent hold, and gives a matte finish and some grip without making hair feel brittle (it’s also good on day-old hair that needs a spruce).

Finally, when I can be bothered, I dust on some grey cover-up, because I can’t dye my hair. I’ve tried dozens and found Everpro’s Zero Grey (£8.66), to be the easiest to apply. Just dab the fat little puff into the pressed powder and lightly against grey roots to completely cover them. It’s perfect if you’ve found the spray equivalents stipple your forehead as though a nearby motorist has ploughed through a puddle at speed..