Ex-trooper charged in 2014 shooting death of pregnant wife
Ex-trooper charged in 2014 shooting death of pregnant wife
Shares                At first, Pennsylvania state trooper Joseph Miller said he was as far as 10 feet away cleaning his gun when it accidentally discharged, killing his pregnant wife. Later, he told detectives he was 2 feet away. On Friday, three years after the shooting, Miller was under arrest after prosecutors said new tests showed the gun was 3 to 6 inches from her head when it went off. Miller, 36, was arraigned Friday on two counts of involuntary manslaughter in the deaths of JoAnna Miller and their newborn baby, prosecutors in suburban Philadelphia said. JoAnna Miller was 24 weeks pregnant when she was shot in the head in the family room of their East Norriton home on March 7, 2014, as she organized children's clothes. She died at a hospital after delivering a girl via an emergency C-section. The baby, named Gillian, died shortly thereafter. In a call Joseph Miller placed to 911 after the shooting, he tells a dispatcher: "I, ah, was cleaning. I was about to clean my gun, and I didn't realize there was a round ... I shot my wife." He can then be heard consoling children, saying, "Guys, guys, guys, it's OK." The couple has four other children. Miller told detectives he was disassembling his personal gun in the family room so he could clean it when it discharged and struck his 34-year-old wife, who was sitting on the floor sorting clothes for donation, according to a criminal complaint. He initially told police he was about 8 to 10 feet away from his wife but later changed his estimate to about 2 feet away. However, a coroner ruled JoAnna Miller's cause of death was a "perforating close range gunshot wound of the head." A two-year investigation involving ballistics and forensic tests showed the gun was 3 to 6 inches from JoAnna Miller's head when it went off, according to a statement by the Montgomery County district attorney's office. Joseph Miller also told detectives he didn't check to see whether the gun was unloaded before cleaning it. In an interview transcript released Friday, investigators asked Miller: "Did you intentionally shoot your wife?" "I did not," he replied. "It was an accident. I love her to death." Prosecutors say Miller had extensive firearms safety training as part of his job as a state trooper and disregarded the essential standards and procedures for handling weapons the day he shot his wife, according to the criminal complaint. In June 2014, the district attorney's office concluded the shooting was negligent but accidental. Authorities at the time said all evidence indicated the Millers were "a close-knit, loving family excited about the pending arrival of a new baby." However, the investigation remained open as evidence was examined. A message seeking comment from Miller's lawyer wasn't returned. He is free on $100,000 bail and was ordered to surrender his passport and firearms. Shares                  Ex-trooper charged in 2014 shooting death of pregnant wife   A timeline of Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping claims   North Korea, South China Sea on Tillerson agenda in Beijing   Accused White House fence jumper was on grounds for 16 minutes: Secret Service   Running for president? Some states want tax returns public   DNA links suspected Detroit cop shooter to November murder of university officer, chief says   Secret Service laptop with Trump Tower floor plans stolen in New York   Cold weather kills many cherry blossom blooms in DC   Judge won't toss fatal shooting video from officer's case   Death toll rises after US airstrike in Syrian village   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Man charged as run-over medic is mourned as job's matriarch   Grieving families speak out as police hunt for killer of 2 Colorado teens   J.C. Penney lists the 138 stores it is planning to shutter   Italian media: Thieves' smoke bombs spark panic in Venice   Conway tells behind-the-scenes story about Clinton's concession call   Dad and daughter transition together from mother and son: 'If she can do it, so can I'   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Federal cyanide trap injures eastern Idaho boy, kills dog   Some conservatives line up behind health care plan for vote next week   Louis-Dreyfus celebrating her son's NCAA win is all you need to see today   Jury hears from tattoo artist in ex-NFL star's murder trial   Amanda Seyfried secretly wed Thomas Sadoski

At first, Pennsylvania state trooper Joseph Miller said he was as far as 10 feet away cleaning his gun when it accidentally discharged, killing his pregnant wife.

Later, he told detectives he was 2 feet away.

On Friday, three years after the shooting, Miller was under arrest after prosecutors said new tests showed the gun was 3 to 6 inches from her head when it went off.

Miller, 36, was arraigned Friday on two counts of involuntary manslaughter in the deaths of JoAnna Miller and their newborn baby, prosecutors in suburban Philadelphia said.

JoAnna Miller was 24 weeks pregnant when she was shot in the head in the family room of their East Norriton home on March 7, 2014, as she organized children's clothes. She died at a hospital after delivering a girl via an emergency C-section. The baby, named Gillian, died shortly thereafter.

In a call Joseph Miller placed to 911 after the shooting, he tells a dispatcher: "I, ah, was cleaning. I was about to clean my gun, and I didn't realize there was a round ... I shot my wife." He can then be heard consoling children, saying, "Guys, guys, guys, it's OK."

The couple has four other children.

Miller told detectives he was disassembling his personal gun in the family room so he could clean it when it discharged and struck his 34-year-old wife, who was sitting on the floor sorting clothes for donation, according to a criminal complaint.

He initially told police he was about 8 to 10 feet away from his wife but later changed his estimate to about 2 feet away.

However, a coroner ruled JoAnna Miller's cause of death was a "perforating close range gunshot wound of the head." A two-year investigation involving ballistics and forensic tests showed the gun was 3 to 6 inches from JoAnna Miller's head when it went off, according to a statement by the Montgomery County district attorney's office.

Joseph Miller also told detectives he didn't check to see whether the gun was unloaded before cleaning it.

In an interview transcript released Friday, investigators asked Miller: "Did you intentionally shoot your wife?"

"I did not," he replied. "It was an accident. I love her to death."

Prosecutors say Miller had extensive firearms safety training as part of his job as a state trooper and disregarded the essential standards and procedures for handling weapons the day he shot his wife, according to the criminal complaint.

In June 2014, the district attorney's office concluded the shooting was negligent but accidental.

Authorities at the time said all evidence indicated the Millers were "a close-knit, loving family excited about the pending arrival of a new baby."

However, the investigation remained open as evidence was examined.

A message seeking comment from Miller's lawyer wasn't returned. He is free on $100,000 bail and was ordered to surrender his passport and firearms.