NCAA Tournament 2017: B/R Expert Predictions and Updated Results for 2nd Round
NCAA Tournament 2017: B/R Expert Predictions and Updated Results for 2nd Round
NCAA Tournament 2017: B/R Expert Predictions and Updated Results for 2nd Round The first round of the 2017 NCAA tournament is finished, and that was rather undramatic, wasn't it? The biggest upset of the first round was No. 12 Middle Tennessee over No. 5 Minnesota, and the Blue Raiders were favored in Las Vegas, according to OddsShark . There were a few memorable games—No. 7 Michigan vs. No. 11 Oklahoma State; No. 8 Northwestern vs. No. 9 Vanderbilt; and No. 11 USC vs. No. 6 SMU—but it wasn't the madness we're used to in the opening days. That means the second round is going to be nuts, right? Well, our experts don't exactly think so. This might just be the year to go chalk. Read on to see who B/R thinks is moving on, and be sure to check back here regularly, as we'll be updating this piece with recaps as games finish. Matchup: No. 5 Seed Notre Dame vs. No. 4 Seed West Virginia Saturday at 12:10 p.m. ET (CBS) in Buffalo, New York  The Irish are able to take care of the ball and run their stuff. The challenge in playing the Mountaineers is that they not only are the best in the country at creating turnovers , but they also speed teams up, and many teams end up getting away from what they typically do on the offensive end. Notre Dame is the best in the country at taking care of the ball , turning it over on only 13.8 percent of its possessions. So the Irish need to simply be their typical careful selves and keep the game at their pace.  The Mountaineers shoot the ball well from deep and are able to take advantage of Notre Dame’s small lineups by crashing the glass. West Virginia’s offense is at its best when the defense is able to create live-ball turnovers, which turn into fast-break points. That could be difficult against the Irish. That means the Mountaineers need to be sharp in their half-court offense. They have a tendency to settle for quick, questionable shots when the pace isn’t to their liking. That would be doing the Irish a favor because defense isn’t their strongest suit. Also, WVU should have an advantage on the boards. The Mountaineers rank sixth nationally in offensive rebounding rate. Defensive rebounding is a weakness for the Irish—they rank 244th.  West Virginia’s Jevon Carter needs to have a good game on both ends. He’s one of the best on-the-ball defenders in the country, and if he can bother Fighting Irish point guard Matt Farrell, that could throw off Notre Dame’s offensive rhythm. The Irish need big games out of Farrell and Bonzie Colson. Colson is playing on a bum ankle, but he still managed to score 18 points in the win against Princeton on Thursday.   Matchup: No. 1 Seed Villanova vs. No. 8 Seed Wisconsin Saturday at 2:40 p.m. ET (CBS) in Buffalo, New York Jay Wright’s guards can penetrate Wisconsin’s pack-line defense and send the Badgers scrambling in rotations. This is what the Wildcats do best, and they should have a quickness advantage at a few spots on the floor. They also need to get Kris Jenkins going. Last year’s national championship hero started this tournament going 0-of-6 on three-point attempts. Villanova, as a team, shot just 6-of-17 from distance. One key to last year’s title run was the Wildcats making 50 percent of their threes in the tourney.  The Badgers can capitalize on their size advantage inside and play through Nigel Hayes and Ethan Happ. The duo combined for 26 points in their opening-round win over Virginia Tech. Wisconsin also needs senior guard Bronson Koenig to stay hot. Koenig hit eight threes against the Hokies, and the Badgers have been a different team this season when he’s healthy and shooting the ball well. They are smart in that when they isolate Hayes on the block, they often to do so with Koenig on the same side so it makes it hard to double-team. If those two go off again, Wisconsin has a real shot to pull off the upset.  Hayes and Koenig seem to control the Badgers' fate. When they’re on, Wisconsin looks like a top-10 team. When they’re off, the Badgers get average real quick. For Villanova, it’s sophomore point guard Jalen Brunson, senior guard Josh Hart and freshman guard Donte DiVincenzo. Those are 'Nova’s three best penetrators. DiVincenzo was awesome off the bench in the opening round, scoring 21 points and grabbing 13 rebounds.  Villanova Matchup: No. 1 Seed Gonzaga vs. No. 8 Seed Northwestern Saturday at 5:15 p.m. ET (CBS) in Salt Lake City  The Zags play through their bigs. Gonzaga’s front line has a definite size advantage against Northwestern, who starts Dererk Pardon (6’8”) and Sanjay Lumpkin (6’6”) inside. Gonzaga got a little three-happy in its opener against South Dakota State, attempting 30 threes and making only eight. That was the second-most attempts from deep all season for the Bulldogs. They’re typically a team that plays through their bigs, and the game plan should be to get 7’1” giant Przemek Karnowski and freshman 7-footer Zach Collins as many touches as possible.  The Wildcats are able to control the tempo and bait the Zags into shooting from outside (and hope they’re cold again). Northwestern likes to play at a slow pace, and a low-possession game is the best blueprint for an upset.  The matchup between Northwestern point guard Bryant McIntosh and Gonzaga point guard Nigel Williams-Goss is key. McIntosh lit up Vandy’s Riley LaChance in the first round for 25 points. LaChance is not a great defender, so going up against Williams-Goss is a much more difficult challenge. The Zags need better play out of their All-American guard. Williams-Goss shot just 4-of-13 against South Dakota State. His focus should be getting the bigs involved early. He typically does a good job of picking his spots to attack, and he doesn’t have to score for the Bulldogs to have success on the offensive end. McIntosh likely does.  Matchup: No. 11 Seed Xavier vs. No. 3 Seed Florida State Saturday at 6:10 p.m. ET (TNT) in Orlando, Florida  The Musketeers are able to shoot the ball well from the perimeter. It’s difficult to score against Florida State’s length in the paint. If Xavier can hit some shots early and get the Seminoles to extend their defense, that should open up some driving lanes and more opportunities to score at the basket. Xavier did shoot the ball well in the opening round, knocking down nine of 23 threes in the upset win over Maryland.  The Seminoles can handle Xavier’s mixing of defenses. Musketeers coach Chris Mack is one of the best in the country at switching his defenses up during the course of a game. Florida State needs to be smart in how it attacks and run good offense. Another key for the Seminoles is not letting up and controlling their energy on defense. They sometimes aren’t as sharp on that end when things aren’t running smoothly offensively. They have the talent to simply win this game with a great defensive effort.  Xavier needs its two best shot-makers, Trevon Bluiett and J.P. Macura, to be hitting against the Seminoles. Bluiett was on against Maryland, burying five of 10 threes and scoring 21 points. Macura scored 10 points but had an off shooting night, missing all four of his three-point attempts and making only two of six shots at the free-throw line, where he was shooting 81.0 percent coming into the NCAA tournament. Florida State is at its best when both Dwayne Bacon and Jonathan Isaac play to their talent. Isaac, who is expected to be a lottery pick, sometimes disappears. However, he was solid against Florida Gulf Coast, scoring 17 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. Bacon was also on, leading the Seminoles with 25 points.  Xavier Matchup: No. 12 Middle Tennessee vs. No. 4 Butler Saturday at 7:10 p.m. ET (TBS) in Milwaukee  The Blue Raiders execute in the half court. Butler is not the most talented team in the country, but the Bulldogs have so much success year in and year out because they simply outsmart most of their opponents. They execute on both ends and rarely ever mess up. So to beat Butler, you have to play an intelligent game and not take stupid shots. Middle Tennessee did this for the most part against Minnesota once it settled down. The Blue Raiders need better (and smarter) play out of leading scorer JaCorey Williams, who was trigger-happy against Minnesota and shot just 4-of-14 from the field.  The Bulldogs bring their A-level defense, as they did against Winthrop, and are able to figure out Middle Tennessee’s changing defenses. The Blue Raiders will mix man and some zone looks. Butler’s defensive numbers are closer to average than usual this year—48th in adjusted efficiency, per KenPom.com . The Blue Raiders have some tricky matchups, particularly Reggie Upshaw, a big man with guard skills. Upshaw has been the key to Middle Tennessee’s March success. He was brilliant last year in the upset win over Michigan State and on Thursday against Minnesota. When Middle Tennessee got blown out in the round of 32 against Syracuse last season, he went 1-of-10 from the field and scored only two points.  Middle Tennessee relies a ton on the three-headed monster of Williams, Upshaw and Giddy Potts, who average a combined 47.6 points. Butler’s Andrew Chrabascz and Kamar Baldwin will likely get the Upshaw and Potts assignments. Baldwin, a freshman guard, was key in slowing down Winthrop star Keon Johnson, who scored 17 points but needed 19 shots to get it done.  Matchup: No. 7 Seed Saint Mary's vs. No. 2 Seed Arizona Saturday at 7:45 p.m. ET (CBS) in Salt Lake City  The Gaels get off to a good start and don't let Arizona go on any big runs. That’s been an issue in the three losses to Gonzaga, especially in the WCC final. The Zags led 39-18 at half and the game was over. The Gaels need to prove to themselves early on that they can play with the Wildcats. They also need to keep the game close so they can control the pace. St. Mary's plays at the second-slowest tempo in the country, so a methodical, half-court game would be to its liking.  The Wildcats are sound defensively. Saint Mary’s will pick you apart if you start scrambling on defense, which is what VCU did much of the night in the first round. The Gaels are patient and practically just wait for the defense to make a mistake. Offensively, Arizona’s guards need to be aggressive driving the ball. VCU’s JeQuan Lewis scored 30 points and was able to get in the paint just about whenever he wanted.  Arizona should be in great shape if Allonzo Trier and Rawle Alkins play as they did in the opening round. Trier had 18 points and three assists against North Dakota, and Alkins scored 20 points without missing a shot. Both Trier and Alkins have the ability to give the Gaels fits. One issue for VCU was it lacked the outside shooters to take advantage of Lewis' penetrating abilities. Arizona has one of the best shooters in the country in 7’0” freshman Lauri Markkanen, who also had a solid first tourney game with 20 points on 8-of-12 shooting. For the Gaels, they need big man Jock Landale to show up in a huge way. Arizona’s interior defense isn’t as good as has been in the past, and Landale is one of the best back-to-the-basket scorers in the country. He battled foul trouble in all three losses to Gonzaga. He needs to avoid that on Saturday.  Matchup: No. 4 Seed Florida vs. No. 5 Seed Virginia Saturday at 8:40 p.m. ET (TNT) in Orlando, Florida  The Gators are able to push the pace and don’t always have to go against Virginia’s set defense. The Cavaliers rank second in the country in adjusted defensive efficiency, per KenPom.com , and are incredibly sound on the defensive end. It helps that Florida has guards like Kasey Hill, KeVaughn Allen and Chris Chiozza, who can spread the floor and penetrate Virginia’s defense. UNC Wilmington had some success doing this early on Thursday but just couldn’t keep it going.  Their guards stay hot. The Cavaliers looked in trouble on Thursday against UNC Wilmington until London Perrantes and Marial Shayok took over. Shayok played the game of his life off the bench, burying jumpers and attacking off the bounce on his way to a career-high 23 points. The Cavaliers had been struggling to score lately, but offense came easy once they started their comeback midway through the first half against the Seahawks. They’ll face a much more capable defense on Saturday. The Gators are one of the best defenses in the country with quickness and length that will really test UVA. The Cavaliers cannot get in a big hole again and expect to come back.  Florida has a chance to go deep in this tournament if its perimeter group of Hill, Allen, Chiozza, Devin Robinson and Canyon Barry play well. Robinson was a stud against East Tennessee State, scoring 24 points and grabbing seven boards. The Cavaliers need Perrantes and Shayok to stay hot. Perrantes, who scored 24 in the opening round, has been pretty consistent all season, but he’s the only guy on the roster who averages double figures. He needs help, and Shayok looked plenty capable on Thursday.  Florida Matchup: No. 4 Purdue vs. No. 5 Iowa State Saturday at 9:40 p.m. ET (TBS) in Milwaukee  The Boilermakers are able to play through their bigs. Iowa State is one of the smallest major-conference teams in the country, with no one taller than 6’8” in its rotation. Purdue is already at its best when playing inside-out, and that needs to be the plan against the Cyclones. That means a lot of double-double machine Caleb Swanigan. The Cyclones will likely double Swanigan, so Purdue’s shooters need to capitalize. They shot a solid 9-of-20 from deep in the win over Vermont.  The Cyclones keep shooting the ball as they have the last month. They have won 10 of their last 11 because they have been filling it up from deep. The key to that success is Iowa State’s ability to spread the floor and simply wait for an open look to present itself. Look for the Cyclones to try to put Purdue’s true bigs, Swanigan and Isaac Haas, in a lot of ball-screen situations to create these opportunities on Saturday.  Monte Morris is one of the best point guards in the country, and he sets the table for the Cyclones. Purdue needs to keep the ball out of his hands and away from small-ball power forward Deonte Burton. It’s typically their penetration that leads to easy shots for Iowa State. The Boilermakers need a big game out of Swanigan and also need Vincent Edwards to play well. Edwards will likely get the assignment against Burton. He could be the beneficiary of the double-teams the Cyclones are likely to send Swanigan’s way.  Matchup: No. 7 Seed Michigan vs. No. 2 Seed Louisville Sunday at 12:10 p.m. ET (CBS) in Indianapolis  The Wolverines continue to never miss another three-pointer ever again. OK, Michigan may have missed a few (but not many) in its opening-round win over Oklahoma State. Louisville’s defense is often disruptive. Michigan needs to find a way to keep its offensive rhythm. If the Wolverines are able to do that, it’s hard to see the Cardinals being able to score with them.  The Cards can disrupt that rhythm Michigan is playing with right now. The Cards rank seventh in adjusted defensive efficiency, but their defense, at its best, is better than anyone in the country. They need to be able to use their length and quickness to contest Michigan’s shooters. If the Wolverines get room-and-rhythm jumpers, they’re not going to miss many.  Michigan’s Derrick Walton Jr. is playing as well as any point guard in the country right now. He went for 26 points and 11 assists against Oklahoma State, and he’s scored 20-plus in three straight games. Louisville’s offense often rides on the play of star guard Donovan Mitchell. The sophomore had a rough first-round game, missing his first 11 field-goal attempts against Jacksonville State.  Matchup: No. 10 Seed Wichita State vs. No. 2 Seed Kentucky Sunday at 2:40 p.m. ET (CBS) in Indianapolis  The Shockers are able to keep Kentucky out of transition and force Malik Monk to take difficult shots. Monk is so talented that sometimes it doesn’t matter what kind of shots you make him take. But the Shockers are so physical and sound on the defensive end that the Wildcats could struggle to score if they're forced to play in the half court and Monk isn't able to get clean looks. Wichita State could get its offense going by finding a way to get sharpshooter Conner Frankamp some clean looks. On Friday, the Dayton Flyers were glued to Frankamp all game, and he only got three three-point attempts up, finally getting in the scorebook in the final two minutes.  The Wildcats are able to push the pace and not get frustrated by Wichita State's physicality. Kentucky has had a tendency of getting away from running smart offense when things don't come easily, and things are not going to be easy against the Shockers unless UK is able to get transition opportunities. The Wildcats need to find a way to get De'Aaron Fox some driving lanes because the freshman's speed could give Wichita State issues. The last time the Shockers faced a guard even close to as talented as Fox was mid-December against Oklahoma State and Jawun Evans. The Cowboys won by 17 in Wichita, Kansas, and Evans scored 22 points.  Frankamp entered the NCAA tournament on fire. He made 50.6 percent of his threes during Missouri Valley play and was the MVP of the conference tourney. Dayton made it a priority to slow him down, and that helped lead to Wichita State's having its most inefficient performance since late January. The Wildcats need their big three freshman stars—Monk, Fox and Edrice "Bam" Adebayo—to show up. The Cats live and die by those freshmen.  Matchup: No. 9 Seed Michigan State vs. No. 1 Seed Kansas Sunday at 5:15 p.m. ET (CBS) in Tulsa, Oklahoma  The Jayhawks defend. Kansas has been more up and down on the defensive end than just about any Bill Self-coached team ever. When the Jayhawks are engaged and playing with effort, they have the ability to be closer to elite defensively than their numbers show ( No. 28 overall in adjusted defensive efficiency, allowing 94.9 points per 100 possessions, according to KenPom.com). Josh Jackson is the most important piece to KU's defense, and he'll need to bring it against Michigan State's Miles Bridges. Jackson is usually at his best on a big stage and when he respects his opponent, which bodes well for KU. He's known Bridges for a long time—both are from Michigan—and he has to have a high regard for the abilities of the Spartans guard, who is another future pro.  The Spartans are able to frustrate the Jayhawks with their defense as they were able to do against the No. 8 Miami Hurricanes. When things aren't going right for the Jayhawks, they have a tendency to play hero ball and go one-on-one. KU senior guard Frank Mason III is so good that sometimes that still works out, but the Jayhawks are way harder to beat when they play together. Offensively, the Spartans should try to play through Nick Ward and Bridges in the post. Kansas has struggled against elite big men this year and is thin on the interior. If Ward could get Jayhawks center Landen Lucas in foul trouble, KU suffers a big drop-off with its backup bigs.  The Jackson-Bridges matchup will be huge in this one. Both teams are reliant on their freshmen stars. Kansas less so because of the abilities of Mason and Devonte' Graham. Jackson could have an off game offensively, and KU could still win. That's probably not the case for Michigan State and Bridges.  Michigan State Matchup: No. 1 Seed North Carolina vs. No. 8 Seed Arkansas Sunday at 6:10 p.m. ET (TNT) in Greenville, South Carolina  The Tar Heels limit turnovers against the Arkansas defense. The Razorbacks pressure all over the floor and employ a lot of random traps. UNC veteran point guard Joel Berry should be able to handle it. As long as the Heels don’t turn the ball over, they should be able to score against the Razorbacks. Simply getting shots up could be a win. The Heels are the best offensive rebounding team in the country. Arkansas performs poorly on the defensive glass and gave up 21 offensive rebounds in the first round to Seton Hall.  The Razorbacks can create chaos. They need to be able to turn the Heels over and get them out of their offense. If they’re not able to do that, their best chance might be to pack in the paint, hope UNC has a bad shooting night and find a way to keep it off the glass.  The Heels like to play inside-out, but they’re at their best when both Berry and Justin Jackson are hitting shots. Jackson is one of the most improved shooters in the country and has emerged as UNC’s star this season. Arkansas needs big games out of both Dusty Hannahs and Moses Kingsley. Kingsley has to stay out of foul trouble against UNC’s army of bigs. Hannahs is the team’s leading scorer and best three-point shooter. The Razorbacks need to find ways to get him looks.  North Carolina Matchup: No. 3 Seed Oregon vs. No. 11 Rhode Island Sunday at 7:10 p.m. ET (TBS) in Sacramento, California  The Ducks continue to share the wealth. Their offense is at its best when the ball is moving and their scoring is balanced. That’s why it was a good sign to see four players score 16 or more points in the opening-round win over Iona.  The Rams need to win with their defense. It carried them through the A-10 tournament and was impressive in slowing down Creighton. The Bluejays served as good prep because they play a style similar to the Ducks', spreading the floor and looking to take advantage of mismatches. Rhode Island did an admirable job slowing down Creighton's leading scorer, Marcus Foster, who totaled 15 points but needed 19 tries to get there. If the Rams can do the same to Oregon's Dillon Brooks, they’ll have a shot.  The Rams need top scorer E.C. Matthews to bounce back from a rough shooting performance on Friday. He scored 16 points but made just three of 12 shots from the field. Brooks is Oregon’s star on offense, but the most important player for the Ducks now that Chris Boucher is out might be big man Jordan Bell, who went for 17 points and 12 boards against Iona.  Oregon Rhode Island No. 11 Seed USC vs. No. 3 Seed Baylor Sunday at 7:45 p.m. ET (truTV) in Tulsa, Oklahoma  Andy Enfield’s team is able to build a big deficit…wait, what? The Trojans have been the comeback kids in this NCAA tournament and seem to perform better when playing from behind. That’s not exactly a logical strategy, so they might want to find that urgency without getting behind. USC also needs to get into the gaps of Baylor’s zone. The Trojans have the personnel to effectively attack a zone—Bennie Boatwright is the perfect middle man, and they have shooters—but they entered the tournament ranking 161st in zone offense efficiency, per Synergy Sports.  The Bears dominate the paint. Baylor has been at its best this season when its bigs are playing well, led by All-American candidate Johnathan Motley. Scott Drew got terrific play out of his front line in the first round, with Motley and Jo Lual-Acuil combining for 31 points and Terry Maston adding 19 off the bench after going scoreless in four of his last five appearances.  Baylor’s bigs are key, but they’ve been pretty consistent all season. The biggest difference between the Bears during the nonconference slate—when they were red hot—and late in the Big 12 season—when they seriously struggled—was the play of Al Freeman, who was in a funk and suspended for three games. He’s getting back on track now and broke out for 21 points in Friday’s win. The Trojans need the good Elijah Stewart against Baylor’s zone. After going scoreless in the play-in game against Providence, Stewart nailed six threes, including the game-winner, and scored 22 points against SMU. He’ll need to be on top of his game for USC to win.  USC Matchup: No. 7 Seed South Carolina vs. No. 2 Seed Duke Sunday at 8:40 p.m. ET (TNT) in Greenville, South Carolina  The Gamecocks continue to score as easily as they did against Marquette. South Carolina has not been a great offensive team this season but looked like one against the Golden Eagles. Marquette played a part because it entered the tourney as one of the worst defensive teams in the field. The Golden Eagles did have one of the best offenses, however. South Carolina's defense is elite and was able to turn over Marquette 18 times. Duke rarely has turnover issues, but head coach Mike Krzyzewski does lack a traditional point guard. That could be an issue against South Carolina's pressure.   The Blue Devils do not let the Gamecocks turn the game into an ugly slugfest. South Carolina enjoys winning ugly, and that's not Duke’s jam. The Blue Devils have finally started to look like the juggernaut everyone anticipated and have scored easily lately. They need to keep that rhythm and not let their opponent muck it up.  Grayson Allen looked like his old self in the first round agains the No. 15 Troy Trojans, scoring 21 points and dishing out four assists. He's the closest thing to a true point guard Duke has, and he'll need to be able to handle South Carolina's pressure. The Gamecocks have one of the underrated players in the country in Sindarius Thornwell. He went for 29 points and 11 rebounds against Marquette. He'll need some help against Duke, but it's hard to see South Carolina winning without Thornwell bringing it.  Duke Matchup: No. 6 Seed Cincinnati vs. No. 3 Seed UCLA Sunday at 9:40 p.m. ET (TBS) in Sacramento, California  The Bearcats can control the paint and stay hot on the offensive end. This is not the Cincinnati we're used to seeing that struggles to score the basketball. The Bearcats are not a juggernaut but much more talented offensively than they've been in recent years. As always, they can dig in on the defensive end. To beat UCLA, they need to try to play the game in the half court because playing an uptempo game with the Bruins is usually a death sentence.  The Bruins guard enough. UCLA doesn't need to be great on the defensive end but cannot approach any tournament game with a laissez-faire attitude in that regard. Offensively, the Bruins just need to be themselves. When they move the ball, they're tough to control. But the Bearcats will do everything they can to mess with their rhythm.  The Bearcats need senior point guard Troy Caupain to stay hot and be up to the task of guarding UCLA star Lonzo Ball . Caupain scored 23 points in the win against the No. 11 Kansas State Wildcats on Friday. In Cincinnati's last three losses, he's scored in single digits each game. Ball is always the key for the Bruins. UCLA is difficult to beat when the freshman guard is rolling and playing smart. He has 11 turnovers in UCLA's last two losses.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

2 of 17

Details: Saturday at 12:10 p.m. ET (CBS) in Buffalo, New York

Notre Dame wins if…

The Irish are able to take care of the ball and run their stuff. The challenge in playing the Mountaineers is that they not only are the best in the country at creating turnovers, but they also speed teams up, and many teams end up getting away from what they typically do on the offensive end.

Notre Dame is the best in the country at taking care of the ball, turning it over on only 13.8 percent of its possessions. So the Irish need to simply be their typical careful selves and keep the game at their pace.

West Virginia wins if…

The Mountaineers shoot the ball well from deep and are able to take advantage of Notre Dame’s small lineups by crashing the glass.

West Virginia’s offense is at its best when the defense is able to create live-ball turnovers, which turn into fast-break points. That could be difficult against the Irish. That means the Mountaineers need to be sharp in their half-court offense. They have a tendency to settle for quick, questionable shots when the pace isn’t to their liking. That would be doing the Irish a favor because defense isn’t their strongest suit. Also, WVU should have an advantage on the boards. The Mountaineers rank sixth nationally in offensive rebounding rate. Defensive rebounding is a weakness for the Irish—they rank 244th.

Most important players:

West Virginia’s Jevon Carter needs to have a good game on both ends. He’s one of the best on-the-ball defenders in the country, and if he can bother Fighting Irish point guard Matt Farrell, that could throw off Notre Dame’s offensive rhythm.

The Irish need big games out of Farrell and Bonzie Colson. Colson is playing on a bum ankle, but he still managed to score 18 points in the win against Princeton on Thursday.

Predictions:

Miller: Notre Dame

Moore: Notre Dame

Pedersen: Notre Dame