Conor McGregor Declares He Will 'Stop Floyd' Mayweather and 'Take Over Boxing'
Conor McGregor Declares He Will 'Stop Floyd' Mayweather and 'Take Over Boxing'
After weeks of remaining relatively quiet and letting Floyd Mayweather do all the talking , Conor McGregor came out firing Friday night. After watching Northern Ireland native Michael Conlon defeat Tim Ibarra via knockout in his professional debut McGregor made a beeline to Rafael, and unleashed a verbal tirade where he vowed to " “Look me in the eyes, 28 years of age, confident as a motherfucker, long, rangy, dangerous with every hand,” McGregor continued. “Trust me, I’m going to stop Floyd, and you’re all going to eat your words. The whole world is going to eat their words.” sportstips@complex.com

After weeks of remaining relatively quiet and letting Floyd Mayweather do all the talking, Conor McGregor came out firing Friday night. After watching Northern Ireland native Michael Conlon defeat Tim Ibarra via knockout in his professional debut at the Theater in Madison Square Garden on St. Patrick's Day, McGregor asked a publicist to point out "the boxing guy" he had met earlier when coming into the arena. The "boxing guy" was ESPN's Dan Rafael.

McGregor made a beeline to Rafael, and unleashed a verbal tirade where he vowed to "take over boxing," and "stop Floyd." “I’m the boxing guy!” McGregor said. “Watch me take over boxing, trust me on that. No one in this boxing game knows what’s coming. Trust me on that. I’m going to step in there and shock the whole goddamn world. Trust me on that."

Even as it appears that McGregor is repeatedly trying to lunge at Rafael, the ESPN writer says he "never felt threatened" throughout the ordeal.

“Look me in the eyes, 28 years of age, confident as a motherfucker, long, rangy, dangerous with every hand,” McGregor continued. “Trust me, I’m going to stop Floyd, and you’re all going to eat your words. The whole world is going to eat their words.”

When asked if we were close to witnessing McGregor and Mayweather in the ring, The Notorious delivered something similar to the response we have heard for months now. “It’s getting close," he said. "Don’t worry about it. You’ll hear about it.”

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.