Donald Trump says Germany owes 'vast sums of money' to Nato and the US
Donald Trump says Germany owes 'vast sums of money' to Nato and the US
onald Trump has taken to Twitter to demand that Germany "pay more" to the United States for its defense, only hours after meeting with Angela Merkel. Mr Trump and the German Chancellor sat down together in The Oval Office for the first time yesterday and included discussions of America's terms for its continued commitment to Nato. Mrs Merkel told the president she believed Germany must work to pay its fair share to be in the alliance – a key demand by Mr Trump, who has repeatedly said he believes America is bearing the brunt of the costs. ut Mr Trump appeared unconvinced by these assurances on Saturday morning, when he tweeted from Mar-a-Lago, his Florida redoubt, that "Germany owes vast sums of money to NATO & the United States must be paid more for the powerful, and very expensive, defense it provides to Germany!". The comment came as he rejected media reports that the the two leaders, whose meeting had been postponed because of snow, had experienced a frosty encounter. "Despite what you have heard from the FAKE NEWS, I had a GREAT meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel," Mr Trump wrote, before following up with his comments about spending. Despite what you have heard from the FAKE NEWS, I had a GREAT meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Nevertheless, Germany owes..... he meeting between the two leaders had been marked by awkward body language. The German chancellor and US president posed for the press in The Oval Office, and photographers could be heard calling for the two to shake hands. Mrs Merkel turned and smiled at her host, asking him: "Do you want to have a handshake?" But Mr Trump looked down at the floor and avoided all eye-contact with his guest.

Donald Trump has taken to Twitter to demand that Germany "pay more" to the United States for its defense, only hours after meeting with Angela Merkel.

Mr Trump and the German Chancellor sat down together in The Oval Office for the first time yesterday and included discussions of America's terms for its continued commitment to Nato.

Mrs Merkel told the president she believed Germany must work to pay its fair share to be in the alliance – a key demand by Mr Trump, who has repeatedly said he believes America is bearing the brunt of the costs.