Las Vegas airport appears to be using a picture of Nick Clegg on its maintenance posters
Las Vegas airport appears to be using a picture of Nick Clegg on its maintenance posters
The former deputy Prime Minister and leader of the Liberal Democrats saw his party trounced in the 2015 elections, and became known for predicting the exact consequences of a Brexit vote following the UK referendum. Since then he's kept a relatively low profile - until eagle-eyed director Garth Jennings seemed to spot him in the unlikeliest of places... Note to Las Vegas airport. Are you aware you've used Nick Clegg on your maintenance posters? pic.twitter.com/sa2FCIpKXt  Yes, that appears to be Nick Clegg on a poster in an airport in Nevada, USA - advertising maintenance and building works, ironically. To clarify: we have no official confirmation that this is actually Nick Clegg. But a spokesperson for the airport told The artwork used was one of several images our graphic artists borrowed from a presentation originally created by the architecture firm that handled these renovations on behalf of the airport. We had no knowledge of who the man in this image was, nor can we identify any of the other persons/images used for this or other similar signs. We merely reused the renderings that our architect gave us. Nevertheless, this was the hilarious Lib Dem response... Royalties? https://t.co/TM1pbxmrB2  Twitter has some jokes, as always... @GarthJennings  @wokeotter at least he's getting work  It seems that the US stock image database is becoming a graveyard for formerly successful UK politicians... Lest we forget, that awkward moment when Ed Miliband's photograph was used by an American TV channel, warning viewers that "flu season has arrived". @GarthJennings Almost as good as the time Ed Miliband was on NBC as stock photo of 'man blowing nose'. #FluLabour  pic.twitter.com/iR3Bsz7ALK  Ouch.                     Keep scrolling for next article

It's fair to say it hasn't been an eventful of years for Nick Clegg.

The former deputy Prime Minister and leader of the Liberal Democrats saw his party trounced in the 2015 elections, and became known for predicting the exact consequences of a Brexit vote following the UK referendum.

Since then he's kept a relatively low profile - until eagle-eyed director Garth Jennings seemed to spot him in the unlikeliest of places...

Note to Las Vegas airport. Are you aware you've used Nick Clegg on your maintenance posters? pic.twitter.com/sa2FCIpKXt — Garth Jennings (@GarthJennings) March 16, 2017

Yes, that appears to be Nick Clegg on a poster in an airport in Nevada, USA - advertising maintenance and building works, ironically.

To clarify: we have no official confirmation that this is actually Nick Clegg.

But a spokesperson for the airport told MailOnline:

The artwork used was one of several images our graphic artists borrowed from a presentation originally created by the architecture firm that handled these renovations on behalf of the airport. We had no knowledge of who the man in this image was, nor can we identify any of the other persons/images used for this or other similar signs. We merely reused the renderings that our architect gave us.

Nevertheless, this was the hilarious Lib Dem response...

Twitter has some jokes, as always...

It seems that the US stock image database is becoming a graveyard for formerly successful UK politicians...

Lest we forget, that awkward moment when Ed Miliband's photograph was used by an American TV channel, warning viewers that "flu season has arrived".

@GarthJennings Almost as good as the time Ed Miliband was on NBC as stock photo of 'man blowing nose'. #FluLabour pic.twitter.com/iR3Bsz7ALK — The Miliverse (@TheMiliverse) March 16, 2017

Ouch.

More: Nick Clegg reading mean tweets about himself is even funnier than it should be

More: Nick Clegg predicted the future with stunning accuracy