Karnataka Govt Passes Bill To Ban Cheaters From Appearing In Exams For Three Years!
Karnataka Govt Passes Bill To Ban Cheaters From Appearing In Exams For Three Years!
Karnataka Govt Passes Bill To Ban Cheaters From Appearing In Exams For Three Years! In what could be a good deterring move against those who indulge in cheating during examinations, the Karnataka Education (Amendment) Bill 2017, piloted by primary and secondary education minister Tanveer Sait, was passed in the legislative council. The Bill seeks to hike the quantum of punishment for exam related malpractices. The bill was passed amid opposition from members of the BJP and JDS, who contended that the three year ban on a student caught copying was too harsh and would destroy the latter's academic career. BJP's Ganesh Karnik and JDS's Ramesh Babu demanded that the state government reduce the ban to a single semester instead of three years. The opposition members also said the bill sought to target teachers as it prescribed punishment for question paper leaks and refusal to report for evaluation of answer scripts. Defending the bill, Sait said, "It's wrong to say that the bill has been brought intentionally to target teachers. We want to check malpractices in exams and will target only those who are guilty. The provision makes a student caught copying liable for punishment of up to three years and will deter them from resorting to unfair means."

In what could be a good deterring move against those who indulge in cheating during examinations, the Karnataka Education (Amendment) Bill 2017, piloted by primary and secondary education minister Tanveer Sait, was passed in the legislative council.

The Bill seeks to hike the quantum of punishment for exam related malpractices.

BCCL/Representational Image

The bill was passed amid opposition from members of the BJP and JDS, who contended that the three year ban on a student caught copying was too harsh and would destroy the latter's academic career.

BJP's Ganesh Karnik and JDS's Ramesh Babu demanded that the state government reduce the ban to a single semester instead of three years. The opposition members also said the bill sought to target teachers as it prescribed punishment for question paper leaks and refusal to report for evaluation of answer scripts.

BCCL

Defending the bill, Sait said, "It's wrong to say that the bill has been brought intentionally to target teachers. We want to check malpractices in exams and will target only those who are guilty. The provision makes a student caught copying liable for punishment of up to three years and will deter them from resorting to unfair means."

Originally Published in the Times Of India

Don't Miss 36 K SHARES 12.6 K SHARES 24.1 K SHARES 12 K SHARES 22.3 K SHARES