Princess Gabriella cuddles Princess Charlene at rugby game
Princess Gabriella cuddles mum Princess Charlene at charity rugby game


As the beloved child of Monaco's royal couple Princess Gabriella clearly shares a loving bond with her parents.

And the cute two-year-old royal was feeling in an affectionate mood as she attended the Sainte Devote rugby tournament in Monte-Carlo with her parents Princess Charlene and Prince Albert II.

While her loving parents happily waved to the crowds, little princess Gabriella only had eyes for her mother as she cosied up to Princess Charlene at the Louis II stadium.

Scroll down for video

Special moments: Princess Gabriella shared a loving moment with her mother Princess Charlene as the royal family attended a charity rugby tournament

Mother and daughter shared an affectionate moment as Princess Gabriella gave her mother a huge hug.

The pretty little girl was smartly attired for the occasion in a grey suit and dress with black Mary-Jane shoes.

Her twin brother Prince Jacques was not seen on the day. The twins celebrated their landmark second birthday in December with a jungle-themed party.

Little princess Gabriella only had eyes for her mother as she cosied up to Princess Charlene at the Louis II stadium.

Royal wave: Princess Charlene looked regal as little Gabriella lifted her head to survey the watching crowds

Breathtaking: Princess Charlene looked stunning in her claret and cream ensemble, set off with natural make-up and diamond studs

Serene: Princess Charlene looked calm and focused as she enjoyed the rugby tournament

Princess Charlene, 39, looked like a true fairytale princess in a sophisticated merlot dress and matching stiletto heels.

The former champion swimmer wrapped up in a chic fitted cream coat.

Her caramel locks were perfectly coiffed with natural make-up complementing the elegant look.

Waving to the crowds: Princess Charlene and Prince Albert greeted the crowds

Happy couple: The royal pair looked close as they shared a moment at the charity rugby tournament

Close: Princess Charlene and Prince Albert II shared a joke together as they took a tour of the pitch before kick-off

Charlene shared a joke with a young flag bearer as she toured the pitch

Prince Albert looked dapper in a navy suit teamed with a matching tie and grey trousers.

The happy couple could be seen making their way around the rugby pitch and posing up with flag bearers before the start of the match.

Princess Charlene also showcased her effortless charm as she greeted the young rugby players before the start of the match.

The elegant royal was a hit with the young rugby players who smiled and greeted her as she showed her support for the teams

The couple posed arm-in-arm with a trio of young flag bearers at the match