Aged care program helping seniors live at home longer undergoes 'wonderful' change



Aged care program helping seniors live at home longer undergoes 'wonderful' change

Posted

For 79-year-old Jan Ilsey, in-home care is a lifeline.

She lives alone — her only companion a beloved grey poodle called Holly.

A slow walk around the neighbourhood and a chat to neighbours is the highlight of her day. She has lived in the same retirement community for 17 years and it is somewhere she feels safe.

But Jan knows that without care things would be different.

"I wouldn't be able to be here," she said. "And that really worried me. The fact that I might have to go somewhere else."

She is one of more than 70,000 Australian seniors who receive federally funded care to help them live in their own homes.

Ms Ilsey has the highest level Home Care Package, level 4 — worth about $49,000 a year.

For that she gets care three days a week. Help includes everything from cleaning, to shopping trips, to preparing meals.

But she was not happy with her previous provider.

"I wasn't getting accurate financial statements," she said. "I think they charged ... more than 36 per cent for management and care fees. And that's over a third."

Starting this month, seniors can do something that was practically impossible before, they can switch the company that provides that care.

That is exactly what Ms Ilsey plans to do. She is in the process of changing her care provider.

"I think it's a wonderful thing," she said. "Now that the change has come in, it's really good for me."

The Government says by 2019, 100,000 seniors will receive a Home Care Package, with a program budget of $1.96 billion per year.

Do you know more about this story? Email investigations@abc.net.au

Since 2015 seniors have had more choice about how they can use Home Care Packages.

But once they were assessed and assigned a package, they were virtually locked in to their initial provider.

At the beginning of this month, that all changed. Now control of home care packages — and the dollar value they carry — has shifted to the seniors receiving care, rather than the providers.

Ms Ilsey plans to shift her package to a locally owned franchise of private provider Home Instead Senior Care.

"It's exciting," franchise director Jasmine Hopcraft said.

She said her company emphasised service, and competitive fees. The changes mean more opportunity for her franchise and for clients.

"They can come across the organisations such as ours that will provide them with bills they can understand, more care hours, just a general better quality of care," Ms Hopcraft said.

Traditionally the provision of home care in Australia has been dominated by faith-based, not-for-profit organisations.

Churches of Christ Care, based in Queensland, has spent years preparing for a change that shifts control to home care clients.

"They can absolutely say, 'I'm going to go somewhere else where I can have my needs better met'," Ms Hopcraft said.

"And I think that's the way it should be."

Maurice Kingston, 98, has no plans to change his home care.

He lives alone, with the help of visits from Churches of Christ Care workers six times a week. But he does know that now, if he wanted to change providers, he could.

"They took an A4 page two-sided to tell me one thing: That I can now take my package with me wherever I want to go," Mr Kingston said.

On radio and television there has been an uptick in advertising as providers compete for home care clients.

Federal Minister for Aged Care Ken Wyatt said the competition was bound to produce better results for home care clients.

"Because it's market-based and market-driven, the providers themselves will start to spell out very clearly what it is that they're offering," Mr Wyatt said.

"I'm very optimistic."

Ms Ilsey could not be happier with the way things are working out for her and she has some advice for other seniors who have or may be about to get a Home Care Package: shop around.

"Now that the change has come in, it's really good for me and it could be good for other people too," she said.

Topics: aged-care, community-and-society, federal-government, government-and-politics, australia