Drake Returns as the Special Guest on Episode 39 of OVO Sound Radio
Drake Returns as the Special Guest on Episode 39 of OVO Sound Radio
As part of the scheduled release of his project , Drake will return as a special guest on his flagship Beats 1 program on the Apple Music platform. After a series of pump fakes ranging from deleted Instagram posts to standard music industry delays, will be made publicly available Saturday, March 18, during Episode 39 of OVO Sound Radio nearly five months after being announced . Friday March 17 brought confirmation of a widely expected OVO Sound Radio rollout via Twitter. #OVOSOUNDRADIO Tune into episode 39 with @OlivierElkhatib & @Drake Saturday on @Beats1 at 3PM PT / 6PM ET / 10PM GMT pic.twitter.com/dGFFrqbgEw Drake’s manager and OVO Sound Radio host Oliver El-Khatib initially made the announcement that the release would take place during the first quarter of 2017 during Episode 37 while providing a brief update on the project's progress. Speculation about proposed release dates came to an end on March 11, as Drake essentially gave consumers a one-week advanced notice on the project. We predicted who would appear on the album earlier this month , but it's finally time to hear the final product. You can tune in here .

As part of the scheduled release of his More Life project, Drake will return as a special guest on his flagship Beats 1 program on the Apple Music platform. After a series of pump fakes ranging from deleted Instagram posts to standard music industry delays, More Life will be made publicly available Saturday, March 18, during Episode 39 of OVO Sound Radio nearly five months after being announced.

Friday March 17 brought confirmation of a widely expected OVO Sound Radio rollout via Twitter.



Drake’s manager and OVO Sound Radio host Oliver El-Khatib initially made the announcement that the More Life release would take place during the first quarter of 2017 during Episode 37 while providing a brief update on the project's progress.

Speculation about proposed release dates came to an end on March 11, as Drake essentially gave consumers a one-week advanced notice on the project.

We predicted who would appear on the album earlier this month, but it's finally time to hear the final product. You can tune in here.