'Beauty and the Beast' in VR delivers Disney magic you can touch
'Beauty and the Beast' in VR delivers Disney magic you can touch
The latest version of the classic tale , starring Emma Watson , hit movie theaters on Friday, and the film's already number one at the box office. But if you can't get enough of the living furniture featured in the film, you can relive the experience in virtual reality using the Oculus Rift . SEE ALSO: 'Beauty and the Beast' review: So, what do those extra 45 minutes get you? Even if you have zero interest in the franchise, if you're anything like me, a strong dose of that old heartwarming Disney magic will creep into your cold cyberpunk heart upon strapping on the Rift and plunging into in the Disney VR app . Image:  disney via oculus But instead of simply having you sit at the table and watch the dancing flatware, the experience is turned into a kind of game, allowing you to rack up a score for every morsel of food or dinner utensil you can grab with your virtual hands using the Oculus Touch controllers. It's simultaneously a light challenge and a charming visit to the fantasy world of the film, rendered with pristine detail and faithfulness to the character of Lumiere as voiced by Ewan McGregor. The experience is free on the Oculus store, but if you don't have a Rift, you can check out a non-interactive, 360-degree version using the Gear VR or via Facebook (above). WATCH: Emma Watson reveals the deeper message in 'Beauty and the Beast'

The latest version of the classic tale Beauty and the Beast, starring Emma Watson, hit movie theaters on Friday, and the film's already number one at the box office.

But if you can't get enough of the living furniture featured in the film, you can relive the experience in virtual reality using the Oculus Rift.

Even if you have zero interest in the franchise, if you're anything like me, a strong dose of that old heartwarming Disney magic will creep into your cold cyberpunk heart upon strapping on the Rift and plunging into Lumiere’s Dress Rehearsal in the Disney VR app.

Image: disney via oculus

But instead of simply having you sit at the table and watch the dancing flatware, the experience is turned into a kind of game, allowing you to rack up a score for every morsel of food or dinner utensil you can grab with your virtual hands using the Oculus Touch controllers.

It's simultaneously a light challenge and a charming visit to the fantasy world of the film, rendered with pristine detail and faithfulness to the character of Lumiere as voiced by Ewan McGregor.

The experience is free on the Oculus store, but if you don't have a Rift, you can check out a non-interactive, 360-degree version using the Gear VR or via Facebook (above).