April the giraffe's unborn baby is a cash giraffe
April the giraffe's unborn baby is a cash giraffe
April the giraffe's overdue baby bump is turning into the Super Bowl of giraffe pregnancies. For the past five weeks, more than 80 million people have watched a YouTube livestream as April's unborn calf takes its sweet time in her womb. SEE ALSO: You guys, giraffe births are horrifying. Look away. Now, Animal Adventure Park, the upstate New York where the animal lives, is in the market for an advertiser, TMZ reports. And with April's newfound celebrity status, that spot is worth big money. The stream's original sponsor, Mazuri Exotic Animal Nutrition, locked down the rights for peanuts—or you know, whatever giraffes eat—back when everyone thought the baby would just be a one-and-done deal. The zoo asked only that the company keep the animal fed in return for the advertising space in the livestream description. But that deal just expired, according to the gossip site. The next sponsor will have to shell out more than giraffe feed to land a deal. The video's already attracted half the audience of a Super Bowl to watch a giraffe hang out in a room for two billion minutes. One can only imagine the massive number of eyeballs on that screen when the calf actually pops out. April better have that baby soon or she's going to end up looking like a Nascar. The zoo is reportedly donating a third of the money it makes to the Giraffe Conservation Foundation. WATCH: Animal artists paint for charity (and treats)

April the giraffe's overdue baby bump is turning into the Super Bowl of giraffe pregnancies.

For the past five weeks, more than 80 million people have watched a YouTube livestream as April's unborn calf takes its sweet time in her womb.

Now, Animal Adventure Park, the upstate New York where the animal lives, is in the market for an advertiser, TMZ reports.

And with April's newfound celebrity status, that spot is worth big money.

The stream's original sponsor, Mazuri Exotic Animal Nutrition, locked down the rights for peanuts—or you know, whatever giraffes eat—back when everyone thought the baby would just be a one-and-done deal. The zoo asked only that the company keep the animal fed in return for the advertising space in the livestream description.

But that deal just expired, according to the gossip site.

The next sponsor will have to shell out more than giraffe feed to land a deal.

The video's already attracted half the audience of a Super Bowl to watch a giraffe hang out in a room for two billion minutes. One can only imagine the massive number of eyeballs on that screen when the calf actually pops out.

April better have that baby soon or she's going to end up looking like a Nascar.

The zoo is reportedly donating a third of the money it makes to the Giraffe Conservation Foundation.