7 ‘Fatty Foods’ To Add To Your Grocery List To Cut Back Your Body Fat And Reduce The Risk Of Heart Disease
7 ‘Fatty Foods’ To Add To Your Grocery List To Cut Back Your Body Fat And Improve Heart Health
7 ‘Fatty Foods’ To Add To Your Grocery List To Cut Back Your Body Fat And Reduce The Risk Of Heart Disease ‘Healthy Eating’ has become quite a tedious task because of the availability of hordes of information popping out of literally from everywhere. From billboards to websites, to books, to advertisements, to infomercials—there is no dearth of information on this subject. It’s easy, however, to get carried away with the wave of information on offer; especially when it comes to topics such as eating ‘unprocessed foods’ or eating 'natural foods'. The subject has caught on since the time people started looking beyond fad diets and other marketing gimmicks to enhance their well-being. Natural saturated fats play a vital role when eating unprocessed foods One of the most convoluted discussions so far on the subject of eating 'natural foods’ has been about the role of saturated fats in our diet.  Although saturated fats were the most to be blamed,  Natural sources of fat eaten in excess can, of course, be detrimental, but when consumed appropriately can be a real boon to your health! A recent study conducted earlier this year in the suggests that despite what you have been told for decades now. In fact, the researchers of the study went on to claim that Cutting down on carbohydrates instead can further reduce the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes as they can cause blood sugar spikes. Here’s a list of some of the unprocessed top-of-the-line fatty foods that you should invest in for better health: Almonds You’ve got to be ‘nuts’ not a carry a handful of this delicious snack that’s packed with an abundance of goodness and nutrition.

‘Healthy Eating’ has become quite a tedious task because of the availability of hordes of information popping out of literally from everywhere. From billboards to websites, to books, to advertisements, to infomercials—there is no dearth of information on this subject.

bhru.iph.cam.ac.uk

It’s easy, however, to get carried away with the wave of information on offer; especially when it comes to topics such as eating ‘unprocessed foods’ or eating 'natural foods'. The subject has caught on since the time people started looking beyond fad diets and other marketing gimmicks to enhance their well-being.

Natural saturated fats play a vital role when eating unprocessed foods

One of the most convoluted discussions so far on the subject of eating 'natural foods’ has been about the role of saturated fats in our diet. These fats earned a bad rap because of the obesity epidemic that started back in the 20th century and continues to this day.

expertrain.com

Although saturated fats were the most to be blamed, the key element that has often been overlooked is that a lot of the foods we consumed loaded with these fats were processed and packaged foods. The fats in processed foods is severely ‘hydrogenated’, making these foods hazardous to our health.

Natural sources of fat eaten in excess can, of course, be detrimental, but when consumed appropriately can be a real boon to your health!

A recent study conducted earlier this year in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition suggests that the fat found in natural sources of butter, cream, and cheese can be beneficial to your health, despite what you have been told for decades now. The research clearly indicates that including full-fat whole foods can protect you from leading causes of death, such as cardiovascular diseases, Type-2 diabetes, and cancer.

fitzeefoods.com

In fact, the researchers of the study went on to claim that substituting carbohydrates with saturated fats, found mainly in full-fat dairy, meats, and tropical oil, resulted in weight loss and better overall health. Cutting down on carbohydrates instead can further reduce the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes as they can cause blood sugar spikes.

Here’s a list of some of the unprocessed top-of-the-line fatty foods that you should invest in for better health:



Almonds

You’ve got to be ‘nuts’ not a carry a handful of this delicious snack that’s packed with an abundance of goodness and nutrition.

grapplergourmet.com

Don't Miss 10 K SHARES 3.2 K SHARES 1.3 K SHARES 1.8 K SHARES 1.5 K SHARES

The key nutrients

According to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) a handful (a mere 28 grams or a handful) of almonds contains fibre (3.5gm), protein (6gm), fat (14gm), vitamin E (37% of the RDA), Manganese (32% of the RDA), Magnesium (20% of the RDA), 37% of vitamin E, which acts as a potent antioxidant, trace amounts of copper, vitamin B2 (riboflavin) and phosphorus), and 14 grams of healthy unsaturated fat, and 6 grams of protein.

Additionally, studies from both The Journal of Nutrition and The Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry reveal that almond skin is rich in polyphenol antioxidants that prevent the oxidation of cholesterol—a process that attributes to the process of heart disease.

Avocados

Known unofficially as ‘nature’s butter’ because of its smooth, creamy, rich texture, it contains heart-healthy fats, while most other fruits contain carbohydrates primarily.

theheartysoul.com

The key nutrients

According to the USDA, a single serving of about 100 grams contains more potassium (14% of the RDA) as compared to what you get from bananas (10% of the RDA). This also helps support healthy blood pressure levels.

Avocados are also loaded with the monounsaturated fat oleic acid that is a major component of olive oil and is beneficial in reducing inflammation and positively impacts genes linked to cancer. Since they are also highly resistant to heat-induced oxidation they are considered a safe choice for cooking.

Dark chocolate

Yes, the sinful ‘dark chocolate’, not the sugary milky kinds, is derived from cocoa beans and are loaded with nutrients such as iron, calcium, potassium, Vitamin A, E, B, and powerful antioxidants.

healthkart.com

The key nutrients

About 28 grams of Dark chocolate provides around 9 grams of healthy fats, and only around a guilt-free 150 calories. Just make sure you look for dark chocolate with at least 70-90 per cent of pure cocoa in it to reap its full benefits.

In fact, research shows that raw, unprocessed cocoa beans are one of the best free radical fighters amongst other foods out there. A study in the Chemistry Central Journal showed that dark chocolate contained more biologically active antioxidants, polyphenols and flavanols, than in fruits—including blueberries and Acai berries.

Whole eggs

Whole eggs are often touted as ‘nature’s multivitamin’, which is probably why it has the power to turn a single cell into a baby chicken. It used to be neglected in the past as it was often blamed for a spike in cholesterol levels.

suniltulsianifitness.wordpress.com

The key nutrients

Firstly, a single boiled egg can give you a healthy dose of Vitamin A, folate, Vitamin B5, Vitamin B12, Vitamin B2, Phosphorous, Selenium, Vitamin D, Vitamin E, Vitamin K, Vitamin B6, Calcium, and Zinc. This comes in the backdrop of only 77 calories, 6 grams of protein and 5 grams of healthy fats.

Secondly, unlike previously believed, the fact that a single egg contains 212 mg of cholesterol, which is over half the recommended daily intake, helps the liver by allowing it to produce lesser cholesterol every day. Several studies, such as one published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences have shown that eating whole eggs stabilises the overall cholesterol levels in the body.

Salmon

Salmon’s right up there in the seafood department, as one of the best sources of oily fish to consume, as it also tastes fantastic. Apart from providing around 22-25 grams of protein in about a serving of 100 grams, it provides a healthy dose of vitamin B’s, according to the USDA.

traegergrills.com

The key nutrients

The USDA claims up to 2.3-2.6 grams of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids in 100 grams of salmon. Omega-3 fatty acids are considered ‘essential’ because you must get them from your diet, as your body cannot create them by themselves.

Several studies including one’s like the one in the Journal of Nutrition and the journal In Biology, Clinical Medicine and Health have shown Omega-3 fatty acids to reduce inflammation, lower blood pressure, and, reduce the risk of cancer.



Coconut

Replacing olive oil as the healthiest fat on the block, coconut oil, is fast becoming the 'healthy fat' of choice in several households across the world.

ladyironchef.com

The key nutrients

It is one of the only oils made up of up to 90% saturated fats, a type of saturated fat called MCTs or Medium Chain Triglycerides that has several health benefits, according to the USDA. A Meta-analysis conducted by The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition has found no link of MCT with heart disease.

As for its medical properties, the body forms a substance called monolaurin from the lauric acid present in coconut oil. This helps kills harmful bacteria, fungi, and viruses in the system, according to studies in The Journal of Medicinal Foods.

The good news for all those who are in a hurry to lose weight is that the MCTs in coconut oil can increase the number of calories you burn through the day compared to other fats. Up to 5 percent or more, according to The European Journal of Clinical Nutrition.

The key takeaway here

Apart from all the benefits listed above, these saturated fatty foods will help keep you satiated and prevent you from bingeing on any unnecessary carbs or other man-made processed foods loaded with unhealthy saturated fat.

wny-obgyn.com

Try and stick with the within the stipulated 20-30 grams of fat set by the USDA. Also look for organic sources as far as possible to avoid consumption of artificially infected hormones and pesticides.