10 Reasons Why The ‘Average’ Student Is More Successful After Graduation
10 Reasons Why The ‘Average’ Student Is More Successful After Graduation
10 Reasons Why The ‘Average’ Student Is More Successful After Graduation The late 1800’s era seemed to be designed to impart obedience, with the industrial revolution well under way. The number of scholars at that time was a dime and dozen. which put their students through standardised tests to make sure they could be moulded to fit into what society desired. Although time has moved on our mindset remains fixated on that model of education We’re well into the 2000’s, and despite the fact that the world has experienced a dramatic shift in mindset We continue basing our education system on a socialised mindset While the world now has shifted its focus to create a society that is driven by entrepreneurship and innovation,   response calculated ; as explained by Robert Kegan and Lisa Lahey in the book, Immunity to Change. The Internet has changed the way we think about learning and consuming knowledge With the onset of the Internet, which allows you to access any information you need through the copious amount of sources it leads you to,

The late 1800’s era seemed to be designed to impart obedience, with the industrial revolution well under way. The focus of the academic system during those days was to create an obedient and compliant workforce, who would do their jobs without asking too many questions. The number of scholars at that time was a dime and dozen.

chcentralmich.com

This lead to the creation of an education system that itself became similar to a factory-styled-setting, which put their students through standardised tests to make sure they could be moulded to fit into what society desired.

Although time has moved on our mindset remains fixated on that model of education

We’re well into the 2000’s, and despite the fact that the world has experienced a dramatic shift in mindset our education system remains unfazed. There are thousands of teachers giving an identical lecture on a given topic every day across the world.

theodysseyonline.com

We continue basing our education system on a socialised mindset

While the world now has shifted its focus to create a society that is driven by entrepreneurship and innovation, our education system still operates on a ‘socialised’ mindset.

hackeducation.com

A socialised mindset requires the lowest stages of consciousness—one that is needed for an industrial model of development to work. A person with this mindset does best what he or she is told to do, and moulds their behaviour based on what they think others want them to do. Their response can be calculated out of fear based on what they think others what them to do; as explained by Robert Kegan and Lisa Lahey in the book, Immunity to Change.

The Internet has changed the way we think about learning and consuming knowledge

With the onset of the Internet, which allows you to access any information you need through the copious amount of sources it leads you to, the concept of teaching has taken a radical and evolutionary leap.

qbit.com

Over one billion people are set to be working from home come 2020; most of whom will be working as generalists for multiple companies instead of one company as a specialist.

Don't Miss 1.3 K SHARES 10 K SHARES 3.2 K SHARES 1.8 K SHARES 1.5 K SHARES

Our society now demands co-creative leadership and innovate thinking

We are now in an era that needs ‘self-lead’ individuals, rather than ‘socialised’ thinkers, who think independently, take the initiative, make their own mistakes, self-learn, and are willing to share their leadership qualities with others.

leadershiphospitality.com

It’s no surprise then that 21st century needs more artists, creative thinkers, hackers, and innovators now more than ever.

Given this background let’s review why ‘average’ students do better in the real world than their counterparts who fair well in the academic system:

1. They will and have always questioned the validity of the educational system

The average student is not sold on the old factory-style system of education. They see both the bad and the good that comes from it and are more aware of the fact that there are several different modalities outside the recognised systems to learn from.

propublica.org

They see academia as only one approach to learning and hence automatically challenge the status quo.

2. They don’t blindly follow the rules or ideologies

The average student thinks for themselves and doesn't walk any lines before thoroughly evaluating it. They come up with their own agendas, rather than having someone else tell them what to do.

thedawnlitpost.com

They prefer to form their own opinions and ideologies after carefully scrutinising the existing ones.

3. They don’t try to impress their superiors perpetually

The average student love and respect their teachers, but don’t spend their energies trying to impress them. They don’t hold their teachers responsible for their success or failures, and neither do they depend heavily on references or resumes.

bestsampleresume.com

They realise that their work is out there on the Internet for everyone to see and it speaks for itself.

4. They have more important things to worry about

The average student is more obsessed about their future than their grades and hence is more strategic about how they spend their time.

inc.com

While their classmates are investing most of their energy into getting better grades, they are already pursuing or setting up to pursue their dreams, instead of waiting for school to finish before they can begin to manifest them.



5. They define their own success

The average student finds success through internal gratification and not necessarily through external appeasement, such as through good grades. They know that no amount of external success can compare to their own self-awareness and acceptance.

lovebakeenjoy.com

They take pride in knowing themselves, rather than vying for the opinions of the masses. They define their own path to success.

6. They’re good at leveraging other people’s abilities

Instead of trying to do it all by themselves, like their academically sound counterparts, the average student tries to arm themselves with talent around them who can compensate for their weakness.

commons.wikimedia.org

They aren’t afraid to admit that they don’t know it all and prefer not to clutter their mind with unnecessary thought.



7. They prefer setting the direction of their own self-learning

The average student prefers setting their own course of self-learning, instead of being told how to learn or think. They prefer to explore and figure out what they are naturally drawn towards.

wallums.com

Instead of forcing things onto themselves, they tend to follow their passions.

8. They are not succours for perfectionism

The average student focuses on completing a task rather than striving for perfectionism. They realise that perfectionism often leads to procrastination and prefer jumping into whatever they set out to do, learning from their mistakes.

lovebakeenjoy.com

Several successful entrepreneurs fail or struggle in school and understand that their failure has only taught them more.

9. They don’t spend their energy thoughtlessly

An average student understands that their goal is to learn and invest time into things that don't waste their energy and time.

mulpix.com

They don’t often put more energy than what is required. When they do, they are usually efficient, effective, and focused in their approach.

10. They are born daydreamers

While an academic overachievers listen carefully and take notes to be the best prepared for their test, the average student may often spend their time ogling out of the window at the landscape daydreaming about a better world and future.

usnews.com

They are more preoccupied thinking about their bigger plans in life and working out the probabilities to get there.