A History of Chuck Berry's Biggest Billboard Hits
A History of Chuck Berry's Biggest Billboard Hits
A History of Chuck Berry's Biggest Billboard Hits  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  "If you tried to give rock and roll another name, you might call it Chuck Berry ," said John Lennon (at least according to urban legend). The rock pioneer -- who passed away on Mar. 18, 2017 at the age of 90 Â -- impactedÂ the charts over such a long period of time that their names and criteria changed over the course of his career. So, while it's hard to name his hit, here's a chronological list of some of Berry's highlights -- also known as some of the songs that made rock music what it is today.Â Berry's first recorded single (and what's generally cited as one of the first rock songs) spent nine weeks atÂ No. 1 on the R&B chart -- and he only committed it to wax at the behest of Muddy Waters .  The song, a tribute to Hank Williams and favorite of country stars over the years, peaked at No. 8 on the R&B chart. An explicit rebuke of classical music, the track, which peaked at No. 7 on the R&B charts, was eventually covered by everyone from The Beatles to Iron Maiden .  The B-side -- read by some as a comment on racial tensions at the time -- peaked at No. 8 on the R&B chart. One of his biggest tracks ever, the song peaked at No. 3 on the pop chart (the equivalent of today's Hot 100). As the fever for rock n' roll grew, Berry capitalized by making rock songs about rock music -- a tradition that lives on today. This one peaked atÂ No. 6 on the R&B chart. This somewhat questionable track probably sounds familiar -- it's the exact same music as The Beach Boys ' 1963 singleÂ "Surfin' U.S.A." This version, though, still spent three weeks atop the R&B chart and reached No. 2 on the pop chart. This seminal tune, which peaked at No. 5 on the R&B chart and No. 9 on the pop chart, earned a spot on the Voyager Golden Record in (remember Marvin Berry and the Starlighters?) Covered by both The Rolling Stones and The Beatles , this song peaked at No. 9 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. Listen closely: in the background on this track are a young Etta James and Marvin Gaye , helping it eventually peak atÂ No. 3 onÂ Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs.  This track would be covered by Linda Ronstadt Â in 1978, reaching No. 16 on the Hot 100. This influential track (critics have noted its lyrical similarities to Bob Dylan 's , released the following year) peaked at No. 7 on Hot R&B/Hip-Hop songs. This single, which peaked at No. 10 on the Hot 100, was covered by Mos Def , who played Berry in the film (remember Beyonce as Etta James ?) This track, which hit No. 14 on the Hot 100, also became a hit for Emmylou Harris ... and Quentin Tarantino, who featured it in . This novelty track (yes, it's about what you think it's about) spent two weeks atop the Hot 100... what can we say, the '70s must have been a weird time.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

"If you tried to give rock and roll another name, you might call it Chuck Berry," said John Lennon (at least according to urban legend). The rock pioneer -- who passed away on Mar. 18, 2017 at the age of 90Â -- impactedÂ the Billboard charts over such a long period of time that their names and criteria changed over the course of his career. So, while it's hard to name his biggest hit, here's a chronological list of some of Berry's Billboard highlights -- also known as some of the songs that made rock music what it is today.Â

"Maybellene" (1955)

Berry's first recorded single (and what's generally cited as one of the first rock songs) spent nine weeks atÂ No. 1 on the R&B chart -- and he only committed it to wax at the behest of Muddy Waters.

"Thirty DaysÂ (To Come Back Home)" (1956)

The song, a tribute to Hank Williams and favorite of country stars over the years, peaked at No. 8 on the R&B chart.

"Roll Over Beethoven" (1956)

An explicit rebuke of classical music, the track, which peaked at No. 7 on the R&B charts, was eventually covered by everyone from The Beatles to Iron Maiden.

"Brown Eyed Handsome Man" (1957)

The B-side -- read by some as a comment on racial tensions at the time -- peaked at No. 8 on the R&B chart.

"School Day" (1957)

One of his biggest tracks ever, the song peaked at No. 3 on the pop chart (the equivalent of today's Hot 100).

"Rock & Roll Music" (1958)

As the fever for rock n' roll grew, Berry capitalized by making rock songs about rock music -- a tradition that lives on today. This one peaked atÂ No. 6 on the R&B chart.

"Sweet Little Sixteen" (1958)

This somewhat questionable track probably sounds familiar -- it's the exact same music as The Beach Boys' 1963 singleÂ "Surfin' U.S.A." This version, though, still spent three weeks atop the R&B chart and reached No. 2 on the pop chart.

"Johnny B. Goode" (1958)

This seminal tune, which peaked at No. 5 on the R&B chart and No. 9 on the pop chart, earned a spot on the Voyager Golden Record and in Back To The Future (remember Marvin Berry and the Starlighters?)

"Carol" (1959)

Covered by both The Rolling Stones and The Beatles, this song peaked at No. 9 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.

"Almost Grown" (1959)

Listen closely: in the background on this track are a young Etta James and Marvin Gaye, helping it eventually peak atÂ No. 3 onÂ Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs.

"Back in the U.S.A." (1964)

This track would be covered by Linda RonstadtÂ in 1978, reaching No. 16 on the Hot 100.

"Nadine (Is It You?)" (1964)

This influential track (critics have noted its lyrical similarities to Bob Dylan's Bringing It All Back Home, released the following year) peaked at No. 7 on Hot R&B/Hip-Hop songs.

"No Particular Place To Go" (1964)

This single, which peaked at No. 10 on the Hot 100, was covered by Mos Def, who played Berry in the film Cadillac Records (remember Beyonce as Etta James?)

"You Can Never Tell" (1964)

This track, which hit No. 14 on the Hot 100, also became a hit for Emmylou Harris... and Quentin Tarantino, who featured it in Pulp Fiction.

"My Ding-A-Ling" (1972)

This novelty track (yes, it's about what you think it's about) spent two weeks atop the Hot 100... what can we say, the '70s must have been a weird time.