Merkel Challenger Looks to Harness Unruly Party for Election Bid
Merkel Challenger Looks to Harness Unruly Party for Election Bid
Martin Schulz, the German Social Democrat who’s shaping up as Chancellor Angela Merkel’s most serious electoral threat yet, is set to bolster his candidacy by taking over as chairman of the notoriously fractious party. Almost two months after the former European Parliament president emerged as Merkel’s main challenger in the September election, Schulz may offer further hints of his campaign strategy at a party convention on Sunday. He’s looking to sustain the early momentum in the polls that’s lifted the Social Democrats to virtual parity with Merkel’s Christian Democrat-led bloc, which has governed Germany for almost 12 years. Martin Schulz Delegates meeting in Berlin will vote on formally backing Schulz’s candidacy for chancellor and naming him party head. Combining the role of candidate and chairman is seen as a hedge against bickering among the party’s factions, potentially clearing the way for Schulz to focus on campaign themes beyond appealing to the SPD’s base and voters left behind in Germany’s booming economy. “Being a relative outsider has helped and should carry him a little bit further,” Carsten Nickel, an analyst for Teneo Intelligence in Brussels, said by phone. Yet “you have to make some uncomfortable choices” when it comes to crafting a campaign platform, he said. Tallying Support The tally in Sunday’s vote will be a measure of Schulz’s support. Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, who stepped aside as party head in January to make way for Schulz, received only 74 percent support in his last election as SPD chairman in December 2015. Gabriel had earned the wrath of the SPD’s youth organization, which viewed him as too cozy with Merkel. The Social Democrats have been Merkel’s third-term junior coalition partner since 2013 and had the same role in her first government from 2005 to 2009. By contrast, Schulz has energized the party and put Merkel on the defensive, potentially moving the chancellorship within the SPD’s grasp for the first time since Gerhard Schroeder left office in 2005. While the youth organization is lobbying for an SPD-led government with the Greens and the anti-capitalist Left party, Schulz hasn’t ruled out another alliance with Merkel’s bloc. “Whoever wants to govern with us is very much welcome to come forward after the election,” Schulz told the Rheinische Post newspaper in comments published Friday. He ruled out governing with the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany, or AfD. While offering few policy specifics, Schulz has reopened a debate within the SPD about the merits of Agenda 2010, an economic overhaul pushed through by Schroeder more than a decade ago that eased labor-market restrictions and trimmed social programs. In a nod to critics on the left, Schulz is proposing to expand benefits for jobless who agree to retraining. The Social Democrats held steady at 32 percent in a weekly Forsa survey published Wednesday, compared with 21 percent the week that Schulz stepped forward. Merkel’s CDU and its Bavarian CSU allies, who took a combined 41.5 percent in the last election in 2013, polled 33 percent. The March 6-10 survey of 2,505 people has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.

Martin Schulz, the German Social Democrat who’s shaping up as Chancellor Angela Merkel’s most serious electoral threat yet, is set to bolster his candidacy by taking over as chairman of the notoriously fractious party.

The most important business stories of the day. Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.

Almost two months after the former European Parliament president emerged as Merkel’s main challenger in the September election, Schulz may offer further hints of his campaign strategy at a party convention on Sunday. He’s looking to sustain the early momentum in the polls that’s lifted the Social Democrats to virtual parity with Merkel’s Christian Democrat-led bloc, which has governed Germany for almost 12 years.

Martin Schulz Photographer: Krisztian Bocsi/Bloomberg

Delegates meeting in Berlin will vote on formally backing Schulz’s candidacy for chancellor and naming him party head. Combining the role of candidate and chairman is seen as a hedge against bickering among the party’s factions, potentially clearing the way for Schulz to focus on campaign themes beyond appealing to the SPD’s base and voters left behind in Germany’s booming economy.

“Being a relative outsider has helped and should carry him a little bit further,” Carsten Nickel, an analyst for Teneo Intelligence in Brussels, said by phone. Yet “you have to make some uncomfortable choices” when it comes to crafting a campaign platform, he said.

Tallying Support

The tally in Sunday’s vote will be a measure of Schulz’s support. Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, who stepped aside as party head in January to make way for Schulz, received only 74 percent support in his last election as SPD chairman in December 2015.

Gabriel had earned the wrath of the SPD’s youth organization, which viewed him as too cozy with Merkel. The Social Democrats have been Merkel’s third-term junior coalition partner since 2013 and had the same role in her first government from 2005 to 2009.

By contrast, Schulz has energized the party and put Merkel on the defensive, potentially moving the chancellorship within the SPD’s grasp for the first time since Gerhard Schroeder left office in 2005. While the youth organization is lobbying for an SPD-led government with the Greens and the anti-capitalist Left party, Schulz hasn’t ruled out another alliance with Merkel’s bloc.

“Whoever wants to govern with us is very much welcome to come forward after the election,” Schulz told the Rheinische Post newspaper in comments published Friday. He ruled out governing with the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany, or AfD.

While offering few policy specifics, Schulz has reopened a debate within the SPD about the merits of Agenda 2010, an economic overhaul pushed through by Schroeder more than a decade ago that eased labor-market restrictions and trimmed social programs. In a nod to critics on the left, Schulz is proposing to expand benefits for jobless who agree to retraining.

The Social Democrats held steady at 32 percent in a weekly Forsa survey published Wednesday, compared with 21 percent the week that Schulz stepped forward. Merkel’s CDU and its Bavarian CSU allies, who took a combined 41.5 percent in the last election in 2013, polled 33 percent. The March 6-10 survey of 2,505 people has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.5 percentage points.