Over One Million Indian Muslims Sign Petition To Ban Triple Talaq
Over One Million Indian Muslims Sign Petition To Ban Triple Talaq
Over One Million Indian Muslims Sign Petition To Ban Triple Talaq A large section of Muslim community has begun to raise its voice against the practice of triple talaq (a form of divorce) and this time more than one million Muslims - both men and women - have signed a petition to end the controversial divorce practice of triple talaq. Also Read: Govt Asks Supreme Court To Decide If Polygamy And Triple Talaq Are Constitutionally Valid Or Not According to the Quran, a man must consider his decision for a period of three months after he initially declared talaq, and divorce is only granted after the remaining two "talaqs" are stated. A petition in this regard was started by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM), an Islamic organization affiliated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), reports CNN, adding that the positive response to the petition has been linked with the Bharatiya Janata Patry's recent success in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections. The BJP won in a landslide, taking 312 seats out of a total of 403, the biggest majority for any party in Uttar Pradesh since 1980. Muslims make up 18.5% of Uttar Pradesh's 200 million-strong population, the largest state in India, suggests the recent census. Also Read: Law Minister Says India Now Set To Ban Triple Talaq, Calls It A 'Social Evil' Several women have filed a petition before the Supreme Court seeking the quashing of the triple talaq practice. The Central Government has also told the top court that it is against gender injustice and for equality between men and women under the Constitution. However, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) has defended the practice, saying it is better to divorce a woman than kill her. "The rights bestowed by religion can't be questioned in a court of law," it said. Also Read: While 'Triple Talaq' Leaves Muslim Women Vulnerable, Women In Other Faiths Too Bear Divorce Brunt Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asserted that he favoured the discontinuation of 'triple talaq', stating that "lives of Muslim women cannot be allowed to be destroyed by triple talaq." He also targeted the opposition for ‘politicising’ the issue and supporting a gender-discriminatory practice to appease their vote banks.

A large section of Muslim community has begun to raise its voice against the practice of triple talaq (a form of divorce) and this time more than one million Muslims - both men and women - have signed a petition to end the controversial divorce practice of triple talaq.

AFP/Representational Image

Also Read: Govt Asks Supreme Court To Decide If Polygamy And Triple Talaq Are Constitutionally Valid Or Not

According to the Quran, a man must consider his decision for a period of three months after he initially declared talaq, and divorce is only granted after the remaining two "talaqs" are stated.

A petition in this regard was started by the Muslim Rashtriya Manch (MRM), an Islamic organization affiliated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), reports CNN, adding that the positive response to the petition has been linked with the Bharatiya Janata Patry's recent success in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly Elections.

The BJP won in a landslide, taking 312 seats out of a total of 403, the biggest majority for any party in Uttar Pradesh since 1980. Muslims make up 18.5% of Uttar Pradesh's 200 million-strong population, the largest state in India, suggests the recent census.

PTI/ Representative Image

Also Read: Law Minister Says India Now Set To Ban Triple Talaq, Calls It A 'Social Evil'

Several women have filed a petition before the Supreme Court seeking the quashing of the triple talaq practice. The Central Government has also told the top court that it is against gender injustice and for equality between men and women under the Constitution.

However, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) has defended the practice, saying it is better to divorce a woman than kill her.

"The rights bestowed by religion can't be questioned in a court of law," it said.

PTI/ Representative Image

Also Read: While 'Triple Talaq' Leaves Muslim Women Vulnerable, Women In Other Faiths Too Bear Divorce Brunt

Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asserted that he favoured the discontinuation of 'triple talaq', stating that "lives of Muslim women cannot be allowed to be destroyed by triple talaq."

He also targeted the opposition for ‘politicising’ the issue and supporting a gender-discriminatory practice to appease their vote banks.

Don't Miss 2.1 K SHARES 38.3 K SHARES 25.7 K SHARES 16.9 K SHARES 16.3 K SHARES

Inputs From ANI