'Trump Sheriff' Threatens Mayor, Scorns Him For Getting His A** Kicked Aiding Woman
'Trump Sheriff' Scorns Milwaukee Mayor For Getting His A** Kicked Aiding Grandma
Milwaukee’s hard-right sheriff, David Clarke , a campaign surrogate for Donald Trump , has publicly threatened and derided the Democratic mayor for “getting his ass kicked” when the politician rushed to the aid of an older woman under attack. Mayor Tom Barrett was viciously beaten when he helped protect a grandmother and her year-old grandson in 2009 as they were attacked at a state fair by a disturbed man. Clarke lashed out at Barrett over the seven-year-old confrontation after the mayor complained that Clarke was often missing from his post because he’s too busy boosting his career as a high-profile Trump supporter on conservative talk shows and plugging his new book. “The last time Tom Barrett showed up at a crime scene he got his ass kicked by a drunk, tire-iron-wielding man who beat him within inches of his life,” Clarke ranted in a post on the official Facebook site for the Milwaukee County Sheriff’s Office. “The milquetoast mayor trying to play cop foolishly thought he could simply talk the man who beat him senseless into backing down.” Clarke concluded ominously: “Time to crawl back into your hole, Tom, unless you want some more of this because I have some.” Thousands of Milwaukee residents have poured into the streets to protest the controversial sheriff, who has blamed people for dying in his jails , warned that if Trump lost the election it would be time for “ pitchforks and torches ” and called Trump protesters “ radical anarchists” who must be “quelled.” He’s also a major opponent of the Black Lives Matter movement , even though he is African-American. Before long, Black Lies Matter will join forces with ISIS to being down our legal constituted republic. You heard it first here. Barrett set Clarke off when he said in a TV interview earlier this week that the sheriff has a “great gig going right now: He’s fighting crime one conservative cable TV show at a time.” He said everyone knows that Clarke “ rode his horse out of town a long time ago.” Barrett’s chief of staff told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel that Clarke “ crossed the line ” with his Facebook post, calling his derision of the mayor’s aid during the state fair violence “unconscionable.” The louder-than-life sheriff, who often sports a cowboy hat, met with Trump at Trump Tower in Manhattan late last year when the then-president-elect was said to be considering him to head up the Department of Homeland Security . Supporters are now laying the groundwork for a possible run for the U.S. senate in 2018. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Awkward Meeting for Merkel and Trump       Share this slide:       MORE:

Milwaukee’s hard-right sheriff, David Clarke, a campaign surrogate for Donald Trump, has publicly threatened and derided the Democratic mayor for “getting his ass kicked” when the politician rushed to the aid of an older woman under attack.

Mayor Tom Barrett was viciously beaten when he helped protect a grandmother and her year-old grandson in 2009 as they were attacked at a state fair by a disturbed man.

Clarke lashed out at Barrett over the seven-year-old confrontation after the mayor complained that Clarke was often missing from his post because he’s too busy boosting his career as a high-profile Trump supporter on conservative talk shows and plugging his new book.

“The last time Tom Barrett showed up at a crime scene he got his ass kicked by a drunk, tire-iron-wielding man who beat him within inches of his life,” Clarke ranted in a post on the official Facebook site for the Milwaukee County Sheriff’s Office. “The milquetoast mayor trying to play cop foolishly thought he could simply talk the man who beat him senseless into backing down.”

Clarke concluded ominously: “Time to crawl back into your hole, Tom, unless you want some more of this because I have some.”

Before long, Black Lies Matter will join forces with ISIS to being down our legal constituted republic. You heard it first here. — David A. Clarke, Jr. (@SheriffClarke) October 28, 2015

Barrett set Clarke off when he said in a TV interview earlier this week that the sheriff has a “great gig going right now: He’s fighting crime one conservative cable TV show at a time.” He said everyone knows that Clarke “rode his horse out of town a long time ago.”

Barrett’s chief of staff told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel that Clarke “crossed the line” with his Facebook post, calling his derision of the mayor’s aid during the state fair violence “unconscionable.”