Review: ‘Come From Away,’ a Canadian Embrace on a Grim Day
Review: ‘Come From Away,’ a Canadian Embrace on a Grim Day
Try, if you must, to resist the gale of good will that blows out of “Come From Away,” the big bearhug of a musical that opened on Sunday night at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theater. But even the most stalwart cynics may have trouble staying dry-eyed during this portrait of heroic hospitality under extraordinary pressure. “Come From Away” — set, you should know, on and after the world-shaking date of Sept. 11, 2001 — pushes so many emotional buttons that you wind up feeling like an accordion. That does not mean that you’ll leave thinking you have been played. For this Canadian-born production , written by Irene Sankoff and David Hein and directed by Christopher Ashley, is as honorable in its intentions as it is forthright in its sentimentality. And it may provide just the catharsis you need in an American moment notorious for dishonorable and divisive behavior. “Come From Away” sounds like a show that most New Yorkers would run a city mile to avoid. I mean, come on guys, a feel-good 9/11 musical created by a husband-and-wife team whose most notable previous credit was something called “My Mother’s Lesbian Jewish Wiccan Wedding”? That’s a self-spoofing concept that might have come up in a “ Saturday Night Live ” brainstorming session, and been rejected on the grounds of bad taste. Advertisement Still, timing is to theater openings what location is to real estate pitches. (Remember, that dancing klutzburger “Mamma Mia!” became the perfect escapist hit in the fall of 2001.) Even a few years ago, “Come From Away” — which portrays the efforts of a town on Newfoundland island to accommodate the 6,700 travelers whose planes were diverted there after the 9/11 attacks — might not even have made it to Broadway. Advertisement But we are now in a moment in which millions of immigrants are homeless and denied entry to increasingly xenophobic nations, including the United States. A tale of an insular populace that doesn’t think twice before opening its arms to an international throng of strangers automatically acquires a near-utopian nimbus. So does the reminder that there was a time when much of the Western world united in the face of catastrophe. And when politicians who have since become the butts of jaded jokes (hey there, Rudolph Giuliani and Tony Blair) stood tall as leaders of substance. It is telling that when, in “Come From Away,” an actor briefly impersonates George W. Bush, delivering a broadcast announcement, there’s not a titter from the audience. This is a show without a satirical bone in its robust, rough-hewed body. Advertisement That body is also surprisingly agile. Mr. Ashley and his musical staging director, Kelly Devine, have steered their multicast, 12-member ensemble through a rushing, sung-and-spoken narrative that has them changing parts (and accents) on a Canadian dime. The performers are required to embody the good citizens of Gander (and nearby villages), a small town with a big airport in Northeast Canada, where 38 planes were forced to land after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The same cast plays passengers and crew members on those flights, who find themselves stranded in Gander. Advertisement They inhabit a set (designed by Beowulf Boritt) populated by tall trees, simple wooden furniture and a folksy onstage band that could easily do double duty for a “Riverdance” reunion. Ms. Sankoff and Mr. Hein, who wrote the music as well as the book and lyrics, know that there’s nothing like a steady Gaelic drumbeat and a lilting pennywhistle to turn a skeptical audience into Pavlov’s slobbering dogs. Does this description make you think of that blockbuster tear-jerker “Titanic” and its wailing theme song “ My Heart Will Go On” ? The creators of “Come From Away” are way ahead of you. They quote from that number early in the show, when the movie is screened to grounded airline passengers and then later in a karaoke sequence in a Legion hall. Advertisement “Come From Away,” in other words, is smarter than it first appears. The show starts off in a grating key of deep earnestness, as a chorus of Ganderians step to the edge of the stage to deliver an anthem of hearty regional identity. (“They say no man is an island, but an island makes a man.”) Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy But as it proceeds, the show — based on interviews with the people who inspired it — covers a vast expanse of sensitive material with a respect for its complexity. It understands that much of what it portrays is guaranteed to stir fraught memories among many of us. And it mostly refrains from overegging what could have been a treacly, tear-salted pudding. Advertisement Instead, it sustains an air of improvisational urgency, which feels appropriate to a show about making do in crisis, and it doesn’t linger on obvious moments of heartbreak and humanity. (My favorite instance of a Newfoundlander reaching out comes when a woman, played by Kendra Kassebaum, says: “Thank you for coming to Walmart. Would you like to come back to my house for a shower?”) This is true whether the cast is simulating the terror of emergency landings, or the agitated briskness of citizens arranging food and lodging for an onslaught that almost doubles their town’s population. Amid the surreal blur of activity, people fall in love, break up, learn of the deaths of loved ones and realize that the world will never, ever look the same again. Advertisement The performers — who include the appealing Broadway veterans Jenn Colella, Chad Kimball and Rodney Hicks — refreshingly come in assorted shapes, sizes, ages and skin tones. As both Newfoundlanders and their visitors, they manage to convey clearly separate, idiosyncratic identities. Are there moments that feel a little too heartwarming, like a rustic Canadian bar’s reflexive acceptance of a gay couple (Mr. Kimball and Caesar Samayoa) who nervously wander in? Sure. But the show also makes room for lingering prejudices — most notably regarding Muslims — and the sense that the altruism that arises in a crisis may evaporate as soon as the crisis is over. In recent months, some Americans have spoken wistfully (and unrealistically) of moving to Canada, where people are kinder, gentler, more accepting of others. “Come From Away” allows you to make that move for an eventful 100 minutes. But it also reminds us that the fellow feeling and good behavior of the days it portrays belongs to an isolated island in time. What follows is the sobering awareness, as one song has it, that as the afterglow recedes, “wherever you are, something’s gone.” A listing of credits on Monday with a theater review of the musical “Come From Away” misidentified the music arranger. He is Ian Eisendrath, who also supervised the music — not August Eriksmoen, who is responsible for the orchestrations. A version of this review appears in print on March 13, 2017, on Page C1 of the with the headline: An Embrace on a Grim Day.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

But we are now in a moment in which millions of immigrants are homeless and denied entry to increasingly xenophobic nations, including the United States. A tale of an insular populace that doesn’t think twice before opening its arms to an international throng of strangers automatically acquires a near-utopian nimbus.

Photo

So does the reminder that there was a time when much of the Western world united in the face of catastrophe. And when politicians who have since become the butts of jaded jokes (hey there, Rudolph Giuliani and Tony Blair) stood tall as leaders of substance.

It is telling that when, in “Come From Away,” an actor briefly impersonates George W. Bush, delivering a broadcast announcement, there’s not a titter from the audience. This is a show without a satirical bone in its robust, rough-hewed body.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That body is also surprisingly agile. Mr. Ashley and his musical staging director, Kelly Devine, have steered their multicast, 12-member ensemble through a rushing, sung-and-spoken narrative that has them changing parts (and accents) on a Canadian dime.

The performers are required to embody the good citizens of Gander (and nearby villages), a small town with a big airport in Northeast Canada, where 38 planes were forced to land after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. The same cast plays passengers and crew members on those flights, who find themselves stranded in Gander.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They inhabit a set (designed by Beowulf Boritt) populated by tall trees, simple wooden furniture and a folksy onstage band that could easily do double duty for a “Riverdance” reunion. Ms. Sankoff and Mr. Hein, who wrote the music as well as the book and lyrics, know that there’s nothing like a steady Gaelic drumbeat and a lilting pennywhistle to turn a skeptical audience into Pavlov’s slobbering dogs.

Does this description make you think of that blockbuster tear-jerker “Titanic” and its wailing theme song “My Heart Will Go On”? The creators of “Come From Away” are way ahead of you. They quote from that number early in the show, when the movie is screened to grounded airline passengers and then later in a karaoke sequence in a Legion hall.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Come From Away,” in other words, is smarter than it first appears. The show starts off in a grating key of deep earnestness, as a chorus of Ganderians step to the edge of the stage to deliver an anthem of hearty regional identity. (“They say no man is an island, but an island makes a man.”)

Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

But as it proceeds, the show — based on interviews with the people who inspired it — covers a vast expanse of sensitive material with a respect for its complexity. It understands that much of what it portrays is guaranteed to stir fraught memories among many of us. And it mostly refrains from overegging what could have been a treacly, tear-salted pudding.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Instead, it sustains an air of improvisational urgency, which feels appropriate to a show about making do in crisis, and it doesn’t linger on obvious moments of heartbreak and humanity. (My favorite instance of a Newfoundlander reaching out comes when a woman, played by Kendra Kassebaum, says: “Thank you for coming to Walmart. Would you like to come back to my house for a shower?”)

This is true whether the cast is simulating the terror of emergency landings, or the agitated briskness of citizens arranging food and lodging for an onslaught that almost doubles their town’s population. Amid the surreal blur of activity, people fall in love, break up, learn of the deaths of loved ones and realize that the world will never, ever look the same again.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The performers — who include the appealing Broadway veterans Jenn Colella, Chad Kimball and Rodney Hicks — refreshingly come in assorted shapes, sizes, ages and skin tones. As both Newfoundlanders and their visitors, they manage to convey clearly separate, idiosyncratic identities.

Are there moments that feel a little too heartwarming, like a rustic Canadian bar’s reflexive acceptance of a gay couple (Mr. Kimball and Caesar Samayoa) who nervously wander in? Sure. But the show also makes room for lingering prejudices — most notably regarding Muslims — and the sense that the altruism that arises in a crisis may evaporate as soon as the crisis is over.

In recent months, some Americans have spoken wistfully (and unrealistically) of moving to Canada, where people are kinder, gentler, more accepting of others. “Come From Away” allows you to make that move for an eventful 100 minutes.

But it also reminds us that the fellow feeling and good behavior of the days it portrays belongs to an isolated island in time. What follows is the sobering awareness, as one song has it, that as the afterglow recedes, “wherever you are, something’s gone.”

Come From Away NYT Critics’ Pick Gerald Schoenfeld Theater 236 W. 45th St. Midtown West 212-239-6200 Find Tickets Category Broadway, Musical Runtime 1 hr. and 40 min. Credits Book, music and lyrics by Irene Sankoff and David Hein; Directed by Christopher Ashley Cast Petrina Bromley, Geno Carr, Jenn Colella, Joel Hatch, Rodney Hicks, Kendra Kassebaum, Chad Kimball, Lee MacDougall, Caesar Samayoa, Q. Smith, Astrid Van Wieren and Sharon Wheatley Preview February 18, 2017 Opened March 12, 2017 Closing Open Run Upcoming Shows Sunday March 19 3:00 PM Tuesday March 21 7:00 PM Wednesday March 22 2:00 PM Wednesday March 22 8:00 PM Thursday March 23 7:00 PM This information was last updated: Oct. 17, 2016