Chelsea Clinton joins Expedia board of directors
Chelsea Clinton joins Expedia board of directors
Shares                Chelsea Clinton is joining the board of directors of online travel booking site Expedia. Documents filed with securities regulators say the daughter of defeated U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has joined its 14-member board. The company is controlled by Barry Diller. Chelsea Clinton is also a director of another company that Diller controls, IAC /InterActiveCorp. Expedia did not disclose how much she would be paid, but non-employee directors each earned more than $250,000 in 2015, according to the most recent regulatory filings. Filings for IAC say Chelsea Clinton is entitled to receive $300,000 in a mix of stock and cash each year for serving as a director. The Expedia filing on Friday came a day after publishers Penguin Young Readers announced it will publish a children's book by Chelsea Clinton on May 30. The book is called "She Persisted." In the book, Clinton will honor 13 American women "who never take no for an answer," including Harriet Tubman, Sonia Sotomayor and Oprah Winfrey. Shares                  Chelsea Clinton joins Expedia board of directors   Hundreds of tips pour in as cops hunt former teacher accused of kidnapping 15-year-old student   Russia orders check of American media in the country in retaliation for U.S. bill   North Korea tests newly developed high-thrust rocket engine   Appeals court refuses to stop oil in Dakota Access pipeline   In Appalachia, Trump's proposed budget has people worried   Ex-trooper charged in 2014 shooting death of pregnant wife   More victims come forward in Marine nude photo scandal   In Beijing, Tillerson urges China-US cooperation on N. Korea   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Officials: Woman shot by Tennessee deputies had a BB gun   Pope Francis to visit Egypt in April as dialogue improves   Accused White House fence jumper was on grounds for 16 minutes: Secret Service   Secret Service laptop with Trump Tower floor plans stolen in New York   In Minnesota, Somali community fears Trump travel ban, aid cuts will worsen their country   Travel ban fight personal for Hawaii's 'scholarly gentleman'   Police search home on property where slain Indiana teens were found   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   J.C. Penney lists the 138 stores it is planning to shutter   A timeline of Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping claims   William and Kate continued Paris tour undeterred by airport shooting incident   Comedian Artie Lange arrested over drug possession   Suzanne Somers looks back on 40 years of 'Three's Company'

Chelsea Clinton is joining the board of directors of online travel booking site Expedia.

Documents filed with securities regulators say the daughter of defeated U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton has joined its 14-member board. The company is controlled by Barry Diller. Chelsea Clinton is also a director of another company that Diller controls, IAC/InterActiveCorp.

Expedia did not disclose how much she would be paid, but non-employee directors each earned more than $250,000 in 2015, according to the most recent regulatory filings.

Filings for IAC say Chelsea Clinton is entitled to receive $300,000 in a mix of stock and cash each year for serving as a director.

The Expedia filing on Friday came a day after publishers Penguin Young Readers announced it will publish a children's book by Chelsea Clinton on May 30. The book is called "She Persisted."

In the book, Clinton will honor 13 American women "who never take no for an answer," including Harriet Tubman, Sonia Sotomayor and Oprah Winfrey.