The week in TV: Big Little Lies; War Child; The Replacement and more

( Sky Atlantic ) (Channel 4) | All 4 (BBC1) | iPlayer (Channel 4) | All 4 If it’s a crime for a new drama series to be overly star-studded, then the new David E Kelley adaptation of the Liane Moriarty novel is in the dock and the judge has got a black cap on. In a story transplanted from Australia to high-maintenance Monterey, California, barely a scene goes by without some famous face jarringly lurching into view – Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Alexander Skarsgård, Laura Dern, Zoe Kravitz… stop, already! It was like a cross between snooping at Kelley’s iPhone contacts, and a red-carpet event where everyone had been instructed to dress smart-casual and sip chilled chablis in an unnecessarily peeved manner. Such distractions were unhelpful when the drama was already a confusing sub- melange of family drama, murder mystery and exposé of the underbelly of the American dream (translation: rich people dressed in Michael Kors whingeing about how hard they have it). Somewhat unfeasibly, a shy, impoverished newcomer with a secret (Shailene Woodley) was sucked straight into the heart of the chic friendship group, even though it was abundantly clear that her wardrobe, kitchen gadgets and modest demeanour simply wouldn’t be up to it. In a busy, overstuffed, frankly irritating opening episode, general puzzlement wasn’t abated by the fact that the murder mystery included the mystery of who’d actually been murdered. Viewers heard the victim gasping their last and saw ambulances arrive in the opening scenes, but, after that it was all dislocated police interviews with sniping witnesses, who appeared to have been briefed with the mantra “If you can’t say anything nice… say it anyway.” All you could do was guess who’d been killed, or perhaps choose a character you’d quite like to be killed – pert busybody Madeline (Witherspoon, bringing edge to a domestic part), career woman Renata (a furiously snappy Dern), or simpering, vanilla Celeste (played by Kidman as though she were channelling a scented candle). My personal choice to be offed would be Celeste’s husband Perry (Skarsgård). It was quite bad enough when the couple engaged in a series of nauseating, syrupy PDAs. However, towards the end of the episode, during an argument, Perry grabbed Celeste in a rough controlling way that hinted at darker, more intriguing developments to come. was the latest documentary by director Jamie Roberts ( ). The featured children – Emran and Hussein (11 and 12 respectively, from Afghanistan), and Rawan (12, from Aleppo, Syria), were charming and articulate, displaying the courage and forbearance that most adults would doubtless struggle to possess, especially if they were indefinitely marooned on the Greek-Macedonian border, or in Rawan and her family’s case, kidnapped by people-smugglers, which appeared to be an occupational hazard of being a refugee. Roberts wisely allowed the children to provide most of the impetus, humanising their stories, but also slowly breaking your heart. There are an estimated 100,000 unaccompanied child refugees trying to find safe haven in Europe, many of whom are completely alone, or missing. While all the children in this important documentary ended up being helped, even they were forced to navigate a toxic mess of borders, barbed wire, armed men, smugglers, hatred, anger, prejudice and danger. At one point, Emran and his friends boisterously played “the refugee game”, where one of the children was caught and sat down in the road before being “expelled”. Here was a scene to shame the world. The denouement of BBC1’s maternity-leave chiller provoked its own great existential question: “Are any of these so-called architects ever going to pick up an HB pencil and actually do some work?” Throughout this series, we’ve kept on hearing about how talented both the warring colleagues are, but, so far as I can make out, all they’ve discussed is one measly skylight (the one their female boss fell to her death through), and they’ve barely doodled so much as a stickman between them. In real life, the boss (Dougray Scott) would probably have sacked them both. As has been their habit throughout the three-parter, Ellen (Morven Christie) and Paula (Vicky McClure) chose to spend all their time hard-staring each other through the office’s giant window panes. Such scenes vibrated with a distinctly unsisterly menace, one which suggested that writer-director Joe Ahearne had neglected to consult the Feminist Screenwriting Guidelines 2017. The effect was only slightly undermined by McClure’s over-zealous makeup, featuring such industrial levels of lip gloss there was a real danger that her teeth might slide straight off her face. This last episode was somewhat chaotic. The plot was so full of gaps that I was half-expecting to see Professor Brian Cox appear in the office to give a lecture about black holes. When Paula was finally outed as the baddie, it was slightly less surprising than the end of an episode of . Indeed, by this time, the story had disintegrated into an overheated muddle of exclamation marks-cum-question marks over infidelity, infertility, mourned children, unrequited love, stolen baby baskets, and hot-wired cars. For all that, I thoroughly enjoyed : great cast, refreshingly set in Glasgow, nice stab at some good old-fashioned melodrama, and what’s not to love about a story featuring two strong female protagonists that doesn’t revolve around them fighting over a man? covered the story that mystified the nation , when the body of an unknown man was discovered on Saddleworth Moor. Christened “Neil Dovestone” by the police (the body was found near Dovestone reservoir), the man had no ID, and was carrying a thyroid medication bottle that contained the strychnine that killed him. In the end, the man was revealed to be 67-year-old David Lytton, a former tube train driver and a loner by nature, who’d returned to Britain after a lengthy period in Pakistan. By the end of the documentary, nobody seemed any clearer about whether Lytton had committed suicide, or been tricked into taking the poison. While Lytton’s story was tragic, and the grief of his brother was palpable, this was also a tale for our over-monitored times. It says something that, shocking and strange though this death was, Lytton’s complete lack of ID was deemed just as peculiar. When someone remarked that Lytton moved though train station footage like a ghost, in a way, it also seemed true of his attitude to life.  Nicole Kidman   Observer TV reviews   Reese Witherspoon   Shailene Woodley   Alexander Skarsgård   Refugees   Vicky McClure   reviews

Big Little Lies (Sky Atlantic)

War Child (Channel 4) | All 4

The Replacement (BBC1) | iPlayer

Mystery of the Man on the Moor (Channel 4) | All 4

All you could do was guess who'd been killed, or choose a character you'd quite like to be killed

If it’s a crime for a new drama series to be overly star-studded, then the new David E Kelley adaptation of the Liane Moriarty novel Big Little Lies is in the dock and the judge has got a black cap on. In a story transplanted from Australia to high-maintenance Monterey, California, barely a scene goes by without some famous face jarringly lurching into view – Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Alexander Skarsgård, Laura Dern, Zoe Kravitz… stop, already! It was like a cross between snooping at Kelley’s iPhone contacts, and a red-carpet event where everyone had been instructed to dress smart-casual and sip chilled chablis in an unnecessarily peeved manner.

Such distractions were unhelpful when the drama was already a confusing sub-Desperate Housewives melange of family drama, murder mystery and exposé of the underbelly of the American dream (translation: rich people dressed in Michael Kors whingeing about how hard they have it). Somewhat unfeasibly, a shy, impoverished newcomer with a secret (Shailene Woodley) was sucked straight into the heart of the chic friendship group, even though it was abundantly clear that her wardrobe, kitchen gadgets and modest demeanour simply wouldn’t be up to it.

In a busy, overstuffed, frankly irritating opening episode, general puzzlement wasn’t abated by the fact that the murder mystery included the mystery of who’d actually been murdered. Viewers heard the victim gasping their last and saw ambulances arrive in the opening scenes, but, after that it was all dislocated police interviews with sniping witnesses, who appeared to have been briefed with the mantra “If you can’t say anything nice… say it anyway.” All you could do was guess who’d been killed, or perhaps choose a character you’d quite like to be killed – pert busybody Madeline (Witherspoon, bringing edge to a domestic part), career woman Renata (a furiously snappy Dern), or simpering, vanilla Celeste (played by Kidman as though she were channelling a scented candle). My personal choice to be offed would be Celeste’s husband Perry (Skarsgård). It was quite bad enough when the couple engaged in a series of nauseating, syrupy PDAs. However, towards the end of the episode, during an argument, Perry grabbed Celeste in a rough controlling way that hinted at darker, more intriguing developments to come.

War Child was the latest documentary by director Jamie Roberts (The Jihadis Next Door). The featured children – Emran and Hussein (11 and 12 respectively, from Afghanistan), and Rawan (12, from Aleppo, Syria), were charming and articulate, displaying the courage and forbearance that most adults would doubtless struggle to possess, especially if they were indefinitely marooned on the Greek-Macedonian border, or in Rawan and her family’s case, kidnapped by people-smugglers, which appeared to be an occupational hazard of being a refugee.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Emran (left) and Hussein, two of the subjects of War Child. Photograph: Pro Co/Channel 4

Roberts wisely allowed the children to provide most of the impetus, humanising their stories, but also slowly breaking your heart. There are an estimated 100,000 unaccompanied child refugees trying to find safe haven in Europe, many of whom are completely alone, or missing. While all the children in this important documentary ended up being helped, even they were forced to navigate a toxic mess of borders, barbed wire, armed men, smugglers, hatred, anger, prejudice and danger. At one point, Emran and his friends boisterously played “the refugee game”, where one of the children was caught and sat down in the road before being “expelled”. Here was a scene to shame the world.

The denouement of BBC1’s maternity-leave chiller The Replacement provoked its own great existential question: “Are any of these so-called architects ever going to pick up an HB pencil and actually do some work?” Throughout this series, we’ve kept on hearing about how talented both the warring colleagues are, but, so far as I can make out, all they’ve discussed is one measly skylight (the one their female boss fell to her death through), and they’ve barely doodled so much as a stickman between them.

In real life, the boss (Dougray Scott) would probably have sacked them both. As has been their habit throughout the three-parter, Ellen (Morven Christie) and Paula (Vicky McClure) chose to spend all their time hard-staring each other through the office’s giant window panes. Such scenes vibrated with a distinctly unsisterly menace, one which suggested that writer-director Joe Ahearne had neglected to consult the Feminist Screenwriting Guidelines 2017. The effect was only slightly undermined by McClure’s over-zealous makeup, featuring such industrial levels of lip gloss there was a real danger that her teeth might slide straight off her face.

This last episode was somewhat chaotic. The plot was so full of gaps that I was half-expecting to see Professor Brian Cox appear in the office to give a lecture about black holes. When Paula was finally outed as the baddie, it was slightly less surprising than the end of an episode of Scooby-Doo. Indeed, by this time, the story had disintegrated into an overheated muddle of exclamation marks-cum-question marks over infidelity, infertility, mourned children, unrequited love, stolen baby baskets, and hot-wired cars. For all that, I thoroughly enjoyed The Replacement: great cast, refreshingly set in Glasgow, nice stab at some good old-fashioned melodrama, and what’s not to love about a story featuring two strong female protagonists that doesn’t revolve around them fighting over a man?

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Morven Christie and Vicky McClure in The Replacement. Photograph: Mark Mainz/BBC/Left Bank

Mystery of the Man on the Moor covered the story that mystified the nation, when the body of an unknown man was discovered on Saddleworth Moor. Christened “Neil Dovestone” by the police (the body was found near Dovestone reservoir), the man had no ID, and was carrying a thyroid medication bottle that contained the strychnine that killed him. In the end, the man was revealed to be 67-year-old David Lytton, a former tube train driver and a loner by nature, who’d returned to Britain after a lengthy period in Pakistan. By the end of the documentary, nobody seemed any clearer about whether Lytton had committed suicide, or been tricked into taking the poison. While Lytton’s story was tragic, and the grief of his brother was palpable, this was also a tale for our over-monitored times. It says something that, shocking and strange though this death was, Lytton’s complete lack of ID was deemed just as peculiar. When someone remarked that Lytton moved though train station footage like a ghost, in a way, it also seemed true of his attitude to life.