Louisiana sheriff's deputy shot, killed while on-duty
Louisiana sheriff's deputy shot, killed while on-duty
Police and Law Enforcement Louisiana sheriff's deputy shot, killed while on-duty   A Louisiana sheriff's deputy was shot and killed late Saturday night while conducting an investigation near a Baton Rouge movie theater, officials said. A suspect was also injured during the incident. No names were given and no details on the original investigation immediately emerged. The East Baton Rouge Sheriff's Office deputy was rushed to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead. He was on assignment with another deputy when the episode occurred. “It’s a tragic night for the East Baton Rouge Sheriff’s Office," said Casey Hicks, the public information director for the East Baton Rouge Sheriff's Department. "...We’re focused on working with the family, praying with the family, and making sure that our deputies have the help and support they need." The Louisiana State Police were set to conduct an investigation into the deputy's death. “I think we are a very praying community and I think that thoughts and prayers are needed here and we come together just like we always do and always have," Baton Rouge Police Chief Carl Dabadie said. "There’s no doubt we won’t here, also."

A Louisiana sheriff's deputy was shot and killed late Saturday night while conducting an investigation near a Baton Rouge movie theater, officials said.

A suspect was also injured during the incident. No names were given and no details on the original investigation immediately emerged.

The East Baton Rouge Sheriff's Office deputy was rushed to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead. He was on assignment with another deputy when the episode occurred.

“It’s a tragic night for the East Baton Rouge Sheriff’s Office," said Casey Hicks, the public information director for the East Baton Rouge Sheriff's Department. "...We’re focused on working with the family, praying with the family, and making sure that our deputies have the help and support they need."

The Louisiana State Police were set to conduct an investigation into the deputy's death.

“I think we are a very praying community and I think that thoughts and prayers are needed here and we come together just like we always do and always have," Baton Rouge Police Chief Carl Dabadie said. "There’s no doubt we won’t here, also."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.