Racing 92 president Jacky Lorenzetti says Stade Francais merger is off

Reuters    A planned merger between Parisian rugby powerhouses Racing 92 and Stade Francais looks set to be cancelled amid strong opposition, the Racing 92 president Jacky Lorenzetti said on Sunday. “I have decided to give this beautiful project up,” Lorenzetti said in a statement. Stade Francais players began an open-ended strike last week, denouncing what they called a takeover in disguise, while the French federation and the Paris mayor also opposed the merger. “I have heard and understood the reservations … the social, human, sporting conditions are not met. Perhaps we were right too soon,” said Lorenzetti. “The future of Stade Francais will be written without us and I wish them the best.” The Stade Francais president Thomas Savare has said that he does not have the cash to keep the 14-times French champions afloat. “We now have to build the future of this club in a collegial way,” the head of the players’ union and former Stade player Robins Tchale Watchou told Reuters. After Stade Francais’s players went on strike on Tuesday, the French League postponed games featuring the two Paris clubs this weekend, having met team representatives on Friday. Another meeting was also scheduled for Monday, with LNR president Paul Goze and French federation boss Bernard Laporte also due to meet in the evening.  Racing 92   Stade Français   Rugby union   news

A planned merger between Parisian rugby powerhouses Racing 92 and Stade Francais looks set to be cancelled amid strong opposition, the Racing 92 president Jacky Lorenzetti said on Sunday.

Wales coach Rob Howley accuses France of ‘undermining game’s integrity’ Read more

“I have decided to give this beautiful project up,” Lorenzetti said in a statement.

Stade Francais players began an open-ended strike last week, denouncing what they called a takeover in disguise, while the French federation and the Paris mayor also opposed the merger.

“I have heard and understood the reservations … the social, human, sporting conditions are not met. Perhaps we were right too soon,” said Lorenzetti. “The future of Stade Francais will be written without us and I wish them the best.”

The Stade Francais president Thomas Savare has said that he does not have the cash to keep the 14-times French champions afloat.

“We now have to build the future of this club in a collegial way,” the head of the players’ union and former Stade player Robins Tchale Watchou told Reuters.

After Stade Francais’s players went on strike on Tuesday, the French League postponed games featuring the two Paris clubs this weekend, having met team representatives on Friday.

Another meeting was also scheduled for Monday, with LNR president Paul Goze and French federation boss Bernard Laporte also due to meet in the evening.