Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game
Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game
Shares                The boot has been booted, the wheelbarrow has been wheeled out, and the thimble got the thumbs down in the latest version of the board game Monopoly. In their place will be a Tyrannosaurus rex, a penguin and a rubber ducky. More than 4.3 million voters from 146 countries weighed in on which tokens they wanted to see in future versions of the property-acquisition game, which is based on the real-life streets of Atlantic City . Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based Hasbro announced the winners Friday morning. Jonathan Berkowitz, Hasbro's senior vice president of marketing, grew up playing the game with his family. "While I'm sad to see the iconic thimble, boot, and wheelbarrow tokens go, it will be fun to have some new, fan-sourced tokens in the mix," he said. "Personally, I've always especially liked the boot token, but I'm excited to move onto the T. rex." There were 64 contenders, including a winking emoji, a hashtag, a clunky '80s-style cellphone and a pair of bunny slippers. The existing Scottish Terrier, battleship, racecar, top hat and cat tokens will carry on. The Scottie was top dog in the competition, leading all contenders with 212,476 votes. The T. rex was second with 207,954, and the hat was third with 167,582. The car was fourth with 165,083; the ducky was fifth with 160,485; the cat was sixth with 154,165; the penguin waddled into seventh place with 146,661; and the battleship made the final cut with 134,704 votes. The closest unsuccessful candidate was the tortoise, which fell nearly 5,700 votes short. A rain boot got the least support, with 7,239 votes. The next version of the game will go on sale with the new tokens in the fall. The board game was "born" on March 19, 1935, when Parker Brothers acquired the rights to it. In the decades since, an estimated 1 billion people have weighed the merits of buying up utilities and railroads or trying to hit it big with Boardwalk hotels. The original 10 tokens were an iron, purse, lantern, racecar, thimble, shoe, top hat, battleship, cannon and a rocking horse. ——— Follow Wayne Parry at http:// twitter .com/WayneParryAC Shares                  Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   'Help us bring her home,' pleads father of student allegedly kidnapped by former teacher   Russia orders check of American media in the country in retaliation for U.S. bill   North Korea tests newly developed high-thrust rocket engine   Appeals court refuses to stop oil in Dakota Access pipeline   In Appalachia, Trump's proposed budget has people worried   Ex-trooper charged in 2014 shooting death of pregnant wife   More victims come forward in Marine nude photo scandal   In Beijing, Tillerson urges China-US cooperation on N. Korea   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space   Officials: Woman shot by Tennessee deputies had a BB gun   Pope Francis to visit Egypt in April as dialogue improves   Accused White House fence jumper was on grounds for 16 minutes: Secret Service   Secret Service laptop with Trump Tower floor plans stolen in New York   Man who allegedly grabbed soldier's gun at Paris airport shouted 'I’m here to die for Allah:' officials   French police release father of Orly Airport attacker   In Minnesota, Somali community fears Trump travel ban, aid cuts will worsen their country   Travel ban fight personal for Hawaii's 'scholarly gentleman'   Brotherly love: Two brothers who live 1,000 miles away reunite in heartwarming viral video   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   J.C. Penney lists the 138 stores it is planning to shutter   Meals on Wheels donations surge after White House proposes funding cuts   William and Kate continued Paris tour undeterred by airport shooting incident   Comedian Artie Lange arrested over drug possession   Suzanne Somers looks back on 40 years of 'Three's Company'

The boot has been booted, the wheelbarrow has been wheeled out, and the thimble got the thumbs down in the latest version of the board game Monopoly. In their place will be a Tyrannosaurus rex, a penguin and a rubber ducky.

More than 4.3 million voters from 146 countries weighed in on which tokens they wanted to see in future versions of the property-acquisition game, which is based on the real-life streets of Atlantic City. Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based Hasbro announced the winners Friday morning.

Jonathan Berkowitz, Hasbro's senior vice president of marketing, grew up playing the game with his family.

"While I'm sad to see the iconic thimble, boot, and wheelbarrow tokens go, it will be fun to have some new, fan-sourced tokens in the mix," he said. "Personally, I've always especially liked the boot token, but I'm excited to move onto the T. rex."

There were 64 contenders, including a winking emoji, a hashtag, a clunky '80s-style cellphone and a pair of bunny slippers.

The existing Scottish Terrier, battleship, racecar, top hat and cat tokens will carry on.

The Scottie was top dog in the competition, leading all contenders with 212,476 votes. The T. rex was second with 207,954, and the hat was third with 167,582. The car was fourth with 165,083; the ducky was fifth with 160,485; the cat was sixth with 154,165; the penguin waddled into seventh place with 146,661; and the battleship made the final cut with 134,704 votes.

The closest unsuccessful candidate was the tortoise, which fell nearly 5,700 votes short.

A rain boot got the least support, with 7,239 votes.

The next version of the game will go on sale with the new tokens in the fall.

The board game was "born" on March 19, 1935, when Parker Brothers acquired the rights to it. In the decades since, an estimated 1 billion people have weighed the merits of buying up utilities and railroads or trying to hit it big with Boardwalk hotels.

The original 10 tokens were an iron, purse, lantern, racecar, thimble, shoe, top hat, battleship, cannon and a rocking horse.

———

Follow Wayne Parry at http://twitter.com/WayneParryAC