Fans launch petition to keep Neighbours on British TV after fears it could be axed
Fans launch petition to keep Neighbours on British TV after fears it could be axed
e've already had to deal with the Great British Bake Off moving to Channel 4...and today there were fears that British TV could be getting yet another shake-up. It was reported this morning that the beloved Australian import Neighbours , shown in this country since 1986 and on Channel 5 since 2008, could be axed from our screens altogether if the makers failed to reach a new deal with the show's UK broadcaster. "The renegotiation of the Neighbours Channel 5 deal has become very fraught and is in jeopardy. Channel 5 really want to keep the show," an alleged insider told the Sunday People. "But the failure to reach a deal is being blamed on Channel 5’s new American owners Viacom for refusing to sign off on the figures and not understanding the cultural importance of the show in the UK. "Neighbours has become a British TV favourite and it would be a sad day if it were to go." redictably enough – Neighbours is famously more popular in the UK than in its native Australia – panicked British fans of Ramsay Street were quick to take to Twitter to voice their concerns. A change.org petition has been launched, and is currently standing at 1,748 supporters. "Neighbours is a solid and reliable programme with a loyal fanbase, which never fails to turn even the gloomiest of days around, not just for me but for many other fans all around the world," wrote one of the petition's backers. There are very few TV programmes I watch on TV, but neighbours is my sacred half hour," said another. Channel 5: Keep Neighbours on UK terrestrial TV - Sign the Petition! https://t.co/hYptWJNf8P via @ChangeAUS Say it isn't so?!? #Neighbours to face the axe?!!! pic.twitter.com/6LjWXo4pLB ack in 2008, the show's move from BBC One to Channel 5 was prompted by a similar dispute, after makers FremantleMedia asked the broadcaster to pay £300 million across eight years. The BBC were unable or unwilling to do so, and the show was picked up by Channel 5. t's worth noting, however, that the new rumour about the possible cancellation has not yet been confirmed by any official sources. The Telegraph has reached out to Channel 5 for a comment, and will update this story with their response.

We've already had to deal with the Great British Bake Off moving to Channel 4...and today there were fears that British TV could be getting yet another shake-up.

It was reported this morning that the beloved Australian import Neighbours, shown in this country since 1986 and on Channel 5 since 2008, could be axed from our screens altogether if the makers failed to reach a new deal with the show's UK broadcaster.

"The renegotiation of the Neighbours Channel 5 deal has become very fraught and is in jeopardy. Channel 5 really want to keep the show," an alleged insider told the Sunday People.

"But the failure to reach a deal is being blamed on Channel 5’s new American owners Viacom for refusing to sign off on the figures and not understanding the cultural importance of the show in the UK.

"Neighbours has become a British TV favourite and it would be a sad day if it were to go."