Tim Allen says being a conservative in Hollywood is like living in 1930's Germany
Tim Allen says being a conservative in Hollywood is like living in 1930's Germany
Political Tim Allen says being a conservative in Hollywood is like living in 1930's Germany Tim Allen talked about going to the inauguration on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live.'
	                        
	                        	 (Reuters) Tim Allen says that living in Hollywood right now is akin to Nazi Germany. The comedian made the claim while appearing on "Jimmy Kimmel Live." "You gotta be real careful around here," Allen noted. "You get beat up if you don't believe what everybody else believes. This is like '30s Germany." Allen, 63, plays an outspoken conservative on the sitcom "Last Man Standing" and is one of the few actors in Hollywood to profess having right-wing leanings. When Kimmel asked him about attending the inaugruation ceremony the "Home Improvement" star's eyes bulged and he stammered: "I was invited, we did a VIP thing for the vets, and went to a veterans ball, so I went to go see Democrats and Republicans." "Yeah I went to the inauguration," he added.     'Bachelorette' Kaitlyn Bristowe is freezing her eggs   'Star Wars': Mark Hamill shares 'perhaps the very first' Luke Skywalker picture   Jaime Pressly's home burglarized days after Kendall Jenner   'Flip or Flop' star Tarek El Moussa shares shocking photo from cancer battle

Tim Allen says that living in Hollywood right now is akin to Nazi Germany.

The comedian made the claim while appearing on "Jimmy Kimmel Live."

"You gotta be real careful around here," Allen noted. "You get beat up if you don't believe what everybody else believes. This is like '30s Germany."

Allen, 63, plays an outspoken conservative on the sitcom "Last Man Standing" and is one of the few actors in Hollywood to profess having right-wing leanings.

When Kimmel asked him about attending the inaugruation ceremony the "Home Improvement" star's eyes bulged and he stammered: "I was invited, we did a VIP thing for the vets, and went to a veterans ball, so I went to go see Democrats and Republicans."

"Yeah I went to the inauguration," he added.