BBC must now do for arts what it has done for science, says R4 culture boss

With mathematicians, physicists and doctors dominating much of the airtime on BBC Radio 4 , science coverage has never had it so good. But is it time to restore some balance? The talk station’s latest signing, the novelist James Runcie , thinks so: “The renaissance in science shows has been remarkable. Now we really need to listen to a few more creative voices. Radio should be the perfect place to take creative risks.” Popular programmes presented by star physicists Brian Cox and Jim Al-Khalili , along with programmes from top mathematicians Marcus du Sautoy and Hannah Fry , have taken Radio 4 by storm, but this spring they will have to make room for an old rival. From next month the arts are to push back against a tide of equations and formulae in an effort to reclaim listeners’ attention. With a season of poems retelling Homer’s from an immigrant viewpoint, five Reith lectures from the novelist Hilary Mantel and an arty replacement for the long-running Wednesday morning show , musicians, poets and writers are staging a comeback. Leading the charge is Runcie, the writer, radio and television producer whose books about a crime-solving vicar inspired the hit ITV series . Appointed head of arts for Radio 4 last year, he is to boost the station’s creative output and bring more performance to its audience of 10.9 million, instead of simply reviews and criticism. “We need to hear a bit more from artists themselves, rather than just other people talking about them,” Runcie said this weekend, revealing his first season of new programmes. “I like the shows where invited guests come on to talk about the latest books, music or films, but we also need to bring interesting work directly to people.” Perhaps the most noticeable change for diehard Radio 4 listeners will be the loss of after 35 years on air. Next month Libby Purves, who has presented the show since 1983, will move aside for good, as an arts interview series takes over her prime slot. The new Wednesday morning show, Only Artists, takes its name from art historian EH Gombrich’s line, “There really is no such thing as art. There are only artists”. It starts on 5 April when Grayson Perry will interview novelist and computer games writer Naomi Alderman . “I’m interested in the borders between high and low culture,” said Perry, “and also I’m mystified by computer games.” In the second show, Alderman will meet classical double-bass player Chi-chi Nwanoku, founder of Europe’s first professional orchestra whose players are all black, Chineke!.Radio 4 controller Gwyneth Williams has made space for four series a year of this chain of conversations, and wants them to do for the arts what Khalili’s Tuesday show, , has done for science. The choice of novelist Mantel as Reith lecturer later this spring reflects this emphasis on the arts. The writer of is to talk about the hold that history has on human imagination in her five lectures entitled . She will also question why her literary genre, historical fiction, is so looked down upon. “My Reith lectures will explore whether that simulation is worthwhile – is it an open door to confusion, a dishonest and manipulative exercise for lazy minds?,” Mantel has said. A documentary series will also follow the lives of six artists for a year. Among those chosen are concert pianist and teacher Joanna MacGregor, dancer Crystal Pite, who has choreographed her first Royal Ballet piece, and the music director of the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, Mirga Gražinytė-Tyla. “The aim is to complement our existing coverage, so that as well as giving Radio 4 listeners a front-row seat, we take them backstage, to places they might not normally go, and present the artist’s unique take on the world as it is, as soon as we can, right here, right now,” said Runcie, 56, who is the son of the late former archbishop of Canterbury, Robert Runcie, and who is writing a prequel to his Grantchester Mysteries series. Perhaps the boldest of Runcie’s ideas is a reworking of the 3,000-year-old epic poem , freshly imagined by 10 poets from different backgrounds. With specially commissioned music, will draw parallels between the ancient journey Homer describes and the modern immigrant’s search for security. It will run in the morning for two weeks from 17 April and has been curated by Daljit Nagra, Radio 4’s poet in residence, who will introduce each episode and also write one of the poems, alongside poets such as Mir Mahfuz Ali, and Mona Arshi. “It is about Homer and it is about now,” said Runcie, adding that this new , some of it originally written in other languages, has been created “in the lamplight” of Homer’s influential epic. Radio, he believes, is the right place for risk-taking: “You can be much more nimble on radio, partly because it is cheaper. I don’t see why artists can’t talk about what is happening in the world.” Other new programmes will cover protest art in revolutionary Latin America and the dangers of dancing in Sudan. The musician Alex Kapranos will report on the arts in Greece after the financial crash and the tenor Roderick Williams will chart the choral history of Britain. But this is not Williams’s first arts push. In 2013, three years into her job at Radio 4 and long after creating and Cox’s jokey show , she announced that she wanted to “shift the focus in part to Radio 4’s cultural heart” and “throw some fireworks into the schedule” by working with artistic partners. So far, the grip of science on Radio 4 has been hard to loosen. This article was amended on 19 March 2017 to correct the launch date for Only Artists Libby Purves is not going to present a Saturday programme about British theatre, as had been suggested.  Radio 4   The Observer   Poetry   Radio   BBC   Radio industry   Brian Cox   news

With mathematicians, physicists and doctors dominating much of the airtime on BBC Radio 4, science coverage has never had it so good. But is it time to restore some balance?

The talk station’s latest signing, the Grantchester novelist James Runcie, thinks so: “The renaissance in science shows has been remarkable. Now we really need to listen to a few more creative voices. Radio should be the perfect place to take creative risks.”

Popular programmes presented by star physicists Brian Cox and Jim Al-Khalili, along with programmes from top mathematicians Marcus du Sautoy and Hannah Fry, have taken Radio 4 by storm, but this spring they will have to make room for an old rival. From next month the arts are to push back against a tide of equations and formulae in an effort to reclaim listeners’ attention. With a season of poems retelling Homer’s Odyssey from an immigrant viewpoint, five Reith lectures from the novelist Hilary Mantel and an arty replacement for the long-running Wednesday morning show Midweek, musicians, poets and writers are staging a comeback.

We need to hear a bit more from artists themselves, rather than just other people talking about them James Runcie, Radio 4 head of arts

Leading the charge is Runcie, the writer, radio and television producer whose books about a crime-solving vicar inspired the hit ITV series Grantchester. Appointed head of arts for Radio 4 last year, he is to boost the station’s creative output and bring more performance to its audience of 10.9 million, instead of simply reviews and criticism.

“We need to hear a bit more from artists themselves, rather than just other people talking about them,” Runcie said this weekend, revealing his first season of new programmes. “I like the shows where invited guests come on to talk about the latest books, music or films, but we also need to bring interesting work directly to people.”

Perhaps the most noticeable change for diehard Radio 4 listeners will be the loss of Midweek after 35 years on air. Next month Libby Purves, who has presented the show since 1983, will move aside for good, as an arts interview series takes over her prime slot.

The new Wednesday morning show, Only Artists, takes its name from art historian EH Gombrich’s line, “There really is no such thing as art. There are only artists”. It starts on 5 April when Grayson Perry will interview novelist and computer games writer Naomi Alderman. “I’m interested in the borders between high and low culture,” said Perry, “and also I’m mystified by computer games.”

In the second show, Alderman will meet classical double-bass player Chi-chi Nwanoku, founder of Europe’s first professional orchestra whose players are all black, Chineke!.Radio 4 controller Gwyneth Williams has made space for four series a year of this chain of conversations, and wants them to do for the arts what Khalili’s Tuesday show, The Life Scientific, has done for science.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Wolf Hall author Hilary Mantel, who has been chosen as Reith lecturer. Photograph: Justin Tallis/AFP/Getty Images

The choice of novelist Mantel as Reith lecturer later this spring reflects this emphasis on the arts. The writer of Wolf Hall is to talk about the hold that history has on human imagination in her five lectures entitled Resurrection: The Art and Craft. She will also question why her literary genre, historical fiction, is so looked down upon. “My Reith lectures will explore whether that simulation is worthwhile – is it an open door to confusion, a dishonest and manipulative exercise for lazy minds?,” Mantel has said.

A documentary series will also follow the lives of six artists for a year. Among those chosen are concert pianist and teacher Joanna MacGregor, dancer Crystal Pite, who has choreographed her first Royal Ballet piece, and the music director of the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, Mirga Gražinytė-Tyla.

“The aim is to complement our existing coverage, so that as well as giving Radio 4 listeners a front-row seat, we take them backstage, to places they might not normally go, and present the artist’s unique take on the world as it is, as soon as we can, right here, right now,” said Runcie, 56, who is the son of the late former archbishop of Canterbury, Robert Runcie, and who is writing a prequel to his Grantchester Mysteries series.

Perhaps the boldest of Runcie’s ideas is a reworking of the 3,000-year-old epic poem The Odyssey, freshly imagined by 10 poets from different backgrounds. With specially commissioned music, The Odyssey Project: My Name is Nobody will draw parallels between the ancient journey Homer describes and the modern immigrant’s search for security. It will run in the morning for two weeks from 17 April and has been curated by Daljit Nagra, Radio 4’s poet in residence, who will introduce each episode and also write one of the poems, alongside poets such as Mir Mahfuz Ali, and Mona Arshi.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Radio 4 controller Gwyneth Williams, who created The Life Scientific. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the Observer

“It is about Homer and it is about now,” said Runcie, adding that this new Odyssey, some of it originally written in other languages, has been created “in the lamplight” of Homer’s influential epic.

Radio, he believes, is the right place for risk-taking: “You can be much more nimble on radio, partly because it is cheaper. I don’t see why artists can’t talk about what is happening in the world.”

Other new programmes will cover protest art in revolutionary Latin America and the dangers of dancing in Sudan. The musician Alex Kapranos will report on the arts in Greece after the financial crash and the tenor Roderick Williams will chart the choral history of Britain.

But this is not Williams’s first arts push. In 2013, three years into her job at Radio 4 and long after creating The Life Scientific and Cox’s jokey show The Infinite Monkey Cage, she announced that she wanted to “shift the focus in part to Radio 4’s cultural heart” and “throw some fireworks into the schedule” by working with artistic partners. So far, the grip of science on Radio 4 has been hard to loosen.

• This article was amended on 19 March 2017 to correct the launch date for Only Artists. Libby Purves is not going to present a Saturday programme about British theatre, as had been suggested.