Fox News Host Thinks Snoop Dog and Bow Wow Should Be 'Killed' for Anti-Trump Actions
Fox News Host Thinks Snoop Dog and Bow Wow Should Be 'Killed' for Anti-Trump Actions
It’s safe to say that Snoop Dogg won’t be making any appearances on Fox News anytime soon. Thanks to his controversial music video for “Lavender,” in which he fires a toy gun at a clown that doubles for Donald Trump , one Fox host went so far as to suggest that Snoop be murdered for his act. But he wasn’t the only rapper who found himself in the crosshairs of Fox News pundit Kimberly Guilfoyle, who appeared on recently. Bow Wow, who came at the President with an incendiary tweet , also made it on Guilfoyle’s hit list. "Kill them?" Guilfoyle replied when asked how Trump should clap back at his new foes. “Kill them. I think it would be fantastic if Snoop and wannabe-Snoop got a visit from, like, the federal marshals, and let's see how tough and gangster they are then." That would be quite the escalation from the tweet Trump sent out earlier in the week, in which he went after Snoop’s career . "Can you imagine what the outcry would be if @SnoopDogg, failing career and all, had aimed and fired the gun at President Obama? Jail time!" Trump wrote. Bow Wow has previously tweeted that Trump should “shut your punk ass up talking shit about my uncle @SnoopDogg,” or else they might “pimp your wife and make her work for us." However that remark seems to have remained off of the president’s radar.

It’s safe to say that Snoop Dogg won’t be making any appearances on Fox News anytime soon. Thanks to his controversial music video for “Lavender,” in which he fires a toy gun at a clown that doubles for Donald Trump, one Fox host went so far as to suggest that Snoop be murdered for his act.

But he wasn’t the only rapper who found himself in the crosshairs of Fox News pundit Kimberly Guilfoyle, who appeared on The Five recently. Bow Wow, who came at the President with an incendiary tweet, also made it on Guilfoyle’s hit list.

"Kill them?" Guilfoyle replied when asked how Trump should clap back at his new foes. “Kill them. I think it would be fantastic if Snoop and wannabe-Snoop got a visit from, like, the federal marshals, and let's see how tough and gangster they are then."

That would be quite the escalation from the tweet Trump sent out earlier in the week, in which he went after Snoop’s career. "Can you imagine what the outcry would be if @SnoopDogg, failing career and all, had aimed and fired the gun at President Obama? Jail time!" Trump wrote.

Bow Wow has previously tweeted that Trump should “shut your punk ass up talking shit about my uncle @SnoopDogg,” or else they might “pimp your wife and make her work for us." However that remark seems to have remained off of the president’s radar.