SRK Plans To Quit Smoking And Drinking, Kapil's Physical Brawl With Sunil & More From Ent
SRK Plans To Quit Smoking And Drinking, Kapil's Physical Brawl With Sunil & More From Ent
SRK Plans To Quit Smoking And Drinking, Kapil's Physical Brawl With Sunil & More From Ent 1. Doting Father SRK Wants To Quit Smoking & Drinking So That He Can Spend More Time With His Kids He went on to say that he wants to spend the next 20-25 years of his life with his kids and this is why he is keen to maintain a healthy lifestyle. “Having said that, will I be there to do the same thing that I did with my older kids? Yes, that is a worry. So that keeps you smoking less, drinking less, exercising more. I am planning to give up all (smoking, drinking, etc) and try to be healthier and happier,” he said. 2. In The Wake Of TVF Controversy, Twinkle Khanna Blogs About How She Dealt l With A Wealthy 'Frog'! Have any frogs tried to catch me between their webbed feet? Unfortunately, the answer is yes. A few years ago, a message on my phone reduced me to tears in the car. I had reached breaking point after months of suggestive messages from a wealthy, powerful client that I had been pretending not to understand because all I wanted to do was to complete the project in a professional manner. And so I ended up as a statistic — the 38% of women who faced sexual harassment at work, according to a survey done by the Indian National Bar association. 3. Sunil Grover & Kapil Sharma Get In A Physical Brawl On A Flight, Unfollow Each Other On Twitter The incident took place when an inebriated Kapil walked up to Sunil’s seat and started hurling abuses at his co-star. In fact, it’s being said that he even held Sunil by his collar and hit him, much to the dismay of fellow flyers. However, Grover kept his calm and stayed mum during the entire incident. 4. Akshay Shares His Words Of Wisdom, Tells Husbands To Avoid Fights As Wives Are The Best Spies! “According to international agencies like the CIA or Mossad, women are the best spies in the world. You can even ask any husband and no, this is not a joke, it is a fact. We men are very good with gadgets. But women have an inbuilt antenna in them. Taapsee has it too. I don’t know how they do it but they find out things in a snap. It is the best-kept secret,” Akshay said at the event. 5. The Trailer Of Baahubali 2 Has Become The 7th Most Viewed Video In The World In Just 24 Hours! According to recent developments, Baahubali 2 trailer has become the 7th most viewed online video in 24 hours. What’s more, the official twitter account of the film confirmed the news when they posted a screenshot of Wikipedia’s ‘List of most viewed online videos in first 24 hours’ on their handle.

1. Doting Father SRK Wants To Quit Smoking & Drinking So That He Can Spend More Time With His Kids

tumblr

He went on to say that he wants to spend the next 20-25 years of his life with his kids and this is why he is keen to maintain a healthy lifestyle.

“Having said that, will I be there to do the same thing that I did with my older kids? Yes, that is a worry. So that keeps you smoking less, drinking less, exercising more. I am planning to give up all (smoking, drinking, etc) and try to be healthier and happier,” he said.

2. In The Wake Of TVF Controversy, Twinkle Khanna Blogs About How She Dealtl With A Wealthy 'Frog'!

Have any frogs tried to catch me between their webbed feet? Unfortunately, the answer is yes. A few years ago, a message on my phone reduced me to tears in the car. I had reached breaking point after months of suggestive messages from a wealthy, powerful client that I had been pretending not to understand because all I wanted to do was to complete the project in a professional manner. And so I ended up as a statistic — the 38% of women who faced sexual harassment at work, according to a survey done by the Indian National Bar association.

3. Sunil Grover & Kapil Sharma Get In A Physical Brawl On A Flight, Unfollow Each Other On Twitter

TOI

The incident took place when an inebriated Kapil walked up to Sunil’s seat and started hurling abuses at his co-star. In fact, it’s being said that he even held Sunil by his collar and hit him, much to the dismay of fellow flyers. However, Grover kept his calm and stayed mum during the entire incident.

4. Akshay Shares His Words Of Wisdom, Tells Husbands To Avoid Fights As Wives Are The Best Spies!

star world

“According to international agencies like the CIA or Mossad, women are the best spies in the world. You can even ask any husband and no, this is not a joke, it is a fact. We men are very good with gadgets. But women have an inbuilt antenna in them. Taapsee has it too. I don’t know how they do it but they find out things in a snap. It is the best-kept secret,” Akshay said at the event.

5. The Trailer Of Baahubali 2 Has Become The 7th Most Viewed Video In The World In Just 24 Hours!

According to recent developments, Baahubali 2 trailer has become the 7th most viewed online video in 24 hours. What’s more, the official twitter account of the film confirmed the news when they posted a screenshot of Wikipedia’s ‘List of most viewed online videos in first 24 hours’ on their handle.