Disabled Goldfish Gets Its Own Wheelchair And The Internet Cheers
Disabled Goldfish Gets Its Own Wheelchair And The Internet Cheers
Life is now going swimmingly for a goldfish in San Antonio that just got its own underwater wheelchair. The goldfish suffers from Consequently, the fish was stuck on the bottom of its aquarium. That is, until an aquarium shop employee known only as Derek figured out a solution, according to BuzzFeed. “The bottom weight is almost equal to the pull on top so it works quite well for him,” Derek told BuzzFeed.com. “Think of goldfish as the pugs of the fish world. Pugs have unique features due to the way they were bred, but it also causes them a lot of medical problems ― same with goldfish!” The device worked to keep the fish buoyant and as a way for Derek’s friend, YouTuber Taylor Nicole Dean, to get viral traffic. After Derek sent photos of his design to Dean, a 19-year-old who posts YouTube videos about taking care of animals, she posted them on Twitter. How wheelchair goldfish gets suited up for his day pic.twitter.com/AbwoOrpdRn Animal lovers were thrilled. Just wanted to let you guys know wheelchair fish is still doing well and got an even more comfortable wheelchair pic.twitter.com/AwjeJU0pFL As the BBC noted, there was an ocean of support from the internet. @taylorndean  pic.twitter.com/vqqKJC79xK @taylorndean  pic.twitter.com/3H5snaH4X1 @taylorndean  pic.twitter.com/A51N5CKwix Dean is overjoyed by the response to Derek’s clever, humane gesture. “People love animals. It’s something that can bring everyone together,” she told BuzzFeed.com. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Humans Saved These 6 Animals From Extinction       Share this slide:       MORE:

Channel Islands Fox

These tiny foxes endemic to Channel Islands National Park, a chain of islands off the coast of California, faced a “ catastrophic ” decline in the late 1990s. Populations of the fox, which is no larger than a house cat, had plummeted more than 90 percent on four of the six islands. On Santa Cruz Island, where 1,400 foxes had once lived, fewer than 55 remained. The population on Santa Rosa Island had dropped from 1,780 to just 15.Golden eagles were the primary threat facing the small mammals, scientists said. The birds were not native to the islands and had only started frequenting the area in the 1990s after use of the pesticide DDT wiped out the larger, native bald eagles.“Golden eagle predation was unprecedented, and was considered unnatural because golden eagles had not previously bred on the islands and were, until this time, rarely observed,” the National Park Service explained on its website. “With the golden eagle’s sharp talons, swiftness of flight, and four times the body mass of a fox, they easily preyed upon the vulnerable fox.”The imperiled creature was added to the endangered species list in 2004 -- a move that sparked an enormous, concerted effort to save the animal from the brink.Empowered and galvanized by the Endangered Species Act , at least 300 scientists and conservation experts, nonprofit organizations, and state and federal agencies joined forces to initiate conservation measures, including captive breeding and golden eagle relocation programs. The hard work ultimately paid off.The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announced in December that fox populations on the islands of San Miguel, Santa Rosa and Santa Cruz had “ fully recovered ,” while the fourth subspecies under threat, the Santa Catalina Island fox, had been “downlisted from endangered to threatened.”“It’s remarkable to think that in 2004, these foxes were given a 50 percent chance of going extinct in the next decade. Yet here we are today, declaring three of the four subspecies recovered and the fourth on its way,” former Fish and Wildlife Service Director Dan Ashe said in a statement. “That’s the power of the [Endangered Species Act] — not just to protect rare animals and plants on paper, but to drive focused conservation that gets dramatic results.”