Trump NIH Cuts Would Be 'Catastrophic Event,' Says Bush-Era NIH Chief
Trump NIH Cuts Would Be 'Catastrophic Event,' Says Bush-Era NIH Chief
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Matthew Herper       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Elias Zerhouni, President of R&D at Sanofi and former NIH Chief (JIM WATSON/AFP/Getty Images) Elias Zerhouni was nominated as director of the National Institutes of Health by George W. Bush in 2002, a role in which he served until 2008. Since 2011, he has run research and development at Sanofi, the world's fifth-largest drug company by sales. He says he's disturbed by the budget proposal of President Donald Trump. In his proposed budget for 2017, Trump says he wants to make massive cuts to many federal agencies in order to fund an increase in military spending. The NIH would be among the biggest casualties. Its budget would be cut by $5.8 billion, or 19%. Zerhouni says that this is a very bad idea, and that it could dramatically harm innovation in the U.S. "It will be a catastrophic event because the NIH funds grants over four or five years and therefore only has 20% of its budget to give at any one year," Zerhouni says. "Therefore, if you cut it by $6 billion it means next year there will be no grants. It’s really ill-advised, I think, to change budgets so drastically so quickly. It will be very detrimental, especially on young investigators or new investigators, new science. It will set back the NIH significantly after years of stagnation, but recent support from Congress. I find it disturbing, to be honest with you." The drug industry depends on discoveries made with NIH research--not entirely, and not for every drug, but in some cases dramatically. A new cholesterol drug developed by Sanofi and its partner, Regeneron, for instance, sprang from a study conducted at the University of Texas that was funded by the NIH and one of its institutes, the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, as well as several philanthropic foundations. In a statement, Sue Desmond-Hellmann, the chief executive of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and, before that, a longtime biotechnology executive, took aim at the effect Trump's cuts would have on the world's poor. "We are deeply troubled that the budget proposal disproportionately affects the poorest people, abroad and at home," Desmond-Hellmann wrote. "In just 25 years, American investments overseas have helped prevent the deaths of 122 million children, cut extreme poverty in half and put the world on the verge of eradicating polio. Foreign aid, and investments in research and development, have played a vital role in achieving this progress. Empowering people to lead healthy, productive lives creates more stable societies, which are critical to our national security. In the United States, we must continue to focus on expanding access to education and economic opportunity. The proposed cuts will ultimately make America, and the world, less prosperous and less safe.” The pharmaceutical industry's trade group, PHRMA, was also reached for comment, but could manage only a very neutral statement: As we review the President’s budget proposal, we look forward to continuing to work with President Trump and Congress to improve American competitiveness and protect American jobs. The U.S. biopharmaceutical industry leads the world in medical innovation, investing more than $70 billion a year in research and development in the United States and supports 4.5 million American jobs. We remain committed to ensuring that policies support innovation and value to deliver this new era of medicines to patients. Not much there, given that this is a group that has been running advertisements with the slogan "Go Boldly." Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Elias Zerhouni was nominated as director of the National Institutes of Health by George W. Bush in 2002, a role in which he served until 2008. Since 2011, he has run research and development at Sanofi, the world's fifth-largest drug company by sales. He says he's disturbed by the budget proposal of President Donald Trump.

In his proposed budget for 2017, Trump says he wants to make massive cuts to many federal agencies in order to fund an increase in military spending. The NIH would be among the biggest casualties. Its budget would be cut by $5.8 billion, or 19%. Zerhouni says that this is a very bad idea, and that it could dramatically harm innovation in the U.S.

"It will be a catastrophic event because the NIH funds grants over four or five years and therefore only has 20% of its budget to give at any one year," Zerhouni says. "Therefore, if you cut it by $6 billion it means next year there will be no grants. It’s really ill-advised, I think, to change budgets so drastically so quickly. It will be very detrimental, especially on young investigators or new investigators, new science. It will set back the NIH significantly after years of stagnation, but recent support from Congress. I find it disturbing, to be honest with you."

The drug industry depends on discoveries made with NIH research--not entirely, and not for every drug, but in some cases dramatically. A new cholesterol drug developed by Sanofi and its partner, Regeneron, for instance, sprang from a study conducted at the University of Texas that was funded by the NIH and one of its institutes, the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, as well as several philanthropic foundations.

In a statement, Sue Desmond-Hellmann, the chief executive of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and, before that, a longtime biotechnology executive, took aim at the effect Trump's cuts would have on the world's poor.

"We are deeply troubled that the budget proposal disproportionately affects the poorest people, abroad and at home," Desmond-Hellmann wrote. "In just 25 years, American investments overseas have helped prevent the deaths of 122 million children, cut extreme poverty in half and put the world on the verge of eradicating polio. Foreign aid, and investments in research and development, have played a vital role in achieving this progress. Empowering people to lead healthy, productive lives creates more stable societies, which are critical to our national security. In the United States, we must continue to focus on expanding access to education and economic opportunity. The proposed cuts will ultimately make America, and the world, less prosperous and less safe.”

The pharmaceutical industry's trade group, PHRMA, was also reached for comment, but could manage only a very neutral statement:

As we review the President’s budget proposal, we look forward to continuing to work with President Trump and Congress to improve American competitiveness and protect American jobs. The U.S. biopharmaceutical industry leads the world in medical innovation, investing more than $70 billion a year in research and development in the United States and supports 4.5 million American jobs. We remain committed to ensuring that policies support innovation and value to deliver this new era of medicines to patients.

Not much there, given that this is a group that has been running advertisements with the slogan "Go Boldly."