Taxes From A To Z (2017): A Is For Affordable Care Act Reporting
Taxes From A To Z (2017): A Is For Affordable Care Act Reporting
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kelly Phillips Erb       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. It’s my annual "Taxes from A to Z" series! If you’re wondering whether you can claim wardrobe expenses or whether to deduct a capital loss, you won’t want to miss it. In January of this year, President Trump signed an executive order giving federal agencies the authority and discretion to roll back certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act (ACA or Obamacare). It was unclear at the time what that might mean for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) which is tasked by Congress with enforcement of several key components of ACA, including the individual mandate. The following month, I reported that the IRS appears to be easing off of enforcing the mandate. Specifically, the IRS made it clear that returns will not be "systemically rejected by the IRS at the time of filing." Then, in March, the GOP finally showed its hand by revealing its plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. Included in the plan were an end to the requirement that individuals buy health insurance or pay the penalty (the shared responsibility payment) as well as a repeal of several tax-related provisions. The individual mandate would, if made law, be retroactive to January 1, 2016 (yes, 2016), which would affect the tax return that you will file this tax season, in 2017. The result? A lot of taxpayer confusion. It may even explain why tax season is off to a slow start : millions of taxpayers who filed by this time last year haven't filed in 2017. Taxpayers aren't sure what to do. Nope, nothing. Zilch. Nada. It's clear that things changing and that will impact your tax return eventually. But for now? You'll continue to report as if you would have at the end of the tax year. The IRS even has a reminder on its website , that says, among other things: Taxpayers should continue to file their tax returns as they normally would. So here's how that breaks down: Two of the most talked about taxes in Obamacare, the surtax, the ( NIIT ), are still in play for 2016 (and likely 2017). That means the 0.9% Medicare tax on a taxpayer's earned income over $200,000 for single taxpayers ($250,000 for married taxpayers) is still applicable. Ditto the additional 3.8% tax on interest, dividends, rent, royalty and passive business income on single taxpayers making more than $200,000 ($250,000 for married taxpayers). That income still gets reported, and the tax is payable. If you are subject to the Medicare surtax, you'll file form 8959, (downloads as a pdf), together with your form 1040. If you are subject to the NIIT, you'll file form 8960, (downloads as a pdf), together with your form 1040. What about those ? For now, those are still on the books, too. If you qualify for credits or subsidies, you must file a tax return in 2017 to reconcile the advance payments received in 2016. If you received advance payments in 2016 and fail to claim the premium tax credit on a federal tax return, this could bar you from receiving additional advance payments. In other words, if you received health care tax credits or subsidies and you want to continue to receive those health care tax credits or subsidies, you are still required to file your federal income tax returns even if you would normally be exempt. Failure to file means you will be responsible for the full cost of your health care insurance and you may be asked to repay some or all of the 2016 advance payments of the premium tax credit. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

It’s my annual "Taxes from A to Z" series! If you’re wondering whether you can claim wardrobe expenses or whether to deduct a capital loss, you won’t want to miss it.

A is for Affordable Care Act reporting.

In January of this year, President Trump signed an executive order giving federal agencies the authority and discretion to roll back certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act (ACA or Obamacare). It was unclear at the time what that might mean for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) which is tasked by Congress with enforcement of several key components of ACA, including the individual mandate. The following month, I reported that the IRS appears to be easing off of enforcing the mandate. Specifically, the IRS made it clear that returns will not be "systemically rejected by the IRS at the time of filing." Then, in March, the GOP finally showed its hand by revealing its plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. Included in the plan were an end to the requirement that individuals buy health insurance or pay the penalty (the shared responsibility payment) as well as a repeal of several tax-related provisions. The individual mandate would, if made law, be retroactive to January 1, 2016 (yes, 2016), which would affect the tax return that you will file this tax season, in 2017.

The result? A lot of taxpayer confusion. It may even explain why tax season is off to a slow start: millions of taxpayers who filed by this time last year haven't filed in 2017. Taxpayers aren't sure what to do. But here's what you need to know: Nothing has changed. Nope, nothing. Zilch. Nada.

It's clear that things are changing and that will impact your tax return eventually. But for now? You'll continue to report as if you would have at the end of the tax year. The IRS even has a reminder on its website, that says, among other things:

Taxpayers should continue to file their tax returns as they normally would.

So here's how that breaks down:

Two of the most talked about taxes in Obamacare, the Medicare surtax, the Net Investment Income Tax (NIIT), are still in play for 2016 (and likely 2017). That means the 0.9% Medicare tax on a taxpayer's earned income over $200,000 for single taxpayers ($250,000 for married taxpayers) is still applicable. Ditto the additional 3.8% tax on interest, dividends, rent, royalty and passive business income on single taxpayers making more than $200,000 ($250,000 for married taxpayers). That income still gets reported, and the tax is payable.

If you are subject to the Medicare surtax, you'll file form 8959, Additional Medicare Tax (downloads as a pdf), together with your form 1040.

If you are subject to the NIIT, you'll file form 8960, Net Investment Income Tax — Individuals, Estates, and Trusts (downloads as a pdf), together with your form 1040.

What about those premium tax credits? For now, those are still on the books, too. If you qualify for credits or subsidies, you must file a tax return in 2017 to reconcile the advance payments received in 2016. If you received advance payments in 2016 and fail to claim the premium tax credit on a federal tax return, this could bar you from receiving additional advance payments. In other words, if you received health care tax credits or subsidies and you want to continue to receive those health care tax credits or subsidies, you are still required to file your federal income tax returns even if you would normally be exempt. Failure to file means you will be responsible for the full cost of your health care insurance and you may be asked to repay some or all of the 2016 advance payments of the premium tax credit.