Watch Bon Jovi Pay Tribute to Chuck Berry at Ohio Concert
Watch Bon Jovi Pay Tribute to Chuck Berry at Ohio Concert 
Chuck Berry's Quiet 1950s Revolution: Dispatches From the Pages of Billboard's Past How Chuck Berry's 'Johnny B. Goode' Helped Define 'Back to the Future' Chuck Berry Covers: 15 Essential Cuts From Rolling Stones, AC/DC, Nina Simone & More Rolling Stones Pay Tribute to Chuck Berry: 'Your Music Is Engraved Inside Us Forever' Watch Bon Jovi Pay Tribute to Chuck Berry at Ohio Concert  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  Bon Jovi paid tribute to the late Chuck Berry with a cover of his iconic song "Johnny B. Goode" at the Nationwide Arena in Columbus, Ohio, on Saturday night (March 18). "The first time I ever sang in a talent competition, in the mid-'70s sometime, it was this song," Jon Bon Jovi told the crowd. Bon Jovi had performed the song as a teen in Sayreville, N.J., at the Sayreville War Memorial with a group named Raze, according to Laura Jackson's 2003 biography, .  "Mr. Berry, thank you for everything," the singer continued. "God bless you." Bon Jovi had appeared 22 years ago in Cleveland at the Concert for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, where Berry appeared as a performer. The rock 'n' roll pioneer passed away on March 18 in St. Louis. He was 90. Watch the video below, which includes some stellar keyboard work by David Bryan and a great solo by Phil X.

Watch Bon Jovi Pay Tribute to Chuck Berry at Ohio Concert

Bon Jovi paid tribute to the late Chuck Berry with a cover of his iconic song "Johnny B. Goode" at the Nationwide Arena in Columbus, Ohio, on Saturday night (March 18).

"The first time I ever sang in a talent competition, in the mid-'70s sometime, it was this song," Jon Bon Jovi told the crowd.

Bon Jovi had performed the song as a teen in Sayreville, N.J., at the Sayreville War Memorial with a group named Raze, according to Laura Jackson's 2003 biography, Jon Bon Jovi.

"Mr. Berry, thank you for everything," the singer continued. "God bless you."

Bon Jovi had appeared 22 years ago in Cleveland at the Concert for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, where Berry appeared as a performer.

The rock 'n' roll pioneer passed away on March 18 in St. Louis. He was 90.

Watch the video below, which includes some stellar keyboard work by David Bryan and a great solo by Phil X.