Wichita State Shockers player calls Kentucky Wildcats 'nothing special' ahead of matchup
Shockers' Willis: Kentucky 'nothing special'
Shockers' Willis: Kentucky 'nothing special' What you need to know for each of Sunday's second-round games Sweet 16-bound? Wichita State must play better to get there College basketball's coaching carousel: Who's in, who's out? Alford focused on UCLA, not Indiana opening ESPN picks: No consensus on a champion Reversal of progress for black male athletes Jay Williams breaks down what to watch for in Kentucky's second-round matchup against Wichita State. (1:21) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers college basketball Joined ESPN.com in 2011 Graduate of Minnesota State University, Mankato Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment INDIANAPOLIS -- A Wichita State player said Kentucky , the team the Shockers face Sunday in the second round of the NCAA tournament, is "nothing special," a comment that prompted a response from one former Wildcat. Darral Willis Jr. , who averages 10.0 points and 5.2 rebounds per game, said the Shockers don't fear the favored Wildcats. "They come on ESPN, they play on ESPN every game, so I've just seen them play a few times, but they're nothing special, nothing we can't do," Willis told Lex 18 News in Lexington, Kentucky. "We're not scared to play any team on this planet earth. We're ready and we'll be ready to play [Sunday]." Willie Cauley-Stein , a Sacramento Kings forward and former Kentucky standout, tweeted his displeasure with the comment: All smoove until that bell rings https://t.co/bZrc5w59sG — Willie Cauley-Stein (@THEwillieCS15) March 19, 2017 This week, Wichita State coach Gregg Marshall and his players discussed the chip they have on their shoulder after the NCAA tournament selection committee gave the Shockers a No. 10 seed. On Saturday, some of Wichita State's players talked about the differences between Kentucky's blue-chip roster and Wichita State's blue-collar crew. De'Aaron Fox said he wasn't concerned about anything but the game when asked about those comments. "We're going to play basketball," Fox told reporters. "I'm not worried about what anybody says right now." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Jay Williams breaks down what to watch for in Kentucky's second-round matchup against Wichita State. (1:21)

INDIANAPOLIS -- A Wichita State player said Kentucky, the team the Shockers face Sunday in the second round of the NCAA tournament, is "nothing special," a comment that prompted a response from one former Wildcat.

Darral Willis Jr., who averages 10.0 points and 5.2 rebounds per game, said the Shockers don't fear the favored Wildcats.

"They come on ESPN, they play on ESPN every game, so I've just seen them play a few times, but they're nothing special, nothing we can't do," Willis told Lex 18 News in Lexington, Kentucky. "We're not scared to play any team on this planet earth. We're ready and we'll be ready to play [Sunday]."

Willie Cauley-Stein, a Sacramento Kings forward and former Kentucky standout, tweeted his displeasure with the comment:

All smoove until that bell rings https://t.co/bZrc5w59sG — Willie Cauley-Stein (@THEwillieCS15) March 19, 2017

This week, Wichita State coach Gregg Marshall and his players discussed the chip they have on their shoulder after the NCAA tournament selection committee gave the Shockers a No. 10 seed. On Saturday, some of Wichita State's players talked about the differences between Kentucky's blue-chip roster and Wichita State's blue-collar crew.

De'Aaron Fox said he wasn't concerned about anything but the game when asked about those comments.

"We're going to play basketball," Fox told reporters. "I'm not worried about what anybody says right now."