O'Reilly Slams Hillary's Speech: 'Most Divisive Woman in the Country'

O'Reilly Slams Hillary's Speech: 'Most Divisive Woman in the Country' // // // // // // Bill O'Reilly called into "Fox & Friends Weekend" to react to Hillary Clinton's reemergence in the public sphere, and dished on who he thought might be the next Democratic presidential candidates to follow in her footsteps. Speaking at a St. Patrick's Day event in Scranton, Pa., her father's hometown, Clinton said that Americans cannot allow personal divides to become political divides. "We've got to keep trying to listen to each other," Clinton said. O'Reilly slammed the remarks, calling Clinton the "most divisive woman in the country." "She says she wants [us] to listen to each other? When she did no media and was imperious?" O'Reilly said. "She was the worst candidate I've ever seen in my entire life covering news for more than 40 years." He said he hopes Clinton will focus on "re-booting" her foundation in order to do constructive work around the world and stay out of electoral politics.. "This is a bunch of garbage and this is not a woman who wanted to ever bring anybody together in her entire life. She's ruthless. She wanted to be president and she's teed off she's not," O'Reilly said. Ahead of the 2020 elections O'Reilly said his home state's governor, Andrew Cuomo (D-N.Y.) has already started raising money for a potential presidential run. Cuomo was President Clinton's secretary of housing and urban development and is the son of the late Gov. Mario Cuomo (D-N.Y.). O'Reilly also said Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe may mount a run in 2020, noting he is closely tied to the Clinton family and would likely have their campaign apparatus behind him.

Bill O'Reilly called into "Fox & Friends Weekend" to react to Hillary Clinton's reemergence in the public sphere, and dished on who he thought might be the next Democratic presidential candidates to follow in her footsteps.

Speaking at a St. Patrick's Day event in Scranton, Pa., her father's hometown, Clinton said that Americans cannot allow personal divides to become political divides.

"We've got to keep trying to listen to each other," Clinton said.

O'Reilly slammed the remarks, calling Clinton the "most divisive woman in the country."

Bolling: 'RINO' Establishment Must Get Out of the Way of the 'Trump Train'

Feinstein on Trump: 'I Think He's Going to Get Himself Out' Of Office

Dershowitz: If Obama Issued Trump's Travel Ban, It Would've Been Upheld

"She says she wants [us] to listen to each other? When she did no media and was imperious?" O'Reilly said. "She was the worst candidate I've ever seen in my entire life covering news for more than 40 years."

He said he hopes Clinton will focus on "re-booting" her foundation in order to do constructive work around the world and stay out of electoral politics..

"This is a bunch of garbage and this is not a woman who wanted to ever bring anybody together in her entire life. She's ruthless. She wanted to be president and she's teed off she's not," O'Reilly said.

Ahead of the 2020 elections O'Reilly said his home state's governor, Andrew Cuomo (D-N.Y.) has already started raising money for a potential presidential run.

Cuomo was President Clinton's secretary of housing and urban development and is the son of the late Gov. Mario Cuomo (D-N.Y.).

O'Reilly also said Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe may mount a run in 2020, noting he is closely tied to the Clinton family and would likely have their campaign apparatus behind him.

NFL Manager: 70 Percent of Teams 'Genuinely Hate' Free-Agent Kaepernick

Rachel's Ratings: Maddow's Viewership Plummets After Trump Tax Reveal

Report: Melania, Barron Trump Moving Into WH Sooner Than Expected