Luxury Knows No Limits On This 623-Foot-Long Superyacht Concept
Luxury Knows No Limits On This 623-Foot-Long Superyacht Concept
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bill Springer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Credit HBD Studios There is no shortage of superyachts that can be categorized as one of the “biggest,” or “most extreme,” or even the “most luxurious.” But only a chosen few that have been launched recently can even come close to comparing to the new, futuristic and …..623-foot long, 94-foot wide… concept yacht from HBD Studios . Credit HBD Studios As you can see by these lifelike, computer generated renderings, is a futuristic superyacht . But then again, “futuristic” superyachts that have actually been built and delivered to wealthy owners (with much fanfare I might add), can be found all over the world today. Credit HBD Studios But what makes this strikingly angular new concept so compelling is its sheer size. Plans call for the yacht to the measure over 620-feet overall length and to be almost 100-feet wide. It’s also designed to accommodate 28 guests in 14 staterooms plus a private apartment for the owner, and of course, extensive accommodations for the yacht’s 70 crew members. Credit HBD Studios. It’s also designed to use one of the most advanced propulsion technologies available in the maritime industry called CODAG (combination of diesel engines & gas turbines) together with controllable-pitch propellers that are usually used on high-tech warships. Credit HBD Studios As a result, this enormous superyacht could possibly reach a max speed of 32 knots thanks to the generated by its two massive diesel engines running together with and additional two gas turbines. Credit HBD Studios And with a fuel capacity that’s measured in (1,500) rather than gallons, is supposedly designed to be capable of cruising approximately 6000 nautical miles before needing to refuel. Credit HBD Studios And that’s pretty good as long as an owner doesn’t mind paying approximately $600,000 to refuel. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

There is no shortage of superyachts that can be categorized as one of the “biggest,” or “most extreme,” or even the “most luxurious.” But only a chosen few that have been launched recently can even come close to comparing to L’Amage, the new, futuristic and ahem…..623-foot long, 94-foot wide… concept yacht from HBD Studios.

As you can see by these lifelike, computer generated renderings, L’Amage is a futuristic superyacht concept. But then again, “futuristic” superyachts that have actually been built and delivered to wealthy owners (with much fanfare I might add), can be found all over the world today.

But what makes this strikingly angular new concept so compelling is its sheer size. Plans call for the yacht to the measure over 620-feet overall length and to be almost 100-feet wide. It’s also designed to accommodate 28 guests in 14 staterooms plus a private apartment for the owner, and of course, extensive accommodations for the yacht’s 70 crew members.

It’s also designed to use one of the most advanced propulsion technologies available in the maritime industry called CODAG (combination of diesel engines & gas turbines) together with controllable-pitch propellers that are usually used on high-tech warships.

As a result, this enormous superyacht could possibly reach a max speed of 32 knots thanks to the 95,000 horsepower generated by its two massive diesel engines running together with and additional two gas turbines.

And with a fuel capacity that’s measured in tons (1,500) rather than gallons, L’Amage is supposedly designed to be capable of cruising approximately 6000 nautical miles before needing to refuel.

And that’s pretty good as long as an owner doesn’t mind paying approximately $600,000 to refuel.

When he's not sailing or pushing a baby stroller all over New England, Bill Springer covers superyachts, offshore adventure, and luxury travel. Follow him on Twitter or LinkedIn.