Ben Roethlisberger 'Leaning Towards' Return to Steelers for 2017-18 Season
Ben Roethlisberger 'Leaning Towards' Return to Steelers for 2017-18 Season
Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said Friday that he is "leaning towards" returning to play in 2017. According to Dale Lolley of the , Big Ben made the promising comment regarding his 2017 status at the "I'm going to take this offseason to evaluate, to consider all options. To consider health, and family and things like that and just kind of take some time away to evaluate next season, if there's going to be a next season." In February, Steelers general manager Kevin Colbert said the organization was planning to have Roethlisberger in the fold for 2017, per Gerry Dulac of the . The five-time Pro Bowler is coming off another strong campaign as he threw for 3,819 yards, 29 touchdowns and 13 interceptions in 14 regular-season games. He also led the Steelers to the AFC Championship Game. Although the veteran signal-caller continues to play at a high level, he is 35 years of age, and the 2017 season would be his 14th in the NFL. He has missed six games over the past two seasons due to injury and has appeared in all 16 games in a season just three times over the course of his career. Provided Roethlisberger returns and is healthy next season, however, the Steelers have a strong chance to make another deep run, as they franchised running back Le'Veon Bell and signed wide receiver Antonio Brown to a long-term contract. Landry Jones is Pittsburgh's backup quarterback, but with a 2-2 career record to go along with seven touchdowns and six interceptions, the Steelers are a far less dynamic team when he is in the lineup over Big Ben. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Patrick Smith/Getty Images

Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said Friday that he is "leaning towards" returning to play in 2017.

According to Dale Lolley of the Observer-Reporter, Big Ben made the promising comment regarding his 2017 status at the Ignite Men's Impact Weekend conference at Liberty University.

Roethlisberger's NFL future came into question in January when he said the following on 93.7 The Fan's the Cook and Poni Show (h/t CBS Pittsburgh): "I'm going to take this offseason to evaluate, to consider all options. To consider health, and family and things like that and just kind of take some time away to evaluate next season, if there's going to be a next season."

In February, Steelers general manager Kevin Colbert said the organization was planning to have Roethlisberger in the fold for 2017, per Gerry Dulac of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.

The five-time Pro Bowler is coming off another strong campaign as he threw for 3,819 yards, 29 touchdowns and 13 interceptions in 14 regular-season games. He also led the Steelers to the AFC Championship Game.

Although the veteran signal-caller continues to play at a high level, he is 35 years of age, and the 2017 season would be his 14th in the NFL.

He has missed six games over the past two seasons due to injury and has appeared in all 16 games in a season just three times over the course of his career.

Provided Roethlisberger returns and is healthy next season, however, the Steelers have a strong chance to make another deep run, as they franchised running back Le'Veon Bell and signed wide receiver Antonio Brown to a long-term contract.

Landry Jones is Pittsburgh's backup quarterback, but with a 2-2 career record to go along with seven touchdowns and six interceptions, the Steelers are a far less dynamic team when he is in the lineup over Big Ben.