Teen Adel reveals life under ISIS and escaping execution
'I wished I'd die': Harrowing account of life under ISIS


A teenager has revealed how he narrowly dodged execution by ISIS after being arrested for selling cigarettes, in a shocking insight into the horrors facing children in Iraq.

In heartbreaking footage filmed in an Iraqi refugee camp, a mother has also spoken of her trauma after her seven-year-old daughter stepped on a landmine while trying to flee the terror group.

It comes amid serious concerns about the psychological damage children face after two years fearing for their lives under ISIS.

Scroll down for video

Adel, not his real name, was tortured by ISIS thugs after being arrested for selling cigarettes, and said they 'made me wish I could die'

Adel - not his real name - was just 14 when he was arrested and tortured by the fundamentalists, who he said showed him how to cut the throats of babies while encouraging him to join.

The teenager, now 17, said in a video released by charity Save The Children that life became 'intolerable' under ISIS, and spoke harrowingly of people being rounded up and executed.

Fighting back tears as he recounted his ordeal, Adel said: 'They put a bag on my head, they tortured me, made me wish I could die.'

He was hit with metal bars and cables, and he said: 'They used different torture methods. Those who smoked, they cut their fingers.'

He recalled how ISIS would round up 100 people at a time and execute them before burying them in mass graves

Once ISIS moved in, the town's population were encouraged to take up arms and fight.

The teenager said: 'They changed [all] the books, teaching [us] about taking up arms and cutting children’s throats, showing how to cut babies’ throats… they would brainwash them and force them to join in the end.'

Adel made several attempts to escape, but after being recaptured he feared he was going to be executed.

Adel, from the town of Haqija in northern Iraq, recounted: 'They dressed us in the orange suits, got us all ready. There was an hour and a half or two left... we lost hope and prayed... we thought we were definitely going to die, [but then] the order came not to execute us... not to execute members who tried to cross.'

He said the order not to execute him had come from ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

The teenager is now at an Iraqi refugee camp, having been detained and tortured by ISIS militants, who he thought was going to execute him

Adel is from the town of Hawija, and is now being supported at a camp in nearby Kirkuk

The teenager said: 'When they execute, they don't execute one or two people. They would gather 50 to 70, sometimes up to 100 people.

'They would dig a trench with a shovel and they would put them all down. They would execute them - shoot them and bury them in a mass grave.'

After ISIS took control of his hometown, shaving and smoking were banned, and people were punished for wearing the 'wrong clothes', he said.

In another video released by Save the Children, the mother of a seven-year-old named Fatima - again, not her real name - recounted the family's escape.

She said: 'When [the landmine] exploded, we couldn’t see where the others were.

'We couldn’t tell where the mine threw them. It took us an hour to find them. One of my girls was in the mud, the other got thrown far away… she had many fractures in her leg, she broke it in four places. Her leg was like salt.'

Fatima has been left suffering flashbacks and deep trauma after the escape, when she broke her leg in four places

They are now being cared for at a camp near Kirkuk.

Athraa Saleh, a Save the Children case officer who spoke to the children, said the ordeal has left huge psychological scars.

Athraa said: 'If any of us mention Fatima's journey to the camp, she gets flashbacks, she freezes, she doesn’t move, sometimes she doesn’t want to talk. Sometimes she is happy, sometimes she is sad. But deep down she is always afraid.'

The charity's deput country director for Iraq, Aram Shakaram, said: 'We know from our work in other conflicts in the region that we only have a limited time to act.

Fatima, centre, escaped with her mother and sister Diyaa, aged 11, from their hometown of Hawija

'After two years under ISIS these children are likely to have suffered from what experts call "toxic stress", which can occur when children experience strong, frequent or prolonged adversity, such as extreme violence.

'Without immediate psychological support these children are at risk of mental trauma that can damage their health for life.'

The charity has set up 'child friendly spaces' - essentially frontline playgroups - to allow them to 'become children again'.

Staff trained to recognise trauma provide psychological first aid to the children in the camp.

Aram continued: 'In countless conflicts we’ve seen how a safe space can transform a child.

'It helps them get back on track, escape uncertainty and recover from the trauma of war. Life-saving aid like shelter, food and water are of course crucial in this crisis – but to help children recover from their ordeals, a safe space must be a priority.'

To support the work Save the Children is doing to support children in Iraq, click here.