Rachel's Ratings: Maddow's Viewership Plummets After Trump Tax Reveal

Rachel's Ratings: Maddow's Viewership Plummets After Trump Tax Reveal // // // // MSNBC host Rachel Maddow saw a steep drop in ratings the day after she released one of President Trump's tax forms. Maddow and her preceding host Chris Hayes heavily promoted Tuesday's broadcast as a "breaking" revelation, and Maddow devoted most of her program to Trump's two-page 1040 form from 2005. BREAKING: We've got Trump tax returns. Tonight, 9pm ET. MSNBC. (Seriously). — Rachel Maddow MSNBC (@maddow) March 14, 2017 "The Rachel Maddow Show" saw its ratings plummet 36 percent on Wednesday, compared to the prior night. That drop was even sharper in the key demographic of 25 to 54-year-olds, the viewership of which fell 54 percent, Sandra Smith reported. Maddow received criticism from all sides after she and journalist David Cay Johnston revealed Trump's tax forms on national television. Geraldo Rivera said it was Maddow's "Al Capone's Vault" moment, referencing a 1986 report in which he opened the mobster's vault live, to find little of value. On "The O'Reilly Factor," Bill O'Reilly said Maddow's broadcast is the latest event in a "circus of ideology and cynicism" surrounding the president. Additionally, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) pointed out that Trump's tax rate reflected on the forms was far greater than that of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), who is often critical of those who don't "pay their fair share." "Since Senator Sanders is such a good socialist, I think he'd want to pay his fair share. I'm expecting news any day that he's gonna send a couple hundred thousand into the IRS so he can pay his fair share," Paul said.

MSNBC host Rachel Maddow saw a steep drop in ratings the day after she released one of President Trump's tax forms.

Maddow and her preceding host Chris Hayes heavily promoted Tuesday's broadcast as a "breaking" revelation, and Maddow devoted most of her program to Trump's two-page 1040 form from 2005.

BREAKING: We've got Trump tax returns. Tonight, 9pm ET. MSNBC. (Seriously). — Rachel Maddow MSNBC (@maddow) March 14, 2017

Maddow on Backlash to Trump Tax Report Hype: People Expected Too Much

O'Reilly: 'The American Media Has Now Become a Circus of Ideology & Cynicism'

REACTION: Hannity, Lahren and Many More Blast Maddow's Trump Tax Hype

"The Rachel Maddow Show" saw its ratings plummet 36 percent on Wednesday, compared to the prior night.

That drop was even sharper in the key demographic of 25 to 54-year-olds, the viewership of which fell 54 percent, Sandra Smith reported.

Maddow received criticism from all sides after she and journalist David Cay Johnston revealed Trump's tax forms on national television.

Geraldo Rivera said it was Maddow's "Al Capone's Vault" moment, referencing a 1986 report in which he opened the mobster's vault live, to find little of value.

On "The O'Reilly Factor," Bill O'Reilly said Maddow's broadcast is the latest event in a "circus of ideology and cynicism" surrounding the president.

Additionally, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) pointed out that Trump's tax rate reflected on the forms was far greater than that of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), who is often critical of those who don't "pay their fair share."

"Since Senator Sanders is such a good socialist, I think he'd want to pay his fair share. I'm expecting news any day that he's gonna send a couple hundred thousand into the IRS so he can pay his fair share," Paul said.

Paul Calls Out Bernie Sanders' Tax Rate After Leak of Trump's 2005 Return

Pres. Trump Targets Snoop Dogg on Twitter Over His Shooting in Music Video

WATCH: Texas GOP Rep. Barton Tells Man to 'Shut Up' at Heated Town Hall