Travis Scott's Mother Jokingly Dragged Him for His Twitter Typos
Travis Scott's Mother Jokingly Dragged Him for His Twitter Typos
Travis Scott may have pulled off the dual combination of financial stunting and spreading Christmas cheer by purchasing his family a house back in December , but that apparently won’t spare him from his mother’s watchful eye. Travis recently shared a text exchange with his mother in which she corrected him on the kind of typos that are a regular occurrence on his Twitter feed. Forget contractions, Scott is likely to drop vowels entirely and come up with random abbreviations while sending out his Twitter missives. Perhaps that’s part of what comes with communicating with your fans on a platform limited to 140-character posts. Scott’s penchant for misspelling popped up Friday at what now looks more and more like a hint about his Quavo and Drake collaboration from Drake’s . I was once asked my fav place in America to find peace. Portland is the answer. Took a trip and found happynes pic.twitter.com/aYnBwH7D5v #happyness “I was once asked my fav place in America to find peace. Portland is the answer. Took a trip and found happynes,” Scott tweeted. He then doubled down to the typo by following up with a tweet hastagged happyness. From the looks of things, Scott’s mother got wind of his spelling fails and communicated her feelings on the matter, as Scott shared a screen capture of a text exchange with his mom. Hahaha pic.twitter.com/jgOMTIqfLH “Baby jack it’s spelt [sic] happiness u [sic] know we raised you better than that!!” her text read. Perhaps it’s better to save the whole spelled versus “spelt” or using “u” as opposed to you thing for another day, since Travis and his fans on Twitter seemed to have some fun with the whole situation. Y'all know the English vocabulary does not exist here !! @trvisXX if you say happiness is spelled happyness. then it's happyness BUT MAMA pic.twitter.com/AkOCvfi0gX Travis wrapped up the matter by tweeting a promo picture of Will Smith’s 2006 movie , which purposely misspells the word "happiness" it its title. In the film, protagonist Chris Gardner points out a mural at his son’s daycare center with the incorrect spelling of happiness. As the title indicates, the word and theme of pursuing happiness takes on a greater significance in the film’s plot. Of course, Travis Scott always has the option of enabling his phone’s auto correct feature if he so chooses.

Travis Scott may have pulled off the dual combination of financial stunting and spreading Christmas cheer by purchasing his family a house back in December, but that apparently won’t spare him from his mother’s watchful eye. Travis recently shared a text exchange with his mother in which she corrected him on the kind of typos that are a regular occurrence on his Twitter feed.

Forget contractions, Scott is likely to drop vowels entirely and come up with random abbreviations while sending out his Twitter missives. Perhaps that’s part of what comes with communicating with your fans on a platform limited to 140-character posts. Scott’s penchant for misspelling popped up Friday at what now looks more and more like a hint about his Quavo and Drake collaboration from Drake’s More Life.

I was once asked my fav place in America to find peace. Portland is the answer. Took a trip and found happynes pic.twitter.com/aYnBwH7D5v — TRAVIS SCOTT (@trvisXX) March 17, 2017



“I was once asked my fav place in America to find peace. Portland is the answer. Took a trip and found happynes,” Scott tweeted.

He then doubled down to the typo by following up with a tweet hastagged happyness.

From the looks of things, Scott’s mother got wind of his spelling fails and communicated her feelings on the matter, as Scott shared a screen capture of a text exchange with his mom.



“Baby jack it’s spelt [sic] happiness u [sic] know we raised you better than that!!” her text read.

Perhaps it’s better to save the whole spelled versus “spelt” or using “u” as opposed to you thing for another day, since Travis and his fans on Twitter seemed to have some fun with the whole situation.

Y'all know the English vocabulary does not exist here !! — TRAVIS SCOTT (@trvisXX) March 17, 2017

@trvisXX if you say happiness is spelled happyness. then it's happyness — ㅤㅤ (@MajorManiak) March 17, 2017

Travis wrapped up the matter by tweeting a promo picture of Will Smith’s 2006 movie The Pursuit of Happyness, which purposely misspells the word "happiness" it its title. In the film, protagonist Chris Gardner points out a mural at his son’s daycare center with the incorrect spelling of happiness. As the title indicates, the word and theme of pursuing happiness takes on a greater significance in the film’s plot.

Of course, Travis Scott always has the option of enabling his phone’s auto correct feature if he so chooses.