Osborne Editorship Spurs Review of U.K. Lawmakers in Second Jobs
Osborne Editorship Spurs Review of U.K. Lawmakers in Second Jobs
Former U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s appointment as editor of London’s Evening Standard is drawing scrutiny from Parliament on whether lawmakers are able to serve their constituents by holding two jobs. George Osborne In the case of Osborne, he has more than one paying post, including an advisory role at BlackRock Inc. that brings in 650,000 pounds ($800,000) a year for four days of work a month. He plans to edit the Standard four days a week while representing Tatton in northwest England in the House of Commons for which he is paid about 75,000 pounds. His latest gig has spurred a range of responses. Some members of the opposition Labour Party want him to stand down, with Stephen Kinnock saying on ITV’s “Peston on Sunday” show that he choked on his corn flakes when he heard the announcement on Friday and thought it was fake news. Former Prime Minister Tony Blair, former Labour leader, took a different line, telling BBC’s “Andrew Marr Show” it would make politics “more interesting.” The backlash may prompt action by Parliament’s Committee on Standards , including a review of the rules, according to Tommy Sheppard, who sits on the committee and is a senior member of the Scottish National Party. That could lead to a ban on lawmakers taking on more work or a cap on the hours they can spend away from their official duties, the Sunday Telegraph reported, citing Sheppard. Read about some of the earlier criticism directed at Osborne here. A Sunday Times front-page story said the privileges committee is drawing up a report that would prevent Osborne from holding his newest job. Separately, Paul Bew, chairman of the U.K. advisory Committee on Standards in Public Life, said he was “uncomfortable” with Osborne’s professional arrangement and that it was the right time to “discuss whether our rules on second jobs need to be changed in light of this,” according to the newspaper. His committee plans to meet Thursday, the Times said. The ex-chancellor was dumped by Theresa May last July after being accused by Brexit supporters of waging a fear campaign to keep Britain in the European Union, has his share of defenders and detractors in the Conservative Party. “When you’re fired as we all were last summer, what did they expect, the government? That we were all just going to disappear?” Nicky Morgan, the former education secretary, said on ITV. “No, we are going to make our voices heard, whether it’s me writing articles, whether it’s George being editor of the Evening Standard.” Ruth Davidson, leader of the Scottish branch of May’s Conservative Party, came to a different conclusion based on her decade as a journalist and her six years as a politician. “I’m not sure you can combine them both because, you know, I work a pretty busy week as it is and this week in particular, so I’m not sure you can do both at the same time, if I’m honest,” she said on the BBC.

Former U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s appointment as editor of London’s Evening Standard is drawing scrutiny from Parliament on whether lawmakers are able to serve their constituents by holding two jobs.

George Osborne Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg

In the case of Osborne, he has more than one paying post, including an advisory role at BlackRock Inc. that brings in 650,000 pounds ($800,000) a year for four days of work a month. He plans to edit the Standard four days a week while representing Tatton in northwest England in the House of Commons for which he is paid about 75,000 pounds.

His latest gig has spurred a range of responses. Some members of the opposition Labour Party want him to stand down, with Stephen Kinnock saying on ITV’s “Peston on Sunday” show that he choked on his corn flakes when he heard the announcement on Friday and thought it was fake news. Former Prime Minister Tony Blair, former Labour leader, took a different line, telling BBC’s “Andrew Marr Show” it would make politics “more interesting.”

The backlash may prompt action by Parliament’s Committee on Standards, including a review of the rules, according to Tommy Sheppard, who sits on the committee and is a senior member of the Scottish National Party. That could lead to a ban on lawmakers taking on more work or a cap on the hours they can spend away from their official duties, the Sunday Telegraph reported, citing Sheppard.

Read about some of the earlier criticism directed at Osborne here.

The most important business stories of the day. Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.

A Sunday Times front-page story said the privileges committee is drawing up a report that would prevent Osborne from holding his newest job. Separately, Paul Bew, chairman of the U.K. advisory Committee on Standards in Public Life, said he was “uncomfortable” with Osborne’s professional arrangement and that it was the right time to “discuss whether our rules on second jobs need to be changed in light of this,” according to the newspaper. His committee plans to meet Thursday, the Times said.

The ex-chancellor was dumped by Theresa May last July after being accused by Brexit supporters of waging a fear campaign to keep Britain in the European Union, has his share of defenders and detractors in the Conservative Party.

“When you’re fired as we all were last summer, what did they expect, the government? That we were all just going to disappear?” Nicky Morgan, the former education secretary, said on ITV. “No, we are going to make our voices heard, whether it’s me writing articles, whether it’s George being editor of the Evening Standard.”

Ruth Davidson, leader of the Scottish branch of May’s Conservative Party, came to a different conclusion based on her decade as a journalist and her six years as a politician.

“I’m not sure you can combine them both because, you know, I work a pretty busy week as it is and this week in particular, so I’m not sure you can do both at the same time, if I’m honest,” she said on the BBC.