Cate Blanchett's Secret to Great Skin? Consistency
Cate Blanchett's Secret to Great Skin? Consistency
It's not every day that a skin-care company crafts a product made specifically with you in mind. But then again, not everyone is Cate Blanchett . (A sad, but deeply true fact.) The 47-year-old actor, who has been the gorgeous, glow-y face of SK-II for years, and was the inspiration behind the super-luxe Japanese skin-care brand's recent Mid-Day Essence face spray , is still—if not more—in love with her beloved brand. As she tells , it's the reason her skin is the way it is today (again: gorgeously glow-y and virtually wrinkle-free), along with keeping a consistent routine , wearing lots of sunscreen, and letting the aging process, well, happen. Here, we've highlighted Blanchett's best advice for obtaining skin like hers, which is, without question, the definition of immaculate. "I love clothes and the idea of changing your hair and what you’re wearing—but I don't do that with my skin. It's a very different thing. I think consistency is a big part of making your skin more resilient . Since I've been using SK-II—my skin has taken a lot of beatings being on stage, having four children, working in fil, and traveling—and I feel like it's a lot more stable. And I can only attribute that to the consistency of using SK-II for a long time." "I’m eternally grateful that my mother always encouraged me to stay out of the sun and wear sunscreen [when I was growing up]. With very pale skin, it was especially important not to become a bronzed sun bunny. I think 90 percent of people who have issues with their skin—health-wise and also in terms of satisfaction with their complexion—are actually talking about sun damage." "I'm not a model, and I certainly was never the gorgeous girl in school. So I never thought about myself in terms of my looks. My looks have been a tool rather than the end result. They’re part of who I am, but they're not all of who I am. I feel much more pressure to do my job properly, which is to tell the story and create an interesting character. That's what I feel the pressure to do—look like the character versus look younger. It's a high road to nowhere, really. The only thing you can do is look the best you can. The rest is invisible people talking on the internet—and I don’t really listen to that." "I mask on the plane, but I wait until the lights go off. Although, sometimes I’m so desperate I can’t wait, so I'll put an eye mask on and the SK-II Facial Treatment Mask . But, up until recently, I was decanting the Facial Treatment Essence into a spray bottle, but now they’ve come out with [the Mid-Day Essence], so I’ll take that on the plane with me." "I've always been big on the vitamins my children take, but I was erratic on my own, so now I'm trying to fix that. That's my promise to myself this year—I'm going to be much more regular. I've just started taking a liquid skin vitamin, called Aethern Advanced Skin Beauty Program. I've already noticed my skin is a little brighter." "I'm not a model, and I certainly was never the gorgeous girl in school. So I never thought about myself in terms of my looks. My looks have been a tool rather than the end result. They’re part of who I am, but they're not all of who I am. I feel much more pressure to do my job properly, which is to tell the story and create an interesting character. That's what I feel the pressure to do—look like the character versus look younger. It's a high road to nowhere, really. The only thing you can do is look the best you can . The rest is invisible people talking on the internet—and I don’t really listen to that." 10 Celebrity Hairstyles That Make You Look 10 Years Younger Find the Best Haircut for Your Face Shape The 9 Prettiest Date-Night Makeup Looks 7 Weird Tricks Stars Use for Looking Great in Photos The 6 Prettiest Haircuts for Long Hair The 10 Best Mascaras Under $20

By Sarah Kinonen. Photos: Getty Images.

It's not every day that a skin-care company crafts a product made specifically with you in mind. But then again, not everyone is Cate Blanchett. (A sad, but deeply true fact.) The 47-year-old actor, who has been the gorgeous, glow-y face of SK-II for 15 years, and was the inspiration behind the super-luxe Japanese skin-care brand's recent Mid-Day Essence face spray, is still—if not more—in love with her beloved brand. As she tells Allure, it's the reason her skin is the way it is today (again: gorgeously glow-y and virtually wrinkle-free), along with keeping a consistent routine, wearing lots of sunscreen, and letting the aging process, well, happen. Here, we've highlighted Blanchett's best advice for obtaining skin like hers, which is, without question, the definition of immaculate.

1. Stay consistent.

"I love clothes and the idea of changing your hair and what you’re wearing—but I don't do that with my skin. It's a very different thing. I think consistency is a big part of making your skin more resilient. Since I've been using SK-II—my skin has taken a lot of beatings being on stage, having four children, working in fil, and traveling—and I feel like it's a lot more stable. And I can only attribute that to the consistency of using SK-II for a long time."

2. Wear your sunscreen.

"I’m eternally grateful that my mother always encouraged me to stay out of the sun and wear sunscreen [when I was growing up]. With very pale skin, it was especially important not to become a bronzed sun bunny. I think 90 percent of people who have issues with their skin—health-wise and also in terms of satisfaction with their complexion—are actually talking about sun damage."

3. Don't give into the pressure.

"I'm not a model, and I certainly was never the gorgeous girl in school. So I never thought about myself in terms of my looks. My looks have been a tool rather than the end result. They’re part of who I am, but they're not all of who I am. I feel much more pressure to do my job properly, which is to tell the story and create an interesting character. That's what I feel the pressure to do—look like the character versus look younger. It's a high road to nowhere, really. The only thing you can do is look the best you can. The rest is invisible people talking on the internet—and I don’t really listen to that."

4. Mask away—wherever you are.

"I mask on the plane, but I wait until the lights go off. Although, sometimes I’m so desperate I can’t wait, so I'll put an eye mask on and the SK-II Facial Treatment Mask. But, up until recently, I was decanting the Facial Treatment Essence into a spray bottle, but now they’ve come out with [the Mid-Day Essence], so I’ll take that on the plane with me."

5. Take your vitamins.

"I've always been big on the vitamins my children take, but I was erratic on my own, so now I'm trying to fix that. That's my promise to myself this year—I'm going to be much more regular. I've just started taking a liquid skin vitamin, called Aethern Advanced Skin Beauty Program. I've already noticed my skin is a little brighter."

6. Don't give into the pressure.

"I'm not a model, and I certainly was never the gorgeous girl in school. So I never thought about myself in terms of my looks. My looks have been a tool rather than the end result. They’re part of who I am, but they're not all of who I am. I feel much more pressure to do my job properly, which is to tell the story and create an interesting character. That's what I feel the pressure to do—look like the character versus look younger. It's a high road to nowhere, really. The only thing you can do is look the best you can. The rest is invisible people talking on the internet—and I don’t really listen to that."

This story originally appeared on Allure.

More from Allure:

10 Celebrity Hairstyles That Make You Look 10 Years Younger

Find the Best Haircut for Your Face Shape

The 9 Prettiest Date-Night Makeup Looks

7 Weird Tricks Stars Use for Looking Great in Photos

The 6 Prettiest Haircuts for Long Hair

The 10 Best Mascaras Under $20