Dozens of people have died in blazes linked to skin creams
Dozens of people have died in blazes linked to skin creams


Skin creams used to treat common conditions like eczema and psoriasis could leave people at risk of setting themselves on fire.

In a shocking revelation at least 37 deaths have been linked to the creams since 2010.

The products contain paraffin, which can soak into fabric and make it flammable.

Paraffin, which is found in skin creams, can soak into fabric and make it flammable

Coroners and regulatory agencies have repeatedly warned of the dangers skin creams like E45 - but deaths continue to occur.

The investigation, carried out by BBC Radio 5 live, asked the 53 British fire brigades how many deaths had been linked to paraffin-based skin creams since 2010.

Only six responded but revealed 37 fatal incidents - which suggests that the true scale of the problem is still underreported.

Darren Munro, borough commander for London's Wandsworth Fire Station, said: 'In four out of the last six fatalities that I've personally attended, I would say the emollient cream has had a direct result in the flame spread and the speed at which the fire took hold.

Coroners and regulatory agencies are calling for creams like E45 to be more clearly marked with warnings

'The creams themselves aren't dangerous, it only becomes dangerous when you mix it in with other factors.'

Fire chiefs have warned that even washing clothes and linen might not eliminate the danger unless they are cleaned at high temperature.

One tragic example of the dangers of skin creamed occurred at Doncaster Royal Infirmary in 2006.

Philip Hoe was being treated for psoriasis when he sneaked out for a cigarette.

Sparks reacted with the emollient cream he was covered in and within seconds Mr Hoe was on fire.

Carol Hoe, Philip's husband, said: 'I got a phone call from the ward sister to say can you get to the hospital as soon as possible, Philip's had an accident.

'Philip had caught fire. He had sneaked off onto a landing for a sneaky cigarette, a gust of wind must have caught the lighter and it set fire to him.

Philip Hoe suffered 90% burns after the spark from his cigarette reacted with the emollient cream he was being treated with

'When we got there the staff came to me and told us he was covered with 90% burns. There was nothing they could do.

'To be quiet honest I'm really angry because at the inquest, the coroner said that further steps should be taken to give people warning about this and for nearly 40 more deaths to happen after Philip I just can't understand it.'

The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency is urging manufacturers to add a warning to the packaging of any skin cream that contains packaging.

They have also added they will explore whether paraffin-based creams should carry a warning as standard.

A spokeswoman for the Proprietary Association of Great Britain said normal use of emollients within the home was safe as long as people observed the on-pack instructions.

Fire chiefs have warned that even washing the clothes or sheets may not eliminate the danger

She added: 'Manufacturers of emollients are not at present required by regulation or statue to include fire safety warnings on packaging. Safety is nonetheless of paramount importance to the OTC medicines industry.

'In light of this investigation PAGB is looking to explore this issue further with the member companies and relevant bodies to see if in future, safety warnings should be added to on-pack labeling for all paraffin based emollients as standard practice.'