HHS Secretary says passing health care bill through House and Senate 'a fine needle' to be thread
Price says passing health care bill through House and Senate 'a fine needle' to be thread
Shares               Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price acknowledged that passing the White House backed health care bill through both houses of Congress is going to be tricky, but said he is confident that the GOP plan to repeal and replace Obamacare will move forward. "So everything you do to get votes in the House, is going to cost you votes in the Senate , isn't it?" ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos pressed Price. "Well it's a fine needle that needs to be thread. There's no doubt about it," Price responded, acknowledging changes made to the bill to win over conservatives could scare off moderate Republicans.  President Trump said Friday he and GOP lawmakers made made "certain changes" to the bill. “All of these nos, or potential nos, are all yeses. Every single person sitting in this room is now a yes," the president said as he met with members of the Republican Study Committee, most of whom already supported the bill. But, any changes made to the bill to win the votes of conservatives could scare off moderate Republicans. Votes House Speaker Paul Ryan needs to pass the bill. The far-right House Freedom Caucus is still formally opposed to the bill, and made their stance clear in a tweet Friday. “The House Freedom Caucus still opposes the GOP replacement bill in its current form,” the group tweeted after Trump’s statement Friday. The House plan has also received criticism from Republican senators, including Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-Louisiana, who is concerned the House plan would make it harder for poorer, older Americans to afford insurance. "That may be the case and that’s why as it works through this legislative process, we’re looking at it and working with our legislative colleagues to make certain that we’ve got the kind of plan that actually works for people in the real world -- something that the previous administration didn’t do," Price said responding to Cassidy's concerns. "So if it needs more beefing up, as you say, for folks who are low-income between 50 and 64 years of age, that’s something that we’ve talked about, that’s something that we’ve entertained and that may happen throughout the process," Price said.     Shares                  Price says passing health care bill through House and Senate 'a fine needle' to be thread   Trump approval rating sinks to new low   Trump expected to pick George Conway, Kellyanne's husband, for key Justice Department role   Rand Paul says GOP health care bill unlikely to pass in Congress   'It never hurts to say you're sorry,' a GOP House member advises Trump   'This Week' Transcript 3-19-17: Tom Price, Sen. Rand Paul, Rep. Joaquin Castro, and Rep. Will Hurd   Pence calls on conservatives to support GOP health care bill   Fact-checking Trump's tweets: Does Germany owe NATO 'vast sums of money'?   Trump tells Merkel: 'We have something in common' in nod to wiretap claim   A timeline of Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping claims   In Minnesota, Somali community fears Trump travel ban, aid cuts will worsen their country   CBP issues requests for proposals for 'physically imposing' border wall   Former teacher may have planned alleged abduction of teen in advance: police   Jimmy Breslin, chronicler of wise guys and underdogs, dies   Man who drove up to checkpoint near White House arrested for alleged false bomb threat   Ryan: More help for older people needed in GOP health bill   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   Yoga pants, cozy clothes may be key source of sea pollution   Guinness, Airbnb offer Dublin brewery bar for 1 night only   Alaska residents warned to give grumpy moose their space

Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price acknowledged that passing the White House backed health care bill through both houses of Congress is going to be tricky, but said he is confident that the GOP plan to repeal and replace Obamacare will move forward.

"So everything you do to get votes in the House, is going to cost you votes in the Senate, isn't it?" ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos pressed Price.

"Well it's a fine needle that needs to be thread. There's no doubt about it," Price responded, acknowledging changes made to the bill to win over conservatives could scare off moderate Republicans.

President Trump said Friday he and GOP lawmakers made made "certain changes" to the bill. “All of these nos, or potential nos, are all yeses. Every single person sitting in this room is now a yes," the president said as he met with members of the Republican Study Committee, most of whom already supported the bill.

But, any changes made to the bill to win the votes of conservatives could scare off moderate Republicans. Votes House Speaker Paul Ryan needs to pass the bill.

The far-right House Freedom Caucus is still formally opposed to the bill, and made their stance clear in a tweet Friday.

“The House Freedom Caucus still opposes the GOP replacement bill in its current form,” the group tweeted after Trump’s statement Friday.

The House plan has also received criticism from Republican senators, including Sen. Bill Cassidy, R-Louisiana, who is concerned the House plan would make it harder for poorer, older Americans to afford insurance.

"That may be the case and that’s why as it works through this legislative process, we’re looking at it and working with our legislative colleagues to make certain that we’ve got the kind of plan that actually works for people in the real world -- something that the previous administration didn’t do," Price said responding to Cassidy's concerns.

"So if it needs more beefing up, as you say, for folks who are low-income between 50 and 64 years of age, that’s something that we’ve talked about, that’s something that we’ve entertained and that may happen throughout the process," Price said.