Private Equity's Indian Trilemma
Private Equity's Indian Trilemma
Private Equity's Indian Trilemma   Finance  Andy Mukherjee is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering industrial companies and financial services. He previously was a columnist for Reuters Breakingviews. He has also worked for the Straits Times, ET NOW and Bloomberg News.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  Private equity in India is beset by a trinity of predicaments. The first is what managers get paid for: finding businesses that can deliver 20 percent returns in an economy where asset valuations, at least in public markets, are already the most expensive in Asia. A bigger problem is the frustration of knowing where the winners are hidden in the balance sheets of a largely state-owned banking system, but not being able to land them. That's because lenders to these $180 billion in stressed assets could face jail time if they were to sell them at prices that would be fair to private-equity investors but too low for vigilance officers. With one government-controlled bank's former chairman arrested in January this year for making loans to the now-grounded Kingfisher Airlines Ltd., the lenders' fear is far from irrational. The third challenge is a plus-sized variant of the second, though most practitioners are coy to address it at even otherwise candid events like last Friday's Bloomberg private equity forum in Mumbai. That elephant in the room is Indian society's desire to see the rich humiliated. Economics czars in New Delhi don't get the gravity of this third vexation when they define India's current state of affairs as a twin balance-sheet problem : Companies are overextended, and banks are undercapitalized. It's actually a triple balance-sheet problem. The business owners who have welshed on their debt haven't had to make any visible personal sacrifices. Look at India's private jet market -- the spectacular growth in aircraft ownership seen between 2005 and 2010 has merely stalled. There's no sign of deleveraging. Having stoically put up with the dislocation caused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's demonetization drive, the middle class and the poor have very little appetite for forgiving the debt taken on by the rich. KKR & Co.'s India chief has given the government a plan: Move all soured debt above a limit to a government-mandated agency, and use private capital to revive the assets. For any such proposal to have popular acceptance, Modi needs to put the controlling families behind the 57 corporate accounts that require haircuts of 75 percent or more into a room with creditors and private-equity managers. The government must indemnify bank managers for the losses they'll have to take on such sales. But businessmen's personal sacrifices will also have to be part of the deal. The idea, in one sentence, should be to create a new class of corporate with the help of private equity. Get this right, and the taps to billions of dollars of global capital will open. And then, everybody in India, asset managers included, can get back to work -- free of the trilemma. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at amukherjee@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at psillitoe@bloomberg.net Biggest Ezra creditors without collateral On the Ball  Singapore: Efficient Even in Bankruptcy   Markets  Pension savings that can be withdrawn for new homes Two in One  India Property's Migraine Pill   Real Estate  Wide Open Spaces Soccer Moms Unite  Hate SUVs? Too Late   Autos  Slowing The Flow Cuts Ahoy  OPEC's Cuts Are Treading Water   Energy  Room to Run? Go West  Which U.S. Bank Is Still a Bargain?   Finance  How Far U.S. E&P Margins Per Barrel Fell Between 2014-16: Sweat '16  Shale's Mister Fix-It: Saudi Arabia   Energy  Share of Americans Who Lack Access to Fast Broadband Cutting the Cord  Millennials Might Break America's Internet   Tech  Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index Ticker Symbol Weak Bonds  Private Equity's Retail Debt Carnage   Consumer  Panmure Takeover  Diamond in the Rough   Deals  A Twinkie's Shelf Life Snapwhat  How 'Bout Those Twinkies?   Consumer  Hexagon market value Patient Capitalism  The Francois Fillon of Europe Inc.?   Tech  Proportion of Unilever shareholders wanting talks European Shareholders  Last Among Equals   Deals  No Cushion too relaxed  Evergrande's Bad Debt Tradition   Real Estate  Shanghai Pharmaceuticals shares, YTD Worrying Prognosis  China's Drugmakers Need a Panacea   Deals  Treasure Ships pump or dump  Saudi Arabia and China's Loveless Marriage   Energy  Collateral Growth GOING GLOBAL  Who Owns Chinese Bonds? You Will, and Relax   Markets  Wait and See Deal, Please?  3M Shareholders Ask and They Receive   Deals  Buy The Rumor, Buy The News Comfort Eating  Tesla's Billion-Dollar Appetizer   Autos  That's Gotta Sting  PTC Sticks Its Face in a Drug-Pricing Wasps' Nest   Health  Share Swap Bye Felicia  Starboard Was Smart to Drop Macy's   Consumer  Agarwal's Anglo stake Anglo American's Unilever Moment  Indian Billionaire Becomes an Activist Investor   Commodities  Swatch's expected sales growth Swatch's Rebound  The Smartest Watch of All   Consumer  An Oil Company That Could Use Some Oil Panic Major General  Exxon Could Use An Oil Price War   Energy  Not a Care in the World Le Shrug  There's Complacency, and Then There's This   Markets

Private equity in India is beset by a trinity of predicaments.

The first is what managers get paid for: finding businesses that can deliver 20 percent returns in an economy where asset valuations, at least in public markets, are already the most expensive in Asia.

Finding Value Amid Froth India overtakes Japan to become Asia's most expensive stock market Source: Bloomberg

A bigger problem is the frustration of knowing where the winners are hidden in the balance sheets of a largely state-owned banking system, but not being able to land them. That's because lenders to these $180 billion in stressed assets could face jail time if they were to sell them at prices that would be fair to private-equity investors but too low for vigilance officers. With one government-controlled bank's former chairman arrested in January this year for making loans to the now-grounded Kingfisher Airlines Ltd., the lenders' fear is far from irrational.

The third challenge is a plus-sized variant of the second, though most practitioners are coy to address it at even otherwise candid events like last Friday's Bloomberg private equity forum in Mumbai. That elephant in the room is Indian society's desire to see the rich humiliated.

What Indian society wants the very rich to be Humiliated

Economics czars in New Delhi don't get the gravity of this third vexation when they define India's current state of affairs as a twin balance-sheet problem: Companies are overextended, and banks are undercapitalized.

It's actually a triple balance-sheet problem. The business owners who have welshed on their debt haven't had to make any visible personal sacrifices. Look at India's private jet market -- the spectacular growth in aircraft ownership seen between 2005 and 2010 has merely stalled. There's no sign of deleveraging.

Cruising Altitude Ownership of private planes and helicopters in India grew rapidly between 2005 and 2010 Source: Business Aircraft Operators Assocation

Having stoically put up with the dislocation caused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's demonetization drive, the middle class and the poor have very little appetite for forgiving the debt taken on by the rich.

KKR & Co.'s India chief has given the government a plan: Move all soured debt above a limit to a government-mandated agency, and use private capital to revive the assets. For any such proposal to have popular acceptance, Modi needs to put the controlling families behind the 57 corporate accounts that require haircuts of 75 percent or more into a room with creditors and private-equity managers. The government must indemnify bank managers for the losses they'll have to take on such sales. But businessmen's personal sacrifices will also have to be part of the deal.

The idea, in one sentence, should be to create a new class of corporate losers with the help of private equity. Get this right, and the taps to billions of dollars of global capital will open. And then, everybody in India, asset managers included, can get back to work -- free of the trilemma.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Andy Mukherjee in Singapore at amukherjee@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Paul Sillitoe at psillitoe@bloomberg.net