This One Trick Let's You Add Live Photos to Instagram
This One Trick Let's You Add Live Photos to Instagram
The wait might be over for Instagram addicts holding out hope that the social network would one day support Live Photos . While the app still isn’t fully compatible with those miracles of motion, found a workable hack that allows users to share Live Photos with their followers. Here’s how it works: To post live photos, you have to do it in your Story. The first step is converting the photo to a Boomerang, and it has to have been taken in the last 24 hours. Once you’re in Stories, swipe up. Once you have access to your camera roll, select your photo and 3D touch the screen to convert it to a Boomerang. Then you can post it to the 'gram. Unfortunately, says that these Live Photos can’t be posted as videos on Instagram, because videos must be longer than three seconds, and Live Photos only capture 1.5 seconds of motion. So for now, the best way to get a semblance of Live Photos on your Instagram is by using the Boomerang method. But, who knows? Instagram has been known to rock our world by adding new game-changing features whenever they damn well feel like it. Could Live Photos compatibility be next? Here’s hoping.

The wait might be over for Instagram addicts holding out hope that the social network would one day support Live Photos. While the app still isn’t fully compatible with those miracles of motion, Mashable found a workable hack that allows users to share Live Photos with their followers.

Here’s how it works:

To post live photos, you have to do it in your Story. The first step is converting the photo to a Boomerang, and it has to have been taken in the last 24 hours. Once you’re in Stories, swipe up. Once you have access to your camera roll, select your photo and 3D touch the screen to convert it to a Boomerang. Then you can post it to the 'gram.

Unfortunately, Mashable says that these Live Photos can’t be posted as videos on Instagram, because videos must be longer than three seconds, and Live Photos only capture 1.5 seconds of motion. So for now, the best way to get a semblance of Live Photos on your Instagram is by using the Boomerang method.

But, who knows? Instagram has been known to rock our world by adding new game-changing features whenever they damn well feel like it. Could Live Photos compatibility be next? Here’s hoping.