Model Reveals Cellulite in Target's Newest Swimsuit Campaign
Model Reveals Cellulite in Target's Newest Swimsuit Campaign
What’s a bikini body anyway? Target is doing its part to eliminate the pervasive societal pressure to look like a supermodel in a swimsuit by proving that women of all sizes and shapes can look glorious in bikinis, monokinis, and everything in between — and have every right to feel fully empowered donning them. In its #TargetSwim campaign to promote its new swimwear line, which includes “suits for beach body under the sun,” according to its corporate site , Target has teamed up with a diverse group of body-positive models. They include television personality and former Miss Teen USA Kamie Crawford , professional skateboarder Lizzie Armanto , and dancer and YouTube star Megan Batoon . Also fronting the campaign is plus-size model Denise Bidot , who recently made a splash when she starred in a Lane Bryant campaign featuring un-retouched images that proudly displayed her cellulite and stretch marks. At the time, the curvy stunner said, “For so long society has pushed us into a corner were we couldn’t be real. We had to be Photoshopped and airbrushed to be liked and thought of as sexy. But I think we are beyond that, and we need to start encouraging women to love who they are — imperfections and all. It is amazing to see how our industry has changed. So many things that used to be not OK are now being embraced and loved equally.” Now that Target has been passed that torch, it’s using it in a fun-loving way to prove that all bodies can be bikini bodies — or one-piece bodies, if that’s your preference. “Finding your favorite style suit is important, and we’re all about offering flattering fit and cut options to help guests feel confident in their swimsuits,” Target says on its site. “After all, you look your best when you feel your best!” In an unretouched photo for the #TargetSwim campaign, Bidot is flashing a bright grin and the peace sign as she wears a high-waisted bikini like a second skin. The body activist brunette says on the site, “I feel most confident in a two-piece suit with a high waist bottom and a top that fits just right. … Once you find that perfect suit that fits just right it will give you that extra boost of confidence that will make your pool or beach day even better.” Bidot also praises Target’s varied designs, which offer flexibility so all women can feel comfortable in their swimwear — and isn’t that really what it’s all about? Armanto, as an athlete, focuses on the performance factor of the swimwear she chooses. “My favorite type of swimsuits are halter tops with bikini bottoms and one pieces. Even when I’m going to the beach to hang out, I end up being pretty active, and it feels better to have a suit on that I know is going to be secure,” she says on the site, noting that Target offers stylish options that allow freedom of movement. “I love bikinis with high-waist bottoms because I love where it hits on my waist and makes it look smaller, while still accentuating my hips,” noted Crawford. “I feel the most confident in my bikini when the fit is perfect, no matter what the style!” Batoon — wearing a striking, cut-out monokini — adds on the site, “You’re baring the most amount of skin in public when you’re in a swimsuit, so it’s important that it helps you feel confident so you can be completely yourself and enjoy every part of summer without the burden of insecurities.” Amen to that — and to Target’s inclusive approach to swimwear design. The stunning swimsuits are available now on Target’s website , and many of the styles are mix-and-match, offering even more options for women to find suits that match their proportions. And you can’t beat the prices: They range from less than $20 for a bikini top or bottom to about $50 for a one-piece. Go ahead, treat yourself — and don’t forget to share your photos. Target is encouraging customers to show off their swim style by posing in the brand’s new offerings and using the hashtag #TargetSwim. Who knows — you and your boho bikini could be the next Internet sensation.

What’s a bikini body anyway? Target is doing its part to eliminate the pervasive societal pressure to look like a supermodel in a swimsuit by proving that women of all sizes and shapes can look glorious in bikinis, monokinis, and everything in between — and have every right to feel fully empowered donning them.

In its #TargetSwim campaign to promote its new swimwear line, which includes “suits for every beach body under the sun,” according to its corporate site, Target has teamed up with a diverse group of body-positive models. They include television personality and former Miss Teen USA Kamie Crawford, professional skateboarder Lizzie Armanto, and dancer and YouTube star Megan Batoon.





Also fronting the campaign is plus-size model Denise Bidot, who recently made a splash when she starred in a Lane Bryant campaign featuring un-retouched images that proudly displayed her cellulite and stretch marks. At the time, the curvy stunner said, “For so long society has pushed us into a corner were we couldn’t be real. We had to be Photoshopped and airbrushed to be liked and thought of as sexy. But I think we are beyond that, and we need to start encouraging women to love who they are — imperfections and all. It is amazing to see how our industry has changed. So many things that used to be not OK are now being embraced and loved equally.”

Now that Target has been passed that torch, it’s using it in a fun-loving way to prove that all bodies can be bikini bodies — or one-piece bodies, if that’s your preference. “Finding your favorite style suit is important, and we’re all about offering flattering fit and cut options to help guests feel confident in their swimsuits,” Target says on its site. “After all, you look your best when you feel your best!”

In an unretouched photo for the #TargetSwim campaign, Bidot is flashing a bright grin and the peace sign as she wears a high-waisted bikini like a second skin. The body activist brunette says on the site, “I feel most confident in a two-piece suit with a high waist bottom and a top that fits just right. … Once you find that perfect suit that fits just right it will give you that extra boost of confidence that will make your pool or beach day even better.”

Bidot also praises Target’s varied designs, which offer flexibility so all women can feel comfortable in their swimwear — and isn’t that really what it’s all about?





Armanto, as an athlete, focuses on the performance factor of the swimwear she chooses. “My favorite type of swimsuits are halter tops with bikini bottoms and one pieces. Even when I’m going to the beach to hang out, I end up being pretty active, and it feels better to have a suit on that I know is going to be secure,” she says on the site, noting that Target offers stylish options that allow freedom of movement.





“I love bikinis with high-waist bottoms because I love where it hits on my waist and makes it look smaller, while still accentuating my hips,” noted Crawford. “I feel the most confident in my bikini when the fit is perfect, no matter what the style!”

Batoon — wearing a striking, cut-out monokini — adds on the site, “You’re baring the most amount of skin in public when you’re in a swimsuit, so it’s important that it helps you feel confident so you can be completely yourself and enjoy every part of summer without the burden of insecurities.”





Amen to that — and to Target’s inclusive approach to swimwear design. The stunning swimsuits are available now on Target’s website, and many of the styles are mix-and-match, offering even more options for women to find suits that match their proportions. And you can’t beat the prices: They range from less than $20 for a bikini top or bottom to about $50 for a one-piece.

Go ahead, treat yourself — and don’t forget to share your photos. Target is encouraging customers to show off their swim style by posing in the brand’s new offerings and using the hashtag #TargetSwim. Who knows — you and your boho bikini could be the next Internet sensation.

Read more from Yahoo Style + Beauty:

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day. For Twitter updates, follow @YahooStyle and @YahooBeauty.