Buddhists get tattoos redrawn at sacred Thai festival
Buddhists get tattoos redrawn at sacred Thai festival


Devoted Buddhists entered feverish trances as they recharged the 'magical protection' of their sacred tattoos last week in Thailand.

They were taking part in a spiritual festival, held every March, where monks tattoo thousands of pilgrims at Wat Bang Phra, a large Buddhist temple near Bangkok.

The body art is believed to contain supernatural powers that ward off bad luck and protect wearers from harm.

But the tattoos must be redrawn every year to maintain their magic.

Many pilgrims at the festival found themselves overcome by the power of the ink and entered a trance known as Khong Khuen - magical force rising.

They became possessed and took on the characteristics of their tattoos. Some sprinted through crowds of cross-legged believers in attempts to storm the temple's stage, only to be met by a wall of guards who held them back.

Photographer Claudio Sieber, 34, said: 'Some scenes reminded me of zombie movies like Dawn of the Dead, especially when they start crawling on the ground or running towards you. As the believers start to get possessed their eyes start to see through you, the devilish laughs making it even more dramatic.'

Dozens of paramedics were on hand at the festival to help pull the devotees out of their trance by hugging them and rubbing their ears until they returned to reality.

When it all came to a close, the monks led a prayer before the masses rushed the stage to get a blast of holy water from a high-powered hose.

A man covered in tattoos and overcome with possession prepares to charge the stage at the temple

A man collapses into waiting arms as his trance comes to an end

The pictures were taken by nomad photographer Claudio Sieber

A monk carefully pokes a tattoo as two assisting monks hold the man's skin in place

A man bows his head in silent prayer during the feverish festivities

Thousands of devout Buddhists attend the Spiritual Festival at Wat Bang Phra, near Bangkok, every March

Those who try to storm the stage are held back by a wall of temple guards and soldiers

A man is held by a paramedic, who rubs the devotees ears to pull him out of his possessed state

Some pilgrims are overcome by the power of the ink and enter a trance called Khong Khuen

A monk carefully pokes a visitor's tattoo as assistants hold him in place

The intircate Thai tattoos - called San Yant - provide different protections to their wearer

A man is calmed by an onlooker after his possession abates

A man crawling on the floor yells out as he is overcome by the power of the festival

Monks spray the crowd with holy water from a high-powered hose to conclude the festivities

A possessed man crawls toward the stage. Mr Sieber said the scenes were reminiscent of zombie films