Slain NYC medic's son: 'I know she didn't die in vain'
Slain NYC medic's son: 'I know she didn't die in vain'
Shares                The eldest son of a fire department medic fatally run over by a stolen ambulance urged her colleagues and loved ones Saturday to be humbled rather than sad in her memory. "Seeing everyone she affected, I know she didn't die in vain," Jose Montes, the eldest of slain Fire Department emergency medical technician Yadira Arroyo's five sons, told the family members and colleagues gathered at the Bronx stationhouse where the Stephen Siller Tunnel to Towers Foundation announced it was giving $100,000 to the sons. "I know my mother wouldn't have wanted people to be sad today. She would rather everyone — if you could take something from this, just let it humble you," said Montes, 24. "Just learn from this. Learn to hold your family closer every day, because life is short." Meanwhile, fire department announced funeral arrangements for Arroyo, a 14-year veteran of its emergency medical services. Her wake will be from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday and Friday at the Joseph A. Lucchese Funeral Home. Her funeral is scheduled for 11 a.m. March 25 at St. Nicholas of Tolentine Roman Catholic Church. Both are in the Bronx. Arroyo, 44, and another EMT were responding to a routine medical call Thursday when 25-year-old Jose Gonzalez hopped on the back of the ambulance, then darted into the driver's seat and ran Arroyo down after a man on the street flagged the vehicle down to say Gonzalez had stolen his backpack, authorities said. Gonzalez has been charged with murder. He told reporters Friday he was innocent, while his lawyer said he's mentally ill and didn't act intentionally. Arroyo was a dedicated EMT who responded to calls even during asthma attacks and was a mother figure to her co-workers, colleagues have said. The Stephen Siller Tunnel to Towers Foundation, named for a firefighter killed in the Sept. 11 terror attacks, honors first responders and military members. The donation is to be put in a trust for Arroyo's sons. The youngest is 7. "Me and my brothers, we're all going to stick together," Montes said. "We're going to be here for each other and support each other in every single way." Shares                  Slain NYC medic's son: 'I know she didn't die in vain'   Neil Gorsuch facing 'rigorous' confirmation hearing this week   Assad ally Russia summons Israeli diplomat over Syria strike   Jimmy Breslin, chronicler of wise guys and underdogs, dies   Ryan: More help for older people needed in GOP health bill   Former dairy farmer leads Trump-Russia investigation   SpaceX capsule returns space station science to Earth   A Muppet with autism to be welcomed soon on 'Sesame Street'   Brotherly love: Two brothers who live 1,000 miles away reunite in heartwarming viral video   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   How meditation helps military cadets be more effective warriors   Can children sleep through a smoke detector alarm?   French election: 5 top candidates to hold first debate   Effort to replace pipes to Flint homes off to slow start   Italy president hugs those like him who lost family to Mafia   Tests find drugs, alcohol in blood of Paris airport attacker   Tillerson lauds China-US contacts in meeting with leader Xi   Who's happy, who's not: Norway tops list, US falls   7-year-old boy paralyzed in car accident 'dances' again   East Timor votes for president in test for young nation   Katy Perry opens up about her sexuality   Music world remembers Chuck Berry   Suzanne Somers looks back on 40 years of 'Three's Company'

The eldest son of a fire department medic fatally run over by a stolen ambulance urged her colleagues and loved ones Saturday to be humbled rather than sad in her memory.

"Seeing everyone she affected, I know she didn't die in vain," Jose Montes, the eldest of slain Fire Department emergency medical technician Yadira Arroyo's five sons, told the family members and colleagues gathered at the Bronx stationhouse where the Stephen Siller Tunnel to Towers Foundation announced it was giving $100,000 to the sons.

"I know my mother wouldn't have wanted people to be sad today. She would rather everyone — if you could take something from this, just let it humble you," said Montes, 24. "Just learn from this. Learn to hold your family closer every day, because life is short."

Meanwhile, fire department announced funeral arrangements for Arroyo, a 14-year veteran of its emergency medical services. Her wake will be from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Thursday and Friday at the Joseph A. Lucchese Funeral Home. Her funeral is scheduled for 11 a.m. March 25 at St. Nicholas of Tolentine Roman Catholic Church. Both are in the Bronx.

Arroyo, 44, and another EMT were responding to a routine medical call Thursday when 25-year-old Jose Gonzalez hopped on the back of the ambulance, then darted into the driver's seat and ran Arroyo down after a man on the street flagged the vehicle down to say Gonzalez had stolen his backpack, authorities said.

Gonzalez has been charged with murder. He told reporters Friday he was innocent, while his lawyer said he's mentally ill and didn't act intentionally.

Arroyo was a dedicated EMT who responded to calls even during asthma attacks and was a mother figure to her co-workers, colleagues have said.

The Stephen Siller Tunnel to Towers Foundation, named for a firefighter killed in the Sept. 11 terror attacks, honors first responders and military members.

The donation is to be put in a trust for Arroyo's sons. The youngest is 7.

"Me and my brothers, we're all going to stick together," Montes said. "We're going to be here for each other and support each other in every single way."