Oregon Shakespeare Festival Season Includes a Same-Sex ‘Oklahoma!’
Oregon Shakespeare Festival Season Includes a Same-Sex ‘Oklahoma!’
“We in leadership positions,” Bill Rauch, the Oregon Shakespeare Festival’s artistic director, told The New York Times in 2015 , “need to do everything we can to reflect the world we live in.” On Friday, Mr. Rauch and his colleagues continued that push when announcing the festival’s 2018 season, which features a record five plays by women — there are 11 in total — and a production of “Oklahoma!” that has same-sex couples in leading roles. This seven-month series also offers deep explorations of Native American and African-American history. In an email on Sunday, Mr. Rauch said that he had been obsessed with introducing cross-gendered casting into “Oklahoma!” for decades, and that he began discussing the idea with Ted Chapin, president and chief creative officer of the Rodgers and Hammerstein estate, roughly a year and a half ago. Mr. Rauch became artistic director in 2007, and has since begun a number of initiatives aimed at broadening the Oregon Shakespeare Festival’s cultural reach. “American Revolutions: The U.S. History Cycle,” which began in 2008 and runs to 2018, is charged with commissioning 37 plays that dramatize moments of upheaval in American history; eight of them, including “Sweat” by Lynn Nottage and the Tony-winning “All the Way,” have moved to other theaters in the country. Advertisement “Play On!” is a three-year project that asks 36 diverse playwrights, as The Times’s Jennifer Schuessler wrote in 2016 , “to translate Shakespeare’s often knotty language, line by line, into ‘contemporary modern English.’” In the festival’s 2016 season, the bulk of theater actors came from minorities, the result of a push toward greater diversity onstage. The same is true of the 2017 season. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy In addition to the revamped “Oklahoma!,” which Mr. Rauch will direct, the 2018 Oregon Shakespeare Festival will feature the United States premiere of Frances Ya-Chu Cowhig’s “Snow in Midsummer,” a modern adaptation of “The Injustice of Dou E” by the 13th-century Chinese playwright Guan Hanqing; Idris Goodwin’s “The Way the Mountain Moved”; “Henry V,” directed by Rosa Joshi; and the world premiere of “Manahatta” by Mary Kathryn Nagle, a citizen of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma and executive director of the Yale Indigenous Performing Arts Program. “The genocide of Native American people, along with the sin of slavery, shapes every aspect of our country’s life,” Mr. Rauch said on Sunday. “Mary Kathryn Nagle and so many other Native American artists are creating vitally important work that will continue to strengthen our field, especially necessary at this time of increased polarization in our country.” Advertisement Based in Ashland, Ore., on the state’s southern border, the Oregon Shakespeare Festival was founded in 1935, making it one of the nation’s oldest and most important theater institutions. It runs from February to October with performances six days a week, for a total of roughly 800 shows annually. Beginning in June, in the Allen Elizabethan Theater, audiences can see “Romeo and Juliet,” directed by Dámaso Rodríguez; “Love’s Labour’s Lost,” directed by Amanda Dehnert; and Lauren Gunderson’s “The Book of Will,” directed by Christopher Liam Moore. According to a news release, Ms. Gunderson will be the first female playwright with an original play having its premiere on the Elizabethan Stage in its 83-year history. The 2018 program begins with Kate Hamill’s adaptation of Jane Austen’s “Sense and Sensibility” and Shakespeare’s “Othello,” as well as Karen Zacarías’s “Destiny of Desire,” a “music-filled romp,” according to the festival, “that follows the adventures of two girls secretly switched at birth one stormy night in small-town Mexico.” An earlier version of this article misstated the name of a play by Mary Kathryn Nagle. It is “Manahatta,” not “Manhatta.” A version of this article appears in print on March 20, 2017, on Page C3 of the with the headline: A Diverse Season at Shakespeare Festival.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

“We in leadership positions,” Bill Rauch, the Oregon Shakespeare Festival’s artistic director, told The New York Times in 2015, “need to do everything we can to reflect the world we live in.”

On Friday, Mr. Rauch and his colleagues continued that push when announcing the festival’s 2018 season, which features a record five plays by women — there are 11 in total — and a production of “Oklahoma!” that has same-sex couples in leading roles. This seven-month series also offers deep explorations of Native American and African-American history.

In an email on Sunday, Mr. Rauch said that he had been obsessed with introducing cross-gendered casting into “Oklahoma!” for decades, and that he began discussing the idea with Ted Chapin, president and chief creative officer of the Rodgers and Hammerstein estate, roughly a year and a half ago.

Mr. Rauch became artistic director in 2007, and has since begun a number of initiatives aimed at broadening the Oregon Shakespeare Festival’s cultural reach.

“American Revolutions: The U.S. History Cycle,” which began in 2008 and runs to 2018, is charged with commissioning 37 plays that dramatize moments of upheaval in American history; eight of them, including “Sweat” by Lynn Nottage and the Tony-winning “All the Way,” have moved to other theaters in the country.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“Play On!” is a three-year project that asks 36 diverse playwrights, as The Times’s Jennifer Schuessler wrote in 2016, “to translate Shakespeare’s often knotty language, line by line, into ‘contemporary modern English.’”

In the festival’s 2016 season, the bulk of theater actors came from minorities, the result of a push toward greater diversity onstage. The same is true of the 2017 season.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In addition to the revamped “Oklahoma!,” which Mr. Rauch will direct, the 2018 Oregon Shakespeare Festival will feature the United States premiere of Frances Ya-Chu Cowhig’s “Snow in Midsummer,” a modern adaptation of “The Injustice of Dou E” by the 13th-century Chinese playwright Guan Hanqing; Idris Goodwin’s “The Way the Mountain Moved”; “Henry V,” directed by Rosa Joshi; and the world premiere of “Manahatta” by Mary Kathryn Nagle, a citizen of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma and executive director of the Yale Indigenous Performing Arts Program.

“The genocide of Native American people, along with the sin of slavery, shapes every aspect of our country’s life,” Mr. Rauch said on Sunday. “Mary Kathryn Nagle and so many other Native American artists are creating vitally important work that will continue to strengthen our field, especially necessary at this time of increased polarization in our country.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Based in Ashland, Ore., on the state’s southern border, the Oregon Shakespeare Festival was founded in 1935, making it one of the nation’s oldest and most important theater institutions. It runs from February to October with performances six days a week, for a total of roughly 800 shows annually.

Beginning in June, in the Allen Elizabethan Theater, audiences can see “Romeo and Juliet,” directed by Dámaso Rodríguez; “Love’s Labour’s Lost,” directed by Amanda Dehnert; and Lauren Gunderson’s “The Book of Will,” directed by Christopher Liam Moore. According to a news release, Ms. Gunderson will be the first female playwright with an original play having its premiere on the Elizabethan Stage in its 83-year history.

The 2018 program begins with Kate Hamill’s adaptation of Jane Austen’s “Sense and Sensibility” and Shakespeare’s “Othello,” as well as Karen Zacarías’s “Destiny of Desire,” a “music-filled romp,” according to the festival, “that follows the adventures of two girls secretly switched at birth one stormy night in small-town Mexico.”