Queensland police search for crocodile after fisherman's body found a day after teen attack
Queensland police search for crocodile after fisherman's body found a day after teen attack
he body of a fisherman believed to have been killed by a crocodile was recovered on Monday, a day after a teen was attacked in nearby waters in Australia's north-east. Queensland authorities recovered a body believed to be that of a 35-year-old man who vanished on Saturday while spearfishing alone in waters just north of Innisfail in Far North Queensland. The man's boat was found anchored off Palmer Point, about 50km (30 miles) north of Innisfail, on Saturday evening, with his spear gun floating in the water nearby. n air and sea search was launched and officials spotted a body in the water on Monday morning, Queensland police said in a statement. “Evidence shows he may have had an incident with a crocodile, which may have resulted in his death,” Sergeant Doug Godden said during a press conference on Monday afternoon. The animal, believed to larger than four metres (13 feet) long, was found by wildlife officers near the man’s boat, Dr Matt Brien from the Department of Environment and Heritage Protection said, 9 News reported . "The animal charged and behaved quite aggressively…it appeared to have something in its mouth," Dr Brien said. A search for the crocodile believed to be responsible for the attack will be conducted on Monday night, authorities said. uthorities on Monday also said that an Australian teen, who was attacked by a crocodile after jumping into a crocodile-infested river in nearby waters on a dare, was recovering from serious wounds to his arm. ee de Paauw, an 18-year-old from Queensland state, was at a hostel in the northern Queensland town of Innisfail around 2:30am on Sunday when he started bragging that he could swim in the river, a known habitat for aggressive saltwater crocodiles, said Sophie Paterson, a British backpacker who was at the hostel. She and several others egged him on, though none of them thought he'd actually get in the water, Miss Paterson said. But get in the water he did. Seconds later, a crocodile latched onto him. "It all happened very fast. Pretty much as soon as he jumped in, there was splashing and screaming," Paterson told Queensland's Courier-Mail newspaper. "There was blood everywhere and he just wouldn't stop screaming." r De Paauw managed to pull himself out of the water. Queensland paramedic Neil Noble said the teen suffered extensive injuries to his arm, and was lucky to escape from the crocodile before the animal drowned him. Crocodiles have been a protected species in Australia since the 1970s, which has led to an explosion in their population across the country's tropical north. Because saltwater crocodiles can live up 70 years and grow throughout their lives - reaching up to 7 metres (23 feet) in length - the proportion of large crocodiles is also rising.

The body of a fisherman believed to have been killed by a crocodile was recovered on Monday, a day after a teen was attacked in nearby waters in Australia's north-east.

Queensland authorities recovered a body believed to be that of a 35-year-old man who vanished on Saturday while spearfishing alone in waters just north of Innisfail in Far North Queensland.

The man's boat was found anchored off Palmer Point, about 50km (30 miles) north of Innisfail, on Saturday evening, with his spear gun floating in the water nearby.