International Day of Happiness: 45 joyous things that will make you instantly happy
International Day of Happiness: 45 joyous things that will make you instantly happy
t's International Day of Happiness , which, given that today is Monday and we're all staring down the barrel of five long days of work, feels more like a challenge than a celebration. But challenges are there to be taken, and we're here to help you on your way. Without further ado, here's 45 bitesize dollops of happiness to get you in the swing of things ... 1. It's the first day of spring! Congratulations: you've made it through winter's dark tunnel . Things will only get lighter, warmer, more colourful and generally happier from here. 2. That BBC interview ou've seen it before and you'll see it again. A thing of rare and joyous beauty . 3. This BBC interview oesn't he do well? 4. This picture of Bill Clinton with a balloon 5. And this one 6. Boy, Bill Clinton really likes balloons via GIPHY 7. The Animaniacs atlas very country of the world, reeled off in one catchy song. (The actor who voiced Yakko did it in a single take, too.) 8. Stevie Wonder's For Once In My Life e challenge you to listen and not smile 9. The colour orange ommonly associated with feelings of warmth and excitement 10. Marcel Desailly laughing his way around the world 11. This graph ... hich shows that a smaller percentage of the world's population is living in poverty than at any time in the past 200 years 12. And this graph ... hich shows that child mortality is consistently falling year on year 13. And this graph ... hich shows that more people can read than ever before 14. See? The world's not such a bad place after all nd it's also stunningly beautiful to behold 15. Anyway, back to the funny with this video... 16. ...and the top comment beneath it 17. This gif of cows licking a dog ike it's one of their own 18. Louis Armstrong singing What A Wonderful World wonderful performance of a wonderful song by a wonderful musician 19. Dr Seuss's life philosophy in one bitesize quote "Be who you are and say what you feel, because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind." 20. 'Look at all those' eadphones on, sound up, watch until the end... 21. A very chilled surfing video lay spot the rainbow as you watch Teahupo'o, Du Ciel from SURFING Magazine on Vimeo . 22. This picture f a boy helping his pet chick to smell a flower. (Want another dollop of happiness? The chick is called Biscuit. Ahhhh.) 23. This cunning life hack Rt to save a life pic.twitter.com/mqaCtoWG17 24. A baby's laugh 25. Another baby's laugh 26. And another baby's laugh 27. Should we stop yet? 28. A calming manatee rom calmingmanatee.com . Really, you could just spend all day there summoning calming manatees. 29. Alex Salmond kicking a football ... ... however bad you are at football, you can always remember: Alex Salmond is worse. 30. This man seeing colours for the first time 31. Everybody Wants To Be A Cat by The Aristocats "I've heard some corny birds who tried to sing / but a cat's the only cat who knows how to swing" 32. The weather forecast in Haiti corchio... 33. A dog in Converse 34. Plan a trip o it now, in your mind. Where do you want to go? How do you want to get there? What do you want to do once you're there? he beauty of this one is that you should already be feeling happier, without having spent any money or actually going on the trip. According to a study , just thinking about doing something you want to do – like taking a holiday, or watching a beloved film – raises endorphin levels by 27 percent. You're welcome. 35. Xabi Alonso's chuckle 36. Men singing 'Can you feel the love?' n a coffee shop 37. The fact that Leicester won the Premier League t odds of 5000/1. Regardless of who you support or how much/little you care about sport, it is probably the feelgood sports story to end all feelgood sports stories. 38. Drive by compliments ... ... that are offered – and accepted – in the spirit of happiness 39. Bill Murray singing about Happy Street chirpy little ditty from a man who knows how to live the life euphoric 40. A picture of a kitten in a sunny field 41. The sheer passion of this trainspotter 42. Carlton's dance in Fresh Prince 43. The evolution of dance 44. A stealthy cat 45. Smile eah, we know: we sound like that random in the street who tells you to "cheer up, it might never happen", thus sending you into a spiral of angst and fury. You were perfectly fine, thank-you-very-much, and who does this person think he is, telling you to cheer up? You can do what you jolly well wish, which right now just so happens to be scowl and mutter, all because someone's told you to smile. nyway, here's the thing: smiling really does make you smile. The brain is always looking for biofeedback, which means signs from the external world that the body is doing well and coping with its environment. Smile and your brain gets tricked into thinking it's happy. Which it now is.

It's International Day of Happiness, which, given that today is Monday and we're all staring down the barrel of five long days of work, feels more like a challenge than a celebration.

But challenges are there to be taken, and we're here to help you on your way. Without further ado, here's 45 bitesize dollops of happiness to get you in the swing of things ...

1. It's the first day of spring!

Congratulations: you've made it through winter's dark tunnel. Things will only get lighter, warmer, more colourful and generally happier from here.