What? You're Not Invested In Foreign Stocks? Why You Should Be, And How To Do It
What? You're Not Invested In Foreign Stocks? Why You Should Be, And How To Do It
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Larry Light       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Should I invest in international stocks? The question is understandable because international stock markets in aggregate have under-performed their United States counterparts for several years. But Americans tend to be leery about investing abroad, figuring that  these are exotic markets they can’t understand. GEOFFROY VAN DER HASSELT/AFP/Getty Images) But the truth is that we use products made by foreign companies every day. They’re not so exotic after all. What’s more, a lot of them trade stock on U.S. exchanges, sometimes in what are called American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs. Some can be bought on the over-the-counter market. U.S, and foreign stocks often don't trade in tandem, so owning good European and Asian shares will help diversify your portfolio. This is the best gift you can give yourself to bolster your retirement kitty. To see how familiar t these companies are, let’s look at a day in the life at a fictitious couple here in the United States to see the daily interactions that are possible with products sold by publicly traded international companies.  In doing so, I hope to demonstrate the benefits of holding ownership in the strong well-financed publicly traded international companies. A day in the life: John and Mary are awakened for the day by their clock radio.  (Panasonic  is a Japanese multinational electronics corporation).  John turns on the television to see the news from overnight. (Japanese Sony is ranked 116th on the 2015 list of Fortune Global 500 and employs 125,000 employees). As they dress, John gets into a suit (Hugo Boss is a German luxury fashion house founded in 1924) , and Mary dresses in (French Christian Dior, is a luxury goods company.) Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Far away places with strong sounding names. Americans like to travel overseas, but not invest there. Dan Crimmins of Crimmins Wealth Management in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., has some good advice on why you should invest in non-U.S. companies, many of which you encounter every day at home:

Should I invest in international stocks?

The question is understandable because international stock markets in aggregate have under-performed their United States counterparts for several years. But Americans tend to be leery about investing abroad, figuring that these are exotic markets they can’t understand.

But the truth is that we use products made by foreign companies every day. They’re not so exotic after all. What’s more, a lot of them trade stock on U.S. exchanges, sometimes in what are called American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs. Some can be bought on the over-the-counter market. U.S, and foreign stocks often don't trade in tandem, so owning good European and Asian shares will help diversify your portfolio. This is the best gift you can give yourself to bolster your retirement kitty.

To see how familiar t these companies are, let’s look at a day in the life at a fictitious couple here in the United States to see the daily interactions that are possible with products sold by publicly traded international companies. In doing so, I hope to demonstrate the benefits of holding ownership in the strong well-financed publicly traded international companies.

A day in the life: John and Mary are awakened for the day by their Panasonic clock radio. (Panasonic is a Japanese multinational electronics corporation). John turns on the Sony television to see the news from overnight. (Japanese Sony is ranked 116th on the 2015 list of Fortune Global 500 and employs 125,000 employees).

As they dress, John gets into a Hugo Boss suit (Hugo Boss is a German luxury fashion house founded in 1924) , and Mary dresses in Dior (French Christian Dior, is a luxury goods company.)