Tiger Woods Hopes to Play in 2017 Masters, Beats Michael Strahan in Putting
Tiger Woods Hopes to Play in 2017 Masters, Beats Michael Strahan in Putting
The whirlwind 2017 season for Tiger Woods took him to New York on Monday for an appearance on , where he briefly touched on his desire to play in the Masters in two weeks. Here was Woods' response when Michael Strahan asked him about being ready to play in Augusta: WATCH: "God I hope so...it's meant so much to me" @TigerWoods on competing in @TheMasters this year: https://t.co/T3gtmmd6PF https://t.co/zPSD0HLuiq Brian Wacker of reported Friday that odds were against Woods being able to play in the Masters. He " WATCH: @TigerWoods vs @MichaelStrahan in @GMA putting challenge + @sarahaines vs @JessepalmerABC in golf-commentating voice challenge 😂 https://t.co/AeA7Mxh7dg Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Gregory Bull/Associated Press

Adam Wells Featured Columnist

The whirlwind 2017 season for Tiger Woods took him to New York on Monday for an appearance on Good Morning America, where he briefly touched on his desire to play in the Masters in two weeks.

Here was Woods' response when Michael Strahan asked him about being ready to play in Augusta:

Brian Wacker of Golf Digest reported Friday that odds were against Woods being able to play in the Masters. He "has not been able to play or practice" since back spasms forced him to withdraw after the first round of the Dubai Desert Classic in February.

Wacker reported Woods "doesn't look close to being ready and that a return at the Masters would be too soon" and "all Woods has been able to do of late is putt."

Woods showed off his putting skills against Strahan, defeating the NFL Hall of Famer in a putting challenge with the help of extra time after the 30-second limit expired:

Mark Steinberg, Woods' agent, issued a statement to Tim Rosaforte of the Golf Channel disputing Wacker's report:

I have no idea who Mr. Wacker's really close sources are. I can tell you this: Nobody spoke to him [Wacker], so how he could know something that Tiger and I don't know is comical. I talked to Tiger four hours ago on the phone. We're not in a situation to even talk about playing in the Masters now. He's gotten treatments and is progressing and hoping he can do it. There's not been a decision one way or the other. I couldn't give you a fair assessment, but to say it's doubtful is an absolutely inaccurate statement.

Woods was scheduled to play in the Genesis Open, Honda Classic and Arnold Palmer Invitational but wasn't physically ready.

After missing the entire 2016 PGA Tour season following back surgery, Woods returned to the PGA Tour for the Hero World Challenge last December. He finished 15th in a 17-man field and missed the cut at the Farmers Insurance Open at the end of January.