Didi Gregorius leaves WBC, returns to New York Yankees because of shoulder injury
Gregorius out of WBC with shoulder injury
Gregorius out of WBC with shoulder injury From 'insult' to injury, what can Angels expect from Albert Pujols? Jason Heyward's swing makeover: Did it actually work? Bryce Harper vs. Manny Machado: Who would you rather have? WBC viewer's guide: What to watch for in championship round Team USA answers critics with inspired win, advances to WBC semis Why the Yankees won't call on Gleyber Torres ... yet MLB facts you need to know Zimmer brothers battling to take competition to the majors The player each MLB team should want up with the game on the line 2017 Fantasy Baseball Draft Kit Zack Greinke dials up the heat against the Netherlands Dethroned Felix Hernandez trying to get back up to speed Is WBC participation a greater injury risk? Michael Pineda learned English the hard way Yankees toss combined no-hitter Timing is everything for late-blooming Justin Turner The legend of Edwin Diaz Uni Watch: The evolution of the MLB uniform To grieve Jose Fernandez's death, Giancarlo Stanton took life-changing journey Jobs in jeopardy as Baby Bombers challenge Yankees veterans Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment New York Yankees shortstop Didi Gregorius has an injured throwing shoulder and will not play for the Netherlands in the final round of the World Baseball Classic. A preliminary MRI revealed that Gregorius has a hematoma of the subscapularis muscle in his right shoulder, Yankees manager Joe Girardi told reporters Monday. Yankees general manager Brian Cashman told ESPN's Andrew Marchand that even if Gregorius is out to begin the season, top prospect Gleyber Torres will not be the team's Opening Day shortstop. Gregorius will leave the Netherlands' WBC team and return to the Yankees' spring training headquarters in Tampa, Florida, to undergo further tests, according to Girardi. The five-year veteran initially felt pain in his shoulder Saturday during a WBC exhibition and underwent the initial MRI on Sunday. Gregorius, 27, batted .348 with one home run and eight RBIs for the Netherlands, which will play Puerto Rico in the WBC semifinals Monday night. Torres, 20, entered Monday hitting .444 in 27 spring training at-bats but is expected to start the season at Double-A Trenton. Ronald Torreyes and Ruben Tejada both are on the Yankees' roster and have major league experience at shortstop. New York's minor league system also is very deep at the position. The closest player to the majors is Tyler Wade, whom the Yankees have been trying to turn into a utility player similar to Cubs infielder Ben Zobrist . Wade has hit .419 in 31 spring at-bats. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

New York Yankees shortstop Didi Gregorius has an injured throwing shoulder and will not play for the Netherlands in the final round of the World Baseball Classic.

A preliminary MRI revealed that Gregorius has a hematoma of the subscapularis muscle in his right shoulder, Yankees manager Joe Girardi told reporters Monday.

Yankees general manager Brian Cashman told ESPN's Andrew Marchand that even if Gregorius is out to begin the season, top prospect Gleyber Torres will not be the team's Opening Day shortstop.

Editor's Picks Why the Yankees won't call on Gleyber Torres ... yet Easy, Bronx Bombers fans. If Didi Gregorius isn't ready for Opening Day, the team's top infield prospect won't be in the lineup instead.

Gregorius will leave the Netherlands' WBC team and return to the Yankees' spring training headquarters in Tampa, Florida, to undergo further tests, according to Girardi. The five-year veteran initially felt pain in his shoulder Saturday during a WBC exhibition and underwent the initial MRI on Sunday.

Gregorius, 27, batted .348 with one home run and eight RBIs for the Netherlands, which will play Puerto Rico in the WBC semifinals Monday night.

Torres, 20, entered Monday hitting .444 in 27 spring training at-bats but is expected to start the season at Double-A Trenton.

Ronald Torreyes and Ruben Tejada both are on the Yankees' roster and have major league experience at shortstop.

New York's minor league system also is very deep at the position. The closest player to the majors is Tyler Wade, whom the Yankees have been trying to turn into a utility player similar to Cubs infielder Ben Zobrist. Wade has hit .419 in 31 spring at-bats.

ESPN's Andrew Marchand contributed to this report.