The ‘yellowface’ row proved British theatre is stuck in the past - but could a new play bring it forward?
The ‘yellowface’ row proved British theatre is stuck in the past - but could a new play bring it forward?
hen a London theatre used a cast of all-white actors for a play set in ancient China, it sparked a major backlash. Film and TV stars turned out in force this January to protest the “yellowface” show at the Print Room in Notting Hill . But now a theatre company who helped to lead that protest are now staging their own production – and it couldn’t be more different. “I think it’s time for British East Asian actors – and in particular women – to take their place in the classics,” says Kumiko Mendl. Mendl is the artistic director of Yellow Earth, the company staging a radical, minimalist new take on Christopher Marlowe’s 16 century epic Tamburlaine, the story of a bloodthirsty Asian emperor. The play is set in a Peter Brook -esque empty space, and has a British Asian cast led by 42-year-old actress Lourdes Faberes as the titular warlordled by 42-year-old actress Lourdes Faberes as the titular...

When a London theatre used a cast of all-white actors for a play set in ancient China, it sparked a major backlash. Film and TV stars turned out in force this January to protest the “yellowface” show at the Print Room in Notting Hill.

But now a theatre company who helped to lead that protest are now staging their own production – and it couldn’t be more different.

“I think it’s time for British East Asian actors – and in particular women – to take their place in the classics,” says Kumiko Mendl. Mendl is the artistic director of Yellow Earth, the company staging a radical, minimalist new take on Christopher Marlowe’s 16th century epic Tamburlaine, the story of a bloodthirsty Asian emperor.

The play is set in a Peter Brook-esque empty space, and has a British Asian cast led by 42-year-old actress Lourdes Faberes as the titular warlordled by 42-year-old actress Lourdes Faberes as the titular...