Trump-Russia hearing live: FBI director Comey confirms investigation into Trump campaign

in New York                                      Now Trey Gowdy, the Republican from South Carolina, is at bat. He says that Fisa and other surveillance programs are “intentionally designed” to preserve the privacy of US citizens. Gowdy to Comey, on the gravity of leaking classified material: We are going to give you the tools and government in return promises to safeguard the privacy of US citizens. And when that agreement is broken, it violates the trust... Gowdy has brandished the terrifying prospect of the government breaking its promise to safeguard the privacy of US citizens as it conducts surveillance.      Shaun Walker Not much coverage of the hearing here in Russia; currently the only US story on Russia’s main state news site is that Trump accused Clinton of collusion with Russia. [In this tweet from this morning:] What about all of the contact with the Clinton campaign and the Russians? Also, is it true that the DNC would not let the FBI in to look? In general, news from the US and the positive news coverage we saw of Trump here in the first weeks after his election has been toned down in recent weeks. We’re back to the image of the US as Russia’s main enemy. Updated       Republicans focus on how intelligence about Michael Flynn emerged Now Rooney turns specifically to General Flynn, the former national security adviser whose career fell apart when it emerged he had been having contact with the Russian ambassador he’d denied having. He asks who would unmask General Flynn if he was under surveillance. Rogers says he could do it or 19 others could do it, within the NSA. He’s asked whether former director of national intelligence James Clapper or others would be able to unmask Flynn. Would leaking of a US person who has been unmasked and disseminated.. would that leaking to the press hurt or help our conduct of intelligence... Rogers says “hurt.” Rooney: Would such a leak harm national security? Rogers: Yes. Rooney: Why would someone leak the identity of a US person? Rogers: No idea. We do not engage in this activity on principle. Rooney: “For those who break that sacred trust, if they are not held accountable.. it is very difficult for us to be able to keep that sacred trust.”      We just heard that the (the president himself?) for election-year ties to Russia. The first questions, however – from the Republicans who control the committee – don’t touch on that historic news, instead focusing on the mechanics of intelligence collection and leaks: Right after the FBI confirms probe that has been reported on through leaks, hearing pivots to focusing on said leaks, not said probe True colors of committee Republicans shining through https://t.co/i7EU5nf3CG      Transcript: Comey confirms investigation James Comey's statement acknowledging @FBI investigation into Trump campaign, Russia, 2016 meddling "& whether there was any coordination." pic.twitter.com/Ry3Vvbszv8      #FF NSA's Rogers, translated: if you cut back our key authorities (Sec702 & EO 12333), you'll regret it.      Tom Rooney, Republican of Florida, the chairman of the subcommittee overseeing NSA, is asking Rogers about the rules pertaining to the surveillance of a US person (the designation includes US corporations ... thanks Mitt Romney!). Rogers is describing the rules and how carefully the NSA follows them. Updated       Nunes says he’s very concerned about “widespread illegal leaks.” He asks Comey whether those leaks violate the law. “Yes,” Comey says. Nunes wants it on the record.      Russia did not change vote tallies in swing states – intelligence chiefs Nunes asks Rogers, citing 6 January 2017 intelligence report that found Russia did not attack systems involved in vote tallying, whether: Did Russia change vote totals in Michigan? Wow. Pennsylvania? Wisconsin? Florida? North Carolina? Ohio? All “No, Sirs” from Rogers. No intelligence that suggests any votes were changed? No. Comey also says no. Updated       “Leaks of classified information are serious, serious crimes,” Comey says.      Comey confirms FBI investigation into Trump campaign links to Russia during election Here’s Comey. Bombshell confirmation right off the top: “Our practice is not to confirm existence of ongoing investigations,” he begins (cough Clinton’s emails cough). “But in unusual circumstances where it is in the public interest” we go public, he says. Then he announces: I have been authorized by the DoJ to confirm that the FBI ... is investigating the Russian government’s attempts to interfere in the 2016 election ... That includes any links between the Trump campaign ... This will also include an assessment of whether any crimes were committed. He calls it an “open, ongoing investigation”. Updated   US politics   House of Representatives   US Senate   US Congress   Donald Trump   US supreme court

14:55

The Guardian’s Shaun Walker writes from Russia:

Not much coverage of the hearing here in Russia; currently the only US story on Russia’s main state news site is that Trump accused Clinton of collusion with Russia.

[In this tweet from this morning:]

Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) What about all of the contact with the Clinton campaign and the Russians? Also, is it true that the DNC would not let the FBI in to look?

In general, news from the US and the positive news coverage we saw of Trump here in the first weeks after his election has been toned down in recent weeks. We’re back to the image of the US as Russia’s main enemy.