Tom Brady's stolen Super Bowl jersey found in possession of international media member
Brady's stolen Super Bowl jerseys recovered
Brady's stolen Super Bowl jerseys recovered Ray Rice on why he's not playing: 'It ain't because I'm a bad football player' Ryan Kalil on brother Matt: 'My problem to make sure he doesn't light himself on fire' Damontre Moore hopes Cowboys are the final chapter to his comeback story Colts furthest from being Super Bowl contenders with Andrew Luck since 2012 To lift offense, Broncos know they must improve running game From $35.28 to $371K: NFL's smallest, biggest performance bonuses Bucs show they mean business bringing in real competition for Roberto Aguayo New Falcon Dontari Poe will slim down, get ready to 'play ball' Alabama TE O.J. Howard could have most immediate impact on Panthers Making sense of how Malcolm Butler and Patriots are on verge of a split Jared Cook eager to join Amari Cooper and barter for his No. 89 Did Chiefs choose Bennie Logan over Dontari Poe? Should Ravens continue to go 'Chargers East' by adding King Dunlap? Why Adrian Peterson would not be a strong fit for the Detroit Lions Baldwin: Sherman sometimes lets his pride get in the way Giants banking on Brandon Marshall to be their free-agent savior If not Tony Romo, then who starts at QB for Texans? Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Darren Rovell ESPN.com's sports business reporter since 2012; previously at ESPN from 2000-06 Appears on SportsCenter, ESPN Radio, ESPN.com and with ABC News Formerly worked as analyst at CNBC Mike Reiss Covered Patriots since 1997 Joined ESPN in 2009 Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Tom Brady 's stolen jersey from this year's historic Super Bowl has been recovered after being found in the possession of an unidentified member of the international media, according to the NFL. The league announced Monday that Brady's game-worn jerseys from Super Bowl LI and another, missing from Super Bowl XLIX, were retrieved after an investigation led by the FBI. The jerseys were found in Mexico and currently are being authenticated by authorities, Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo said. He also tweeted about the recovery of the jerseys. Proud @houstonpolice Major Offenders Divison traced Brady Jersey to Mexico & it has been recovered with help of FBI & Mexican authorities. — Chief Art Acevedo (@ArtAcevedo) March 20, 2017 "Through the cooperation of the NFL and New England Patriots ' security teams, the FBI and other law enforcement authorities, the Super Bowl LI jersey worn last month by MVP Tom Brady has been recovered," the NFL said in its statement. "Also retrieved during the ongoing investigation was the jersey Brady wore in the Patriots' victory in Super Bowl XLIX against the Seattle Seahawks in 2015. "The items were found in the possession of a credentialed member of the international media. Due to the ongoing investigation, we would refer any additional questions to the FBI." Following the Patriots' 34-28 victory over the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI, Brady immediately realized his jersey was taken from a bag he had put it in in the locker room. "It's unfortunate, because that's a nice piece of memorabilia," Brady told the media a day later. "If it shows up on eBay or something, somebody let me know. I'll try to track that down. ... Those are pretty special ones to keep. But what can you do? I'll take the ring. That's good enough for me." A week later, Patriots owner Robert Kraft, on the Fox Business Network, compared taking the Brady jersey to "taking a great Chagall or Picasso." In its report, the Houston Police assigned a value of $500,000 to the jersey, the same number sports auctioneer Ken Goldin, who has sold game-used Brady jerseys before, said he believed it was worth if it were to hit the open market. Game-used Brady jerseys from regular season games have been sold in the $50,000 range. The Houston police classified the alleged theft of Brady's Super Bowl LI jersey as a first-degree felony. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Tom Brady's stolen jersey from this year's historic Super Bowl has been recovered after being found in the possession of an unidentified member of the international media, according to the NFL.

The league announced Monday that Brady's game-worn jerseys from Super Bowl LI and another, missing from Super Bowl XLIX, were retrieved after an investigation led by the FBI.

The jerseys were found in Mexico and currently are being authenticated by authorities, Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo said.

He also tweeted about the recovery of the jerseys.

Proud @houstonpolice Major Offenders Divison traced Brady Jersey to Mexico & it has been recovered with help of FBI & Mexican authorities. — Chief Art Acevedo (@ArtAcevedo) March 20, 2017

"Through the cooperation of the NFL and New England Patriots' security teams, the FBI and other law enforcement authorities, the Super Bowl LI jersey worn last month by MVP Tom Brady has been recovered," the NFL said in its statement. "Also retrieved during the ongoing investigation was the jersey Brady wore in the Patriots' victory in Super Bowl XLIX against the Seattle Seahawks in 2015.

"The items were found in the possession of a credentialed member of the international media. Due to the ongoing investigation, we would refer any additional questions to the FBI."

Following the Patriots' 34-28 victory over the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI, Brady immediately realized his jersey was taken from a bag he had put it in in the locker room.

"It's unfortunate, because that's a nice piece of memorabilia," Brady told the media a day later. "If it shows up on eBay or something, somebody let me know. I'll try to track that down. ... Those are pretty special ones to keep. But what can you do? I'll take the ring. That's good enough for me."

A week later, Patriots owner Robert Kraft, on the Fox Business Network, compared taking the Brady jersey to "taking a great Chagall or Picasso."

In its report, the Houston Police assigned a value of $500,000 to the jersey, the same number sports auctioneer Ken Goldin, who has sold game-used Brady jerseys before, said he believed it was worth if it were to hit the open market. Game-used Brady jerseys from regular season games have been sold in the $50,000 range.

The Houston police classified the alleged theft of Brady's Super Bowl LI jersey as a first-degree felony.