Doctor Wait Times Soar 30% In Major U.S. Cities
Doctor Wait Times Soar 30% In Major U.S. Cities
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Bruce Japsen       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Cities With The Longest Wait Time To See A Doctor , according to a study of commonly used specialty physicians in 15 major U.S. cities. amid a national doctor shortage fueled by aging baby boomers, population growth and millions of Americans with health insurance. The survey by MerrittHawkins , a unit of healthcare staffing firm AMN Healthcare polled more than 1,400 physicians looking at average wait times among five specialties: family medicine, dermatology, obstetrics/gynecology, orthopedic surgery and cardiology. The analysis comes as the Republican-led Congress pushes ahead with plans to replace the Affordable Care Act with the American Health Care Act, also known as Trumpcare. The Congressional Budget Office last week said the AHCA -- developed by Speaker Paul Ryan and lieutenants in the U.S. House and endorsed by Donald Trump – would cause 24 million Americans to join the ranks of the uninsured by 2026. A House vote is scheduled for this week. to schedule an appointment with a family physician, dermatologist, cardiologist, orthopedic surgeon or obstetrician/gynecologist. “Growing physician appointment wait times are significant indicator that the nation is experiencing a shortage of physicians,” said Mark Smith, president of MerrittHawkins. A patient waits in doctor practice waiting room. (Shutterstock photo) Because the ACA expanded coverage and is one reason doctor wait times are up, it’s unclear whether reducing health benefits would have the opposite impact.  A physician shortage existed long before the ACA was signed into law by President Barack Obama. Analysts don’t expect that to improve until more federal dollars flow to expand residency programs that are funded by Medicare, which capped spending on doctors-in-training more than 20 years ago under the 1997 Balanced Budget Act. The Association of American Medical Colleges last week came out with its latest report, projecting a shortage of between 40,800 and 104,900 doctors by 2030. At that time, Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Patients are waiting an average of 24 days to schedule an appointment with a doctor , according to a study of commonly used specialty physicians in 15 major U.S. cities.

The time to schedule an appointment has jumped 30% in 15 U.S. metropolitan areas from 18.5 days in 2014 amid a national doctor shortage fueled by aging baby boomers, population growth and millions of Americans with health insurance. The survey by MerrittHawkins, a unit of healthcare staffing firm AMN Healthcare polled more than 1,400 physicians looking at average wait times among five specialties: family medicine, dermatology, obstetrics/gynecology, orthopedic surgery and cardiology.

The analysis comes as the Republican-led Congress pushes ahead with plans to replace the Affordable Care Act with the American Health Care Act, also known as Trumpcare. The Congressional Budget Office last week said the AHCA -- developed by Speaker Paul Ryan and lieutenants in the U.S. House and endorsed by Donald Trump – would cause 24 million Americans to join the ranks of the uninsured by 2026. A House vote is scheduled for this week.

The longest wait to see a doctor was in Boston where the average wait was 52 days to schedule an appointment with a family physician, dermatologist, cardiologist, orthopedic surgeon or obstetrician/gynecologist.

“Growing physician appointment wait times are significant indicator that the nation is experiencing a shortage of physicians,” said Mark Smith, president of MerrittHawkins.

Because the ACA expanded coverage and is one reason doctor wait times are up, it’s unclear whether reducing health benefits would have the opposite impact. A physician shortage existed long before the ACA was signed into law by President Barack Obama. Analysts don’t expect that to improve until more federal dollars flow to expand residency programs that are funded by Medicare, which capped spending on doctors-in-training more than 20 years ago under the 1997 Balanced Budget Act.

The Association of American Medical Colleges last week came out with its latest report, projecting a shortage of between 40,800 and 104,900 doctors by 2030. At that time, the AAMC said there will be a shortage of between 7,300 and 43,100 primary care doctors.