The Newest Spring Beauty Launches Most Loved by Katy Perry, J.Lo & More
The Newest Spring Beauty Launches Most Loved by Katy Perry, J.Lo & More
The Newest Spring Beauty Launches Most Loved by Katy Perry, J.Lo & More  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Despite the currently frigid cold of New York City, spring is just around the corner, and not just because the groundhog said so. Here at , we know spring has sprung when the newest beauty products hitting our desks are innovative, just or soon-to-be launched versions of this season's most popular winter essentials; we're talking cushiony K-pop style hyaluronic-infused serums from -loved brand , tinted cheek colors packaged as portable finger paints fresh out of millennial-fave 's HQ, and even Coachella-inspired bronzers from California-based , for those anxiously awaiting festival season. Check out our favorites below. Thanks to some serious die-hards like Chloe x Halle and , Glossier has gone from former beauty editor Emily Weiss' brainchild to a rapidly growing Forbes 30 Under 30 beauty startup. The brand's newest launch (March 1) is their innovative "cloud paint," a gel-meets-powder formulation that melts into your skin but stays all day. At $18 a tube, they're accessible enough to buy two and blend together. Our favorites are "Beam," an orange creamsicle color, and "Puff," the ultimate cotton-candy pink. ( ) is the ultimate in luxury, celebrity skincare. Helmed by , a student of 's for over 15 years, the brand was launched in 1998 when de Gunzburg was still the creative director of YSL Beaute. Now, 13 years after coming up with the legendary Baume de Rose for lips in 2004, de Gunzburg brings her covetable cream to the body. With the freshly picked rose scent and a celebrity following that includes the likes of Katy Perry and , we promise this creme de corps is worth every penny. ( ) In honor of International Women's Day and #ADayWithoutAWoman, , the longtime NYC-based skincare brand over 150 years old and beloved by celebs like Justin Timberlake, launched a limited-edition . One balm is the perfect kiss of raspberry-red rose, and the other is an untinted version perfect alone or over lipstick. The best part about the product is that for every unit of Butterstick Duos sold, Kiehl's will donate 10 percent of net proceeds, up to $25,000, to Bright Pink , a nonprofit organization dedicated to educating women on early prevention and detection of ovarian and breast cancer. Then, in October for Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Kiehl's will donate another $25,000 to Bright Pink. ( ) California cult favorite cosmetics is known for their insanely adorable packaging and well-formulated products, including their longtime classic, Benetint , and natural-looking bronzer, Hoola . Coming this April, Benefit's newest addition to their obsession-worthy blush-bronzer collection is GALifornia, a perfect -themed, Joni Mitchell -inspired box of coral pink blush and golden highlight shaped into a medallion that's prime for swirling and popping on cheekbones. ( For Sarah Lee and Christine Chang, co-founders of premiere natural Korean beauty e-commerce blog , "hyphenates" are everything. "These are multi-benefit, multi-tasking wonders that don't compromise on efficacy," Sarah tells Along with a stock of some super impressive hyphenates -- we're talking products like "pressed serums" and "essence waters" -- Lee and Chang both agree that one of their newest curations, the Blithe Anti- Polluaging Himalayan Pink Salt Cleansing Water , definitely tops their list. A cross between an essence and micellular water, this product uses hydrating pink salt to pull out pollutants and excess oil from the skin while moisturizing with 10 different botanical extracts. ( ) The newest addition to 's best-selling , this works exactly how it sounds: a sheer yet pigmented liquid that easily blends into skin for a natural and finish. Singer and actress Ruby Rose has been the face of UD for over a year now--the partnership started when Rose launched her VICE Lipstick collaboration -- but has been using their creamy, vegan, products for much longer. "What really got me was they're cruelty-free," Rose told . ( ) If you're a beauty addict and/or K-pop obsessed like we are, you know that while pop stars like CL and Lee-Hi are only growing in popularity, Korean Beauty has taken the mass and prestige beauty markets by storm. The J. One Jelly Pack (in white) was one of Sephora's best-sellers in 2016 thanks to its multi-functional, "makeup gripper" purpose: swipe a pump gently onto skin after applying your serum to lock in moisture, then tap and pat the jelly in circular motions to set a poreless priming base for "gripping" makeup. Now in 2017, J. One has taken their fan-favorite to bed. This brand new black version is to be used as a nighttime "Sleeping Pack" (deep, overnight moisturizers utilized in Korea) without the heavy feel that usually accompanies a Korean bedtime regime. ( ) One of J Lo 's favorite brands, thanks to ' proven efficacy, just launched a brand new hydrating serum packed with this season's star ingredient: hyaluronic acid. Unlike their mainstay Hydrating B5 Gel , which is an oil-free hydrator enhanced with B vitamins, the H.A. Intensifier is infused with licorice root and purple rice to naturally boost skin's hyaluronic acid levels by 30 percent. What is hyaluronic acid, you ask? Basically, it's a chemical compound that is naturally found in skin and can hold up to 1,000 times its weight in water, aiding against aging and dull, saggy skin. And thanks to the mainstreaming of K-Pop stars, who's cardinal rule is keeping your skin hydrated, we'll be seeing a whole lot more of this savvy ingredient. ( ) Perfect for stashing in tour bags while on the road or washing your face without, say, water, this , part of their Rehab collection, is the musician-loved brand's first foray into skincare. While the line has yet to be released (we'll update you as soon as we know the date!), this stick is packed with turmeric root extract, sunflower seed oil and vitamin E and is a "three-phase, oil-based remover" that transforms from a balm to liquid oil to microfoam to dissolve makeup on the go. ( ) When celebrity worlds collide, the best of the best is created. Case in point: the . After being introduced through their husbands, Sturm -- who is Cher's doctor and famous for her creepy but super effective MC1 cream -- and Blunder, Jessica Alba's makeup artist, teamed up to create luxurious products that blur the lines between skincare and beauty. First on their list to create was a primer, which Blunder says is an absolute must for every makeup wearer. "A makeup primer is an important step in ensuring that my client’s skin and makeup looks flawless,” Blunder told . “However, I found that the majority of primers on the market are formulated with silicone and other ingredients that can clog pores and cause reactions in the skin.” Enriched with hyaluronic acid and pearl pigments, we're sure this primer will be much better than primers of our pore-clogging past. ( )  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Courtesy of Dr. Barbara Sturm

Dr. Barbara Sturm Anti-Aging Primer

When celebrity worlds collide, the best of the best is created. Case in point: the Dr. Barbara Sturm x Monika Blunder Anti-Aging Primer. After being introduced through their husbands, Sturm -- who is Cher's doctor and famous for her creepy but super effective MC1 cream -- and Blunder, Jessica Alba's makeup artist, teamed up to create luxurious products that blur the lines between skincare and beauty.

First on their list to create was a primer, which Blunder says is an absolute must for every makeup wearer. "A makeup primer is an important step in ensuring that my client’s skin and makeup looks flawless,” Blunder told The Hollywood Reporter. “However, I found that the majority of primers on the market are formulated with silicone and other ingredients that can clog pores and cause reactions in the skin.” Enriched with hyaluronic acid and pearl pigments, we're sure this primer will be much better than primers of our pore-clogging past. ($85; exclusively at net-a-porter.com)