South Sudan plane crashes, all 49 passengers, crew survive
South Sudan plane crashes, all 49 passengers, crew survive
Shares                A passenger plane crash-landed and burned in Wau, northwestern South Sudan on Monday, but all 49 passengers and crew survived, an airport official. The plane was landing but then crashed, said Wau's Acting Airport Manager Stephen Youngule. "The plane touched down and then jumped up again. The pilot couldn't control it," said Youngule, who is also Deputy Director of Air Traffic Services. "I saw it until the very last moment before the fire engulfed the aircraft." When the plane crashed, its door flew open, which allowed the pilot and rescue crews to get everybody out, he said. Those with injuries were taken to Wau's hospital for treatment, said Youngule. The plane, an Antonov 26, carried 44 passengers and had five crew members, said Youngule. On social media, images appeared of the plane with smoke billowing from the wrecked fuselage. U.N. peacekeepers worked with local emergency workers to evacuate passengers from the plane, according to David Shearer, head of the U.N. mission in South Sudan. Peacekeepers from Bangladesh , Nepal and China helped in the emergency work, he said. The plane was from South Supreme Airlines, a South Sudanese carrier. It was making a trip from Juba to Wau, in northwestern South Sudan when it crashed. Most of the passengers were South Sudanese with two foreigners, one each from China and Eritrea. Since 2013, South Sudan has been embroiled in a civil war that has killed at least 50,000 people. In late February, a famine was declared in the country and more than 1 million people are at risk of starvation. ——— Justin Lynch contributed to this story from Nairobi, Kenya Shares                  South Sudan plane crashes, all 49 passengers, crew survive   White House digs in on Trump wiretapping claims despite Comey testimony   Spicer: Former campaign chairman had 'limited role'   Key moments from hearing with FBI Director Comey   N. Korea says it's not afraid of US threat of military strike   Anti-Putin activist has antiseptic thrown in his face while campaigning   Tom Brady's Super Bowl jersey found: NFL   Britain to trigger Brexit process on March 29, gov't says   Man claims NYC bar denied him service over pro-Trump hat   Battered by scandal, Marines issue new social media policy   President of embattled Uber leaves after 6 months on job   Girl battling cancer granted wish of seeing 'A Dog's Purpose,' gets visit from dog in film   Brotherly love: Two brothers who live 1,000 miles apart reunite in heartwarming viral video   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   Billionaire Gates meets with Trump to talk foreign aid   Guardian of Rockefeller fortune, philanthropy dies at 101   Shaq latest in the NBA community to join flat-Earth belief   Japan, Russia bolster cooperation, urge NKorean restraint   Murder trial opens for officer in 6-year-old boy's shooting   LGBT community worries about hate crime prosecutions   Assad ally Russia summons Israeli diplomat over Syria strike   Villanova loss, ACC flameout reshape NCAA Sweet 16 bracket   NCAA Tournament picks up steam just before Sweet 16   Colorado wildfire 50 percent contained, hundreds evacuated   Baltimore police search for suspect in firebombing that killed 2 and injured 6   Deputy killed on rape investigation had been honored for saving life   'Beauty and the Beast' roars to a record-setting opening weekend   Home health aides: Minimum-wage hikes could deepen shortage   Spike Lee calls lack of suitors for Colin Kaepernick 'fishy'   'Rogue One' screenwriter reveals alternate ending for Jyn and company   Glen Campbell can no longer play guitar, wife says

A passenger plane crash-landed and burned in Wau, northwestern South Sudan on Monday, but all 49 passengers and crew survived, an airport official.

The plane was landing but then crashed, said Wau's Acting Airport Manager Stephen Youngule.

"The plane touched down and then jumped up again. The pilot couldn't control it," said Youngule, who is also Deputy Director of Air Traffic Services. "I saw it until the very last moment before the fire engulfed the aircraft."

When the plane crashed, its door flew open, which allowed the pilot and rescue crews to get everybody out, he said. Those with injuries were taken to Wau's hospital for treatment, said Youngule.

The plane, an Antonov 26, carried 44 passengers and had five crew members, said Youngule.

On social media, images appeared of the plane with smoke billowing from the wrecked fuselage.

U.N. peacekeepers worked with local emergency workers to evacuate passengers from the plane, according to David Shearer, head of the U.N. mission in South Sudan. Peacekeepers from Bangladesh, Nepal and China helped in the emergency work, he said.

The plane was from South Supreme Airlines, a South Sudanese carrier. It was making a trip from Juba to Wau, in northwestern South Sudan when it crashed. Most of the passengers were South Sudanese with two foreigners, one each from China and Eritrea.

Since 2013, South Sudan has been embroiled in a civil war that has killed at least 50,000 people. In late February, a famine was declared in the country and more than 1 million people are at risk of starvation.

———

Justin Lynch contributed to this story from Nairobi, Kenya