See How Out Of Control Peru's Flooding Is
See How Out Of Control Peru's Flooding Is
Peru is experiencing the worst flooding in almost 30 years , leading to death and destruction even in parts of the country that typically remain dry. More than 70 people have died, according to several  news sources. Tens of thousands are now homeless . And there’s more to come. “Current analysis shows water temperatures 4-5 C (7-9 F) above normal along much of Peru’s coastline, and this is unlikely to change for at least several weeks,” according to AccuWeather. “This abnormal ocean warmth could lead to additional rounds of flooding through April before the normally drier weather associated with Peru’s dry season begins to take hold in May and June.” Dramatic video shows man narrowly managing to escape car being swept away by raging floodwaters in Peru. https://t.co/WQh4cyf9Z1  pic.twitter.com/nRvJnGFtsZ “There’s no electricity, no drinking water ... no transit because streets are flooded,” Valentin Fernandez, mayor of the town Nuevo Chimbote, told Reuters. Many of the areas hit during the storm didn’t possess infrastructure capable of withstanding heavy rains and mudslides. These photos show how people are coping:                                                 MORE:

Peru is experiencing the worst flooding in almost 30 years, leading to death and destruction even in parts of the country that typically remain dry.

More than 70 people have died, according to several news sources. Tens of thousands are now homeless.

And there’s more to come.

“Current analysis shows water temperatures 4-5 C (7-9 F) above normal along much of Peru’s coastline, and this is unlikely to change for at least several weeks,” according to AccuWeather. “This abnormal ocean warmth could lead to additional rounds of flooding through April before the normally drier weather associated with Peru’s dry season begins to take hold in May and June.”

Dramatic video shows man narrowly managing to escape car being swept away by raging floodwaters in Peru. https://t.co/WQh4cyf9Z1 pic.twitter.com/nRvJnGFtsZ — ABC News (@ABC) March 20, 2017

“There’s no electricity, no drinking water ... no transit because streets are flooded,” Valentin Fernandez, mayor of the town Nuevo Chimbote, told Reuters. Many of the areas hit during the storm didn’t possess infrastructure capable of withstanding heavy rains and mudslides.

These photos show how people are coping: