Paradigm Agency and Sirius XM Announce Inaugural Cookout Party With Back-to-Back DJ Sets at Miami Music Week 2017
Paradigm Agency and Sirius XM Announce Inaugural Cookout Party With Back-to-Back DJ Sets at Miami Music Week 2017
Paradigm Agency and Sirius XM Announce Inaugural Cookout Party With Back-to-Back DJ Sets at Miami Music Week 2017  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The Paradigm Talent Agency has partnered with SiriusXM'sÂ Electric Area on a weekly Tuesday program called The Cookout, bringingÂ fans exclusive sets from some of the biggest DJs on its roster. Last week, the team tried its hand at a live event as part of Austin's SXSW. Now, Paradigm takes their talents to South Beach and announces the first-ever Miami Music Week edition of The Cookout, and the lineup is accordingly massive. Thursday, March 23, from noon to 6 p.m., guests including Mija , Soul Clap , Justin Jay , and more will go back-to-back on the decks at the beautiful W Hotel. The sets will all be recorded live andÂ aired in their entirety Tuesday, April 1. It's all about bridging the gap between radio and live experiences. Check the Facebook event for more information, and peep the full lineup below.    FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The Paradigm Talent Agency has partnered with SiriusXM'sÂ Electric Area on a weekly Tuesday program called The Cookout, bringingÂ fans exclusive sets from some of the biggest DJs on its roster. Last week, the team tried its hand at a live event as part of Austin's SXSW. Now, Paradigm takes their talents to South Beach and announces the first-ever Miami Music Week edition of The Cookout, and the lineup is accordingly massive.

Thursday, March 23, from noon to 6 p.m., guests including Mija, Soul Clap, Justin Jay, and more will go back-to-back on the decks at the beautiful W Hotel. The sets will all be recorded live andÂ aired in their entirety Tuesday, April 1. It's all about bridging the gap between radio and live experiences. Check the Facebook event for more information, and peep the full lineup below.