Nicki Minaj Surpasses Aretha Franklin For The Most Hot 100 Hits By A Female Artist
Nicki Minaj Surpasses Aretha Franklin For The Most Hot 100 Hits By A Female Artist
Nicki Minaj has made history once again. On Monday, announced the 34-year-old rapper surpassed Aretha Franklin for the most Hot 100 hits among female artists. Nicki was able to break Franklin’s 73-hit record with her recent singles “Regret in Your Tears,” “Changed It” featuring Lil Wayne, and “No Frauds” with Drake and Lil Wayne. Nicki now has 76 Hot 100 appearances under her belt. The milestone is especially impressive considering Franklin held the top spot for 40 years out of the chart’s 58-year history. The “Queen of Soul’s” reign began in 1977, when she earned her 54th Hot 100 hit with "Break It to Me Gently.” Nicki tied Franklin’s longstanding record earlier this year with the release of the Gucci Mane’s “Make Love,” a track that re-ignited the rapper's ongoing feud with Remy Ma : “Oh oh, you the queen of this here/One platinum plaque, album flopped—bitch, where?” Nicki rapped. Since then, the rappers’ have exchanged several shots, with many giving Remy the W after she dropped her brutal diss track, “shETHER.” But now that Nicki has set an all-time record—thanks in large part to her Remy clap back “No Frauds”—it seems the self-proclaimed “Queen of Rap” is having the last laugh. You can check out the top 15 female artists with the most Hot 100 hits below.  Nicki Minaj – 76 Aretha Franklin – 73 Taylor Swift – 70 Rihanna – 58 Madonna – 58 Dionne Warwick – 56 Beyoncé – 54 Connie Francis – 53 Mariah Carey – 48 Brenda Lee – 48 Miley Cyrus – 43 Barbra Streisand – 41 Mary J. Blige – 40 Janet Jackson – 40 Diana Ross – 40

Nicki Minaj has made history once again. On Monday, Billboard announced the 34-year-old rapper surpassed Aretha Franklin for the most Hot 100 hits among female artists. Nicki was able to break Franklin’s 73-hit record with her recent singles “Regret in Your Tears,” “Changed It” featuring Lil Wayne, and “No Frauds” with Drake and Lil Wayne. Nicki now has 76 Hot 100 appearances under her belt.

The milestone is especially impressive considering Franklin held the top spot for 40 years out of the chart’s 58-year history. The “Queen of Soul’s” reign began in 1977, when she earned her 54th Hot 100 hit with "Break It to Me Gently.”

Nicki tied Franklin’s longstanding record earlier this year with the release of the Gucci Mane’s “Make Love,” a track that re-ignited the rapper's ongoing feud with Remy Ma: “Oh oh, you the queen of this here/One platinum plaque, album flopped—bitch, where?” Nicki rapped. Since then, the rappers’ have exchanged several shots, with many giving Remy the W after she dropped her brutal diss track, “shETHER.” But now that Nicki has set an all-time record—thanks in large part to her Remy clap back “No Frauds”—it seems the self-proclaimed “Queen of Rap” is having the last laugh.

You can check out the top 15 female artists with the most Hot 100 hits below.