Pretend To Buy Some Expensive Shit And We’ll Guess Your Exact Age
Pretend To Buy Some Expensive Shit And We'll Guess Your Exact Age
Pretend To Buy Some Expensive Shit And We’ll Guess Your Exact Age  You got:
								
								15  You’re young and still figuring things out in life. There’s loads of stuff ahead of you, including lots of changes, and sometimes it can feel pretty overwhelming.    You got:
								
								42  You know what you do and don’t like at this age and don’t have time for people’s bullshit anymore. You don’t necessarily always feel super confident, but you’re glad to be at a point in life where you really know who you are.    You got:
								
								35  You’re comfortable where you’re at and consider yourself to be pretty mature at least some of the time. That doesn’t mean you don’t like to let loose and have some fun – you just like to do what want rather than follow the crowd and do what’s trendy.    You got:
								
								19  At 19, you don’t quite feel like an adult yet and aren’t totally sure if you even want to move onto the more mundane stuff of grown-up life, but you want to assert your independence and start doing more things of your own volition.    You got:
								
								23  You’re in the middle of a pretty weird time; you might feel like you’ve left a lot of your teenage self behind but aren’t 100% sure what ~adult you~ is like either.    You got:
								
								29  You consider yourself to be pretty adult. You have some responsibilities and obligations but also feel like at this stage of life, you can change things up and make new starts if you really want.   SHARE YOUR RESULTS   28 Times "Lovesick" Was Way, Way Too Relatable    Here Are All The Kardashians' Reactions To The Robbery...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

You got: 15 You’re young and still figuring things out in life. There’s loads of stuff ahead of you, including lots of changes, and sometimes it can feel pretty overwhelming.

You got: 42 You know what you do and don’t like at this age and don’t have time for people’s bullshit anymore. You don’t necessarily always feel super confident, but you’re glad to be at a point in life where you really know who you are.

You got: 35 You’re comfortable where you’re at and consider yourself to be pretty mature at least some of the time. That doesn’t mean you don’t like to let loose and have some fun – you just like to do what you want rather than follow the crowd and do what’s trendy.

You got: 19 At 19, you don’t quite feel like an adult yet and aren’t totally sure if you even want to move onto the more mundane stuff of grown-up life, but you do want to assert your independence and start doing more things of your own volition.

You got: 23 You’re in the middle of a pretty weird time; you might feel like you’ve left a lot of your teenage self behind but aren’t 100% sure what ~adult you~ is like either.