A Backstreet Boy named his new baby 'Lyric,' obviously
A Backstreet Boy named his new baby 'Lyric,' obviously
Sigh. Another celebrity baby has fallen victim to the undying weird name trend. The Backstreet Boys' A.J. McLean and his wife Rochelle welcomed their second daughter on Sunday, March 19. And they named the baby girl Lyric Dean McLean. SEE ALSO: Backstreet Boys' Las Vegas residency proves the band is still 'Larger Than Life' Yep, of course a singer in a '90s boy band named his daughter "Lyric" because we all know how meaningful and deep words are in pop songs. Also, her middle and last name kind of rhyme so that's... something. Little Lyric weighed in at eight pounds, three ounces and measured 22-inches long. She joins her 4-year-old sister Ava Jaymes in this "Larger Than Life" family. My ride or die homie. Daddy loves you baby. A post shared by Aj mclean (@skulleeroz) on McLean gushed about his daughters and said , "Having two baby girls is a dream come true and we couldn’t be any more proud or excited to welcome Lyric Dean McLean into the world and into our family." At least Lyric is in good company. Maybe her, Dusty Rose, Saint, Blue Ivy, and Apple can all get together and have a playdate. WATCH: Adorable kid struggling to stay awake while eating is all of us on a Monday

Sigh. Another celebrity baby has fallen victim to the undying weird name trend.

The Backstreet Boys' A.J. McLean and his wife Rochelle welcomed their second daughter on Sunday, March 19. And they named the baby girl Lyric Dean McLean.

Yep, of course a singer in a '90s boy band named his daughter "Lyric" because we all know how meaningful and deep words are in pop songs. Also, her middle and last name kind of rhyme so that's... something.

Little Lyric weighed in at eight pounds, three ounces and measured 22-inches long. She joins her 4-year-old sister Ava Jaymes in this "Larger Than Life" family.

My ride or die homie. Daddy loves you baby. A post shared by Aj mclean (@skulleeroz) on Dec 23, 2016 at 10:32am PST

McLean gushed about his daughters and said, "Having two baby girls is a dream come true and we couldn’t be any more proud or excited to welcome Lyric Dean McLean into the world and into our family."

At least Lyric is in good company. Maybe her, Dusty Rose, Saint, Blue Ivy, and Apple can all get together and have a playdate.