Ivanka Trump Gets an Office in the White House, But We Don't Know What the Hell She's Doing
Ivanka Trump Gets an Office in the White House, But We Don't Know What the Hell She's Doing
Ivanka Trump , despite not having an official position in her father's administration, has already attended  many high-level meetings, and her influence has been widely  discussed in the press. But the most powerful First Daughter in living memory took a giant leap forward on Monday with the announcement that she would get her own office in the West Wing and would have access to classified information—despite not having an actual government job. Attorney Jamie Gorelick, Ivanka's "ethics advisor," per the , said that she will " Trump issued a statement on her new role: "I will continue to offer my father my candid advice and counsel, as I have for my entire life. While there is no modern precedent for an adult child of the president, I will voluntarily follow all of the ethics rules placed on government employees." Many people, including politicians and former White House staffers, were angered and confused by this new arrangement. Bernadette Meehan, the former spokesperson for the National Security Council under President Obama, tweeted that Ivanka's new familial privileges lessened the value of everyone who had a role in the White House. I had a security clearance & West Wing office. @IvankaTrump diminishes the value of expertise & hard work it took me & others to get there. https://t.co/rRVzDfR53d On the other side of the aisle, Amanda Carpenter, former senior staffer to Ted Cruz, had her own concerns about accountability. If taxpayers are giving Ivanka Trump office space we have every right to know what she's doing with it. Ivanka's office will be on the second floor of the West Wing, right next to her former adviser Dina Powell . Powell herself was just promoted to the National Security Council.

Ivanka Trump, despite not having an official position in her father's administration, has already attended many high-level meetings, and her influence has been widely discussed in the press. But the most powerful First Daughter in living memory took a giant leap forward on Monday with the announcement that she would get her own office in the West Wing and would have access to classified information—despite not having an actual government job.

Attorney Jamie Gorelick, Ivanka's "ethics advisor," per the Associated Press, said that she will "voluntarily comply with the [ethics] rules that would apply if she were a government employee, even though she is not." Gorelick continued, saying that she will serve as her father's "eyes and ears," and provide advice on a range of issues.

Trump issued a statement on her new role:

"I will continue to offer my father my candid advice and counsel, as I have for my entire life. While there is no modern precedent for an adult child of the president, I will voluntarily follow all of the ethics rules placed on government employees."

Many people, including politicians and former White House staffers, were angered and confused by this new arrangement. Bernadette Meehan, the former spokesperson for the National Security Council under President Obama, tweeted that Ivanka's new familial privileges lessened the value of everyone who had a role in the White House.

I had a security clearance & West Wing office. @IvankaTrump diminishes the value of expertise & hard work it took me & others to get there. https://t.co/rRVzDfR53d — Bernadette Meehan (@MeehanBM) March 20, 2017

On the other side of the aisle, Amanda Carpenter, former senior staffer to Ted Cruz, had her own concerns about accountability.

If taxpayers are giving Ivanka Trump office space we have every right to know what she's doing with it. — Amanda Carpenter (@amandacarpenter) March 20, 2017

Ivanka's office will be on the second floor of the West Wing, right next to her former adviser Dina Powell. Powell herself was just promoted to the National Security Council.