Eman Lost 120 Kilos After Surgery But She Is Suffering From Failure In Heart And Frequent Epileptic Fits
Eman Lost 120 Kilos After Surgery But She Is Suffering From Failure In Heart And Epileptic Fits
Eman Lost 120 Kilos After Surgery But She Is Suffering From Failure In Heart And Frequent Epileptic Fits It seemed like that 36 -year-old Eman, who weighed 500 kg, got another life after she underwent a bariatric surgery at a Mumbai Hospital. Though she is on her way to recovery but it could be a slow a process. Doctors are just not monitoring her kilos but also her poorly functioning lungs that have triggered a right-side heart failure as well as the multiple spells of epileptic fits she suffers every day. mangalam An update that her doctors at Saifee Hospital in south Mumbai posted online on Saturday afternoon said, "We are happy to inform you that her post-op recovery is going fairly well." She is 358kg now, appreciably lower than the 498kg that she weighed when she touched down in Mumbai on February 11. "She lost 120kg in less than a month, but that was mainly the fluids," said Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, who heads the retinue of doctors working to 'save eman'. Many health challenges still remain, said her doctors. "The initial weight loss allowed us to operate safely and successfully. The battle is won, but the war is yet to be won. There is a long way to go before we can say Eman Ahmed is finally out of the woods," said Dr Lakdawala. He, in fact, said that the 90-minute surgery in which he cut her stomach down to a sleeve-shaped bag on March 7 was the "smallest part" of the treatment. "Even deciding her antibiotic dose is a long exercise, involving many doctors. We have to take care that one doctor's prescription isn't counter-productive to another's treatment," he added. "It is a tightrope walk on a daily basis. She is about 30% better than she was." Almost every organ seems to have suffered due to her morbidly obese frame that spanned five feet when she first flew into India: The multiple seizures reveal a neurological or brain-related problem; the fluid accumulation in her chest shows how much her chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) has affected her lung's function; the right side of her heart fails to function normally as is the case with many patients with COPD; and protein still leaks into her urine indicating overworked kidneys. During her March 7 operation, doctors found her abdomen was filled with fluid, a possible sign of liver failure.A doctor from Chennai was rushed to do a biopsy of the liver but it turned out to be congestive hepatopathy, a liver disorder that usually accompanies heart failure.

It seemed like that 36 -year-old Eman, who weighed 500 kg, got another life after she underwent a bariatric surgery at a Mumbai Hospital. Though she is on her way to recovery but it could be a slow a process. Doctors are just not monitoring her kilos but also her poorly functioning lungs that have triggered a right-side heart failure as well as the multiple spells of epileptic fits she suffers every day.

mangalam

An update that her doctors at Saifee Hospital in south Mumbai posted online on Saturday afternoon said, "We are happy to inform you that her post-op recovery is going fairly well." She is 358kg now, appreciably lower than the 498kg that she weighed when she touched down in Mumbai on February 11.

"She lost 120kg in less than a month, but that was mainly the fluids," said Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, who heads the retinue of doctors working to 'save eman'.

Many health challenges still remain, said her doctors. "The initial weight loss allowed us to operate safely and successfully. The battle is won, but the war is yet to be won. There is a long way to go before we can say Eman Ahmed is finally out of the woods," said Dr Lakdawala. He, in fact, said that the 90-minute surgery in which he cut her stomach down to a sleeve-shaped bag on March 7 was the "smallest part" of the treatment. "Even deciding her antibiotic dose is a long exercise, involving many doctors. We have to take care that one doctor's prescription isn't counter-productive to another's treatment," he added. "It is a tightrope walk on a daily basis. She is about 30% better than she was."

cdn.tecake.in

Almost every organ seems to have suffered due to her morbidly obese frame that spanned five feet when she first flew into India: The multiple seizures reveal a neurological or brain-related problem; the fluid accumulation in her chest shows how much her chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) has affected her lung's function; the right side of her heart fails to function normally as is the case with many patients with COPD; and protein still leaks into her urine indicating overworked kidneys.

During her March 7 operation, doctors found her abdomen was filled with fluid, a possible sign of liver failure.A doctor from Chennai was rushed to do a biopsy of the liver but it turned out to be congestive hepatopathy, a liver disorder that usually accompanies heart failure.

With inputs from TNN

Don't Miss 3.7 K SHARES 4.3 K SHARES 10.8 K SHARES 1.9 K SHARES 236 SHARES