Coach's wife escorted out of arena after loudly cursing at NCAA tourney
Coach's wife escorted out of arena after loudly cursing at NCAA tourney
Head coach Gregg Marshall of the Wichita State Shockers reacts in the first half against the Kentucky Wildcats during the second round of the 2017 NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament at the Bankers Life Fieldhouse on March 19, 2017 in Indianapolis, Indiana.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  -- A security guard asked the wife of Wichita State coach Gregg Marshall to leave the lower bowl of Bankers Life Fieldhouse after she started loudly cursing shortly after Sunday’s 65-62 loss to Kentucky in the NCAA Tournament. A police officer was eventually called and followed Lynn Marshall up the steps. She later was taken back to the playing level on an elevator so she could attend her husband’s news conference. NCAA spokesman David Worlock says it is standard procedure for the wife of a coach to be escorted to the press conference but it is usually done by school officials. Lynn Marshall remained in the stands about 10 minutes after the final buzzer. She at first consoled fans and family members of the team’s players. But then she started shouting loudly about the calls made during the game. Eventually, the people around coaxed her to leave and the police officer followed. Team spokesman Bryan Holmgren said the team was unaware of the situation and could not comment. Kennedy Hardman of WTVQ tweeted that Marshall was visited three times by security. Fellas, talk about a ride or die chick. Gregg Marshall, I love your wife. Inappropriate? ...maybe Entertaining? ...YES ! (Security visit #3) pic.twitter.com/cF6SGQUNYK                Tweet     Stumble     Email

INDIANAPOLIS -- A security guard asked the wife of Wichita State coach Gregg Marshall to leave the lower bowl of Bankers Life Fieldhouse after she started loudly cursing shortly after Sunday’s 65-62 loss to Kentucky in the NCAA Tournament.

A police officer was eventually called and followed Lynn Marshall up the steps. She later was taken back to the playing level on an elevator so she could attend her husband’s news conference.

NCAA spokesman David Worlock says it is standard procedure for the wife of a coach to be escorted to the press conference but it is usually done by school officials.

Lynn Marshall remained in the stands about 10 minutes after the final buzzer. She at first consoled fans and family members of the team’s players. But then she started shouting loudly about the calls made during the game. Eventually, the people around coaxed her to leave and the police officer followed.

Team spokesman Bryan Holmgren said the team was unaware of the situation and could not comment.

Kennedy Hardman of WTVQ tweeted that Marshall was visited three times by security.