London living cost falls to lowest level in decades in international ranking
London living cost falls to lowest level in decades in international ranking
Living in London is cheaper now than it has been in decades, at least by one measure. An analysis of the cost of a basket of over 150 goods in 133 cities around the world has found that London has fallen 18 places in the global cost of living ranking to 24th this year, its lowest spot in two decades. The study, conducted by The Economist Intelligence Unit, also found that Manchester fell 25 places to 51st spot – the steepest decline of any city surveyed this year.   Cheapest universities for undergraduate cost of living revealed “Intense competition among British retailers accompanied by low oil and commodity prices has kept significant rises in check over the last few years” said Jon Copestake, who edited the survey. He added, however, that as a result of rising import prices, British shoppers will likely start noticing higher levels of inflation, “even as businesses potentially benefit from inbound retail tourism and cross border trade”. The rate of consumer price inflation was 1.8 per cent in January and is widely expected to rise above the Bank of England ’s official 2 per cent target in the coming months, signalling a period of negative real wage growth for households . Read more One chart that shows why Londoners are the poorest workers in the UK A new survey has revealed what Britons hate the most about London Map: The cost of living across the world London ’s dramatic fall down the ranks means that it is now 17 per cent cheaper than Paris and on a par with Dublin , according to the survey. For the first time in 15 years, the cost of living in London is also cheaper than the cost of living in New York , it found. Other cities that saw costs tumble included Buenos Aires, which fell 20 places to 82nd in the ranking, something that the EIU attributes to ongoing economic volatility in Argentina. Back in the UK, Manchester is now less expensive to live in than Beijing and its cost of living is on a par with that of Bangkok. As they had in previous years, Asian cities dominated the upper echelons of the ranking this year, taking five of the six top spots. 8 well paid jobs that don't require a degree               8 well paid jobs that don't require a degree    Marketing Assistant   Job Title: Marketing Assistant 

Starting Salary: £19-22k
Entry requirements: Apprentice roles available which require good A-Levels in Business Studies or similar. Some companies will also take on school leavers and train them up as marketing assistants starting at c.15k

Career progression: Head of Marketing role commands an average salary of £77,200 in London/£60,869 outside of London (REED Salary Calculator)   Getty     Recruitment   Job title(s): Resourcer
Starting salaries: £20k On Target Earnings (OTE)
Entry requirements: Study for a NVQ Level 3 in Business and Administration while working in an apprentice role
Career progression: Progression in recruitment is really down to the individual’s tenacity and drive to meet targets. Second year OTE can be around £40K, then in following years, uncapped bonuses can mean the best consultants take home six figure salaries.   Getty     Hospitality   Job title(s): Various roles

Starting salaries: £15 -25k

Entry requirements: Experience from junior roles

Career progression: Front of house/ F&B managers/ Event management can all be learned from junior roles such as catering assistant, waiting staff, events assistant. Often starting as a receptionist will also lead to more senior and varied roles.   Getty     IT   Job title: IT Support Analyst 
Starting salary: £17k
Entry requirements: GCSE’S/A-Levels/BTEC in IT plus good working knowledge of Microsoft SQL and related software.
Career progression: With an MCSA qualification a salary of around £20k can be expected, raising to £25k for an MCSE qualification. Career progression through from 1st - 3rd line support roles, leading to Infrastructure Manager (£35k+)   Getty     Accounting   Job title: Accounts Trainee/Accounts Payable Assistant/AAT Trainee
Starting Salary: c.£15k depending upon location and study support package
Entry requirements: Good GCSEs/A-Levels are an advantage, particularly in maths/statistics/business
Career progression: You can start as an Accounts Trainee and progress to a QBE Accountant; Qualified by Experience is a phrase used in the accountancy sector for Accountants that have gained their level of expertise on the job, without taking any formal qualifications. It is common place to study AAT exams without having a degree, and by completing 9 papers within a CIMA or ACCA course can result in an uplift in salary to above £30k.
Salaries start at £15K for junior Clerks and go up significantly as a QBE or part-qualified Accountant, often above the £30k mark.   Getty     Customer Service   Job title: Customer Service Advisor
Starting salary: From £15k
Entry requirements: Apprenticeship roles while studying for an NVQ /Diploma in Customer Service
Career progression: Experienced Customer Service Advisors can receive £18 - 20k and Customer Service Managers between £30-35k   Getty     Motor retail   Job Title: Car dealer
Starting Salary: £18 + Company Car
Entry requirements: Grade C and above in Maths and English 
Career progression: Career development courses can be taken on the job, wage can reach into six figures in senior roles
Current opportunities: Plentiful. Companies such as Jardine Motors Group are also looking for technicians, sales and customer service advisors   Getty     Plumbing   Job Title: Heating/plumbing engineer 
Starting Salary: £18K
Entry requirements: ACS qualification (or NVQ equivalent) leading Gas Safe Register membership - various apprenticeship roles available
Career progression: Up to £36k  as a service engineer  with one of the top manufacturers   Getty   Singapore was the most expensive of those, with Zurich being crowned most expensive European city, and third place overall, trailing Hong Kong. New York was the only North American city to make it into the top ten while Lagos, in Nigeria, and Almaty, in Kazakhstan, were named the two cheapest cities in the world. More about: London Manchester Comments

Living in London is cheaper now than it has been in decades, at least by one measure.

An analysis of the cost of a basket of over 150 goods in 133 cities around the world has found that London has fallen 18 places in the global cost of living ranking to 24th this year, its lowest spot in two decades.

The study, conducted by The Economist Intelligence Unit, also found that Manchester fell 25 places to 51st spot – the steepest decline of any city surveyed this year.

“Intense competition among British retailers accompanied by low oil and commodity prices has kept significant rises in check over the last few years” said Jon Copestake, who edited the survey.

He added, however, that as a result of rising import prices, British shoppers will likely start noticing higher levels of inflation, “even as businesses potentially benefit from inbound retail tourism and cross border trade”.

The rate of consumer price inflation was 1.8 per cent in January and is widely expected to rise above the Bank of England’s official 2 per cent target in the coming months, signalling a period of negative real wage growth for households.

London’s dramatic fall down the ranks means that it is now 17 per cent cheaper than Paris and on a par with Dublin, according to the survey.

For the first time in 15 years, the cost of living in London is also cheaper than the cost of living in New York, it found.

Other cities that saw costs tumble included Buenos Aires, which fell 20 places to 82nd in the ranking, something that the EIU attributes to ongoing economic volatility in Argentina.

Back in the UK, Manchester is now less expensive to live in than Beijing and its cost of living is on a par with that of Bangkok.

As they had in previous years, Asian cities dominated the upper echelons of the ranking this year, taking five of the six top spots.

8 well paid jobs that don't require a degree







8 show all 8 well paid jobs that don't require a degree













1/8 Marketing Assistant Job Title: Marketing Assistant Starting Salary: £19-22k Entry requirements: Apprentice roles available which require good A-Levels in Business Studies or similar. Some companies will also take on school leavers and train them up as marketing assistants starting at c.15k Career progression: Head of Marketing role commands an average salary of £77,200 in London/£60,869 outside of London (REED Salary Calculator) Getty

2/8 Recruitment Job title(s): Resourcer Starting salaries: £20k On Target Earnings (OTE) Entry requirements: Study for a NVQ Level 3 in Business and Administration while working in an apprentice role Career progression: Progression in recruitment is really down to the individual’s tenacity and drive to meet targets. Second year OTE can be around £40K, then in following years, uncapped bonuses can mean the best consultants take home six figure salaries. Getty

3/8 Hospitality Job title(s): Various roles Starting salaries: £15 -25k Entry requirements: Experience from junior roles Career progression: Front of house/ F&B managers/ Event management can all be learned from junior roles such as catering assistant, waiting staff, events assistant. Often starting as a receptionist will also lead to more senior and varied roles. Getty

4/8 IT Job title: IT Support Analyst Starting salary: £17k Entry requirements: GCSE’S/A-Levels/BTEC in IT plus good working knowledge of Microsoft SQL and related software. Career progression: With an MCSA qualification a salary of around £20k can be expected, raising to £25k for an MCSE qualification. Career progression through from 1st - 3rd line support roles, leading to Infrastructure Manager (£35k+) Getty

5/8 Accounting Job title: Accounts Trainee/Accounts Payable Assistant/AAT Trainee Starting Salary: c.£15k depending upon location and study support package Entry requirements: Good GCSEs/A-Levels are an advantage, particularly in maths/statistics/business Career progression: You can start as an Accounts Trainee and progress to a QBE Accountant; Qualified by Experience is a phrase used in the accountancy sector for Accountants that have gained their level of expertise on the job, without taking any formal qualifications. It is common place to study AAT exams without having a degree, and by completing 9 papers within a CIMA or ACCA course can result in an uplift in salary to above £30k. Salaries start at £15K for junior Clerks and go up significantly as a QBE or part-qualified Accountant, often above the £30k mark. Getty

6/8 Customer Service Job title: Customer Service Advisor Starting salary: From £15k Entry requirements: Apprenticeship roles while studying for an NVQ /Diploma in Customer Service Career progression: Experienced Customer Service Advisors can receive £18 - 20k and Customer Service Managers between £30-35k Getty

7/8 Motor retail Job Title: Car dealer Starting Salary: £18 + Company Car Entry requirements: Grade C and above in Maths and English Career progression: Career development courses can be taken on the job, wage can reach into six figures in senior roles Current opportunities: Plentiful. Companies such as Jardine Motors Group are also looking for technicians, sales and customer service advisors Getty

8/8 Plumbing Job Title: Heating/plumbing engineer Starting Salary: £18K Entry requirements: ACS qualification (or NVQ equivalent) leading Gas Safe Register membership - various apprenticeship roles available Career progression: Up to £36k as a service engineer with one of the top manufacturers Getty

Singapore was the most expensive of those, with Zurich being crowned most expensive European city, and third place overall, trailing Hong Kong.

New York was the only North American city to make it into the top ten while Lagos, in Nigeria, and Almaty, in Kazakhstan, were named the two cheapest cities in the world.