Dave Chappelle Explains Why It 'Hurts His Feelings' to Watch 'Key & Peele'
Dave Chappelle Explains Why It 'Hurts His Feelings' to Watch 'Key & Peele'
Dave Chappelle Explains Why It 'Hurts His Feelings' to Watch 'Key & Peele'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The comedian told "CBS This Morning" that he deserves credit for establishing certain comedy sketch conventions that the Comedy Central series used. Dave ChappelleÂ counts himself a "fan" of Comedy Central's but believes he deserves some credit on the series. In an interview with Gayle King forÂ , the veteran comedian admitted that it hurt to seeÂ Â use the sketch comedy format he "fought hard" to establish while working on without any acknowledgment. The Comedy Central series gained popularity years afterÂ went off the air, and creators Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele have cited Chappelle as a comedy influence in the past.  "I'm a fan of their show," he clarified, before adding, "When I didÂ , there were certain conventions of the show that the network resisted. I fought the network very hard so that those conventions could come to fruition." He told King he pushed back against the network for wanting to cut down the length of his "Black White Supremacist" sketch, which originally aired on the show's first episode. "[They said,] 'Well, that's 10 minutes long. It should be five minutes long.' Why should it be five minutes long?" he asked. "These types of conventions...I fought very hard. When I watchÂ , and I see they're doing a format that I created, and at the end of the show it says 'Created by Key & Peele' -- that hurts my feelings."  When asked why he chose to walk away fromÂ Â (and a $50 million deal) back in 2005, the comedian explained, "I was in this very successful place, but the emotional content of it didn't feel anything like what I imagined success should feel like. It just didn't feel right." The comedian has since been performing stand-up across the country and has three specials headed to Netflix. Two of them,Â andÂ , will begin streaming on Tuesday.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Dave Chappelle performs to a sold out crowd onstage at the Hollywood Palladium on March 25, 2016 in Los Angeles.

The comedian told "CBS This Morning" that he deserves credit for establishing certain comedy sketch conventions that the Comedy Central series used.

Dave ChappelleÂ counts himself a "fan" of Comedy Central'sÂ Key & Peele but believes he deserves some credit on the series.

In an interview with Gayle King forÂ CBS This Morning, the veteran comedian admitted that it hurt to seeÂ Key & PeeleÂ use the sketch comedy format he "fought hard" to establish while working onÂ Chappelle's Show without any acknowledgment. The Comedy Central series gained popularity years afterÂ Chappelle's Show went off the air, and creators Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele have cited Chappelle as a comedy influence in the past.

"I'm a fan of their show," he clarified, before adding, "When I didÂ Chappelle's Show, there were certain conventions of the show that the network resisted. I fought the network very hard so that those conventions could come to fruition."

He told King he pushed back against the network for wanting to cut down the length of his "Black White Supremacist" sketch, which originally aired on the show's first episode.

"[They said,] 'Well, that's 10 minutes long. It should be five minutes long.' Why should it be five minutes long?" he asked. "These types of conventions...I fought very hard. When I watchÂ Key & Peele, and I see they're doing a format that I created, and at the end of the show it says 'Created by Key & Peele' -- that hurts my feelings."

When asked why he chose to walk away fromÂ Chappelle's ShowÂ (and a $50 million deal) back in 2005, the comedian explained, "I was in this very successful place, but the emotional content of it didn't feel anything like what I imagined success should feel like. It just didn't feel right."

The comedian has since been performing stand-up across the country and has three specials headed to Netflix. Two of them,Â Deep in the Heart of TexasÂ andÂ The Age of Spin, will begin streaming on Tuesday.

This article was originally published by The Hollywood Reporter.