Trump sidesteps Russia inquiry at Kentucky rally
Trump sidesteps Russia inquiry at rally
Shares                FBI Director James Comey and National Security Agency Director Mike Rogers testified before the House Intelligence Committee Monday about an issue long dismissed by President Donald Trump as a “ruse” and “fake news” concocted by his political adversaries: Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election and alleged connections between Trump associates and the country. The president -- who prides himself on counterpunching -- and his aides have hit back hard, calling for the discussion to instead focus on what they call illegal leaks of classified information, as well as an unsubstantiated insistence that Trump was surveilled by order from the previous administration. But hours after Comey and Rogers confirmed the existence of an investigation into Russian interference in the election, the topic went completely unmentioned during Trump's speech at a campaign-style rally in Kentucky.     The typically-combative Trump did not mention Russia or Comey, who directly refuted the president's allegation that he was "wiretapped" by former President Barack Obama during last year's campaign, as a part of his testimony before the House Intelligence Committee earlier in the day. The audience at the Kentucky Exposition Center's Freedom Hall in Louisville was instead treated to remarks bearing a resemblance to Trump's campaign stump speeches. For just over 40 minutes, the president touched on staples of his agenda, including the effort to secure the nation's southern border, repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and prevent instances of terrorism. Trump also commented upon the confirmation hearing for his Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch which began Monday with members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Last week at a similar event in Nashville, Tennessee, Trump chose to address the news of the day head-on when he launched into a searing criticism of a federal judge's ruling in Hawaii to issue a temporary restraining order on his revised travel ban, calling the move an "an unprecedented judicial overreach." The administration's response to Monday's intelligence committee hearing remained limited to White House Secretary Sean Spicer 's press briefing. "Senior Obama intelligence officials have gone on record to confirm there is no evidence of a Trump-Russia collusion," said Spicer, who also noted that Trump would not withdraw his wiretap accusation. Following the event in Nashville last week, Trump said he planned to continue to hold rallies with supporters throughout the country every two weeks. The events are paid for by Trump's campaign committee. Shares                  Trump sidesteps Russia inquiry at rally   Key moments from hearing with FBI Director Comey   Ivanka Trump to receive White House office, security clearance   Spicer: Former campaign chairman had 'limited role'   Lawmakers and officials questioning Trump's wiretapping claims   Gorsuch called on to represent all Americans in confirmation hearing   White House digs in on Trump wiretapping claims despite Comey testimony   FBI head has 'no information' backing Trump wiretap claims   A timeline of Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping claims   Progressives demand a filibuster against Trump's Supreme Court pick   The Note: A high-stakes week for Trump   James Comey: Everything you need to know about the FBI director   N. Korea says it's not afraid of US threat of military strike   Girl battling cancer granted wish of seeing 'A Dog's Purpose,' gets visit from dog in film   Brotherly love: Two brothers who live 1,000 miles apart reunite in heartwarming viral video   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute

FBI Director James Comey and National Security Agency Director Mike Rogers testified before the House Intelligence Committee Monday about an issue long dismissed by President Donald Trump as a “ruse” and “fake news” concocted by his political adversaries: Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election and alleged connections between Trump associates and the country.

The president -- who prides himself on counterpunching -- and his aides have hit back hard, calling for the discussion to instead focus on what they call illegal leaks of classified information, as well as an unsubstantiated insistence that Trump was surveilled by order from the previous administration.

But hours after Comey and Rogers confirmed the existence of an investigation into Russian interference in the election, the topic went completely unmentioned during Trump's speech at a campaign-style rally in Kentucky.

The typically-combative Trump did not mention Russia or Comey, who directly refuted the president's allegation that he was "wiretapped" by former President Barack Obama during last year's campaign, as a part of his testimony before the House Intelligence Committee earlier in the day.

The audience at the Kentucky Exposition Center's Freedom Hall in Louisville was instead treated to remarks bearing a resemblance to Trump's campaign stump speeches. For just over 40 minutes, the president touched on staples of his agenda, including the effort to secure the nation's southern border, repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and prevent instances of terrorism.

Trump also commented upon the confirmation hearing for his Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch which began Monday with members of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Last week at a similar event in Nashville, Tennessee, Trump chose to address the news of the day head-on when he launched into a searing criticism of a federal judge's ruling in Hawaii to issue a temporary restraining order on his revised travel ban, calling the move an "an unprecedented judicial overreach."

The administration's response to Monday's intelligence committee hearing remained limited to White House Secretary Sean Spicer's press briefing.

"Senior Obama intelligence officials have gone on record to confirm there is no evidence of a Trump-Russia collusion," said Spicer, who also noted that Trump would not withdraw his wiretap accusation.

Following the event in Nashville last week, Trump said he planned to continue to hold rallies with supporters throughout the country every two weeks. The events are paid for by Trump's campaign committee.