EU leaders will meet for first 'Brexit summit' on April 29
EU leaders will meet for first 'Brexit summit' on April 29 
uropean Union leaders will meet to adopt its "Brexit guidelines" on  April 29, European Council president Donald Tusk has announced. It comes a month after Theresa May triggers Article 50 and Brexit officially begins on March 29. I will call #EUCO on 29/4 to adopt EU27 Brexit Guidelines. Priority must be certainty, clarity for all: citizens, companies & member states. he meeting will happen just days before the French election and mean there will no negotiations for a month. r Tusk announced the date of the summit on Twitter, adding: "Priority must be certainty, clarity for all: citizens, companies & member states." The leaders of 27 EU member states will hold the  meeting in April to agree a common response to Britain’s demands. he timing of the summit means substantive negotiations will not begin until at least May, giving the PM just 17 months to get a deal. Mrs May told the Cabinet that the triggering of Article 50 on March 29 would be a "historic event." Her official spokesperson said: "It will precipitate a shift in our role in the World and see Britain begin a bold new chapter as a prosperous, open and global nation. "The PM said the letter will be one of the most important documents in our country's recent history and start to deliver the result of the referendum and set the terms of our new relationship with Europe and the World. "The PM reiterated her commitment to secure an early agreement on the rights of EU citizens living in the UK and British citizens abroad. "She said the work of the exit and trade committee provided a strong platform from which we can now prepare to enter negotiations and secure a deal for the whole of the UK. "The Prime Minister and David Davies said a white paper will be published in anticipation of the Great Repeal Bill and the UK taking control of its laws." ir Tim Barrow, the UK's ambassador to the EU, formally notified the office of Mr Tusk of Britain's intention to trigger Article 50 with a letter on Monday morning. On Wednesday next week Mrs May will formally notify Mr Tusk by writing him a letter and then giving a statement to MPs later in Parliament. r Tusk will reply on behalf of the council to Mrs May after about six weeks, making clear the EU’s negotiating position, formally sounding the starting gun on talks. With both sides having set out their demands, talks will then formally begin between British officials and bureaucrats from the European Commission about the terms of Britain’s exit.

The timing of the summit means substantive negotiations will not begin until at least May, giving the PM just 17 months to get a deal.

Mrs May told the Cabinet that the triggering of Article 50 on March 29 would be a "historic event."

Her official spokesperson said: "It will precipitate a shift in our role in the World and see Britain begin a bold new chapter as a prosperous, open and global nation.