Future schools: core subjects only, parents pay for the rest | Laura McInerney

magine a world where school as we know it – free to all, with a wide variety of subjects – has been stripped back to a basic entitlement. Each child gets only a few hours per day of teaching in the core subjects. If parents want extras, say sports or music lessons or more reading activities, those must be additionally purchased from the school, or from private companies. It may sound like a dystopian future but many parents already supplement their child’s education and, with grammar schools about to return, there is the opportunity for a boom in private tutoring. An austerity government with weak opposition could see paring back education as a neat way to solve some of its woes. School budgets are squeezed and by 2020 will have dropped in real terms by around 9%. School leaders are firing staff, cutting maintenance, stopping welfare services. Almost all are cutting back on the curriculum. One academy chain has already made music an after-school extra ; others say they will follow. At the same time the government is bringing back grammar schools. Whatever else may be debatable about the selective schools, no one disputes that it is hard to get your child into them. Data crunching by economist Simon Burgess of Bristol University has found that for your child even to have a 50-50 chance of getting into a grammar, you need to be among the top 10% wealthiest families in the country. To put it bluntly, your family income would need to be around £90,000 a year for your child to have a half a chance at getting into an academic grammar school. If you’re just in the top third of wealthy families – so your income is around £50,000 – your child’s chances are one in three. These are bad odds for comfortable families used to accessing the services they want. Many will not want their child to be left behind in a school with few bright children in it. Yet that’s what will happen to almost all of them. So an arms race of private tuition begins. The tutoring industry is already worth an estimated £2bn in the UK and recent surveys suggest that last year alone one in 10 children had some form of paid-for teaching in addition to their state schooling. In grammar school areas, this rate is even higher. Which is why it was no surprise when, within minutes of May’s grammars announcement, my inbox was flooded by private tutor companies suggesting their chief executive as a great person to interview in support of the idea. Anxious parents sign up to such firms, some of which charge upwards of £5,000 for exam preparation. But parents’ investment is like an educational pyramid scheme – it only works if you get in first; once everyone is invested there’s no real benefit. Tutoring for grammar school entrance tests is starting younger and younger. Last year Natasha Tiwari, founder of the Tutoring Team, which preps children as young as four for entrance tests, told me: “There are parents who think, ‘if he fails, we are screwed’.” Parents paying up is a happy boon for the government. It improves children’s results and boosts small business income – most tutors are self-employed – all without increasing the cost on the public purse. Hence, even though austerity means spending less, more private tuition means children still achieve while enterprise booms. All of which leads back to the no-frills schooling hypothesis. Conservative governments naturally lean towards a small state: less public spending, more tax cuts. If parents become used to the idea of paying for additional tutoring on entrance tests, it becomes easier to sell them other add-ons, too. These extras can be more flexible, delivered online, by different providers, maybe at weekends, maybe around parents’ increasingly complex schedules now that many employers demand weekend and evening working as standard. It becomes easy to start making a persuasive case that the current school system is too rigid and too expensive. A smaller, inexpensive core offering with premium services optional is a tantalising fulfilment of Conservative small state fantasies. Grammar schools are the perfect vehicle with which to beat the start of that path. Perhaps it is just a pessimistic guess at a dystopian future, but it makes an uncomfortable amount of sense.  School funding   School privatisation   School sports   Schools   Curriculums   Teaching   comment

Imagine a world where school as we know it – free to all, with a wide variety of subjects – has been stripped back to a basic entitlement. Each child gets only a few hours per day of teaching in the core subjects. If parents want extras, say sports or music lessons or more reading activities, those must be additionally purchased from the school, or from private companies.

It may sound like a dystopian future but many parents already supplement their child’s education and, with grammar schools about to return, there is the opportunity for a boom in private tutoring. An austerity government with weak opposition could see paring back education as a neat way to solve some of its woes.

School budgets are squeezed and by 2020 will have dropped in real terms by around 9%. School leaders are firing staff, cutting maintenance, stopping welfare services. Almost all are cutting back on the curriculum. One academy chain has already made music an after-school extra; others say they will follow.

Should parents have to pay fees – for a state school education? Read more

At the same time the government is bringing back grammar schools. Whatever else may be debatable about the selective schools, no one disputes that it is hard to get your child into them. Data crunching by economist Simon Burgess of Bristol University has found that for your child even to have a 50-50 chance of getting into a grammar, you need to be among the top 10% wealthiest families in the country. To put it bluntly, your family income would need to be around £90,000 a year for your child to have a half a chance at getting into an academic grammar school. If you’re just in the top third of wealthy families – so your income is around £50,000 – your child’s chances are one in three.

These are bad odds for comfortable families used to accessing the services they want. Many will not want their child to be left behind in a school with few bright children in it. Yet that’s what will happen to almost all of them. So an arms race of private tuition begins.

The tutoring industry is already worth an estimated £2bn in the UK and recent surveys suggest that last year alone one in 10 children had some form of paid-for teaching in addition to their state schooling. In grammar school areas, this rate is even higher. Which is why it was no surprise when, within minutes of May’s grammars announcement, my inbox was flooded by private tutor companies suggesting their chief executive as a great person to interview in support of the idea. Anxious parents sign up to such firms, some of which charge upwards of £5,000 for exam preparation. But parents’ investment is like an educational pyramid scheme – it only works if you get in first; once everyone is invested there’s no real benefit.

Tutoring for grammar school entrance tests is starting younger and younger. Last year Natasha Tiwari, founder of the Tutoring Team, which preps children as young as four for entrance tests, told me: “There are parents who think, ‘if he fails, we are screwed’.”

You can see the cuts in the NHS but the cuts in schools are as dire | Laura McInerney Read more

Parents paying up is a happy boon for the government. It improves children’s results and boosts small business income – most tutors are self-employed – all without increasing the cost on the public purse. Hence, even though austerity means spending less, more private tuition means children still achieve while enterprise booms.

All of which leads back to the no-frills schooling hypothesis. Conservative governments naturally lean towards a small state: less public spending, more tax cuts. If parents become used to the idea of paying for additional tutoring on entrance tests, it becomes easier to sell them other add-ons, too. These extras can be more flexible, delivered online, by different providers, maybe at weekends, maybe around parents’ increasingly complex schedules now that many employers demand weekend and evening working as standard.

It becomes easy to start making a persuasive case that the current school system is too rigid and too expensive. A smaller, inexpensive core offering with premium services optional is a tantalising fulfilment of Conservative small state fantasies. Grammar schools are the perfect vehicle with which to beat the start of that path.

Perhaps it is just a pessimistic guess at a dystopian future, but it makes an uncomfortable amount of sense.