Dem Sen Murphy: ‘Clinton Shouldn’t Have Lost to Donald Trump, Period,’ Russians Aren’t ‘Sympathizers’ of the GOP
Dem Sen Murphy: 'Clinton Shouldn't Have Lost to Donald Trump, Period,' Russians Aren't 'Sympathizers' of the GOP - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER On Monday’s broadcast of CNN’s “Situation Room,” Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT) stated of concerns about Russian interference in the election, “Hillary Clinton shouldn’t have lost to Donald Trump, period, stop. This isn’t about trying to explain the results of this election.” He added, “the Russians are not sympathizers of the Republican Party.” FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Murphys said, “[I]t should certainly concern every single American that the FBI is conducting a criminal investigation into potential collusion between Donald Trump’s campaign and the Russian government. I hope that he doesn’t find any evidence of that collusion.” He further stated, “I don’t think we’ve heard a good explanation as to why” Comey revealed that there was an investigation into Clinton during the campaign, but did not do so involving the investigation into Trump’s campaign. there seems to have been a double standard. Murphy was then asked about criticisms that the Democrats are trying to make excuses for why they lost the election. He answered, “Hillary Clinton shouldn’t have lost to Donald Trump, period, stop. This isn’t about trying to explain the results of this election. This is about whether or not a foreign government gets away with trying to influence a presidential election. And Republicans may not be raising alarms like Democrats are today, because it happened to us, but the Russians are not sympathizers of the Republican Party. They are going to try to manipulate elections, with respect to how it affects them at the immediate time and moment. Two years or four years from now, it may be that the Russians are trying to manipulate elections against Republicans. So, this really shouldn’t be a partisan issue. This should be an American issue. And, I don’t know, it disturbs me when I hear the chairman of the Intelligence Committee in the House say he doesn’t know who Roger Stone and Carter Page are.” (h/t Grabien )

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

On Monday’s broadcast of CNN’s “Situation Room,” Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT) stated of concerns about Russian interference in the election, “Hillary Clinton shouldn’t have lost to Donald Trump, period, stop. This isn’t about trying to explain the results of this election.” He added, “the Russians are not sympathizers of the Republican Party.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Murphys said, “[I]t should certainly concern every single American that the FBI is conducting a criminal investigation into potential collusion between Donald Trump’s campaign and the Russian government. I hope that he doesn’t find any evidence of that collusion.”

He further stated, “I don’t think we’ve heard a good explanation as to why” Comey revealed that there was an investigation into Clinton during the campaign, but did not do so involving the investigation into Trump’s campaign. there seems to have been a double standard.

Murphy was then asked about criticisms that the Democrats are trying to make excuses for why they lost the election. He answered, “Hillary Clinton shouldn’t have lost to Donald Trump, period, stop. This isn’t about trying to explain the results of this election. This is about whether or not a foreign government gets away with trying to influence a presidential election. And Republicans may not be raising alarms like Democrats are today, because it happened to us, but the Russians are not sympathizers of the Republican Party. They are going to try to manipulate elections, with respect to how it affects them at the immediate time and moment. Two years or four years from now, it may be that the Russians are trying to manipulate elections against Republicans. So, this really shouldn’t be a partisan issue. This should be an American issue. And, I don’t know, it disturbs me when I hear the chairman of the Intelligence Committee in the House say he doesn’t know who Roger Stone and Carter Page are.”

(h/t Grabien)

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchett