Section 18C: Ethnic groups believe racial discrimination law changes send wrong message



Section 18C: Ethnic groups believe racial discrimination law changes send wrong message

Posted

Ethnic community groups say it is disappointing the Government announced its proposed changes to racial discrimination laws on Harmony Day, a day that is meant to celebrate cultural diversity.

"There's an exquisite irony in the fact that the announcement was made on Harmony Day," said Peter Wertheim, of the executive council of Australian Jewry.

"I doubt there would be any minority group in the country that would welcome this announcement."

That sentiment was echoed by Joe Caputo from the Federation of Ethnic Communities' Councils in Australia (FECCA).

"On the national day for elimination of discrimination, on Harmony Day, I am really surprised the Government has done this," he said.

"This is not the way you build a cohesive, strong, inclusive society."

Nail Aykan from the Islamic Council of Victoria said the Racial Discrimination Act is working and questioned the need for changes.

"If it ain't broke, don't fix it," he said.

"We should not be wasting our time playing around with words and should attend to far more pressing issues at hand. It makes you wonder where politicians' priorities are.

"The act as it is has served social cohesion very well. Any tinkering or watering-down can potentially jeopardise a lot of progress made."

Changes don't improve inclusion within society: FECCA

Some ethnic groups see the Government's proposed changes as ideological or motivated by political expediency.

"Somebody has to explain to me how do you build an inclusive society by allowing people to be offended, insulted and humiliated? Somebody has to explain that to me," said Mr Caputo.

"Whilst laws do not by themselves build a better society, they do send a clear message about what's allowed and what's not allowed.

"We should have a clear message, from the Prime Minister down, to say that we are living in a civilised society and we want to build bridges among all the people who live here, independent of their background, religion or colour of their skin."

Discrimination remains a daily reality for many migrants according to Richard Deng from the South Sudanese Association of Victoria.

"As a community, we have concerns because discrimination is everywhere. In the workplace, at the bus station, in the park," he said.

"It is important that we have a law that protects everyone."

How does one put themselves in the shoes of a minority group?

The peak representative body of Jewish groups in Australia says the proposed changes would leave victims of some form of racial vilification without access to legal remedy.

"In effect, you could make any derogatory generalisation about any minority group that doesn't rise to the level of harassment or intimidation and from this point onwards, it will be treated with impunity," said executive director Peter Wertheim.

"I think that's a terrible signal for any Government to be sending the community."

He is also concerned about a move to make a "reasonable member of the Australian community" as the objective standard by which any breach of section 18C of the Racial Discrimination Act should be judged.

"It sounds superficially attractive but when you actually think about it, how does the average person in a pub or on the proverbial Bondi tram, put themselves in the shoes of a member of a minority community that they know nothing about?

"The current legal test is a much more appropriate one because it is gauged by the standard of a reasonable member of the group affected, that is somebody who is not overly sensitive, and not overly thick-skinned."

He said it was a "sad day" for Australia and predicted difficult times ahead.

"If anyone thinks this will be a quick and easy process, I think they are mistaken."

Topics: race-relations, federal-government, australia