Nail salon charges extra for overweight people
Nail salon charges extra for overweight people
A sign, apparently put up by the Rose Nails salon in Memphis, Tennessee, reads: Sorry, but if you are overweight, pedicures will be $45 due to service fees for pedicurists. Thank you! Disgruntled customer Deshania Ferguson photographed the notice and posted it on Facebook, saying: Went to get my nails done on Overton Crossing and Frayser Blvd and this is what they have up....so rude.  The picture has since been shared more than 500 times. Beautician Saquoia Seaberry wrote on Facebook: I can somewhat understand where they're coming from but I'd never post a sign that's so rude and distasteful. I struggle lifting up the heavy legs of clients whether they're overweight or 6'9 300lbs. It's part of the business, accommodate the clients. However another user, Tabitha Toblessed Hall, was more sympathetic with the policy: If your legs and feet is three times the average person there is nothing wrong with charging extra that's a lot of work lifting, it's not discrimination it's business. Speaking to local Tennessee station, , salon owner Son Nguyen denied that the sign ever existed, in spite of the photographic evidence. However, he did acknowledge that sometimes the business would turn away overweight customers because it is “difficult for technicians to give them pedicures”. He also claimed that chairs had been broken by larger clients.                    Keep scrolling for next article

A nail salon has sparked outrage by allegedly trying to charge overweight people more for treatments.

A sign, apparently put up by the Rose Nails salon in Memphis, Tennessee, reads:

Sorry, but if you are overweight, pedicures will be $45 due to service fees for pedicurists. Thank you!

Disgruntled customer Deshania Ferguson photographed the notice and posted it on Facebook, saying:

Went to get my nails done on Overton Crossing and Frayser Blvd and this is what they have up....so rude.

The picture has since been shared more than 500 times.

Beautician Saquoia Seaberry wrote on Facebook:

I can somewhat understand where they're coming from but I'd never post a sign that's so rude and distasteful. I struggle lifting up the heavy legs of clients whether they're overweight or 6'9 300lbs. It's part of the business, accommodate the clients.

However another user, Tabitha Toblessed Hall, was more sympathetic with the policy:

If your legs and feet is three times the average person there is nothing wrong with charging extra that's a lot of work lifting, it's not discrimination it's business.

Speaking to local Tennessee station, WREG, salon owner Son Nguyen denied that the sign ever existed, in spite of the photographic evidence.

However, he did acknowledge that sometimes the business would turn away overweight customers because it is “difficult for technicians to give them pedicures”.

He also claimed that chairs had been broken by larger clients.

The sign now appears to have been taken down.

HT News.com.au

More: Why we bite our nails