Section 18C: Political debate prompts Australians to share their experiences with racism



Section 18C: Political debate prompts Australians to share their experiences with racism

Updated

Parliamentary debate over changes to section 18C of Australia's Racial Discrimination Act has sparked a huge online discussion about experiences of racism in Australia.

On Tuesday, the Government announced its proposed changes to the act — amendments Malcolm Turnbull said would increase freedom of speech and strengthen race hate laws by making them clearer and more effective.

During Question Time, Labor MP Anne Aly sought to clarify what the Prime Minister meant by increasing freedom of speech.

"As someone who has been subjected to racism time and time again … please give me an answer: what exactly does the Prime Minister want people to be able to say that they cannot say now?" she asked.

The Prime Minister deflected, saying Australians were entitled to speak freely.

"It is one of our fundamental rights and we are striking the balance at the right point between protection against racial vilification and protecting free speech," he said.

Minutes later, Ms Aly posed her question to Mr Turnbull again, and this time he had an answer.

"I can assure her that my Government — and I believe all Australians — are absolutely opposed to racism in any form," Mr Turnbull responded.

"The suggestion that those people who support a change to the wording of section 18C are somehow racist is a deeply offensive one."

#FreedomOfSpeech callout prompts massive response

Following the Government's announcement to change section 18C, writer Benjamin Law started the hashtag #FreedomOfSpeech, encouraging users to share their experiences with racism.

In a series of tweets Law shared his experiences with racism in Australia, including physical assaults and racial slurs.

"Gold Coast, 21, man slams into my shoulder saying, 'Fucking gook'. I retaliated, but would've been bashed if not for mates," said another tweet.

"Last week a white Australian said about a speech I gave, 'You speak better English than me and I've been here all my life.'"

Law's callout prompted a massive response from people who had been the victim of racism, or who had beared witnessed to racism in Australia.

Within the hour, #FreedomOfSpeech was trending on Twitter and remained trending for much of the day, something Law said evoked "a bittersweet feeling".

Topics: government-and-politics, race-relations, community-and-society, turnbull-malcolm, australia

First posted