Rich New Yorkers ask state to raise their taxes
Rich New Yorkers ask state to raise their taxes
Shares                Some of the wealthiest New Yorkers are asking the state to raise their taxes. Eighty people including George Soros , Steven Rockefeller and Abigail Disney wrote to lawmakers and Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo saying they and other top earners should pay more to support schools, roads, bridges and programs to help poor and homeless residents of the state. "Now is the time to invest in the long-term economic viability of New York," the letter reads. "We need to invest in pathways out of poverty and up the economic ladder for all of our fellow citizens, including strong public education from pre-K to college. And, we need to invest in the fragile bridges, tunnels, waterlines, public buildings, and roads that we all depend on." The letter, a copy of which was obtained by the Associated Press, endorses a plan that would create new, higher income tax brackets for top earners to raise a projected $2 billion. Many of those signing the letter are millionaires and all make more than $650,000, making them members of the state's top 1 percent when it comes to income. The proposal is being pushed by the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal-leaning economic think tank. Ron Deutsch, the Fiscal Policy Institute's executive director, said it was "refreshing" that so many of the state's richest residents are willing to contribute more. Their proposal faces significant political obstacles in the state Legislature. While the Democratic majority in the Assembly has its own plan to increase taxes on millionaires, the Republican-led Senate opposes the idea. Lawmakers are now negotiating the details of the state budget and hope to have a deal in place by April 1. "They support higher taxes on themselves so the state can fund our glaring human and physical infrastructure needs and have adequate revenue in place to handle pending federal cuts," he said. A similar letter last year was largely ignored by lawmakers. Shares                  Rich New Yorkers ask state to raise their taxes   If you really want to know what is happening on the US-Mexico border, ask these residents   Trump sidesteps Russia inquiry at rally   Martin McGuinness, Irish rebel turned politician, dies at 66   Massive 8-alarm fire destroys multiple homes in Kansas   Arrest made in deaths of 2 Colorado teens   Spicer: Former campaign chairman had 'limited role'   FBI head has 'no information' backing Trump wiretap claims   Key moments from hearing with FBI Director Comey   Newspaper executive allegedly stole Brady jersey   Man claims NYC bar denied him service over pro-Trump hat   Teen EMT delivers her 1st baby, born 2 weeks early, in couple's bedroom   Girl battling cancer granted wish of seeing 'A Dog's Purpose,' gets visit from dog in film   Brotherly love: Two brothers who live 1,000 miles apart reunite in heartwarming viral video   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   How long before your cosmetic products should be replaced?   Boot, wheelbarrow, thimble ousted from Monopoly board game   Tree stump turned into 'The Giving Tree' tribute   Trump rips NFL QB Kaepernick during speech in Kentucky   Former aides set to testify against Penn State ex-president   Attorney: Oklahoma state senator plans to resign   Billionaire Gates meets with Trump to talk foreign aid   Guardian of Rockefeller fortune, philanthropy dies at 101   Shaq latest in the NBA community to join flat-Earth belief   Tiger Woods on his possible return to The Masters   Battered by scandal, Marines issue new social media policy   Bridge closure leaves California's Big Sur community reeling   Family fighting to stop deportation of veteran who served 2 tours in Afghanistan   Colorado wildfire 50 percent contained, hundreds evacuated   Baltimore police search for suspect in firebombing that killed 2 and injured 6   Chicago-based group brings smiles to deaf Syrian children   Spike Lee calls lack of suitors for Colin Kaepernick 'fishy'   'Rogue One' screenwriter reveals alternate ending for Jyn and company   Chuck Berry's family will release new music 'in the coming days'

Some of the wealthiest New Yorkers are asking the state to raise their taxes.

Eighty people including George Soros, Steven Rockefeller and Abigail Disney wrote to lawmakers and Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo saying they and other top earners should pay more to support schools, roads, bridges and programs to help poor and homeless residents of the state.

"Now is the time to invest in the long-term economic viability of New York," the letter reads. "We need to invest in pathways out of poverty and up the economic ladder for all of our fellow citizens, including strong public education from pre-K to college. And, we need to invest in the fragile bridges, tunnels, waterlines, public buildings, and roads that we all depend on."

The letter, a copy of which was obtained by the Associated Press, endorses a plan that would create new, higher income tax brackets for top earners to raise a projected $2 billion.

Many of those signing the letter are millionaires and all make more than $650,000, making them members of the state's top 1 percent when it comes to income.

The proposal is being pushed by the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal-leaning economic think tank.

Ron Deutsch, the Fiscal Policy Institute's executive director, said it was "refreshing" that so many of the state's richest residents are willing to contribute more.

Their proposal faces significant political obstacles in the state Legislature. While the Democratic majority in the Assembly has its own plan to increase taxes on millionaires, the Republican-led Senate opposes the idea. Lawmakers are now negotiating the details of the state budget and hope to have a deal in place by April 1.

"They support higher taxes on themselves so the state can fund our glaring human and physical infrastructure needs and have adequate revenue in place to handle pending federal cuts," he said.

A similar letter last year was largely ignored by lawmakers.