15 Home Decor Tips From Joanna Gaines That You’ll Want To Steal Immediately
15 Home Decor Tips From Joanna Gaines That You'll Want To Steal Immediately
Any HGTV-lover knows Joanna is one of the most inspiring designers on the planet — but have you followed her personal Instagram ?  View on Instagram It’s packed with smart decorating and organizing ideas that anyone could pull off.  View on Instagram Here are a few of the best: Set up a corner that brings you joy wherever it is you work most of the time. Besides the staghorn, Joanna hung her kid’s artwork and several items that say “16”, which is Chip’s favorite Number. This includes the laundry room, too, if that’s where you spend any significant portion of your week!  View on Instagram You don’t have to me stuck to a computer to have a daily routine that could stand little infusions of joy. Use chalkboards or letter boards for easy ways to share quotes you love that you can change later. Learn the easy way to draw a fancy chalkboard sign from BuzzFeed Weddings . Sometimes those $20 Amazon deals too good to be true. It sucks, but it happens. Still, looks fun! Choose ~skinnylap~ instead of shiplap for a modern vibe. (A modern vibe that still goes well with your other shiplap.) Or even *black* shiplap. When the clutter craziness descends, find ways to have fun with it and send silly photos to friends. Gather greenery from ~nature~ instead of looking for the perfect branch in the stores. Of course, you’d have to live by a magnolia tree to get those gorgeous leaves. Hang a clothes bar (or a tension rod) above your washer-dryer so you can hang both plants and anything you need to dry. Of course, this works best if you don’t already have cabinets above your washer and dryer. To hang plants, you’ll probably want to screw the rod into the walls instead of attempting to hang something too heavy on a tension rod. Encourage kids to contribute their own decorating touches, especially to their spaces. Have something that you need to do multiple times per week? Draw up a weekly schedule that you can reference through the month. You could also put this on a chalkboard. Just put days on it, not dates, if you don’t want to re-do it every month. Choose lower-maintenance plants if you’re a beginner or busy indoor gardener. Aloe or a are both good choices. Stick leftover basil in a bouquet for extra fragrance. Plant flowers that attract butterflies, bumblebees, and hummingbirds under your windows. Read the long story about this pic on Insta , but have a tissue ready for your happy tears. Don’t skip planning and brainstorming, whether you’re redecorating your kitchen or just organizing your pantry. And when things don’t go the way you planned, let yourself be frustrated and take a break! Everyone knocks vases over sometimes. For more inspiration, check out her Pinterest boards , too. #TeamJo   I Just Found Out About These Insane Indoor Slides And...    15 Home Decor Tips From Joanna Gaines That You'll Want...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.