Bigg Boss Contestant Swami Om Likely To Be Arrested After Being Denied Bail In Molestation Case
Bigg Boss Contestant Swami Om Likely To Be Arrested After Being Denied Bail In Molestation Case
Bigg Boss Contestant Swami Om Likely To Be Arrested After Being Denied Bail In Molestation Case Bigg Boss fame Swami Om has landed in another controversy. The self-proclaimed Godman has been denied bail in a molestation case, in which, the victim said that he attempted to rape her. For the uninitiated, a FIR was registered against Swami Om and co-accused Santosh Anand by a woman who claimed that both of them hurled abuses at her on Feb. 7, after which Swami Om took her to a room where he ripped off her clothes in an attempt to rape her. Special Judge Sanjeev Aggarwal said in a statement that Swami Om’s bail plea has been rejected on grounds that he might intimidate the victim and try to hamper the investigation against him. Here’s what he said in a statement: “Considering the grave and serious allegations against the present accused and considering his (Om's) past involvement and the fact that there are chances of intimidation of witnesses as well hampering of investigation by him, no ground for anticipatory bail is made out at this stage,” DNA quoted him as saying. But Swami Om had, earlier, denied all the allegations against him. He said that he was falsely implicated in the case. He said that since he advocates social culture, people just want to halt his “social activity”. Swami Om was granted interim relief by the court until March 14, giving time to Delhi Police to produce CCTV footage of the incident. The police, however, failed to produce the footage claiming that it was automatically deleted, and hence, couldn't be retrieved. However, the mobile records of Swami Om reflected that he was present at the alleged location.

Bigg Boss fame Swami Om has landed in another controversy. The self-proclaimed Godman has been denied bail in a molestation case, in which, the victim said that he attempted to rape her.

For the uninitiated, a FIR was registered against Swami Om and co-accused Santosh Anand by a woman who claimed that both of them hurled abuses at her on Feb. 7, after which Swami Om took her to a room where he ripped off her clothes in an attempt to rape her.

ndtvimg.com

Special Judge Sanjeev Aggarwal said in a statement that Swami Om’s bail plea has been rejected on grounds that he might intimidate the victim and try to hamper the investigation against him. Here’s what he said in a statement:

“Considering the grave and serious allegations against the present accused and considering his (Om's) past involvement and the fact that there are chances of intimidation of witnesses as well hampering of investigation by him, no ground for anticipatory bail is made out at this stage,” DNA quoted him as saying.

dnaindia.com

But Swami Om had, earlier, denied all the allegations against him. He said that he was falsely implicated in the case. He said that since he advocates social culture, people just want to halt his “social activity”.

india.com

Swami Om was granted interim relief by the court until March 14, giving time to Delhi Police to produce CCTV footage of the incident. The police, however, failed to produce the footage claiming that it was automatically deleted, and hence, couldn't be retrieved. However, the mobile records of Swami Om reflected that he was present at the alleged location.

Don't Miss 54.1 K SHARES 30 K SHARES 27.2 K SHARES 51.2 K SHARES 35 K SHARES