What is Drake’s More Life: a mixtape, an album or a playlist?

his year has so far proved confusing for anyone old enough to remember a time – not that long ago – when music fans knew where they were with new releases. Artists put out singles and albums: occasionally an EP, or a mini-album. But things have changed. You don’t have to have thought last week’s Ed Sheeran-dominated singles chart was a national disaster to realise that it made the concept of the single seem abstract and defunct. Certainly, it looks unlikely that there will be a more baffling press release this year than the one sent out last Friday afternoon, announcing that Sheeran was releasing Galway Girl as a single , a week after it went to No 2 in the singles chart on the basis of download sales as an album track. Now Drake appears to have singlehandedly invented a new category of release. His latest, the 22-track More Life, is apparently a “playlist” : fresh bewilderment for anyone already struggling to work out the difference between albums and the mixtapes that proliferate in the world of hip-hop and R&B. For anyone not up to speed with the latter, a mixtape is an album that’s usually, but not always, given away free; is generally, but not always, less thematically coherent than an actual album; normally doesn’t contain singles, but sometimes does, and tends to act as a kind of interstitial release between “official” albums, except when it doesn’t: the career of celebrated, Grammy-nominated hip-hop star Chance the Rapper , for example, is wholly predicated on mixtapes – he’s never released an “official” album. Clear? Quite how Drake’s playlist differs from a mixtape – he’s already released four of those – isn’t clear, including, apparently, to Drake himself, who has announced he is “off mixtapes” and vaguely suggested that a playlist is different because it’s “a collection of songs that become the soundtrack to your life” . It’s hardly a low-key placeholder: he’s been talking it up since last October, when one track from it, Fake Love , was released as a single and made the Top 10. But even if the difference between albums, mixtapes and playlists is increasingly a matter of semantics, the existence of the latter pair might tell you something about the nature of pop stardom in 2017. Something, that is, that differs slightly from the boasts of Stakhanovite creativity with which Drake announced More Life (“most people would like go probably take a break”) – the notion that even a star as big as Drake feels he has to continually feed his audience with new material, lest his momentum flags. You could see this as a very modern development redolent of short attention spans in the digital age – a kind of musical equivalent of “always on” marketing. Or you could see it as oddly old-fashioned, a return to the music industry of the 60s and early 70s, where even big artists were expected to turn out a couple of albums and a brace of singles every year. Anyone who thinks Drake’s workrate is impressive might consider the release schedule of James Brown, who in 1966 alone released six albums and 12 singles. Perhaps the confusing new pop landscape is more familiar than it first appears.  Drake   Shortcuts   Music industry   Pop and rock   Hip-hop   Rap   Ed Sheeran   features

This year has so far proved confusing for anyone old enough to remember a time – not that long ago – when music fans knew where they were with new releases. Artists put out singles and albums: occasionally an EP, or a mini-album.

But things have changed. You don’t have to have thought last week’s Ed Sheeran-dominated singles chart was a national disaster to realise that it made the concept of the single seem abstract and defunct. Certainly, it looks unlikely that there will be a more baffling press release this year than the one sent out last Friday afternoon, announcing that Sheeran was releasing Galway Girl as a single, a week after it went to No 2 in the singles chart on the basis of download sales as an album track.

Now Drake appears to have singlehandedly invented a new category of release. His latest, the 22-track More Life, is apparently a “playlist”: fresh bewilderment for anyone already struggling to work out the difference between albums and the mixtapes that proliferate in the world of hip-hop and R&B.

Ed Sheeran singles chart takeover spurs calls for 'drastic rethink' Read more

For anyone not up to speed with the latter, a mixtape is an album that’s usually, but not always, given away free; is generally, but not always, less thematically coherent than an actual album; normally doesn’t contain singles, but sometimes does, and tends to act as a kind of interstitial release between “official” albums, except when it doesn’t: the career of celebrated, Grammy-nominated hip-hop star Chance the Rapper, for example, is wholly predicated on mixtapes – he’s never released an “official” album. Clear?

Quite how Drake’s playlist differs from a mixtape – he’s already released four of those – isn’t clear, including, apparently, to Drake himself, who has announced he is “off mixtapes” and vaguely suggested that a playlist is different because it’s “a collection of songs that become the soundtrack to your life”. It’s hardly a low-key placeholder: he’s been talking it up since last October, when one track from it, Fake Love, was released as a single and made the Top 10. But even if the difference between albums, mixtapes and playlists is increasingly a matter of semantics, the existence of the latter pair might tell you something about the nature of pop stardom in 2017.

Something, that is, that differs slightly from the boasts of Stakhanovite creativity with which Drake announced More Life (“most people would like go probably take a break”) – the notion that even a star as big as Drake feels he has to continually feed his audience with new material, lest his momentum flags.

You could see this as a very modern development redolent of short attention spans in the digital age – a kind of musical equivalent of “always on” marketing. Or you could see it as oddly old-fashioned, a return to the music industry of the 60s and early 70s, where even big artists were expected to turn out a couple of albums and a brace of singles every year.

Anyone who thinks Drake’s workrate is impressive might consider the release schedule of James Brown, who in 1966 alone released six albums and 12 singles. Perhaps the confusing new pop landscape is more familiar than it first appears.