Gay Dads Write A Moving Thank You Letter To An Airline For Supporting Same-Sex Marriage
Gay Dads Write A Moving Thank You Letter To An Airline For Supporting Same-Sex Marriage
Gay Dads Write A Moving Thank You Letter To An Airline For Supporting Same-Sex Marriage Two fathers from Sydney have thanked Qantas and its CEO, Alan Joyce for showing support to same-sex marriage in Australia. In a heartwarming letter to the airline, the dads wrote, "Thank you Qantas and its CEO Alan Joyce for supporting same-sex marriage here in Australia." The two men shared a photo on Instagram where they held their sons in a Qantas flight. The duo said, "We dream of a future where our relationship is treated equally to all others, and our boys are never forced to question or defend their parents’ relationship." Thank you @qantas and its CEO Alan Joyce for supporting same-sex marriage here in Australia. One day I will be able to walk down the aisle holding the hands of my two sons to get married to the love of my life. This will become a reality because of your support. Qantas has already been part of our dream to become parents. Just last year in September we left LA with our two month twin boys and arrived home to Sydney where our new lives would begin. We were anxious on this journey home, but were welcomed with open arms by the beautiful Qantas flight attendants. We dream of a future where our relationship is treated equally to all others, and our boys are never forced to question or defend their parents' relationship. #qantas #marriageequality #thankyou #equality #lgbtpride #gaydads #gayfamily #gaylove #familygoals #relationshipgoals #love #happiness #frequentflyer #modernfamily #gay#rainbowfamily A post shared by Inz Tribe (@inz_tribe) on Mar 18, 2017 at 2:35pm PDT   Qantas's chief, Alan Joyce recently signed a letter along with 30 other executives to the Australian Prime Minister, Malcolm Turnbull, calling him to legalise same-sex marriage. Their photo got over 2,000 hits on Instagram with people congratulating the couple and blessing their beautiful family.

Two fathers from Sydney have thanked Qantas and its CEO, Alan Joyce for showing support to same-sex marriage in Australia.

In a heartwarming letter to the airline, the dads wrote, "Thank you Qantas and its CEO Alan Joyce for supporting same-sex marriage here in Australia."

Inz_Tribe/Instagram

The two men shared a photo on Instagram where they held their sons in a Qantas flight. The duo said, "We dream of a future where our relationship is treated equally to all others, and our boys are never forced to question or defend their parents’ relationship."

Qantas's chief, Alan Joyce recently signed a letter along with 30 other executives to the Australian Prime Minister, Malcolm Turnbull, calling him to legalise same-sex marriage.

Their photo got over 2,000 hits on Instagram with people congratulating the couple and blessing their beautiful family.