Wyclef Jean Reportedly Handcuffed by L.A. Deputies After Being Mistaken for Robbery Suspect
Wyclef Jean Reportedly Handcuffed by L.A. Deputies After Being Mistaken for Robbery Suspect
Wyclef Jean was mistaken for an armed robbery suspect and handcuffed by Los Angeles County Sheriff's deputies early Tuesday morning,  reported . Wyclef and two passengers were first pulled over by deputies at approximately 1:30 a.m. in West Hollywood. According to 's law enforcement sources, the vehicle "matched the description" of a car used in an armed robbery. Wyclef was also reportedly wearing a similar bandana, which Wyclef said was removed by authorities. Wyclef shared videos of the incident on social media, saying he was "treated like a criminal" and handcuffed before being asked to identify himself: I was asked by the police to Put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly hand cuffed before being asked to identify myself and before being told why. In the process I said my name and told them they have wrong person. They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal. I am sure no father wants his sons or daughters to see him in Handcuffs especially if he is innocent. As some one who has law enforcers in my family, I was appalled by the bahavior of the LAPD. A post shared by Wyclef Jean (@wyclefjean) on Mar 21, 2017 at 6:23am PDT Why am I in Handcuffs!!!!!????? This is what I said to the LAPD after they put me in Handcuffs for mistaken identity !!!!!!! A post shared by Wyclef Jean (@wyclefjean) on Mar 21, 2017 at 4:52am PDT Wyclef also detailed the incident on Twitter, adding that his attempts at identifying himself were ignored until "other police" arrived at the scene and pointed out they had the wrong person: LAPD another case of mistaken identity. Black man with red bandana robbed a gas station as I was in the studio working but im in handcuffs? pic.twitter.com/vjRfJUkooA I was asked by the police to Put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly hand cuffed before being asked to identify myself Nor was I told why I was being cuffed. In the process I said my name and told them they have wrong person. They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal until other police showed up and pointed out they had wrong person. I am sure no father wants his sons or daughters to see him in Handcuffs especially if he is innocent. As some one who has law enforcers in my family, I was appalled by this behavior of the LAPD. Though Wyclef repeatedly mentions "LAPD" in his account,  reported Tuesday that LA County Sheriff's deputies were actually the ones cuffing him. The suspect was reportedly apprehended around the same time. The LA County Sheriff's Department did not immediately respond to Complex's request for comment.

Wyclef Jean was mistaken for an armed robbery suspect and handcuffed by Los Angeles County Sheriff's deputies early Tuesday morning, TMZ reported. Wyclef and two passengers were first pulled over by deputies at approximately 1:30 a.m. in West Hollywood. According to TMZ's law enforcement sources, the vehicle "matched the description" of a car used in an armed robbery. Wyclef was also reportedly wearing a similar bandana, which Wyclef said was removed by authorities.

Wyclef shared videos of the incident on social media, saying he was "treated like a criminal" and handcuffed before being asked to identify himself:

I was asked by the police to Put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly hand cuffed before being asked to identify myself and before being told why. In the process I said my name and told them they have wrong person. They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal. I am sure no father wants his sons or daughters to see him in Handcuffs especially if he is innocent. As some one who has law enforcers in my family, I was appalled by the bahavior of the LAPD. A post shared by Wyclef Jean (@wyclefjean) on Mar 21, 2017 at 6:23am PDT

Why am I in Handcuffs!!!!!????? This is what I said to the LAPD after they put me in Handcuffs for mistaken identity !!!!!!! A post shared by Wyclef Jean (@wyclefjean) on Mar 21, 2017 at 4:52am PDT

Wyclef also detailed the incident on Twitter, adding that his attempts at identifying himself were ignored until "other police" arrived at the scene and pointed out they had the wrong person:

LAPD another case of mistaken identity. Black man with red bandana robbed a gas station as I was in the studio working but im in handcuffs? pic.twitter.com/vjRfJUkooA — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017

I was asked by the police to Put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly hand cuffed before being asked to identify myself — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017

Nor was I told why I was being cuffed. In the process I said my name and told them they have wrong person. — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017

They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal until other police showed up and pointed out they had wrong person. — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017

I am sure no father wants his sons or daughters to see him in Handcuffs especially if he is innocent. — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017

As some one who has law enforcers in my family, I was appalled by this behavior of the LAPD. — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) March 21, 2017

Though Wyclef repeatedly mentions "LAPD" in his account, TMZ reported Tuesday that LA County Sheriff's deputies were actually the ones cuffing him. The actual suspect was reportedly apprehended around the same time. The LA County Sheriff's Department did not immediately respond to Complex's request for comment.