Lil Wayne Says He's Not Stressin' About 'Bullsh-t A-- Birdman' at Mass Appeal's Live at the BBQ
Lil Wayne Says He's Not Stressin' About 'Bullsh-t A-- Birdman' at Mass Appeal's Live at the BBQ
Lil Wayne Says He's Not Stressin' About 'Bullsh-t A-- Birdman' at Mass Appeal's Live at the BBQ  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Lil Wayne ain't got no worries. During his recent performance at Mass Appeal's Live at the BBQ show during SXSWÂ in Austin, Texas this past weekend, TunechiÂ commented yet again on his legal strife with Birdman and Cash Money Records.Â "In all honesty, I know y'all do know I am going through some bullsh-t with my motherf--kin' career," the headlinerÂ told the crowd, according to Mass Appeal's YouTube clip published Tuesday (March 20).Â "N---as tryna steer my career without letting me do or say a damn thing. But it's moments like this that make that bullsh-tÂ this big to me," WeezyÂ added, demonstrating that his problems with Baby -- which include withholding his long-anticipatedÂ album amidst lawsuitsÂ -- were teeny.  "If you think that I am stressin' or lettin' this sh-t, get to me, please remember," he continued,Â "there's too much good p---y and too many great motherf--kin' loyal fans to worry about bullsh-t a--Â Birdman."Â Right on cue, the New Orleans rapper then launched into his hit "No Worries." Wayne's fiery comments come after Rick Ross aired out Birdman for relatedÂ reasons on "Idols Become Rivals" off his ninth albumÂ Birdman recently responded to the claims that he wasn't paying artists and producers, tellingÂ "I don't get caught up in hoe sh-t, man. I just keep doing what I'm doing and keep pushing.Â I don't get caught up in that, I don't play like that. I'm a man and I stand my ground and I do my thing. Numbers don't lie, and that's all I give a f--k about: numbers, and puttin' them up."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Lil Wayne performs onstage at the Mass Appeal music showcase during 2017 SXSW Conference and Festivals at Stubbs on March 16, 2017 in Austin, Texas.

Lil Wayne ain't got no worries. During his recent performance at Mass Appeal's Live at the BBQ show during SXSWÂ in Austin, Texas this past weekend, TunechiÂ commented yet again on his legal strife with Birdman and Cash Money Records.Â

"In all honesty, I know y'all do know I am going through some bullsh-t with my motherf--kin' career," the headlinerÂ told the crowd, according to Mass Appeal's YouTube clip published Tuesday (March 20).Â

"N---as tryna steer my career without letting me do or say a damn thing. But it's moments like this that make that bullsh-tÂ this big to me," WeezyÂ added, demonstrating that his problems with Baby -- which include withholding his long-anticipatedÂ Tha Carter VÂ album amidst lawsuitsÂ -- were teeny.

"If you think that I am stressin' or lettin' this sh-t, get to me, please remember," he continued,Â "there's too much good p---y and too many great motherf--kin' loyal fans to worry about bullsh-t a--Â Birdman."Â

Right on cue, the New Orleans rapper then launched into his hit "No Worries."

Wayne's fiery comments come after Rick Ross aired out Birdman for relatedÂ reasons on "Idols Become Rivals" off his ninth albumÂ Rather You Than Me.Â

Birdman recently responded to the claims that he wasn't paying artists and producers, tellingÂ Billboard,Â "I don't get caught up in hoe sh-t, man. I just keep doing what I'm doing and keep pushing.Â I don't get caught up in that, I don't play like that. I'm a man and I stand my ground and I do my thing. Numbers don't lie, and that's all I give a f--k about: numbers, and puttin' them up."