Follow Neil Gorsuch’s Supreme Court Confirmation Hearing LIVE
Follow our live blog of Judge Neil Gorsuch's confirmation hearing
Donald Trump's Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch began the second day of his confirmation hearing by stating that the Roe v. Wade precedent "has been reaffirmed many times," and telling the Senate Judiciary Committee that the question of whether he could rule against Trump was a "softball."  While Monday's opening hearing featured statements and introductions, senators now have the chance to directly question Gorsuch on anything from specific cases to his overall judicial temperament. Each of the 20 senators on the committee will get 30 minutes to question Gorsuch, so Tuesday's hearing is expected to last upwards of 10 hours — and we'll be here for all of it. Follow NBCNews.com's live blog and tune in to MSNBC for coverage and analysis. Latest Minnesota Sen. Al Franken slammed Gorsuch about a case that's come up repeatedly in today's hearing — the freezing truck driver — demanding to know how he'd have responded in the same scenario. "I had a career in identifiying absurdity and I know it when I see it. I question your judgement," demanded Franken, a former comedian and Saturday Night Live writer, who repeatedly pressed Gorsuch on the issue. "Don't you think it's absurd?" Watch the contentious exchange here.       Pressed by Sen. Amy Klobuchar on whether he supports TV coverage of Supreme Court proceedings, Neil Gorsuch first joked that he's pretty new to the whole topic. "I've experienced more cameras in the last few weeks than I've experienced in my lifetime," he said. Pressed a bit more by the Minnesota Democrat, he declined to give a definite answer, saying "I would treat it like I would any other case or controversy. I would want to hear the arguments." According to a new poll from C-SPAN , 76% of Americans support TV coverage of oral arguments in the Supreme Court.       We aren't the only ones watching the Gorsuch hearings today, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee is live tweeting — and mocking — the proceedings. Huckabee ran for president in 2016 but failed to make headway amid Trump's rise and he endorsed the now president nearly a year ago after exiting the race.     Watching Foghorn Leghorn cartoons on TV...NO WAIT-it's just Senators at Gorsuch hearing making Foghorn look smart. https://t.co/uKRtYVMhjs Breaking News! Jimmy Dean Sausage Co will be renamed GORSUCH SAUSAGE because he's grinding up some Democrat Senators into PURE PORK SAUSAGE! Leahy at Gorsuch hearing is more effective than Ambien in inducing sleep; He makes Hillary look like a candidate for Dancing w/ the Stars! Dems didn't believe POTUS should appoint SCOTUS in last yr if POTUS was GOP;now they hate it THEIR rule is being applied to THEM. #hypocrisy Gorsuch very impressive.Dems look small and Gorsuch stands tall by separating personal views from the law;it's what we hope for at SCOTUS.       While Gorsuch didn't have an answer to why an outside group that spent millions of dollars in efforts to advocate against President Obama's nomination of Merrick Garland was now spending millions advocating for his confirmation, Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse made his point about "dark money" clear.  Watch the exchange:       During his confirmation hearing, Neil Gorsuch lamented partisanship in the Supreme Court confirmation process. It's not a new argument for the Colorado judge, who decried a tilt toward ideological voting on nominees in an op-ed shortly after the death in 2002 of his oft-cited mentor Byron White, whose confirmation hearing in 1962 lasted just 90 minutes. Here's what Gorusch wrote then:  Today, there are too many who are concerned less with promoting the best public servants and more with enforcing litmus tests and locating unknown "stealth candidates" who are perceived as likely to advance favored political causes once on the bench. Politicians and pressure groups on both sides declare that they will not support nominees unless they hew to their own partisan creeds. When a favored candidate is voted down for lack of sufficient political sympathy to those in control, grudges are held for years, and retaliation is guaranteed. In the same piece in 2002, Gorsuch expressed dismay that "some of the most impressive judicial nominees are grossly mistreated." One of those "mistreated" nominees? None other than Merrick Garland, who at the time waited for a year and a half for confirmation to the U.S. Court of Appeals. Meanwhile, some of the most impressive judicial nominees are grossly mistreated. Take Merrick Garland and John Roberts, two appointees to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C. Both were Supreme Court clerks. Both served with distinction at the Department of Justice. Both are widely considered to be among the finest lawyers of their generation. Garland, a Clinton appointee, was actively promoted by Republican Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah. Roberts, a Bush nominee, has the backing of Seth Waxman, President Bill Clinton's solicitor general. But neither Garland nor Roberts has chosen to live his life as a shirker; both have litigated controversial cases involving "hot-button" issues. As a result, Garland was left waiting for 18 months before being confirmed over the opposition of 23 senators. On Tuesday, it's worth noting, Gorsuch said he respects Garland but said "I cannot get involved in politics" regarding the Obama Supreme Court pick's blockage by Republicans in the Senate.       Confronted again with the case of Alphonse Maddin — the TransAm Trucking driver who was fired for leaving a trailer with frozen breaks, against his employers wishes, because he said he was losing feeling in his limbs in the subzero temperatures — Gorsuch insisted that he believed it was the right legal decision to side with the employer in the matter. "This is one of those you take home at night. The law said, the man is protected and can't be fired if he refuses to operate an unsafe vehicle. The facts of the case, at least as I understood them, was that Mr. Maddin chose to operate his vehicle, to drive away, and therefore wasn't protected by the law," Gorsuch said halfway through a ten-hour marathon questioning session. Gorsuch's dissent on the case — after his colleagues insisted the law protected him — has come up repeatedly during his confirmation hearing, with Democrats criticizing him for siding with employers over "the little guy," as one senator put it on Tuesday. "My job is to apply the law that you write. The law as written said he would be protected if he refused to operate. By any plain understanding, he operated the vehicle," Gorsuch continued. "I said it was an unkind decision, I said it might have been a wrong decision, a bad decision, but my job isn't to write the law, senator, it's to apply the law. If congress passes a law saying the trucker in those circumstances gets to choose how to operate his vehicle, I'll be the first in line to enforce it. "        Amid allegations by a former student who said the judge taught his ethics class that "many" women manipulate employers for maternity benefits, . Gorsuch insisted that he often spoke to his classes about inappropriate family planning questions that women are commonly asked in job interviews and was not implying such questions were acceptable. He said he was asking students whether they had been asked such "inappropriate" questions and to consider the array of difficult answers, not whether those answers amounted to a manipulation of the system. Watch what else he said.       Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, the final questioner of the morning session, made a point to decry increasing partisanship in the Supreme Court confirmation process. Since 1975, six Supreme Court nominations have been unanimously approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee, most recently Ruth Bader Ginsburg's in 1993. But more recent nominations have seen more dissent. Both Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan received six negative votes out of the committee (Graham crossed party lines to approve both Obama-nominated picks.) A few years before, George W. Bush pick Samuel Alito faced a party-line vote from the panel, with eight members — all Democrats — giving him a thumbs down. That's not counting the two nominations since 1975 that did not win a favorable report out of committee: Robert Bork (whose nomination ultimately failed) and Clarence Thomas (who was confirmed by the full Senate after receiving no recommendation from the committee.)       Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy grilled Judge Gorsuch on the matter of travel bans, referring to both the president's campaign promises to fully ban all Muslims from entering the U.S. and the two executive orders the president signed banning certain refugees and individuals from several Muslim-majority nations. Gorsuch declined to comment as it resembled cases currently being heard in federal courts across the country, but the longtime Democratic senator pressed on and asked about the issue repeatedly. "Is a blanket religious test, is that consistent with the First Amendment?" Leahy asked again. "We have a free exercise clause, which protects the free exercise of religious liberties by all persons in this country," he said. "If you're asking how I would apply it to a specific case, I can't talk about that for obvious reasons." Gorsuch deflected repeatedly, but became heated when insisting that any ruling from his bench would be just. "Anyone, any law is going to get a fair square deal with me," he said. "My job is to treat every litigant as I would wish to be treated." Asked again if he believed the president's national security directives were subject to judicial review, as the president has complained of previously, and Gorsuch answered simply: "No man is above the law."       Asked about the Judicial Committee's handling of Merrick Garland's Supreme Court nomination last year, Gorsuch expressed his respect of Garland's legal opinion while declining to comment. "I can't get involved in politics and there's judicial canons that prevent me from doing that," he said. "I think it would be imprudent." Garland was nominated over a year ago by then-President Barack Obama to fill the current vacancy on the court but Republicans refused to take up his nomination or give him a hearing, citing election year politics as the reason. Democratic anger remains over how Garland's nomination was handled by the majority and it is a major issue for them in the current confirmation process.       If Neil Gorsuch is confirmed, it'll be a 6-3 split on the Supreme Court. Between Harvard and Yale, that is. Gorsuch, a Harvard Law graduate, would join four other justices who graduated from the prestigious school. One other justice, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, also attended Harvard but transferred and ultimately graduated from Columbia Law School. The other three justices attended Yale Law School.       The abortion issue predictably was raised out of the gate with questions on Roe v. Wade from both the committee chairman and the ranking Democrat.  When asked if the case had been correctly decided, Gorsuch said it was "a precedent of the United States Supreme Court. It has been reaffirmed."  Gorsuch hesitated to call it a "super precedent," but said "it has been reaffirmed many times."  Watch the first of what should be many exhanges on the issue of abortion here:       At 49 years old, Neil Gorsuch would be relatively young for a new Supreme Court justice. The Pew Research Center notes that the average age of former justices when they took the oath of office was 53, and 74 of 104 former justices were 50 or older when joining the high court. But Gorsuch is still older than his judicial idol, Byron White, who was just 44 at the time of his appointment. The youngest new justice ever was Joseph Story, who was just 32 years old when he joined the court in 1812.       The first question of the confirmation hearing came from chairman Chuck Grassley, who asked if Judge Gorsuch would have any problem ruling against the president who nominated him. "That's a softball, Mr. Chairman," he fired back with a smile. "I have no problem ruling against a person or any party." Gorsuch argued that the legal merits of the case is the only thing he regards when deciding a case: "There's no such thing as a Republican judge or a Democrat judge, there's just judges." The judge went on to add that during the nomination process he had not been asked to commit to rule in any case. "You should be reassured because no one in the process, from the point that I was contacted…from the time I was nominated, no one in that process asked me for any commitment, any promises or how I'd rule in any case," he said.       As Day Two of Neil Gorsuch's confirmation hearing gets underway, here's a quick look back at the history of the committee's work vetting nominees for the high court. According to the Congressional Research Service , since its creation in 1816, the Senate Judiciary Committee has reported 106 Supreme Court nominations to the full Senate. Seven of those nominees were reported unfavorably — meaning that the panel voted not to endorse the nominee but to give the full Senate the final choice of whether or not the pick should be confirmed. The most recent unfavorably reported nomination was Robert Bork's in 1987. Supreme Court Associate Justice Clarence Thomas's nomination in 1991 was reported without a recommendation at all after a deadlock in the committee. Most of the time, the full Senate has agreed with the Judiciary Committee's favorable assessments when it votes on nominees, but not always! Three times in the 20th century, the full Senate has disagreed — including in 1968, when lawmakers nixed the confirmation of Abe Fortas to be the Chief Justice of the court even after the committee gave him a green light. Supreme Court confirmation hearings have received gavel-to-gavel television coverage since 1981, when Sandra Day O'Connor was nominated to the court.       As the second day of the confirmation hearings for Neil Gorsuch begin, all eyes are on the Democrats to see if GOP leadership can pick up the 8 votes they need from the minority party to get the nomination through a cloture vote. But the still bitter feelings about the majority's handling of Merrick Garland's nomination last year and President Trump's controversial positions and statements are clouding that calculation, meaning Majority Leader Mitch McConnell might be forced to decide on the "nuclear option" to get Gorsuch on the court.  Read here for more .        President Donald Trump's Supreme Court Nominee, Judge Neil Gorsuch, thanks his friends, family, and heroes in his address at the confirmation hearing.       Judge Neil Gorsuch pitched his legal record as mainstream in the opening remarks of his confirmation hearing on Monday, telling the Senate Judiciary Committee that 97 percent of the more than 2,700 cases he'd heard were decided unanimously and that he was in the majority 99 percent of the time. "That's my record, and that's how we do things in the West," Gorsuch said.  As one of the most conservative nominees to the court , he faces significant Democratic opposition for being too far to the right and will need to convince his critics that he's both a mainstream conservative nominee and independent from the controversial president who nominated him. Gorsuch's confirmation hearing began the same day FBI Director James Comey confirmed to Congress that the FBI is investigating whether the Trump campaign colluded with a covert Russian operation to interfere with the election. Perhaps to soften the controversy that surrounds his nomination to a seat Republicans barred President Barack Obama from filling last year , Gorsuch introduced himself as a humble, Western family man whose values, fly fishing skills, and work ethic have deep roots. "As my daughters never tire of reminding me, putting on a robe does not make me any smarter," he said. Gorsuch became emotional twice during his remarks, his voice faltering as he recounted an uncle and "hero of mine" who passed recently,  and when he stopped just moments into his opening remarks to embrace wife Louise and thank her for her support.        Gorsuch noted his admiration for fellow Coloradan Byron White while namechecking former Denver Broncos quarterback John Elway, who reportedly sent a letter to the Judiciary Committee supporting Gorsuch's nomination.   White is the only other Supreme Court justice who hailed from the Centennial State. If confirmed, Gorusch would be only the sixth justice born in the Western part of the United States, according to the Pew Research Center.

Judge Neil Gorsuch pitched his legal record as mainstream in the opening remarks of his confirmation hearing on Monday, telling the Senate Judiciary Committee that 97 percent of the more than 2,700 cases he'd heard were decided unanimously and that he was in the majority 99 percent of the time.

"That's my record, and that's how we do things in the West," Gorsuch said.

As one of the most conservative nominees to the court, he faces significant Democratic opposition for being too far to the right and will need to convince his critics that he's both a mainstream conservative nominee and independent from the controversial president who nominated him.

Gorsuch's confirmation hearing began the same day FBI Director James Comey confirmed to Congress that the FBI is investigating whether the Trump campaign colluded with a covert Russian operation to interfere with the election.

Perhaps to soften the controversy that surrounds his nomination to a seat Republicans barred President Barack Obama from filling last year, Gorsuch introduced himself as a humble, Western family man whose values, fly fishing skills, and work ethic have deep roots.

"As my daughters never tire of reminding me, putting on a robe does not make me any smarter," he said.

Gorsuch became emotional twice during his remarks, his voice faltering as he recounted an uncle and "hero of mine" who passed recently, and when he stopped just moments into his opening remarks to embrace wife Louise and thank her for her support.