Wyclef Jean Was Mistaken For A Suspect And Handcuffed Near His Recording Studio In LA
Wyclef Jean Was Mistaken For A Suspect And Handcuffed Near His Recording Studio In LA
Recording artist Wyclef Jean was put in handcuffs by Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department officers early Tuesday morning near his recording studio. Authorities said he had been mistaken for a suspect involved in an armed robbery.  A video recorded as he was arrested shows the former Fugees member saying, “I’m in LA right now coming from the studio with T Baby, and y’all see the police have handcuffs on me. They just took off my Haitian bandana.” LAPD another case of mistaken identity. Black man with red bandana robbed a gas station as I was in the studio work… https://t.co/9CRj1Oe7Nx While he was in handcuffs, Jean can be heard telling officers that he planned to sue the Los Angeles Police Department for the way they were treating him.  View on Instagram  Hours after the incident, Jean tweeted that he had been “asked by the police to put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly handcuffed before being asked to identify myself.” I was asked by the police to Put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly hand cuffed before being asked to identify myself Jean added that he had not been told why he was being detained. He said his name and told the officers they had the wrong person. Nor was I told why I was being cuffed. In the process I said my name and told them they have wrong person. “They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal until other police showed up and pointed out they had the wrong person,” he added. They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal until other police showed up and pointed out they had wrong person. A spokesperson for the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department in West Hollywood, who handled the case, told BuzzFeed News that Jean and the vehicle matched the description of a suspect who had been involved in an armed robbery earlier that night. “All the way down to the detail of being in the front seat and wearing the red bandana,” the spokesperson said. The Haitian flag has the colors red, blue, and white. “While he was being detained, officers communicated with other deputies that were still contacting that victim,” the spokesperson said. After about 10 minutes, Jean was released. Shortly after, the perpetrator was found four blocks away from where officers put Jean in handcuffs. “I am sure no father wants his sons or daughters to see him in Handcuffs [sic] especially if he is innocent,” Jean said on Twitter. “As some one [sic] who has law enforcers in my family, I was appalled by this behavior of the LAPD.” BuzzFeed News has reached out to Jean’s representatives for comment.   People Have A Lot Of Feelings About The New Power Rangers...    Katy Perry Reveals She's Definitely Done More Than...

Recording artist Wyclef Jean was put in handcuffs by Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department officers early Tuesday morning near his recording studio. Authorities said he had been mistaken for a suspect involved in an armed robbery. Jordan Strauss / AP Photo ID: 10739899





A video recorded as he was arrested shows the former Fugees member saying, “I’m in LA right now coming from the studio with T Baby, and y’all see the police have handcuffs on me. They just took off my Haitian bandana.” LAPD another case of mistaken identity. Black man with red bandana robbed a gas station as I was in the studio work… https://t.co/9CRj1Oe7Nx — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) ID: 10739918

While he was in handcuffs, Jean can be heard telling officers that he planned to sue the Los Angeles Police Department for the way they were treating him. Loading View on Instagram Instagram: @wyclefjean ID: 10739933

Hours after the incident, Jean tweeted that he had been “asked by the police to put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly handcuffed before being asked to identify myself.” I was asked by the police to Put my hands up. Then I was told do not move. I was instantly hand cuffed before being asked to identify myself — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) ID: 10739937

Jean added that he had not been told why he was being detained. He said his name and told the officers they had the wrong person. Nor was I told why I was being cuffed. In the process I said my name and told them they have wrong person. — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) ID: 10739940

“They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal until other police showed up and pointed out they had the wrong person,” he added. They proceeded to ignore me and I was treated like a criminal until other police showed up and pointed out they had wrong person. — Wyclef Jean (@wyclef) ID: 10739949

A spokesperson for the Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department in West Hollywood, who handled the case, told BuzzFeed News that Jean and the vehicle matched the description of a suspect who had been involved in an armed robbery earlier that night.

“All the way down to the detail of being in the front seat and wearing the red bandana,” the spokesperson said.

The Haitian flag has the colors red, blue, and white.

“While he was being detained, officers communicated with other deputies that were still contacting that victim,” the spokesperson said.

After about 10 minutes, Jean was released. Shortly after, the perpetrator was found four blocks away from where officers put Jean in handcuffs.

“I am sure no father wants his sons or daughters to see him in Handcuffs [sic] especially if he is innocent,” Jean said on Twitter. “As some one [sic] who has law enforcers in my family, I was appalled by this behavior of the LAPD.”

BuzzFeed News has reached out to Jean’s representatives for comment.