Exclusive: Jenna Jameson Denies Role in Anti-Trump Porn Film: ‘Fake News’
Exclusive: Jenna Jameson Denies Role in Anti-Trump Porn Film: 'Fake News' - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Former adult film star Jenna Jameson told Breitbart News exclusively on Tuesday that she is not involved in a forthcoming pornographic film by xHamster.com that is aimed at parodying President Donald Trump and members of his Cabinet. “Completely false. I would call that fake news… or a sad ploy by a company in dire need of publicity for their crap film,” Jameson said. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER In a press release on Tuesday, xHamster announced that Jameson was under consideration for a role in the film, which has not yet been named. The lead actor, playing Trump, was announced as “an amateur performer known only John Brutal.” It also claimed: “Blair Williams has already signed on as Trump’s daughter, Ivanka. xHamster is still casting the other roles, but says it plans to offer Julia Ann the role of Kellyanne Conway, Nina Hartley as Betsy DeVos, Tommy Pistol as Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, Ron Jeremy as Steve Bannon, and Jenna Jameson the chance to play herself.” Jameson, however, vigorously denied any involvement. The former performer and entrepreneur has been a vocal supporter of Trump, and has also become a prominent supporter of Israel. According to the , Jameson recently converted to Orthodox Judaism and may be planning on relocating to Israel with her fiancé, Lior Bitton. In recent months, Jameson has been an active participant in political debates on Twitter, jousting with liberals and defending conservatives, as well as taking staunchly pro-life positions on abortion. She has also spoken out against antisemitism after receiving a number of abusive messages via social media. How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Former adult film star Jenna Jameson told Breitbart News exclusively on Tuesday that she is not involved in a forthcoming pornographic film by xHamster.com that is aimed at parodying President Donald Trump and members of his Cabinet.

“Completely false. I would call that fake news… or a sad ploy by a company in dire need of publicity for their crap film,” Jameson said.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

In a press release on Tuesday, xHamster announced that Jameson was under consideration for a role in the film, which has not yet been named. The lead actor, playing Trump, was announced as “an amateur performer known only John Brutal.”

It also claimed: “Blair Williams has already signed on as Trump’s daughter, Ivanka. xHamster is still casting the other roles, but says it plans to offer Julia Ann the role of Kellyanne Conway, Nina Hartley as Betsy DeVos, Tommy Pistol as Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto, Ron Jeremy as Steve Bannon, and Jenna Jameson the chance to play herself.”

Jameson, however, vigorously denied any involvement.

The former performer and entrepreneur has been a vocal supporter of Trump, and has also become a prominent supporter of Israel. According to the Jerusalem Post, Jameson recently converted to Orthodox Judaism and may be planning on relocating to Israel with her fiancé, Lior Bitton.

In recent months, Jameson has been an active participant in political debates on Twitter, jousting with liberals and defending conservatives, as well as taking staunchly pro-life positions on abortion.

She has also spoken out against antisemitism after receiving a number of abusive messages via social media.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named one of the “most influential” people in news media in 2016. His new book, How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.