Chuck Berry Sales Explode By More Than 10,000% Following His Death
Chuck Berry Sales Explode By More Than 10,000% Following His Death
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Hugh McIntyre       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo by Francois Durand/Getty Images)  Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Legendary rock and roll pioneer Chuck Berry died this past weekend, and millions around the world reacted by snapping up his music, and they did so in incredible numbers.

According to music industry data analytics firm BuzzAngle, the rocker sold more than 2,050 albums on the day he died, and that figure climbed to just over 3,800 the following day. To put that figure into perspective, his daily average before his death was just 39 albums. Of course, he moved many more copies at the height of his career, but Berry hadn't released any new full-lengths in decades. Sales for his entire back catalog jumped almost 9,600%, with most sales for his popular greatest hits compilation, The Definitive Collection.

When it comes to single sales, the numbers are, almost unbelievably, even more impressive. The day after news of his death spread across the internet, Berry’s single sales rose by 11,684%, upping his daily count to 16,600 units sold. About one-quarter of those were sales of his song “Johnny B. Goode,” which is not only one of his staples but also one of the greatest rock tunes of all time.

These numbers are only representative of the first few days of sales following his death, and once a full week or so has gone by, the full turnout by his fans will be understood much better. Berry will surely reappear on at least a handful of Billboard charts when they are refreshed in a few days, especially when streaming is also taken into account. Undoubtedly, his plays on platforms like Spotify and Apple Music have absolutely also risen to new, previously unknown heights.