Watch Rihanna Struggle to Watch Her Sex Scene in 'Bates Motel'
Watch Rihanna Struggle to Watch Her Sex Scene in 'Bates Motel'
Last month, star Austin Nichols tweeted out a trailer for the show's fifth and final season. The trailer contained a steamy love scene between his character Sam Loomis and Marion Crane, familiar to fans as the woman killed in the infamous shower scene. Normally, this wouldn't be that big of a deal. However, Marion Crane, in this imagining, is played by none other than Rihanna . Waiting to rehearse with my buddy in Marion Crane's apartment. directed tonight. He was superb. pic.twitter.com/ As you might imagine, the trailer got a ton of media attention ( guilty !), and a nation has been waiting with baited breath for the scene in question to air. And on Monday night, it finally hit the small screen. You can check it out for yourself here: How do you like Rihanna on #BatesMotel ? 👏🔥 pic.twitter.com/ghcppL16lt The scene wasn't quite as steamy as we all thought it might be. But don't tell that to Rihanna. She jumped on Instagram Live on Monday night to communicate with her fans as the show aired. And when the sex scene came on, she couldn't bear to watch. She literally cringed while it was on her TV screen and looked like she couldn't wait for it to be over. You can check out her priceless reaction in the video above. If you missed Rihanna's appearance, you can go here to check out the entire episode.

Last month, Bates Motel star Austin Nichols tweeted out a trailer for the show's fifth and final season. The trailer contained a steamy love scene between his character Sam Loomis and Marion Crane, familiar to Psycho fans as the woman killed in the infamous shower scene. Normally, this wouldn't be that big of a deal. However, Marion Crane, in this imagining, is played by none other than Rihanna.

Waiting to rehearse with my buddy @rihanna in Marion Crane's apartment. @CarbonellNestor directed tonight. He was superb. pic.twitter.com/IlxsKQwu4u — AUSTIN NICHOLS ( @AustinNichols ) March 21, 2017

As you might imagine, the trailer got a ton of media attention (guilty!), and a nation has been waiting with baited breath for the scene in question to air. And on Monday night, it finally hit the small screen. You can check it out for yourself here:

The scene wasn't quite as steamy as we all thought it might be. But don't tell that to Rihanna. She jumped on Instagram Live on Monday night to communicate with her fans as the show aired. And when the sex scene came on, she couldn't bear to watch. She literally cringed while it was on her TV screen and looked like she couldn't wait for it to be over. You can check out her priceless reaction in the video above.

If you missed Rihanna's Bates Motel appearance, you can go here to check out the entire episode.