Anger as MPs bow to peers' pressure and end 500-year old tradition of printing new laws on vellum
Anger as MPs bow to peers' pressure and end 500-year old tradition of printing new laws on vellum
he centuries-old tradition of printing new laws on vellum is to be abandoned after MPs bowed to pressure from peers and agreed to use paper. The House of Lords – which is in charge of printing copies of laws - has been pushing to use archival paper, rather than calf skin, to save £80,000 a year. Last year, MPs voted in the House of Commons to reject the suggestion, after Cabinet Office minister Matt Hancock offered to step in to pay the extra cost. The motion – which was non-binding - notified peers that the Commons “withheld its consent to the use of archival paper rather than vellum for the printing of record copies of public Acts of Parliament”. However MPs have now backed down and agreed a compromise that the covers of Bills should be on vellum, but the inside pages on paper. Laws have been printed on vellum parchment since the early 16th century. he decision to compromise was made at a private meeting of MPs on the House of Commons’ administration committee, which voted by three to two to back the Lords. James Gray, a Conservative member of the committee who backed the keeping laws printed on vellum, resigned in protest. Mr Gray told : “It is the removal of another ancient tradition. The money is peanuts, neither here nor there, it is just slicing away at traditions.” One Westminster source said that MPs had been forced into the move after it emerged that Parliament would have to buy its own vellum printer to continue with the tradition. House of Lords spokesman said that “archival paper is of extremely high quality and durability”. e added: “The Parliamentary Archives has records on paper dating from early 16th century, so it is wrong to suggest it is not suitable and robust material.” A House of Commons spokesman added: “Last year the House of Lords announced their intention to replace vellum with high quality but markedly cheaper archival paper. “The House of Commons voted to withhold its consent: but on this occasion the House of Lords made it clear that they were not prepared to print record copies on vellum. “The House of Commons Commission has agreed to provide and pay for  vellum front and back sheets for record copies, out of respect for tradition, and hopes to be able to use British vellum from Cowley’s.”

The centuries-old tradition of printing new laws on vellum is to be abandoned after MPs bowed to pressure from peers and agreed to use paper.

The House of Lords – which is in charge of printing copies of laws - has been pushing to use archival paper, rather than calf skin, to save £80,000 a year.

Last year, MPs voted in the House of Commons to reject the suggestion, after Cabinet Office minister Matt Hancock offered to step in to pay the extra cost.

The motion – which was non-binding - notified peers that the Commons “withheld its consent to the use of archival paper rather than vellum for the printing of record copies of public Acts of Parliament”.

However MPs have now backed down and agreed a compromise that the covers of Bills should be on vellum, but the inside pages on paper.

Laws have been printed on vellum parchment since the early 16th century.