UK bans laptops and big smartphones on airlines from 6 countries
UK bans laptops and big smartphones on airlines from 6 countries
The UK is following the U.S. lead on the electronics ban on flights. The government has announced a cabin luggage ban on most electronics from six Middle Eastern and African countries, saying the measure was "necessary, effective and proportionate". SEE ALSO: U.S. bans laptops and iPads on airlines from multiple countries The instructions, which cover phones, laptops or tablets larger than 16 cm in length, 9.3 cm width and 1.5 cm depth, will affect six UK carriers, including British Airways and EasyJet, and eight overseas airlines, including Egyptair and Saudia. "Most smartphones fall within these limits and will continue to be allowed on board. However, devices larger than these dimensions may not be carried in the cabin," the Department for Transport said. The additional security measures affect direct flights to the UK from Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, Tunisia and Saudi Arabia. A UK government spokesperson said: "Decisions to make changes to our aviation security regime are never taken lightly." "We will not hesitate to act in order to maintain the safety of the travelling public and we will work closely with our international partners to minimise any disruption these new measures may cause." The U.S. ban applies to 10 airports in eight Muslim-majority countries. UK carriers affected by the ban: British Airways EasyJet Jet2.com Monarch Thomas Cook Thomson Overseas carriers affected by the ban: Turkish Airlines Pegasus Airways Atlas-Global Airlines Middle East Airlines Egyptair Royal Jordanian, Tunis Air Saudia WATCH: Airbus’ new flying car concept looks like it's straight out of ‘The Jetsons'

The UK is following the U.S. lead on the electronics ban on flights.

The government has announced a cabin luggage ban on most electronics from six Middle Eastern and African countries, saying the measure was "necessary, effective and proportionate".

The instructions, which cover phones, laptops or tablets larger than 16 cm in length, 9.3 cm width and 1.5 cm depth, will affect six UK carriers, including British Airways and EasyJet, and eight overseas airlines, including Egyptair and Saudia.

"Most smartphones fall within these limits and will continue to be allowed on board. However, devices larger than these dimensions may not be carried in the cabin," the Department for Transport said.

The additional security measures affect direct flights to the UK from Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, Tunisia and Saudi Arabia.

A UK government spokesperson said: "Decisions to make changes to our aviation security regime are never taken lightly."

"We will not hesitate to act in order to maintain the safety of the travelling public and we will work closely with our international partners to minimise any disruption these new measures may cause."

The U.S. ban applies to 10 airports in eight Muslim-majority countries.

UK carriers affected by the ban:

British Airways

EasyJet

Jet2.com

Monarch

Thomas Cook

Thomson

Overseas carriers affected by the ban: