Rich New Yorkers ask state to raise their taxes
Rich New Yorkers ask state to raise their taxes
Shares                Some of the wealthiest New Yorkers are asking the state to raise their taxes. Eighty people including George Soros , Steven Rockefeller and Abigail Disney wrote to lawmakers and Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo saying they and other top earners should pay more to support schools, roads, bridges and programs to help poor and homeless residents of the state. "Now is the time to invest in the long-term economic viability of New York," the letter reads. "We need to invest in pathways out of poverty and up the economic ladder for all of our fellow citizens, including strong public education from pre-K to college. And, we need to invest in the fragile bridges, tunnels, waterlines, public buildings, and roads that we all depend on." The letter, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press, endorses a plan that would create new, higher income tax brackets for top earners to raise a projected $2 billion. New York already has some of the highest tax rates in the country. Raising taxes even higher on the wealthiest earners could force more to leave the state, or prevent others from moving here, according to Kathryn Wylde, president and CEO of the Partnership for New York City. Wylde noted that many of the people signing the letter made much or most of their money from inheritances or interest on investments — not from taxable income from a job. "It's people like you or me that are paying a large hunk of their earned income in taxes," she said. "Most of us are paying well north of 40 percent in New York City." Their proposal faces significant political obstacles in the state Legislature. While the Democratic majority in the Assembly has its own plan to increase taxes on millionaires, the Republican-led Senate opposes the idea. Lawmakers are now negotiating the details of the state budget and hope to have a deal in place by April 1. Many of those signing the letter are millionaires and all make more than $650,000, making them members of the state's top 1 percent when it comes to income. The proposal is being pushed by the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal-leaning economic think tank. A similar letter last year was largely ignored by lawmakers. Shares                  Rich New Yorkers ask state to raise their taxes   How first daughter Ivanka Trump's role at the White House has grown   SCOTUS nominee says he's not Trump's surrogate   Dylann Roof's friend gets over 2 years for lying to FBI   Tom Brady's Super Bowl jersey resurfaces in new photo   Electronics restricted on flights from certain Middle Eastern airports   'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory' preparing for Broadway debut   Teen EMT delivers her 1st baby, born 2 weeks early, in couple's bedroom   Dig deeper before mocking 'crazy' pet parents   Girl battling cancer granted wish of seeing 'A Dog's Purpose,' gets visit from dog in film   Brotherly love: Two brothers who live 1,000 miles apart reunite in heartwarming viral video   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Accelerated executions: Arkansas plans 8 over 10-day period   EU to hold Brexit summit for 27 members on April 29   Stolen Van Gogh paintings return to Amsterdam after 14 years   New security rule affects certain flights to the US   Former FBI agent: Few leads in missing student, teacher case troubling   Dad of missing teen who was allegedly abducted by teacher: 'Please come home to us'   Inside Ellen DeGeneres' home, selling for $45M   Woman shares how and why she planned her wedding in 5 days   Prosecutor: Not reporting Jerry Sandusky let evil 'run wild'   Czechs saw off rhino horns as precaution after France attack   Simone Biles takes early lead on 'Dancing With the Stars'   Chuck Berry's family will release new music 'in the coming days'   Inside the life of 'All My Children' creator

Some of the wealthiest New Yorkers are asking the state to raise their taxes.

Eighty people including George Soros, Steven Rockefeller and Abigail Disney wrote to lawmakers and Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo saying they and other top earners should pay more to support schools, roads, bridges and programs to help poor and homeless residents of the state.

"Now is the time to invest in the long-term economic viability of New York," the letter reads. "We need to invest in pathways out of poverty and up the economic ladder for all of our fellow citizens, including strong public education from pre-K to college. And, we need to invest in the fragile bridges, tunnels, waterlines, public buildings, and roads that we all depend on."

The letter, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press, endorses a plan that would create new, higher income tax brackets for top earners to raise a projected $2 billion.

New York already has some of the highest tax rates in the country. Raising taxes even higher on the wealthiest earners could force more to leave the state, or prevent others from moving here, according to Kathryn Wylde, president and CEO of the Partnership for New York City.

Wylde noted that many of the people signing the letter made much or most of their money from inheritances or interest on investments — not from taxable income from a job.

"It's people like you or me that are paying a large hunk of their earned income in taxes," she said. "Most of us are paying well north of 40 percent in New York City."

Their proposal faces significant political obstacles in the state Legislature. While the Democratic majority in the Assembly has its own plan to increase taxes on millionaires, the Republican-led Senate opposes the idea. Lawmakers are now negotiating the details of the state budget and hope to have a deal in place by April 1.

Many of those signing the letter are millionaires and all make more than $650,000, making them members of the state's top 1 percent when it comes to income.

The proposal is being pushed by the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal-leaning economic think tank.

A similar letter last year was largely ignored by lawmakers.