Gucci posted a load of weird memes and the internet is cringing hard
Gucci posted a load of weird memes and the internet is cringing hard
A Gucci campaign for watches is probably the last place you'd expect to see the Arthur meme, or a post featuring the words "me vs the guy she says I shouldn’t worry about." But, these beloved memes are the focus of a quirky ad campaign that's currently dividing the internet. SEE ALSO: Vogue got trolled over Kendall and Gigi 3 times in 24 hours, didn't learn its lesson Gucci enlisted the help of "international meme creators" to create a series of Instagram memes for its latest advertising campaign — a collaborative project called #TFWGucci — for timepieces. But, while some people are loving the fashion house's foray into internet humour, many of its Insta followers have been left scratching their heads. Meme creators were approached by the fashion house to create memes featuring timepieces from different Gucci lines, including the Le Marché des Merveilles collection of watches. And, according to a statement from the brand, many of the memes are the "result of a two-way or three-way collaboration." The campaign intends to demonstrate Gucci creative director Alessandro Michele's "desire to engage with a wider creative community than that which traditionally locates around the world of fashion." One of Gucci's memes — created by meme maker @champagneemojis — was inspired by the beloved meme. #TFWGucci Derek Lucas, AKA @champagneemojis was inspired by the super-recent Arthur meme — the cartoon aardvark represents utter frustration with a clenched fist. New York-based photographer Benjamin Langford (@blangblang92) reinterpreted the meme through his own lens. Langford shoots flowers with a languorous, detached gaze, printing them larger-than-life. They represent the elusive illusion of authentic experience, a tantalizing beauty never quite reachable. For #TFWGucci, a #LeMarchédesMerveilles watch on his wrist and a bunch of flowers in his fist, Arthur is still frustrated. - Text by @kchayka. Discover more through link in bio. A post shared by Gucci (@gucci) on Commenters were pretty divided over the use of the Arthur meme in the ad campaign. "Yo gucci being extra," wrote one commenter on the Arthur meme post. "Gucci should delete their account," wrote one unamused Instagrammer. "Am I having a stroke or is this the official Gucci Instagram??" wrote another confused commenter. But, some happened to really like the meme. "Gucci is killin the game w/ their memes rn," wrote one Instagrammer. Another Gucci meme — created by American painter @austinleee — was also the subject of derision. #TFWGucci Young American painter @austinleee is a double-citizen of both the digital and analogue worlds. His squishy, day-glo designs start their lives as iPad sketches, which then travel through Photoshop, printers, and acrylic to eventually exit as tangible canvases. Reality is re-imported back into bytes for him to further tweak his uncanny neon figures and sly sense of humor, as in his latest works with augmented-reality and 3D printed sculpture. For #TFWGucci, Lee’s candy-colored yuppie character gets a side-eye from queen of deadpan-glam @GothShakira. – Text by @newterritories. Discover more through link in bio. A post shared by Gucci (@gucci) on "What is this even???" wrote one commenter. "It's like a bad meme account idk what to do w any of this," wrote another. A meme by art student @ddavidonaldd and @kchayka was met with countless requests for the brand to "please stop". Meanwhile, others found the meme pretty hilarious. "OMFG LOVING THE MEMES!!!" wrote one commenter. #TFWGucci A student at the iconic Slade School of Fine Art in London, David Henry Donald @ddavidonaldd is a sculptor whose work takes the form of small assemblages, like a three-dimensional collage. His work reflects ideas of place and identity, taking on the view of the awed tourist as well as the knowledgeable local. For #TFWGucci, the #LeMarchédesMerveilles watch is a familiar symbol tweaked by the trompe l’oeil turning page. - Text by @kchayka. Read more through link in bio. A post shared by Gucci (@gucci) on "Okayyyy we get it oh my god," wrote one Instagrammer. "Hopefully, this will be the last meme you post," implored another. One of the memes proved to be a real hit. @cabbagecatmemes created a "guy she says I shouldn’t worry about" style meme for Gucci, to the delight of Gucci's followers. #TFWGucci John Trulli, AKA @cabbagecatmemes, takes on the well known-structure of the “guy she says I shouldn’t worry about” meme with the addition of a #Gucci #LeMarchédesMerveilles timepiece. It’s a classic two-panel joke, with a mundane watch set against Gucci’s version. Trulli’s meme style is quirky and irreverent, tackling pop culture and everyday experiences in equal measure. All he has to do is add a line of text to the image and it becomes a viral vehicle. — @kchayka. Discover more through link in bio. A post shared by Gucci (@gucci) on "Hahah gucci is lit," declared one commenter.  "Gucci making memes is giving me life," wrote another. "OMGGGG YASSSSSS," said one Instagrammer of the meme. A+ for effort, Gucci. WATCH: A designer creates a sustainable fashion line that grows with your kids

A Gucci campaign for watches is probably the last place you'd expect to see the Arthur meme, or a post featuring the words "me vs the guy she says I shouldn’t worry about." But, these beloved memes are the focus of a quirky ad campaign that's currently dividing the internet.

Gucci enlisted the help of "international meme creators" to create a series of Instagram memes for its latest advertising campaign — a collaborative project called #TFWGucci — for timepieces. But, while some people are loving the fashion house's foray into internet humour, many of its Insta followers have been left scratching their heads.

Meme creators were approached by the fashion house to create memes featuring timepieces from different Gucci lines, including the Le Marché des Merveilles collection of watches. And, according to a statement from the brand, many of the memes are the "result of a two-way or three-way collaboration."

The campaign intends to demonstrate Gucci creative director Alessandro Michele's "desire to engage with a wider creative community than that which traditionally locates around the world of fashion."

One of Gucci's memes — created by meme maker @champagneemojis — was inspired by the beloved Arthur meme.

Commenters were pretty divided over the use of the Arthur meme in the ad campaign.

"Yo gucci being extra," wrote one commenter on the Arthur meme post. "Gucci should delete their account," wrote one unamused Instagrammer. "Am I having a stroke or is this the official Gucci Instagram??" wrote another confused commenter. But, some happened to really like the meme. "Gucci is killin the game w/ their memes rn," wrote one Instagrammer.

Another Gucci meme — created by American painter @austinleee — was also the subject of derision.

"What is this even???" wrote one commenter. "It's like a bad meme account idk what to do w any of this," wrote another.

A meme by art student @ddavidonaldd and @kchayka was met with countless requests for the brand to "please stop". Meanwhile, others found the meme pretty hilarious. "OMFG LOVING THE MEMES!!!" wrote one commenter.

"Okayyyy we get it oh my god," wrote one Instagrammer. "Hopefully, this will be the last meme you post," implored another.



One of the memes proved to be a real hit. @cabbagecatmemes created a "guy she says I shouldn’t worry about" style meme for Gucci, to the delight of Gucci's followers.

"Hahah gucci is lit," declared one commenter. "Gucci making memes is giving me life," wrote another. "OMGGGG YASSSSSS," said one Instagrammer of the meme.

A+ for effort, Gucci.