Sept. 11 families sue Saudi Arabia over 9/11 attacks
Sept. 11 families sue Saudi Arabia over 9/11 attacks
Shares                Hundreds of relatives of those killed on Sept. 11 have sued Saudi Arabia , joining many others who have tried to hold the kingdom responsible for the attacks. Like other recent actions, the lawsuit filed Monday capitalizes on last year's decision by Congress to let victims sue Saudi Arabia. It seeks unspecified damages. Earlier attempts to hold Saudi Arabia responsible over the past 15 years have failed. Fifteen of the 19 attackers who hijacked planes to carry out the attacks in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania were Saudis. The 9/11 Commission report found "no evidence that the Saudi government as an institution or senior Saudi officials individually funded" the attacks. But the commission also said there's a "likelihood" that Saudi-government-sponsored charities did. Lawyers for Saudi Arabia did not immediately comment. Shares                  Sept. 11 families sue Saudi Arabia over 9/11 attacks   If you really want to know what is happening on the US-Mexico border, ask these residents   SCOTUS nominee say he's not Trump's surrogate   Electronics restricted on flights from certain Middle Eastern airports   Tom Brady's Super Bowl jersey resurfaces in new photo   Teen EMT delivers her 1st baby, born 2 weeks early, in couple's bedroom   Dig deeper before mocking 'crazy' pet parents   Girl battling cancer granted wish of seeing 'A Dog's Purpose,' gets visit from dog in film   Brotherly love: Two brothers who live 1,000 miles apart reunite in heartwarming viral video   Teen boy finds 7.44-carat 'Superman's Diamond' at an Arkansas state park   Hero cat named Grace saved couple from carbon monoxide poisoning   Dazzling bioluminescent event lights up the sea   EU to hold Brexit summit for 27 members on April 29   Stolen Van Gogh paintings return to Amsterdam after 14 years   Massive 8-alarm fire destroys multiple homes in Kansas   A look at white nationalism in America   Dad of missing teen who was allegedly abducted by teacher: 'Please come home to us'   Weeks before student, teacher disappeared, another teen reported seeing them kiss   Woman shares how and why she planned her wedding in 5 days   Former aides set to testify against Penn State ex-president   Czechs saw off rhino horns as precaution after France attack   Simone Biles takes early lead on 'Dancing With the Stars'   Chuck Berry's family will release new music 'in the coming days'   Inside the life of 'All My Children' creator

Hundreds of relatives of those killed on Sept. 11 have sued Saudi Arabia, joining many others who have tried to hold the kingdom responsible for the attacks.

Like other recent actions, the lawsuit filed Monday capitalizes on last year's decision by Congress to let victims sue Saudi Arabia. It seeks unspecified damages.

Earlier attempts to hold Saudi Arabia responsible over the past 15 years have failed. Fifteen of the 19 attackers who hijacked planes to carry out the attacks in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania were Saudis.

The 9/11 Commission report found "no evidence that the Saudi government as an institution or senior Saudi officials individually funded" the attacks. But the commission also said there's a "likelihood" that Saudi-government-sponsored charities did.

Lawyers for Saudi Arabia did not immediately comment.