Supreme Court Pulls Up Centre On Demonetisation, Asks Why Old Notes Are Not Being Accepted From Citizens Till March 31
SC Pulls Up Centre On Demonetisation, Asks Why Old Notes Are Not Being Accepted Till March 31
Supreme Court Pulls Up Centre On Demonetisation, Asks Why Old Notes Are Not Being Accepted From Citizens Till March 31 The Supreme Court has questioned the central government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on why the earlier decision on allowing general public to deposit scraped currency notes at RBI branches till March 31 was changed. The bench observed that when PM promised on November 8 speech that those with genuine difficulty to deposit demonetised notes by December 31 will get chance till Mar 31 then why there is change in their stance. “You may have a discretion, but it cannot be an arbitrary exercise. From your submission it seems that you are the final and we are not willing to accept it.” The apex court also asked whether government is considering another chance to deposit demonetised currency under Ordinance for people having genuine difficulty. Advocate General Mukul Rohatgi representing the government said the promise to extend grace period after Dec 30 for deposit of old notes was overridden by ordinance. Earlier this month, the court had issued notice to Centre and RBI seeking their response on a PIL as to why demonetised notes were not accepted till March 31 as was promised. On November 8th when the decision was announced, the government had said that public will be able to deposit the demonetised notes at banks till December 31 and at RBI till March 31. But later the January-march window was only allowed to NRI and people who were abroad at the time. The policy change had resulted in confusion, with many, unaware of the decision still visiting the the RBI hoping to exchange their old notes, only to be turned away.

The Supreme Court has questioned the central government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on why the earlier decision on allowing general public to deposit scraped currency notes at RBI branches till March 31 was changed.

BCCL/ File

The bench observed that when PM promised on November 8 speech that those with genuine difficulty to deposit demonetised notes by December 31 will get chance till Mar 31 then why there is change in their stance.

“You may have a discretion, but it cannot be an arbitrary exercise. From your submission it seems that you are the final and we are not willing to accept it.”

The apex court also asked whether government is considering another chance to deposit demonetised currency under Ordinance for people having genuine difficulty.

BCCL

Advocate General Mukul Rohatgi representing the government said the promise to extend grace period after Dec 30 for deposit of old notes was overridden by ordinance.

Earlier this month, the court had issued notice to Centre and RBI seeking their response on a PIL as to why demonetised notes were not accepted till March 31 as was promised.

BCCL

On November 8th when the decision was announced, the government had said that public will be able to deposit the demonetised notes at banks till December 31 and at RBI till March 31. But later the January-march window was only allowed to NRI and people who were abroad at the time.

The policy change had resulted in confusion, with many, unaware of the decision still visiting the the RBI hoping to exchange their old notes, only to be turned away.