Who divorced, who married and who took a gay lover? Love Actually: what happened next, according to fan fiction
Who divorced, who married and who took a gay lover? Love Actually: what happened next, according to fan fiction
he sequel we never thought was coming is, in fact, imminent. The intertwining threads of Love Actually will, some hope, be wrapped up with a 10-minute-long special for Comic Relief . However, some rom-com fans haven't had to wait 13 years – they've been creating the next chapter for Richard Curtis's memorable characters ever since the film came out. Fanfic authors have found considerable inspiration in the loves, and losses, of Love Actually, as well as trying to answer the question of what happened next. Having delved through the Love Actually-inspired fanfic online, here's what some people think may be lying in store for Curtis's characters: Billy Mack and Joe, his manager (Bill Nighy and Gregor Fisher) Reportedly “finally got engaged”, and it made the front pages of the paper. Juliet, Peter and Mark (Keira Knightley, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Andrew Lincoln) eter, aware of his friend’s infatuation with his wife, confronts Juliet, who is unfazed by Mark’s affections (not to mention his duplicity). Alternatively, Mark’s affection for Juliet is merely an elaborate front for his real feelings: that he is in love with Peter, and has been since he was 15. When he confesses this, Juliet and Mark agree to “try” to accommodate him in their relationship, and Mark “finally kissed his best friend back. He felt slim arms wrap around him from behind, and Mark desperately hoped that this wasn't another dream.” Another story is convinced of an affair between the two men, albeit one that finished while he was at university. ark is variously coupled off – to Judy, the nude actress, and to Mia, the secretary who tries to woo Harry away from his wife . Fast-forward a year, however, and Peter has divorced Juliet: “Juliet's smile was sad, and Mark could tell she was on the verge of tears. Her voice trembled as she explained, ‘Peter asked for a divorce. Apparently, he's fallen in love with someone else.’” Two years later, Juliet and Mark are set up by Jamie and Aurelia, and, after another year of working on their friendship, they kiss in Trafalgar Square. Jamie and Aurélia (Colin Firth and Lucia Moniz) verybody seems convinced that the film's most boring couple have surprisingly steamy sex before settling down in London to befriend the rest of the characters. Harry, Karen, and Mia (Alan Rickman, Emma Thompson, Heike Makatsch) lthough there is one narrative that says Mia, now pregnant with a baby of unknown fatherhood, and Karen, had become “best friends”, most believe that The Other Woman is out of the picture. In one account , she’s in the US, as his company partnered with a firm in the States, and he sent Mia over there to liaise between the two companies. Or just somewhere else entirely. One claims she has been fired , while another seems to think she has “been replaced by a sweet girl named Judy, or, "Just Judy" as she says, who is everything one would wish for in a publisher's administrative assistant – personable, intuitive, organised and able to read Harry's terrible handwriting. She's recently married, and I look forward to meeting her husband at the next publishing house party.” Which suggests that Judy and Martin Freeman’s character John married. he general consensus is that Harry never really wanted to damage what he had with Karen, and, after his deceit, works hard to repair their marriage: “He started with little things, like making sure he was always home for dinner. Instead of retreating to his study, he made it a point to help her clean the kitchen afterwards. They took turns helping the children with their school work and getting them ready for bed. When he knew she’d be having a rough day, he’d bring her home a single long-stemmed rose, just to see her smile.” Eventually, with time, they patch things up. David and Natalie (Hugh Grant, Martine McCutcheon) veryone’s still fatshaming Natalie, including her boyfriend : “‘God, you weigh a lot,’ gasped David, then kissed her thoroughly.” Despite this, he proposes to her during a large and adorably catastrophic family dinner and she says yes. Their wedding saw dignitaries and royalty arrive at All Saints Church in Wandsworth, and the resulting marriage made the Prime Minister “unbeatable” in the following General Election. In fact, the entire country benefits from their relationship : “It appears to be doing wonders for the economy, between the tourism and the souvenirs, though I could wish the popular portraits on teacups and so on were a bit more flattering.” According to at least one other story, parenthood is swiftly on the horizon : “Four months into a second term and two hours into an incredibly frustrating cabinet meeting, Natalie sends him a text. Do you think it’s very hard to babyproof No. 10? xxx” Daniel, Sam, Joanna and Carol (Liam Neeson, Thomas Brodie Sangster, Olivia Olsen, Michelle Pfeiffer) ll playing happy families, as Joanna returns to school in England and Carol and Daniel set up a tentative romance. Eight years on, Joanna and Sam are still together and have even formed a band. Sarah, Karl and Michael (Laura Linney, Rodrigo Santoro, Michael Fitzgerald) n the cosy, happy world of Love Actually, there is little room for mental illness. Or so one fanfic story declared, dispatching with Michael, who peacefully died in his sleep. Karl and Sarah weren’t to be, however, instead, one unrequited lover found another in Mark, who managed to suppress his feelings for Juliet sufficiently to fall for Sarah: Sarah has started to see Mark something, the gallery director who runs the place where we had our holiday party last year. I think she said she'd actually met him for the first time at a wedding where he was a photographer. When I spoke with her yesterday she said they were going to be getting together at a pub with Mark's best friend and his wife. I was at the office dropping something off for Harry, and I noticed Karl (the other editor) watching her with a bleak expression on his face that he hid immediately when he realized anyone was noticing. I can't help thinking that he should have made his move back when she didn't have eyes for anyone but him. John and Judy (Martin Freeman and Joanna Page) ony, who had previously worked with John and Judy on the set on which they met , spots them out and about several years later . They were still working in the industry: “Judy turned completely and they began to walk towards him, catching Tony with another shock. "When did that happen?" he asked as they drew nearer, waving his hand at Judy's protruding belly. "About six months ago!" Judy declared cheerfully. "Wow! Congratulations!" Tony gave her a quick hug. "And to you!" Jack shook his hand. "Wow! So is that why you weren't up for the sequel?" It hadn't been important at the time, but seeing her reminded him of a conversation he had overheard with the director a few days ago about needing a new double for the second instalment of the Warwick series. udy giggled. "Yeah!" The official "sequel" will air as part of Comic Relief on Friday.

The sequel we never thought was coming is, in fact, imminent. The intertwining threads of Love Actually will, some hope, be wrapped up with a 10-minute-long special for Comic Relief.

However, some rom-com fans haven't had to wait 13 years – they've been creating the next chapter for Richard Curtis's memorable characters ever since the film came out. Fanfic authors have found considerable inspiration in the loves, and losses, of Love Actually, as well as trying to answer the question of what happened next.

Having delved through the Love Actually-inspired fanfic online, here's what some people think may be lying in store for Curtis's characters:

Billy Mack and Joe, his manager (Bill Nighy and Gregor Fisher)

Reportedly “finally got engaged”, and it made the front pages of the paper.

Juliet, Peter and Mark (Keira Knightley, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Andrew Lincoln)