Sunil Grover Hits Out At Kapil Sharma, Milind Soman Swims In The Dead Sea And More The Ent World
Sunil Grover Hits Out At Kapil Sharma, Milind Soman Swims In The Dead Sea And More The Ent Worl
Sunil Grover Hits Out At Kapil Sharma, Milind Soman Swims In The Dead Sea And More The Ent World 1. "Thanks For Making Me Realise It Was Your Show," Sunil Grover Hits Out At Kapil Sharma Sunil vented out his heart in a lengthy message on Twitter. Starting off his post with, 'From A Friend, With Love', Sunil wrote about how Kapil should not act like a god even if he's good in the field of comedy. 2. Is There Anything He Can't Do? After Completing The Jerusalem Marathon, Milind Soman Swam In The Dead Sea ! Milind Soman competed at the 7th annual Jerusalem marathon, which was an event that was organized on the 50th anniversary of the reunification of the Israeli city. 3. Alia Bhatt's Sister Shaheen Reminds Media Why Funerals Are Not 'Parties' In A Hard-Hitting Post! I love animals and I've had mammalian roommates ever since I managed to badger my mother into it. Smokey came to live with me when he was 6 months old (I was 10) and he left when he was 14. He was my best friend and I miss him everyday. Also, I maaaay have promised him I'd try to make him famous. (Picture courtesy @tanvim) A post shared by Shaheen Bhatt (@shaheenb) on Sep 30, 2015 at 12:26pm PDT   She pointed out how a funeral is not just another photo-opp venue but there are a lot of emotions behind it. Shaheen slammed media for being insensitive with pictures of teary-eyed Aishwarya during her father's funeral. Here's the entire text of her post. 4. Rowan Atkinson Is Playing Mr. Bean After Years But Chances Are You Won't Get To Watch The Film He is playing a cameo role as Mr. Bean in a Chinese movie and will be seen interacting with the fellow characters using his facial expressions and gestures. But there's a catch. If reports are to be believed, the movie might never release outside of China. 5. Rubbishing Rumours Of Dating Manveer Gurjar, Akansha Sharma Says She Would Date A Frog Instead “I don't know why I got linked up to him after I met him at a party, a few days ago. Yes, we all had a blast on that day- but I certainly haven't had a scene with Manveer. How can I date him?,” she told Spotboye.com, and added, “I would date a frog but not Manveer. I wouldn't date him even if he was the last man on earth.”

1. "Thanks For Making Me Realise It Was Your Show," Sunil Grover Hits Out At Kapil Sharma

indianexpress.com

Sunil vented out his heart in a lengthy message on Twitter. Starting off his post with, 'From A Friend, With Love', Sunil wrote about how Kapil should not act like a god even if he's good in the field of comedy.

2. Is There Anything He Can't Do? After Completing The Jerusalem Marathon, Milind Soman Swam In The Dead Sea!

FACEBOOK/MILIND SOMAN

Milind Soman competed at the 7th annual Jerusalem marathon, which was an event that was organized on the 50th anniversary of the reunification of the Israeli city.

3. Alia Bhatt's Sister Shaheen Reminds Media Why Funerals Are Not 'Parties' In A Hard-Hitting Post!

She pointed out how a funeral is not just another photo-opp venue but there are a lot of emotions behind it. Shaheen slammed media for being insensitive with pictures of teary-eyed Aishwarya during her father's funeral. Here's the entire text of her post.

4. Rowan Atkinson Is Playing Mr. Bean After Years But Chances Are You Won't Get To Watch The Film

NPR.ORG

He is playing a cameo role as Mr. Bean in a Chinese movie and will be seen interacting with the fellow characters using his facial expressions and gestures. But there's a catch. If reports are to be believed, the movie might never release outside of China.

5. Rubbishing Rumours Of Dating Manveer Gurjar, Akansha Sharma Says She Would Date A Frog Instead

indianexpress.com

“I don't know why I got linked up to him after I met him at a party, a few days ago. Yes, we all had a blast on that day- but I certainly haven't had a scene with Manveer. How can I date him?,” she told Spotboye.com, and added, “I would date a frog but not Manveer. I wouldn't date him even if he was the last man on earth.”