Red Sox Minor League Club Plans to Make Tim Tebow Focus of Strikeout Giveaway
Red Sox Minor League Club Plans to Make Tim Tebow Focus of Strikeout Giveaway
Welp, we know who our @BurgerKing #StrikeoutKing @ #FluorField will be 6/13-15.  Guaranteed Whoppers for everyone when @TimTebow K's 3x! https://t.co/L4J5OtTMVh Tim Tebow is not qualified to be a professional baseball player. At least his attempt to disguise himself as one may produce free Whoppers for minor league baseball fans in South Carolina. The New York Mets formally assigned the former NFL player to their Low-A affiliate, the Columbia Fireflies, to open the 2017 season. This caught the attention of the Greenville Drive, a South Atlantic League competitor and Boston Red Sox affiliate. When the Drive host the Fireflies for a three-game series from June 13 to 15, the Florida native will be their pick for "Strikeout King." If he strikes out three times, everyone in attendance will win a free Burger King Whopper. The team's social media account didn't back down from its claim of "Guaranteed Whoppers for everyone" when pressed by Tebow supporters: We're not judging...okay, maybe we are. Big difference in HS kids playing in Class A and 28-year-old wannabes https://t.co/NmUKODaPiA Not jealous.  We prefer developing future MLBers, not PR stunts https://t.co/kSllgN5Vmn We completely agree he's a great role model.  We're talking about baseball here https://t.co/LQzxZMY4kp   Columbia offered a confusing response that doesn't actually prove the former Heisman Trophy winner earned his spot on a minor league club based on baseball merit: .@GreenvilleDrive But you promised!!!!!! https://t.co/0168B1l8r5 No young pitchers will fear an unpolished 29-year-old who went 4-for-20 (all singles) during spring training . But don't buy a ticket assuming a free burger. He struck out five times in six exhibition starts, and never more than twice in a single game. [Twitter] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Tim Tebow is not qualified to be a professional baseball player. At least his attempt to disguise himself as one may produce free Whoppers for minor league baseball fans in South Carolina.

The New York Mets formally assigned the former NFL player to their Low-A affiliate, the Columbia Fireflies, to open the 2017 season. This caught the attention of the Greenville Drive, a South Atlantic League competitor and Boston Red Sox affiliate.

When the Drive host the Fireflies for a three-game series from June 13 to 15, the Florida native will be their pick for "Strikeout King." If he strikes out three times, everyone in attendance will win a free Burger King Whopper.

The team's social media account didn't back down from its claim of "Guaranteed Whoppers for everyone" when pressed by Tebow supporters:

Columbia offered a confusing response that doesn't actually prove the former Heisman Trophy winner earned his spot on a minor league club based on baseball merit:

No young pitchers will fear an unpolished 29-year-old who went 4-for-20 (all singles) during spring training. But don't buy a ticket assuming a free burger. He struck out five times in six exhibition starts, and never more than twice in a single game.

[Twitter]