6,000 migrants rescued in Mediterranean as traffic grows
6,000 migrants rescued in Mediterranean as traffic grows


More than 6,000 migrants have been rescued on the central Mediterranean route from Libya to Italy in the last few days as greater numbers take to the sea in warmer weather.

The International Organization for Migration (IOM) said on Tuesday around 500 migrants are believed to have drowned so far this year, compared to 159 in the same period last year.

A spokesman said the number of people arriving in Europe, mainly travelling from Libya to Italy, and the subsequent deaths is at an unprecedented level.

Migrants wait to be rescued from a sinking dingey off the Libyan coasal town of Zawiyah, east of the capital, on March 20, 2017, as they attempted to cross from the Mediterranean to Europe

Libyan fishermen rescue a man from a sinking dinghy off the Libyan coasal town of Zawiyah

Two Libyan fishermen lean over in their boat to drag a man out of the Mediterranean Sea

Dozens of migrants wait to be rescued from a sinking rubber dinghy off the Libyan coast

This typical scene of people attempting to cross the Mediterranean Sea on a dinghy is rising

IOM spokesman Joel Millman told a news briefing more than 20,000 people have arrived in Europe this year and that 22 new deaths have recently been reported by the Libyan coast guard.

'We have yet to complete March,' he said, 'And we are already racing at a pace of arrivals that has exceeded anything we've seen before in the Mediterranean.

'This is typical of spring, getting very busy.

'But it's not typical to have the numbers be so high this early and the corresponding deaths that go with it.'

The UN's migration monitor says more than three times more people have died or gone missing while trying to cross the central Mediterranean between Libya and Italy this year compared to the same period of 2016.

The IOM says at least 481 migrants or refugees have died or gone missing up until March 19 on that route, up from 159 in the same period last year.

Mr Millman said Tuesday that the weekend rescue of over 3,300 migrants was set to bring the total of arrivals in Italy to over 20,000 this year.

Nearly 18,800 crossed in the first quarter last year.

Crossings generally increase as the weather warms in spring, and the IOM said it is unusual to see such high crossing and death numbers so early in the year.

This rescue on the weekend of more than 3,300 migrants was set to bring the total of arrivals in Italy to over 20,000 this year.

A baby is carried among the swathe of people attempting to cross the Mediterranean to Italy

Migrants, who took to the sea amid the spring sunshine, point at the camera after being rescued

Meanwhile, the UN children's agency says many child asylum seekers in Germany still have to spend long periods in unsafe and overcrowded shelters, and some have only limited access to education and don't receive adequate health care.

A study by UNICEF on the situation of 350,000 children and teenagers who have come to Germany as asylum seekers since 2015 says they often spend months or years in shelters where they sometimes witness or are exposed to violence and abuse.

The report released Tuesday said only a third of all children in asylum shelters have access to education.

It adds that refugee children don't have the same access to treatment of chronic and psychological illnesses as German kids.

Some 447 asylum shelter workers were questioned anonymously for the study from May to September 2016.