Oregon police dog takes down 3 suspects in 90 minutes
Oregon police dog takes down 3 suspects in 90 minutes
Police and Law Enforcement Oregon police dog takes down 3 suspects in 90 minutes By  The Clackamas County Sheriff’s Office says K9 Spencer took down 3 suspects in 90 minutes.
	                        
	                        	 (Clackamas County Sheriff’s Office) An Oregon police K9 proved his worth to the force this past weekend, catching three suspects all within the span of 90 minutes. The Clackamas County Sheriff’s Office said in a news release that Spencer's "rare K9 hat-trick" began around 10:20 a.m. local time Sunday, when he was on patrol with his hander Sgt. Don Boone, and the pair tracked down and captured 21-year-old Austin Kollas after he allegedly stole a vehicle in Clackamas, located southeast of Portland. Left to right: Austin Kollas, Timothy Elmore, Lonnette Denison  The 9-year-old Dutch Shepherd captured Kollas after he fled from the car in a parking lot, police said. Just over an hour later, at 11:35 a.m. local time, Spencer took down Timothy Elmore, 41, who was wanted on parole violation charges hiding from Gladstone Police Officers a few miles away. Spencer found the suspect hiding inside a trailer. Related stories...  Abandoned puppies rescued by Georgia trooper, K9 partner   Police: Suspect shot after tossing flaming liquid on cop, K9   Dashcam shows K-9 taking down knife-wielding suspect  Then just nine minutes later, at 11:44 a.m., Spencer captured Lonnette Denison, 36, after police said she attempted to hide from deputies in a holly bush outside her Gladstone apartment. Dennison had warrants out for her arrest on multiple charges, including possession of a controlled substance and theft, according to police records. "It's a rare feat for a Sheriff's Office K9 to get that number of captures in such a short time frame," Sgt. Boone said in a news release. "For Spencer and I, that was a new record -- three in 90 minutes." Boone has been a K9 handler for 20 years, while Spencer has been serving with the force for six years, according to the sheriff's office.

An Oregon police K9 proved his worth to the force this past weekend, catching three suspects all within the span of 90 minutes.

The Clackamas County Sheriff’s Office said in a news release that Spencer's "rare K9 hat-trick" began around 10:20 a.m. local time Sunday, when he was on patrol with his hander Sgt. Don Boone, and the pair tracked down and captured 21-year-old Austin Kollas after he allegedly stole a vehicle in Clackamas, located southeast of Portland.

Expand / Contract Left to right: Austin Kollas, Timothy Elmore, Lonnette Denison (Clackamas County Sheriff’s Office)

The 9-year-old Dutch Shepherd captured Kollas after he fled from the car in a parking lot, police said.

Just over an hour later, at 11:35 a.m. local time, Spencer took down Timothy Elmore, 41, who was wanted on parole violation charges hiding from Gladstone Police Officers a few miles away. Spencer found the suspect hiding inside a trailer.

Then just nine minutes later, at 11:44 a.m., Spencer captured Lonnette Denison, 36, after police said she attempted to hide from deputies in a holly bush outside her Gladstone apartment.

Dennison had warrants out for her arrest on multiple charges, including possession of a controlled substance and theft, according to police records.

"It's a rare feat for a Sheriff's Office K9 to get that number of captures in such a short time frame," Sgt. Boone said in a news release. "For Spencer and I, that was a new record -- three in 90 minutes."

Boone has been a K9 handler for 20 years, while Spencer has been serving with the force for six years, according to the sheriff's office.