Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch was just tripped up by a horse-sized duck
Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch was just tripped up by a horse-sized duck
What would you rather fight? A hundred duck-sized horses or a horse-sized duck? It's the question that has plagued Reddit for years, and today it stumped the next likely member of the Supreme Court of the United States of America. With silly things like the future of marriage equality and women's reproductive rights on the line, Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake took a moment out of Tuesday's confirmation hearing to ask Judge Neil Gorsuch the aforementioned brainteaser at the prompting of his teenage son. SEE ALSO: Trump to turn Supreme Court nomination into 'The Bachelor' on Facebook Live And what was this legal scholar's answer? Was he definitive, like in his 2004 Oxford dissertation that reportedly opposed same-sex marriage ? Nope. The man who will be challenged with breaking the current 4-4 Supreme Court stalemate couldn't even answer this incredibly question. "You can tell [your son] I'm very rarely at a loss for words," responded Gorsuch, "but you got me." Sen. Flake: "Would you rather fight 100 duck-sized horses or one horse-sized duck?" Gorsuch: ................. ? pic.twitter.com/em5kooF5mh — Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) March 21, 2017 A round of laughs ensued. Notably, Flake says that the question came from his son Dallin — and for that we should be thankful. If he had given the podium over to his other son, Tanner, we might have been subjected to a slightly less chuckle-worthy line of questions. Like what, you ask? Something about the morality of fighting genetically engineered super fowl? Nope. More like why it's not OK to spout racism, anti-semitism, and homophobia online — something Tanner did in 2013 ( he went by the online moniker "n1ggerkiller” ), forcing poppa Flake to apologize for the teen. “I’m very disappointed in my teenage son’s words, and I sincerely apologize for the insensitivity," the elder Flake told at the time . "This language is unacceptable, anywhere." But back to today's laugh-it-up hearing. The answer to the question is obvious: A horse-sized duck. You can distract it with a loaf of bread. As to whether our elected officials should be spending their time more wisely at a Supreme Court confirmation hearing? Well that's a true stumper. WATCH: The Beginner's Guide to Reddit

What would you rather fight? A hundred duck-sized horses or a horse-sized duck?

It's the question that has plagued Reddit for years, and today it stumped the next likely member of the Supreme Court of the United States of America.

With silly things like the future of marriage equality and women's reproductive rights on the line, Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake took a moment out of Tuesday's confirmation hearing to ask Judge Neil Gorsuch the aforementioned brainteaser at the prompting of his teenage son.

And what was this legal scholar's answer? Was he definitive, like in his 2004 Oxford dissertation that reportedly opposed same-sex marriage? Nope. The man who will be challenged with breaking the current 4-4 Supreme Court stalemate couldn't even answer this incredibly simple question.

"You can tell [your son] I'm very rarely at a loss for words," responded Gorsuch, "but you got me."

Sen. Flake: "Would you rather fight 100 duck-sized horses or one horse-sized duck?"



Gorsuch: ................. ?pic.twitter.com/em5kooF5mh — Bradd Jaffy (@BraddJaffy) March 21, 2017

A round of laughs ensued.

Notably, Flake says that the question came from his son Dallin — and for that we should be thankful. If he had given the podium over to his other son, Tanner, we might have been subjected to a slightly less chuckle-worthy line of questions.

Like what, you ask? Something about the morality of fighting genetically engineered super fowl? Nope. More like why it's not OK to spout racism, anti-semitism, and homophobia online — something Tanner did in 2013 (he went by the online moniker "n1ggerkiller”), forcing poppa Flake to apologize for the teen.

“I’m very disappointed in my teenage son’s words, and I sincerely apologize for the insensitivity," the elder Flake told Buzzfeed at the time. "This language is unacceptable, anywhere."

But back to today's laugh-it-up hearing. The answer to the question is obvious: A horse-sized duck. You can distract it with a loaf of bread.

As to whether our elected officials should be spending their time more wisely at a Supreme Court confirmation hearing? Well that's a true stumper.