French interior minister resigns amid daughters jobs probe
French interior minister quits amid daughters' parlimentary job probe


Bruno Le Roux has quit after an investigation was launched into a report he hired his daughters while they were in High School

A French interior minister has quit after it was revealed an investigation was launched into a report that he hired his two daughters for temporary parliamentary jobs while they were still in High School.

Bruno Le Roux was summoned by Prime minister Bernard Cazeneuve after the French financial prosecutor's office opened the investigation.

According to TMC Television, Le Roux employed his daughters while they were still teenagers, as parliamentary assistants for a total salary of 55,000 Euros (£48,000).

The national financial prosecutor's office said the preliminary investigation into the claims in the TV programme will be led by the agency charged with fighting corruption and financial and tax wrongdoing.

While it is legal in France for politicians to hire family members, the TMC report suggests Le Roux's daughters did not perform all the work. They were first hired while still in high school.

Le Roux, a member of the Socialist Party, was quoted by TMC as saying his daughters worked for him during school holidays to gain experience.

A similar scandal around employing family members has deeply damaged conservative Francois Fillon's presidential bid.

Le Roux's daughters, now 23 and 20, allegedly started working as parliamentary aides for their father over short holiday contracts when they were 15 and 16 and Le Roux was a legislator in the French National Assembly.

TMC said Le Roux's cabinet staff at the interior ministry confirmed the dates of the 24 vacation jobs the daughters held between 2009 and 2016.

Le Roux is said to have hired his daughters during their school holidays while they were in High School but it is said they didn't do the full job required

Le Roux told the TMC programme his daughters never had permanent jobs and has suggested their jobs were not fake, unlike what the investigators suspect in the Fillon case.

'They did work,' he insisted in an earlier interview with the channel.

'Of course, my daughters worked with me during summer times, especially or during school vacation periods, but never permanently,' he said earlier in March.

Jean-Christophe Picard, president of anti-corruption association Anticor, told BFM TV that Le Roux should resign to avoid any conflict of interest since, as interior minister, he is also the top boss of the police officers investigating his case.

Benoit Hamon, the Socialist Party's candidate for France's April-May two-round presidential election, has urged Le Roux to 'quit the government' to 'lift suspicion'.

The swift judicial reaction to the report on Le Roux's daughters reflects a marked shift in French attitudes towards corruption in politics, notably since the new position of a national financial prosecutor was created three years ago.

'Mr Clean' rocked by allegations Francois Fillon, the French right-wing presidential candidate charged over a fake jobs scandal, is a career politician whose image as a steady and unblemished leader has been shattered during the campaign. As he sought the nomination for the rightwing Republicans party last year, he talked up his reputation as 'Mr Clean' - in contrast to his rivals, former president Nicolas Sarkozy and ex-PM Alain Juppe. Prospective presidents needed to be 'irreproachable,' he said, while ministers facing charges could not serve in his government 'while being dogged by suspicion.' In late January, in an interview aired on national television, he declared that 'there is only one thing that would stop me being a candidate: if my honour was called into question, if I was charged.' That is now a reality as Fillon was charged today with misuse of public money and corporate assets over the employment of his wife as a parliamentary assistant for 15 years. Though an MP employing a family member is not illegal in France, Penelope Fillon is accused of doing little for the 680,000 euros she received in salary. Fillon has denied all wrongdoing and says low-key Penelope worked with him doing constituency work from his home in the Sarthe region of northern France during his nearly four-decade political career. The ex-prime minister has backtracked on his promise to withdraw his candidacy and is now running as an anti-system rebel determined to thwart the media, the government and magistrates who he says are working against him. The transformation has left many former allies stunned. 'Some people hoped to bring me down, and bring down your voice with me, but you're here!' Fillon told cheering supporters in a now-typical display of defiance in the south of France last Thursday. 'It's you and only you who are the sovereign power, the guardians of democracy!' he said. But the scandal has cost him credibility and support among his party and the electorate. After being the clear front-runner at the beginning of the year, polls currently suggest he would be eliminated in the first round of the election on April 23.

The quick action of the prosecutor's office, which specialises in corruption, tax fraud and other complex cases with a national jurisdiction, became well-known when the Fillon case broke in late January.

Some of France's most prominent politicians - including former presidents Nicolas Sarkozy and Jacques Chirac - have been embroiled in corruption scandals involving accusations from shady campaign financing to nepotism.

But the French public are becoming frustrated with a political establishment it sees as enriching itself while average workers suffer, and there is growing public pressure for transparency.