Donald Trump, Syria, Chuck Barris: Your Wednesday Briefing
Donald Trump, Syria, Chuck Barris: Your Wednesday Briefing
President Trump pressured Republicans on Tuesday to support legislation to overhaul the health care system or risk payback in next year’s midterm congressional elections. One of our columnists took a look at what’s at stake in the bill , which is scheduled for a vote in the House on Thursday. Mr. Trump plans to dismantle the climate change policies of his predecessor, Barack Obama. Advertisement The administration is not expected to say explicitly that the U.S. is withdrawing from the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. But the policy reversals, which could be announced as soon as Thursday, would make it virtually impossible to meet emissions reduction goals under the deal. Advertisement In six maps, we look at how Americans think about climate change . New data shows that most believe global warming is happening, but fewer are sure the changes will harm them personally. During the second day of his Supreme Court confirmation hearings , Judge Neil Gorsuch said he would not hesitate to rule against the president if the law required it. He also lamented attacks on federal judges as “disheartening and demoralizing.” Mr. Trump has repeatedly made such attacks against those who rule against his administration. ( The president was undeterred , later saying, “I’ll criticize judges.”) Advertisement We take a look at what to expect during today’s hearing , and the behind-the-scenes struggle over Judge Gorsuch’s nomination. Insurgents seized government positions on the outskirts of Damascus on Tuesday as part of their most ambitious offensive on the capital in years, signaling that the war in Syria was far from over. Advertisement A rare cancer first linked to the implants in 2011 has now been associated with nine deaths , the Food and Drug Administration said. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy In today’s show, senators ask, who is Judge Gorsuch’s boss? Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Advertisement Listen on a computer , iOS device or Android device . Business on certain electronic devices on some flights may lead to more thorough searches, including a check through travelers’ data . Advertisement Here’s a guide to help you safeguard your information should customs officials demand access to your smartphone. Advertisement  is trying to stop ads from appearing next to hate speech in an effort to protect its lucrative advertising business, after some major clients withdrew. went 64 consecutive days without declining more than 1 percent during a trading session. That streak ended on Tuesday . Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Advertisement Smarter Living Here are some survival tips . Try Persian herbed rice for a fragrant dish scented with dill, mint and saffron. Noteworthy In today’s 360 video , visit a nonprofit that sets up temporary clinics providing free medical services to rural Americans. Coming Out in Droves for Free Health Care A nonprofit sets up temporary clinics that provide free medical services to people in rural areas of the United States. For the hundreds that showed up in Cookeville, Tenn., this was a chance to get a checkup, dental treatment or eye care.      President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines is a child of privilege turned populist politician, an antidrug crusader who has struggled with drug abuse. Obsessed with death, he has turned his violent vision into policy . Chuck Barris created “The Gong Show,” a lowbrow game show in the 1970s that became a cultural sensation in the U.S. He was 87. Advertisement Jerry Krause orchestrated the Chicago Bulls’ dynasty of the 1990s, assembling the teams that Michael Jordan led to six N.B.A. championships. He was 77. Advertisement Canadian diplomats in the U.S. have been ordered to stop setting up life-size cardboard cutouts of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau at promotional events. Advertisement No reason was given, but his governing Liberal Party has tried carefully to balance the dapper leader’s image as a celebrity with his role as a statesman. Jimmy Kimmel asked Dave Chappelle why, after 13 years, he decided to release a new comedy special. (Two, in fact.) Mr. Chappelle explained: “Money.” Advertisement Back Story William Shatner has a birthday today. So does the world-famous character that made his fortune: Capt. James T. Kirk of the Starship Enterprise, who set out “to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilizations” in the U.S. television show “Star Trek.” A Canadian, Mr. Shatner trained as a Shakespearean actor before moving into TV and film. In the mid-’60s, television executives rejected the first pilot of the show, but the second, in which Mr. Shatner played Kirk for the first time, fared better. “I never thought it’d become a big deal, just 13 episodes and out,” Mr. Shatner told The New York Times Magazine in 2010. In fact, it lasted 79. The show gained a cult following in syndication and spawned a pop cultural phenomenon with multiple television series (a new one is planned) and 13 feature films (and counting). Advertisement Mr. Shatner turns 86 today, but James Tiberius Kirk won’t be born for another 216 years. For those who don’t want to wait until 2233 to pay tribute to one of science fiction’s best-known names, boldly go to Riverside, Iowa , where a plaque proudly announces the “Future Birthplace of Captain James T. Kirk.” Advertisement We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Listen on a computer, iOS device or Android device.

Business

• American and British restrictions on certain electronic devices on some flights may lead to more thorough searches, including a check through travelers’ data.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Here’s a guide to help you safeguard your information should customs officials demand access to your smartphone.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Google is trying to stop ads from appearing next to hate speech in an effort to protect its lucrative advertising business, after some major clients withdrew.

• The S.&P. 500 went 64 consecutive days without declining more than 1 percent during a trading session. That streak ended on Tuesday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Smarter Living

• Heading off to a job you hate? Here are some survival tips.

• Recipe of the day: Try Persian herbed rice for a fragrant dish scented with dill, mint and saffron.

Noteworthy

• Chance for a checkup.

In today’s 360 video, visit a nonprofit that sets up temporary clinics providing free medical services to rural Americans.

Video

• “I might go down in the history as the butcher.”

President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines is a child of privilege turned populist politician, an antidrug crusader who has struggled with drug abuse.

Obsessed with death, he has turned his violent vision into policy.

• In memoriam.

Chuck Barris created “The Gong Show,” a lowbrow game show in the 1970s that became a cultural sensation in the U.S. He was 87.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jerry Krause orchestrated the Chicago Bulls’ dynasty of the 1990s, assembling the teams that Michael Jordan led to six N.B.A. championships. He was 77.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Saying no to Trudeau.

Canadian diplomats in the U.S. have been ordered to stop setting up life-size cardboard cutouts of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau at promotional events.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

No reason was given, but his governing Liberal Party has tried carefully to balance the dapper leader’s image as a celebrity with his role as a statesman.

Photo

• Best of late-night TV.

Jimmy Kimmel asked Dave Chappelle why, after 13 years, he decided to release a new comedy special. (Two, in fact.) Mr. Chappelle explained: “Money.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Back Story

William Shatner has a birthday today.

So does the world-famous character that made his fortune: Capt. James T. Kirk of the Starship Enterprise, who set out “to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilizations” in the U.S. television show “Star Trek.”

Photo

A Canadian, Mr. Shatner trained as a Shakespearean actor before moving into TV and film.

In the mid-’60s, television executives rejected the first pilot of the show, but the second, in which Mr. Shatner played Kirk for the first time, fared better.

“I never thought it’d become a big deal, just 13 episodes and out,” Mr. Shatner told The New York Times Magazine in 2010.

In fact, it lasted 79. The show gained a cult following in syndication and spawned a pop cultural phenomenon with multiple television series (a new one is planned) and 13 feature films (and counting).

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Shatner turns 86 today, but James Tiberius Kirk won’t be born for another 216 years.

For those who don’t want to wait until 2233 to pay tribute to one of science fiction’s best-known names, boldly go to Riverside, Iowa, where a plaque proudly announces the “Future Birthplace of Captain James T. Kirk.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kenneth R. Rosen contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.