Buy Things For Your Mansion, Find Out Where You’ll Live In 10 Years
Buy Things For Your Mansion, Find Out Where You'll Live In 10 Years
Buy Things For Your Mansion, Find Out Where You’ll Live In 10 Years  You got:
								
								London!  In 10 years’ time, you’ll settle down in London. The city matches your expensive taste, and you’ll thrive being in the centre of all the hustle and bustle. The weather might be a bit unpredictable, but you’ll be happy regardless.     You got:
								
								New York City!  In 10 years’ time, you’ll settle down in NYC. You have super-expensive taste in everything, and that reflects in how you’d furnish your mansion. And what better place to really flash the cash than the Big Apple?     You got:
								
								Vancouver!  In 10 years’ time, you’ll settle down in Vancouver. You’ll be surrounded by a multitude of different cultures, as this is one of the most diverse cities in the world and a beautiful place to settle down.     You got:
								
								Berlin!  In 10 years’ time, you’ll settle down in Berlin. You’ll find the best in the glamour and grit of the city, and with so much to explore, you’ll never get bored.     You got:
								
								Honolulu!  In 10 years’ time, you’ll settle down in Honolulu. You’ll lap up a bit of paradise every single day and live a pretty relaxed life by the beach.     You got:
								
								Tokyo!  In 10 years’ time, you’ll settle down in Tokyo. Your life will be nonstop and constantly on the move like the city itself. The neon skyline will never get old for you, and you’ll be beyond content once you settle down.    SHARE YOUR RESULTS   22 Reasons You Definitely Shouldn't Get Married In...    Buy Things For Your Mansion, Find Out Where You'll...  You are signed in as . Text Image Video Link This video may have privacy restrictions. Ensure that it is publicly visible to everyone.  Share this on Facebook  Starting soon, you'll only be able to post a comment on BuzzFeed using a Facebook account or via our app. If you have questions or thoughts, email us here.

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.