Apple Devices Can't Be Hacked? Researchers Hack MacBook Pro, Hijack Touch Bar To Prove Point
Apple Devices Can't Be Hacked? Researchers Hack MacBook Pro, Hijack Touch Bar To Prove Point
Apple Devices Can't Be Hacked? Researchers Hack MacBook Pro, Hijack Touch Bar To Prove Point When Apple fans are asked why they prefer to use Macs, quite a few will answer that the devices are less susceptible to malware attacks. Now, security researchers have proven once again that’s no more the case, by hacking into a MacBook Pro. At this year’s Pwn2Own, a global hacking competition that’s been organized since 2007, white hat hackers took on an as yet untamed beast, the MacBook Pro. The duo of Samuel Groß (@5aelo) and Niklas Baumstark (@_niklasb) attacked the Safari browser on the MacBook Pro to gain root access. To demonstrate their success, the team used the device’s new Touch Bar in an innovative way, wiping the control icons to instead scroll their triumphant message across it. The attack used a combination of five different vulnerabilities within the system, to have arbitrary code executed as root on the macOS. But while this particular demonstration may have been relatively tame, experts worry about worse consequences when attempts are made by malicious actors. One small relief is that the chain of executions is not something Groß and Baumstark decoded on the fly. It involved painstaking research, meaning your MacBook Pro may be safe for a little while at the very least. Another team at the Pwn2Own event also managed to break into the MacBook Pro. China-based security research firm Chaitin Technology also managed to compromise the device in similar fashion, but to greater effect. Chaitin’s method was so much more successful, the team even received a higher cash payout than Groß and Baumstark. These vulnerabilities, if left unpatched, could pose a serious threat to MacBook Pro users. People could eventually find themselves at the mercy of ransomware scammers, forced to pay out large sums of money in order to be able to use a forcefully locked down device. During the course of the Pwn2Own competition in Vancouver, Canada, several other teams also successfully demonstrated exploits against Microsoft Edge, Apple's Safari, Adobe Reader, and even Ubuntu Desktop. Researchers were required to share their exploits with the tournament organisers, so the software companies involved can have them patched. Hopefully, that means Apple is watching closely and working on a solution. You can find all the results on the Zero Day Initiative website here .

When Apple fans are asked why they prefer to use Macs, quite a few will answer that the devices are less susceptible to malware attacks. Now, security researchers have proven once again that’s no more the case, by hacking into a MacBook Pro.

The triumphant message displayed on the Touch Bar by the hacking duo - Zero Day Initiative

At this year’s Pwn2Own, a global hacking competition that’s been organized since 2007, white hat hackers took on an as yet untamed beast, the MacBook Pro. The duo of Samuel Groß (@5aelo) and Niklas Baumstark (@_niklasb) attacked the Safari browser on the MacBook Pro to gain root access. To demonstrate their success, the team used the device’s new Touch Bar in an innovative way, wiping the control icons to instead scroll their triumphant message across it.

The attack used a combination of five different vulnerabilities within the system, to have arbitrary code executed as root on the macOS. But while this particular demonstration may have been relatively tame, experts worry about worse consequences when attempts are made by malicious actors. One small relief is that the chain of executions is not something Groß and Baumstark decoded on the fly. It involved painstaking research, meaning your MacBook Pro may be safe for a little while at the very least.

Another team at the Pwn2Own event also managed to break into the MacBook Pro. China-based security research firm Chaitin Technology also managed to compromise the device in similar fashion, but to greater effect. Chaitin’s method was so much more successful, the team even received a higher cash payout than Groß and Baumstark.

These vulnerabilities, if left unpatched, could pose a serious threat to MacBook Pro users. People could eventually find themselves at the mercy of ransomware scammers, forced to pay out large sums of money in order to be able to use a forcefully locked down device.

During the course of the Pwn2Own competition in Vancouver, Canada, several other teams also successfully demonstrated exploits against Microsoft Edge, Apple's Safari, Adobe Reader, and even Ubuntu Desktop. Researchers were required to share their exploits with the tournament organisers, so the software companies involved can have them patched. Hopefully, that means Apple is watching closely and working on a solution. You can find all the results on the Zero Day Initiative website here.

Don't Miss 2.7 K SHARES 8.9 K SHARES 11.2 K SHARES 4.6 K SHARES