Texas 'affluenza' teen's lawyers seek his release from jail
Texas 'affluenza' teen's lawyers seek his release from jail
Shares                Lawyers for a Texas teenager who used an "affluenza" defense in a fatal drunken-driving wreck have turned to the Texas Supreme Court in an effort to secure his release from jail. The motion filed Friday on behalf of 19-year-old Ethan Couch argues that a judge had no authority to sentence Couch to nearly two years in jail after his case was moved from juvenile to adult court. Couch's attorneys argue that the judge only had jurisdiction over criminal cases and that juvenile matters are civil. Couch was given 10 years' probation after killing four people in a 2013 wreck. He later violated his probation. A defense expert invoked the term "affluenza" in arguing during the sentencing phase of the teenager's trial that he was coddled into a sense of irresponsibility. Shares                  Texas 'affluenza' teen's lawyers seek his release from jail   SCOTUS nominee says Trump attacks on federal judges 'disheartening'   1 year on, many scars have healed, yet Brussels still hurts   Afghanistan wants more US help in fight against Taliban, IS   'Gong Show' creator Chuck Barris dies at 87   Closer US-Russia ties uncertain as Tillerson plans trip   Cause of 8-alarm fire in Kansas deemed accidental   Dylann Roof's friend gets over 2 years for hindering FBI   Baby boy desperately tries to nap on his big, fluffy Goldendoodle dog   Babies born 18 hours apart in same hospital coincidentally named Romeo and Juliet   'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory' preparing for Broadway debut   Teen EMT delivers her 1st baby, born 2 weeks early, in couple's bedroom   Dig deeper before mocking 'crazy' pet parents   Girl battling cancer granted wish of seeing 'A Dog's Purpose,' gets visit from dog in film   Brotherly love: Two brothers who live 1,000 miles apart reunite in heartwarming viral video   Gunshot injuries cost at least $6.6 billion in US over eight year span, study finds   Tom Brady's Super Bowl jersey resurfaces in new photo   US hosting 68 countries for major anti-ISIS summit   New security rule affects certain flights to the US   Former Penn State president's criminal trial set to resume   Report: Climate outlook improves as fewer coal plants built   US prosecutors oppose easing jail conditions for El Chapo   Accelerated executions: Arkansas plans 8 over 10-day period   Texas company lets you drive real tanks, fire rounds and blow stuff up   Inside Ellen DeGeneres' home, selling for $45M   Woman shares how and why she planned her wedding in 5 days   Lawmaker charged with child prostitution filed odd bills   Czechs saw off rhino horns as precaution after France attack   Jenny Slate has 'no regrets' about relationship with Chris Evans   'Power Rangers' breaks down barriers with autistic, LGBT characters   Inside the life of 'All My Children' creator

Lawyers for a Texas teenager who used an "affluenza" defense in a fatal drunken-driving wreck have turned to the Texas Supreme Court in an effort to secure his release from jail.

The motion filed Friday on behalf of 19-year-old Ethan Couch argues that a judge had no authority to sentence Couch to nearly two years in jail after his case was moved from juvenile to adult court.

Couch's attorneys argue that the judge only had jurisdiction over criminal cases and that juvenile matters are civil.

Couch was given 10 years' probation after killing four people in a 2013 wreck. He later violated his probation.

A defense expert invoked the term "affluenza" in arguing during the sentencing phase of the teenager's trial that he was coddled into a sense of irresponsibility.