Stolen Van Gogh works return to Amsterdam after 14 years
Stolen Van Gogh paintings return to Amsterdam after 14 years


Two Vincent van Gogh paintings that were stolen in a smash-and-grab heist more than 14 years ago have finally returned to Amsterdam today.

The paintings, thought to be worth a total of $100million (£80million), were put on display in a museum dedicated to the Dutch master's work after being found last year during an investigation into cocaine trafficking.

Van Gogh Museum director Axel Rueger said: 'They're back,' calling their return 'one of the most special day in the history of our museum,' which attracts visitors from all over the world.

Two Vincent van Gogh paintings that were stolen in a smash-and-grab heist more than 14 years ago have finally returned to Amsterdam today (pictured as they were unveiled)

View of the Sea at Scheveningen (pictured) was one of two oil painting by Vincent Van Gogh worth millions of dollars which was snatched by thieves on December 7, 2002

Congregation Leaving the Reformed Church in Nuenen was the other oil painting that was stolen, portraying the village where his parents lived and painted for his mother

The paintings are called View of the Sea at Scheveningen, painted in 1882, and ,' and Congregation leaving the Reformed Church in Nuenen, a work dated 1884-85.

Speaking at the unveiling today, General Gianluigi D'Alfonso of the Italian financial police, explained that they were found last year wrapped in cotton sheets stiffed in a box hidden behind the wall in a toilet.

The paintings were found in a farmhouse near Naples as Italian police seized 20 million euros ($21.6 million) worth of assets, including villas, apartments and even a small airplane.

Investigators claim that the assets are linked to two drug kingpins Mario Cerrone and Raffaele Imperiale from the infamous Camorra crime syndicate.

The paintings were stolen on December 7, 2002, at around 8am - two hours before the museum opened.

The thieves used a 15-foot ladder to climb onto the museum's roof and break into the building, escaping by sliding down a rope.

Two men were later caught and convicted of the theft thanks in part to DNA evidence linking them to the scene.

Van Gogh Museum director Axel Rueger, left, and Jet Bussemaker, Minister for Education, Culture and Science, stand next to Seascape at Scheveningen, painted in 1882

The paintings are now back on display at the museum (pictured, with Reuger and Bussemaker admiring them) before being taken to its conservation studio for repair

They were sentenced to 4 years and 4 years six months, respectively, but the paintings - which were not insured - were not recovered.

One of the two men convicted of stealing the paintings told Dutch newspaper De Telegraaf that he originally wanted to steal Van Gogh's world famous 'Sunflowers' painting, but it was too well protected.

Another well-known Van Gogh work, 'The Potato Eaters,' was too big to get through the hole that Octave Durham and his accomplice smashed in the security glass to get into the museum after clambering over a fence and using a ladder to get onto its roof.

WHY ARE THE PAINTINGS SPECIAL? 'Seascape at Scheveningen' is the only painting from Van Gogh's period in The Hague (1881-1883) that the Dutch museum had in its collection. 'It is one of the only two seascapes that he painted during his years in the Netherlands and it is a striking example of Van Gogh's early style of painting, already showing his highly individual character,' the museum said. Meanwhile, 'Congregation leaving the Reformed Church in Nuenen' was painted by Van Gogh for his mother. It is a small canvas that shows the church where Van Gogh's father was a Minister. 'In 1885, after his father's death, Van Gogh reworked the painting and added the churchgoers in the foreground, among them a few women in shawls worn in times of mourning. This may be a reference to his father's death,' the museum said.

Durham, who was sentenced to three and a half years in prison after being convicted in 2004, told De Telegraaf that the paintings were sold to the mafia after a Dutch criminal who had agreed to buy them was murdered.

The paintings are now back on display at the museum before being taken to its conservation studio for repair. Experts said they suffered remarkably little damage even as the thieves in 2002 ripped them out of their frames and fled.

'After years shrouded in darkness, they can now shine again,' said Jet Bussemaker, the Dutch minister for education, culture and science, as an orange screen slid away to reveal the two paintings behind a glass wall.

Reuger added: 'It is not only a miracle that the works have been recovered but it's even more miraculous almost that they are in relatively unharmed condition.'

The museum director was on vacation when the call came last year from Italian authorities who believed they had recovered the paintings, but was not convinced straight away.

'I was hopeful but also a little hesitant, because over the course of the years we had multiple occasions when people phoned us, contacted us, claiming that they knew something about the whereabouts of the works. And each time it was false, the trace went cold,' he said. 'The way has been peppered with disappointment.'

But museum experts dispatched to Italy to check the authenticity of the works quickly turned Rueger's doubts into delight.

'It was something we had secretly been hoping for, for all those years,' he said.

The two small works are not typical of Van Gogh's later and better-known works, but are still vital pieces for the museum's collection, Rueger said.

Experts said the paintings, pictured, suffered remarkably little damage even as the thieves in 2002 ripped them out of their frames and fled

Reuger, pictured in front of Seascape at Scheveningen, which is one of his earliest works and the only picture he painted in The Hague

The paintings are now back at a museum that is home to dozens of works by Van Gogh, whose paintings fetch millions of dollars on the rare occasions they come up for auction

The Scheveningen seascape, with a fishing boat and rough sea under a typically gray, cloudy Dutch sky, is one of Van Gogh's earliest works. It is the only painting in the museum's collection painted during his time in The Hague. It suffered a missing rectangular chip from the bottom left-hand corner.

The painting of the church in Nuenen portrayed the village where his parents lived.

'He had painted it as a gift to his mother, so it's a very personal and emotional connection,' Rueger said.

Rueger said the paintings are now back at a museum that is home to dozens of works by Van Gogh, whose paintings fetch millions of dollars on the rare occasions they come up for auction.

'The security, I can assure you, is of Triple-A quality now. So I'm very confident that everything is safe in the museum,' he said.