Pastor Claims Anointed Cake Stopped A Guy From Being Gay
Pastor Claims Anointed Cake Stopped A Guy From Being Gay
A conservative preacher and vocal supporter of President Donald Trump shared claims an “anointed” cake “saved” a gay bartender. Lance Wallnau was answering a question via a Periscope session from a viewer who wanted to stop her son from being gay, according to a video that Right Wing Watch posted online. In response, he shared the story of “hookers” who got “saved” and wanted to help a bar owner “who was gay and very adamantly anti-Christian.” So they baked him a cake and prayed over it, he said. “It was an anointed cake,” Wallnau said. “The power of God hit him while he was eating the cake.” Wallnau claimed the bar owner felt “the presence of God” while eating the cake and underwent some kind of transformation and was eventually baptized. “The spirit that was working him got broken off,” he said. “I’m telling you, it’s a story.” He’s not sure if a magical cake will “save” others, he added. He also did not mention the flavor of the cake. Wallnau has made several bizarre claims before, including a belief that the media uses “ mind control and witchcraft ” to increase opposition to Trump, and that the Women’s March in January and other protests is the work of “ the people of the devil .”  (H/T Joe My God ) ALSO ON HUFFPOST Most Gay-Friendly Places On The Planet       Share this slide:       MORE:

A conservative preacher and vocal supporter of President Donald Trump shared claims an “anointed” cake “saved” a gay bartender.

Lance Wallnau was answering a question via a Periscope session from a viewer who wanted to stop her son from being gay, according to a video that Right Wing Watch posted online.

In response, he shared the story of “hookers” who got “saved” and wanted to help a bar owner “who was gay and very adamantly anti-Christian.”

So they baked him a cake and prayed over it, he said.

“It was an anointed cake,” Wallnau said. “The power of God hit him while he was eating the cake.”

Wallnau claimed the bar owner felt “the presence of God” while eating the cake and underwent some kind of transformation and was eventually baptized.

“The spirit that was working him got broken off,” he said. “I’m telling you, it’s a story.”

He’s not sure if a magical cake will “save” others, he added. He also did not mention the flavor of the cake.