The six tips that will ensure EVERYONE respects you
The six tips that will ensure EVERYONE respects you


A well-tailored suit or sleek haircut might give you a confidence boost, but feeling powerful doesn't need to come down to how you look.

Amy Cuddy, an associate professor at Harvard Business School, has some fail-safe tips on how to feel powerful instantly no matter what you are wearing.

Professor Cuddy, whose TED Talk about 'power poses' has galvanized millions of viewers around the world, reveals how small tweaks to body language can help us perform at our best and liberate ourselves from fear in high-pressure moments.

Writing in her book, Presence, Professor Cuddy said: 'Expanding your body language - through posture, movement and speech - makes you feel more confident and powerful, less anxious and self-absorbed, and generally more positive.'

From breaking up with your partner to an important interview, these tips can be applied to dozens of everyday situations.

Here, FEMAIL shares six of Professor Cuddy's best tips...

Unleash your inner superhero: Professor Amy Cuddy shares her tips on feeling powerful

1. WARM UP WITH BIG POSES

Before you walk into a challenge - be it an athletic event or business negotiation - adopt a pose that takes up as much space as you possibly can.

Professor Cuddy writes: 'By doing this you're telling yourself that you're powerful - that you've got this - which emancipates you to bring your boldest, most authentic self to the challenge.

'You're optimising your brain to be 100 per cent present when you walk in. Think of it as a pre-event warm-up.'

2. PRACTISE EVERY DAY

Every day is an opportunity to practise your power poses, even if you do not have a specific 'challenge' in mind.

Professor Cuddy suggests trying out a few of your favourites first thing in the morning, or when you find a few quiet moments in an elevator or bathroom stall.

Stand up straight: Something as simple as good posture can help banish nerves and fear

3. ARRIVE EARLY

'If you can - and when it's advantageous to do so - arrive before your audience arrives,' Professor Cuddy writes.

'Get comfortable with occupying and expanding in the presentation space. Make the space yours, so your audience is coming to your 'home' as opposed to you going to theirs.

STRETCH IN YOUR SEAT Many of us might think of standing or walking with a sense of power but lose this once we take a seat. Professor Cuddy urges people not to let this happen. She writes: 'If you're about to face a challenging situation and you have no other option but to sit, wrap your arms around the back of your chair and clasp your hands together. This forces you to open your shoulders and chest.' Waiting rooms are also an ideal time to stand or walk around, rather than sit hunched over your phone.

4. STAND UP STRAIGHT

While power posing is important when preparing by yourself before a challenging encounter, it is not so practical once the situation gets underway.

As Professor Cuddy explains: 'Adopting high-power poses in actual interactions is very likely to backfire - by violating norms and causing others to shrink.'

Instead, it is a good idea to adopt strong, upright and open postures, such as sitting and standing up straight with your chest open and shoulders back.

5. USE PROPS

While props might sound like the remit of amateur dramatics societies, Professor Cuddy insists they have a place in power postures.

Props can stop you from collapsing into powerless poses and force you to stretch out. She suggests: 'If you're standing, rest your hand on a table, on the back of a chair, or on a whiteboard.

'If you're sitting, lean forward and place your hands on a table, or make sure your arms are resting on the arms of the chair rather than knotting up in your lap.'

Even small, household objects can also help keep you focused. Holding a glass of water or a remote control will prevent you from collapsing your arms and clasping or fidgeting with your hands.

Be prepared: A glass of water or another prop can help you stop fidgeting with your hands

6. AVOID 'PENGUIN ARMS'

As cute as penguins might be, they should not be your inspiration for power posing.

Professor Cuddy writes: 'When people feel anxious and powerless they often pin their upper arms - from armpit to elbow - at their sides, gesturing only with the lower halves of their arms,' much like a penguin.

This is another way in which we contract our bodies that causes us to 'feel awkward and anxious' - and to come across that way to our audience.

Presence by Amy Cuddy is published by Orion Books, £20. Paperback is due to be released in September 2017.