Woman pulled alive from River Thames after Westminster Bridge attack
Woman pulled alive from River Thames after Westminster Bridge attack
woman has been pulled alive from the River Thames beside the bridge where a major terror attack saw numerous pedestrians hit by a car in the centre of London. It is not known whether she was thrown in by the impact of the crash or jumped into the water to avoid the carnage. A spokesman for the Port of London Authority, which looks after safety on the River Thames, said: "A female member of the public was recovered from the water near Westminster Bridge. She is alive but undergoing urgent medical treatment on a nearby pier. "We believe she fell from the bridge." e said the river has been closed from Vauxhall to Embankment "as part of the security response". The woman was rescued at 2.49pm "She was recovered alive but injured," a spokesman said. "She needed urgent medical attention. We have closed the river. The only person in the river we are aware if following the incident in this female." olice officers said they had received a number of calls about a person being seen in the water. Steve Voake, 55, was walking across the Westminster Bridge towards the South Bank when he saw the aftermath. He said that he had seen a person in the water, as well as at least two bodies lying on the road and one in the water. "I saw a trainer lying in the road and when I looked more closely I saw that there were a couple of bodies the other side of the road," he said. "And when I looked over the side there was another body lying in the water with blood all around it."

A woman has been pulled alive from the River Thames beside the bridge where a major terror attack saw numerous pedestrians hit by a car in the centre of London.

It is not known whether she was thrown in by the impact of the crash or jumped into the water to avoid the carnage.

A spokesman for the Port of London Authority, which looks after safety on the River Thames, said: "A female member of the public was recovered from the water near Westminster Bridge. She is alive but undergoing urgent medical treatment on a nearby pier.

"We believe she fell from the bridge."