Kuwait censors pull Disney's Beauty and the Beast
Kuwait censors pull Disney's Beauty and the Beast for edits


Beauty and the Beast was pulled from cinemas in Kuwait on Monday after censors raised concerns over the content of the new film which includes what has been called the first 'gay moment' for a Disney character.

The film had been showing in the predominantly Muslim country since Thursday, but those with tickets to see it received text messages from Kuwait's National Cinema Company saying screenings were cancelled due to 'unforeseen difficulties'.

Homosexuality is punishable by death in some countries, and in Kuwait it carries a sentence of up to six years in jail.

This image released by Disney shows Dan Stevens as The Beast, left, and Emma Watson as Belle in a live-action adaptation of the animated classic Beauty and the Beast

Duaij Al-Khalifa Al-Sabah, a board member at the National Cinema Company, which operates 11 of Kuwait's 13 movie theatres, said a newly edited version of the movie may be in cinemas later this week.

The company also promised ticket buyers a full refund.

He said concerns centre on a scene late in the movie involving the character LeFou, which director Bill Condon describes as an 'exclusively gay moment'.

'We were requested to stop the screening and further censor the movie for things that were deemed offensive by the Ministry of Information's censorship department,' Al-Sabah said.

The scene lasts less than two seconds and involves the character, played by Josh Gad, holding hands and dancing with another man.

The scene involves the character LeFou (right), played by Josh Gad (pictured left with Reese Witherspoon), holding hands and dancing with another man

In some predominantly Muslim countries, same-sex relations can lead to lashings, imprisonment and fines.

In a few, it carries the death penalty.

Those in support of the ban on the film in Kuwait launched hashtags calling for 'respect' and urging the cinema company to protect children by blocking the movie. The film was given a PG-13 rating in Kuwait.

Disney officials did not immediately respond to a request of comment.

Similar concerns over the film's brief scene prompted a drive-in theatre in the US state of Alabama to cancel showings.

Censors in Malaysia required the scene be edited, but Disney pulled the film from release there.