Rugby star filmed attack on ex-wife's 'new partner' after bugging her home to catch them together, court hears
Rugby star filmed attack on ex-wife's 'new partner' after bugging her home to catch them together, court hears

rugby star filmed an attack on his estranged wife's 'new partner' after bugging her home to catch them together, a court heard. Simon Danielli, 37, stands accused of assaulting former model Olivia Danielli and her friend Michael Browne, and of damaging his wife's mobile phone. he father-of-three then drove to his former marital home and removed the bugging devices he had installed, a court heard. The former World Cup star, who lives in County Down, married Mrs Danielli, 29, in 2009 but the pair separated in 2014. Edinburgh-born Mr Danielli played for Scotland's rugby team between 2003 and 2011 but is now retired from the sport after getting injured in 2012. r Danielli is accused of bugging his wife's home and throwing her to the floor before attacking the man he suspected she was having a relationship with, Newtownards Magistrates Court was told. Prosecutors said Mr Danielli chased after and attacked Mr Browne in the street before throwing his wife's phone away and pushing her to the ground in March 2015. Mrs Danielli told the court she was "shocked" to see her husband "chase after Michael" before he was "on top of him, kicking him and punching him". She claimed that her husband was "filming Michael with his phone as he was kicking him" and that when she took out her mobile, he grabbed it and smashed the screen. Mark Mulholland QC, defending, said the incident was "nothing more than a scuffle" and that Mr Browne's injuries were caused when he fell while running away. r Browne said he was walking Mrs Danielli to her car after she visited him at his home when she saw her husband and told him to "run", the court heard. Mrs Danielli told the court that after ensuring her friend was alright she drove home to find her estranged husband "pulling wires out of the hall". She told the court she believes these were for recording devices. Mr Danielli has denied common assault and criminal damage in relation to his estranged wife and her phone. He admitted common assault of Mr Browne but said the assault was the result of a chase that caused him to fall. The prosecution claim the assault was from blows Mr Danielli allegedly struck. The case continues.

Mr Danielli is accused of bugging his wife's home and throwing her to the floor before attacking the man he suspected she was having a relationship with, Newtownards Magistrates Court was told.

Prosecutors said Mr Danielli chased after and attacked Mr Browne in the street before throwing his wife's phone away and pushing her to the ground in March 2015.

Mrs Danielli told the court she was "shocked" to see her husband "chase after Michael" before he was "on top of him, kicking him and punching him".

She claimed that her husband was "filming Michael with his phone as he was kicking him" and that when she took out her mobile, he grabbed it and smashed the screen.

Mark Mulholland QC, defending, said the incident was "nothing more than a scuffle" and that Mr Browne's injuries were caused when he fell while running away.