Cheeky little girl steals the Pope's skullcap as she gives him a kiss
Cheeky little girl steals the Pope's skullcap as she gives him a kiss


A cheeky little girl has been caught on camera stealing the Pope's skullcap as she gives him a kiss.

The video was shot by the girl's Godfather with the caption: 'Took my Goddaughter to meet the pope. She stole his hat.'

Pope Francis scrambles for the hat, but is all smiles as he re-adjusts his uniform and the girl, named as Shirley, is carried away.

There's a pope behind them. pic.twitter.com/7fphCfb3ic — Mountain Butorac (@MountainButorac) March 22, 2017

Waiting for a pope with my goddaughter. pic.twitter.com/8ayNxzSP5O — Mountain Butorac (@MountainButorac) March 22, 2017

The man, Mountain Butorac, posted just a couple of hours before that he was waiting in Rome for the pontiff with the youngster.

In a photo posted two hours before the incident, Mr Butorac posted a picture of the girl who stole the hat holding her forehead.

In the video, the gathered crowd erupts with laughter after the girl's sneaky swipe.

Mr Butorac leads pilgrimages to the Vatican, and his website states: 'Because all my pilgrimages are custom made, I only lead a few select trips each year.

'I work directly with the parish, school, or organization to design the perfect trip tailored to their needs.

'Because I put so much into these trips, I cannot possibly do 20 pilgrimages a year – nor would I want too!

'I feel that travel is so important, I offer ways for people to travel for free, and have been known to give away trips via social media contests from time to time.

'I put a lot of research into each of my tours. I not only want you to have a rewarding pilgrimage, but also to grow spiritually during our time together.

'I know in many cases this may be a once in a lifetime trip for you and encourage you to compare our tours with others to find the tour that is right for you.'

The girl, named as Shirley, snatches the hat from Pope Francis' head after he gave her a kiss

It is not the first time he has lost his headwear to a curious child.

As the pontiff held a youngster in his arms while visiting a medical centre back in 2013, the cheeky child took off his white zucchetto at the Vatican.

For a moment, it looked like the cap-snatcher had an amazing souvenir - but, with a smile, the leader of the Catholic Church retrieved his headwear and returned it to its rightful place.