7 heartwarming predictions we have for the 'Love Actually' reunion
7 heartwarming predictions we have for the 'Love Actually' reunion
will soon be all around again, thanks to NBC's Red Nose Day Special. The trailer for the special dropped on Wednesday. But NBC is still making us wait until May 25 (or in March 24 if you're across the pond in the UK). Until then, here are 7 of our dream predictions for the special. SEE ALSO: Surprise! 'Love Actually' will get a sequel this spring Billy Mack (Bill Nighy) feels it in his fingers and in his toes every Christmas. Now we think he'll feel it on a Red Nose Day, NBC Universal's charitable event in the U.S. and U.K. that raises money for global nonprofits like Oxfam and Save the Children. Because every sequel — even if it's just a short, non-movie movie — needs a theme song. 2. Justice for Laura Linney Image:  screengrab/love actually Spoiler: Laura Linney's character Sarah doesn't end up finding love (BOO!) with handsome coworker Karl (Rodrigo Santoro). And while Linney's character Sarah is not seen in the trailer for the special, we're hoping that — even if it's off-camera — the last 14 years brought Sarah true love and happiness. She deserves it all. 3. Sam will seek Daniel's help in proposing to Joanna Joanna (Olivia Olson) moved to America and became a big Hollywood star. But she and Sam (Thomas Brodie-Sangster) continued to talk, and years later decided to become an official couple. Now Daniel is seeking stepdad Daniel (Liam Neeson)'s help in putting a ring on it. Daniel's advice (probably): Ditch the 'stache. Oh and propose on Christmas as a band and chorus perform "All I Want for Christmas Is You." It's their song, duh. 4. Speaking of Daniel, he marry that Claudia Schiffer doppleganger from the school. Image:  love actually/screengrab And to think, Daniel almost messed up Carol's name backstage at the school show. Don't worry, their love survived. 5. Natalie and David (sorry, we mean prime minister) are eating chocolate biscuits together Image:  screengrab/love actually David (Hugh Grant) was a cool prime minister, not like those other prime ministers who eat chocolate-less biscuits. He and Natalie are still laughing about his "who do you need to screw around here for a biscuit?" joke. #hughgrantactually  pic.twitter.com/HVt5ikqma8 — emma freud (@emmafreud) March 5, 2017 Now they are crazy in love and enjoy eating chocolate biscuits together. David is prepared to stand up to America's new president. 6. Mark realized he's obsessed with love, not Juliet Image:  screengrab/love actually To most people, Andrew Lincoln is the leader of a group of survivors in the zombie apocalypse But in the universe, he's actually still just Mark. Now, however, Mark no longer pines for Juliet (Keira Knightley). Instead, he realized shortly after his show-up-at-the-doorstep thing that his love for her was a little over the top. He is a frequent attendee of "obsessed with love" group therapy. 7. Jamie's book becomes a bestseller 1 week til #rednosedayactually on BBC1. Has he aged?  Could he be more handsome?   Is she perfect? #justincases  pic.twitter.com/1UCWIIRjfT — emma freud (@emmafreud) March 17, 2017 Just in cases you were wondering, Jamie (Colin Firth) and Aurelia (Lúcia Moniz) are living their best lives. Jamie's book became a bestseller. He and Aurelia decide to escape to France again, this time while he's working on a book about their love. She now makes fun of him as he writes in Portuguese and English.

Love Actually will soon be all around again, thanks to NBC's Red Nose Day Special.

The trailer for the special dropped on Wednesday. But NBC is still making us wait until May 25 (or in March 24 if you're across the pond in the UK).

Until then, here are 7 of our dream predictions for the special.

1. Billy Mack's new hit: 'If you really love Red Nose Day'

Billy Mack (Bill Nighy) feels it in his fingers and in his toes every Christmas. Now we think he'll feel it on a Red Nose Day, NBC Universal's charitable event in the U.S. and U.K. that raises money for global nonprofits like Oxfam and Save the Children.

Because every sequel — even if it's just a short, non-movie movie — needs a theme song.

2. Justice for Laura Linney

Image: screengrab/love actually

Spoiler: Laura Linney's character Sarah doesn't end up finding love (BOO!) with handsome coworker Karl (Rodrigo Santoro).

And while Linney's character Sarah is not seen in the trailer for the special, we're hoping that — even if it's off-camera — the last 14 years brought Sarah true love and happiness. She deserves it all.

3. Sam will seek Daniel's help in proposing to Joanna

Joanna (Olivia Olson) moved to America and became a big Hollywood star. But she and Sam (Thomas Brodie-Sangster) continued to talk, and years later decided to become an official couple.

Now Daniel is seeking stepdad Daniel (Liam Neeson)'s help in putting a ring on it.

Daniel's advice (probably): Ditch the 'stache. Oh and propose on Christmas as a band and chorus perform "All I Want for Christmas Is You." It's their song, duh.

4. Speaking of Daniel, he did marry that Claudia Schiffer doppleganger from the school.

Image: love actually/screengrab

And to think, Daniel almost messed up Carol's name backstage at the school show. Don't worry, their love survived.

5. Natalie and David (sorry, we mean prime minister) are eating chocolate biscuits together

Image: screengrab/love actually

David (Hugh Grant) was a cool prime minister, not like those other prime ministers who eat chocolate-less biscuits.

He and Natalie are still laughing about his "who do you need to screw around here for a biscuit?" joke.

Now they are crazy in love and enjoy eating chocolate biscuits together. David is prepared to stand up to America's new president.

6. Mark realized he's obsessed with love, not Juliet

Image: screengrab/love actually

To most people, Andrew Lincoln is the leader of a group of survivors in the zombie apocalypse

But in the Love Actually universe, he's actually still just Mark.

Now, however, Mark no longer pines for Juliet (Keira Knightley). Instead, he realized shortly after his show-up-at-the-doorstep thing that his love for her was a little over the top.

He is a frequent attendee of "obsessed with love" group therapy.

7. Jamie's book becomes a bestseller

1 week til #rednosedayactually on BBC1. Has he aged? Could he be more handsome? Is she perfect? #justincases pic.twitter.com/1UCWIIRjfT — emma freud (@emmafreud) March 17, 2017

Just in cases you were wondering, Jamie (Colin Firth) and Aurelia (Lúcia Moniz) are living their best lives. Jamie's book became a bestseller. He and Aurelia decide to escape to France again, this time while he's working on a book about their love. She now makes fun of him as he writes in Portuguese and English.

Mashable staff writers Proma Khosla, Erin Strecker and Aliza Weinberger contributed to this story.



