Mike Will Made-It & Future Make Magic on 'Razzle Dazzle': Listen
Mike Will Made-It & Future Make Magic on 'Razzle Dazzle': Listen
Mike Will Made-It & Future Make Magic on 'Razzle Dazzle': Listen  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Leading up the March 24 release date for his album Ransom 2,Â Mike WillÂ Made-It kept the momentum going for his forthcoming LP by dropping the Future -assistedÂ "Razzle Dazzle"Â on Tuesday (March 21).Â The high-powered song allows Future to thrive over Mike Will's thunderous production. On "Razzle Dazzle," the "Draco" star spews boastful lines for theÂ opposition:Â "I dab on these n----s with no doors / You hidin' the real, you behind those." In February, Future spoke on his working relationship with Mike WillÂ Made-It during his interview with Zane Lowe . "You don't wanna smother his whole sound," he said.Â "I wanna be able to give him his own space." In 2015, he and Mike WillÂ toyedÂ with the idea of collaborating on a joint effort titled .  Prior to releasing "Razzle Dazzle," Mike WillÂ gifted fans a slew of tracks offÂ including his intro "On the Come Up" with Big Sean , "Nothing Is Promised" featuring Rihanna , and "Gucci On My" featuringÂ Migos , 21 Savage , and YG .Â Take a listen to "Razzle Dazzle" below.Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Leading up the March 24 release date for his album Ransom 2,Â Mike WillÂ Made-It kept the momentum going for his forthcoming LP by dropping the Future-assistedÂ "Razzle Dazzle"Â on Tuesday (March 21).Â

The high-powered song allows Future to thrive over Mike Will's thunderous production. On "Razzle Dazzle," the "Draco" star spews boastful lines for theÂ opposition:Â "I dab on these n----s with no doors / You hidin' the real, you behind those."

In February, Future spoke on his working relationship with Mike WillÂ Made-It during his interview with Zane Lowe. "You don't wanna smother his whole sound," he said.Â "I wanna be able to give him his own space." In 2015, he and Mike WillÂ toyedÂ with the idea of collaborating on a joint effort titled Ape Sh-t.

Prior to releasing "Razzle Dazzle," Mike WillÂ gifted fans a slew of tracks offÂ Ransom 2 including his intro "On the Come Up" with Big Sean, "Nothing Is Promised" featuring Rihanna, and "Gucci On My" featuringÂ Migos, 21 Savage, and YG.Â

Take a listen to "Razzle Dazzle" below.Â