Sears Admits It Has 'Substantial Doubt' About Its Ability To Survive
Sears Admits It Has 'Substantial Doubt' About Its Ability To Survive
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Lauren Gensler       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) Sears has finally admitted that its future is in question. The struggling retailer said on Wednesday that it has "substantial doubt" about its ability to survive. The company, which owns both Sears and K-Mart stores, has endured years of declining sales and big losses. Shares, which have lost half their value in the last twelve months, sunk 8% in pre-market trading. Sears lost $2.2 billion in its latest fiscal year and hasn't turned an annual profit since 2010. Meanwhile, its liabilities have mounted to $13.2 billion. In an effort to stay afloat, Sears has been siphoning off real estate, shutting stores, raising debt and parting ways with some of its brands. It is in the process of closing 150 stores and Sears also recently sold its Craftsman brand to Stanley Black & Decker for $900 million. and Sears was once the biggest retailer in America and its famous catalogs were found in homes across the country. However, it has not fared well amid competition from retailers like Wal-Mart and Amazon. Its physical footprint in the U.S. has shrunk from 3,400 stores a decade ago to just Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Sears has finally admitted that its future is in question.

The struggling retailer said on Wednesday that it has "substantial doubt" about its ability to survive. The company, which owns both Sears and K-Mart stores, has endured years of declining sales and big losses.

Shares, which have lost half their value in the last twelve months, sunk 8% in pre-market trading.

"Our historical operating results indicate substantial doubt exists related to the company's ability to continue as a going concern," the company said in its annual report.

Sears warned investors that it can't be sure that it will secure the liquidity it needs to keep its doors open. If it continues to experience losses it may not be able to access additional funds under its credit agreement, according to the filing.

Sears lost $2.2 billion in its latest fiscal year and hasn't turned an annual profit since 2010. Meanwhile, its liabilities have mounted to $13.2 billion.

In an effort to stay afloat, Sears has been siphoning off real estate, shutting stores, raising debt and parting ways with some of its brands. It is in the process of closing 150 stores and recently hired a New York real estate agency to sell at least $1 billion in real estate.

Sears also recently sold its Craftsman brand to Stanley Black & Decker for $900 million. It its continuing to explore its options for the Kenmore appliance and Diehard car part brands.

The warning comes a month after Sears said it would wipe $1 billion from its annual expenses and reduce its debt and pension obligations by $1.5 billion. It called these steps part of the "next phase of its strategic transformation."

Sears was once the biggest retailer in America and its famous catalogs were found in homes across the country. However, it has not fared well amid competition from retailers like Wal-Mart and Amazon. Its physical footprint in the U.S. has shrunk from 3,400 stores a decade ago to just 1,400 stores.

Billionaire hedge fund manager Eddie Lampert took control of Sears in 2004 and said he would turn the company around by closing under-performing stores and focusing on profitability. Instead, Lampert's hedge fund has found itself repeatedly lending the company money to keep it alive.