London terror attack: Knifeman shot by police outside Parliament after stabbing officer and killing at least two in Westminster Bridge car rampage
London terror attack: Knifeman shot by police outside Parliament after stabbing officer and killing at least two in Westminster Bridge car rampage
t least two people have died after a knifeman brought terror to the heart of Westminster, mowing down pedestrians then stabbing a policeman before being shot by armed officers. Witnesses described scenes of terror as the attacker was shot several times as he approached a second officer within yards of the Houses of Parliament. Paramedics fought to save his life and that of one of his victims on the floor of the cobbled courtyard in front of Parliament with Foreign Office minister Tobias Ellwood among those who rushed to help. t least one woman was killed as the attacker drove a grey Hyundai i40 across Westminster Bridge before crashing it into railings then running through the gates of the Palace of Westminster. At least one of the people being treated in the palace courtyard was wheeled away on a stretcher with their face covered. A number of others have been hurt - including some with "catastrophic" injuries. he attack left a trail of destruction as paramedics tended to victims on the bridge and at the gate. itnesses said the attacker was shot by police as he approached a second officer clutching his knife during the incident at about 2.45pm. rime Minister Theresa May was seen being ushered into a silver Jaguar in the grounds of the palace as what sounded like gunfire rang out at around 2.45pm. Minutes after the incident an emergency helicopter landed in Parliament Square as sirens were heard outside. Air ambulance medics ran from the helicopter towards the casualties on the ground. Parliament has been suspended. Stay with us for the latest updates. Auto update London Ambulance Service: At least 10 people treated on Westminster Bridge t least 10 patients have been treated on Westminster Bridge and a number of  hospitals are on alert, London Ambulance Service said. Woman pulled alive from River Thames - reports A woman was pulled alive from the River Thames and is being treated by paramedics on a nearby pier. It's thought she was on bridge at time Video: The areas involved in London terror attack  Foreign Office minister attempted to save life of policeman obias Ellwood, the Foreign Office minister, attempted to save the life of the policeman who was stabbed just inside the gates of the parliamentary estate, reports . The Tory MP attempted to give the officer mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and stemmed the blood flow by applying pressure to the wounds. r Elwood – himself a former soldier – remained with the injured officer awaiting the for the air ambulance to arrive, which dropped off in Parliament Square. He was later seen with bloodied hands talking to officers before returning to the Foreign Office. A source close to Mr Elwood told The Telegraph: “[He] tried to give mouth to mouth and stem blood flow from multiple stab wounds to the officer until the chopper and medics arrived.” Mr Elwood has been Parliamentary Under-Secretary at the Foreign Office since July 2014, covering the Middle East and Africa brief. He has been an MP for Bournemouth East since 2005.  Prime Minister to chair meeting of emergency Cobra committee rime Minister Theresa May will chair a meeting of the Government's emergency Cobra committee later today, a Downing Street spokesman said. Acting Met Commissioner was at scene and is 'significant witness' cting Met Commissioner Craig Mackey was at the scene at the time of the incident and is being treated as a "significant witness", Scotland Yard has confirmed, reports Crime Correspondent Martin Evans. Commander BJ Harrington of the Metropolitan Police said there were "a number of casualties" in the Westminster attack "including police officers". Grant Shapps: MPs were told 'get down, drop down on the floor' rant Shapps, Minister of State, Department for International Development, was walking through New Palace Yard when he heard gunfire, reports . He told the Telegraph: "I heard a commotion which might have been a car crashing and then there was shouting and I heard four shots being fired. "Armed police rushed out and me and a group of MPs were told 'get down, drop down on the floor, get back, get back'. "I knew at that stage it wasn't a protestor or something. We knew it was serious and real and i immediately felt really exposed. My mind actually switched to some hostile environment training i had done but you never think you will need to use in London. I remembered about getting to a safe area and thought I need to get into the Palace behind those thick walls. "I then went straight to the deputy speaker to get them to suspend the sitting."  Three French students reportedly hit on Westminster Bridge group of French students were on the bridge at the time of the incident, reports . A teacher with the group said three of his pupils had been hit. A young girl was being treated on the north bank for shock, and was wrapped in a foil sheet where she was seen to by police officers. Video: Witness tells how attacker plunged knife into policeman  MSPs delay second independence referendum vote he Scottish Parliament's presiding officer Ken Macintosh announces the independence referendum debate has been suspended, reports Simon Johnson in Scotland. Security has been upgraded at Holyrood and further details on when the debate will resume will be circulated later. The decision to initially carry on with the debate was severely criticised on social media by several MSPs, including Ruth Davidson. Holyrood's authorities had decided that proceedings should continue before changing their minds. Statement from junior doctor about fatality peaking to reporters outside the central London hospital, junior doctor Colleen Anderson from St Thomas' Hospital said a female pedestrian had died. She also said she treated a police officer in his 30s with a head injury who had been taken to King's College Hospital. She said: "I confirmed one fatality. A woman. She was under the wheel of a bus. She died, confirmed her death at the scene." Ms Anderson said: "There were people across the bridge. There were some with minor injuries, some catastrophic. "Some had injuries they could walk away from or who have life-changing injuries. There were maybe a dozen (injured)."  Pictures of armed police inside Houses of Parliament Incredibly brave @metpoliceuk anti-terror officers co-ordinating a lockdown & evacuation after #ParliamentAttack  pic.twitter.com/XFv6KoNpm4 Thanks to all who texted to ask. I and my staff are safe and currently under lock down. Thanks to police & security for prompt response. pic.twitter.com/gGmI5sH7hO Tourists trapped on London Eye as attraction on lockdown he London Eye tourist attraction, just across the Thames from Parliament, said it was on lockdown following the attack. A spokesman said: "At present we are holding all of our guests within our attractions as per tried and tested security procedures." People still trapped in London Eye #Westminsterterrorattack  pic.twitter.com/sM4pHRQJ9N One woman dead on Westminster Bridge ne woman has died and a number of others have been hurt - including some with "catastrophic" injuries - in the incident on Westminster Bridge, a junior doctor at St Thomas' Hospital has said. Telegraph reporter: It sounded like a bomb hristopher Hope, the Telegraph's Chief Political Correspondent, writes: My desk is next to the window in the Telegraph’s offices. At about 2.40pm I heard a loud bang to the right by the railings followed by a man shouting and screaming. It sounded like a bomb, or a person being hit by car through the open window of our office. Then hundreds of tourists and passers by ran from the scene outside the gates of Parliament and towards Westminster Abbey. A short time later there were a series of gun shots. Then I saw two bodies lying in the road outside Westminster Hall on the road. Police ran into New Palace Yard and started to treat the two bodies. An air ambulance landed in Parliament Square and medics ran across to treat them. Then two ambulances arrived. Medics then jumped out and began to treat the two injured individuals. At around 3.30pm one ambulance left New Palace Yard. One still remains. The air ambulance has left Parliament Square. The car which caused the bang is still in the railings in the shadow of Big Ben. Theresa May back at No. 10 and 'monitoring the situation' heresa May's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister was brought back to Number 10 from Parliament. She is currently monitoring the situation." The office of the Serjeant at Arms, who handles security in the House of Commons, said: "We are aware that there has been an incident that has taken place. At this early stage, we cannot comment further." Jeremy Corbyn: Out thoughts are with the victims n a statement Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said: "Reports suggest the ongoing incident in Westminster this afternoon is extremely serious. "Our thoughts are with the victims of this horrific attack, (their) families and friends. "The police and security staff have taken swift action to ensure the safety of the public, MPs and staff, and we are grateful to them." London Ambulance Service declared 'major incident" ondon Ambulance Service "declared a major incident" in a statement, saying: "We were called at 2.40pm to Westminster Bridge to reports of an incident, with the first crew arriving within six minutes. "We have sent a number of resources to the scene including ambulance crews, London's Air Ambulance and our Hazardous Area Response Team. "We are working closely with other members of the emergency services at the scene, with our priority being to ensure patients receive the medical help they need as quickly as possible. "We have declared a major incident and our priority is to assess patients and ensure that they are treated and taken to hospital as soon as possible. "As we are very busy dealing with this incident, we would ask the public to only call us in a genuine emergency." Extra security at Buckingham Palace this afternoon uckingham Palace declined to comment about its security arrangements in light of the terrorist incident and referred all inquiries to the Met Police. But with the Royal Standard flying above the palace - indicating the Queen was in residence - it was clear some precautions had been taken as the gates, patrolled by armed police, had been closed. MPs 'ordered into lobby by police at gunpoint' round half an hour after the attack, former cabinet minister Anna Soubry claimed she and the Security Minister, Ben Wallace MP, were ordered into the Parliament lobby "at gun point" by police officers. "Colleagues taken out of the library at gun point by counter terrorist armed police officers," she tweeted. Colleagues taken out of the library at gun point by counter terrorist armed police officers. Armed officers ordered myself and Security Minister into lobby at gun point. Terrifying  At least two bodies lying on road and one in water - witness teve Voake, 55, was walking across the Westminster Bridge towards the South Bank when he saw the aftermath. He said he saw at least two bodies lying on the road and one in the water. "I saw a trainer lying in the road and when I looked more closely I saw that there were a couple of bodies the other side of the road," he told the Press Association. "And when I looked over the side there was another body lying in the water with blood all around it." In tweets: Politicians describe chaotic scenes in Westminster oliticians described chaotic scenes in Westminster after a security alert meant many had to be evacuated from Parliament. Shots in Parliament Square. People running like crazy. Police response instant. Heard commotion, looked round. Police weapons drawn, 4 shots, police ordered us to hit ground & get back, get back. I was walking briskly to a vote when crowds of MPs rushed towards me saying that shots have been fired and shouts of 'get back'. Currently with a shell shocked group of MPs at New Scotland Yard having been evacuated following the attack. Police doing an incredible job. Locked in Commons with fellow MPs. Thoughts with innocent people hurt today and thanks as ever to Police & other staff working so hard here. Locked in the Commons Chamber but my heart goes out to the police officers, those hit by the car on the bridge and their families. Stay safe Eyewitness account from Telegraph's Political Editor, Gordon Rayner rom the Telegraph's office on an upper floor of Parliament near Big Ben, the first warning we had of what was about to happen was a bang, followed by a scream, coming from the direction of Westminster Underground station. At first we assumed there had been a car accident, perhaps with someone run over, and I and my colleagues looked out of the window to see people running away from the location of the noise. Seconds later, around a dozen people appeared to rush a gate to New Palace Yard, opposite Parliament Square. It was unclear whether the police had opened the gates to let people in for protection, or the gates were forced open by the weight of people. he people who had come in through the gates quickly appeared to mix with others running away from the pedestrian entrance next to it, and moments later a man with a pistol - assumed to be a police officer - shot a man three times in the chest as he ran towards him, around 25 yards from the gate where the people had entered. He fell backwards onto the cobbles. Confusion followed; inside Parliament police officers moved through corridors telling journalists and staff to stay inside their rooms. MPs in the Commons chamber were told Parliament was suspended. Outside, shouting and temporary chaos as police tried to work out what was going on. Within a minute police were giving emergency CPR to two people on the ground in New Palace Yard. The location is just yards away from the car park ramp where the Conservative MP Airey Neave was killed by an IRA car bomb in 1979. Full Scotland Yard statement "Police are asking people to avoid the following areas: Parliament Square; Whitehall; Westminster Bridge; Lambeth Bridge; Victoria Street up to the junction with Broadway and the Victoria Embankment up to Embankment tube. "This is to allow the emergency services to deal with the ongoing incident. "Officers - including firearms officers - remain on the scene and we are treating this as a terrorist incident until we know otherwise. "We thank the public for their assistance." Westminster Tube station closed Transport for London spokeswoman said Westminster Tube station has been closed "on the request of the police" and buses are being diverted. Witnesses describe 'Asian guy' in his 40s carrying eight-inch long knife itnesses described seeing a middle-aged man carrying a knife and running. Jayne Wilkinson said: "We were taking photos of Big Ben and we saw all the people running towards us, and then there was an Asian guy in about his 40s carrying a knife about seven or eight inches long. "And then there were three shots fired, and then we crossed the road and looked over. The man was on the floor with blood. "He had a lightweight jacket on, dark trousers and a shirt. He was running through those gates, towards Parliament, and the police were chasing him." Police treat attack as 'terrorist incident' cotland Yard said the attack in Westminster was being treated "as a terrorist incident until we know otherwise". Pictured: Theresa May being driven away from Westminster rime Minister Theresa May was seen being ushered into a silver Jaguar car as what sounded like gunfire rang out at Parliament during the incident.  'We literally just heard shots and then saw people running' woman at the scene was on the opposite side of the square when she heard shots ring out at about 2.45pm. She said: "We literally just heard shots and then saw people running, and we went to have a look. I saw a body, they were working on the floor. They were just inside the gates. "He had one gunshot wound to the right side of his chest. I don't know if he was dead or alive, but people were working on him. "I saw that needed medical attention and I asked if I could help because I am a doctor, but they said they were fine. Then the police moved us back." Picture of smoking car outside Palace of Westminster pic.twitter.com/5Sers2tzNH  Commons leader's statement to MPs ommons Leader David Lidington told MPs: "What I am able to say to the House is there has been a serious incident within the estate. "It seems that a police officer has been stabbed, that the alleged assailant was shot by armed police. "An air ambulance is currently attending the scene to remove the casualties. "There are also reports of further violent incidents in the vicinity of the Palace of Westminster but I hope colleagues on all sides will appreciate that it'd be wrong of me to go into further details until we have confirmation from the police and from the House security authorities about what is going on." Downing Street not involved in attack, source confirms Downing Street source declined to say where Theresa May had been during the attack, but said she had not been involved. 'They were running for their lives' ennis Burns, who was just entering Parliament for a meeting when the security alert happened, told the Press Association: "As I was coming through the doors at Portcullis House, a policeman grabbed someone who was coming in and threw him out. "As we were coming though the glass doors I was told by one security guard to get out while another one told me to get in. "As I walked in I heard a security guard get a radio message saying 'a policeman has been stabbed'. "Then I walked in as police officers and security start rushing out of the front doors on to the street. "When I got inside I was wondering what the hell was going on and I saw dozens of panicked people running down the street. The first stream was around 30 people and the second stream was 70 people. "It looked like they were running for their lives." Scene on Westminster Bridge Shooting and people getting run over by a car @ Westminster pic.twitter.com/hwbE4LWMlc  Commons leader tells MP police officer has been stabbed ommons Leader David Lidington has told MPs a "police officer has been stabbed" and the "alleged assailant was shot by armed police" following a "serious" incident within the parliamentary estate. Helicopter lands in Parliament Square inutes after the incident, an emergency services helicopter landed in Parliament Square, as sirens were heard outside. Air ambulance medics came from the helicopter to assist the casualties. Air ambulance just landed at Parliament Square, Westminster, dozens of police cars pic.twitter.com/TZVTO6IzDR wo people lay on the ground in the yard. One of them appeared to have had clothes removed as emergency workers attempted to resuscitate the pair. Parliament Square was closed to traffic. Scotland Yard confirms reports of several people injured on Westminster Bridge cotland Yard said it was called to a firearms incident on Westminster Bridge  amid reports of several people injured. Staff told to stay inside Parliament taff inside Parliament were told to stay inside their offices. House of Commons suspended wo people were seen lying within Old Palace Yard, immediately outside Westminster Hall. The sitting in the House of Commons has been suspended while police officers sealed off the area around the incident. Updates from Telegraph's Political Editor We are being told to stay inside our offices. Police now patrolling the inside of the building. Loud noise that sounded like a car crash, followed by screams, followed by a handful of people rushing the gates of parly opp Parliament Sq ...followed by an armed officer shooting a man three times in the chest from about 6ft away

At least two people have died after a knifeman brought terror to the heart of Westminster, mowing down pedestrians then stabbing a policeman before being shot by armed officers.

Witnesses described scenes of terror as the attacker was shot several times as he approached a second officer within yards of the Houses of Parliament.

Paramedics fought to save his life and that of one of his victims on the floor of the cobbled courtyard in front of Parliament with Foreign Office minister Tobias Ellwood among those who rushed to help.