Big B Snubs Australian Media After They Compare Kohli With Trump In Just One Epic Tweet!
Big B Snubs Australian Media After They Compare Kohli With Trump In Just One Epic Tweet!
Big B Snubs Australian Media After They Compare Kohli With Trump In Just One Epic Tweet! From tagging Virat Kohli's captainship style as ‘dictatorial’ to now comparing him to American President Donald Trump, Australian media is targeting him left, right and center it seems. After the third Ranchi test that ended in a draw, Australian media didn't leave a chance to mock and criticize Virat. An article in the Daily Telegraph read, "Virat Kohli has become the Donald Trump of world sport. Just like President Trump, Kohli decided to blame the media as a means of trying to hide the egg smeared right across his face." The article was titled, “VIRAT KOHLI’S DONALD TRUMP-LIKE CONTEMPT FOR THE TRUTH MAKING MOCKERY OF THE GAME.” That's not all, FOX Sports Australia, a sports network, went on to conducting a Facebook live poll that contested for the title, ‘Vettel (villain) of the week’ and Virat was compared to animals including a panda, a puppy, and a kitten! However, OZ calling Kohli names and comparing him to Trump obviously didn't go down too well with a lot of people. While many criticized the analogy and the comparison, it was Bollywood megastar and star Amitabh Bachchan who shut the Australian media with one epic tweet. Big B, who is active on Twitter could not digest the comparison and chose to give it back to the Australian media. He tweeted, T 2471 - Aussi media calls Virat, Donald Trump of sports !! ... thank you Aussi media for accepting that he is a winner and the PRESIDENT !! pic.twitter.com/ZOoNtuhtC2

From tagging Virat Kohli's captainship style as ‘dictatorial’ to now comparing him to American President Donald Trump, Australian media is targeting him left, right and center it seems. After the third Ranchi test that ended in a draw, Australian media didn't leave a chance to mock and criticize Virat. An article in the Daily Telegraph read, "Virat Kohli has become the Donald Trump of world sport.

BCCL

Just like President Trump, Kohli decided to blame the media as a means of trying to hide the egg smeared right across his face." The article was titled,

Screenshot of the story

“VIRAT KOHLI’S DONALD TRUMP-LIKE CONTEMPT FOR THE TRUTH MAKING MOCKERY OF THE GAME.”

That's not all, FOX Sports Australia, a sports network, went on to conducting a Facebook live poll that contested for the title, ‘Vettel (villain) of the week’ and Virat was compared to animals including a panda, a puppy, and a kitten!

However, OZ calling Kohli names and comparing him to Trump obviously didn't go down too well with a lot of people. While many criticized the analogy and the comparison, it was Bollywood megastar and star Amitabh Bachchan who shut the Australian media with one epic tweet.

BCCL

Big B, who is active on Twitter could not digest the comparison and chose to give it back to the Australian media. He tweeted,

T 2471 - Aussi media calls Virat, Donald Trump of sports !! ... thank you Aussi media for accepting that he is a winner and the PRESIDENT !! pic.twitter.com/ZOoNtuhtC2 — Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) March 21, 2017

Don't Miss 1.9 K SHARES 53 K SHARES 48.5 K SHARES 49.1 K SHARES