Discipline reduced for Conor McGregor from UFC news conference, opens door to boxing license
McGregor sees fine reduced from Diaz tirade
McGregor sees fine reduced from Diaz tirade Sources: UFC targeting Hunt-Lewis fight in June Guide to UFC 210: Predictions and analysis Sonnen, Silva to headline Bellator 180 at MSG Manuwa scores one-punch knockout in London MMA Bracket - Vote for the best fight of all-time Velasquez: I take my health very seriously Yair Rodriguez getting the opportunity to become a star in the UFC Nelson to meet Volkov at April's UFC Fight Night Anderson Silva asks for rematches against Nick Diaz, Michael Bisping Mayweather taunts McGregor, wants June fight Aldo opens as slight betting favorite over Holloway Edgar-Rodriguez set for UFC 211 What's next for Conor McGregor, Tony Ferguson and the lightweight division? The UFC is in desperate need for some new stars Alvarez set to meet Poirier at UFC 211 in May Ferguson: 'Let's give the crowd what they want' Do 10-10 rounds actually exist in MMA? Woodley retains title with majority decision win Johnson seeks to tie Silva's defense record Nurmagomedov hospitalized; UFC title fight off Budd wins Bellator women's featherweight title UFC's White 'aiming' for GSP-Bisping in July Tensions ran high at the UFC 202 news conference for Conor McGregor and Nate Diaz as the two fighters ended up hurling water bottles at each other. (1:43) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment MMA columnist for ESPN.com Analyst for "MMA Live" Covered MMA for Las Vegas Sun Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment LAS VEGAS -- The Nevada State Athletic Commission on Wednesday reduced its punishment on UFC lightweight champion Conor McGregor regarding an incident from August. The NSAC unanimously voted in favor of a settlement package that ordered McGregor to pay a $25,000 fine and perform 25 hours of community service. The settlement comes less than one month after McGregor met with NSAC officials in Las Vegas to submit a written request to reopen his disciplinary case. In October, the NSAC had ordered McGregor to pay a $75,000 fine, produce a public service announcement with a minimum production value of $75,000 and perform 50 hours of community service. The NSAC's original order stemmed from a UFC news conference last year, during which McGregor threw water bottles and energy cans in the direction of Nate Diaz , whom he fought at UFC 202 in Las Vegas. Diaz was fined $50,000 for his role in the incident. The settlement should clear a path for McGregor, 28, to apply for a professional boxing license in Nevada. Updates regarding a potential boxing match between McGregor and former pound-for-pound king Floyd Mayweather Jr. have dominated headlines for months. Prior to Wednesday, McGregor's path to a boxing license was blocked by the NSAC's disciplinary order, which he had challenged through a formal petition for judicial review in Nevada District Court. McGregor attended the hearing via phone but did not speak. His attorney, Jennifer Goldstein, spoke in favor of the new terms on his behalf. The $75,000 amount represented 2.5 percent of McGregor's record-setting $3 million disclosed purse for UFC 202. On Wednesday, Deputy Attorney General Caroline Bateman argued that basing an athlete's fine on a percentage of his or her disclosed purse could be unfair, based on the wide discrepancies in fighters' pay. NSAC executive director Bob Bennett recommended a six-month window for McGregor to complete his 25 hours of community service. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Tensions ran high at the UFC 202 news conference for Conor McGregor and Nate Diaz as the two fighters ended up hurling water bottles at each other. (1:43)

LAS VEGAS -- The Nevada State Athletic Commission on Wednesday reduced its punishment on UFC lightweight champion Conor McGregor regarding an incident from August.

The NSAC unanimously voted in favor of a settlement package that ordered McGregor to pay a $25,000 fine and perform 25 hours of community service. The settlement comes less than one month after McGregor met with NSAC officials in Las Vegas to submit a written request to reopen his disciplinary case.

In October, the NSAC had ordered McGregor to pay a $75,000 fine, produce a public service announcement with a minimum production value of $75,000 and perform 50 hours of community service.

The NSAC's original order stemmed from a UFC news conference last year, during which McGregor threw water bottles and energy cans in the direction of Nate Diaz, whom he fought at UFC 202 in Las Vegas. Diaz was fined $50,000 for his role in the incident.

Conor McGregor has been given reduced discipline for his actions during a news conference prior to UFC 202 in August. Steve Marcus/Getty Images

The settlement should clear a path for McGregor, 28, to apply for a professional boxing license in Nevada. Updates regarding a potential boxing match between McGregor and former pound-for-pound king Floyd Mayweather Jr. have dominated headlines for months.

Prior to Wednesday, McGregor's path to a boxing license was blocked by the NSAC's disciplinary order, which he had challenged through a formal petition for judicial review in Nevada District Court.

McGregor attended the hearing via phone but did not speak. His attorney, Jennifer Goldstein, spoke in favor of the new terms on his behalf.

The $75,000 amount represented 2.5 percent of McGregor's record-setting $3 million disclosed purse for UFC 202. On Wednesday, Deputy Attorney General Caroline Bateman argued that basing an athlete's fine on a percentage of his or her disclosed purse could be unfair, based on the wide discrepancies in fighters' pay.

NSAC executive director Bob Bennett recommended a six-month window for McGregor to complete his 25 hours of community service.