John Calipari, Mark Stoops Agree to 2-Year Contract Extensions with Kentucky
John Calipari, Mark Stoops Agree to 2-Year Contract Extensions with Kentucky
Kentucky men's basketball coach John Calipari and football head coach Mark Stoops each agreed to two-year contract extensions with the school Wednesday, according to UKAthletics.com . "The last eight years at the University of Kentucky have been a terrific ride," Calipari said. "This extension shows our full commitment to each other. I believe this school is the gold standard and I’m so thankful and blessed that this university has given me this opportunity at this point in my career." Calipari is now under contract with the Wildcats through the 2024 season, and "the "John has achieved consistent championship-level performance at Kentucky," Kentucky athletics director Mitch Barnhart said in the statement. "No one in America is better suited for everything that comes with being the coach here. Not only has he attained incredible success on the court, he is also a leader in our community and in college basketball. We have been blessed to have him and Ellen here for the last eight years and we are blessed they will continue to call Kentucky home." Calipari is 248-52 in his eight seasons in Lexington, including a national championship and four trips to the Final Four. The Wildcats have reached the Sweet 16 this season and will face UCLA on Friday. Stoops, meanwhile, is now under contract through 2022, and he'll make "When we came here, doing a rebuild in a challenging situation, I said that full support from everyone involved was imperative and we have always received that," Stoops said. "We needed great commitment, we've had great commitment and we're continuing to get great commitment." Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Frederick Breedon/Getty Images

Kentucky men's basketball head coach John Calipari and football head coach Mark Stoops each agreed to two-year contract extensions with the school Wednesday, according to UKAthletics.com.

"The last eight years at the University of Kentucky have been a terrific ride," Calipari said. "This extension shows our full commitment to each other. I believe this school is the gold standard and I’m so thankful and blessed that this university has given me this opportunity at this point in my career."

Calipari is now under contract with the Wildcats through the 2024 season, and "the total guaranteed compensation will increase to $7.75 million for the 2017-18 season and $8 million for each season thereafter," according to the school's press release.

"John has achieved consistent championship-level performance at Kentucky," Kentucky athletics director Mitch Barnhart said in the statement. "No one in America is better suited for everything that comes with being the coach here. Not only has he attained incredible success on the court, he is also a leader in our community and in college basketball. We have been blessed to have him and Ellen here for the last eight years and we are blessed they will continue to call Kentucky home."

Calipari is 248-52 in his eight seasons in Lexington, including a national championship and four trips to the Final Four. The Wildcats have reached the Sweet 16 this season and will face UCLA on Friday.

Stoops, meanwhile, is now under contract through 2022, and he'll make $3.5 million for the current year and see that total increased by $250,000 in each subsequent campaign. He's gone 19-30 in four seasons with the Wildcats, though the team did play in a bowl game this past season.

"When we came here, doing a rebuild in a challenging situation, I said that full support from everyone involved was imperative and we have always received that," Stoops said. "We needed great commitment, we've had great commitment and we're continuing to get great commitment."





