Big Bird flies into your stories with Sesame Street's first Snapchat filter
Big Bird flies into your stories with Sesame Street's first Snapchat filter
Follow that bird... to Snapchat. Big Bird celebrated his 6th birthday (for the 47th time) on March 20, and to mark the big day, has collaborated with Snapchat to create a lens fitting for a friendly eight-foot yellow bird. The lens will transform you into a more Muppet-y state with feathers, pink and blue eyeshadow and a felt beak, but be sure to sing your ABCs for full effect. Duck-face bird. Overly excited bird. SEE ALSO: A puppeteer's personal story about bringing Sesame Street's first autistic Muppet to life The Big Bird lens marks 's first official foray into the filters of Snapchat. (Although, you know Elmo would the dog face lens.) reaches millions of fans across various social platforms, but the partnership with Snapchat needed the perfect moment to materialize. And what better moment than Big Bird blowing out six candles on a birdseed cake? also hopes to use the Big Bird Snapchat lens to raise awareness around its Yellow Feather Fund , which launched in 2016 and supplies educational materials to children in need both in the U.S. and around the world. As for what Big Bird thinks about everyone on Snapchat celebrating his birthday, he says, "Well, I don’t need presents for my birthday. Instead, I want all of my friends to help me help kids around the world. Helping each other would be the best gift ever." The Big Bird lens will be available on Snapchat from March 22-24. So while we now know what us mere humans would look like as Big Bird, we also wondered what the rest of the Sesame Street gang might look like on Snapchat. Image:  Mashable composite:shutterstock/snapchat Image:  Mashable composite:shutterstock/snapchat Image:  Mashable composite:shutterstock/snapchat WATCH: Simply Delicious Thoughts About Food With Cookie Monster

Follow that bird... to Snapchat.

Big Bird celebrated his 6th birthday (for the 47th time) on March 20, and to mark the big day, Sesame Street has collaborated with Snapchat to create a lens fitting for a friendly eight-foot yellow bird. The lens will transform you into a more Muppet-y state with feathers, pink and blue eyeshadow and a felt beak, but be sure to sing your ABCs for full effect.

Duck-face bird. Overly excited bird.

The Big Bird lens marks Sesame Street's first official foray into the filters of Snapchat. (Although, you know Elmo would love the dog face lens.) Sesame Street reaches millions of fans across various social platforms, but the partnership with Snapchat needed the perfect moment to materialize. And what better moment than Big Bird blowing out six candles on a birdseed cake?

Sesame Street also hopes to use the Big Bird Snapchat lens to raise awareness around its Yellow Feather Fund, which launched in 2016 and supplies educational materials to children in need both in the U.S. and around the world.

As for what Big Bird thinks about everyone on Snapchat celebrating his birthday, he says, "Well, I don’t need presents for my birthday. Instead, I want all of my friends to help me help kids around the world. Helping each other would be the best gift ever."

The Big Bird lens will be available on Snapchat from March 22-24.

So while we now know what us mere humans would look like as Big Bird, we also wondered what the rest of the Sesame Street gang might look like on Snapchat.

Image: Mashable composite:shutterstock/snapchat

Image: Mashable composite:shutterstock/snapchat

Image: Mashable composite:shutterstock/snapchat

WATCH: Simply Delicious Thoughts About Food With Cookie Monster