There is only one man worse at Twitter than Donald Trump
There is only one man worse at Twitter than Donald Trump
Donald Trump's frequently misspelled tweets put the increasingly fragile world order at risk. Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee's, by contrast, pose a far greater danger: They threaten America's comedic leadership in a world increasingly dominated by "funny" reddit photoshops and bad homemade cat GIFS. Huckabee might have failed to secure his party's nomination for president, but he's determined to stay relevant, no matter the cost to our Twitter feeds. SEE ALSO: What to do when you're so overwhelmed by the Trump presidency you can barely move Take a look at his most recent round of tweets and how viral they've become. At first, they might seem impossible to interpret — Huckabee can be inscrutable, like a Jaden Smith of the American right. But keep trying. There are jokes there — jokes that are often so deeply bizarre we loose the will to even embed them. What's clearis  that the right is undergoing a crisis in comedy. Remember when John McCain appeared on in 1999 and we laughed of our own free will? (Though, to be fair, early Steve Carrell might have had more to do with that than the presidential hopeful.) Now all we've got for right-wing comedy is scrolling through Ann Coulter's Twitter feed while hoping in vain that she won't dog-whistle white supremacists, or praying that Trump calls a "failing piece of garbage" again (honestly, that was pretty good). So that leaves Mike Huckabee as the right's only hope — a hope that, sigh, is founded on colonoscopy jokes. Here are some of his most viral/terrible tweets, along with our attempts at translation. You're going with pork sausage? Really? Breaking News! Jimmy Dean Sausage Co will be renamed GORSUCH SAUSAGE because he's grinding up some Democrat Senators into PURE PORK SAUSAGE! — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 21, 2017 During Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch's Senate confirmation hearing, Huckabee posted this tweet, which seemed to suggest both that Democrats depend on government pork and also that they had gone through a meat grinder. Not only that, Huckabee seems to imply that Gorsuch himself had committed some kind of murder-suicide and heroically pushed himself through a meat grinder, only to come out a sausage himself? So both Gorsuch and Democrats are now sausage, but Gorsuch is the higher quality Jimmy Dean sausage — a man good enough to eat. Or something. Fake news — it's hilarious! CNN launching its own social media platform to rival Zuckerburg's-Zucker vs. Zuckerburg.  CNN will call their new site "FakeBook." — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 21, 2017 We've got to give credit to this joke. Sure, it's part of a larger campaign to discredit mainstream media sources and give the right full control of the information cycle but who cares: it's a joke. It's coherent and actually a little bit funny once you get past Huckabee's inability to spell Zuckerberg and weird use of a hyphen. I Tweet for my amusement and your amazement. To haters trolls and humorless people-you really shouldn't follow me. It's way over your head! — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 21, 2017 Of course he followed that tweet with the one above, so let our earlier assessment be stricken from the record. A Baha Men throwback is just never a good idea. Poop Dogg has nephew named Bow Wow; both bad dogs who advocate murder and sex slavery for @POTUS and First Lady;Who let the dogs out? — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 17, 2017 "Who let the dogs out" was created by the Baha men, not "Poop Dogg." Of course, Huckabee has probably filed them both under "music I find threatening," so who can blame his confusion. No. At museum in Oslo—wasn't sure if this was Edward Munch's "The Scream" or Nancy Pelosi at Trump speech last week. pic.twitter.com/0ImsZr2kQz — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 5, 2017 Oh, dad. Someone spring for Photoshop for Huckabee. Please, we're begging you. Dems select ticket for 2020.  A match made in Transylvania pic.twitter.com/iKLJxPTdVx — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 2, 2017 If there's one advantage the left has, it's this: graphic design. Who was the poor intern forced to photoshop this photo and use comic sans un-ironically? How did they align the photos? Why did they use the Microsoft Paint on my parents' computer? Yeah, no. Choice:  Trump or the Grump. the Don or the Con; a Winner or a Weiner; Swamp Drainer or Swamp Dweller; Take No Prisoners or Be a Prisoner? — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) November 5, 2016 Rhyming barely has a place in poetry, let alone Twitter or *shudders* my Twitter feed. Also, Huckabee endorsed a candidate whose campaign is currently under federal investigation for collusion with a foreign adversary all while calling his opponent a hot dog. So. Why would you do this? Breaking news from Hollywood!  Sen. Chuck Schumer cast in lead role for remake of "Boys Don't Cry." — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) February 5, 2017 This movie is based on the true story of a teenager who is brutally murdered for being transgender. This one's just nonsense masquerading as a sentence. Dems poured out of the House Chamber as if someone flushed a commode.  Where were they in such a hurry to go? Is there a sale at Penney's? — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 1, 2017 I assume he's referring to J.C. Penney, a chain that isn't exactly known for attracting hordes of Washington elites in search of a Jordache sale. But how fast does Huckabee think toilet water flows? How many people in his life run away terrified every time they hear a toilet flush? I'm forced to approach this tweet like it's abstract art and not try to force "meaning" on it. I encourage you too to sit back and just enjoy the delightful J.C. Penney's reference. Butt jokes — always classy. Watch celebs spew ignorant political venom at Oscars?? Nah...think I'd rather have a colonoscopy. Both happen from same location. — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) February 26, 2017 Does Mike Huckabee get his colonoscopies at the famed Kodak Theater in Hollywood? Please sign me up if that's the case, I'm told they have phenomenal seating and fancy bathrooms. And to be fair, colonoscopies get a bad rap — they're not nearly as painful as your MSM friends would have you believe. Which car accident is worse? Trump may be a car wreck, but at least his car is pointed in right direction.  Hillary is a drunk-driver going the wrong way on the freeway. — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) November 4, 2016 Forget politics for a second. I will go to my grave trying to understand the logic of this tweet. Doesn't a wrecked car (implying death, destruction) pose the same threat as a drunk driver who has yet to cause any damage? Where is this wrecked car positioned? The side of the road? The median? Why is Hillary drunk? Who let her drive? Perhaps we shouldn't appoint a flaming car wreck to be leader of the free world? Will these questions ever end? Will these thoughts? Will these tweets? WATCH: Indulge your fear of heights with China's latest glass bridge

Donald Trump's frequently misspelled tweets put the increasingly fragile world order at risk. Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee's, by contrast, pose a far greater danger: They threaten America's comedic leadership in a world increasingly dominated by "funny" reddit photoshops and bad homemade cat GIFS.

Huckabee might have failed to secure his party's nomination for president, but he's determined to stay relevant, no matter the cost to our Twitter feeds.

Take a look at his most recent round of tweets and how viral they've become. At first, they might seem impossible to interpret — Huckabee can be inscrutable, like a Jaden Smith of the American right.

But keep trying. There are jokes there — jokes that are often so deeply bizarre we loose the will to even embed them.

What's clearis that the right is undergoing a crisis in comedy. Remember when John McCain appeared on The Daily Show in 1999 and we laughed of our own free will? (Though, to be fair, early Steve Carrell might have had more to do with that than the presidential hopeful.)

Now all we've got for right-wing comedy is scrolling through Ann Coulter's Twitter feed while hoping in vain that she won't dog-whistle white supremacists, or praying that Trump calls Buzzfeed a "failing piece of garbage" again (honestly, that was pretty good).

So that leaves Mike Huckabee as the right's only hope — a hope that, sigh, is founded on colonoscopy jokes.

Here are some of his most viral/terrible tweets, along with our attempts at translation.

You're going with pork sausage? Really?

Breaking News! Jimmy Dean Sausage Co will be renamed GORSUCH SAUSAGE because he's grinding up some Democrat Senators into PURE PORK SAUSAGE! — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 21, 2017

During Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch's Senate confirmation hearing, Huckabee posted this tweet, which seemed to suggest both that Democrats depend on government pork and also that they had gone through a meat grinder.

Not only that, Huckabee seems to imply that Gorsuch himself had committed some kind of murder-suicide and heroically pushed himself through a meat grinder, only to come out a sausage himself?

So both Gorsuch and Democrats are now sausage, but Gorsuch is the higher quality Jimmy Dean sausage — a man good enough to eat. Or something.

Fake news — it's hilarious!

CNN launching its own social media platform to rival Zuckerburg's-Zucker vs. Zuckerburg. CNN will call their new site "FakeBook." — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 21, 2017

We've got to give credit to this joke. Sure, it's part of a larger campaign to discredit mainstream media sources and give the right full control of the information cycle but who cares: it's a joke. It's coherent and actually a little bit funny once you get past Huckabee's inability to spell Zuckerberg and weird use of a hyphen.

I Tweet for my amusement and your amazement. To haters trolls and humorless people-you really shouldn't follow me. It's way over your head! — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 21, 2017

Of course he followed that tweet with the one above, so let our earlier assessment be stricken from the record.

A Baha Men throwback is just never a good idea.

Poop Dogg has nephew named Bow Wow; both bad dogs who advocate murder and sex slavery for @POTUS and First Lady;Who let the dogs out? — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 17, 2017

"Who let the dogs out" was created by the Baha men, not "Poop Dogg." Of course, Huckabee has probably filed them both under "music I find threatening," so who can blame his confusion.

No.

At museum in Oslo—wasn't sure if this was Edward Munch's "The Scream" or Nancy Pelosi at Trump speech last week. pic.twitter.com/0ImsZr2kQz — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 5, 2017

Oh, dad.

Someone spring for Photoshop for Huckabee. Please, we're begging you.

Dems select ticket for 2020. A match made in Transylvania pic.twitter.com/iKLJxPTdVx — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 2, 2017

If there's one advantage the left has, it's this: graphic design.

Who was the poor intern forced to photoshop this photo and use comic sans un-ironically? How did they align the photos? Why did they use the Microsoft Paint on my parents' computer?

Yeah, no.

Choice: Trump or the Grump. the Don or the Con; a Winner or a Weiner; Swamp Drainer or Swamp Dweller; Take No Prisoners or Be a Prisoner? — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) November 5, 2016

Rhyming barely has a place in poetry, let alone Twitter or *shudders* my Twitter feed. Also, Huckabee endorsed a candidate whose campaign is currently under federal investigation for collusion with a foreign adversary all while calling his opponent a hot dog. So.

Why would you do this?

Breaking news from Hollywood! Sen. Chuck Schumer cast in lead role for remake of "Boys Don't Cry." — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) February 5, 2017

This movie is based on the true story of a teenager who is brutally murdered for being transgender.

This one's just nonsense masquerading as a sentence.

Dems poured out of the House Chamber as if someone flushed a commode. Where were they in such a hurry to go? Is there a sale at Penney's? — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 1, 2017

I assume he's referring to J.C. Penney, a chain that isn't exactly known for attracting hordes of Washington elites in search of a Jordache sale. But how fast does Huckabee think toilet water flows? How many people in his life run away terrified every time they hear a toilet flush?

I'm forced to approach this tweet like it's abstract art and not try to force "meaning" on it. I encourage you too to sit back and just enjoy the delightful J.C. Penney's reference.

Butt jokes — always classy.

Watch celebs spew ignorant political venom at Oscars?? Nah...think I'd rather have a colonoscopy. Both happen from same location. — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) February 26, 2017

Does Mike Huckabee get his colonoscopies at the famed Kodak Theater in Hollywood? Please sign me up if that's the case, I'm told they have phenomenal seating and fancy bathrooms.

And to be fair, colonoscopies get a bad rap — they're not nearly as painful as your MSM friends would have you believe.

Which car accident is worse?

Trump may be a car wreck, but at least his car is pointed in right direction. Hillary is a drunk-driver going the wrong way on the freeway. — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) November 4, 2016

Forget politics for a second. I will go to my grave trying to understand the logic of this tweet. Doesn't a wrecked car (implying death, destruction) pose the same threat as a drunk driver who has yet to cause any damage? Where is this wrecked car positioned? The side of the road? The median? Why is Hillary drunk? Who let her drive? Perhaps we shouldn't appoint a flaming car wreck to be leader of the free world? Will these questions ever end? Will these thoughts?

Will these tweets?