Former Teammates Drew Brees and Philip Rivers Watch Sons Play Flag Football
Former Teammates Drew Brees and Philip Rivers Watch Sons Play Flag Football
A photo posted by Drew Brees (@ drewbrees ) It's funny how things work out, eh? Drew Brees and Philip Rivers were once teammates on the San Diego Chargers. The "veteran" Brees—who entered the league in 2001—was the team's starting quarterback until Rivers (the No. 4 overall pick in 2004) had some time to adjust to the NFL . The Chargers ultimately turned to Rivers in 2006, allowing Brees to leave in free agency. Brees, of course, has flourished since signing with the New Orleans Saints. He has thrown for 4,300-plus yards in every season in the Big Easy and led the franchise to its first Super Bowl title in 2010. Rivers has thrown for 4,000-plus yards in eight out of his 10 seasons as a starter, but he has not appeared in a Super Bowl. Nowadays, the two Pro Bowl quarterbacks have kids old enough to play (flag) football in the San Diego area. And as fate would have it, the youngsters are opponents...just like their dads are now. Only time will tell if any of them will be the next big thing at quarterback. For now, Brees is proud that one of his kids is a playmaker: A photo posted by Drew Brees (@ drewbrees ) [ Drew Brees ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

It's funny how things work out, eh?

Drew Brees and Philip Rivers were once teammates on the San Diego Chargers. The "veteran" Brees—who entered the league in 2001—was the team's starting quarterback until Rivers (the No. 4 overall pick in 2004) had some time to adjust to the NFL.

The Chargers ultimately turned to Rivers in 2006, allowing Brees to leave in free agency.

Brees, of course, has flourished since signing with the New Orleans Saints. He has thrown for 4,300-plus yards in every season in the Big Easy and led the franchise to its first Super Bowl title in 2010. Rivers has thrown for 4,000-plus yards in eight out of his 10 seasons as a starter, but he has not appeared in a Super Bowl.

Nowadays, the two Pro Bowl quarterbacks have kids old enough to play (flag) football in the San Diego area. And as fate would have it, the youngsters are opponents...just like their dads are now.

Only time will tell if any of them will be the next big thing at quarterback. For now, Brees is proud that one of his kids is a playmaker:

[Drew Brees]