Rihanna Bringing Her Third Diamond Ball to New York
Rihanna Bringing Her Third Diamond Ball to New York
Rihanna Bringing Her Third Diamond Ball to New York  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The pop star's Clara Lionel Foundation supports underprivileged communities in health, education & art. After a hugely successful 2015 Diamond Ball , which raised over $3 million in donations for the Clara Lionel Foundation in Los Angeles, founder Rihanna has just announced the third gala. Rihanna founded the Clara Lionel Foundation -- named after her grandparents Clara and Lionel Braithwaite -- in 2012 with the goal to to support underprivileged communities in health, education and art. The foundation has since teamed up with fashion house Dior and was even recognized when Rihanna received Harvard University's Humanitarian Award.  The third annual Diamond Ball is set to go down Sept. 14 at New York City's Cipriani Wall Street.Â "New York always offers the perfect backdrop for an amazing event, which is why I am thrilled to have Diamond Ball there," Rihanna said in a release. "It's a great way to celebrate the Clara Lionel Foundation's accomplishments as well as bring awareness to our mission globally. I know it'll be a night to remember!" If it's anything like her previous benefits, the singer's third Diamond Ball is a guaranteed good time. Special hosts and speakers have included Brad Pitt and Kevin Hart and live performances from Lionel Richie and RiRi herself have made for memorable fundraising.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Rihanna attends the 2nd Annual Diamond Ball at The Barker Hangar on Dec. 10, 2015 in Santa Monica, Calif.

The pop star's Clara Lionel Foundation supports underprivileged communities in health, education & art.

After a hugely successful 2015 Diamond Ball, which raised over $3 million in donations for the Clara Lionel Foundation in Los Angeles, founder Rihanna has just announced the third gala.

Rihanna founded the Clara Lionel Foundation -- named after her grandparents Clara and Lionel Braithwaite -- in 2012 with the goal to to support underprivileged communities in health, education and art. The foundation has since teamed up with fashion house Dior and was even recognized when Rihanna received Harvard University's Humanitarian Award.

The third annual Diamond Ball is set to go down Sept. 14 at New York City's Cipriani Wall Street.Â

"New York always offers the perfect backdrop for an amazing event, which is why I am thrilled to have Diamond Ball there," Rihanna said in a release. "It's a great way to celebrate the Clara Lionel Foundation's accomplishments as well as bring awareness to our mission globally. I know it'll be a night to remember!"

If it's anything like her previous benefits, the singer's third Diamond Ball is a guaranteed good time. Special hosts and speakers have included Brad Pitt and Kevin Hart and live performances from Lionel Richie and RiRi herself have made for memorable fundraising.