Bill O'Reilly: Media's treatment of Maryland high school rape 'beyond anything I have ever seen'
Bill O'Reilly: Media's treatment of Maryland high school rape 'beyond anything I have ever seen'
Illegal Immigrants Bill O'Reilly: Media's treatment of Maryland high school rape 'beyond anything I have ever seen'   Fox News' Bill O'Reilly slammed the mainstream media on Wednesday's "The O'Reilly Factor" for ignoring the case of two immigrant teens, at least one of whom is in the U.S. illegally, accused of raping a Maryland high school student. "ABC, NBC, CBS did not cover it on their nightly news broadcasts," O'Reilly said in his "Talking Points Memo." "CNN did not cover the Maryland story in primetime last night. Ditto MSNBC. That is beyond anything I have ever seen in my 40 years-plus of journalism." "We all know why," O'Reilly said. "Illegal immigration is a political issue." The host went on to accuse the media of "allowing the sanctuary [city] movement to pretty much run wild" by opposing President Donald Trump's hardline immigration policies. O'Reilly warned that "many Americans have had enough of illegal immigration," saying that "the federal government has lost control over the immigration process, and ... many states and cities will not obey federal law, creating anarchy." "[There] comes a time when citizens of any country have to demand justice, have to demand protection, demand the law be respected," O'Reilly said. "We have not, have not, come to that time yet in America."

Fox News' Bill O'Reilly slammed the mainstream media on Wednesday's "The O'Reilly Factor" for ignoring the case of two immigrant teens, at least one of whom is in the U.S. illegally, accused of raping a Maryland high school student.

"ABC, NBC, CBS did not cover it on their nightly news broadcasts," O'Reilly said in his "Talking Points Memo." "CNN did not cover the Maryland story in primetime last night. Ditto MSNBC. That is beyond anything I have ever seen in my 40 years-plus of journalism."

PARENTS' EMOTIONS RAW IN WAKE OF RAPE AT MARYLAND HIGH SCHOOL

"We all know why," O'Reilly said. "Illegal immigration is a political issue." The host went on to accuse the media of "allowing the sanctuary [city] movement to pretty much run wild" by opposing President Donald Trump's hardline immigration policies.

O'Reilly warned that "many Americans have had enough of illegal immigration," saying that "the federal government has lost control over the immigration process, and ... many states and cities will not obey federal law, creating anarchy."

"[There] comes a time when citizens of any country have to demand justice, have to demand protection, demand the law be respected," O'Reilly said. "We have not, have not, come to that time yet in America."