London attack: How a lone knifeman brought terror to Westminster Bridge and the Houses of Parliament



London attack: How a lone knifeman brought terror to Westminster Bridge and the Houses of Parliament

Updated

Central London was plunged into chaos as a driver ran down pedestrians on Westminster Bridge before entering the grounds of the Houses of Parliament and stabbing a policeman to death.

At least five people died in the attack, including the assailant.

This is how events unfolded.

Warning: This story contains graphic images.

This article includes an interactive component which is not supported on this platform. For the full interactive experience in this article, you will need a modern web browser with JavaScript enabled. Find out more about browser support at ABC News Online.

Witnesses described how a car accelerated from the southern end of Westminster Bridge around 2:40pm local time and sped towards the Houses of Parliament and Big Ben.

Among those hit as the car mounted the pavement were a group of French schoolchildren and three policemen returning from an award ceremony.

At least one person was seen falling from the bridge into the River Thames.

The car sped past Big Ben and crashed into railings outside Parliament as police scrambled to the scene.

The driver pulled out a knife, climbed out of the car and entered the grounds of the Houses of Parliament.

A policeman who confronted him was stabbed in the struggle and later died of his injuries.

"A guy came past my right shoulder with a big knife and just started plunging it into the policeman," one witness said.

The attacker was shot dead as armed police moved in.

MP rushes to help dying man

Conservative MP Tobias Ellwood saw the stabbed policeman lying on the ground and tried to give him mouth to mouth resuscitation.

"I tried to stem the flow of blood and give mouth to mouth while waiting for the medics to arrive but I think he had lost too much blood," he told reporters afterwards.

Air ambulance flies in amid scenes of panic

With people fleeing in panic, the Houses of Parliament in lockdown, and bystanders taking refuge in nearby Westminster Abbey, an air ambulance flew in to treat the injured.

Topics: terrorism, england, united-kingdom

First posted