All This While You Were Doing It Wrong, Please Don't Mix Your Alcohol With Energy Drinks
All This While You Were Doing It Wrong, Please Don't Mix Your Alcohol With Energy Drinks
All This While You Were Doing It Wrong, Please Don't Mix Your Alcohol With Energy Drinks This is quite common to see people mixing alcohol with energy drinks but very few know that such mix can be toxic. Studies showed evidence of a link between drinking alcohol mixed with energy drinks and an increased risk of injury compared to drinking alcohol only. It may not be such a great idea to add some Red Bull to your vodka. New research suggests that mixing alcohol with highly caffeinated energy drinks could be increasing the risk of falls and injury. A team from the University of Victoria’s Centre for Addictions Research of BC (CARBC) in Canada looked at 13 studies on the topic of alcohol and energy drinks published from 1981 to 2016. From the 13 studies that fit the criteria, 10 showed evidence of a link between drinking alcohol mixed with energy drinks (AmED) and an increased risk of injury compared to drinking alcohol only. The study included both unintentional injuries such as falls or car accidents and intentional such as fights or other types of physical violence. According to the researchers, AmED use is increasingly popular across North America, with mixing a Red Bull and vodka being a common example. These types of beverages can also be bought as premixed drinks from liquor stores. Explaining the findings, lead study author Audra Roemer, M.Sc. said, “The stimulant effects of caffeine mask the result that most people get when they drink. Usually when you’re drinking alcohol, you get tired and you go home. Energy drinks mask that, so people may underestimate how intoxicated they are, end up staying out later, consume more alcohol, and engage in risky behavior and more hazardous drinking practices.” The study also looked at whether risk-taking or sensation-seeking personality traits could also increase the risk of injuries when drinking alcohol mixed with energy drinks.  However, Roemer did point out that there is a lack of research in this area, and wide variability in the studies analysed. More research is now needed in order to confirm the team’s findings, with Roemer adding that, “Hopefully that will bring more answers. The research we’ve done so far points to an increased risk of injuries with the use of AmED that could be a serious public health concern.”

This is quite common to see people mixing alcohol with energy drinks but very few know that such mix can be toxic.

Studies showed evidence of a link between drinking alcohol mixed with energy drinks and an increased risk of injury compared to drinking alcohol only. It may not be such a great idea to add some Red Bull to your vodka. New research suggests that mixing alcohol with highly caffeinated energy drinks could be increasing the risk of falls and injury.

thechive.files.wordpress.com

A team from the University of Victoria’s Centre for Addictions Research of BC (CARBC) in Canada looked at 13 studies on the topic of alcohol and energy drinks published from 1981 to 2016. From the 13 studies that fit the criteria, 10 showed evidence of a link between drinking alcohol mixed with energy drinks (AmED) and an increased risk of injury compared to drinking alcohol only. The study included both unintentional injuries such as falls or car accidents and intentional such as fights or other types of physical violence.

According to the researchers, AmED use is increasingly popular across North America, with mixing a Red Bull and vodka being a common example. These types of beverages can also be bought as premixed drinks from liquor stores.

s.yimg.com

Explaining the findings, lead study author Audra Roemer, M.Sc. said, “The stimulant effects of caffeine mask the result that most people get when they drink. Usually when you’re drinking alcohol, you get tired and you go home. Energy drinks mask that, so people may underestimate how intoxicated they are, end up staying out later, consume more alcohol, and engage in risky behavior and more hazardous drinking practices.”

The study also looked at whether risk-taking or sensation-seeking personality traits could also increase the risk of injuries when drinking alcohol mixed with energy drinks. However, Roemer did point out that there is a lack of research in this area, and wide variability in the studies analysed.

ste.india.com

More research is now needed in order to confirm the team’s findings, with Roemer adding that, “Hopefully that will bring more answers. The research we’ve done so far points to an increased risk of injuries with the use of AmED that could be a serious public health concern.”

Don't Miss 721 SHARES 46 K SHARES 10.5 K SHARES 3.5 K SHARES 1.2 K SHARES

The results can be found published in the Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs.

With Inputs From AFP