William Shatner Urges Fans Not to Vote for Nick Viall on 'DWTS' -- See the Former Bachelor's Response!
William Shatner Urges Fans Not to Vote for Nick Viall on 'DWTS' -- See the Former Bachelor's Response!
It looks like Nick Viall has made an unexpected enemy. William Shatner took to Twitter during this week's premiere of to urge his fans not to vote for the former star. "My goal for #DWTS is to knock Bachelor Nick out ASAP. Who is with me?" Shatner began. "Whoever your favorite is – just not Nick – make the 10 phone calls for them… How do we get #BachelorNation to not vote for Nick?" My goal for #DWTS is to knock Bachelor Nick out ASAP. Who is with me? 👍🏻😏 Whoever your favorite is - just not Nick- make the 10 phone calls for them. https://t.co/4OKy55HF7T How do we get #BachelorNation to not vote for Nick? 🤔 As fans began to offer other solutions, Shatner quickly replied, "No! He needs to go next week." When one commenter asked why Shatner had such a dislike for Viall, the actor replied, "He lives up to the homonym of his last name," and told another fan, "Watch Andi's Bachelorette Season where he started this Viall journey." As others came to Viall's defense, Shatner continued, writing, "Leopards don't change their spots. Don't be surprised if he shows up again on paradise. I won't be." @WilliamShatner 😞 @PetaMurgatroyd Peta, you know I love you. 💕 Congratulations on becoming a mommy. Just can't cheer you on this season. Love to Maks & Shia. Viall himself responded to the intense campaign with a simple sad face emoji. His partner, Peta Murgatroyd also tweeted to Shatner with crying face emojis, to which he replied, "Peta, you know I love you. Congratulations on becoming a mommy. Just can't cheer you on this season. Love to Maks & Shia." Shatner has not fully explained his dislike for Viall, and the reality star did not have the lowest score of the night, so he could be sticking around for at least another week. For more from the premiere, watch the clip below! Hollywood's Best Bikini Bods Over 40 Biggest Celebrity Breakups of 2017 - So Far! Celebrities in Their Underwear

It looks like Nick Viall has made an unexpected enemy. William Shatner took to Twitter during this week's premiere of Dancing With the Stars to urge his fans not to vote for the former Bachelor star.



WATCH: EXCLUSIVE: Peta Murgatroyd and Nick Viall Get Candid About Double Dating and the 'Great Energy' on 'DWTS'



"My goal for #DWTS is to knock Bachelor Nick out ASAP. Who is with me?" Shatner began. "Whoever your favorite is – just not Nick – make the 10 phone calls for them… How do we get #BachelorNation to not vote for Nick?"

My goal for #DWTS is to knock Bachelor Nick out ASAP. Who is with me? 👍🏻😏

— William Shatner (@WilliamShatner) March 20, 2017

Whoever your favorite is - just not Nick- make the 10 phone calls for them. https://t.co/4OKy55HF7T

— William Shatner (@WilliamShatner) March 20, 2017

How do we get #BachelorNation to not vote for Nick? 🤔

— William Shatner (@WilliamShatner) March 20, 2017

As fans began to offer other solutions, Shatner quickly replied, "No! He needs to go next week."



When one commenter asked why Shatner had such a dislike for Viall, the actor replied, "He lives up to the homonym of his last name," and told another fan, "Watch Andi's Bachelorette Season where he started this Viall journey."



As others came to Viall's defense, Shatner continued, writing, "Leopards don't change their spots. Don't be surprised if he shows up again on paradise. I won't be."

@PetaMurgatroyd Peta, you know I love you. 💕 Congratulations on becoming a mommy. Just can't cheer you on this season. Love to Maks & Shia.

— William Shatner (@WilliamShatner) March 21, 2017

MORE: Nick Viall's Fiancee Vanessa Grimaldi Responds to Criticism That Their 'After the Final Rose' Special Was Awkward



Viall himself responded to the intense campaign with a simple sad face emoji. His DWTS partner, Peta Murgatroyd also tweeted to Shatner with crying face emojis, to which he replied, "Peta, you know I love you. Congratulations on becoming a mommy. Just can't cheer you on this season. Love to Maks & Shia."



Shatner has not fully explained his dislike for Viall, and the reality star did not have the lowest score of the night, so he could be sticking around for at least another week. For more from the premiere, watch the clip below!

Watch Entertainment Tonight on Yahoo View, available now on iOS and Android.

Related Articles