Kith and Aimé Leon Dore Channel the Island of Mykonos in Their New Collaboration
Kith and Aimé Leon Dore Channel the Island of Mykonos in Their New Collaboration 
Whenever Kith and Aimé Leon Dore link up , you know it’s going to be good. The NYC brands continue their ongoing partnership this season with a new collection that channels Mykonos, Greece. Together, Kith’s Ronnie Fieg and ALD’s Teddy Santis traveled to the Mediterranean island and were immediately inspired by its architecture, natural landscape, and overall culture. The final result? A collection of season essentials dominated by blue hues, as well as clean graphics and patterns. The range of pieces—such as hoodies, tees, pullover sailing jackets, pants, and caps—are presented with a nautical theme as well as cultural iconography, like anchors, boat paddles, and evil eye graphics. Related Here's a Sneak Peek at the Upcoming KITH x Aimé Leon Dore Collaboration Here's a Full Look at the Aimé Leon Dore x KITH "Chapter 1" Collection Kith and Aimé Leon Dore Team Up on New Miami-Inspired Capsule Collection You can check out the collection’s campaign below. The Kith x Aimé Leon Dore Mykonos collection will drop this Friday at Kith locations as well as Kith’s online store . The Mykonos collection comes about a week after Kith unveiled its OFF-PALETTE collaboration with Virgil Abloh’s Off-White. The capsule's clothing items have since sold out, which means there's a good chance this Mykonos range will also fly off the shelves. If you like what you see, we suggest you act fast on Friday.

Whenever Kith and Aimé Leon Dore link up, you know it’s going to be good.

The NYC brands continue their ongoing partnership this season with a new collection that channels Mykonos, Greece. Together, Kith’s Ronnie Fieg and ALD’s Teddy Santis traveled to the Mediterranean island and were immediately inspired by its architecture, natural landscape, and overall culture. The final result? A collection of season essentials dominated by blue hues, as well as clean graphics and patterns.

The range of pieces—such as hoodies, tees, pullover sailing jackets, pants, and caps—are presented with a nautical theme as well as cultural iconography, like anchors, boat paddles, and evil eye graphics.

You can check out the collection’s campaign below. The Kith x Aimé Leon Dore Mykonos collection will drop this Friday at Kith locations as well as Kith’s online store.

The Mykonos collection comes about a week after Kith unveiled its OFF-PALETTE collaboration with Virgil Abloh’s Off-White. The capsule's clothing items have since sold out, which means there's a good chance this Mykonos range will also fly off the shelves. If you like what you see, we suggest you act fast on Friday.