U.K. Parliament Attacker Leaves 3 Dead, Including Police Officer
U.K. Parliament Attacker Leaves 3 Dead, Including Police Officer
Biography Jenny Gross @jgginlondon Biography Stu Woo @stuwoo facebook.com/stuwoo Stu.Woo@wsj.com Biography Wiktor Szary @wiktorszary wiktor.szary@wsj.com LONDON—A suspected Islamist terrorist mowed down pedestrians on a crowded bridge before crashing his car near the gates of Parliament and stabbing a policeman, leaving three dead in an attack that struck at the heart of British democracy. The attacker was shot to death, authorities said, and 40 people were injured in the most serious act of terror in the U.K. since 2005, when coordinated bombings by Islamist extremists on buses and... Most Popular Videos  Medicaid Work Requirement Added to GOP Health Bill  Three Sources of Geopolitical Stress  Trump Wiretapping Investigation Gets Complicated   At Least 4 Dead After Terror Attack Near U.K. Parliament    'Empire' Star Taraji P. Henson Won't Be Cookie Forever  Most Popular Articles      Opinion: A President’s Credibility        Lawyer for Russian Whistleblower’s Family Falls Out of Window        Opinion: Leakgate Finds Its Joe McCarthy        GOP Lawmaker Sparks New Battle Over Trump Spy Claim        U.K. Parliament Attacker Leaves 3 Dead, Including Police Officer

A car slammed into pedestrians near the U.K. Parliament, leaving at least four people dead and 40 injured. Police, who are treating the incident as a terrorist attack, shot dead the man believed to be the attacker. (Photo: Niki Blasina/The Wall Street Journal)

LONDON—A suspected Islamist terrorist mowed down pedestrians on a crowded bridge before crashing his car near the gates of Parliament and stabbing a policeman, leaving three dead in an attack that struck at the heart of British democracy.

The attacker was shot to death, authorities said, and 40 people were injured in the most serious act of terror in the U.K. since 2005, when coordinated bombings by Islamist extremists on buses and...