Dave Chappelle Opens Up About His Friendship With Prince: ‘He Was Real Kind to Me’
Dave Chappelle Opens Up About His Friendship With Prince: ‘He Was Real Kind to Me’
The “Raspberry Beret” singer was also kind to Chappelle’s sister, who was the first person in his family to own a Prince record attend a live performance by the Grammy-winning artist. She even was given a guitar pick by the performer! “My sister was a bigger girl — she was chubby — and this meant the world to her, that he paid that kind of attention.” Years later, when Chappelle was backstage at a Prince show (with Anderson Cooper), Dave couldn’t resist stealing a handful of guitar picks. “The guitar picks meant a lot to me because they were the first physical trace of him,” he said.

Prince had a lot of fans, but Dave Chappelle was one of the lucky ones who actually forged a friendship with the music superstar. During an interview with CBS This Morning co-host Gayle King, the comedian opened up about his connection with the Purple One.

“He was real kind to me,” shared Chappelle.

The “Raspberry Beret” singer was also kind to Chappelle’s sister, who was the first person in his family to own a Prince record and attend a live performance by the Grammy-winning artist. She even was given a guitar pick by the performer! “My sister was a bigger girl — she was chubby — and this meant the world to her, that he paid that kind of attention.”

Years later, when Chappelle was backstage at a Prince show (with Anderson Cooper), Dave couldn’t resist stealing a handful of guitar picks. “The guitar picks meant a lot to me because they were the first physical trace of him,” he said.

In 2004, Chappelle portrayed Prince in a hilarious comedy sketch on Chappelle’s Show, where Eddie Murphy’s brother, Charlie, recalled the time Prince made him pancakes after schooling in him a basketball game. Prince liked the skit so much, he returned the favor and put Chappelle on the cover of his 2013 single “Breakfast Can Wait.”

Chappelle’s Show came to an end in 2005 after the funnyman walked away from a $50 million deal with Comedy Central.

Following a decade-long hiatus from the business, Chappelle is slowly making a comeback and now has three specials with Netflix.

Dave Chappelle shows up at a small-town council meeting and talks police reform:

Read more from Yahoo Celebrity: