The Evolution of GFriend's Uniform Style: From Gym Clothes to Military Chic
The Evolution of GFriend's Uniform Style: From Gym Clothes to Military Chic
The Evolution of GFriend's Uniform Style: From Gym Clothes to Military Chic  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Upon debutingÂ at the top of 2015, GFriend Â brought a refreshing change to the K-pop scene, not only with their throwback sonic style but alsoÂ aÂ visual one. Among theÂ sexy girl groupsÂ concepts that were the trend of the moment, the sextetÂ came out with an innocent, school uniform-inspired look that signaled a fresh new group was ready to take over. Despite not coming from a well-known Korean agency -- Source Music was largely unknown until GFriend began racking up hits -- the girl group has snagged a remarkable run of hits, coinciding with their latestÂ EP, ,Â scoring the act their best showing on the charts yet. With their new single "Fingertip"Â showcasing another step in their evolution, investigatesÂ not only GFriend's musical evolution but also how their style tells an additional story.  With their debut single, GFriendÂ wasÂ introduced with their matching schoolgirl uniforms -- the norm in their native South Korea. The looks are very simple with matching monochrome shirts and skirts, along with many scenes where the group wears very simple gym clothes. The color scheme is very safe with the girls typically wearingÂ white T-shirts or blouses with simple blue or yellow skirts, orÂ their red gym shorts. The feel is very young and innocent, as if these girls are literally being plucked from gym class -- arguably, the school class where kids can truly be kids. For their introduction to the world, GFriend was about showing a unified, adolescent feel. GFriend dropped "Me Gustas Tu" in the middle of July toÂ showÂ a uniformed take on summer style. There aren'tÂ school uniforms during summer vacation, but the girls' most impactful looks are very consistent,Â wearing the same mint-green dresses and sailor-girl getups for group choreography scenes. There are moments the girls wear individual outfits, but they are in garbÂ that mostly all stay in the same color family and don't tell much about the person inside them.Â While some members wear rompers and some wear sun dresses, and the colors vary a bitÂ at times, but ultimately there is still a collective, uniform feel despite it being the summertime.  It was once again school time for GFriendÂ and they're back in their school uniforms but with a few twists. Their clothes are much more intricate this time with the ladies' uniforms boastingÂ dressyÂ ties, monogrammed blouses and formal socks -- a stark difference from their white tees in "Glass Bead." While most of the looks are identical, the video does open with the girls rocking school uniforms where we see a handful of uniqueÂ touches, likeÂ YerinÂ wearing a polka-dotted cardigan over her outfitÂ while youngest member Umji is wrappedÂ in a simple gray jacket. "Rough" is mostly still all about the uniform with the song itself not straying too far from the sound of "Glass Bead" or "Me Gustas Tu,"Â but weÂ are starting to see more obvious touches of GFriend'sÂ individual styleÂ here.Â Like clockwork, GFriend was back for another July singleÂ but 2016's "Navillera" was a style and sonic breakthrough. Finally, each girl was given an individual look.Â All the members'Â skirts were different colors and their tops varied fromÂ three quarter-length tees to traditional T-shirts. We even saw GFriend experimenting with their hairstyles with fun side ponytails and bob cuts.Â There were focal, fashion points that tiedÂ their attire together -- similar shoes, blue jean shorts, and one uniformed baby-blue dress -- but ultimately each girl shined on her own with the same youthful energy of their past visuals.Â Appropriately, "Navillera" was also the band's most experimental single to date with high-energy blasts of electronicaÂ incorporatedÂ into their signature, synth-y production. For their boldest single yet, GFriend showcased just how far they canÂ takeÂ their uniform concept. The main outfits of the visual see the band rocking chic, military-inspired ensemblesÂ and stylish camouflaged skirts that remains uniform in look, but speak to being much more grown-up -- the army isn't a place for little girls. For the first time, each girlÂ has a unique storyline in the video with all boastingÂ a cosmic theme to tie her story together.Â We also see GFriend experimenting even more with their hairdos via fun extensions andÂ honey-blonde dyes. Like "Navillera," the "Fingertip" comeback was an evenÂ punchierÂ and intense sound for the girl group, incorporating some '80s funk into the mix,Â but still keeping to their nostalgicÂ sound.  Similar to how the beloved Wonder Girls always boasted a "throwback" concept -- which saw them try out everything from Motown vibesÂ to '80s stylingÂ -- using GFriend's uniformed conceptÂ a base has loads of potential toÂ successfully inspire and influence the group's future work. WhileÂ GFriend'sÂ uniformity is undoubtedlyÂ strong,Â how the group is playing with this concept to showcase its members personalities and helpÂ inform theÂ musicÂ warrants,Â and should continue to warrant,Â a closer a look in the continuing evolution of a K-pop act with a purpose andÂ ongoing story.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Upon debutingÂ at the top of 2015, GFriendÂ brought a refreshing change to the K-pop scene, not only with their throwback sonic style but alsoÂ aÂ visual one. Among theÂ sexy girl groupsÂ concepts that were the trend of the moment, the sextetÂ came out with an innocent, school uniform-inspired look that signaled a fresh new group was ready to take over. Despite not coming from a well-known Korean agency -- Source Music was largely unknown until GFriend began racking up hits -- the girl group has snagged a remarkable run of hits, coinciding with their latestÂ EP, The Awakening,Â scoring the act their best showing on the Billboard charts yet.

With their new single "Fingertip"Â showcasing another step in their evolution, BillboardÂ investigatesÂ not only GFriend's musical evolution but also how their style tells an additional story.

January 15, 2015: "Glass Bead"

With their debut single, GFriendÂ wasÂ introduced with their matching schoolgirl uniforms -- the norm in their native South Korea. The looks are very simple with matching monochrome shirts and skirts, along with many scenes where the group wears very simple gym clothes. The color scheme is very safe with the girls typically wearingÂ white T-shirts or blouses with simple blue or yellow skirts, orÂ their red gym shorts. The feel is very young and innocent, as if these girls are literally being plucked from gym class -- arguably, the school class where kids can truly be kids. For their introduction to the world, GFriend was about showing a unified, adolescent feel.

July 23, 2015: "Me Gustas Tu"

GFriend dropped "Me Gustas Tu" in the middle of July toÂ showÂ a uniformed take on summer style. There aren'tÂ school uniforms during summer vacation, but the girls' most impactful looks are very consistent,Â wearing the same mint-green dresses and sailor-girl getups for group choreography scenes. There are moments the girls wear individual outfits, but they are in garbÂ that mostly all stay in the same color family and don't tell much about the person inside them.Â While some members wear rompers and some wear sun dresses, and the colors vary a bitÂ at times, but ultimately there is still a collective, uniform feel despite it being the summertime.

January 25, 2016: "Rough"

It was once again school time for GFriendÂ and they're back in their school uniforms but with a few twists. Their clothes are much more intricate this time with the ladies' uniforms boastingÂ dressyÂ ties, monogrammed blouses and formal socks -- a stark difference from their white tees in "Glass Bead." While most of the looks are identical, the video does open with the girls rocking school uniforms where we see a handful of uniqueÂ touches, likeÂ YerinÂ wearing a polka-dotted cardigan over her outfitÂ while youngest member Umji is wrappedÂ in a simple gray jacket. "Rough" is mostly still all about the uniform with the song itself not straying too far from the sound of "Glass Bead" or "Me Gustas Tu,"Â but weÂ are starting to see more obvious touches of GFriend'sÂ individual styleÂ here.Â

July 11, 2016: "Navillera"

Like clockwork, GFriend was back for another July singleÂ but 2016's "Navillera" was a style and sonic breakthrough. Finally, each girl was given an individual look.Â All the members'Â skirts were different colors and their tops varied fromÂ three quarter-length tees to traditional T-shirts. We even saw GFriend experimenting with their hairstyles with fun side ponytails and bob cuts.Â There were focal, fashion points that tiedÂ their attire together -- similar shoes, blue jean shorts, and one uniformed baby-blue dress -- but ultimately each girl shined on her own with the same youthful energy of their past visuals.Â Appropriately, "Navillera" was also the band's most experimental single to date with high-energy blasts of electronicaÂ incorporatedÂ into their signature, synth-y production.

March 6, 2017: "Fingertip"

For their boldest single yet, GFriend showcased just how far they canÂ takeÂ their uniform concept. The main outfits of the visual see the band rocking chic, military-inspired ensemblesÂ and stylish camouflaged skirts that remains uniform in look, but speak to being much more grown-up -- the army isn't a place for little girls. For the first time, each girlÂ has a unique storyline in the video with all boastingÂ a cosmic theme to tie her story together.Â We also see GFriend experimenting even more with their hairdos via fun extensions andÂ honey-blonde dyes. Like "Navillera," the "Fingertip" comeback was an evenÂ punchierÂ and intense sound for the girl group, incorporating some '80s funk into the mix,Â but still keeping to their nostalgicÂ sound.

Similar to how the beloved Wonder Girls always boasted a "throwback" concept -- which saw them try out everything from Motown vibesÂ to '80s stylingÂ -- using GFriend's uniformed conceptÂ a base has loads of potential toÂ successfully inspire and influence the group's future work. WhileÂ GFriend'sÂ uniformity is undoubtedlyÂ strong,Â how the group is playing with this concept to showcase its members personalities and helpÂ inform theÂ musicÂ warrants,Â and should continue to warrant,Â a closer a look in the continuing evolution of a K-pop act with a purpose andÂ ongoing story.