Brie Larson To Play First Woman To Run For President
Brie Larson To Play First Woman To Run For President
Brie Larson is making history. The Oscar -winning actress will reportedly play Victoria Woodhull , the United States’ first female presidential candidate, in a biopic of the same name. Amazon Studios acquired the film project on which Larson will also serve as a producer , Deadline reported Wednesday. Woodhull ran for presidency on the Equal Rights Party ticket in 1872, decades before women could even vote, according to Biography.com. A suffragist who fought for women’s rights on many fronts, Woodhull also published a journal with her sister to promote social reform and founded the first woman-run stock brokerage. Larson, 27, has publicly advocated for women’s rights as her film career has blossomed. She previously portrayed female empowerment in a different mode as a kidnapping and rape survivor in 2015’s “Room,” which won her a best actress Academy Award. She enjoyed box office success this year in “Kong: Skull Island.” The Hollywood Reporter noted that Larson is also set to play Captain Marvel in a 2019 Disney and Marvel movie. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Oscars 2017 Ceremony       Share this slide:       MORE:

Brie Larson is making history.

The Oscar-winning actress will reportedly play Victoria Woodhull, the United States’ first female presidential candidate, in a biopic of the same name.

Amazon Studios acquired the film project on which Larson will also serve as a producer, Deadline reported Wednesday.

Woodhull ran for presidency on the Equal Rights Party ticket in 1872, decades before women could even vote, according to Biography.com. A suffragist who fought for women’s rights on many fronts, Woodhull also published a journal with her sister to promote social reform and founded the first woman-run stock brokerage.

Bettmann via Getty Images Victoria Woodhull ran on the Equal Rights Party ticket in 1872.

Larson, 27, has publicly advocated for women’s rights as her film career has blossomed.

She previously portrayed female empowerment in a different mode as a kidnapping and rape survivor in 2015’s “Room,” which won her a best actress Academy Award. She enjoyed box office success this year in “Kong: Skull Island.”