Trump lawyers ask court to move quickly on travel ban appeal
Trump lawyers ask court to move quickly on travel ban appeal
Shares                Donald Trump's administration is asking a U.S. court to quickly hear its appeal of a ruling that blocked the president's revised travel ban. Lawyers for the president filed a brief with the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Virginia on Wednesday. In it, they argue that the matter is one of national importance and should be reviewed as soon as possible. They want the court to set an expedited schedule for filing briefs and to hold oral arguments at the earliest opportunity after those are filed. Courts in Maryland and Hawaii earlier this month blocked the revised ban, which would temporarily ban travel to the U.S. from six predominantly Muslim countries. The ruling was a victory for immigrant advocates and civil liberties groups, which claimed the ban violated the Constitution. Shares                  Trump lawyers ask court to move quickly on travel ban appeal   Police identify suspected London attacker as UK native   Parents charged after leaving baby in parking lot   US new home sales rise despite higher mortgage rates   Israeli-American arrested over threats to Jewish centers   A winner in GOP plans to repeal Obamacare: Tanning salons   17,000 AT&T workers will come back on the job Thursday   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   Little girl from Atlanta snatches pope's skullcap   WWII veteran surprised on 100th birthday   Apple cuts prices on lower-end iPads, releases red iPhones   Baby boy desperately tries to nap on his big, fluffy goldendoodle   Babies born 18 hours apart in same hospital coincidentally named Romeo and Juliet   'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory' preparing for Broadway debut   Teen EMT delivers her 1st baby, born 2 weeks early, in couple's bedroom   Chicago cop faces new charges in shooting of black teen   Former Russian lawmaker shot dead in Ukraine   Teen gets bionic legs after being born unable to walk   Let there be light: German scientists test 'artificial sun'   Northern Ireland bids farewell to ex-IRA chief McGuinness   Taliban take key Afghan district in south; 9 killed in north   Accused kidnapper may have watched TV show about living off the grid   Timeline of ex-teacher's alleged kidnapping of Tennessee student   Teacher researched 'teen marriage' before kidnapping: Police   Man arrested after abducted woman escapes from trunk   US combat airlift marks deepening involvement in Syria   Princess Kate talks motherhood, London terror attack   Kristi Yamaguchi tweets 'break a leg' to Nancy Kerrigan   Selena Gomez explains how online bullying affects her   Inside Chrissy Teigen and John Legend's vacation in Morocco   'Wheel of Fortune' contestant makes a racy mistake

Donald Trump's administration is asking a U.S. court to quickly hear its appeal of a ruling that blocked the president's revised travel ban.

Lawyers for the president filed a brief with the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Virginia on Wednesday. In it, they argue that the matter is one of national importance and should be reviewed as soon as possible.

They want the court to set an expedited schedule for filing briefs and to hold oral arguments at the earliest opportunity after those are filed.

Courts in Maryland and Hawaii earlier this month blocked the revised ban, which would temporarily ban travel to the U.S. from six predominantly Muslim countries.

The ruling was a victory for immigrant advocates and civil liberties groups, which claimed the ban violated the Constitution.