Mike Will Made-It Links With Kendrick Lamar, Gucci Mane And Rae Sremmurd For "Perfect Pint"
Mike Will Made-It Links With Kendrick Lamar, Gucci Mane And Rae Sremmurd For "Perfect Pint"
Originally published on Complex Just hours after Kendrick Lamar seemingly teased his fourth album on Instagram, Mike Will Made-It premiered his anticipated Kendrick collab "Perfect Pint" on Zane Lowe's Beats 1 show. The track also features contributions from Gucci Mane and Rae Sremmurd . NEW @MikeWiLLMadeIt  @RaeSremmurd  @gucci1017  @kendricklamar 'Perfect Pint' NOW #RANSOM2 The track showcases a spacey and nostalgic chorus from Sremmurd and a strong Gucci pop-in, though Kendrick's verse—which may or may not be a sign that Kendrick Season is in full swing—will likely garner the bulk of discussion. "2017 onto bigger things," Kendrick raps. Later, Kendrick says: "Everybody a Crip 'til they black and blue, everybody a Blood 'til they're hemorrhaging." Stream it below via : With any luck, Mike Will's recent Instagram posts mean we'll be getting a new Ransom 2 video (maybe for "Perfect Pint"?) soon: Comment if you're ready for my new song #perfectpints 🍼 📸: @mylesxharris A post shared by Mike WiLL Made It (@mikewillmadeit) on Mar 22, 2017 at 8:43am PDT Mike Will has been teasing his follow-up to the 2014 tape with a plethora of new collabs. This month alone, the EarDrummers founder has released new tracks with Pharrell Williams , Future, Chief Keef, and Lil Yachty. , at 17 tracks strong, also features appearances from Big Sean, Young Thug, 21 Savage, 2 Chains, and Rihanna. is available Friday.

Just hours after Kendrick Lamar seemingly teased his fourth album on Instagram, Mike Will Made-It premiered his anticipated Kendrick collab "Perfect Pint" on Zane Lowe's Beats 1 show. The Ransom 2 track also features contributions from Gucci Mane and Rae Sremmurd.

The track showcases a spacey and nostalgic chorus from Sremmurd and a strong Gucci pop-in, though Kendrick's verse—which may or may not be a sign that Kendrick Season is in full swing—will likely garner the bulk of discussion. "2017 onto bigger things," Kendrick raps. Later, Kendrick says: "Everybody a Crip 'til they black and blue, everybody a Blood 'til they're hemorrhaging." Stream it below via New Hip Hop Song:

With any luck, Mike Will's recent Instagram posts mean we'll be getting a new Ransom 2 video (maybe for "Perfect Pint"?) soon:

Comment if you're ready for my new song #perfectpints 🍼 📸: @mylesxharris A post shared by Mike WiLL Made It (@mikewillmadeit) on Mar 22, 2017 at 8:43am PDT

Mike Will has been teasing his follow-up to the 2014 Ransom tape with a plethora of new collabs. This month alone, the EarDrummers founder has released new tracks with Pharrell Williams, Future, Chief Keef, and Lil Yachty. Ransom 2, at 17 tracks strong, also features appearances from Big Sean, Young Thug, 21 Savage, 2 Chains, and Rihanna.

Ransom 2 is available Friday.