Beyoncé FaceTimes with teenage cancer patient in touching video
Beyoncé FaceTimes with teenage cancer patient in touching video
Beyoncé fulfilled the wish of a teenager with cancer by surprising her with a FaceTime phone call. Ebony Banks, a senior high school student at Alief Hastings High School in Houston, Texas, has a rare form of stage four cancer. Knowing that her dream was to meet Beyoncé, Ebony's friends set up a social media campaign using the hastag #EBOBMEETSBEYONCE in the hope of attracting the singer's attention. Beyoncé facetiming with Ebony, a fan with a rare cancer disease whose wish was to meet Beyoncé 😭😭🤧❤️ ------------------------------------------------ "High school student Ebony Banks, who has stage four cancer, had her dream came true Wednesday when she received a FaceTime call from her hero, Beyoncé. Banks — who attends Alief Hastings High School in Houston, Texas — has spent most of her senior year at MD Anderson Cancer Center fighting a rare stage four cancer, according to KIAH, a local news station. Earlier this month, the school district held a special early graduation ceremony for Banks, whose nickname is “Ebob,” in the hospital. And as the ultimate graduation present, Banks’ friends and classmates created the hashtag #EBOBMEETSBEYONCE on social media so that she could meet with Beyoncé in an effort to help make one of her biggest dreams come true." "Beyonce is one of her idols. She admires her so much, so we're trying to put that on Twitter and Instagram to get Beyonce's attention," said Gutierrez. --------------------------------------------------God Bless you, Ebony! We're praying for you beautiful! #BeyHive 🐝🙏🏽 A post shared by Beyoncé (@beylite) on "Beyoncé is one of her idols," fellow student Karina Gutierrez told local affiliate at the time. "She admires her so much, so we're trying to put that on Twitter and Instagram to get [her] attention. "We love Ebony. You don't really know what can happen with cancer. You don't know if it's going to go away or come back. It's a scary thought." Read more Be inspired by our International Women's Day playlist Coachella finds its last minute Beyoncé replacement The little known side effect of chemotherapy that no-one talks about A few days after the hashtag trended, the artist, who is currently expecting twins with husband Jay Z, surprised the student with the call. In a heartwarming exchange that appeared on Beyoncé fan pages, Ebony is seen lying in a hospital bed saying "I love you dancing" to which the artist replies: "I love you." The school's social media account tweeted: "Thank you to everyone who helped #ebobmeetsbeyonce @Beyonce." More about: Beyonce Jay Z Cancer Pregnancy Comments

Beyoncé fulfilled the wish of a teenager with cancer by surprising her with a FaceTime phone call.

Ebony Banks, a senior high school student at Alief Hastings High School in Houston, Texas, has a rare form of stage four cancer.

Knowing that her dream was to meet Beyoncé, Ebony's friends set up a social media campaign using the hastag #EBOBMEETSBEYONCE in the hope of attracting the singer's attention.

"Beyoncé is one of her idols," fellow student Karina Gutierrez told local ABC affiliate KTRK-TV at the time. "She admires her so much, so we're trying to put that on Twitter and Instagram to get [her] attention.

Ebony (whose friends call her Ebob ) has a rare form of stage four cancer (Twitter/Christine Dobbyn )

"We love Ebony. You don't really know what can happen with cancer. You don't know if it's going to go away or come back. It's a scary thought."

A few days after the hashtag trended, the Formation artist, who is currently expecting twins with husband Jay Z, surprised the student with the call.

In a heartwarming exchange that appeared on Beyoncé fan pages, Ebony is seen lying in a hospital bed saying "I love you dancing" to which the artist replies: "I love you."

The school's social media account tweeted: "Thank you to everyone who helped #ebobmeetsbeyonce @Beyonce."