TONIGHT on 'Hannity': Devin Nunes Discusses Explosive Surveillance Revelations

TONIGHT on 'Hannity': Devin Nunes Discusses Explosive Surveillance Revelations // A day after his bombshell revelations about "incidental" surveillance of President Donald Trump's associates, Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) will join Sean Hannity for a must-see interview. The House Intelligence Committee chairman revealed yesterday that some communications of the Trump transition team were "monitored" after the election as part of "incidental collection." Nunes said he believed some of the legal collections involving foreign targets were "inappropriate" and reports that he read on the surveillance did not mention Russia or Russians. Trump, in a brief statement Wednesday, said he felt "somewhat" vindicated by Nunes' comments following an uproar over his claim that former President Obama had ordered the "wiretapping" of Trump Tower. Nunes' comments drew an immediate rebuke from the Intelligence Committee's top Democrat, Adam Schiff, who called for an independent investigation. "The chairman will either need to decide if he's leading an investigation into conduct which includes allegations of potential coordination between the Trump campaign and the Russians, or he is going to act as a surrogate of the White House. Because he cannot do both," Schiff told reporters after Nunes spoke. Don't miss the interview with Chairman Nunes on "Hannity," on Fox News Channel.

A day after his bombshell revelations about "incidental" surveillance of President Donald Trump's associates, Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) will join Sean Hannity tonight at 10pm ET for a must-see interview.

The House Intelligence Committee chairman revealed yesterday that some communications of the Trump transition team were "monitored" after the election as part of "incidental collection."

Nunes said he believed some of the legal collections involving foreign targets were "inappropriate" and reports that he read on the surveillance did not mention Russia or Russians.

Trump, in a brief statement Wednesday, said he felt "somewhat" vindicated by Nunes' comments following an uproar over his claim that former President Obama had ordered the "wiretapping" of Trump Tower.

Nunes' comments drew an immediate rebuke from the Intelligence Committee's top Democrat, Adam Schiff, who called for an independent investigation.

"The chairman will either need to decide if he's leading an investigation into conduct which includes allegations of potential coordination between the Trump campaign and the Russians, or he is going to act as a surrogate of the White House. Because he cannot do both," Schiff told reporters after Nunes spoke.

Don't miss the interview with Chairman Nunes on "Hannity," tonight at 10pm ET on Fox News Channel.

Rep. Nunes: Trump Transition Team Was Under 'Incidental' Surveillance

Huckabee Calls for 'Independent Investigation' of Surveillance on Trump Team

AP Reporter on Manafort Scoop: He Was 'Gun for Hire' to Advance Russian Interests