The smiling Sharia policewomen of Banda Aceh, Indonesia
The smiling Sharia policewomen of Banda Aceh, Indonesia


Pictured sitting in a row with big smiles, these are the Indonesian policewomen charged with deciding how many lashes women should be given as punishment.

Public canings regularly take place in Banda Aceh, in the country's Aceh province, for offences ranging from adultery to homosexuality to selling alcohol.

It is one of the few places in Indonesia where a strict version of Sharia law is enforced.

Members of the sharia police women known as Wilayatul Hisbah pose for a photograph in Banda Aceh, Indonesia

A woman holds her head as she is escorted away after being whipped by an executor following an accusation of having sex outside of marriage

An Indonesian woman cowers at the feet of an enforcer whose job is to administer lashings for breaking a strict set of rules

Members of the sharia police women known as Wilayatul Hisbah stop teenage girls who are wearing tights, which is against the prevailing sharia law

Police women speak to a young couple after they were caught sitting too close to each other in a park

The vast majority of the country's 255 million people - 90 per cent of whom describe themselves as Muslim - do not follow the strict rules.

A group called Wilayatul Hisbah, an Islamic police force, is responsible for catching offenders.

Images taken today show an acehnese woman being caned by an executor known as an 'algojo' because she had spent time with a man who is not her husband.

Members of the police group known as Wilayatul Hisbah pray during morning assembly before they go out on patrol in the conservative state in Indonesia

Women are required to dress modestly and Shariah police officers patrol the streets and conduct raids to hunt for immoral activities

An acehnese woman gets a caning in public from an executor known as 'algojo' for spending time with a man who is not her husband

Women are required to dress modestly and Shariah police officers patrol the streets and conduct raids to hunt for immoral activities.

The province began implementing Sharia law after being granted autonomy in 2001 – an attempt by the government in Jakarta to quell a long-running separatist insurgency.

Islamic laws have been strengthened since Aceh struck a peace deal with Jakarta in 2005.

An executor known as 'algojo' prepares for a public caning for violations against Sharia law in Banda Aceh, Indonesia

A woman is escorted to the public spot where she will be given a caning for spending time with a man who is not her husband

Large groups gather to watch a lashing in public of a woman who spent time with a man who wasn't her husband

Some of the masked men in the pictures are paid professional executioners, and all adhere to an intimidating dress code of a black robe with a gold trim, beige or light-coloured eye mask and white gloves.

Previously, the enforcers have been seen to wear a pink trim to their black robes, but their footwear appears to be their own choice.

They have been seen to wear black boots, running shoes and in the most recent lashings which occurred on Monday, one enforcer was spotted wearing what looked like hotel-issue white slippers.

Punishments were handed out to women and men having sex outside of marriage for which they received 25 lashings.

One man was caned for gambling and both men and women were lashed for spending time with somebody who is not their husband or wife.

The punishments are not consistent with previous cases, with women caned 100 time for having sex outside of marriage just 10 days ago.