Eurovision wants barred Russian singer to compete via satellite in Ukraine

Agence France-Presse in Geneva    A Russian singer who was barred from entering Ukraine has been given permission to take part in the Eurovision song contest in Kiev via satellite. On Wednesday Ukraine’s security service imposed a three-year entry ban on Russia’s participant, Yulia Samoilova, for illegally entering Crimea, which has been annexed by Russia, to perform in a 2015 gala concert. The Geneva-based European Broadcasting Union (EBU), which organises the contest, had criticised Kiev’s decision to exclude Samoilova. “Taking into consideration this ban might be upheld by the Ukrainian authorities, and in order to maintain the non-political nature of the Eurovision song contest, the EBU has been working hard to find a solution to this situation,” the organisation said on Thursday. The EBU had “taken the unprecedented move to offer Channel One Russia the opportunity for Julia to still participate in this year’s contest by performing live in the second semi-final via satellite”, it said. “Should the Russian entry qualify for the grand final the same solution would apply … This is something that has never been done before in the contest’s 60-year history.” The unprecedented move was necessary, the EBU said, to keep with “the spirit of Eurovision’s values of inclusivity”. It vowed “to ensure that all 43 are given the opportunity to participate”. The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, previously described the ban as being “on the conscience of the organisers” in Ukraine . It was also criticised by the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, who said: “The decision, from our point of view, is absolutely unfair. It’s unfortunate and we hope all the same that it will be reconsidered.” He said the ban “seriously devalues” the competition. Samoilova said she was keeping her spirits up. “Overall I’m not upset,” Samoilova told Channel One state-controlled television, which selected her as Russia’s contestant. “I will keep going. I somehow think that everything will change.” Samoilova said she could not understand why Ukrainian authorities saw “some kind of threat in a little girl like me”. The contest in Kiev comprises two semi-finals on 9 and 11 May, followed by the final on 13 May. Last year’s winning song , which gave Ukraine hosting rights in 2017, was about the deportation by Soviet authorities of the Crimean Tatar population to central Asia. Its singer Susana Jamaladynova, whose stage name is Jamala, is from the minority Crimean Tatar population which largely opposed Russian annexation. She said before the contest that the song was about the events of 1944 and 2014.  Russia   Ukraine   Eurovision   Television   Europe   news

A Russian singer who was barred from entering Ukraine has been given permission to take part in the Eurovision song contest in Kiev via satellite.

On Wednesday Ukraine’s security service imposed a three-year entry ban on Russia’s participant, Yulia Samoilova, for illegally entering Crimea, which has been annexed by Russia, to perform in a 2015 gala concert.

The Geneva-based European Broadcasting Union (EBU), which organises the contest, had criticised Kiev’s decision to exclude Samoilova.

“Taking into consideration this ban might be upheld by the Ukrainian authorities, and in order to maintain the non-political nature of the Eurovision song contest, the EBU has been working hard to find a solution to this situation,” the organisation said on Thursday.

The EBU had “taken the unprecedented move to offer Channel One Russia the opportunity for Julia to still participate in this year’s contest by performing live in the second semi-final via satellite”, it said.

“Should the Russian entry qualify for the grand final the same solution would apply … This is something that has never been done before in the contest’s 60-year history.”

The unprecedented move was necessary, the EBU said, to keep with “the spirit of Eurovision’s values of inclusivity”. It vowed “to ensure that all 43 are given the opportunity to participate”.

The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, previously described the ban as being “on the conscience of the organisers” in Ukraine.

It was also criticised by the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, who said: “The decision, from our point of view, is absolutely unfair. It’s unfortunate and we hope all the same that it will be reconsidered.” He said the ban “seriously devalues” the competition.

Crimean singer in line to represent Ukraine at Eurovision Read more

Samoilova said she was keeping her spirits up. “Overall I’m not upset,” Samoilova told Channel One state-controlled television, which selected her as Russia’s contestant. “I will keep going. I somehow think that everything will change.”

Samoilova said she could not understand why Ukrainian authorities saw “some kind of threat in a little girl like me”.

The contest in Kiev comprises two semi-finals on 9 and 11 May, followed by the final on 13 May.

Last year’s winning song, which gave Ukraine hosting rights in 2017, was about the deportation by Soviet authorities of the Crimean Tatar population to central Asia.

Its singer Susana Jamaladynova, whose stage name is Jamala, is from the minority Crimean Tatar population which largely opposed Russian annexation. She said before the contest that the song was about the events of 1944 and 2014.