London MP Gave Mouth-To-Mouth To Save The Life Of A Stabbed Officer During London Terror Attack
London MP Gave Mouth-To-Mouth To Save The Life Of A Stabbed Officer During London Terror Attack
London MP Gave Mouth-To-Mouth To Save The Life Of A Stabbed Officer During London Terror Attack Last night's London Terror Attack shook the entire world with five people dead, and 40 others injured. Amidst all the chaos that happened on the first anniversary of Brussels Attack , a dramatic act by London MP is doing rounds on the Internet. MP Tobias Ellwood 'gave stabbed police officer mouth-to-mouth in a desperate bid to save him'. The officer was stabbed by the attacker, who was shot by the police. Ellwood who's also a former army officer performed the act in New Palace Yard, Westminster. Images from the dramatic incidence showed the MP crouching down towards the officer, performing resuscitation. He even placed his hand on the officer's chest, in order to stem the flow of blood. (Also read: London Stunned By Terror Attack Outside British Parliament Which Has Left Five Dead And 40 Hurt ) "I was on the scene and as soon as I realised what was going on I headed towards it. It is a huge tragedy, it really is. said Ellwood, as reported by the Daily Mail. Four people, including the police officer and the attacker, died and at least 40 people were injured, including three other officers. Everyone's now calling him a hero for his actions.

Last night's London Terror Attack shook the entire world with five people dead, and 40 others injured.

REUTERS

Amidst all the chaos that happened on the first anniversary of Brussels Attack, a dramatic act by London MP is doing rounds on the Internet.

MP Tobias Ellwood 'gave stabbed police officer mouth-to-mouth in a desperate bid to save him'.

The officer was stabbed by the attacker, who was shot by the police.

itv.com

Ellwood who's also a former army officer performed the act in New Palace Yard, Westminster. Images from the dramatic incidence showed the MP crouching down towards the officer, performing resuscitation.

He even placed his hand on the officer's chest, in order to stem the flow of blood.

(Also read: London Stunned By Terror Attack Outside British Parliament Which Has Left Five Dead And 40 Hurt)

"I was on the scene and as soon as I realised what was going on I headed towards it. It is a huge tragedy, it really is. said Ellwood, as reported by the Daily Mail.

tandard.co.uk

Four people, including the police officer and the attacker, died and at least 40 people were injured, including three other officers.

Everyone's now calling him a hero for his actions.