Princess Sofia of Sweden pregnant with her second child
Princess Sofia of Sweden pregnant with her second child


They already have their hands full with their 11-month-old son, Prince Alexander, but Sofia and Carl Philip are ready to embrace parenthood all over again.

The couple announced that Sofia, 32, is already pregnant with their second child, due in September 2017.

In an official statement on the Swedish Royal Court's website, the couple said: 'We are happy to announce that we are expecting a child, a sibling to Prince Alexander.

'We are looking forward to welcoming a new little member to our family.'

Princess Sofia of Sweden, 32, and her husband Carl Philip, 37, are expecting sibling for their son Prince Alexander

The statement also confirmed that Sofia would continue with her scheduled engagements as planned throughout the spring and summer of 2017.

Their happy news comes just 11 months after the birth of the couple's first child Prince Alexander who arrived in April 2016.

He was born weighing at 7lbs 9oz. and measuring 19.3 inches long at Danderyds Hospital in Stockholm.

Hours after the birth, Carl Philip held a press conference at the hospital to announce the new arrival.

Proud expectant parents! The couple, pictured together last Friday, are looking forward to welcoming their second child

The happy family is set to welcome a new member in September this year

'When asked if he had cried during the birth, the prince replied, according to People magazine: 'Yes, actually. Of course. Couldn't stop.

'For me and my wife, this is obviously a great day with a lot of emotion. Words cannot describe.'

Former glamour model Sofia Hellqvist married the prince last June. The elegant brunette is known for her infectious gap-toothed smile and easygoing ways.

They dated for five years before walking down the aisle and now live together in the upmarket Djurgården district of Stockholm.

The proud parents with their son Alexander. Sofia is set to continue with her scheduled engagements throughout the spring and summer

They married in the royal palace's chapel, with the bride wearing a lace wedding dress created by local designer Ida Sjöstedt.

But thanks to Princess Sofia's reality TV and glamour modelling past, Carl Philip's choice of wife initially proved controversial.

The now Duchess of Värmland's first shoot aged 20 saw her posing topless in a pair of camouflage print bikini bottoms and clutching a snake to preserve her modesty.

The stunning couple beam with happiness on their wedding day in June 2015

Unsurprisingly, when news of Carl Philip's new relationship emerged in 2010, the Swedish Royal Family were initially put 'on the defensive' as sources revealed at the time.

Since then, however, Sofia has gone out of her way to tone down her image.

Meanwhile Carl Philip has hit the headlines for antics of his own - not least his infamous 'wild summer' of 2012, during which he hit the Swedish party scene wearing an alien mask, and hitchhiked to a motoring competition after losing his Gucci wallet, going on to crash his car in the first race.