Ebay's New Guaranteed Delivery Program Goes Head-To-Head With Amazon Prime And Jet
Ebay's New Guaranteed Delivery Program Goes Head-To-Head With Amazon Prime And Jet
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Marcia Layton Turner       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Ebay's new Guaranteed Delivery program is an effort to level the playing field with Amazon and Jet. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg One thing online shoppers are not is patient. Consumers want their orders now, not days from now, and certainly not weeks from now. Recognizing this fact and the impact it is having on sales, eBay has announced a new Guaranteed Delivery program designed to get shipments into the hands of its customers in three days or less. Until recently, Amazon has been the standout when it comes to getting purchases to U.S. consumers quickly. Its Prime service delivers orders of new and used products to subscribers in two days, guaranteed, and overnight if shoppers want to pay a $3.99 upcharge. Without a Prime subscription, consumers must spend $35 in order to qualify for free shipping. Jet , which is owned by Walmart, has made great inroads into the online delivery world, offering free shipping on purchases of $35 or more, like Amazon. Its inventory consists of everything from “everyday essentials,” to cleaning products, toys, health and beauty, pet supplies and more–all new. Eighty percent of eBay’s 1.1 billion listings are for new merchandise, although the site is perhaps best known for the 20% of its inventory that consists of used, vintage and antique products. Speedy shipping is an area where eBay has fallen short. It has over 20 million sellers scattered across the globe, who have the freedom to offer customers whatever shipping speed works best for them. Some eBay sellers ship in one day, others in two or more. Some offer faster shipping options, such as the U.S. Postal Service’s Priority Mail, while others stick with ground delivery. Sellers offer a hodgepodge of delivery options, which has sometimes proved confusing for customers. “We know over 40% of online shoppers don’t complete their purchases due to longer than expected shipping times,” wrote eBay CEO Devin Wenig in a March 20, 2017, blog post. Guaranteed Delivery is a step toward reducing abandoned shopping carts. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

One thing online shoppers are not is patient. Consumers want their orders now, not days from now, and certainly not weeks from now. Recognizing this fact and the impact it is having on sales, eBay has announced a new Guaranteed Delivery program designed to get shipments into the hands of its customers in three days or less.

Until recently, Amazon has been the standout when it comes to getting purchases to U.S. consumers quickly. Its Prime service delivers orders of new and used products to subscribers in two days, guaranteed, and overnight if shoppers want to pay a $3.99 upcharge. Without a Prime subscription, consumers must spend $35 in order to qualify for free shipping.

Jet, which is owned by Walmart, has made great inroads into the online delivery world, offering free shipping on purchases of $35 or more, like Amazon. Its inventory consists of everything from “everyday essentials,” to cleaning products, toys, health and beauty, pet supplies and more–all new.

Eighty percent of eBay’s 1.1 billion listings are for new merchandise, although the site is perhaps best known for the 20% of its inventory that consists of used, vintage and antique products.

Speedy shipping is an area where eBay has fallen short. It has over 20 million sellers scattered across the globe, who have the freedom to offer customers whatever shipping speed works best for them. Some eBay sellers ship in one day, others in two or more. Some offer faster shipping options, such as the U.S. Postal Service’s Priority Mail, while others stick with ground delivery. Sellers offer a hodgepodge of delivery options, which has sometimes proved confusing for customers.

“We know over 40% of online shoppers don’t complete their purchases due to longer than expected shipping times,” wrote eBay CEO Devin Wenig in a March 20, 2017, blog post. Guaranteed Delivery is a step toward reducing abandoned shopping carts.

Standardized Delivery Speed