Why Virgin America Will Soon Cease To Exist
Why Virgin America Will Soon Cease To Exist
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Lauren Gensler       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg) The Virgin America name is being permanently grounded. Alaska Airlines, which bought the airline for $2.6 billion last year, said on Wednesday it has decided to ditch Virgin America's brand name and logo sometime in 2019. However, it will hang on to certain signature features, like mood lighting, music and enhanced in-flight entertainment. "While the Virgin America name is beloved to many, we concluded that to be successful on the West Coast we had to do so under one name - for consistency and efficiency, and to allow us to continue to deliver low fares," said Sangita Woerner, Alaska Airlines' vice president of marketing. When Alaska Air merged with Virgin America, it became the fifth-largest airline in the country with 1,200 daily flights and nearly 300 planes. It has continue to expand and earlier this month said it would be introducing flights in 21 new markets. Virgin America," said Branson on his blog Branson, who opposed the original merger but didn't have the voting power to stop it, said he had heard that some Virgin America employees were calling this (Photo credit: Alaska Airlines) The new, blue mood lighting Beginning in 2018, the While investors were initially skeptical of the merger, they have since come around. Alaska Air's stock is up 18% since the tie-up was announced last year. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

The Virgin America name is being permanently grounded.

Alaska Airlines, which bought the airline for $2.6 billion last year, said on Wednesday it has decided to ditch Virgin America's brand name and logo sometime in 2019.

However, it will hang on to certain signature features, like mood lighting, music and enhanced in-flight entertainment.

"While the Virgin America name is beloved to many, we concluded that to be successful on the West Coast we had to do so under one name - for consistency and efficiency, and to allow us to continue to deliver low fares," said Sangita Woerner, Alaska Airlines' vice president of marketing.

When Alaska Air merged with Virgin America, it became the fifth-largest airline in the country with 1,200 daily flights and nearly 300 planes. It has continue to expand and earlier this month said it would be introducing flights in 21 new markets.

Virgin America was created by billionaire Richard Branson in 2004 with the goal of creating a different kind of airline. The atmosphere was designed to be more playful (pink and purple mood lighting adorned the planes, music played during boarding) and amenities more robust (free wifi, in-seat food ordering).

"Many tears are shed today...over Alaska Airlines’ decision to buy and now retire Virgin America," said Branson on his blog. "It has a very different business model and sadly, it could not find a way to maintain its own brand and that of Virgin America."

Branson, who opposed the original merger but didn't have the voting power to stop it, said he had heard that some Virgin America employees were calling this "the day the music died."

Alaska Air said it is instead aiming to create a "warm and welcoming West Coast-inspired vibe." It will introduce blue mood lighting on planes and flight attendants, pilots and other airline staff will soon be outfitted in "modern, stylish" uniforms designed by Seattle's Luly Yang.

(Photo credit: Alaska Airlines)

The airline described other initiatives that it hopes will help continue to set it apart from other airlines and carry on the legacy of Virgin America. It's making a library of free entertainment available to passengers on their own devices and will be rolling out high-speed satellite WiFi to all its planes starting in the fall of 2018. It's also expanding its selection of premium seating.

Beginning in 2018, the Alaska Air frequent flier program will become the sole loyalty program for both airlines. Existing Virgin America frequent flier members have the option to convert their points into the Alaska Air program at a rate of 1 point to 1.3 miles. Otherwise points will be automatically transferred in early 2018.

While investors were initially skeptical of the merger, they have since come around. Alaska Air's stock is up 18% since the tie-up was announced last year.