DETAILS: Utah Man Killed in London Attack While on 'Dream Vacation' With Wife

DETAILS: Utah Man Killed in London Attack While on 'Dream Vacation' With Wife Kurt and Melissa Cochran were celebrating their 25th anniversary. He was killed yesterday, she remains in hospital https://t.co/WbspFDsrX0  pic.twitter.com/8Npk66q5kg — Janine Gibson (@janinegibson) March 23, 2017 A man from Utah died of injuries suffered in Wednesday's terror attack in London. President Donald Trump tweeted his condolences to the family of Kurt Cochran, 54, whose wife was seriously injured as the couple vacationed in London to celebrate their 25th anniversary. Melissa Cochran remains hospitalized with broken bones. A great American, Kurt Cochran, was killed in the London terror attack. My prayers and condolences are with his family and friends. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2017 Her brother released a statement through the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. "Our family is heartbroken to learn of the death of our brother- and son-in-law, Kurt W. Cochran, who was a victim of Wednesday's terrorist attack in London,” he said. "Kurt was a good man and a loving husband to our sister and daughter, Melissa." "Our family is heartbroken to learn of the death of our son-in-law, Kurt W. Cochran." Full statement: https://t.co/nwD7hTprn6  pic.twitter.com/MHzHM2L2eU — FOX 13 News Utah (@fox13) March 23, 2017  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) expressed his condolences to the family in a statement. Hatch Statement on the Death of Utahn Kurt Cochran in London Terror Attack -- #utpol  #londonattack  pic.twitter.com/oppWp2e9al — Senator Hatch Office (@senorrinhatch) March 23, 2017 The couple was due to return to the U.S. today after also visiting Austria and Germany in what the family called a "dream vacation," FOX 13 reported . The attacker, now identified as UK-born 52-year-old Khalid Masood, drove an SUV into pedestrians on Westminster Bridge before running toward Parliament and fatally stabbing a policeman, 48-year-old Keith Palmer. BREAKING NEWS: London Police name attacker as Khalid Masood. pic.twitter.com/WlXYMWAWvr — Fox News (@FoxNews) March 23, 2017 Police shot the attacker, who later was pronounced dead. Four people were killed in the attack, with more than 30 others injured. The Cochrans were struck by the SUV as they walked on the bridge over the River Thames. Relatives said Mr. Cochran passed away Thursday morning from his injuries. Friends and family set up a GoFundMe page for the Cochrans. According to the page, the couple was visiting Melissa's parents, who are serving as Mormon missionaries in London. "Melissa & Kurt are self-employed, having built a recording studio business from the ground up over the last 10 years.  During that time they donated their recording and sound skills to the Summerfest celebration in Bountiful, Utah, to local school productions, and many other worthy causes," her brother wrote. Rep. Mia Love (R-UT) also released a statement this morning. I am heartbroken about the death of Kurt Cochran+injury of Melissa in #LondonAttack . My full statement: https://t.co/YsHYq598De #utpol — Rep. Mia Love (@RepMiaLove) March 23, 2017 "I am heartbroken to hear about the violent death of Kurt Cochran and the serious injury of his wife Melissa in London Wednesday. This kind of vicious terrorist attack cannot be tolerated. We, as Utahns are united in grief and loss, and our thoughts and prayers go out to their friends and family," said Love. Watch more below on the latest from London.

Kurt and Melissa Cochran were celebrating their 25th anniversary. He was killed yesterday, she remains in hospital https://t.co/WbspFDsrX0 pic.twitter.com/8Npk66q5kg — Janine Gibson (@janinegibson) March 23, 2017

A man from Utah died of injuries suffered in Wednesday's terror attack in London.

President Donald Trump tweeted his condolences to the family of Kurt Cochran, 54, whose wife was seriously injured as the couple vacationed in London to celebrate their 25th anniversary.

Melissa Cochran remains hospitalized with broken bones.

A great American, Kurt Cochran, was killed in the London terror attack. My prayers and condolences are with his family and friends. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2017

Her brother released a statement through the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.

"Our family is heartbroken to learn of the death of our brother- and son-in-law, Kurt W. Cochran, who was a victim of Wednesday's terrorist attack in London,” he said. "Kurt was a good man and a loving husband to our sister and daughter, Melissa."

"Our family is heartbroken to learn of the death of our son-in-law, Kurt W. Cochran." Full statement: https://t.co/nwD7hTprn6 pic.twitter.com/MHzHM2L2eU — FOX 13 News Utah (@fox13) March 23, 2017

Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT) expressed his condolences to the family in a statement.

Hatch Statement on the Death of Utahn Kurt Cochran in London Terror Attack -- #utpol #londonattack pic.twitter.com/oppWp2e9al — Senator Hatch Office (@senorrinhatch) March 23, 2017

The couple was due to return to the U.S. today after also visiting Austria and Germany in what the family called a "dream vacation," FOX 13 reported.

The attacker, now identified as UK-born 52-year-old Khalid Masood, drove an SUV into pedestrians on Westminster Bridge before running toward Parliament and fatally stabbing a policeman, 48-year-old Keith Palmer.

BREAKING NEWS: London Police name attacker as Khalid Masood. pic.twitter.com/WlXYMWAWvr — Fox News (@FoxNews) March 23, 2017

Police shot the attacker, who later was pronounced dead. Four people were killed in the attack, with more than 30 others injured.

The Cochrans were struck by the SUV as they walked on the bridge over the River Thames. Relatives said Mr. Cochran passed away Thursday morning from his injuries.

Friends and family set up a GoFundMe page for the Cochrans. According to the page, the couple was visiting Melissa's parents, who are serving as Mormon missionaries in London.

"Melissa & Kurt are self-employed, having built a recording studio business from the ground up over the last 10 years. During that time they donated their recording and sound skills to the Summerfest celebration in Bountiful, Utah, to local school productions, and many other worthy causes," her brother wrote.

Rep. Mia Love (R-UT) also released a statement this morning.

I am heartbroken about the death of Kurt Cochran+injury of Melissa in #LondonAttack . My full statement: https://t.co/YsHYq598De

#utpol — Rep. Mia Love (@RepMiaLove) March 23, 2017

"I am heartbroken to hear about the violent death of Kurt Cochran and the serious injury of his wife Melissa in London Wednesday. This kind of vicious terrorist attack cannot be tolerated. We, as Utahns are united in grief and loss, and our thoughts and prayers go out to their friends and family," said Love.

Watch more below on the latest from London.