The 30 Cheapest Places To Travel In 2017
The 30 Cheapest Places To Travel In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Laura Begley Bloom       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Time to start packing your bags: 2017 is shaping up to be a banner year for budget travel. The dollar is enjoying historic highs — meaning your money goes much further in many destinations around the globe — and Bali — one of the most affordable destinations for 2017. (Photo courtesy of Nastasia Yakoub/Dame Traveler) Here are their favorite picks for the most affordable destinations to visit next year. The Mazatlan coast. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) Holly Johnson, founder of Club Thrifty , The current exchange rate ($1 = 20.69 Mexican pesos) makes Mexico one of the most affordable destinations. For the frugal traveler who wants to enjoy more culture than they might in the Riviera Maya, my top pick is Mazatlan. As the shrimp capital of Mexico and a foodie paradise, Mazatlan is teeming with awesome eateries and fresh, interesting dishes. Hotels (including all-inclusive properties) are extremely inexpensive and authentic since most aren't part of the huge chains. You can also enjoy superb dining at a top-notch restaurant like Casa 46 for less than half what you'd pay in the United States. Side note: Sinaloa (the state where Mazatlan resides) grows the bulk of produce in Mexico, so Mazatlan produce is unbelievably cheap as a result. You see this reflected in top restaurants all the way down to street markets. On safari in South Africa. (Photo courtesy of Oh The People You Meet) In he exchange rate is in our favor, but so is the fact that it's a developed tourist destination with a solid i . In spending a month in Cape Town earlier this year and relying on Uber to get me to and from meetings, activities and lunches, I averaged under $20 in transportation per day — a major win. Hotels are cheaper, too: Remember, South Africa is in the Southern Hemisphere, so seasons are the opposite: Consider going in low season (our summer) when . Travelers should also consider booking domestic airfare in advance for the greatest cost savings, since flights on South African Airways can sell out quickly. The best value of all is the wine: Travelers can order a glass of one of the best locally produced varietals for less than the cost of a can of soda. Michaela's Map: First Timers' Guide to Southern Africa ." Sarah Greaves-Gabbadon in San Juan, Puerto Rico. (Photo courtesy of Sarah Greaves-Gabbadon/Jet Set Sarah) A Santiago cityscape viewed from the Santa Lucia Hill. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) A waterfront taverna in Crete. (Photo courtesy of Meagen Collins/Food Fun Travel) Meagen Collins, co-founder of Food Fun Travel , traveling the world in search of the ultimate foodie vacation experiences and discovering food worth traveling for in 85+ countries and counting Crete Food ." The affordable Riad Yasmine in Marrakech. (Photo courtesy of @misjetsetter/Instagram) For many, Morocco is the ultimate dream trip, and yet cost tends to keep most from visiting. But what you might not know is that it's one of the most affordable African countries, particularly when comparing flight costs. Reaching Marrakech from cities such as Lisbon, Madrid and Paris may only set you back $40 to $100 roundtrip with many budget airlines. And this past Black Friday, flights from New York were a mere $400 roundtrip. Food is by far my main reason for visiting as often as I do, and typical meals can range from $2.50 to $15 for two, which includes appetizers, entree and unlimited mint tea. For vegetarians and vegans, the country is especially great, as veggies are cheaper than meat and fresh fruit smoothies are barely $1. Souvenir shopping can get a bit intense when you realize leather goods such as wallets, handbags and weekenders run from $5 to $60. (A shopaholics dream!) When it comes to accommodations there's something to fit everyone's budget, my favorite being Riad Yasmine (only $80-$160 per night). For those looking for Moroccan luxury while still on a budget, my go-to is Riad Kheirredine , which will have you living like a queen without breaking the bank and even provides a cell phone during your stay to ensure guest safety. Seaside in Belize. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) Boats sit in the harbor in Halong Bay, Vietnam. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) writer, author, adventurer and There are clean, safe accommodations to fit everyone's wallet. In Hanoi, my favorite is the Tirant Hotel , near the old town, where you can bag a room for less than $70 a night. Don't miss the Hanoi street food tour: For just $20 per person, a ou will eat like the locals and learn the names and ingredients in the dishes so you can order them again. And be sure to take the time to sip a bowl of steaming "pho" noodle soup in restaurants, push carts and food stalls, where a Costa Rica landscape. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) Cliffside in Lagos, Portugal. (Photo courtesy of Jackie Nourse/TheBudgetMindedTraveler.com) The landscape of Ecuador. (Photo courtesy of Nora Dunn/The Professional Hobo) A street corner in Barcelona. (Photo courtesy of Nastasia Yakoub/Dame Traveler) Lake Atitlán in Guatemala. (Photo courtesy of Shannon O'Donnell/ALittleAdrift.com) A secluded beach in Bonaire. (Photo courtesy of Melinda Crow/FirstRead.Me) The sun sets over Las Vegas. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) Oh The People You Meet founder Michaela Guzy at Angkor in Siem Reap. (Photo courtesy of Oh The People You Meet) Waterfront in Bali. (Photo courtesy of Nastasia Yakoub/Dame Traveler) The Parthenon in Athens, Greece. (Photo courtesy of Holly Johnson/Club Thrifty) Club Thrifty The weakened euro has made any trip to Europe more affordable, but this is especially true in Greece. The struggling economy craves tourist dollars and makes it known with affordable pricing on everything from hotels to food. In Athens, you can book a three- or four-star hotel for well under $100, like Best of all, you can sit down to an amazing Greek meal with drinks (Mythos or Ouzo?), appetizers (Saganaki, anyone?) and entrees of your choosing for less than half what you'd pay in the States. Heck, you can pick up Souvlaki or a gyro for $1-$2. Souvenirs are insanely cheap, too. Waterfront in Saranda, Albania. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock)  Edward James Surrealistic Garden in San Luis Potosí, Mexico. (Photo courtesy of Jackie Nourse/TheBudgetMindedTraveler.com) Jackie Nourse, TheBudgetMindedTraveler.com Picture a perfect class III white water rafting experience through a limestone canyon of turquoise waters, a visit to a living garden of eden, complete with art sculptures, hidden pools, butterflies and waterfalls, a hike to the largest known cave shaft in the world, which you can rappel into, and a series of waterfalls for cliff jumping. Top this all off with a plate of homemade tacos and a local beer for $2, and you've got yourself a piece of adventure paradise on a budget. Still very much under the radar to anyone outside of Mexico, San Luis Potosí could be compared to Costa Rica in terms of adventure and Cambodia in terms of affordability. Since Election Day, the dollar has been especially strong in Mexico, offering an even better excuse to travel south of the border. Street scene in Quebec City, Canada. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) The Gutsy Traveler A colorful street corner in Buenos Aires. (Photo courtesy of Kevin Dooley/Flickr) Wahoo Bay in Haiti. (Photo courtesy of @misjetsetter/Instagram) While Haiti still remains under the radar as a travel destination, many people have been flocking to the vibrant country, and I can see why: Outside of holiday seasons and the later part of the summer, flights from New York range from $300 to $500, and even cheaper when flying from cities in Florida. The real gem is how cheap the hotels are, with many starting at $50 to $150 per night including airport transfers. Even the newest Marriott Port-au-Prince will only set you back $130 to under $200 a night for larger rooms. One of my favorites is Wahoo Bay Beach , which has epic mountain and ocean views from its stunning pool and rooms. You can take small boat tours around the area for a couple of dollars per person. Lobster, conch and crab can be caught right from the water and prepared for you without costing more than $10. Descanso Beach Club on Santa Catalina Island. (Photo courtesy of Santa Catalina Island Company) F Indonesian temples. (Photo courtesy of Meagen Collins/Food Fun Travel) Bali Food Guide ." Wine country, Bulgaria. (Photo courtesy of Jackie Nourse/TheBudgetMindedTraveler.com) Overlooking Cusco in Peru. (Photo courtesy of @misjetsetter/Instagram) Most people who pass through Cusco are en route to the very popular Machu Picchu, but you should make sure to spend a few days, maybe even a few weeks in this colorful city. Not only is the city absolutely stunning and oozing with culture, most accommodations range from $20 to $100 a night. Peruvian textiles are extremely affordable and the vibrant colors are stunning. Eating out in Cusco can be extremely cheap, if you know where to eat. Restaurants are quite affordable compared to most American and European restaurants, but street food here is the real winner. I'm personally addicted to ceviche and can't find it cheaper than $15 for a small portion in the states, but in Cusco's San Pedro Market you can find ceviche plus Peruvian fried rice for only $3. On my last trip, I had steak and ceviche nearly every day and never spent more than $15 for two including a drink and soup. A regal setting in Georgia. (Photo courtesy of Meagen Collins/Fun Food Travel)  Meagen Collins: A pretty beach in Mozambique. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) 17 Incredible Budget Travel Destinations Still On My List (That Should Be On Yours Too!) ." The skyline of Dallas. (Photo courtesy of Shutterstock) Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Time to start packing your bags: 2017 is shaping up to be a banner year for budget travel. The dollar is enjoying historic highs — meaning your money goes much further in many destinations around the globe — and according to an American Express Global Business Travel report, airfares are expected to fall in 2017.

So where should you go on your next trip? I interviewed 14 travel experts who make it their business to keep track of the best bargains around. Here are their favorite picks for the most affordable destinations to visit next year.

Where: Mazatlan, Mexico

Chosen By: Holly Johnson, founder of Club Thrifty, a website with tips on travel savings whose motto is “Stop spending. Start living”

Why: The current exchange rate ($1 = 20.69 Mexican pesos) makes Mexico one of the most affordable destinations. For the frugal traveler who wants to enjoy more culture than they might in the Riviera Maya, my top pick is Mazatlan. As the shrimp capital of Mexico and a foodie paradise, Mazatlan is teeming with awesome eateries and fresh, interesting dishes. Hotels (including all-inclusive properties) are extremely inexpensive and authentic since most aren't part of the huge chains. El Cid Marina has awesome pools that are perfect for families, great food and huge rooms. (Rates are as low as $100 for a family of four.) You can also enjoy superb dining at a top-notch restaurant like Casa 46 for less than half what you'd pay in the United States. Side note: Sinaloa (the state where Mazatlan resides) grows the bulk of produce in Mexico, so Mazatlan produce is unbelievably cheap as a result. You see this reflected in top restaurants all the way down to street markets.

Where: South Africa

Chosen By: Michaela Guzy, founder of Oh The People You Meet, a global collaborative of contributors who create content for travelers, foodies and philanthropists seeking authentic local connections

Why: In South Africa, the exchange rate is in our favor, but so is the fact that it's a developed tourist destination with a solid infrastructure. In spending a month in Cape Town earlier this year and relying on Uber to get me to and from meetings, activities and lunches, I averaged under $20 in transportation per day — a major win. Hotels are cheaper, too: Take a standard room at Taj Hotels & Resorts in New York, and you are out about $786 a night, whereas in Cape Town, a room at a similar luxury property costs $266. Remember, South Africa is in the Southern Hemisphere, so seasons are the opposite: Consider going in low season (our summer) when hotels and safari lodges are even less expensive. Airbnb and private villa rentals are also reliable and cheap options in the major cities. Travelers should also consider booking domestic airfare in advance for the greatest cost savings, since flights on South African Airways can sell out quickly. The best value of all is the wine: Travelers can order a glass of one of the best locally produced varietals for less than the cost of a can of soda. For more information on travel in South Africa, watch "Michaela's Map: First Timers' Guide to Southern Africa."

Where: San Juan, Puerto Rico

Chosen By: Sarah Greaves-Gabbadon, founder of Jet Set Sarah, where travel and shopping meet

Why: The best way to get a deal in the Caribbean is to travel during the low season (end of April through mid-December) to destinations that have direct and frequent fights from your gateway; plenty of hotel inventory; and economies that aren't euro-based. Puerto Rico fits the bill, and I'm a big fan of San Juan, which I think is seriously underrated as an easy and affordable getaway, especially for visitors from the East Coast of the U.S. Old San Juan oozes charm, and if you stay within the old city's two-square-mile radius you won't need a car rental to access great restaurants, sightseeing and shopping. U.S. citizens can save themselves the cost of a passport since it's not required to visit, and since the U.S. dollar is the legal tender, there's no money lost on currency exchange. Hotel Casa Blanca and Villa Herencia are two of my favorite high-style/low-cost boutique hotels.

Where: Chile

Chosen By: Annie Fitzsimmons, digital editor at Virtuoso and editor-at-large at National Geographic

Why: Europe is on everyone's list of value-added trips this year and for good reason — the exchange rate is more favorable for American travelers than it has been in years. But the destinations I most dream about and long to return to are in South America, a destination that has long given travelers great value for money. In Chile, I love Santiago for its vibrant food and wine scene — think tucked-away wine bars, delicious tapas and hip hotels in a beautifully chaotic city. For a lesser-known and truly special corner of the world, I love the small lakeside town of Puerto Varas. It is part of the lakes district in Chile and the northern start of Patagonia. It is easy (and cheap!) to rent a car and explore this area. There is a surprising German heritage, so you'll see signs for "kuchen" (cake). With Puerto Varas as a hub, you can explore great places within a two-hour drive from the city: going to the top of a volcano, exploring waterfalls, finding the best cakes and food. This area sees very few American visitors and everything is CHEAP. It's one of those places I almost want to keep to myself, but it's so special that I can't.

Where: Crete

Chosen By: Meagen Collins, co-founder of Food Fun Travel, traveling the world in search of the ultimate foodie vacation experiences and discovering food worth traveling for in 85+ countries and counting

Why: With the U.S. dollar strong against the euro right now and the economic crisis in Greece keeping prices lower than other parts of Europe, it’s the perfect time to visit the beautiful island of Crete. Crete is a foodie dream come true. A place where farm-to-table isn’t a new fad, it’s a way of life. The people here often live to be well over 100 years old so they must be doing something right! With truly stunning natural beauty (like Balos beach) and locals that welcome tourists with open arms, you are bound to have the trip of a lifetime and save a few dollars at the same time. For more, see Fun Food Travel's "Crete Food."

Where: Morocco

Chosen By: Lucie Josma, @missjetsetter, a full-time photographer, content creator and social media manager specializing in travel and tourism.

Why: For many, Morocco is the ultimate dream trip, and yet cost tends to keep most from visiting. But what you might not know is that it's one of the most affordable African countries, particularly when comparing flight costs. Reaching Marrakech from cities such as Lisbon, Madrid and Paris may only set you back $40 to $100 roundtrip with many budget airlines. And this past Black Friday, flights from New York were a mere $400 roundtrip. Food is by far my main reason for visiting as often as I do, and typical meals can range from $2.50 to $15 for two, which includes appetizers, entree and unlimited mint tea. For vegetarians and vegans, the country is especially great, as veggies are cheaper than meat and fresh fruit smoothies are barely $1. Souvenir shopping can get a bit intense when you realize leather goods such as wallets, handbags and weekenders run from $5 to $60. (A shopaholics dream!) When it comes to accommodations there's something to fit everyone's budget, my favorite being Riad Yasmine (only $80-$160 per night). For those looking for Moroccan luxury while still on a budget, my go-to is Riad Kheirredine, which will have you living like a queen without breaking the bank and even provides a cell phone during your stay to ensure guest safety.

Where: Belize

Chosen By: Shereen Rayle, founder of ShereenTravelsCheap.com, which shows you how to go farther and do more for less without sacrificing comfort or fun

Why: Modern conveniences and history collide in Belize. It's a perfect place to take a budget romantic vacation. Many of the four-star hotels offer extras, like bicycle rentals, included in their low rates, as well as Belize's excellent local wines. Some affordable resorts to check out are George Hardie's Las Vegas Hotel in Corozal (Northern Belize) and the oceanside Royal Caribbean Resort in San Pedro along Ambergris Caye. Both can be booked for under $100 per night. Meals are also crazy cheap, but delicious. Two can eat at an upscale restaurant for less than $30, and much less at an everyday venue.

Where: Vietnam

Chosen By: Marybeth Bond, National Geographic writer, author, adventurer and founder of The Gutsy Traveler

Why: Affordable upscale accommodations, cheap and remarkably healthy food and beautiful sights make Vietnam a standout among budget-friendly South Asian destinations. Eat your way through historic Hanoi, kayak in the emerald waters of Halong Bay or relax in ancient Hoi An and the nearby beaches. There are clean, safe accommodations to fit everyone's wallet. In Hanoi, my favorite is the Tirant Hotel, near the old town, where you can bag a room for less than $70 a night. Don't miss the Hanoi street food tour: For just $20 per person, a guide will lead you on foot or by scooter through backstreets, markets and footpaths. You will eat like the locals and learn the names and ingredients in the dishes so you can order them again. And be sure to take the time to sip a bowl of steaming "pho" noodle soup in restaurants, push carts and food stalls, where a street meal and a beer can cost the same as a caramel macchiato at Starbucks.

Where: Costa Rica

Chosen By: Stephanie Parker, founder of Big World Small Pockets, created to showcase the highs and lows of happy, healthy budget travel. Its motto: Spend Less, Travel More!

Why: Costa Rica is the one of the most biodiverse places on the planet and to be able to see this on a shoestring is an incredible opportunity. There's a ton of national parks to explore, for instance, that only cost a few dollars to enter. Once there, you can then enjoy free self-guided walks that won't cost you a cent, but will deliver some great encounters with amazing wildlife like tapirs, monkeys, sloths and macaws. Manuel Antonio and Corcovado National Parks are two of the best. Public transport is also super cheap in Costa Rica, with buses generally less than $10, even for an eight-hour ride. This makes traveling between destinations in this compact country very affordable and means you can see a lot in a short amount of time. In addition, budget accommodation in Costa Rica — even at some of the best surf beaches — can be as little as $6 per person. And a "plato tipico" (local dish) can be enjoyed anywhere for as little as $2-3.

Where: Portugal

Chosen By: Jackie Nourse, founder of TheBudgetMindedTraveler.com, which inspires and equips Americans to get into the world of travel in a realistic, affordable, and most of all rewarding way

Why: Portugal is a pocket of affordable travel in contrast to the rest of Western Europe, especially if you get off the highways and take the back roads (where you can also avoid tolls). A bottle of delicious port and a plate of the day with a glass of wine can be found for around €5 each. Nowhere else in the world can its "California Highway 1 meets Tuscany" landscapes be enjoyed on such a budget, especially now that the dollar is strong against the euro.

Where: Ecuador

Chosen By: Nora Dunn, The Professional Hobo, a woman who sold everything she owned (including a busy financial planning practice) in 2006 to embrace her dreams of full-time travel

Why: Although Ecuador is not quite as inexpensive as Peru to the south, it’s an easy and affordable destination to travel to, especially if you stay a bit off the beaten path. It’s a short cheap flight from Florida with budget airlines like jetBlue and TAME, and accommodation is pretty cheap. Shop at your local market and you can get a week’s worth of groceries for $10. And Ecuador has lots of variety; from surf beach towns like Montanita, to the volcanic Banos with famed hot springs at the gateway to the Amazon basin, to the UNESCO World Heritage site of Cuenca in the high Andes, there’s a lot to see. The bus systems are good and domestic flights cheap and plentiful. Find a free accommodation option like house-sitting or volunteering, and your trip can be even cheaper.

Where: Barcelona

Chosen By: Nastasia Yakoub, founder of Dame Traveler, sharing her passion for travel with a sizable community of female travelers

Why: Barcelona is ranked right up there with cities like Paris and London as one of the most popular European cities, but it is by far the most affordable. This is thanks to low-cost tapas restaurants, endless free attractions and affordable things to do. Have a meal of tapas and wine at El Xampanyet for around €10-15. Soak up the rays on the beach at Barceloneta. Get lost in the La Boqueria Market. And take the tram up to Tibidabo (only €5) for sweeping panoramic views of the city; it's also where you can experience a vintage amusement park and a gorgeous cathedral.

Where: Guatemala

Chosen By: Shannon O'Donnell, National Geographic Traveler of the Year and founder of ALittleAdrift.com

Why: Often bypassed in favor of nearby Costa Rica, Guatemala is unique unto itself in Central America. And because it's a bit more "off the path" in the region, it's also easy on the budget and a nice place to splurge. The villas and hotels rimming Lake Atitlán have all the beauty you could want for a small fraction of the price you'd pay in Europe or elsewhere. From the lake, you can then delve into the country's unique culture by visiting the indigenous markets and villages in the Guatemalan highlands. Lush Atitlan is a gorgeous, affordable place to stay in San Marcos La Laguna, the prettiest and most culturally interesting of Lake Atitlan's villages.

Where: Bonaire & Curaçao

Chosen By: Melinda Crow, founder of FirstRead.Me, whose motto is "Go more. Experience more. Enjoy it More."

Why: In the deep Southern Caribbean, Bonaire and Curaçao are always out there on the edge of everyone's Caribbean consciousness. Both are known for scuba diving, but also for other water sports, hiking and amazing secluded beaches. Vacation villas that let you live like a local are plentiful and affordable on both islands, but chain hotels like the Renaissance Curaçao Resort & Casino are an option on Curaçao (great if you're using points). Bonaire gets its very first chain hotel at the end of 2016 when a Marriott Courtyard opens.

Where: Las Vegas

Chosen By: Shereen Rayle, ShereenTravelsCheap.com

Why: If you can avoid the slots, there are lots of free things to do in Vegas: The Flamingo's flamingo habitat, the fountains and conservatory at the Bellagio and the outdoor movies at the Container Park are just a few. You can also find many places for cheap eats if you are willing to get off The Strip to do so. Check out the nearby Crown and Anchor, which serves up delicious British favorites, and Ninja Teriyaki Sushi 2 Go for fresh-made amazing sushi rolls in a no-frills setting.

Where: Cambodia

Chosen By: Michaela Guzy, Oh The People You Meet

Why: Sadly, the average income in Cambodia is about $950 per year. What does this mean for international travelers? Your international airfare might be expensive, but once you are in Cambodia, you can live well. Tuks tuks (a combo bike/taxi) and food cost just pennies. Even international hotel chains and luxury river boats down the Mekong are more affordable than other Asian destinations. Before visiting, I suggest doing your homework to support luxury companies like the Shinta Mani Resort, whose foundation plays a large role in its community, building water wells, schools and farms and providing the best healthcare in the country to its employees. Culturally conscious companies like Aqua Expeditions sustainably introduce their guests to the communities along the Mekong River, including the floating markets and the farmers in the rice fields; the company can even arrange a conversation with a local Buddhist monk to discuss the significance of his journey from childhood to monkhood. For advice on how to travel sustainably through the culturally rich Kingdom of Cambodia, see "Michaela's Map: How to Be a Responsible Traveler in Cambodia."

Where: Bali

Chosen By: Nastasia Yakoub, Dame Traveler

Why: If you're looking into an exotic long-haul trip, Bali offers a ton of high quality experiences for a great value. You can easily stay in a private villa overlooking stunning rice paddies with a private pool for around $50 per night. (Airbnb is a great way to go.) However, if you want to splurge a bit but not go overboard, a stay at a high-end luxury resort will still cost you less than a stay at a luxury resort, for example, in Maui. Not to mention, spa and transportation costs are quite low relative to other exotic locales, as well as the amazing and healthy food options that end up being a fraction of the cost elsewhere in the world.

Where: Greece

Chosen By: Holly Johnson, Club Thrifty

Why: The weakened euro has made any trip to Europe more affordable, but this is especially true in Greece. The struggling economy craves tourist dollars and makes it known with affordable pricing on everything from hotels to food. In Athens, you can book a three- or four-star hotel for well under $100, like 360 Degrees, a nice and modern hotel with a huge breakfast buffet included and an awesome location directly on Monastiraki Square. Throughout the countryside, prices may be even better. Best of all, you can sit down to an amazing Greek meal with drinks (Mythos or Ouzo?), appetizers (Saganaki, anyone?) and entrees of your choosing for less than half what you'd pay in the States. Heck, you can pick up Souvlaki or a gyro for $1-$2. Souvenirs are insanely cheap, too.

Where: Albania

Follow me on Twitter and Instagram and check out more of my work at laurabegleybloom.com.