Germany, Switzerland and Spain snub UK's cabin gadget ban
Germany, Switzerland and Spain REJECT UK's cabin gadget ban


Germany, Spain and Switzerland have rejected Britain's flight ban on cabin gadgets in a move defence experts fear will lead to gaping holes in security plans, it has emerged.

The three nations have confirmed they will not introduce a ban on large electronics such as iPads, Kindles and game consoles from cabins on flights from six terror hotspots in the Middle East and North Africa.

Britain's anti-terror measure affects UK-bound services from Turkey, Egypt, Tunisia, Lebanon, Jordan and Saudi Arabia and must be enforced by 14 airlines by Saturday.

But according to The Times, Germany, Spain and Switzerland will not introduce the restrictions sparking claims terrorists will try to exploit loopholes.

New ban: The ban on laptops from inside UK-bound flights from six countries follows fears terrorists may have perfected a bomb like the one that blew a hole in this Somalian plane last year (pictured)

The ban of carry-on electronics on flights was reportedly prompted by intelligence gathered about an ISIS plot to target the West. Above, the airports and countries targeted by the new American and British policies

Michael Clarke, former director general of the defence think tank, the Royal United Services Institute, told the Times there was 'potentially a huge loophole as it only applies to flights from those countries to the UK'.

He said: 'What is stopping terrorists from flying here from there via a European country?'

The policy announced in Britain yesterday has already caused chaos with airlines left in the dark about when it would begin and passengers told their gadgets won't be insured.

But passengers 'should go to the airport with the expectation that the measures are already in effect', the Department for Transport has said.

Experts have called it 'pointless' because they believe terrorists could still bring down a plane using a bomb in the luggage hold or they could just try to fly from an unaffected country.

Shashank Joshi, senior research fellow at security think-tank the Royal United Services Institute, said: 'This risks being seen as a form of pointless 'security theatre' which causes great disruption with little benefit to aviation security.'

In the dark: Passengers are turning up to flights not knowing if the ban applies, and this customer travelling back to the UK with BA from Turkey was not stopped

Confusion: Airlines affected including BA and easyJet admit they are still unsure when the ban will be started

Upset: Passengers are being forced to put electronics in the hold of planes but will not be protected if they are damaged

He added: 'It is unclear why only some airlines and countries are affected, given that a potential attacker can easily re-route their journey.

'The ban is also likely to cause further tension between the US and its Muslim-majority allies, compounding the problems caused by the Muslim-focused travel ban'.

Laptop ban: The countries and airlines caught up in chaos Under the new arrangements, phones, laptops and tablets will be banned from hand luggage from these countries on flights to the UK: Turkey Lebanon Egypt Saudi Arabia Jordan Tunisia Passengers travelling to Britain from these countries cannot carry large electronic items in the cabin on these UK airlines: British Airways EasyJet Jet2.com Monarch Thomas Cook Thomson And non-UK carriers: Turkish Airlines Pegasus Airways Atlas-Global Airlines Middle East Airlines Egyptair Royal Jordanian Tunis Air Saudia

Former British Army officer, Hamish de Bretton-Gordon, an expert on chemical and biological weapons and on the region, said: 'You could hide half a kilo of this in a laptop which could be enough to bring down a plane.'

Most smartphones, including the iPhone 7 Plus and Samsung Galaxy S7, will still be eligible to travel in cabin baggage.

There is already confusion among passengers because the Department for Transport, who announced the new rules yesterday, are referring them to the individual airlines about when it will start.

However carriers including British Airways and easyJet have said they are still waiting for more information from the Government about when it should be implemented.

BA says they are 'advising' customers to follow the new rules.

Some business customers are furious they won't be able to work on laptops during their flights while parents are concerned about how to occupy their children.

It is also still unclear what will happen to passengers who arrive at the gate with banned devices.

And airlines like Thomas Cook have confirmed they will not waive any charges for customers forced to check in bags and say their laptops and other electronics will have to be properly insured because they will not cover any damage.

This is because large electronics are not typically usually covered by basic travel insurance policies for loss, damage or theft if placed in the hold, and airlines do not take responsibility for any problems.

Cashing in: Airlines like Thomas Cook have confirmed they will not waive any charges for customers forced to check in bags - although some will be increasing weight allowances

Tongue in cheek: One customer asked about entertainment for children and affected airline Jet2 offered some suggestions

Air industry consultant John Strickland warned that the ban will cause 'headaches for airlines and customers' but said carriers have 'no choice but to put security first' when official advice is given.

Ban makes 'no sense', say experts The decision to ban UK-bound airline passengers from taking laptops onboard flights from six countries 'makes little sense', a security expert has warned. Matthew Finn, managing director of aviation security consultancy firm Augmentiq, questioned why the rules only apply to some flights. He told the Press Association: 'If there is indeed reliable intelligence of a credible threat that an improvised explosive device can be concealed within a consumer electronic device, then the question has to be how do we mitigate that risk for all aircraft leaving all destinations right across the board.' The ban will theoretically stop a terrorist on an affected flight from physically triggering a bomb concealed in a laptop and would ensure any explosion takes place in the hold, away from other passengers. Mr Finn suggested the regulations were not properly considered before being announced. 'Just banning a laptop from the cabin makes little sense if it's still available in the hold and could be detonated remotely using any manner of triggering device,' he said. 'The ban has been done without consultation with airlines, airports and security organisations. 'It's been put in very quickly without that very necessary consultation with the key players. 'Because it's specific to certain airlines and certain airports, that still leaves vulnerabilities from other airlines and other airports.'

He added: 'One unexpected consequence will be the challenge of additional devices with lithium batteries being stowed in the holds which brings its own challenges to safety.'

The move, which is likely to spark travel chaos at affected airports, was imposed just hours after a similar ban was unveiled by the United States.

It comes amid fears that Islamic State, al Qaeda and other terror groups have developed the capability to hide a bomb in a laptop big enough to blow a hole in the side of a plane.

The ban will affect travellers on direct flights to the UK from the popular holiday destination of Turkey, two north African countries - Egypt and Tunisia - and three Middle Eastern states; Lebanon, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia.

Passengers will be banned from takingSmartphones will be permitted in the cabin provided they are smaller than 16cm by 9.3cm by 1.5cm - typically the size of a large iPhone.

The move, which is the biggest clampdown on airline security since the 2006 liquids ban, was ordered by Theresa May yesterday following talks with security officials.

It follows weeks of discussions with the US security agencies about the growing threat of a laptop bomb.

It is understood that footage has emerged in recent days of Islamic State militants producing the explosive PETN, a major ingredient of Semtex, in a facility in Syria.

A former GCHQ officer said: 'Jihadists can get hold of semtex and C4 and store this in the laptop and get through the x-ray system.

'A suicide bomber would then sit by the window, and he would only need a small charge to blast the window to devastating effect.

'Passengers would be sucked out the aircraft in the scenario which is concerning security agencies.'

The ban applies to flights from Turkey, two north African countries – Egypt and Tunisia – and three Middle Eastern states: Lebanon, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia. Stock image

In February last year a bomb concealed in a laptop was used to blow a hole in the side of an aircraft after it took off from Mogadishu airport in Somalia, east Africa.

The US is said to have picked up further intelligence about the bomb-making capabilities of Islamist terrorists following a raid by US Navy Seals in January on a stronghold of the group al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsular in Yemen.

Intelligence sources also fear ISIS is manufacturing powerful explosives similar to Semtex in its stronghold in the Syrian city of Raqqa.

Last night Transport Secretary Chris Grayling acknowledged that the restrictions would lead to 'frustration' for passengers but said officials were working with airlines to 'minimise any impact',

Travellers who would otherwise have carried only hand luggage will be forced to pay extra fees for a checked bag if they want to use these gadgets at their destination.

Travel trade organisation Abta warned that laptops and tablets are not typically covered by travel insurance policies for loss, damage or theft if they are placed in the hold.

Government sources flatly denied that the decision to follow the US so quickly in imposing the new restrictions was designed to cosy up to Donald Trump and give succour to his controversial travel ban on Muslim majority countries.

They declined to comment on why other EU countries have yet to impose similar curbs.

But Whitehall sources pointed out that the UK has uniquely close intelligence co-operation with the US. It is understood that yesterday's announcement was driven by advice from the security services rather than as a result of political considerations.

As Britain bans electronic devices in cabins of flights from SIX countries, we explain what you can bring - and what to do with the things you can't

Laptop ban: What we know so far

What's happening?

Passengers flying from Turkey, Lebanon, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Tunisia to the UK have been banned from taking their laptops and other large electronic devices into the cabin. Instead they will have to check in these devices so they are stowed in the baggage hold. The ban applies to any electric devices larger than 16cm by 9.3cm by 1.5cm (6.3in by 3.6in by 0.6in) and includes iPads, oversized smartphones, DVD players, Kindles and small games consoles.

When does it start?

No official start date for the ban has been set as airlines will need time to implement the changes. But the Department for Transport says anyone flying from one of these locations must be prepared for it to be enforced immediately.

Does it just apply to direct flights?

No, it also applies to transfer flights. In other words, those travelling into the UK via one of the banned countries – and those travelling from a banned country via the UK to another destination.

Why is this happening?

The decision follows a similar ban by Donald Trump's administration. The US ban – which comes into force from Saturday afternoon – applies to ten airports in eight countries, also including Qatar and Kuwait. The US said it was concerned about recent attempts by terrorist groups to circumvent airport security and detonate bombs on planes – including the downing of a plane in Egypt in 2015 – and the armed attacks against airports in Brussels and Istanbul last year. US officials cited the failed attempt to down a plane in Somalia last year when a laptop containing a bomb was passed to a passenger after they had gone through security.

Why these countries?

Those included in the UK ban – all of which have large Muslim populations – are deemed to pose a high terrorist threat. The Government refused to explain why it did not follow the US example and extend the ban to Kuwait and Qatar.

Why is it safer to stow a laptop in the hold?

Security sources say that if a bomb is taken into the cabin, it takes only a minor explosion to blow out a window and bring the plane down. An explosion in the luggage hold is likely to be less catastrophic. It is also much harder for a terrorist to detonate the bomb if it is in the hold. At most airports passengers are told to take out their laptops and electronic devices from hand luggage when they go through security. But terrorists have still found ways to smuggle laptops containing explosive devices through security, without being detected by X-ray scanners.

How many flights are affected?

The Department for Transport said it could not disclose this for security reasons. But it is thought fewer than 200 flights a day travel from these six countries to the UK. Six UK airlines – British Airways, EasyJet, Jet2.com, Monarch, Thomas Cook and Thomson – will be affected, and eight overseas airlines: Turkish Airlines, Pegasus Airways, Atlas-Global Airlines, Middle East Airlines, Egyptair, Royal Jordanian, Tunis Air and Saudia.

How will the ban work?

This is where it becomes more sketchy. The Department for Transport has left it up to the airlines. Government officials have advised passengers who plan to travel to the UK from these countries to check with their airline, and to check the size of their devices. Travellers using check-in desks will be advised whether they need to stow their devices in the hold. Airlines are likely to arm staff with perspex letterbox-style tools to ensure devices do not exceed the size limit. There will also need to be secondary checks at the departure gate for passengers who checked in online. This is where the ban is likely to cause the most trouble – because these passengers will have only hand luggage and will be told they cannot take large devices on board.

What if my electronic device is too big?

This again depends on the airlines, but they appear to have been caught off-guard. BA last night said its flights would continue to operate as normal but urged passengers to check-in in good time and monitor its website for updates.

Should I cancel my flights to these countries?

No. The Department for Transport says it is not advising against flying to these countries. But it has urged those with imminent travel plans to contact their airline for more information.

How long will the ban last?

No timeframe has been given. But – as with the US – the ban is unlikely to be lifted until the threat recedes.

Will I have to pay extra to check a bag in?

Passengers could face extra costs if they want to take these types of devices away with them. Many travellers hoping to save money by choosing hand luggage-only fares now face extra baggage fees.

Will my gadgets still be insured?

Passengers should contact their insurer before putting expensive devices in checked baggage.