From Mermaid to man fairy: 69 new emoji revealed
From Mermaid to man fairy: 69 new emoji coming  this year revealed


From mythical to edible and emotional, the new emojis are said to have a little bit of everything – and then some.

Emojipedia has published 69 mockups of what the proposed tiny pictographs could look like when they hit users' keyboards this summer, which includes merpeople, male fairies and a woman breast-feeding.

The library could also include three gender inclusive emojis that are 'open to interpretation in terms of gender without implying masculine or feminine gender explicitly'.

Scroll down for videos

Users could expect to see mythical creatures such as zombies wizards and fairies, both male and female, and a mother breast-feeding her baby. Others are geared towards activities like relaxing in a sauna, rock climbing and yoga

'Original sample images from Emojipedia visualizing how new emojis may look when they come to fruition,' Emojipedia shared on its website.

'These mockups are created at the candidate stage, and may or may not resemble final versions from each platform vendor.'

The list will be finalized mid-2017 with the release of Unicode 10.0 and while the proposal reveals many new designs, it doesn't necessarily show exactly how they will look if accepted.

The list includes a number of mythical creatures, such as a vampire, a genie, an elf, merman and mermaid, fairy, and a zombie

EMOJIS SET FOR UNICODE 10.0 Grinning Face With One Large and One Small Eye T-Rex Women and Man Zombie Mermaid and Merman Shocked Face With Exploding Head Sandwhich Person With Headscarf Flying Saucer Giraffe Face Breast-Feeding Cricket Serious Face With Symbols Covering Mouth Woman Mage and Man Mage Brain Woman Vampire and Man Vampire Grinning Face With Star Eyes Broccoli Sauropod Woman Fair and Man Fairy Bearded Person Palms Up Together Woman Genie and Man Genie Pretzel Face With Monocle Curling Stone Woman Elf and Man Elf Hedgehog Cut of Meat Women Climbing and Man Climbing Woman in Lotus Position and Man in Lotus Position Wales flag Face With Finger Covering Closed Lips Face With Open Mouth Vomiting Coconut Scotland flag Woman in Steamy Room and Man in Steamy Room Takeout Box Chopsticks Smiling Face With Smiling Eyes and Hand Covering Mouth Child Adult Older Adult England flag Fortune Cookie Zebra Face I Love You Hand Sign Pie Billed Cap Canned Food Gloves Bowl With Spoon Coat Cup With Straw Sled Scarf Socks Orange Heart

A slew of new food items have made the list as well, including a pretzel, a coconut, a won-ton and broccoli – users can also text a freshly baked pie or sandwich.

And just when you thought there was an emoji for every emotion you have ever had, Unicode found others to express the way you feel even more.

There is a vomiting emoji, one that seems to be cursing and another blowing its top off.

And just when you thought there was an emoji for every emotion you have ever had, Unicode found others to express the way you feel even more. There is a vomiting emoji, one that seems to be cursing and another blowing its top off

The set will also include more serious emojis such as a person wearing a headscarf and another sporting a beard . Unicode will also offer it's first sent of gender inclusive emojis, which is the child, adult and older adult (three middle emojis)

However, the emojis are also coming with a more serious side and representing more types of people in the world.

There will be a woman breastfeeding, older people, people wearing headscarves and a person sporting a beard has been added to the library.

More animals will also make their way to your keyboard with the new release, including a giraffe face, cricket, a hedgehog and there will also be a few dinosaurs in the mix.

Unicode could also add more hand gestures, an orange heart and a group of animals, which includes a zebra and giraffe face, a hedge hog and two different dinosaurs. There might also be new clothes to choose from like gloves, a scarf, socks and a coat

Unicode would not release new emojis without some of them being food. Users could see a coconut, a fortune cooking, a cute of meat and a freshly baked pie. There might also be a can of what appears to be tomato sauce

But of course, the new update will also include numerous emojis that will be completely useless to some people.

There is a woman in a sauna, an emoji for bonspiel, a bowl with a spoon in it and a cup with a straw – and there will also be what appears to be a can of tomato sauce.

Unicode will also offer it's first sent of gender inclusive emojis, which is the child, adult and older adult.

And the set wouldn't be complete with emojis that seem completely useless like a sled and curling stone. But those living in England, Wales and Scotland will be happy to know that their flag could be added to the new list of emojis

'For purposes of emoji presentation, gender inclusive should be interpreted as a humanized appearance that employs visual cues that are common to all genders by excluding stereotypes that are either explicitly masculine or feminine, as can currently be observed in the MAN/BOY and WOMAN/GIRL emoj,' shared Unicode.

Social media giants have been making strides to diversify their emojis.

Last summer, Google revealed a series of new emojis in efforts to better capture the essence of its users.

The new emojis include 11 new professions, from rock star to scientist, each available in both male and female, and across all skin colors.

THE BIRTH OF THE EMOJI Shigetaka Kurita invented Emoji in 1998 while working for DoCoMo, a large Japanese mobile communication company. The goal was to develop a way for mobile phone users to send pictures back and forth without using much data. It all started in Japan, when users started to send pictures as a way to communicate. This was a time when mobile phones were young, so providers were already struggling to to support 80 million users. The idea was to create a one character 'code' that would display as an icon on the other person's device. DoKoMo i-mode, a mobile provider in Japan, was the first firm to allow users to add pictures of common used emoticons to their text messages.

In addition to this, 33 existing emojis are set to be updated to include a version for both genders.

The move comes after the Unicode Emoji Subcommittee agreed to the proposed changes, bringing the new looks to Android and other platforms.

'Most than 90 percent of the world's online population use emoji,' wrote Nicole Bleuel, Marketing Lead & Diversity Champion, Emoji, in the blog post.

'But while there's a huge range of emoji, there aren't a lot that highlight the diversity of women's careers, or empower young girls.'

The new emojis feature a rock star, welder, scientist, farmer, chef, and doctor, among others.

These will be available in male and female, with all skin tones.

Older emojis, like the running person, the haircut, and the weightlifter can now be changed between male and female.

'These new emoji are one of several efforts we're making to better represent women in technology, and to connect girls with the education and resources they need to pursue careers in STEM,' according to the blog post.

'One such effort is Made with Code, which helps girls pursue and express their passions using computer science.

Ahead of World Emoji Day this weekend, made with Code is releasing a new project that teaches coding skills through the creation of emoji-inspired stickers.

'We hope these updates help make emoji just a little more representative of the millions of people around the globe who use them.'

The Unicode team explained that it doesn't normally specify the gender for the emoji characters, instead assigning a neutral term to describe them.

The running emoji, for example, is 'runner,' not running man.

But, they say they've been working to address gender issues.