Samantha Bee: Trump's budget reveals he 'has no f*cking clue'
Samantha Bee: Trump's budget reveals he 'has no f*cking clue'
Samantha Bee opened her show on Wednesday with a massive eye-roll at Donald Trump's proposed federal budget cuts. The "hard power budget" guts energy, the EPA, education, etc. "Our President doesn't give a shit," Bee said. SEE ALSO: John Oliver lists the biggest 'f*ck you' funding cuts in Trump's budget Bee pointed out that Trump is falling out of favor to the point that members of his own party don't support the budget (Sen. Lindsey Graham called it "Dead on arrival). The episode also goes in on counterterrorism analyst (there's some excellent eye-rolling there too) Dr. Sebastian L. v Gorka , the "Trump Whisperer" the President frequently watches on Fox News (along with the rest of its lineup). Bee called Gorka "Jean-Claude Van Dumb" and scrutinized his questionable qualifications for the job of counterterrorism. James Corden shows his true colors in a hilarious behind the scenes mockumentary Josh Gad crashed the 'Late Late Show' with his own take on the  'Beauty and the Beast' soundtrack Stephen Colbert rips Republicans' new 'three-bucket' healthcare strategy James Corden shares a heartfelt message of solidarity with London after terror attack

Samantha Bee opened her show on Wednesday with a massive eye-roll at Donald Trump's proposed federal budget cuts. The "hard power budget" guts energy, the EPA, education, etc.

"Our President doesn't give a shit," Bee said.

Bee pointed out that Trump is falling out of favor to the point that members of his own party don't support the budget (Sen. Lindsey Graham called it "Dead on arrival).

The episode also goes in on counterterrorism analyst (there's some excellent eye-rolling there too) Dr. Sebastian L. v Gorka, the "Trump Whisperer" the President frequently watches on Fox News (along with the rest of its lineup). Bee called Gorka "Jean-Claude Van Dumb" and scrutinized his questionable qualifications for the job of counterterrorism.