Wolf spiders have distinct personalities
Wolf spiders have distinct personalities


Wolf spiders have a wide spectrum of personality, researchers have found.

Their behavior was once thought to be inflexible and hardwired in their DNA, but researchers have found that variable personality in individual spiders is partly due to mating experience.

Wolf spiders live and hunt alone but they engage in a unique courtship dance, often employing multiple forms of communication, including reading chemicals signals in female spun silk to find out if she is receptive, has already mated or even if she has cannibalized other males in the past

Scroll down for video

Wolf spiders like Schizocosa ocreata (pictured) woo females by raising their legs over their head while bouncing their body and fangs on the ground to create vibrations

More than 200 species of wolf spiders live in the United States.

They stalk their prey on the forest floor and in dry creek beds.

They live and hunting on their own except for mating encounters, which are the subject of two studies this year by University of Cincinnati (UC) graduate students.

One UC student, Emily Pickett, studied two closely related species that look alike and share habitat.

While the two spiders can interbreed, it's rare in the wild.

Ms Pickett found that their unique courtship behavior helps maintain stopped the two species from interbreeding.

One spider, Schizocosa ocreata, can woo females over a larger distance than the other, Schizocosa rovneri, by employing a combination of vibrations and visual signals unique to the species.

'We hypothesized that the two species diverged relatively recently, said Ms Picket.

'This gives us good insights into the modification of species - how one species develops into another.'

Since spiders don't hear in the same way humans do, they rely on vibrations, chemical cues and visual signals to communicate.

A second study by graduate student Madeline Lallo examined a third wolf spider, species, Gladicosa bellamyi, and found that males bounced their bodies and waved their pigmented forelegs like flags to get the attention of females.

The students and their co-author, UC biology professor Dr George Uetz, presented their research in March at the Midwest Ecology and Evolution Conference at the University of Illinois.

The University of Cincinnati (UC) is helping to turn wolf spiders into a model organism to study disease or environmental issues to benefit people

Dr Uetz is a spider expert and has co-authored 120 research papers on spiders about how spiders communicate, choose the best mate and learn from their mistakes.

Dr Uetz said that spider behavior relies on multiple sensory systems completely different from our own and those of other vertebrate animals.

Their visual, vibratory and chemical senses provide insights about the evolution of nervous systems and brain function.

Each new study begins at the Cincinnati Nature Center where researchers collect spiders in the forest.

They search for wolf spiders with LED flashlights which they say is easy at night because the spiders' eyes shine in the lamplight.

'They blend in really well with the leaf litter,' Ms Lallo said.

'But at night you can see all those eyes shining back.

'You have no idea how many spiders are actually in your backyard until you put a headlamp on and look,' she said.

Dr George Uetz (pictured), is a spider expert based at UC has co-authored 120 research papers on spiders about how spiders communicate, choose the best mate and learn from their mistakes

Researchers collect the spiders and sort them by species and sex.

The biology lab is home to as many as 1,800 spiders at any time, but they're not dangerous to humans as they're too small to bite them.

Researchers feed pinhead crickets to the spiders twice a week and the spiders drink from a sponge that soaks up water from a reservoir.

For Ms Lallo's study of the courtship behavior of Gladicosa bellamyi, she left a female overnight in a clear plastic bowl.

The bottom is covered in a paper disk that helps detect tiny vibrations whenever the spider walks, scratches or performs a courtship dance.

When the female is alone, she spins a trail of pheromone-containing silk that attracts male spiders.

Males can read chemical signals in silk to determine if a female is receptive, has already mated or even if it has cannibalized other males in the past, Dr Uetz said.

The University of Cincinnati's biology lab is home to as many as 1,800 spiders at any time, but they're not dangerous to humans as they're too small to bite them. Researchers feed pinhead crickets to the spiders twice a week and the spiders drink from a sponge that soaks up water from a reservoir

'They will either avoid those females completely—hide and try to be invisible—or else court furiously to overwhelm her senses,' Dr Uetz said.

The next day they place the paper on top of a device called a laser doppler vibrometer.

The laser beam converts vibrations in the paper into a digital file that researchers can compare side by side with other examples.

They drop a male in with the female and use a video camera and the vibrometer to record what happens.

The researchers also conducted a similar experiment with the Schizocosa ocreata species.

In about 10 per cent of Schizocosa ocreata mating encounter's, the female immediately eats the male.

The rate of cannibalism can be as high as half of the encounters in other species.

For a demonstration, the researchers paired two spiders and waited.

The ocreata is camouflaged with brindled brown and black fur, but the male's forelegs are covered in thick black bristles like a dancer's leg warmers.

The lab researchers names this mating dance 'the twerking spider'.

The male raises his legs over his head while bouncing his body and fangs on the ground to create vibrations.

Males that make the strongest vibrations generally are more successful in breeding, Dr Uetz said.

The researchers watched as the male began to wave his front legs and hit the filter paper.

University of Cincinnati graduate student Madeline Lallo, left, and biology professor Dr George Uetz, right, demonstrating equipment they use to study spider courtship behavior in the lab. They set up a laser doppler vibrometer in a soundproof room to record vibrations that courting spiders make in the soil or fallen leaves. Many species also use visual cues by waving their forelegs

'Here he goes,' Dr Uetz said.

'Here comes the female.

'Now look at her.

'She’s interested,' he said.

The female cautiously approached the male and did a curtsy - a spider invitation to mate, and the male bounced and waved.

'Yeah, she’s excited,' said Dr Uetz.

'It’s going to happen — unless the male gets a little skittish.'

Despite the female's invitation, the male ran to the edge of the arena where he resumed his dance slightly less enthusiastically.

University of Cincinnati researchers collected wolf spiders like this one, Schizocosa ocreata, from forests around southern Ohio. They search for wolf spiders with LED flashlights which they say is easy at night because the spiders' eyes shine in the lamplight

The female approached again and did anothercurtsy but the male again backed away.

'They were close but then she reared up slightly and scared him,' Dr Uetz said.

'She’s armed and dangerous,' Uetz said.

'She’s not being aggressive but he is clearly smaller than she is.

'He doesn’t have a lot of experience.'

After another minute of posing, the female suddenly chased the male in two laps around the arena.

Ms Lallo rescued him before the female may have killed him.

VIRTUAL REALITY EXPERIMENTS WITH WOLF SPIDERS In other experiments, Dr Uetz uses virtual reality to study spider communication. Spiders are placed in the arena in front of an iPod playing a video of a spider of the opposite sex. Researchers play recorded sound through the filter paper that mimics the vibrations observed from the dancing spider on the screen. This can elicit a mating response from the live spider. Wolf spiders are selective about mating only within their species. But researchers can use digital animation to build their own chimeras or virtual hybrids to determine precisely what about the opposite sex stimulates a mating response

The university’s research has found that each species of wolf spider engages in a unique courtship dance, often employing multiple forms of communication.

'It’s given us insights into the fact that this behavior is plastic,' said Dr Uetz.

'It’s learned.'

In other experiments, Dr Uetz uses virtual reality to study spider communication.

Spiders are placed in the arena in front of an iPod playing a video of a spider of the opposite sex.

Researchers play recorded sound through the filter paper that mimics the vibrations observed from the dancing spider on the screen.

This can elicit a mating response from the live spider.

Wolf spiders are selective about mating only within their species.

But researchers can use digital animation to build their own chimeras or virtual hybrids to determine precisely what about the opposite sex stimulates a mating response

Dr Uetz is now turning his attention to the variability of behaviors within species and the advantages and disadvantages of being a bold or shy spider.

If a male is too bold, he could get eaten by a female or passing bird.

If he is too timid, he could survive but miss any chance to pass on his genes.

'This strong selection pressure to get the message across leads to the evolution of complex, multi-sensory behaviors,' Dr Uetz said.

'He might contribute to future generations.

'Or he might be lunch.'