Did You Know Mixing Chocolate With Caffeine Can Ease Anxiety And Help You Focus Better?
Did You Know Mixing Chocolate With Caffeine Can Ease Anxiety And Help You Focus Better?
Did You Know Mixing Chocolate With Caffeine Can Ease Anxiety And Help You Focus Better? This is a good news for many of us who love coffee and chocolate both! Imagine you can start your morning by adding a spoon full of chocolate in your morning cup of coffee. Blissful isn’t it? A combination of chocolate and coffee helps in improving the attention, and control the feelings of anxiety, energy and fatigue. This is not us who is saying this but the researchers from Clarkson the University of Georgia recently explored the powers of cocoa and caffeine. The researchers studied the effects of various beverages had on “attention, motivation to perform cognitive work and feelings of anxiety, energy and fatigue." For this particular study, volunteers were asked to drink brewed cocoa, cocoa with caffeine, caffeine without cocoa, and a placebo (flavoured and coloured brewed water) with neither caffeine nor cocoa. Before they imbibed and then three times after drinking, participants took a series of tests to evaluate mood, attention and their motivation to perform cognitive tasks. Volunteers repeated the tests with each drink at least 48 hours apart at about the same time of day. This particular project found that cocoa lessens caffeine's anxiety-producing effects — a good reason to drink mocha lattes! According to this particular study, “Cocoa increases cerebral blood flow, which increases cognition and attention, caffeine alone can increase anxiety” said Ali Boolani, assistant professor of physical therapy. Participants who drank cocoa had quicker response rates than those who drank flavoured water. Those participants who drank cocoa plus caffeine had even higher accuracy rates than those who drank straight cocoa. The results were published in the journal BMC Nutrition. After the study, which was sponsored by the Hershey Company, the research team from Clarkson and the University of Georgia, concluded: Brewed cocoa can acutely reduce errors associated with attention in the absence of changes in either perceived motivation to perform cognitive tasks or feelings of energy and fatigue. Supplemental caffeine in brewed cocoa can enhance aspects of attention while brewed cocoa can attenuate the anxiety-provoking effects found from drinking caffeine alone. “The results of the tests are definitely promising and show that cocoa and caffeine are good choices for students and anyone else who needs to improve sustained attention,” says Boolani.

This is a good news for many of us who love coffee and chocolate both! Imagine you can start your morning by adding a spoon full of chocolate in your morning cup of coffee. Blissful isn’t it?

A combination of chocolate and coffee helps in improving the attention, and control the feelings of anxiety, energy and fatigue. This is not us who is saying this but the researchers from Clarkson the University of Georgia recently explored the powers of cocoa and caffeine. The researchers studied the effects of various beverages had on “attention, motivation to perform cognitive work and feelings of anxiety, energy and fatigue."

images.food52.com

For this particular study, volunteers were asked to drink brewed cocoa, cocoa with caffeine, caffeine without cocoa, and a placebo (flavoured and coloured brewed water) with neither caffeine nor cocoa. Before they imbibed and then three times after drinking, participants took a series of tests to evaluate mood, attention and their motivation to perform cognitive tasks. Volunteers repeated the tests with each drink at least 48 hours apart at about the same time of day.

This particular project found that cocoa lessens caffeine's anxiety-producing effects — a good reason to drink mocha lattes! According to this particular study, “Cocoa increases cerebral blood flow, which increases cognition and attention, caffeine alone can increase anxiety” said Ali Boolani, assistant professor of physical therapy.

Participants who drank cocoa had quicker response rates than those who drank flavoured water. Those participants who drank cocoa plus caffeine had even higher accuracy rates than those who drank straight cocoa. The results were published in the journal BMC Nutrition.

usatftw.files.wordpress.com

After the study, which was sponsored by the Hershey Company, the research team from Clarkson and the University of Georgia, concluded:

Brewed cocoa can acutely reduce errors associated with attention in the absence of changes in either perceived motivation to perform cognitive tasks or feelings of energy and fatigue. Supplemental caffeine in brewed cocoa can enhance aspects of attention while brewed cocoa can attenuate the anxiety-provoking effects found from drinking caffeine alone.

“The results of the tests are definitely promising and show that cocoa and caffeine are good choices for students and anyone else who needs to improve sustained attention,” says Boolani.