Government Reassures IT Industry On H-1B Visa Curbs, Says No Reason To Worry As Of Now
Government Reassures IT Industry On H-1B Visa Curbs, Says No Reason To Worry As Of Now
Government Reassures IT Industry On H-1B Visa Curbs, Says No Reason To Worry As Of Now The Central government has said there was no reason to worry about the curbs on H-1B visas or the job security of Indian IT professionals working in the US for the time being as the Indian government is in talks with the Trump administration on the matter. Foreign minister Sushma Swaraj on Thursday said regarding H-1B and L1 visas for professionals, four bills have come to the US Congress but they have not been passed. She said the government was engaging with the US at the highest level to ensure that the interests of Indian people or the IT industry are not affected. Also Read: In More Bad News For H1-B Visa Holders, US To Freeze Work Permits For Their Dependent Spouses Swaraj said the government was taking steps so that the four bills regarding H-1B and L1 visas are not passed in such a form. The foreign secretary had met US Congress members who had been all praise for Indians, the minister said. "So there is no reason to worry about it as of now," she added. Addressing concerns by MPs during the Question Hour in Rajya Sabha, Swaraj said it would not be correct to say that there has been a change in the US policies after the Trump administration has come to power. She pointed out that even before Donald Trump became President, there had been a "flip-flop" in the H-1B visa policy by the US . "In 1990 when H1B visas were first introduced, the cap was 65,000. In 2000, during NDA, it was raised to 1,95,000 for three years. In 2004 the number of these visas was again reversed to 65,000 by the US. So there has been a flip-flop on this policy even before Donald Trump government," she said.

The Central government has said there was no reason to worry about the curbs on H-1B visas or the job security of Indian IT professionals working in the US for the time being as the Indian government is in talks with the Trump administration on the matter.

Reuters/representational image

Foreign minister Sushma Swaraj on Thursday said regarding H-1B and L1 visas for professionals, four bills have come to the US Congress but they have not been passed.

She said the government was engaging with the US at the highest level to ensure that the interests of Indian people or the IT industry are not affected.

Also Read: In More Bad News For H1-B Visa Holders, US To Freeze Work Permits For Their Dependent Spouses

Swaraj said the government was taking steps so that the four bills regarding H-1B and L1 visas are not passed in such a form. The foreign secretary had met US Congress members who had been all praise for Indians, the minister said. "So there is no reason to worry about it as of now," she added.

"We are conveying to them that IT professionals are not stealing jobs but contributing to the US economy and making it stronger."

Addressing concerns by MPs during the Question Hour in Rajya Sabha, Swaraj said it would not be correct to say that there has been a change in the US policies after the Trump administration has come to power.

Reuters/representational image

She pointed out that even before Donald Trump became President, there had been a "flip-flop" in the H-1B visa policy by the US .

"In 1990 when H1B visas were first introduced, the cap was 65,000. In 2000, during NDA, it was raised to 1,95,000 for three years. In 2004 the number of these visas was again reversed to 65,000 by the US. So there has been a flip-flop on this policy even before Donald Trump government," she said.

Don't Miss 31.7 K SHARES 5.6 K SHARES 111.2 K SHARES 47.8 K SHARES 24.2 K SHARES

Also Read: Indian IT Companies Get A Temporary Relief As US Will Take Time To Make New H-1B Visa Rules

The minister also informed the House that the visa facility extended to the spouse of the Indian professionals has not been withdrawn by the US so far.

Inputs From TNN