Despite Failing Economy And Rising Unemployment, Italians Are The World's Healthiest People. Here's What We Can Learn From Them!
Here's What We Can Learn From Italians Who Are The World's Healthiest People
Even With A Struggling Economy Italians Are The World's Healthiest People. Here's What We Can Learn From Them! Despite a contracting economy and rising rates of unemployment, according to its recent Global Health Index. T  So how is it that a child raised on a diet inclusive of pasta, cheese, red wine, and meat be expected to live in a healthy state for so long? They follow a Mediterranean diet A landmark trial (PREDIMED) along with several well-researched studies supports the claim that , as stated in a review published in last year. They maintain an ideal proportion of food on their plate The authentic Italian dish serves up generous servings of fresh vegetables, whole grains, olive oil, lean meats, red wine, a small portion of red meat, and just the right amount of carbohydrates. Also, as one of the best available monounsaturated oils,  Plus the ingredients they use are fresh as purported by the Adam Drewnowski, the director of the Centre for Public Health Nutrition at the University of Washington who wrote about the .

Despite a contracting economy and rising rates of unemployment, Bloomberg has heralded Italy as the healthiest countries on the planet according to its recent Global Health Index.

T he study reveals that a baby born in Italy can live to be an octogenarian!

winetable.com

So how is it that a child raised on a diet inclusive of pasta, cheese, red wine, and meat be expected to live in a healthy state for so long?

They follow a Mediterranean diet

A landmark trial (PREDIMED) along with several well-researched studies supports the claim that following a traditional Mediterranean diet is ideal to prevent cardiovascular diseases, as stated in a review published in BMC Med last year.

smithsmagazine.co.uk

The Mediterranean diet consists of plants, fruits and vegetables, whole grains, bread, legumes, potatoes, nuts, and seeds, red wine, moderate amounts of lean meats, dairy, and extra virgin olive oil.

They maintain an ideal proportion of food on their plate

The authentic Italian dish serves up generous servings of fresh vegetables, whole grains, olive oil, lean meats, red wine, a small portion of red meat, and just the right amount of carbohydrates.

lonelyplanet.com

Also, as one of the best available monounsaturated oils, extra virgin olive oil, is extensively used for cooking and as a salad dressing, but in moderation, since it still qualifies as fat!

sites.google.com

Plus the ingredients they use are fresh as purported by the Adam Drewnowski, the director of the Centre for Public Health Nutrition at the University of Washington who wrote about the importance of consumers having access to fresh produce.

Don't Miss 65.5 K SHARES 10.9 K SHARES 3.5 K SHARES 740 SHARES 1.2 K SHARES

They indulge in healthy snacking

Italians don’t shy away from snacking and embrace it as part of their overall diet. Looking at snacking with this outlook helps people make healthier and smarter choices in just the right amounts.

m.womenonly.gr

Nutritionist Pietro Migliaccio, the president of the Italian Society of Food Science in an interview to NYMAG recommends the following items and proportions for a mid-afternoon snack:

urbanistinsider.com

Low-fat yoghurt (125 grams), a cereal bar, or an orange juice; or a cappuccino with a teaspoon of sugar; 20 grams of chocolate; a popsicle; a tiny gelato; or tea with a teaspoon of sugar and two or three miniature pastries.

They unwind and dine casually

Socialising and relaxing is the name of the game when it comes to dining in Italy. Italy, just like a lot of the other Mediterranean countries, relishes the experience of having dinner. You would often see them stroll before or after dinner.

calgary.worldhealth.ca

They’re also not very concerned with their overall calorie intake because they are usually mindful of what they eat and stop eating when they feel full.