Sometimes Cancer Is Just Bad Luck
Sometimes Cancer Is Just Bad Luck
Don’t smoke. Wear sunscreen. Eat broccoli. Avoid couches ? For decades, the public has been warned of the link between exposure to all sorts of toxins and cancer. But according to a new study published on Thursday in , two-thirds of the gene mutations that cause the dreaded affliction in humans aren’t driven by the environment or even hereditary factors. They are the result of random DNA replication errors—or, as one of the researchers put it, “bad luck.” While a family history of cancer or bad habits such as smoking are causes of gene mutations, random replication errors that occur during normal cell division are a much bigger driver, according to the researchers. “Most of the time, these mutations don’t cause any harm,” said Bert Vogelstein, co-director of the Ludwig Center at the Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center. He noted that usually, these mutations occur in unimportant places in the human DNA. “Occasionally, they occur in the cancer driver gene, and that’s bad luck.” Following earlier research done in the U.S. , Vogelstein and Cristian Tomasetti, of the Division of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics at Johns Hopkins, evaluated the incidence of cancer in 69 countries with a combined population of 4.8 billion. Across vastly different environments, they found a strong correlation between cancer and normal stem cell divisions. In other words, the more times the cells in a type of tissue divide over a lifetime, the more likely that tissue will develop cancer. This was true regardless of population and environment. The researchers estimated that 66 percent of the mutations that drive cancer are from random replication errors over time; 29 percent are driven by environmental factors; and 5 percent are hereditary. Vogelstein said he expects that 66 percent figure to increase. “As people age,” he said, “their cells will divide more, and a greater fraction of the mutations will turn out to be random replication factors.” Represents 18 types of cancer and the proportion caused by each factor. However, Tomasetti noted that most cancers aren’t caused by one mutation, but rather by three or more. To illustrate the way mutations drive cancer, the researchers point to adenocarcinoma, a common lung cancer for which no hereditary factors have been identified. The vast majority of adenocarcinomas are preventable, with tobacco smoke as a top environmental cause. Drawing on genome-sequencing and epidemiological data, the researchers show that approximately 90 percent of the mutations are caused by a combination of environmental and random replication errors. That means, Tomasetti said, that 90 percent are preventable because you need an environmental factor random genetic error. “If one of the mutations is caused by environmental factors, if we can prevent that mutation, then that patient would not have cancer,” he said. Thus, random replication errors alone cause cancer in only 10 percent of adenocarcinoma patients, while the other 90 percent require smoking, second-hand smoke, or some other environmental exposure as well. The recognition of the role played by random replication errors shouldn’t diminish the importance of primary prevention, the paper states. Instead, it should serve as a reminder of the need for secondary prevention, in the form of early detection and intervention. So keep eating that broccoli—but don’t use a salad as a substitute for a mammogram or a PSA test. And if cancer is detected, don’t necessarily blame yourself. “One of the practical ramifications of this research is that we hope it will avoid people feeling guilty about their cancers,” Vogelstein said. “Those who have done what they should—all the preventative measures—and still get it, they need to understand that these cancers would have occurred, no matter what they did.”

Don’t smoke. Wear sunscreen. Eat broccoli. Avoid couches?

For decades, the public has been warned of the link between exposure to all sorts of toxins and cancer. But according to a new study published on Thursday in Science, two-thirds of the gene mutations that cause the dreaded affliction in humans aren’t driven by the environment or even hereditary factors. They are the result of random DNA replication errors—or, as one of the researchers put it, “bad luck.”

While a family history of cancer or bad habits such as smoking are causes of gene mutations, random replication errors that occur during normal cell division are a much bigger driver, according to the researchers. “Most of the time, these mutations don’t cause any harm,” said Bert Vogelstein, co-director of the Ludwig Center at the Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center. He noted that usually, these mutations occur in unimportant places in the human DNA. “Occasionally, they occur in the cancer driver gene, and that’s bad luck.”

Following earlier research done in the U.S., Vogelstein and Cristian Tomasetti, of the Division of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics at Johns Hopkins, evaluated the incidence of cancer in 69 countries with a combined population of 4.8 billion. Across vastly different environments, they found a strong correlation between cancer and normal stem cell divisions. In other words, the more times the cells in a type of tissue divide over a lifetime, the more likely that tissue will develop cancer. This was true regardless of population and environment.

The researchers estimated that 66 percent of the mutations that drive cancer are from random replication errors over time; 29 percent are driven by environmental factors; and 5 percent are hereditary. Vogelstein said he expects that 66 percent figure to increase. “As people age,” he said, “their cells will divide more, and a greater fraction of the mutations will turn out to be random replication factors.”

Represents 18 types of cancer and the proportion caused by each factor. C. Tomasetti et al., Science (2017)

However, Tomasetti noted that most cancers aren’t caused by one mutation, but rather by three or more.

To illustrate the way mutations drive cancer, the researchers point to adenocarcinoma, a common lung cancer for which no hereditary factors have been identified. The vast majority of adenocarcinomas are preventable, with tobacco smoke as a top environmental cause. Drawing on genome-sequencing and epidemiological data, the researchers show that approximately 90 percent of the mutations are caused by a combination of environmental and random replication errors.

That means, Tomasetti said, that 90 percent are preventable because you need an environmental factor in addition to random genetic error. “If one of the mutations is caused by environmental factors, if we can prevent that mutation, then that patient would not have cancer,” he said. Thus, random replication errors alone cause cancer in only 10 percent of adenocarcinoma patients, while the other 90 percent require smoking, second-hand smoke, or some other environmental exposure as well.

The most important business stories of the day. Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.

The recognition of the role played by random replication errors shouldn’t diminish the importance of primary prevention, the paper states. Instead, it should serve as a reminder of the need for secondary prevention, in the form of early detection and intervention. So keep eating that broccoli—but don’t use a salad as a substitute for a mammogram or a PSA test. And if cancer is detected, don’t necessarily blame yourself.

“One of the practical ramifications of this research is that we hope it will avoid people feeling guilty about their cancers,” Vogelstein said. “Those who have done what they should—all the preventative measures—and still get it, they need to understand that these cancers would have occurred, no matter what they did.”