Texas police chief arrested following chase, standoff
Texas police chief arrested following chase, standoff
Normangee Police Chief Charles Herford, who was arrested on Wednesday, March 22, 2017, following a chase and standoff at his home, where a dispatcher reported hearing gunshots during a call with Herford’s wife.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  The police chief of an eastern Texas town was arrested Wednesday following a standoff with sheriff’s deputies at his home, reports CBS affiliate KBTX . Charles Herford, the chief of the Normangee Police Department, was booked into the Leon County Jail on charges of deadly conduct and evading in a motor vehicle. Texas Department of Public Safety Trooper Jimmy Morgan told the station that just before 2:00 a.m., deputies received a 911 call from Herford’s wife, who was crying. During the initial conversation officials lost contact. A dispatcher called back, Herford’s wife answered, and the dispatcher soon heard what sounded like a gunshot. As sheriff’s deputies responded to the scene, they noticed Herford’s police unit driving through town and attempted to stop him. Trooper Morgan says Herford eluded law enforcement, but officers continued to search for him. For nearly three hours, law enforcement continued searching for Herford and, according to Trooper Morgan, there were “conversations” via radio between Herford and the sheriff’s office. Around 5:30 a.m., law enforcement was informed that Herford had returned to his home. State troopers, deputies, local police officers and the Texas Rangers all descended upon on the home. Around 7 a.m., Herford surrendered. No one was hurt during the five hour incident, Morgan said.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

NORMANGEE, Texas — The police chief of an eastern Texas town was arrested Wednesday following a standoff with sheriff’s deputies at his home, reports CBS affiliate KBTX.

Charles Herford, the chief of the Normangee Police Department, was booked into the Leon County Jail on charges of deadly conduct and evading in a motor vehicle.

Texas Department of Public Safety Trooper Jimmy Morgan told the station that just before 2:00 a.m., deputies received a 911 call from Herford’s wife, who was crying. During the initial conversation officials lost contact. A dispatcher called back, Herford’s wife answered, and the dispatcher soon heard what sounded like a gunshot.

As sheriff’s deputies responded to the scene, they noticed Herford’s police unit driving through town and attempted to stop him. Trooper Morgan says Herford eluded law enforcement, but officers continued to search for him.

For nearly three hours, law enforcement continued searching for Herford and, according to Trooper Morgan, there were “conversations” via radio between Herford and the sheriff’s office.

Around 5:30 a.m., law enforcement was informed that Herford had returned to his home.

State troopers, deputies, local police officers and the Texas Rangers all descended upon on the home. Around 7 a.m., Herford surrendered.

No one was hurt during the five hour incident, Morgan said.