How to sell your home: Property stylists reveal cosmetic secrets behind locking a sale
How to sell your home: Property stylists reveal cosmetic secrets behind locking a sale
Thinking about selling your house? Aside from figuring out your finances and picking an estate agent there’s one thing that could help shift it quickly and even get you a higher offer. Property stylists Coco Republic know a thing or two about peddling properties and according to them, it’s all about preparing your home for viewers, Daily Mail Australia reports. Otherwise known as “staging”, the way you style your house will not only ensure your property is sold faster but can potentially add thousands of pounds to its value.   Interior design on a budget: the best cheap but chic interiors brands So what should you be doing? Most buyers form their first impressions within seconds of approaching a home so make sure the windows are clean, the driveway is fresh and the garden is properly preened. Similarly, it’s important to stick to a neutral palette on the interior walls and floors, as this will create a sense of pristineness and space. Home interiors: Be brave and do it yourself               Home interiors: Be brave and do it yourself                                           The most effective way to sell your home though is to make buyers feel at home so it’s worthwhile assessing what objects are in view. This is achieved best by de-cluttering and removing any personal photos to create a minimalist space. But there are some objects that can actually improve the environment. As such, adding finishing touches like scented candles, plants and fruit bowls help to add interest and balance to the space.   30% of owners trim asking prices as well-priced homes sell in 71 days Try thinking of selling your home as more than just that - really it’s about promoting an entire lifestyle, so anything you can do to brighten or inject a little life into each room will help. The stylists even suggest adding items like cookbooks in the kitchen or paintings of horses throughout the house. Apparently, this helps to add dimension and help the buyer visualise living in that space. More about: home interiors interior design estate agency interior decorating Comments

Thinking about selling your house? Aside from figuring out your finances and picking an estate agent there’s one thing that could help shift it quickly and even get you a higher offer.

Property stylists Coco Republic know a thing or two about peddling properties and according to them, it’s all about preparing your home for viewers, Daily Mail Australia reports.

Otherwise known as “staging”, the way you style your house will not only ensure your property is sold faster but can potentially add thousands of pounds to its value.

So what should you be doing?

Most buyers form their first impressions within seconds of approaching a home so make sure the windows are clean, the driveway is fresh and the garden is properly preened.

Similarly, it’s important to stick to a neutral palette on the interior walls and floors, as this will create a sense of pristineness and space.

The most effective way to sell your home though is to make buyers feel at home so it’s worthwhile assessing what objects are in view.

This is achieved best by de-cluttering and removing any personal photos to create a minimalist space.

But there are some objects that can actually improve the environment. As such, adding finishing touches like scented candles, plants and fruit bowls help to add interest and balance to the space.

Try thinking of selling your home as more than just that - really it’s about promoting an entire lifestyle, so anything you can do to brighten or inject a little life into each room will help.

The stylists even suggest adding items like cookbooks in the kitchen or paintings of horses throughout the house.

Apparently, this helps to add dimension and help the buyer visualise living in that space.