Teenager on Westminster Bridge during London terror attack describes moment he was hit
Teenager on Westminster Bridge during London terror attack describes moment he was hit
A student injured in the Westminster terror attack was thrown over the bonnet of the killer’s car as the carnage began, his mother has said. Travis Frain, 19, was walking across Westminster Bridge with other youngsters when he was mown down by the car. Seconds later, the politics student, who wants to become an MP, called his mother to say: “Mum I'm safe... I know you will be worrying.” He suffered a fractured leg, fractured left arm, cuts to his thigh and two broken fingers and will be operated on later today at King's College Hospital, London. Mr Frain, a politics and history undergraduate had been with 12 other students from Edge Hill University in Ormskirk, to watch Prime Minister’s questions in Parliament. Read more Man stops to take a selfie in front of Westminster attack victims Defiant Londoners return to work after Westminster terror attack Biggest Muslim group in the UK condemns London attack Archbishop hits out at ‘perverted' worldview of Westminster terrorist His mother, Angela Frain, 46, from Darwen, Lancs, said: “He loves politics, that is his ideal trip, going to Parliament. He was probably buzzing with excitement. I think he would love to be an MP.” She said they had a break for an hour so came out of Parliament. “He just said that he came out, they were walking along the bridge, it literally happened that fast I don't think he knew what had happened. I think it hit him on his side and he went over the bonnet.” Mrs Frain, a teacher, said another group of students from the college where she works were also in London when she heard the news. She added: “Then I thought, ‘My son is in London’. He was not picking up on his phone. “Then the police rang me. Just shock really, it was only within seconds I learned there was an incident in London and got this telephone call. Obviously I was relieved to speak to him. He just said, ‘Mum I'm safe, I'm just letting you know, I know you will be worrying.’ I think I asked him a thousand questions all at once. “He's very mature and sensible, I'm sure he will take it all in his stride.” In pictures: Westminster attack               In pictures: Westminster attack       An air ambulance lands after gunfire sounds were heard close to the Palace of Westminster in London   PA wire        MPs wait until the situation is under control in Westminster. 'The alleged assailant was shot by armed police,' David Lidington, leader of the House of Commons, told the house.   BBC News        Crowds gather in Westminster after shooting incident, which police are treating as terror attack   BBC News        Police were also called to an incident on Westminster Bridge nearby   AP        Early reports indicate the car, which mounted the pavement on Westminster Bridge and mowed into around a dozen people, was the same vehicle which then rammed into the railings of the Palace of Westminster, just around the corner   Reuters        Security sources described the suspected assailant as a middle-aged Asian man, who is understood to have left the car before attacking a police officer with a seven-to-eight inch knife   PA wire        Police have asked people to avoid the immediate area to allow emergency services to deal with the ongoing incident   AP        One woman has died and a number of others, including the police officer, have been hurt, according to a junior doctor at St Thomas' Hospital   Reuters        At least three gun shots were heard by those inside Westminster, and proceedings in the House of Commons have been suspended   AP  Mrs Frain is travelling to London to be with her son. She added: “He will be staying in hospital for a few days, he's going to have an operation tonight. “I think he was absolutely exhausted. He's up and down really, in the moment you just get on with it. The Metropolitan Police has been fantastic with him thankfully. “I have not given any thought to the attack as such. Travis is my number one priority. I'm just very thankful. We have been very lucky.” Three other students from the group were injured but have been released from hospital. Among those injured was Owen Lambert, 18, from Morecambe, Lancs, who needed stitches to a head wound. More about: Westminster attack Comments

A student injured in the Westminster terror attack was thrown over the bonnet of the killer’s car as the carnage began, his mother has said. Travis Frain, 19, was walking across Westminster Bridge with other youngsters when he was mown down by the car.

Seconds later, the politics student, who wants to become an MP, called his mother to say: “Mum I'm safe... I know you will be worrying.”

He suffered a fractured leg, fractured left arm, cuts to his thigh and two broken fingers and will be operated on later today at King's College Hospital, London. Mr Frain, a politics and history undergraduate had been with 12 other students from Edge Hill University in Ormskirk, to watch Prime Minister’s questions in Parliament.

His mother, Angela Frain, 46, from Darwen, Lancs, said: “He loves politics, that is his ideal trip, going to Parliament. He was probably buzzing with excitement. I think he would love to be an MP.”

She said they had a break for an hour so came out of Parliament. “He just said that he came out, they were walking along the bridge, it literally happened that fast I don't think he knew what had happened. I think it hit him on his side and he went over the bonnet.”

Mrs Frain, a teacher, said another group of students from the college where she works were also in London when she heard the news. She added: “Then I thought, ‘My son is in London’. He was not picking up on his phone.

“Then the police rang me. Just shock really, it was only within seconds I learned there was an incident in London and got this telephone call. Obviously I was relieved to speak to him. He just said, ‘Mum I'm safe, I'm just letting you know, I know you will be worrying.’ I think I asked him a thousand questions all at once.

“He's very mature and sensible, I'm sure he will take it all in his stride.”

In pictures: Westminster attack







9 show all In pictures: Westminster attack















1/9 An air ambulance lands after gunfire sounds were heard close to the Palace of Westminster in London PA wire

2/9 MPs wait until the situation is under control in Westminster. 'The alleged assailant was shot by armed police,' David Lidington, leader of the House of Commons, told the house. BBC News

3/9 Crowds gather in Westminster after shooting incident, which police are treating as terror attack BBC News

4/9 Police were also called to an incident on Westminster Bridge nearby AP

5/9 Early reports indicate the car, which mounted the pavement on Westminster Bridge and mowed into around a dozen people, was the same vehicle which then rammed into the railings of the Palace of Westminster, just around the corner Reuters

6/9 Security sources described the suspected assailant as a middle-aged Asian man, who is understood to have left the car before attacking a police officer with a seven-to-eight inch knife PA wire

7/9 Police have asked people to avoid the immediate area to allow emergency services to deal with the ongoing incident AP

8/9 One woman has died and a number of others, including the police officer, have been hurt, according to a junior doctor at St Thomas' Hospital Reuters

9/9 At least three gun shots were heard by those inside Westminster, and proceedings in the House of Commons have been suspended AP

Mrs Frain is travelling to London to be with her son.

She added: “He will be staying in hospital for a few days, he's going to have an operation tonight.

“I think he was absolutely exhausted. He's up and down really, in the moment you just get on with it. The Metropolitan Police has been fantastic with him thankfully.

“I have not given any thought to the attack as such. Travis is my number one priority. I'm just very thankful. We have been very lucky.”

Three other students from the group were injured but have been released from hospital.

Among those injured was Owen Lambert, 18, from Morecambe, Lancs, who needed stitches to a head wound.