CBO releases new score of GOP health care bill
Revised GOP health bill still leaves 24M more uninsured after decade, CBO says
Shares               A new report from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the GOP ’s health care bill says that the revised version would have similar effects on health insurance coverage and premiums, and a smaller effect on reducing the federal deficit than initially predicted. The CBO’s initial estimate, released last Monday, projected that 14 million people more people would be uninsured next year than would be under the Affordable Care Act , or Obamacare. That number was estimated to rise to 24 million by 2026. The new report states of the revised version that "estimates differ by no more than half a million people in any category in any year over the next decade." Republican supporters of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) were quick to focus on the CBO's calculation that the law would eventually reduce the deficit by $337 billion over the next decade in the initial version of the bill. However, that number has now been reduced by $186 billion to $151 billion in deficit reduction over the 2017-2026 period in the revised version.     The new report is adjusted for the changes House Republicans made to the AHCA bill late Monday night. A number of the revisions focused on Medicaid, including the option for states to require individuals to provide proof of work to qualify for the program. The House vote on the AHCA, originally scheduled for Thursday, has been delayed and is expected to take place Friday morning. The White House is "confident" that the bill will pass, according to deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. Shares                  Revised GOP health bill still leaves 24M more uninsured after decade, CBO says   Trump climbs into big rig, pretends to be a trucker   Trump Hotel in DC not in violation of government lease, GSA says   Health bill vote set for Friday as Trump draws line in the sand   GOP health care plan would hit people in counties Trump won hardest   Why 'essential benefits' are sticking point in Obamacare overhaul   Intel chair unsure if Trump associates were directly surveilled   GOP rep under investigation for potential campaign finance violations   Schumer: Democrats will filibuster Trump SCOTUS nominee Gorsuch   A timeline of Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping claims   House intel chair apologizes for briefing White House before ranking member   The Note: The crucial health care vote   Father seeks to clear name of Germanwings co-pilot Lubitz   4 found dead in Sacramento; 1 arrested in San Francisco   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   Wallet returned to owner after 8 years with $141 inside   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   4-year-old honored after 911 call saves mom's life   WWII veteran surprised on 100th birthday   Little girl from Atlanta snatches pope's skullcap   Apple cuts prices on lower-end iPads, releases red iPhones

A new report from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the GOP’s health care bill says that the revised version would have similar effects on health insurance coverage and premiums, and a smaller effect on reducing the federal deficit than initially predicted.

The CBO’s initial estimate, released last Monday, projected that 14 million people more people would be uninsured next year than would be under the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare.

That number was estimated to rise to 24 million by 2026. The new report states of the revised version that "estimates differ by no more than half a million people in any category in any year over the next decade."

Republican supporters of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) were quick to focus on the CBO's calculation that the law would eventually reduce the deficit by $337 billion over the next decade in the initial version of the bill. However, that number has now been reduced by $186 billion to $151 billion in deficit reduction over the 2017-2026 period in the revised version.

The new report is adjusted for the changes House Republicans made to the AHCA bill late Monday night. A number of the revisions focused on Medicaid, including the option for states to require individuals to provide proof of work to qualify for the program.

The House vote on the AHCA, originally scheduled for Thursday, has been delayed and is expected to take place Friday morning.

The White House is "confident" that the bill will pass, according to deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.