Matt Miller's Scouting Notebook: Latest Pro Day Buzz and Updated 2017 Mock Draft
Matt Miller's Scouting Notebook: Latest Pro Day Buzz and Updated 2017 Mock Draft
NFL general managers are paid big money to be decision-makers. Who to sign, who to cut, what trades to take and which to turn down. But at the heart of running the team, you must be able to identify and evaluate talent. And that's why pro days are huge. But what do you do when multiple Power Five schools schedule a pro day on the same date? "Run like hell" is what one general manager told me. You also delegate. One team I spoke with sends the general manager to one workout and the director of college scouting to another while keeping the director of player personnel in-office to run the phones and focus on free agency and setting the draft board. You always want one guy with decision-making ability there. Just in case. For the other pro days, scouts will be assigned to hit them and update the numbers in the team's database following the workout. As teams hit the road on Thursday for pro days at Missouri, Notre Dame, Ohio State and Stanford, here's what's happening in the world of the NFL. Updated one-round mock draft Another top player hurt at a pro day Five names to know Scouting in 140 Fixing the Cleveland Browns  The Scout's Report NFL Network's Kimberly Jones reported Bill Belichick, Todd Bowles, Mike Tomlin, Hue Jackson, John Harbaugh, Mike Mularkey, Sean Payton, Jim Caldwell and Marvin Lewis were all in attendance, as well as seven NFL general managers, including the New York Jets' Mike Maccagnan and Marc Ross, vice president of player evaluation for the New York Giants. —Top players Gareon Conley, Marshon Lattimore, Patrick Elflein, Curtis Samuel and Raekwon McMillan all chose to stand on their NFL Scouting Combine 40-yard dash times and did not run , per Jacob Myers of . —Linebacker McMillan went through drills during the workout, and a scout at the event texted me that he looked "smooth, easy-moving, caught the ball well. We like him in Round 2." —Conley and Lattimore stood on their combine numbers, but both went through drills. A coach at the workout texted that Lattimore "is one of the best athletes I've ever seen at corner. He should be a top-five pick." —Said another scout, "these two [corners] could be the first two off the board. They're damn near perfect."  —Edge-rusher improved his vertical jump with a 37.5-inch leap, up from 32 inches at the combine. He was also timed at 7.03 seconds in the three-cone. —Harris did drill work, and a scout who was on the scene texted: "I don't care what his 40 time was, this kid can bend." Said another, "Where was the production as a [redshirt junior]? He was average. Not a fan." —Pittsburgh Steelers linebackers coach Joey Porter , Jets linebackers coach Kevin Greene and Bengals linebackers coach Jim Haslett were all spotted at the workout, according to Twitter posts from local media.  —San Francisco 49ers head coach Kyle Shanahan was on hand for the Stanford pro day, as was Carolina Panthers head coach Ron Rivera, according to a source with the team. — Christian McCaffrey and Solomon Thomas opted to stand on their combine testing times and did drill work only. Auburn's Carl Larson with Something to Prove on Pro Day What Changed for Tony Romo on Day 1 of NFL Free Agency? Dirt Monster' Solomon Thomas Is Ready to Be King the of Trenches in NFL Oklahoma State's Jordan Sterns on Pro Day Performance What Will It Take for Tony Romo to Land in Denver? Tony Romo Says Goodbye to Cowboys Deal Alert: Grading Alshon Jeffery to Philadelphia Eagles Free Agent Signing Matt Miller's Winners and Losers from the NFL Combine Deal Alert: Grading DeSean Jackson to Tampa Bay Buccaneers Free Agent Signing Insider Buzz: Deep CB Draft Class Helped Patriots Outbid Teams for Gilmore Insider Buzz: AP May Return to Vikings as Other Teams Show Little Interest in FA Insider Buzz: Desean Jackson Will Get Big Payday; Could Set Brandin Cooks Market Deal Alert: Grading Brandon Marshall to New York Giants Free Agent Signing Insider Buzz: Hue Jackson 'Loves' Mitch Trubisky; Chance to Be #1 Overall Pick Top Performers from the 2017 NFL Combine Rumor Alert: San Francisco 49ers Targeting Free Agent WR Kenny Britt? Insider Buzz: Dolphins May Pay Big Money for Stills; Parker's Future in Question Rumor Alert: Bears Will Make 'Major Push' for Free Agent QB Mike Glennon? NFL Free Agency 2017: Where Will Former Redskins WR DeSean Jackson Land? Myles Garrett, Top Edge Rushers Absolutely Owned the 2017 NFL Combine NFL Free Agency 2017: Why Teams Should Be Targeting WR Terrelle Pryor Insider Buzz: 49ers Targeting Mike Glennon If Cousins Deal Doesn't Develop NFL Free Agency 2017: Why Teams Should Be Targeting RB LeGarrette Blount Insider Buzz: Romo to Denver 'Gaining Momentum', Lack of Other Options NFL Free Agency 2017: Where Will Former Chicago Bears WR Alshon Jeffery Land? The Explosive, West Coast Kid: Meet the Ultimate Deep Threat John Ross NFL Free Agency 2017: Where Will Former Vikings RB Adrian Peterson Land? Insider Buzz: Glennon Offered Top Backup QB Money by Bucs, CHI & NYJ Interested Insider Buzz: Raiders Will Wait to See Murray's Market Before Targeting Peterson Insider Buzz: JPP Not Expected to Agree to Long-Term Deal, NYG Could Draft DE Rumor Alert: Titans Most Likely to Trade for Saints WR Brandin Cooks? Rumor Alert: Philadelphia Eagles Will Evaluate Signing RB Jamaal Charles? NFL Free Agency 2017: Where Will Tony Romo Land If Cut by Dallas Cowboys? Matt Miller's Rapid-Fire Predictions for 2017 NFL Combine Insider Buzz: Kirk Cousins Open to Being Traded to Cleveland Browns Welcome to the Most Lit Student Section in College Hoops Insider Buzz: Adrian Peterson, Vikings to Determine Future at NFL Combine Meet the Biggest Sleeper DB Ready to Tear Up the NFL Combine Insider Buzz: Cutler Won't Accept Any Trade by Bears, Could Threaten to Retire Insider Buzz: NFL Won't Rush to Interfere in Revis, Jets Contract Situation Top Landing Spots for Tony Romo If Released or Traded by Dallas Cowboys Top Landing Spots for Former New York Giants WR Victor Cruz Insider Buzz: Redskins Interested in Tony Romo; Could Trade Kirk Cousins Meet the Explosive Playmaker That Is Set to Destroy the NFL Combine Insider Buzz: Jets Can Get Out of Revis Contract Due to Incident in Pittsburgh Insider Buzz: Jets Can Get Out of Revis Contract Due to Incident in Pittsburgh Insider Buzz: QB Mitch Trubisky Is a 'Lock for the Top 5' in 2017 NFL Draft Insider Buzz: Salary Cap Increase Could Lead to Uptick in Franchise Tag Use Tim Tebow Gave 75,000 Kids with Special Needs a Night They'll Never Forget Insider Buzz: Tony Romo Could Retire from NFL to Pursue TV Career Insider Buzz: Aldon Smith Reinstatement in Jeopardy with Latest Controversy Insider Buzz: 49ers Open to Keeping Kaepernick but Not at Current Salary Top Options for Denver Broncos' Draft Pick History Will Never Forget New England Patriots 5th Championship in Super Bowl LI Simms: Blame Falcons' Conservative D, Not Aggressive Offense, for SB LI Collapse A7FL No-Pads, Full-Contact Football League Claims It's Safer Than the NFL Gridiron Heights: Patriots Win Super Bowl LI NFL Comeback Player of the Year Jordy Nelson Top 5 NFL Interception Leaders of 2016 Insider Buzz: Rams Could Let Trumaine Johnson Walk in Free Agency Insider Buzz: NFL Being Urged to Decrease TNF Games; Goodell Not Budging Insider Buzz: Las Vegas Deal Dead, but Raiders Haven't Contacted City of Oakland Insider Buzz: Belichick Could Pull Out Old Trick to Slow Down Julio Jones in SB Tale of the Tape: Do Patriots or Falcons Have Advantage in Super Bowl LI? NFL Award Predictions: Who Will Take Home Hardware at 'Honors' Ceremony? Why Dion Lewis Will Be Patriots Good Luck Charm in Super Bowl LI Which Group of Road Graders Will Win Offensive Line of the Year at NFL Honors? Deflategate to Lady Gaga: Prop Bets That Will Keep You Hooked on Super Bowl LI Insider Buzz: Patriots Will Move Fast on Garoppolo Trade This Offseason Insider Buzz: Romo Wants to Face Cowboys in 2017 Season Can Super Bowl LI Patriots Cement Legacy as Top Team of New England Dynasty Era? Fake Brady Makes Appearance at Super Bowl 51 Media Day Insider Buzz: John Elway, Rich McKay Endorsed John Lynch for 49ers GM Job Insider Buzz: Raiders to Vegas Hits a Snag, Lease Proposal Seen as 'Insulting' Why One of College Football's Worst Teams Will Be a Winner in Super Bowl LI Atlanta Falcons X-Factors to Disrupt Patriots Offense in Super Bowl LI Insider Buzz: 'Unconventional' John Lynch Hire Won't Impact Shanahan to 49ers Insider Buzz: Teams Take 'Precautions' Before Facing Patriots, Shred Game Plans NCAA Lacrosse to Super Bowl LI: Patriots WR Chris Hogan's Rise to the Top Simms in 60: Falcons and Patriots Have Most Creative Offenses, Take Notice NFL From Homeless to #1 Recruit: How Najee Harris Went from the Streets to Alabama The Best Names of the 2017 College Football Recruiting Class Alabama QB Tua Tagovailoa Is Much More Than "The Next Marcus Mariota" Top 5 Interior Linemen in the Class of 2017 Top 5 Offensive Tackles in the Class of 2017 Who Had the Best Attendance in the NFL in 2016? Meet the Small School Prospect Who's Draft Stock Skyrocketed at 2017 Senior Bowl Insider Buzz: Former Bills Coaches Angry at 'Lazy' Dareus' Criticism of Rex Ryan Insider Buzz: Spanos Denies Wanting to Move Chargers Back to SD, Won't Sell Team Insider Buzz: Outgoing Rams Coaching Staff Blames Todd Gurley's Struggles on Him From College Lacrosse to Super Bowl 51: Chris Hogan's Journey —McCaffrey did work at both running back and wide receiver, showing off his hands and route-running ability.  —Quarterback took snaps under center during his workout, and a scout at the event told me he looked "amazing." Former Notre Dame wide receiver Corey Robinson, son of Hall of Fame basketball player David Robinson, was one of Kizer's receivers. —A Notre Dame source confirmed 27 NFL teams were in attendance for Thursday's workout. general manager John Lynch was one of those at the event. —Said one scout, "Kizer's feet are really improved. You can tell he's been working." Another praised the quarterback's poise and leadership on the field during the drills. And finally, one high-level scout complained that Kizer was throwing to "scrubs" who aren't NFL quality, which affected his timing.   The could go many directions with two first-round selections in this year's draft, but I'm told by a scouting source with the team that they are in "win-now" mode and will look to plug holes in the secondary and at defensive end in Round 1. A potential target for the Saints at the end of the first round is Kansas State defensive end . His stock is red hot right now, with already 13 team visits and/or workouts scheduled. I'm told by the same Saints source that they spent considerable time with Willis at the Senior Bowl and combine. With the signing quarterback Josh McCown, don't rule out a selection of another passer with the No. 6 overall pick. The Jets are a best-player-available team, and if they love North Carolina's Mitchell Trubisky, they could easily run with four quarterbacks on the roster again this year. ESPN's Adam Schefter reported Michigan State defensive lineman was worked out by Minnesota Vikings head coach Mike Zimmer and general manager Rick Spielman at his pro day. The Vikings don't have a first-round selection but could target McDowell in Round 2. Could resurface in New Orleans? NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reported Manziel has drawn the interest of Sean Payton. With Drew Brees nearing the end of his career, New Orleans would be an interesting landing spot for Manziel to make his NFL return. Texas Tech quarterback is red hot with NFL teams following a strong combine. I'm told by one team scout that the quarterback worked out with the New Orleans Saints and has visits scheduled or has already met with the Browns, Kansas City Chiefs, Los Angeles Chargers, Arizona Cardinals, Browns and Chicago Bears.   5 Names to Know We're in an age of versatility in the NFL, and Colorado's Chidobe Awuzie is a jack-of-all-trades in the secondary. He's played inside and outside cornerback and even some safety, which is why teams are starting to warm up to the idea that Awuzie could be a late first-rounder. One scout I spoke with compared him to Damarious Randall in terms of readiness and versatility.  A deep sleeper, Dylan Cole's pro day on Wednesday was very impressive. He rocked out 32 reps of 225 pounds on the bench, ran a 4.49 in the 40-yard dash (unofficial), had a 39-inch vertical jump and a 10'5" broad jump and ran a 4.02 short shuttle and 6.82 three-cone drill. Those numbers should be enough to at least get Cole in the conversation as an NFL linebacker prospect. He's 6'0 " and 239 pounds, so a bit undersized, but the athleticism and production are worthy of a late-round selection.  As my team gets ready for NFL Draft 400 final reports, I sent my top 300 around to a handful of NFL contacts. Two of those people replied that we need to revisit Tyus Bowser. So we did. And he's moving up. Bowser, a 6'3", 247-pound defensive weapon, can play with his hand in the dirt or standing up off the edge. He's a top-tier athlete, and one team I spoke with feels like he could be molded into an excellent pass-rusher in nickel situations. Bowser's name will start heating up, with a good shot he makes it into the top two rounds.  In a bad offensive tackle class, scouts are looking everywhere for a viable starter. Collin Buchanan is a little raw, but he's intriguing as a prospect given his hand quickness and toughness. He's most likely a guard at the next level due to his shorter arms (32 "), but he has the feet to pull and trap and can be effective as a zone blocker.  If you're a longtime reader, you know I love big wide receivers. This year's class is full of size, but here's a sleeper to keep an eye on. Golladay had 87 catches for 1,156 yards this past season and can be a red-zone mismatch in the pros. His route running needs work, and he doesn't have the pure speed (4.50) to run past defenders, but at 6'4" and 218 pounds, he can be physical and box out cornerbacks.  The Mock Draft It's mock draft season, friends! Trades, signings, cuts and pro day workouts have drastically changed the NFL landscape. Here's a look at what I'm hearing each team will do in Round 1:     Parting Shots Many have asked what I would do to fix a team since mock drafts are based on what I'm hearing teams will do and not an opinion on what they should do. Using Fanspeak's On the Clock tool, here's my seven-round mock draft on how I'd fix the Cleveland Browns:    If you're into the behind-the-scenes aspect of this business, you'll love the The MMQB's piece "24 Hours with Adam Schefter" covering the first day of free agency. It's a six-minute video with accompanying article and really peels back the curtain on what the best news-breaker in the business does on his busiest day of the year.  Another week, another top cornerback prospect hurt at a pro day. After last week's rant about Sidney Jones tearing his Achilles at the Washington pro day, it's frustrating to see UCLA's Fabian Moreau tearing a pectoral muscle during the bench press at the UCLA workout. Moreau, who battled all season and went to the Shrine Game to prove himself as a top competitor, will now see his draft stock fall because of a late-process injury. Here's a kid who has risen through the ranks and was a potential late first-rounder. And all that progress goes down the drain so scouts can record a cornerback doing 225-pound bench press reps. I understand the sacred tools of scouting and the idea that we need numbers for historic cross-comparisons, but there has to be a better way. When two top cornerbacks are hurt in the same draft class doing workouts they've done already, it's gotten too far.  Late March is an important time of year for NFL scouting departments because of pro day workouts, but also because this is when you start to get into the really substantive discussions (or arguments) in scouting meetings about player rankings. As the board gets stacked, a good director of college scouting or general manager is leading the room in hot debates about strengths, weaknesses, wiring and injuries. You don't want to be the "yes man" scout, so standing up and defending your report and your guy is important. That's where the phrase "stand on the table for" comes from. Are you willing to stand on the table for your guy? Over the years, I've stood on the table for players like Alshon Jeffery and Marcus Peters with some success, and others like Luke Joeckel and Teddy Bridgewater, which haven't worked out so far (one due to injury). But in this business, it's OK to stand on the table when you truly believe in a player. My "on the table" guys for this year are still being decided, but it's a safe bet that Christian McCaffrey and Quincy Wilson will be on that list.  This week's Scouting in 140 takes a look at the top of this year's underrated linebacker class. First up is top-10 talent Reuben Foster: Foster: Elite range/load. Alpha. Mean hitter. Good in coverage. 34I or 43W. Attacker. Smooth hips, quick feet. Quick diagnosis. Top 5 player  Zach Cunningham: Cunningham: Long/lean. Arm tackler. Big stats w/high missed tackles. Avg. strength. Fast/explosive skills. Range ++. Raw canvas. Top 50  Jarrad Davis: Davis: '15 tape &gt; '16. Jacked, tough player. High football IQ/wiring. Range can wow you. Missteps to the ball. ++ tackler. Few holes. Top 32  Haason Reddick: Reddick: stock ⬆️. Love his fire. Versatile. Can play in space or hand down. Speed/dip to rush. Eyes to locate off-ball. Fast w/range. Rd1  T.J. Watt: Watt: Raw, learning the game. Strong w/length. Uses hands, arms like a pro. Needs to add strength. Arrow up. Lives around the ball. Rd1  Raekwon McMillan: McMillan: Great downhill. Read-n-react player. Ideal SAM LB. Quick in space. Fiery. Always moving. Can be a tight hipped. Top 50  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

David Madison/Getty Images

Matt Miller NFL Draft Lead Writer

NFL general managers are paid big money to be decision-makers. Who to sign, who to cut, what trades to take and which to turn down. But at the heart of running the team, you must be able to identify and evaluate talent. And that's why pro days are huge. But what do you do when multiple Power Five schools schedule a pro day on the same date? "Run like hell" is what one general manager told me.

You also delegate.

One team I spoke with sends the general manager to one workout and the director of college scouting to another while keeping the director of player personnel in-office to run the phones and focus on free agency and setting the draft board. You always want one guy with decision-making ability there. Just in case. For the other pro days, scouts will be assigned to hit them and update the numbers in the team's database following the workout.

As teams hit the road on Thursday for pro days at Missouri, Notre Dame, Ohio State and Stanford, here's what's happening in the world of the NFL.

Updated one-round mock draft

Another top player hurt at a pro day

Five names to know

Scouting in 140

Fixing the Cleveland Browns

The Scout's Report

Ohio State pro day recap:

—NFL Network's Kimberly Jones reported Bill Belichick, Todd Bowles, Mike Tomlin, Hue Jackson, John Harbaugh, Mike Mularkey, Sean Payton, Jim Caldwell and Marvin Lewis were all in attendance, as well as seven NFL general managers, including the New York Jets' Mike Maccagnan and Marc Ross, vice president of player evaluation for the New York Giants.

—Top players Gareon Conley, Marshon Lattimore, Patrick Elflein, Curtis Samuel and Raekwon McMillan all chose to stand on their NFL Scouting Combine 40-yard dash times and did not run, per Jacob Myers of The Lantern.

DB Marshon Lattimore has top-five draft potential. Paul Vernon/Associated Press/Associated Press

—Linebacker McMillan went through drills during the workout, and a scout at the event texted me that he looked "smooth, easy-moving, caught the ball well. We like him in Round 2."

—Conley and Lattimore stood on their combine numbers, but both went through drills. A coach at the workout texted that Lattimore "is one of the best athletes I've ever seen at corner. He should be a top-five pick."

—Said another scout, "these two [corners] could be the first two off the board. They're damn near perfect."

Missouri pro day recap:

—Edge-rusher Charles Harris improved his vertical jump with a 37.5-inch leap, up from 32 inches at the combine. He was also timed at 7.03 seconds in the three-cone.

—Harris did drill work, and a scout who was on the scene texted: "I don't care what his 40 time was, this kid can bend." Said another, "Where was the production as a [redshirt junior]? He was average. Not a fan."

—Pittsburgh Steelers linebackers coach Joey Porter, Jets linebackers coach Kevin Greene and Bengals linebackers coach Jim Haslett were all spotted at the workout, according to Twitter posts from local media.

Stanford pro day recap:

—San Francisco 49ers head coach Kyle Shanahan was on hand for the Stanford pro day, as was Carolina Panthers head coach Ron Rivera, according to a source with the team.

—Christian McCaffrey and Solomon Thomas opted to stand on their combine testing times and did drill work only.

Auburn's Carl Larson with Something to Prove on Pro Day What Changed for Tony Romo on Day 1 of NFL Free Agency? Dirt Monster' Solomon Thomas Is Ready to Be King the of Trenches in NFL Oklahoma State's Jordan Sterns on Pro Day Performance What Will It Take for Tony Romo to Land in Denver? Tony Romo Says Goodbye to Cowboys Deal Alert: Grading Alshon Jeffery to Philadelphia Eagles Free Agent Signing Matt Miller's Winners and Losers from the NFL Combine Deal Alert: Grading DeSean Jackson to Tampa Bay Buccaneers Free Agent Signing Insider Buzz: Deep CB Draft Class Helped Patriots Outbid Teams for Gilmore Insider Buzz: AP May Return to Vikings as Other Teams Show Little Interest in FA Insider Buzz: Desean Jackson Will Get Big Payday; Could Set Brandin Cooks Market Deal Alert: Grading Brandon Marshall to New York Giants Free Agent Signing Insider Buzz: Hue Jackson 'Loves' Mitch Trubisky; Chance to Be #1 Overall Pick Top Performers from the 2017 NFL Combine Rumor Alert: San Francisco 49ers Targeting Free Agent WR Kenny Britt? Insider Buzz: Dolphins May Pay Big Money for Stills; Parker's Future in Question Rumor Alert: Bears Will Make 'Major Push' for Free Agent QB Mike Glennon? NFL Free Agency 2017: Where Will Former Redskins WR DeSean Jackson Land? Myles Garrett, Top Edge Rushers Absolutely Owned the 2017 NFL Combine NFL Free Agency 2017: Why Teams Should Be Targeting WR Terrelle Pryor Insider Buzz: 49ers Targeting Mike Glennon If Cousins Deal Doesn't Develop NFL Free Agency 2017: Why Teams Should Be Targeting RB LeGarrette Blount Insider Buzz: Romo to Denver 'Gaining Momentum', Lack of Other Options NFL Free Agency 2017: Where Will Former Chicago Bears WR Alshon Jeffery Land? The Explosive, West Coast Kid: Meet the Ultimate Deep Threat John Ross NFL Free Agency 2017: Where Will Former Vikings RB Adrian Peterson Land? Insider Buzz: Glennon Offered Top Backup QB Money by Bucs, CHI & NYJ Interested Insider Buzz: Raiders Will Wait to See Murray's Market Before Targeting Peterson Insider Buzz: JPP Not Expected to Agree to Long-Term Deal, NYG Could Draft DE Rumor Alert: Titans Most Likely to Trade for Saints WR Brandin Cooks? Rumor Alert: Philadelphia Eagles Will Evaluate Signing RB Jamaal Charles? NFL Free Agency 2017: Where Will Tony Romo Land If Cut by Dallas Cowboys? Matt Miller's Rapid-Fire Predictions for 2017 NFL Combine Insider Buzz: Kirk Cousins Open to Being Traded to Cleveland Browns Welcome to the Most Lit Student Section in College Hoops Insider Buzz: Adrian Peterson, Vikings to Determine Future at NFL Combine Meet the Biggest Sleeper DB Ready to Tear Up the NFL Combine Insider Buzz: Cutler Won't Accept Any Trade by Bears, Could Threaten to Retire Insider Buzz: NFL Won't Rush to Interfere in Revis, Jets Contract Situation Top Landing Spots for Tony Romo If Released or Traded by Dallas Cowboys Top Landing Spots for Former New York Giants WR Victor Cruz Insider Buzz: Redskins Interested in Tony Romo; Could Trade Kirk Cousins Meet the Explosive Playmaker That Is Set to Destroy the NFL Combine Insider Buzz: Jets Can Get Out of Revis Contract Due to Incident in Pittsburgh Insider Buzz: Jets Can Get Out of Revis Contract Due to Incident in Pittsburgh Insider Buzz: QB Mitch Trubisky Is a 'Lock for the Top 5' in 2017 NFL Draft Insider Buzz: Salary Cap Increase Could Lead to Uptick in Franchise Tag Use Tim Tebow Gave 75,000 Kids with Special Needs a Night They'll Never Forget Insider Buzz: Tony Romo Could Retire from NFL to Pursue TV Career Insider Buzz: Aldon Smith Reinstatement in Jeopardy with Latest Controversy Insider Buzz: 49ers Open to Keeping Kaepernick but Not at Current Salary Top Options for Denver Broncos' Draft Pick History Will Never Forget New England Patriots 5th Championship in Super Bowl LI Simms: Blame Falcons' Conservative D, Not Aggressive Offense, for SB LI Collapse A7FL No-Pads, Full-Contact Football League Claims It's Safer Than the NFL Gridiron Heights: Patriots Win Super Bowl LI NFL Comeback Player of the Year Jordy Nelson Top 5 NFL Interception Leaders of 2016 Insider Buzz: Rams Could Let Trumaine Johnson Walk in Free Agency Insider Buzz: NFL Being Urged to Decrease TNF Games; Goodell Not Budging Insider Buzz: Las Vegas Deal Dead, but Raiders Haven't Contacted City of Oakland Insider Buzz: Belichick Could Pull Out Old Trick to Slow Down Julio Jones in SB Tale of the Tape: Do Patriots or Falcons Have Advantage in Super Bowl LI? NFL Award Predictions: Who Will Take Home Hardware at 'Honors' Ceremony? Why Dion Lewis Will Be Patriots Good Luck Charm in Super Bowl LI Which Group of Road Graders Will Win Offensive Line of the Year at NFL Honors? Deflategate to Lady Gaga: Prop Bets That Will Keep You Hooked on Super Bowl LI Insider Buzz: Patriots Will Move Fast on Garoppolo Trade This Offseason Insider Buzz: Romo Wants to Face Cowboys in 2017 Season Can Super Bowl LI Patriots Cement Legacy as Top Team of New England Dynasty Era? Fake Brady Makes Appearance at Super Bowl 51 Media Day Insider Buzz: John Elway, Rich McKay Endorsed John Lynch for 49ers GM Job Insider Buzz: Raiders to Vegas Hits a Snag, Lease Proposal Seen as 'Insulting' Why One of College Football's Worst Teams Will Be a Winner in Super Bowl LI Atlanta Falcons X-Factors to Disrupt Patriots Offense in Super Bowl LI Insider Buzz: 'Unconventional' John Lynch Hire Won't Impact Shanahan to 49ers Insider Buzz: Teams Take 'Precautions' Before Facing Patriots, Shred Game Plans NCAA Lacrosse to Super Bowl LI: Patriots WR Chris Hogan's Rise to the Top Simms in 60: Falcons and Patriots Have Most Creative Offenses, Take Notice NFL From Homeless to #1 Recruit: How Najee Harris Went from the Streets to Alabama The Best Names of the 2017 College Football Recruiting Class Alabama QB Tua Tagovailoa Is Much More Than "The Next Marcus Mariota" Top 5 Interior Linemen in the Class of 2017 Top 5 Offensive Tackles in the Class of 2017 Who Had the Best Attendance in the NFL in 2016? Meet the Small School Prospect Who's Draft Stock Skyrocketed at 2017 Senior Bowl Insider Buzz: Former Bills Coaches Angry at 'Lazy' Dareus' Criticism of Rex Ryan Insider Buzz: Spanos Denies Wanting to Move Chargers Back to SD, Won't Sell Team Insider Buzz: Outgoing Rams Coaching Staff Blames Todd Gurley's Struggles on Him From College Lacrosse to Super Bowl 51: Chris Hogan's Journey

—McCaffrey did work at both running back and wide receiver, showing off his hands and route-running ability.

Notre Dame pro day recap:

—Quarterback DeShone Kizer took snaps under center during his workout, and a scout at the event told me he looked "amazing." Former Notre Dame wide receiver Corey Robinson, son of Hall of Fame basketball player David Robinson, was one of Kizer's receivers.

QB DeShone Kizer Nam Y. Huh/Associated Press/Associated Press

—A Notre Dame source confirmed 27 NFL teams were in attendance for Thursday's workout. San Francisco 49ers general manager John Lynch was one of those at the event.

—Said one scout, "Kizer's feet are really improved. You can tell he's been working." Another praised the quarterback's poise and leadership on the field during the drills. And finally, one high-level scout complained that Kizer was throwing to "scrubs" who aren't NFL quality, which affected his timing.

—The New Orleans Saints could go many directions with two first-round selections in this year's draft, but I'm told by a scouting source with the team that they are in "win-now" mode and will look to plug holes in the secondary and at defensive end in Round 1.

—A potential target for the Saints at the end of the first round is Kansas State defensive end Jordan Willis. His stock is red hot right now, with already 13 team visits and/or workouts scheduled. I'm told by the same Saints source that they spent considerable time with Willis at the Senior Bowl and combine.

—With the New York Jets signing quarterback Josh McCown, don't rule out a selection of another passer with the No. 6 overall pick. The Jets are a best-player-available team, and if they love North Carolina's Mitchell Trubisky, they could easily run with four quarterbacks on the roster again this year.

QB Mitchell Trubisky could be the first signal-caller off the board. Gerry Broome/Associated Press/Associated Press

—ESPN's Adam Schefter reported Michigan State defensive lineman Malik McDowell was worked out by Minnesota Vikings head coach Mike Zimmer and general manager Rick Spielman at his pro day. The Vikings don't have a first-round selection but could target McDowell in Round 2.

—Could Johnny Manziel resurface in New Orleans? NFL Network's Ian Rapoport reported Manziel has drawn the interest of Sean Payton. With Drew Brees nearing the end of his career, New Orleans would be an interesting landing spot for Manziel to make his NFL return.

—Texas Tech quarterback Patrick Mahomes is red hot with NFL teams right now following a strong combine. I'm told by one team scout that the quarterback worked out with the New Orleans Saints and has visits scheduled or has already met with the Browns, Kansas City Chiefs, Los Angeles Chargers, Arizona Cardinals, Browns and Chicago Bears.

5 Names to Know

5. Cornerback Chidobe Awuzie, Colorado

We're in an age of versatility in the NFL, and Colorado's Chidobe Awuzie is a jack-of-all-trades in the secondary. He's played inside and outside cornerback and even some safety, which is why teams are starting to warm up to the idea that Awuzie could be a late first-rounder. One scout I spoke with compared him to Damarious Randall in terms of readiness and versatility.

4. Linebacker Dylan Cole, Missouri State

A deep sleeper, Dylan Cole's pro day on Wednesday was very impressive. He rocked out 32 reps of 225 pounds on the bench, ran a 4.49 in the 40-yard dash (unofficial), had a 39-inch vertical jump and a 10'5" broad jump and ran a 4.02 short shuttle and 6.82 three-cone drill. Those numbers should be enough to at least get Cole in the conversation as an NFL linebacker prospect. He's 6'0 ½" and 239 pounds, so a bit undersized, but the athleticism and production are worthy of a late-round selection.

3. Edge-rusher Tyus Bowser, Houston



Edge-rusher Tyus Bowser is moving up draft boards. Brynn Anderson/Associated Press

As my team gets ready for NFL Draft 400 final reports, I sent my top 300 around to a handful of NFL contacts. Two of those people replied that we need to revisit Tyus Bowser. So we did. And he's moving up.

Bowser, a 6'3", 247-pound defensive weapon, can play with his hand in the dirt or standing up off the edge. He's a top-tier athlete, and one team I spoke with feels like he could be molded into an excellent pass-rusher in nickel situations. Bowser's name will start heating up, with a good shot he makes it into the top two rounds.

2. Tackle Collin Buchanan, Miami (OH)

In a bad offensive tackle class, scouts are looking everywhere for a viable starter. Collin Buchanan is a little raw, but he's intriguing as a prospect given his hand quickness and toughness. He's most likely a guard at the next level due to his shorter arms (32 ⅜"), but he has the feet to pull and trap and can be effective as a zone blocker.

1. Wide receiver Kenny Golladay, Northern Illinois



If you're a longtime reader, you know I love big wide receivers. This year's class is full of size, but here's a sleeper to keep an eye on. Golladay had 87 catches for 1,156 yards this past season and can be a red-zone mismatch in the pros. His route running needs work, and he doesn't have the pure speed (4.50) to run past defenders, but at 6'4" and 218 pounds, he can be physical and box out cornerbacks.

The Mock Draft

It's mock draft season, friends!

Trades, signings, cuts and pro day workouts have drastically changed the NFL landscape. Here's a look at what I'm hearing each team will do in Round 1:

Updated Mock Draft Pick Team Player 1 Cleveland DE Myles Garrett, Texas A&M 2 San Francisco RB Leonard Fournette, LSU 3 Chicago S Jamal Adams, LSU 4 Jacksonville DL Solomon Thomas, Stanford 5 Tennessee (from Rams) CB Marshon Lattimore, Ohio State 6 NY Jets QB Mitchell Trubisky, North Carolina 7 LA Chargers S Malik Hooker, Ohio State 8 Carolina CB Quincy Wilson, Florida 9 Cincinnati LB Reuben Foster, Alabama 10 Buffalo TE O.J. Howard, Alabama 11 New Orleans CB Gareon Conley, Ohio State 12 Cleveland (from Eagles) QB Deshaun Watson, Clemson 13 Arizona WR Corey Davis, Western Michigan 14 Philadelphia (from Vikings) WR Mike Williams, Clemson 15 Indianapolis EDGE Charles Harris, Missouri 16 Baltimore EDGE Taco Charlton, Michigan 17 Washington DL Jonathan Allen, Alabama 18 Tennessee TE David Njoku, Miami (FL) 19 Tampa Bay RB Christian McCaffrey, Stanford 20 Denver OT Garett Bolles, Utah 21 Detroit DE Derek Barnett, Tennessee 22 Miami LB Haason Reddick, Temple 23 NY Giants OT Ryan Ramczyk, Wisconsin 24 Oakland RB Joe Mixon, Oklahoma 25 Houston QB Patrick Mahomes, Texas Tech 26 Seattle OG Forrest Lamp, Western Kentucky 27 Kansas City QB DeShone Kizer, Notre Dame 28 Dallas S Jabrill Peppers, Michigan 29 Green Bay EDGE T.J. Watt, Wisconsin 30 Pittsburgh EDGE Takkarist McKinley, UCLA 31 Atlanta DL Malik McDowell, Michigan State 32 New Orleans (from Patriots) DE Jordan Willis, Kansas State Matt Miller

Parting Shots

10. Many have asked what I would do to fix a team since mock drafts are based on what I'm hearing teams will do and not an opinion on what they should do. Using Fanspeak's On the Clock tool, here's my seven-round mock draft on how I'd fix the Cleveland Browns:

Fixing the Cleveland Browns Round/Pick Player 1/1 DE Myles Garrett, Texas A&M 1/12 QB Deshaun Watson, Clemson 2/33 S Jabrill Peppers, Michigan 2/52 CB Tre'Davious White, LSU 3/65 WR Cooper Kupp, Eastern Washington 4/108 TE George Kittle, Iowa 5/145 RB James Conner, Pitt 5/175 OT J.J. Dielman, Utah 5/181 CB Jalen Myrick, Minnesota 6/185 S Jadar Johnson, Clemson 6/188 LB Steven Taylor, Houston Matt Miller

9. If you're into the behind-the-scenes aspect of this business, you'll love the The MMQB's piece "24 Hours with Adam Schefter" covering the first day of free agency. It's a six-minute video with accompanying article and really peels back the curtain on what the best news-breaker in the business does on his busiest day of the year.

8. Another week, another top cornerback prospect hurt at a pro day. After last week's rant about Sidney Jones tearing his Achilles at the Washington pro day, it's frustrating to see UCLA's Fabian Moreau tearing a pectoral muscle during the bench press at the UCLA workout.

CB Fabian Moreau Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images

Moreau, who battled all season and went to the Shrine Game to prove himself as a top competitor, will now see his draft stock fall because of a late-process injury. Here's a kid who has risen through the ranks and was a potential late first-rounder. And all that progress goes down the drain so scouts can record a cornerback doing 225-pound bench press reps.

I understand the sacred tools of scouting and the idea that we need numbers for historic cross-comparisons, but there has to be a better way. When two top cornerbacks are hurt in the same draft class doing workouts they've done already, it's gotten too far.

7. Late March is an important time of year for NFL scouting departments because of pro day workouts, but also because this is when you start to get into the really substantive discussions (or arguments) in scouting meetings about player rankings.

As the board gets stacked, a good director of college scouting or general manager is leading the room in hot debates about strengths, weaknesses, wiring and injuries. You don't want to be the "yes man" scout, so standing up and defending your report and your guy is important. That's where the phrase "stand on the table for" comes from. Are you willing to stand on the table for your guy?

Over the years, I've stood on the table for players like Alshon Jeffery and Marcus Peters with some success, and others like Luke Joeckel and Teddy Bridgewater, which haven't worked out so far (one due to injury). But in this business, it's OK to stand on the table when you truly believe in a player.

My "on the table" guys for this year are still being decided, but it's a safe bet that Christian McCaffrey and Quincy Wilson will be on that list.

6. This week's Scouting in 140 takes a look at the top of this year's underrated linebacker class. First up is top-10 talent Reuben Foster:

5. Zach Cunningham:

4. Jarrad Davis:

3. Haason Reddick:

2. T.J. Watt:

1. Raekwon McMillan:

Matt Miller covers the NFL and NFL draft for Bleacher Report.