South Carolina Merchandise Sales Increase By 320% After Duke Upset
South Carolina Merchandise Sales Increase By 320% After Duke Upset
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Daniel Kleinman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Rakym Felder #4 of the South Carolina Gamecocks reacts in the second half against the Duke Blue Devils during the second round of the 2017 NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament at Bon Secours Wellness Arena on March 19, 2017 in Greenville, South Carolina. (Photo by Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images) "He's fearless at the moment, he loves the big stage," South Carolina Head Coach Frank Martin said in a post-game press conference , referring to freshman point guard Rakym Felder. "I needed a New York City point guard, I like New York City guards," he continued. It was a big stage indeed, as South Carolina's seven-point upset of Duke cemented their first Sweet Sixteen appearance in over four decades. The last time the Gamecocks made the Sweet Sixteen was 1973 after two consecutive appearances in 1971 and 1972. The game wasn't just a big stage in a metaphorical sense, either. The upset was the "top draw" of the NCAA tournament's second-round games on TNT last Sunday, according to Sports Media Watch . The game drew in six million viewers to the network, almost twice that of the UCLA-Cincinnati matchup.  A landmark victory for the team, Gamecock fans flocked to purchase team gear to celebrate. According to Fanatics , a large online retailer of licensed sports apparel, South Carolina merchandise sales have increased by 320%, the largest spike for merchandise sales of teams that advanced to the Sweet Sixteen. And it isn't solely the students placing orders on merchandise. Other than Columbia, South Carolina, where the university is located, the top markets for Gamecock gear since Duke's defeat are Atlanta, New York City, Charleston and Charlotte. Perhaps North Carolina fans in Charlotte jumped on the bandwagon, like the cheering supporter below: This UNC fan holding a South Carolina towel as they play Duke is why college basketball is the best. pic.twitter.com/kdtrUreSLE — CBS Sports (@CBSSports) March 20, 2017 For a conference known more for its football fervor, it's not surprising that the SEC has difficulty achieving high basketball ratings, specifically in the conference championship game. But a newfound enthusiasm for basketball, as shown by Kentucky and now South Carolina's merchandise sales, may change the narrative around the conference's reputation. "Everyone on campus, around Columbia and even the state seems to be savoring every minute," the  reports . At the rate that fans are donning t-shirts and hats, it would appear so. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

"He's fearless at the moment, he loves the big stage," South Carolina Head Coach Frank Martin said in a post-game press conference, referring to freshman point guard Rakym Felder. "I needed a New York City point guard, I like New York City guards," he continued. It was a big stage indeed, as South Carolina's seven-point upset of Duke cemented their first Sweet Sixteen appearance in over four decades. The last time the Gamecocks made the Sweet Sixteen was 1973 after two consecutive appearances in 1971 and 1972.

The game wasn't just a big stage in a metaphorical sense, either. The upset was the "top draw" of the NCAA tournament's second-round games on TNT last Sunday, according to Sports Media Watch. The game drew in six million viewers to the network, almost twice that of the UCLA-Cincinnati matchup.

Read More: Kentucky Is The Merchandise Powerhouse Of The NCAA Tournament

A landmark victory for the team, Gamecock fans flocked to purchase team gear to celebrate. According to Fanatics, a large online retailer of licensed sports apparel, South Carolina merchandise sales have increased by 320%, the largest spike for merchandise sales of teams that advanced to the Sweet Sixteen. And it isn't solely the students placing orders on merchandise.

Other than Columbia, South Carolina, where the university is located, the top markets for Gamecock gear since Duke's defeat are Atlanta, New York City, Charleston and Charlotte. Perhaps North Carolina fans in Charlotte jumped on the bandwagon, like the cheering supporter below:

This UNC fan holding a South Carolina towel as they play Duke is why college basketball is the best. pic.twitter.com/kdtrUreSLE — CBS Sports (@CBSSports) March 20, 2017

For a conference known more for its football fervor, it's not surprising that the SEC has difficulty achieving high basketball ratings, specifically in the conference championship game. But a newfound enthusiasm for basketball, as shown by Kentucky and now South Carolina's merchandise sales, may change the narrative around the conference's reputation.

"Everyone on campus, around Columbia and even the state seems to be savoring every minute," the New York Times reports. At the rate that fans are donning t-shirts and hats, it would appear so.