Viral Video Shows Women Activists Of Dukhtaran-e-Millat Celebrating Pakistan Day In Kashmir
Viral Video Shows Women Activists Of Dukhtaran-e-Millat Celebrating Pakistan Day In Kashmir
Viral Video Shows Women Activists Of Dukhtaran-e-Millat Celebrating Pakistan Day In Kashmir Despite Being Warned Not To In Kashmir, dozens of women from the separatist group called Dukhtran-e-Millat (DeM) organised a ceremony to celebrate the neighbouring country’s National Day. Pakistan is celebrating its 77th National Day and in a video that's now gone viral, women activists of the DeM are seen unfurling Pakistani flags and singing the country's national anthem. The celebration comes as an act of defiance to army chief General Bipin Rawat order to crackdown on elements involved in such acts. The Dukhtaran-e-Milltat (DeM) chairperson and separatist leader Asiya Andrabi assembled in confidential place to avoid police intervention. However, the event came to light after the group decide to circulate the video on social media to spread the word to a larger audience. "We have assembled here despite the environment not being conducive for us. We wanted to propagate our solidarity with Pakistan and tell the world that Muslims of J&K want to live and die with their brethren in Pakistan," (sic) the DNA quoted Aaasiya Andrabi. Separatist leaders, who have participated in the Pakistan Day celebrations in the past, are currently under detention inside their homes or in jail. Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and Shabir Ahmad Shah are among the top leaders put under house arrest while JKLF chairman Mohammad Yasin Malik is currently lodged at Central Jail Srinagar.

In Kashmir, dozens of women from the separatist group called Dukhtran-e-Millat (DeM) organised a ceremony to celebrate the neighbouring country’s National Day.

Pakistan is celebrating its 77th National Day and in a video that's now gone viral, women activists of the DeM are seen unfurling Pakistani flags and singing the country's national anthem.

The celebration comes as an act of defiance to army chief General Bipin Rawat order to crackdown on elements involved in such acts.

The Dukhtaran-e-Milltat (DeM) chairperson and separatist leader Asiya Andrabi assembled in confidential place to avoid police intervention.

However, the event came to light after the group decide to circulate the video on social media to spread the word to a larger audience.

"We have assembled here despite the environment not being conducive for us. We wanted to propagate our solidarity with Pakistan and tell the world that Muslims of J&K want to live and die with their brethren in Pakistan," (sic) the DNA quoted Aaasiya Andrabi.

Separatist leaders, who have participated in the Pakistan Day celebrations in the past, are currently under detention inside their homes or in jail.

Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and Shabir Ahmad Shah are among the top leaders put under house arrest while JKLF chairman Mohammad Yasin Malik is currently lodged at Central Jail Srinagar.

Don't Miss 7.5 K SHARES 13.7 K SHARES 113 K SHARES 32.6 K SHARES 48 K SHARES