Marina Bay Sands, Singapore: the world's most jaw-dropping (and photogenic) hotel pool
Marina Bay Sands, Singapore: the world's most jaw-dropping (and photogenic) hotel pool
he world’s most extraordinary pool is coming to British television screens – but there’s more selfie snapping than actually swimming going on. A new BBC series, Amazing Hotels: Life Beyond the Lobby , starting Monday 27th March, goes behind the scenes of Marina Bay Sands hotel in Singapore , a 656ft five-star colossus which has the world’s longest infinity pool on its roof. Masterchef judge Monica Galetti and restaurant critic Giles Coren star in the six-part documentary, which explores daily life at some of the most astonishing luxury hotels around the world . • The hotels you really should follow on Instagram here is little doubt that Marina Bay Sands' centrepiece is its rooftop infinity pool, 55 storeys up and commanding breathtaking views of the cityscape beyond – unsurprisingly it gets quite a lot of airtime on Monday's programme. It has become one of Singapore ’s most sought-after photo spots, and is credited as the driving factor behind the hotel’s enduring popularity on social media. The leading attraction has even spawned its own Instagram hashtag #marinabaysandspool, with thousands of posts. The figures are impressive. At 142 metres long, it’s the longest elevated pool in the world, close to three times the length of an Olympic swimming pool – although few guests can pull themselves away from the magnificent vistas long enough to work on their front crawl. Instead, they prefer to take pictures of themselves against the water's edge with the help of a selfie stick. The hotel has not disclosed the number of iPhone drownings cases that have subsequently ensued. • The greatest hotels in the world

There is little doubt that Marina Bay Sands' centrepiece is its rooftop infinity pool, 55 storeys up and commanding breathtaking views of the cityscape beyond – unsurprisingly it gets quite a lot of airtime on Monday's programme. It has become one of Singapore’s most sought-after photo spots, and is credited as the driving factor behind the hotel’s enduring popularity on social media. The leading attraction has even spawned its own Instagram hashtag #marinabaysandspool, with thousands of posts.

The figures are impressive. At 142 metres long, it’s the longest elevated pool in the world, close to three times the length of an Olympic swimming pool – although few guests can pull themselves away from the magnificent vistas long enough to work on their front crawl. Instead, they prefer to take pictures of themselves against the water's edge with the help of a selfie stick. The hotel has not disclosed the number of iPhone drownings cases that have subsequently ensued.