Putin tells Le Pen he won't interfere in French elections
Putin promises Le Pen he won't interfere in French elections


Vladimir Putin has promised not to interfere in the French elections after meeting far-right candidate Marine Le Pen this morning.

The Russian president told the French National Front leader his country 'by no means wants to influence the current events'.

But he added: 'We reserve the right to communicate with all representatives of all political forces of the country, as do our partners in Europe and the United States for example.

It comes a month after France warned the Kremlin against meddling in its affairs and after American intelligence accused Moscow hackers of helping Donald Trump win the US presidency.

Vladimir Putin (right, today) has promised not to interfere in the French elections after meeting far-right candidate Marine Le Pen (left) this morning

The Kremlin said Putin did not discuss financial aid for her campaign and that meeting Le Pen and 'opposition' is 'normal practice'. The pair are pictured during talks this morning

Marine Le Pen has spoken with Vladimir Putin at a meeting in Moscow this morning. She is pictured as she spoke to Vyacheslav Volodin during their meeting in the Lower House of the Russian Parliament

Le Pen, who has said she admires the Russian leader, was visiting Russia at the invitation of Leonid Slutsky, head of the lower house of parliament's foreign affairs committee, Russian news agencies reported.

Putin is said to have told her: 'I know that you represent quite a fast-developing spectrum of European political forces.'

However, the Kremlin said Putin did not discuss financial aid for her campaign and that meeting Le Pen and 'opposition' is 'normal practice'.

Putin's meeting with Le Pen was not announced this week when the Russian parliament confirmed that the National Front leader would be visiting Moscow on Friday to meet with lawmakers.

Earlier on Friday, Le Pen met Russian parliamentary speaker Vyacheslav Volodin, calling for increasing cooperation with Russia in the fight against 'terrorism'.

She later called for European sanctions against Russia to be scrapped insisting the EU had no right to punish Russia for annexing the disputed Crimea region from Ukraine in 2014.

'I see no reasons that justify the current hostile attitude of the French authorities towards Russia,' Ms Le Pen said on her visit to Moscow.

'We have always believed that Russia and France need to maintain and develop the ties that have bound us for a long time.'

Mr Putin, the Russian President, was then pictured chatting in the Kremlin with Ms Le Pen, who is shunned by many western governments around the world, including Britain's.

She has visited Moscow on several occasions, enjoying positive Russian state media coverage.

Vyacheslav Volodin (right) welcomes French far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen (left) for the talks during their meeting in the Lower House of the Russian Parliament

Putin's meeting with Le Pen was not announced this week when the Russian parliament confirmed that the National Front leader would be visiting Moscow on Friday to meet with lawmakers. She is pictured shaking hands with Vyacheslav Volodin

Le Pen is among European politicians who have called for closer ties with Putin and approved of Moscow's annexation of Crimea from Ukraine.

In 2014, the Moscow based First Czech Russian Bank (FCRB) lent the FN the equivalent of £8million

But the Central Bank of Russia revoked FCRB's license last year, leaving Ms Le Pen looking for a new backer in the country.

FN treasurer Wallerand de Saint Just said in December: 'The loss of the FCRB was a hard blow for us.The Russia loan was a stable resource. Now we are still searching for loans.'

Moscow has been accused of seeking to promote anti-EU candidates in European elections.

A month ago France warned the Kremlin against meddling in its elections. Foreign minister Jean-Marc Ayrault threatened 'retaliatory measures' in the event of interference in upcoming presidential elections in April.

Leading French candidates, Emmanuel Macron, in February accused Russia of trying to derail his bid.

Macron also accused Moscow of being behind a cyber attacks on his campaign website and email servers over the past month.

'Half of the attacks, and there are hundreds a day, come from Ukraine, which is known for its links to hackers and people responsible for cyberattacks in Russia,' said his spokesman Benjamin Griveaux, accusing the Kremlin of trying to boost Fillon and far-right candidate Marine Le Pen, both of whom urge closer ties to Russia.

At the same time, Ayrault warned the French parliament: 'We will not accept any interference whatsoever in our electoral process, whether by Russia or any other state.

The Russian president (pictured) told the French National Front leader his country 'by no means wants to influence the current events'

Le Pen, who has said she admires the Russian leader, was visiting Russia at the invitation of Leonid Slutsky, head of the lower house of parliament's foreign affairs committee, Russian news agencies reported

'After what happened in the United States, it is our responsibility to take all steps necessary to ensure that the integrity of our democratic process is fully respected.'

He said France would set clear limits, 'including retaliatory measures when that is necessary, because no foreign state can influence the choice of the French, no foreign state can choose the future president of the Republic.'

Speaking at the National Assembly, Ayrault also took aim at Fillon and Le Pen, saying it would be better if 'certain candidates who see themselves favoured by, in particular, a country we know well - Russia - protest against this type of influence'.

It comes amid a period of heightened tensions between Russian president Vladimir Putin and the West.

This has been increased amid a furore over Russia's alleged interference in the US campaign that has already forced out one of Trump's top aides.

Trump's national security advisor Michael Flynn resigned on Monday after it was revealed that he misled top officials over his contacts with Russia during the campaign.

US intelligence agencies had already accused Russian intelligence of hacking Democratic Party emails that embarrassed Trump's rival Hillary Clinton.



