Manafort Is Willing to Talk With House Committee, Nunes Says
Manafort Is Willing to Talk With House Committee, Nunes Says
Paul Manafort, campaign chairman for Donald Trump, speaks during a Bloomberg Politics breakfast at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland on July 18, 2016. Paul Manafort, former chairman of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, offered to meet with the House Intelligence Committee investigating Russian interference, even as the panel’s top Democrat blasted Republicans for canceling a public hearing scheduled for next week. Committee chairman Devin Nunes, a California Republican, told reporters Friday that it hasn’t been determined whether Manafort -- who has come under scrutiny for work he’s done for figures tied to Russian President Vladimir Putin -- will testify in public as well as in a closed-door meeting. As early as 2005, long before he worked for Trump’s election, Manafort secretly worked for a Russian billionaire close to Putin with a plan to "greatly benefit the Putin Government," the Associated Press reported this week. Manafort has denied any wrongdoing. But partisan divisions within the intelligence panel were exacerbated by Nunes’s decision to put off a public session scheduled for next week with former Obama administration officials. Representative Adam Schiff of California, the committee’s ranking Democrat, accused Nunes of caving in to the White House demands to avoid discussion of a politically sensitive topic. “What other explanation can there be?” Schiff told reporters. Explosive Question The investigation by U.S. intelligence agencies of Russian meddling -- including the hacking and release of Democratic emails -- has expanded into the explosive question of whether anyone close to Trump was involved in the effort. FBI Director James Comey testified before Nunes’s panel on Monday that his agency’s investigation of Russian interference includes “the nature of any links between individuals associated with the Trump campaign and the Russian government and whether there was any coordination between the campaign and Russia’s efforts.” Trump and his spokesmen have denied any such collaboration. Read about Comey, the Russia probe and the FISA court -- a QuickTake Q&A Nunes angered Democrats on the committee when he announced on Wednesday that intelligence agencies collected multiple conversations involving members of Trump’s transition team during surveillance of foreign targets after he won election last year. He said the surveillance, which wasn’t targeted at Trump or related to Russia, appeared to be entirely legal. The Republican took the almost unprecedented step of calling an impromptu press conference to discuss highly classified documents he hadn’t shared with fellow committee members and then heading to the White House to brief Trump on his allegations. Nunes said the March 28 committee hearing with the former Obama officials is being postponed to allow renewed questioning by the panel of Comey and National Security Agency director Mike Rogers. Nunes said the two were being recalled to be interviewed behind closed doors on matters that weren’t fully addressed in the committee’s open hearing on Monday or in documents recently received by the committee. "The committee will seek additional information from the Monday hearing that can only be addressed in closed session," said Nunes.

Paul Manafort, campaign chairman for Donald Trump, speaks during a Bloomberg Politics breakfast at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland on July 18, 2016.

Paul Manafort, former chairman of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, offered to meet with the House Intelligence Committee investigating Russian interference, even as the panel’s top Democrat blasted Republicans for canceling a public hearing scheduled for next week.

Committee chairman Devin Nunes, a California Republican, told reporters Friday that it hasn’t been determined whether Manafort -- who has come under scrutiny for work he’s done for figures tied to Russian President Vladimir Putin -- will testify in public as well as in a closed-door meeting.

As early as 2005, long before he worked for Trump’s election, Manafort secretly worked for a Russian billionaire close to Putin with a plan to "greatly benefit the Putin Government," the Associated Press reported this week. Manafort has denied any wrongdoing.

Keep up with the best of Bloomberg Politics. Get our newsletter daily.

But partisan divisions within the intelligence panel were exacerbated by Nunes’s decision to put off a public session scheduled for next week with former Obama administration officials. Representative Adam Schiff of California, the committee’s ranking Democrat, accused Nunes of caving in to the White House demands to avoid discussion of a politically sensitive topic. “What other explanation can there be?” Schiff told reporters.

Explosive Question

The investigation by U.S. intelligence agencies of Russian meddling -- including the hacking and release of Democratic emails -- has expanded into the explosive question of whether anyone close to Trump was involved in the effort.

FBI Director James Comey testified before Nunes’s panel on Monday that his agency’s investigation of Russian interference includes “the nature of any links between individuals associated with the Trump campaign and the Russian government and whether there was any coordination between the campaign and Russia’s efforts.” Trump and his spokesmen have denied any such collaboration.

Read about Comey, the Russia probe and the FISA court -- a QuickTake Q&A

Nunes angered Democrats on the committee when he announced on Wednesday that intelligence agencies collected multiple conversations involving members of Trump’s transition team during surveillance of foreign targets after he won election last year. He said the surveillance, which wasn’t targeted at Trump or related to Russia, appeared to be entirely legal.

The Republican took the almost unprecedented step of calling an impromptu press conference to discuss highly classified documents he hadn’t shared with fellow committee members and then heading to the White House to brief Trump on his allegations.

Nunes said the March 28 committee hearing with the former Obama officials is being postponed to allow renewed questioning by the panel of Comey and National Security Agency director Mike Rogers.

Nunes said the two were being recalled to be interviewed behind closed doors on matters that weren’t fully addressed in the committee’s open hearing on Monday or in documents recently received by the committee.

"The committee will seek additional information from the Monday hearing that can only be addressed in closed session," said Nunes.