CBS interested in adding Tony Romo as analyst
Source: CBS joining chase for Cowboys' Romo
Source: CBS joining chase for Cowboys' Romo Malcolm Butler shows where NFL players are still powerless Busts, suspensions and few stars: Revisiting wild first round of 2013 NFL draft Justin Tucker endorses kickoff rule proposal for splitting uprights Bears sign Mark Sanchez for experience, but drafting quarterback remains priority Redskins want NFL to ditch 'garish uniforms' on Thursday nights Report: Sean Payton, Johnny Manziel met during Super Bowl week Stop blaming Darrell Bevell for Seahawks' offensive issues As Adrian Peterson turns 32, he's still waiting on his new team Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covered NFL since 1997, Cowboys since 2003 Previously covered Bengals and Dolphins Lives in Dallas area with his wife and two children Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment FRISCO, Texas -- The Tony Romo Watch used to be about the Denver Broncos or Houston Texans . It is also about Fox and CBS. A source told ESPN's Adam Schefter that CBS is making a strong push to add the Dallas Cowboys quarterback to its team. A source told Schefter earlier this month that Fox was interested in Romo replacing John Lynch as an analyst. While sources indicated that Romo would be released by Dallas on March 9, the Cowboys continue to hold on to the quarterback as free agency enters its third week in hopes of a potential trade that may never come. The Cowboys do not need to make a move on Romo for salary-cap purposes and are content to wait. Perhaps next week's owners meetings could spur action, but it is also possible Romo could walk away from the game. Retirement has been an option for Romo, who turns 37 next month. He has had back and collarbone injuries the past two seasons that have limited him to parts of five games, and he played in just one series in 2016. Romo has two young sons and a third child on the way. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

FRISCO, Texas -- The Tony Romo Watch used to be about the Denver Broncos or Houston Texans. It is also about Fox and CBS.

A source told ESPN's Adam Schefter that CBS is making a strong push to add the Dallas Cowboys quarterback to its team. A source told Schefter earlier this month that Fox was interested in Romo replacing John Lynch as an analyst.

While sources indicated that Romo would be released by Dallas on March 9, the Cowboys continue to hold on to the quarterback as free agency enters its third week in hopes of a potential trade that may never come. The Cowboys do not need to make a move on Romo for salary-cap purposes and are content to wait. Perhaps next week's owners meetings could spur action, but it is also possible Romo could walk away from the game.

Retirement has been an option for Romo, who turns 37 next month. He has had back and collarbone injuries the past two seasons that have limited him to parts of five games, and he played in just one series in 2016. Romo has two young sons and a third child on the way.