Paul Manafort to Testify Before House Intelligence Panel
Paul Manafort to Testify Before House Intelligence Panel
WASHINGTON — Paul Manafort, who served as President Trump’s campaign manager and is under fire for his ties to Russia, will testify before the House Intelligence Committee, the panel’s chairman said on Friday. The chairman, Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, said Mr. Manafort had volunteered to appear before the committee as it conducts an investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election. Jason Maloni, Mr. Manafort’s spokesman, confirmed the announcement. “Mr. Manafort instructed his representatives to reach out to committee staff and offer to provide information voluntarily regarding recent allegations about Russian interference in the election,” Mr. Maloni said in a statement. “As Mr. Manafort has always maintained, he looks forward to meeting with those conducting serious investigations of these issues to discuss the facts.” Mr. Manafort has offered to appear before the Senate Intelligence Committee as well, according to a Senate official who requested anonymity to discuss committee business. Advertisement Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the committee’s Democratic vice chairman, had said the committee needed to talk to Mr. Manafort because members were concerned about his connections to a former Ukrainian president and a Russian tycoon close to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy In a decision that Democrats immediately rebuked, Mr. Nunes also said he would replace a scheduled public hearing with former intelligence and law enforcement officials with a closed-door proceeding to hear from the directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the National Security Agency, who testified in a public hearing before the committee on Monday. Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the House panel’s top Democrat, slammed Mr. Nunes for canceling the hearing, which was scheduled for Tuesday, with James R. Clapper, a former director of national intelligence; John O. Brennan, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency; and Sally Q. Yates, who served as acting attorney general in January. Calling it “an attempt to choke off” public information, Mr. Schiff said he believed Mr. Nunes had scuttled the hearing under pressure from the White House after Monday’s hearing. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

WASHINGTON — Paul Manafort, who served as President Trump’s campaign manager and is under fire for his ties to Russia, will testify before the House Intelligence Committee, the panel’s chairman said on Friday.

The chairman, Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California, said Mr. Manafort had volunteered to appear before the committee as it conducts an investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election. Jason Maloni, Mr. Manafort’s spokesman, confirmed the announcement.

“Mr. Manafort instructed his representatives to reach out to committee staff and offer to provide information voluntarily regarding recent allegations about Russian interference in the election,” Mr. Maloni said in a statement. “As Mr. Manafort has always maintained, he looks forward to meeting with those conducting serious investigations of these issues to discuss the facts.”

Mr. Manafort has offered to appear before the Senate Intelligence Committee as well, according to a Senate official who requested anonymity to discuss committee business.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the committee’s Democratic vice chairman, had said the committee needed to talk to Mr. Manafort because members were concerned about his connections to a former Ukrainian president and a Russian tycoon close to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

In a decision that Democrats immediately rebuked, Mr. Nunes also said he would replace a scheduled public hearing with former intelligence and law enforcement officials with a closed-door proceeding to hear from the directors of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the National Security Agency, who testified in a public hearing before the committee on Monday.

Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the House panel’s top Democrat, slammed Mr. Nunes for canceling the hearing, which was scheduled for Tuesday, with James R. Clapper, a former director of national intelligence; John O. Brennan, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency; and Sally Q. Yates, who served as acting attorney general in January.

Calling it “an attempt to choke off” public information, Mr. Schiff said he believed Mr. Nunes had scuttled the hearing under pressure from the White House after Monday’s hearing.