Prince George to attend private day school where best friends are 'banned'
Prince George to attend private day school where best friends are 'banned'
rince George is to join a new private day school where the first rule is to “be kind” and children are discouraged from picking a best friend in case of hurt feelings. Prince George, aged three, will join Thomas’s, Battersea, in September, as he begins his journey into full-time formal education. The young Prince will attend the mixed-sex day school, which costs £6,110 a term and has a particular focus on the arts, sports and the importance of outdoor activities. he school said it was honoured that its aims and values “reflect those that Their Royal Highnesses would like for Prince George’s education”. A spokesman for Kensington Palace said:  "Their Royal Highnesses are delighted to have found a school where they are confident George will have a happy and successful start to his education." rincipals of the school, Ben and Tobyn Thomas, informed parents of their new pupil earlier today, pledging that it would not change as a result of Prince George attendance. In a message, they told parents: “The Duke and Duchess have made it clear that they do not wish Prince George's attendance at Thomas's to change its aims, values or ethos in any way. “They would like, as far as is possible, for him to enjoy the same education that all of our pupils receive and for them to join the school community as all of our new parents do.” ecurity and communication strategies have already been closely examined ahead of the announcement, as teachers and parents brace for the increased attention. he school’s website details how its most important rule is to “be kind”, with a teaching framework based on “enjoyment, learning and achievement”. t states: “Whilst we are proud of our record of senior school entrance and scholarship successes, we place a greater emphasis on a set of core values, which include kindness, courtesy, confidence, humility and learning to be givers, not takers.” According to Tatler's guide to schools, the school boasts a counsellor and programme to track pupils’ "emotional responses". en Thomas, the headteacher, has previously spoken how how he hoped pupils would have “lots of good friends” rather than one best friend, in a bid to avoid possessive and hurt feelings. Prince George was previously expected to attend Wetherby School , his father’s alma mater. Until now, he has attended a small village nursery close to the Cambridge's home in Anmer, Norfolk: the £5.50-an-hour Westacre Montessori. he Duchess of Cambridge has previously said: “My parents taught me about the importance of qualities like kindness, respect, and honesty, and I realise how central values like these have been to me throughout my life. “That is why William and I want to teach our little children, George and Charlotte, just how important these things are as they grow up. “In my view it is just as important as excelling at maths or sport.”

Prince George is to join a new private day school where the first rule is to “be kind” and children are discouraged from picking a best friend in case of hurt feelings.

Prince George, aged three, will join Thomas’s, Battersea, in September, as he begins his journey into full-time formal education.

The young Prince will attend the mixed-sex day school, which costs £6,110 a term and has a particular focus on the arts, sports and the importance of outdoor activities.