Washington Pizzeria Gunman Pleads Guilty to Weapons Charges
Washington Pizzeria Gunman Pleads Guilty to Weapons Charges
WASHINGTON — A 28-year-old North Carolina man pleaded guilty Friday in federal court to firing a military-style assault rifle inside a Washington pizza restaurant as he investigated spurious claims in online articles that the pizzeria was at the center of a child sex-slave ring. The man, Edgar Maddison Welch, of Salisbury, N.C., also admitted that he transported a firearm and ammunition across state lines, a federal charge. He faces up to two decades in prison on both felony charges, but prosecutors and defense lawyers agreed he should serve no more than a maximum of seven years. Mr. Welch, who remains in custody, is scheduled to be sentenced in June. According to prosecutors, Mr. Welch traveled on Dec. 4 from North Carolina to the Comet Ping Pong restaurant in Northwest Washington after reading unfounded online reports that the restaurant had been harboring child sex slaves as part of a child-abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton, then the Democratic nominee for president. Prosecutors said Mr. Welch also watched YouTube videos about the false stories. The authorities said Mr. Welch told friends that he was “sacrificing the lives of a few for the lives of many” and “standing up against a corrupt system that kidnaps, tortures and rapes babies and children in our own backyard.” Prosecutors said his friends declined to help carry out his mission. Advertisement While driving, Mr. Welch sent messages and made a video suggesting he might not return home alive. Mr. Welch was armed with an AR-15 rifle, a .38-caliber revolver and a shotgun when he arrived at the restaurant. At about 3 p.m., he walked into the pizzeria with the rifle and holstered handgun, which was visible to employees and patrons. He left the shotgun in the car. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Prosecutors said people inside the restaurant panicked and fled. While inside, Mr. Welch fired his rifle into a locked door and also pointed the weapon at an employee carrying pizza dough. Mr. Welch spent about 20 minutes inside the restaurant and then walked unarmed outside, where he was arrested. Prosecutors said Mr. Welch left the rifle and handgun in the restaurant. In an interview with The New York Times shortly after his arrest, Mr. Welch said he had gone to the restaurant with good intentions. He said the “thought of innocent people suffering” broke his heart. But he also said he regretted how he handled the situation. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

WASHINGTON — A 28-year-old North Carolina man pleaded guilty Friday in federal court to firing a military-style assault rifle inside a Washington pizza restaurant as he investigated spurious claims in online articles that the pizzeria was at the center of a child sex-slave ring.

The man, Edgar Maddison Welch, of Salisbury, N.C., also admitted that he transported a firearm and ammunition across state lines, a federal charge. He faces up to two decades in prison on both felony charges, but prosecutors and defense lawyers agreed he should serve no more than a maximum of seven years.

Mr. Welch, who remains in custody, is scheduled to be sentenced in June.

According to prosecutors, Mr. Welch traveled on Dec. 4 from North Carolina to the Comet Ping Pong restaurant in Northwest Washington after reading unfounded online reports that the restaurant had been harboring child sex slaves as part of a child-abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton, then the Democratic nominee for president. Prosecutors said Mr. Welch also watched YouTube videos about the false stories.

The authorities said Mr. Welch told friends that he was “sacrificing the lives of a few for the lives of many” and “standing up against a corrupt system that kidnaps, tortures and rapes babies and children in our own backyard.” Prosecutors said his friends declined to help carry out his mission.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While driving, Mr. Welch sent messages and made a video suggesting he might not return home alive.

Mr. Welch was armed with an AR-15 rifle, a .38-caliber revolver and a shotgun when he arrived at the restaurant. At about 3 p.m., he walked into the pizzeria with the rifle and holstered handgun, which was visible to employees and patrons. He left the shotgun in the car.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Prosecutors said people inside the restaurant panicked and fled. While inside, Mr. Welch fired his rifle into a locked door and also pointed the weapon at an employee carrying pizza dough.

Mr. Welch spent about 20 minutes inside the restaurant and then walked unarmed outside, where he was arrested. Prosecutors said Mr. Welch left the rifle and handgun in the restaurant.

In an interview with The New York Times shortly after his arrest, Mr. Welch said he had gone to the restaurant with good intentions. He said the “thought of innocent people suffering” broke his heart. But he also said he regretted how he handled the situation.