VIDEO: Officer Drives Over Woman as She Allegedly Shoots at Police
VIDEO: Officer Drives Over Woman as She Allegedly Shoots at Police
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Tulsa Police on Thursday released dash cam footage of an officer running over 21-year-old Madison Dickson as she allegedly fired at police. KFOR reports that Dickson “was wanted for a string of gun-related crimes, including shooting one man in the head and shooting a woman in the arm during an attempted carjacking.” She had been charged “with shooting with intent to kill, two counts of assault with a dangerous weapon, unauthorized use of a vehicle, attempted larceny and discharging a firearm in a public place from incidents on March 11 and March 12.” FOR OUR NEWSLETTER On March 18 police were chasing Dickson when she allegedly opened fire on them. A dash cam recording picked up the sound of the shots and appears to show Dickson point a gun at the pursuing officer’s car: Authorities say the sound of gun shots was Dickson allegedly firing at them and two officers firing back. A dash cam recording from another car on scene has also been released: Dickson died from injuries sustained in the incident.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Tulsa Police on Thursday released dash cam footage of an officer running over 21-year-old Madison Dickson as she allegedly fired at police.

KFOR reports that Dickson “was wanted for a string of gun-related crimes, including shooting one man in the head and shooting a woman in the arm during an attempted carjacking.” She had been charged “with shooting with intent to kill, two counts of assault with a dangerous weapon, unauthorized use of a vehicle, attempted larceny and discharging a firearm in a public place from incidents on March 11 and March 12.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

On March 18 police were chasing Dickson when she allegedly opened fire on them. A dash cam recording picked up the sound of the shots and appears to show Dickson point a gun at the pursuing officer’s car:

Authorities say the sound of gun shots was Dickson allegedly firing at them and two officers firing back.

A dash cam recording from another car on scene has also been released:

Dickson died from injuries sustained in the incident.

AWR Hawkins is the Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News and host of Bullets with AWR Hawkins, a Breitbart News podcast. He is also the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com.