The Most Savage Memes Inspired by Kendrick Lamar's "The Heart Part 4"
The Most Savage Memes Inspired by Kendrick Lamar's "The Heart Part 4"
When Kendrick Lamar drops a track like "The Heart Part 4," it's time for the culture to stand up and pay attention. For the most part, my Twitter timeline has been on one, primarily dissecting what looks like the latest shot in the saga that is K-Dot and Big Sean's relationship post-"Control," but because it is Twitter, cats are getting those savage tweets off. F*ck it, it is a Friday, why not have some fun? And what better way to treat oneself than to dive head first into the illest memes that were born from K-Dot's pen? Is this where those K-Dot/Sean convos started? yall think kendrick is talking about drake but he's really talking about big sean pic.twitter.com/vHbvqlrKMT For those of you wondering what Drake—who owned the conversation prior to "The Heart Part 4" dropping—would be feeling, don't worry; there's a meme for that. "Kendrick be like 'Shut the fck up.' I be quiet.  But when he leave, I be rappin again." pic.twitter.com/mKjdn7yrsZ That feel when you aren't sure if Kendrick's dissing you or the other dude. Drake and Big Sean trying to figure out who Kendrick was sending shots at pic.twitter.com/zy3lY4tmgm Truth be told, though, Kendrick has been shooting at everybody since "Control." Kendrick Lamar to everyone else. pic.twitter.com/X4Is2xDtqC KENDRICK COMING! When Kendrick Lamar drops his new album pic.twitter.com/QAAvmMsi9g And this is just facts. Kendrick when the beat switched pic.twitter.com/1j61c6Dbou Kendrick's sitting in the studio like, "I wish you would." kendrick when he senses another rapper might have spit a bar about him pic.twitter.com/jP7HjUyAkP Meanwhile, battle lines are being drawn amongst the public. "Big Sean CAN wash Kendrick tho." pic.twitter.com/BolIHP33Ih Yikes. How 'more life' sounds after that Kendrick dropped that single pic.twitter.com/6m2hyN5wNE And of course Meryl Streep had to make an appearance. Kendrick: You jumped sides on me  Oklahoma: Now you 'bout to meet Westbrook pic.twitter.com/U87D6Mrmcs Sadly, five minutes of bars, sans hook, isn't for everyone in these digital skreets. 5 minute songs of straight rapping w/ no hook or autotune pic.twitter.com/xS8nByFS1X This might be the best way to describe "The Heart Part 4," though. Listening to kendrick lamar's - the heart part 4 had me like pic.twitter.com/rsSQnUrILu

When Kendrick Lamar drops a track like "The Heart Part 4," it's time for the culture to stand up and pay attention. For the most part, my Twitter timeline has been on one, primarily dissecting what looks like the latest shot in the saga that is K-Dot and Big Sean's relationship post-"Control," but because it is Twitter, cats are getting those savage tweets off. F*ck it, it is a Friday, why not have some fun? And what better way to treat oneself than to dive head first into the illest memes that were born from K-Dot's pen?

Is this where those K-Dot/Sean convos started?

yall think kendrick is talking about drake but he's really talking about big sean pic.twitter.com/vHbvqlrKMT — Ahmed/Rozay Top 5 (@big_business_) March 24, 2017

For those of you wondering what Drake—who owned the conversation prior to "The Heart Part 4" dropping—would be feeling, don't worry; there's a meme for that.

"Kendrick be like 'Shut the fck up.' I be quiet.



But when he leave, I be rappin again." pic.twitter.com/mKjdn7yrsZ — mauriice (@tallmaurice) March 24, 2017

That feel when you aren't sure if Kendrick's dissing you or the other dude.

Drake and Big Sean trying to figure out who Kendrick was sending shots at pic.twitter.com/zy3lY4tmgm — pt. 😔💕 (@xPTvo) March 24, 2017

Truth be told, though, Kendrick has been shooting at everybody since "Control."

Kendrick Lamar to everyone else. pic.twitter.com/X4Is2xDtqC — Ben Frank (@BenFrankIV) March 24, 2017

KENDRICK COMING!

When Kendrick Lamar drops his new album pic.twitter.com/QAAvmMsi9g — Hip-Hop Heads (@HipHopHeads) March 24, 2017

And this is just facts.

Kendrick when the beat switched pic.twitter.com/1j61c6Dbou — YANNO (@YOURYANNO) March 24, 2017

Kendrick's sitting in the studio like, "I wish you would."

kendrick when he senses another rapper might have spit a bar about him pic.twitter.com/jP7HjUyAkP — ☕netw3rk (@netw3rk) March 24, 2017

Meanwhile, battle lines are being drawn amongst the public.

"Big Sean CAN wash Kendrick tho." pic.twitter.com/BolIHP33Ih — Lightskin Migos (@PrinceMarcus_24) March 24, 2017

Yikes.

How 'more life' sounds after that Kendrick dropped that single pic.twitter.com/6m2hyN5wNE — • (@May15Forever) March 24, 2017

And of course Meryl Streep had to make an appearance.

Kendrick: You jumped sides on me



Oklahoma: Now you 'bout to meet Westbrook pic.twitter.com/U87D6Mrmcs — C. W. McKennell (@ClayMcKennell) March 24, 2017

Sadly, five minutes of bars, sans hook, isn't for everyone in these digital skreets.

5 minute songs of straight rapping w/ no hook or autotune pic.twitter.com/xS8nByFS1X — Alphonse (@Al_Peeair) March 24, 2017

This might be the best way to describe "The Heart Part 4," though.