Chilean tourist is saved after 9 days in Amazon rainforest
Tourist lost in the Amazon rainforest says monkeys helped him survive


A Chilean tourist who got lost in the the Amazon rainforest for nine days says a group of monkeys helped him survive by dropping him food and leading him to shelter and water.

Maykool Coroseo Acuña, 25, was camping in Bolivia's Madidi National Park near the Tuichi River with tour company Max Adventures when he wandered off and got lost in the forest.

The story behind the whirlwind nine days that saw Acuña being accused of disrespecting Mother Nature, shamans praying away evil spirits, and monkeys dropping pieces of fruit has been revealed in a report by National Geographic.

Acuña disappeared from his cabin one evening in February, around 8.30pm, without leaving a trace behind.

Madidi Park Director Marcos Uzquiana initially said that park rangers weren't sure what happened during his disappearance, saying 'someone may be lying'.

Maykool Coroseo Acuña, 25, was camping in Bolivia's Madidi National Park near the Tuichi River with tour company Max Adventures when he wandered off and got lost in the forest

Park rangers spent several days looking for Acuña but were unsuccessful. Six days after his disappearance, all they found was a muddy sock lying on the ground of the forest

Acuña was covered in bites and cuts when he was found, as a result of being in the wilderness for nine days

Acuña had been with a tour group from Max Adventures, in a remote area of the national park that is only accessible by boat and miles from the nearest town.

Max Adventures owner Feizar Nava said that Acuña had signed up for a tour with travelers he'd met the previous day, and the group went into the rainforest for an afternoon of exploring with guides.

When they returned to camp, Acuña was visibly excited, though 'acting a little bit strange', Nava said, adding that his face 'didn't look normal'.

Acuña then refused to join other travelers at the cabin participating in a Pachamama - or Mother Nature - ceremony to thank Pachamama for letting them enter the forest.

The traditional ceremony involves coca leaves, candles and cigarettes.

As others participated in the ceremony, a guide went to the cabin to check on Acuña, but he was nowhere to be found.

Nine days after his disappearance, rangers heard Acuña screaming from a riverbank less than a mile from camp

Spiritual shamans were invited to the camp to take part in rituals in an attempt to locate the Acuña, and they even used the muddy sock to try to make contact with his soul

The group spent hours searching for Acuña, but he disappeared without a trace. Nava was convinced it was because he didn't participate in the Pachamama Ceremony, thus offending Mother Nature.

She said that those who disrespect Pachamama could be driven mad by Duende, an evil spirit who hides victims in other dimensions.

'For myself and the rangers, this is our culture,' Park director Uzquiano told National Geographic. 'We believe that Duende is real. And we think it's possible that Maykool was taken by him.'

Park rangers spent several days looking for Acuña, but were unsuccessful. Six days after his disappearance, all they found was a muddy sock lying on the ground of the forest.

Spiritual shamans were invited to the camp to take part in rituals in an attempt to locate the Acuña, and they even used the muddy sock to try to make contact with his soul.

The shamans brought several items in hopes that they would help them breach the spiritual domain: blocks of sugar tableaux, cigarettes, beer cans, coca leaves, wine bottles, candles, confetti and a large wooden cross

Acuña had to be carried back to camp on a stretcher made of blankets and branches after he was discovered by the riverback

Max Adventures owner Feizar Nava said that Acuña had signed up for a tour with travelers he'd met the previous day, and the group went into the rainforest for an afternoon of exploring with guides

Acuña thanked his rescuers and took a photo with the group that searched for him for days after he was brought back to camp

Acuña said that the night before he was discovered by the riverbank, he prayed that he would be saved

They performed several ceremonies in hopes of contacting Acuña, who they believed was stuck in another dimension.

Nine days after his disappearance, rangers heard Acuña screaming from a riverbank less than a mile from camp.

Acuña, who was badly bitten and stung after being in the wilderness for a week and a half, said he only stayed alive by following a pack of monkeys.

He said they dropped fruit for him to eat and led him to shelter and water every day.

He told the magazine: 'I started running, I was wearing sandals and I said 'no, they would slow me down'.

'I threw away the sandals, then the cell phone and my flashlight.

'And after running so much, I stopped under a tree and I started thinking. What had I done, what was I doing? And when I wanted to get back it wasn't possible.'

Acuña said that the night before he was discovered by the riverbank, he prayed that he would be saved.

Acuña said that he doesn't believe in shamans or the cultures of the Bolivian jungles - he believes it was God who saved him.