Jonathan Isaac Declares for 2017 NBA Draft, Won't Return to FSU
Jonathan Isaac Declares for 2017 NBA Draft, Won't Return to FSU
Florida State forward Jonathan Isaac declared for the 2017 NBA draft Friday following a standout freshman season with the Seminoles. He shared the news in a video message on his Twitter page: Thank you Noles!! God bless ❤️ https://t.co/U1SsbDO91z At 6'10" and 210 pounds, Isaac proved to be a matchup nightmare for ACC opponents all season long. In 30 games before the NCAA tournament, the athletic dynamo averaged 11.9 points, 7.6 rebounds, 1.5 blocks and 1.1 steals while shooting 50.2 percent from the field and 35.3 percent from three. According to Sports-Reference.com , Isaac was one of 15 players who averaged at least 11 points, seven boards, one block and one steal during the 2016-17 season. If there's an area where Isaac needs to improve, it's in the weight room. Although the 19-year-old has the height to be a small-ball 4 in more athletic and flexible lineups, he needs to add some bulk to his frame in order to morph into a reliable post defender. Assuming the likely lottery pick can take that developmental step, the sky is the limit as he sets his sights on becoming a well-rounded inside-outside threat. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Don Juan Moore/Getty Images

Florida State forward Jonathan Isaac declared for the 2017 NBA draft Friday following a standout freshman season with the Seminoles.

He shared the news in a video message on his Twitter page:

At 6'10" and 210 pounds, Isaac proved to be a matchup nightmare for ACC opponents all season long. In 30 games before the NCAA tournament, the athletic dynamo averaged 11.9 points, 7.6 rebounds, 1.5 blocks and 1.1 steals while shooting 50.2 percent from the field and 35.3 percent from three.

According to Sports-Reference.com, Isaac was one of 15 players who averaged at least 11 points, seven boards, one block and one steal during the 2016-17 season.

"I just want to be a multi-faceted player, and not somebody that only wants to score the ball or only wants the ball in their hands," he said in January, according to the Orlando Sentinel's Safid Deen.

At the next level, that approach should serve Isaac well.

Not only can he contribute in a multitude of ways on both ends of the floor, but he also owns the NBA-ready frame and quick first step necessary to become a versatile combo-forward at his next destination.

As The Ringer's Jonathan Tjarks noted, "His skill set would allow him to fit on almost any team in the lottery, and a player with his combination of size, shooting ability, and athleticism makes for a useful NBA player, even if he never develops any further."

If there's an area where Isaac needs to improve, it's in the weight room.

Although the 19-year-old has the height to be a small-ball 4 in more athletic and flexible lineups, he needs to add some bulk to his frame in order to morph into a reliable post defender.

Assuming the likely lottery pick can take that developmental step, the sky is the limit as he sets his sights on becoming a well-rounded inside-outside threat.