India v Australia: fourth Test, day one – live!

How’s the tempo of this first hour? Another single to point from Warner gives the main man Smith another crack. He’s on the advance, but unable to beat the field with some pushes. Not the case when Bhuvneshwar is a fraction wider, the Australian captain throwing the proverbial kitchen sink at a cut shot. It’s to the boundary at point in no time at all.      Warner past point for one early in the over. Scoring well through that part of the ground. It’s when you know he’s in decent nick. Smith then plays the . Barely off-target, the captain clips Umesh with the timing of Mark Waugh or VVS Laxman or David Gower. It’s real pretty running into the mid-on rope. The replay shows it wasn’t even straight, basically outside off-stump. Freak. In ODI terms, the power play is over. And that’s how it has felt the last few overs. Kohli the biggest name drinks waiter since? pic.twitter.com/5WAmjoU8kX Updated       Better from Bhuvi. Early in the over he’s far closer to the off-stump than Umesh was in the previous set, Smith watching cautiously. When using his bat, Smith defends off the edge. Twice. He’s back to leaving and defending to see the over through. Good contest emerging between the pair. The first maiden of the day.      Righto, Smith is in. A lovely, compact drive past point runs away to the boundary to begin the Umesh over. Next up, he misses waaaay outside the off-stump and Smith doesn’t hesitate helping it on its way to the cover boundary. Through the air bit no real danger. Consecutive fours. Two more with another drive in a similar direction. Umesh goes upstairs to end the over, and Smith has a crack at that as well, hooking to fine leg for one. 11 from it. As you do 40 minutes into a Test Match. After battling badly to begin, he’s now 19 from 21 balls. That’s why he’s the top-ranked bat in the world. Enjoy some imagery from TV commentary. So much imagery. RS: now that is a serious tracer bullet, it’s hit the fence at a rate of knots, not a muscle moved. MH: Pick the bones out of this.      Bhuvneshwar misses the mark first ball, but only just. Enough of Warner’s pad makes contact to secure four leg-byes. He’s defending the next three deliveries. I don’t think he’s left one yet come to think of it? Oh, now a ! That’s come racing back at Warner who didn’t want to play, but it was all too late. It went over the cordon and down to the rope. He survives. Superb bowling, giving him nothing here. Phil Withall has dropped a line on twitter. “With Virat running drinks we can expect a lot of stoppages. Captaining when not captaining?” I didn’t spot that he had raced on during that previous break in play. Brilliant result. Guaranteed to end up in a stoush. Would be wrong for Kohli not to be involved in the finale at least to that extent.      One of those impromptu drinks breaks, after 30 minutes, when the ball goes bung. The fourth official is out there with umpires Erasmus and Gould to try and find a new one. Pretty hard work finding a ball 5.4 overs old, I would have thought? But they’ve done it. It came after the Australians turned the strike over to three consecutive deliveries, albeit with strokes that were well away from the middle of their bats. After the changed ball it’s better for Warner, who pushes out to point to retain the strike. Disco Bob is battling his way to enjoying this Test. He’s written in to tell us all about it. “My Foxtel play 2 week trial has expired, so instead of the picturesque Dharmasala stadium with it’s snow covered peaks spread over the full 15 inches of my retina MacBook screen, I have the cricinfo commentary and the Grauniad OBO divided evenly. However I have used another credit card and signed up for another 2 week trial subscription but due to the cunning code warriors at Foxtel they have detected that my Mac has already had a two week trial, so at the foot of the screen I have propped up against the base my trusty iPhone 4s which fortunately I did not authorise before and so I watch the match on my little 4” screen with a Demi bottle of cleanskin Botrysis Semillon desert wine by my side. The upside is that when it comes time to put the pizza on or go for a whiz, I can take the 4s with me and not miss out on the action.”      Smith just working his way in here. We’ve seen it many times from the Aussie captain, looking vulnerable before facing 300 balls. He grabs a couple with a flick to midwicket after Bhuvi overpitches. Then two more to the same region after Smith shuffles across with confidence. A tense moment follows, defending off the inside edge and But he’s back in the groove right away with a lovely off-drive to end the set. Shame, for him, there is a fielder there. Thilo Fobes has his say on the tweet. “Aus said before series they’d go horses for courses, but looks like it should have been bird for ... eh (CA) shirt.” Smith definitely had it in mind when he spoke to us two days out from the Test. But his position seemed to soften by yesterday after a long look at the track. His assessment was that there’s enough grass to keep it interesting, but still rock hard and likely to turn. That they’re batting first (and bowling fourth) helps in validating the spin-twin decision.      Classic Warner version 2.0 to end the over, standing high in the crease and pushing with perfect timing to the point boundary. That’s pretty much exactly how he lodged a century in a session at Sydney a couple of months back. Until that point, singles were taken by each, in turn Smith off the mark with a push to mid-on. Not many in at the ground at this stage. The pattern of the series is that they’ve piled in after lunch. Let’s hope they do. Hard to think of a better spot to watch our sport. What do you reckon? Get excited sitting on the fort at Galle? Fancy the horseshoe set up at Adelaide? Basin Reserve gives it a nudge, for mine. But this is something else.      Warner far more cautious now, watching Bhuvi who had it going both ways in his first set. He gets off strike when inside-edging an inducker. The Indian quick right on his game. Smith had three balls to look at, and each of those were defended awkwardly, none hitting the middle of the bat. Proper graft required from both. Here’s that shot from before the game I mentioned. What a place. Australia getting a taste of English conditions in beautiful Dharamsala. #AUSvIND  pic.twitter.com/seojlbe2bu      Smith is tempted before leaving a shorter ball to end the over. It’s quick, with plenty of swing after passing the batsman. The Australian leadership team both at the crease now. Warner, having given that chance first up, has a huge job. Hasn’t fired a meaningful shot this series, and he knows it. As for Smith, he was blessed by the Dalai Lama yesterday. Not that he needs any added edge to score heavily in this series. No reason for third slip to be so close. Potentially, a costly positional error above all else with that Warner drop. #INDvAUS      WICKET! Renshaw b Umesh 0 (Australia 10-1) The youngster beaten pace and movement, slipping past the inside edge when driving, then crashing into his off-stump! Brushed the pad on the way through, it would have been leg before had it not gone onto the stumps. Spot on from Umesh, who has been brilliant throughout this series. The hosts are up and about, Kohli leaping from his chair on the sidelines. The Australian captain Smith on his way. Updated       Bloody hell! That would have been an utter disaster for Australia. Warner flayed at Bhuvneshwar. It’s moved significantly away from the left-hander, full enough to entice. Oh, it’s a before going to the rope Nair went to his left with a dive at third slip, but probably didn’t need to go with the one hand. He’s moving it both ways, Bhuvi, after getting the first over exactly for this. Singles are exchanged, Renshaw with a tidy clip. It will hurt watching Warner drive the last ball beautifully to the cover rope. Wow. Take a breath? 10 from it.      The highlight, an extraordinary shot the cameraman nabbed of the Australians arm in arm with the snow-covered mountains in the backdrop. No body contact from the Indians, belt and braces hands behind the back, looking straight ahead. Some early correspondence from Michael Spears gets the OBO off the mark. “Given the madness in sports since last year - Cleveland Cavaliers, Chicago Cubs, Superbowl comeback and extra time, Cronulla Sharks, Western Bulldogs,” he says. Before listing about six more. “My theory is that the end is nigh and sports is going out with a bang, with droughts broken, comebacks and underdogs winning. Consequently, I’m expecting a cracker!” Nice and optimistic. Expectations are sky high after three pulsating rubbers so far. And that’s where our pre-game ends. The players are ready to go. Buckle up.      Kuldeep, the new man into the Indian XI, is 22 years old. His left-arm chinaman has been collected 81 First Class wickets at 33 apiece across 22 starts. Paul Adams used to do pretty well here (three Tests, 14 wickets at 20), so that’s not for nothing. It’s bloody lovely outside. Not a cloud. The views looking towards the Himalayas are going to be really something. Chuck on a TV while watching on with me in a second tab. If we can’t talk rubbish today, during a Test like this on the opening morning, then when can we? Here’s the email , there’s the twitter . Show no discretion. Hit it hard.      AUSTRALIA TO BAT FIRST IN THE DECIDER AT DHARAMSALA Adam Collins Not quite Thriller in Manila, but I’m going with it. Adam Collins coming to you here from the Himalayan End of the wondrous HPCA Stadium in Dharamsala. For what, I think we can agree, is the most anticipated Border-Gavaskar Test since at least 2004. Winner takes all. We’ll come to the broader context in a tic. For now, I have news. To begin, Huge for the visitors. No hesitation from the captain. And at the toss . As expected, test on his troubled shoulder. Ajinkya Rahane is wearing the armband for the week. The forced change has the hosts bringing in debutant, left-arm wrist spinner Kuldeep Yadav. Then a second change we didn’t necessarily see coming, quick Bhuvneshwar Kumar into the Indian XI for his first Test since December, replacing Ishant Sharma. Rahul, Vijay, Pujara, Rahane (c), Nair, Ashwin, Saha (wk), Jadeja, Kumar, Umesh, Kuldeep. For Australia, the best two words in the selection table language: Warner, Renshaw, Smith (c), Shun Marsh, Handscomb, Maxwell, Wade (wk), Cummins, O’Keefe, Lyon, Hazlewood.      Adam will be here shortly. In the meantime, check out Andy Bull’s latest on the Cricket All Stars scheme. Updated   Australia cricket team   India cricket team   Cricket   Australia sport   Over by over reports

03:38

Not quite Thriller in Manila, but I’m going with it. Adam Collins coming to you here from the Himalayan End of the wondrous HPCA Stadium in Dharamsala. For what, I think we can agree, is the most anticipated Border-Gavaskar Test since at least 2004. Winner takes all.

We’ll come to the broader context in a tic. For now, I have news. To begin, Steve Smith has won the toss and Australia will bat! Huge for the visitors. No hesitation from the captain.



And at the toss it wasn’t Virat Kohli tossing the coin. As expected, he has failed a fitness test on his troubled shoulder. Ajinkya Rahane is wearing the armband for the week. The forced change has the hosts bringing in debutant, left-arm wrist spinner Kuldeep Yadav.

Then a second change we didn’t necessarily see coming, quick Bhuvneshwar Kumar into the Indian XI for his first Test since December, replacing Ishant Sharma.

Rahul, Vijay, Pujara, Rahane (c), Nair, Ashwin, Saha (wk), Jadeja, Kumar, Umesh, Kuldeep.

For Australia, the best two words in the selection table language: no change.

Warner, Renshaw, Smith (c), Shun Marsh, Handscomb, Maxwell, Wade (wk), Cummins, O’Keefe, Lyon, Hazlewood.