G.O.O.D. Music's 'Cruel Winter' Is 'Really Done,' According to CyHi the Prynce
G.O.O.D. Music's 'Cruel Winter' Is 'Really Done,' According to CyHi the Prynce
G.O.O.D. Music's 'Cruel Winter' Is 'Really Done,' According to CyHi the Prynce  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  G.O.O.D. Music's sequel to its 2012 offering might finally be seeing the light of day. In an interview with CyHi the Prynce delved into the label's elusive project and why it hasn't been released yet.Â "To be all the way honest with y'all, it's really done," he said. "The thing is, it's so many superstars, to get everybody on one accord and moving at the same time is tough... We got enough to put aÂ ,Â andÂ Â out." Â Rumors swirled that the long-awaited compilation album would arrive last June whenÂ Kanye WestÂ shocked fans by releasing the label's star-studded single Â "Champions ," featuringÂ Big Sean ,Â 2Â Chainz ,Â Gucci Mane , Quavo,Â Travis Scott ,Â Yo Gotti, Â andÂ Desiigner. Â  Later in the interview,Â CyHi also spoke about his contributions on Drake and Kanye West's collaboration "Glow,"Â which resides on the 6 God'sÂ playlist Â "At first when 'Ye played it for me I was like, 'Oh this is nice,' but KanyeÂ kinda already knew where he wanted to go with it," CyHi said. "I just helped them, I'm just in there like, 'I like the way you said that, or I think you should go up on that.' It was just a fun process on that song, but there were more songs that they did. It's a bunch of them, and if they put them together, it will be incredible."Â As for CyHi, he's currently putting the finishing touches on his debut album , which is set to featureÂ Travis Scott, Big Sean, Schoolboy Q , and Pusha T . The album will beÂ released this summer via Brooklyn Knights/Sony . CyHiÂ also recently dropped his "Legend" video, which you can view below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

G.O.O.D. Music's sequel to its 2012 offering Cruel Summer might finally be seeing the light of day. In an interview with Complex, CyHi the Prynce delved into the label's elusive project Cruel Winter and why it hasn't been released yet.Â

"To be all the way honest with y'all, it's really done," he said. "The thing is, it's so many superstars, to get everybody on one accord and moving at the same time is tough... We got enough to put aÂ Cruel Winter,Â Cruel Summer,Â Cruel Autumn, andÂ Cruel SpringÂ out." Â

Rumors swirled that the long-awaited compilation album would arrive last June whenÂ Kanye WestÂ shocked fans by releasing the label's star-studded single Â "Champions," featuringÂ Big Sean,Â 2Â Chainz,Â Gucci Mane, Quavo,Â Travis Scott,Â Yo Gotti,Â andÂ Desiigner.Â

Later in the interview,Â CyHi also spoke about his contributions on Drake and Kanye West's collaboration "Glow,"Â which resides on the 6 God'sÂ playlist More Life.Â

"At first when 'Ye played it for me I was like, 'Oh this is nice,' but KanyeÂ kinda already knew where he wanted to go with it," CyHi said. "I just helped them, I'm just in there like, 'I like the way you said that, or I think you should go up on that.' It was just a fun process on that song, but there were more songs that they did. It's a bunch of them, and if they put them together, it will be incredible."Â

As for CyHi, he's currently putting the finishing touches on his debut album No Dope on Sundays, which is set to featureÂ Travis Scott, Big Sean, Schoolboy Q, and Pusha T. The album will beÂ released this summer via Brooklyn Knights/Sony.

CyHiÂ also recently dropped his "Legend" video, which you can view below.