The Countries With The Highest Refusal Rates For U.S. Visas [Infographic]
The Countries With The Highest Refusal Rates For U.S. Visas [Infographic]
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Niall McCarthy       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. If you're a Cuban seeking a visa to enter the United States, it's more than likely going to be a case of "close but no cigar". Despite the thawing in relations between the two countries, Cuba has the distinction of having the highest rate of U.S. B Visa (tourism or business) refusals of any country worldwide. According to U.S. State Department data , 81.9 percent of all Cuban applications were denied in fiscal year 2016. Elsewhere, the highest rates of refusal were recorded in countries across Africa with Mauritania and Liberia in particular having refusal rates in excess of 70 percent. Afghanistan was second only to Cuba in terms of application denials with its refusal rate 73.8 percent. 38 countries are part of a visa waiver program and even though their citizens don't have to run the gauntlet of applying for a visa, they still have to provide the U.S. government with substantial personal information before they are admitted. Statista Visa refusal rate for U.S. visas by country in fiscal year 2016 Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

If you're a Cuban seeking a visa to enter the United States, it's more than likely going to be a case of "close but no cigar". Despite the thawing in relations between the two countries, Cuba has the distinction of having the highest rate of U.S. B Visa (tourism or business) refusals of any country worldwide. According to U.S. State Department data, 81.9 percent of all Cuban applications were denied in fiscal year 2016.

Elsewhere, the highest rates of refusal were recorded in countries across Africa with Mauritania and Liberia in particular having refusal rates in excess of 70 percent. Afghanistan was second only to Cuba in terms of application denials with its refusal rate 73.8 percent. 38 countries are part of a visa waiver program and even though their citizens don't have to run the gauntlet of applying for a visa, they still have to provide the U.S. government with substantial personal information before they are admitted.

*Click below to enlarge (charted by Statista)