Comedian Ahsaan Qureshi Slams Sunil Grover, Asks Him To Stop 'This Nautanki' & 'Grow A Spine'
Comedian Ahsaan Qureshi Slams Sunil Grover, Asks Him To Stop 'This Nautanki' & 'Grow A Spine'
Comedian Ahsaan Qureshi Slams Sunil Grover, Asks Him To Stop 'This Nautanki' & 'Grow A Spine' At Kapil's show... pic.twitter.com/aBhRyST1pm

Kapil Sharma and Sunil Grover brawl is taking new twists and turns every day. After Sunil Grover, Chandan Prabhakar and Ali Asgar boycotted the show, Kapil is reportedly facing a tough time to keep the show running. Meanwhile, comedians Ahsaan Qureshi, Sunil Pal and Raju Srivastav have been roped in, and they have also shot for one of the forthcoming episodes.

All the comedians remain divided on the fiasco with some including Krushna Abhishek and Kiku Sharda taking Kapil’s side and others including Chandan Prabhakar and Ali Asgar taking Sunil’s side.

Now, the new member to join The Kapil Sharma Show, Ahsaan Qureshi, has not only taken Kapil’s side but has also lashed out at Sunil Grover calling him a “Nautanki.”

“If you don’t have the guts to speak because you think he won’t take you again, then that means he is your God. Then leave this nautanki. You are just keeping quiet, he will cajole you and you will be back on the show. Grow a spine. Being a comedian is different but being human is also important,” Qureshi said in an interview with Indian Express.

dainikbhaskar.com

Furthermore, he called him “selfish” for having returned to the show earlier, when his own show Mad In India had flopped on another channel. He clearly blamed Sunil for all that is happening between Kapil and him.

wittyfeed.com

At the same time, he dissed Kapil for his drinking habits and said that he should not drink as it is not healthy, and also stated that Kapil should never insult his team members.

Meanwhile, we all are waiting for Sunil Grover to open up about the issue. It is being said that he is not in town and has not been answering Kapil’s calls too.

Don't Miss 13.6 K SHARES 25.7 K SHARES 35.9 K SHARES 18.7 K SHARES 46.6 K SHARES