Earth's worst mass extinction was caused by global warming
Earth's worst mass extinction was caused by runaway global warming


Earth's worst mass extinction in history - when around 90 per cent of all life was wiped out - may one day repeat itself, scientists have warned.

The Permian-Triassic catastrophe occurred 250 million years ago when rapidly rising levels of carbon dioxide and methane triggered runaway global warming, according to new research.

Researchers said their findings should act as 'an important lesson for humanity' in how we tackle current climate change.

Scroll down for video

Earth's worst mass extinction of life was caused by runaway global warming and the 'apocalyptic' event could happen again (stock image)

THE END PERMIAN Researchers have long debated what sparked the extinction event and it is thought that meteor showers and mass volcano eruptions played a role in the deadly event. Now researchers have reexamined the trapped gasses in ancient rocks and have found that the extinction event was largely driven by climate change. They said frequent volcanic eruptions led to large amounts of carbon dioxide being released into the air, which could have caused global temperatures to rise to 11°C (52°F). The rise temperature led to the melting of permafrost that had locked in vast amounts of methane. Permafrost melting led to the release of this methane which sparked rapid global warming.

Earth has suffered through five mass extinction events - catastrophes where large swathes of species die out in a short space of time.

But no event was more deadly than the end Permian, which wiped out 96 per cent of sea life and 70 per cent of life on land.

Researchers have long debated what sparked the extinction event and it is thought that meteor showers and mass volcano eruptions played a role in the deadly event.

Now researchers from Brock University in Ontario have reexamined the trapped gasses in ancient rocks and have found that the extinction event was largely driven by climate change.

They said frequent volcanic eruptions led to large amounts of carbon dioxide being released into the air, which could have caused global temperatures to rise to 11°C (52°F).

The rising temperature led to the melting of permafrost that had locked in the vast amounts of methane.

The event wiped out 96 percent of marine species, including trilobites (pictured), and 70 per cent of life on land

Permafrost melting led to the release of this methane which sparked rapid global warming.

'Based on measurements of gases trapped in calcite, the release of methane…is deemed the ultimate source and cause for the dramatic life-changing global warming…observed at the end Permian,' the scientists, led by Dr Uwe Brand said in their research paper, published in Palaeoworld.

'Global warming triggered by the massive release of carbon dioxide may be catastrophic, but the release of methane from hydrate [permafrost] may be apocalyptic.

FIVE GREAT EXTINCTION EVENTS Five times, a vast majority of the world's life has been snuffed out in what have been called mass extinctions. End-Ordovician mass extinction

The first of the traditional big five extinction events, around 540 million years ago, was probably the second most severe. Virtually all life was in the sea at the time and around 85% of these species vanished. Late Devonian mass extinction About 375-359 million years ago, major environmental changes caused a drawn-out extinction event that wiped out major fish groups and stopped new coral reefs forming for 100 million years. End-Permian mass extinction (the Great Dying)

The largest extinction event and the one that affected the Earth’s ecology most profoundly took place 252 million years ago. As much as 97% of species that leave a fossil record disappeared forever. End-Triassic mass extinction

Dinosaurs first appeared in the Early Triassic, but large amphibians and mammal-like reptiles were the dominant land animals. The rapid mass extinction that occurred 201 million years ago changed that. End-Cretaceous mass extinction An asteroid slammed down on Earth 66 million years ago, and is often blamed for ending the reign of the dinosaurs.

'The end Permian holds an important lesson for humanity regarding the issue it faces today with greenhouse gas emissions, global warming, and climate change.'

The researchers added that runaway global warming could have pushed average temperatures up to 29°C (84°F).

'The emission of carbon dioxide from volcanic deposits may have started the world onto the road of mass extinction, but it was the release of methane from shelf sediments and permafrost hydrates that was the ultimate cause for the catastrophic biotic event at the end Permian,' the researchers added.