Relative of Westminster attacker's ex-wife describes how she was 'abused and controlled by psychopath who she finally fled from'
Relative of Westminster attacker's ex-wife describes how she was 'abused and controlled by psychopath who she finally fled from'
ccording to a relative of the Westminster attacker's ex-wife, Khalid Masood was a violent and controlling husband. The knifeman, who killed four people in his rampage in Westminster on Wednesday before being shot by police, allegedly told his ex-wife Farzana Isaq what to do and what to wear. The Mirror reports that Ms Isaq, now 38,  fled their home in fear after a three-month marriage in which he acted like a "psychopath". The relative told the tabloid: “He was very violent towards her, controlling in every aspect of her life – what she wore, where she went, everything. “He was a psychopath and I mean that in the very medical definition of the word. He came from a nice family, had everything, but there was something very wrong with him. “They were living in Crawley [West Sussex] and he was knocking around with a crew of not very nice people. “He was a loner, but the friends he had were basically criminals.” fter one particularly violent confrontation, Ms Isaq ran away from their home to friends in Middlesbrough. "That's how bad it was", the relative continued. Ms Isaq was allegedly "terrified" of the "dangerous man". According to her relative: “She got out with a suitcase, just her clothes. "She went to the other end of the country, she was scared of him.”

According to a relative of the Westminster attacker's ex-wife, Khalid Masood was a violent and controlling husband.

The knifeman, who killed four people in his rampage in Westminster on Wednesday before being shot by police, allegedly told his ex-wife Farzana Isaq what to do and what to wear.

The Mirror reports that Ms Isaq, now 38, fled their home in fear after a three-month marriage in which he acted like a "psychopath".

The relative told the tabloid: “He was very violent towards her, controlling in every aspect of her life – what she wore, where she went, everything.