Tonight During Earth Hour, Here's How You Can Help Save 7,618 Tonnes Of Coal In Just 1 Hour
Today During Earth Hour, Here's How You Can Help Save 7,618 Tonnes Of Coal In Just 1 Hour
Tonight During Earth Hour, Here's How You Can Help Save 7,618 Tonnes Of Coal In Just 1 Hour Tonight, during Earth Hour, the entire world will go dark, in a wave gradually spreading across time zones from East to West; or at least that’s the idea. But do we really save energy when Indians darken their homes for a paltry 60 minutes between 8:30 and 9:30 PM ? Crunch Time According to the Government of India’s 2011 census (pdf) , the country held 1.21 billion people in a total of 306 million occupied households at the time. The UN estimates that India’s current population stands at 1.34 billion people. So if we were to extrapolate a rough figure, India currently  holds approximately 339 million occupied homes. Remember that, it’s going to be important soon. Now, what we intend to do is figure out just how much electricity we can save if the entire country turns off common appliances around the home. We’re not considering your lighting fixtures, or your refrigerator here, just three categories — laptop/computer, television, and smartphone. So, just how much energy do each of these devices draw? A TV consumes 50 Wh, a laptop consumes 70 Wh, and a smartphone charger takes in 7 Wh Considering the range of possible brands, efficiency ratings, and the like, we’re averaging out the power consumption of these devices. The average household television draws approximately 50 Watts (W), so that’s 50 Watt hours (Wh) in the one hour we suggest you turn it off. Similarly, the average laptop charger or computer consumes about 70 Wh, and smartphone chargers average in at 7 Wh. According to the Broadcast Audience Research Council of India , it’s estimated that at least 183 million homes own a television, compared to 2011’s 143 million. In the 2011 census, the number of households in India with a laptop or computer was 29 million, putting our estimated 2017 figure somewhere in the range of 32 million. Similarly, TRAI’s own telecom subscription data from this year points to 1.12 billion SIM card subscribers. Here, we’re going to have to get a little rougher with our smartphone numbers. It’s estimated that every third smartphone in India is one that’s dual SIM-capable. That means, from the total number of subscribers, we can estimate India to have about 788 million active smartphones. Grains of sand make a desert Now that we have our total device numbers, as well as their average power consumption, a final tally is simple. Turning off televisions nationwide for one hour would save us 9150 MWh of energy, while keeping our laptops and computers off saves us 2257 MWh. Smartphones, being as numerous as they are, save us 5522 MWh, if we don’t charge them for one hour. Again, this is more the potential savings, as no one’s device is switched on and plugged in permanently. All of that electricity, from being conscious of our use for one hour, totals up to a whopping 16,929 MWh, or 16.929 GWh of energy saved. So let’s put that into perspective. The efficiency of how much electricity can be produced from coal varies between 400 to 500 kg per 1 Megawatt. Taking a 450 kg average we can deduce that the amount of electricity we save in one hour, equates to about 7,618,050 kg of coal. And all of this from just sacrificing your favourite TV shows and chat apps for 60 minutes.

Tonight, during Earth Hour, the entire world will go dark, in a wave gradually spreading across time zones from East to West; or at least that’s the idea. But do we really save energy when Indians darken their homes for a paltry 60 minutes between 8:30 and 9:30 PM?

Earth Hour 2009 in Bandos, Maldives - Nattu/Flicker

Crunch Time

According to the Government of India’s 2011 census (pdf), the country held 1.21 billion people in a total of 306 million occupied households at the time. The UN estimates that India’s current population stands at 1.34 billion people. So if we were to extrapolate a rough figure, India currently holds approximately 339 million occupied homes. Remember that, it’s going to be important soon.

Now, what we intend to do is figure out just how much electricity we can save if the entire country turns off common appliances around the home. We’re not considering your lighting fixtures, or your refrigerator here, just three categories — laptop/computer, television, and smartphone. So, just how much energy do each of these devices draw?

A TV consumes 50 Wh, a laptop consumes 70 Wh, and a smartphone charger takes in 7 Wh

Considering the range of possible brands, efficiency ratings, and the like, we’re averaging out the power consumption of these devices. The average household television draws approximately 50 Watts (W), so that’s 50 Watt hours (Wh) in the one hour we suggest you turn it off. Similarly, the average laptop charger or computer consumes about 70 Wh, and smartphone chargers average in at 7 Wh.

According to the Broadcast Audience Research Council of India, it’s estimated that at least 183 million homes own a television, compared to 2011’s 143 million. In the 2011 census, the number of households in India with a laptop or computer was 29 million, putting our estimated 2017 figure somewhere in the range of 32 million.

Similarly, TRAI’s own telecom subscription data from this year points to 1.12 billion SIM card subscribers. Here, we’re going to have to get a little rougher with our smartphone numbers. It’s estimated that every third smartphone in India is one that’s dual SIM-capable. That means, from the total number of subscribers, we can estimate India to have about 788 million active smartphones.

Earth Hour 2012 in Bekasi, Indonesia - Adam Sundana/Flickr

Grains of sand make a desert

Now that we have our total device numbers, as well as their average power consumption, a final tally is simple. Turning off televisions nationwide for one hour would save us 9150 MWh of energy, while keeping our laptops and computers off saves us 2257 MWh. Smartphones, being as numerous as they are, save us 5522 MWh, if we don’t charge them for one hour. Again, this is more the potential savings, as no one’s device is switched on and plugged in permanently.

All of that electricity, from being conscious of our use for one hour, totals up to a whopping 16,929 MWh, or 16.929 GWh of energy saved. So let’s put that into perspective. The efficiency of how much electricity can be produced from coal varies between 400 to 500 kg per 1 Megawatt. Taking a 450 kg average we can deduce that the amount of electricity we save in one hour, equates to about 7,618,050 kg of coal. And all of this from just sacrificing your favourite TV shows and chat apps for 60 minutes.

Don't Miss 24.6 K SHARES 6 K SHARES 5.1 K SHARES

Is Earth Hour A Sham?

Of course, it’s important to note that Earth Hour does not claim to reduce our coal dependency in any way. The act is merely symbolic, as it doesn’t stop power stations from pumping more energy into their respective grids. Indeed, if they did, the loss of energy from having to re-fire up the coals when they restart would likely balance out any temporary production halt.

But the point of Earth Hour is to encourage individuals and businesses to consider their own carbon footprint, as well as discuss the effects and consequences of our current power needs on the environment.