Newborn baby, toddler found stabbed to death in N. Carolina
Newborn baby, toddler found stabbed to death in N. Carolina
Shares                A North Carolina sheriff says a newborn and the baby's 2-year-old sister have been found stabbed to death. Hoke County Sheriff Hubert Peterkin tells WRAL (http://bit.ly/2n1S80h) the bodies of 4-day-old Genesis Freeman and 2-year-old Serenity Freeman were found Saturday near an intersection close to the city of Raeford. Before they were found, their 30-year-old father Tillman Freeman was arrested and charged with two counts of child abuse and child endangerment. Authorities said the father refused to cooperate with the investigation into the children's whereabouts. They have not said who they think killed the children, who were reported missing following a domestic dispute. Freeman's wife was in a local hospital when the children disappeared. Details about the domestic dispute were not immediately released. It's not clear whether Freeman has an attorney. Shares                  Newborn baby, toddler found stabbed to death in N. Carolina   Trump calls Democrats 'losers' after GOP health bill failure   US reviewing airstrikes in Iraq and Syria that may have killed 100s of civilians   Inspector general to review pullback of HealthCare.gov ads   Plan to dig up President Polk's body again stirs trouble   Investor flips Trump childhood home for 50 percent profit   Ex-Penn State president convicted over child-sex scandal   Harrison Ford says he was distracted when he flew over plane   State Department issues presidential permit for Keystone pipeline   Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   4-year-old honored after 911 call saves mom's life   WWII veteran surprised on 100th birthday   Tennessee school bus driver pleads not guilty in deaths   Rachel Dolezal struggles after racial identity scandal   Vehicle attacks: easy success for ISIS, challenge for police   London attacker was in Saudi Arabia 3 times, says embassy   Politician who aided fallen London cop greets police officer outside Parliament   Police release photo of London terror attack suspect   Chris Pratt responds to body shamers telling him he's too thin   Prince George to attend London school in September   Sacramento man arrested in killing of 2 adults, 2 juveniles   NY officer's body camera reveals horrific murder-for-hire crime scene   Kurt Russell shares details about his character Ego in 'Guardians Vol. 2'   'The Godfather' turns 45: 10 things you may not know about the film   Holly Robinson Peete shares how Charles Kinsey's shooting affected her family

A North Carolina sheriff says a newborn and the baby's 2-year-old sister have been found stabbed to death.

Hoke County Sheriff Hubert Peterkin tells WRAL (http://bit.ly/2n1S80h) the bodies of 4-day-old Genesis Freeman and 2-year-old Serenity Freeman were found Saturday near an intersection close to the city of Raeford.

Before they were found, their 30-year-old father Tillman Freeman was arrested and charged with two counts of child abuse and child endangerment. Authorities said the father refused to cooperate with the investigation into the children's whereabouts.

They have not said who they think killed the children, who were reported missing following a domestic dispute. Freeman's wife was in a local hospital when the children disappeared.

Details about the domestic dispute were not immediately released. It's not clear whether Freeman has an attorney.