Fearless Florida diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly
Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast
Shares               Talk about a fearless diver. Josh Eccles, a diver with Emerald Charter in Jupiter , Florida, was swimming in the Atlantic Ocean Wednesday when one of the lemon sharks passing by kept bumping into him. "Every time it swam by me, it would bump into me a little more,” Eccles, who is in the water at least six times a week as part of his job with the scuba diving center, told West Palm Beach ABC affiliate WPBF. "They always bump into us but they don't bump into us that frequently."   Eccles suspected something was amiss with the creature, so he took a closer look, which the shark didn't seem to mind. "It would lift up its stomach and I noticed something, so I kind of poked at it a little, the little hook or something," he said. Showing no fear, Eccles decided to alleviate the shark's discomfort and remove the hook, which was about the size of his hand.  Incredible video! Diver pulls hook from shark’s belly https://t.co/CI69neTZii  pic.twitter.com/aQaIgY3jZY  After Eccles removed the hook, the shark swam away, only to return several times. At one point, the shark swam right up to a video camera, which Eccles believes was its way of saying thank you. Said Eccles: "That was a crazy opportunity, experience to be a part of."   Shares                  Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   Trump calls Democrats 'losers' after GOP health bill failure   US reviewing airstrikes in Iraq and Syria that may have killed 100s of civilians   Inspector general to review pullback of HealthCare.gov ads   Plan to dig up President Polk's body again stirs trouble   Investor flips Trump childhood home for 50 percent profit   Ex-Penn State president convicted over child-sex scandal   Harrison Ford says he was distracted when he flew over plane   State Department issues presidential permit for Keystone pipeline   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   4-year-old honored after 911 call saves mom's life   WWII veteran surprised on 100th birthday   Tennessee school bus driver pleads not guilty in deaths   Rachel Dolezal struggles after racial identity scandal   Vehicle attacks: easy success for ISIS, challenge for police   London attacker was in Saudi Arabia 3 times, says embassy   Politician who aided fallen London cop greets police officer outside Parliament   Daughters of mom convicted of hiding them for 2-plus years readjusting well, dad says   North Carolina wife searches for wedding dress husband accidentally donated   Chris Pratt responds to body shamers telling him he's too thin   Prince George to attend London school in September   Sacramento man arrested in killing of 2 adults, 2 juveniles   NY officer's body camera reveals horrific murder-for-hire crime scene   Kurt Russell shares details about his character Ego in 'Guardians Vol. 2'   'The Godfather' turns 45: 10 things you may not know about the film   Holly Robinson Peete shares how Charles Kinsey's shooting affected her family

Talk about a fearless diver.

Josh Eccles, a diver with Emerald Charter in Jupiter, Florida, was swimming in the Atlantic Ocean Wednesday when one of the lemon sharks passing by kept bumping into him.

"Every time it swam by me, it would bump into me a little more,” Eccles, who is in the water at least six times a week as part of his job with the scuba diving center, told West Palm Beach ABC affiliate WPBF. "They always bump into us but they don't bump into us that frequently."

Chris Maddeford

Eccles suspected something was amiss with the creature, so he took a closer look, which the shark didn't seem to mind.

"It would lift up its stomach and I noticed something, so I kind of poked at it a little, the little hook or something," he said.

Showing no fear, Eccles decided to alleviate the shark's discomfort and remove the hook, which was about the size of his hand.

Incredible video! Diver pulls hook from shark’s belly https://t.co/CI69neTZii pic.twitter.com/aQaIgY3jZY — WPBF 25 News (@WPBF25News) March 25, 2017

After Eccles removed the hook, the shark swam away, only to return several times. At one point, the shark swam right up to a video camera, which Eccles believes was its way of saying thank you.

Said Eccles: "That was a crazy opportunity, experience to be a part of."