Donald Trump Tries To Reassure Supporters After Health Care Humiliation
Trump Tries To Reassure Supporters After Health Care Humiliation
In his first tweet addressing the failure of the health care bill, Trump urged supporters not to worry because he believed the Affordable Care Act would eventually collapse. ObamaCare will explode and we will all get together and piece together a great healthcare plan for THE PEOPLE. Do not worry!  "President" @realDonaldTrump : You truly are an evil man. Your job is to help Americans. Not intentionally try to destroy their lives. https://t.co/2M94E1g39b Trump never attempted to work with Democrats in crafting the Republican plan that failed.  Related Coverage  Trump Concedes Defeat On Plan For Obamacare Repeal  ALSO ON HUFFPOST Health Care Reform Efforts Throughout History       Share this slide:       MORE:

A day after the GOP suffered humiliation when its effort to pass a health care bill failed, President Donald Trump sought to reassure Republicans that he would eventually put a plan together.

In his first tweet addressing the failure of the health care bill, Trump urged supporters not to worry because he believed the Affordable Care Act would eventually collapse.

ObamaCare will explode and we will all get together and piece together a great healthcare plan for THE PEOPLE. Do not worry! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 25, 2017

The comments echoed remarks Trump made in the Oval Office Friday shortly after the bill failed, in which he blamed Democrats and said the Affordable Care Act would eventually fail. Republicans have helped create many of the problems with Obamacare.

Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) called Trump an “evil man” for hoping Obamacare would fail.

"President" @realDonaldTrump: You truly are an evil man. Your job is to help Americans. Not intentionally try to destroy their lives. https://t.co/2M94E1g39b — Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) March 25, 2017

Trump never attempted to work with Democrats in crafting the Republican plan that failed.

The failure of the bill marked a significant setback for Republicans, who have voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act several times since it was enacted in 2010. Yet they could not agree in the end on an alternative to replace it.

Addressing reporters after his decision to pull the bill, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) admitted it was “disappointing” for Republicans.

“We’re going to be living with Obamacare for the foreseeable future,” he said. “I don’t know what else to say other than Obamacare is the law of the land.”

More than 20 million people stood to lose their health insurance if the bill was repealed.