The Health Care Bill Has Failed. Let the Finger Pointing Begin.
The Health Care Bill Has Failed. Let the Finger Pointing Begin.
President Trump Privately blames publicly blames Paul D. Ryan Democrats Other legislative priorities Conservative News Media House Freedom Caucus Inexperience Moderate Republicans President Trump Privately blames publicly blames Paul D. Ryan Democrats Other legislative priorities House Freedom Caucus Inexperience Moderate Republicans The blame game is a time-honored Washington tradition. Here’s a look at who’s blaming whom for the failure of the House bill, in public and in private. President Trump Privately blames publicly blames Paul D. Ryan President Trump Democrats Other legislative priorities House Freedom Caucus Inexperience Publicly, Mr. Trump immediately blamed Democrats for the bill’s failure — even though Republicans control both the House and the Senate. He also said he was “disappointed” and “surprised” that he had not been able to get more members of the hard-line Freedom Caucus to sign on to the plan. And he seemed to acknowledge his lack of Washington experience: “We learned a lot about the vote-getting process.” Privately, the president said he regretted going along with Speaker Paul D. Ryan’s plan to pursue health care before a tax overhaul, another of his legislative priorities. publicly blames House Freedom Caucus Paul D. Ryan Privately blames The largest group of holdouts came from the House Freedom Caucus, a group of about 30 of the most conservative House members. They believed the bill did not go far enough, and blamed Mr. Ryan and other Republican leaders for not consulting with them earlier in the process. Political groups backed by the billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch and other powerful conservative networks came out strongly against the bill. Moderate Republicans Moderate Republicans House Freedom Caucus President Trump Several moderate House Republicans came out against the legislation after President Trump agreed to scrap a provision mandating “essential benefits” in an effort to woo members of the Freedom Caucus. “In order to get this bill out of the House,” said Representative Charlie Dent, a moderate Pennsylvania Republican, they “pushed this bill too far to the right.” Conservative News Media Conservative Media Paul D. Ryan Shortly after the bill was pulled, Breitbart, the conservative site once run by Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, posted an “exclusive” article saying that Republicans in Congress and the White House were discussing the replacement of Mr. Ryan as speaker. Conservative commentators also began calling for Mr. Ryan’s ouster. Reporting was contributed by Glenn Thrush, Maggie Haberman and Jennifer Steinhauer Advertisement

The blame game is a time-honored Washington tradition. Here’s a look at who’s blaming whom for the failure of the House bill, in public and in private.

President Trump

Privately blames publicly blames Paul D. Ryan President Trump Democrats Other legislative priorities House Freedom Caucus Inexperience

Publicly, Mr. Trump immediately blamed Democrats for the bill’s failure — even though Republicans control both the House and the Senate.

He also said he was “disappointed” and “surprised” that he had not been able to get more members of the hard-line Freedom Caucus to sign on to the plan. And he seemed to acknowledge his lack of Washington experience: “We learned a lot about the vote-getting process.”

Privately, the president said he regretted going along with Speaker Paul D. Ryan’s plan to pursue health care before a tax overhaul, another of his legislative priorities.

House Freedom Caucus and Paul Ryan

publicly blames House Freedom Caucus Paul D. Ryan Privately blames

The largest group of holdouts came from the House Freedom Caucus, a group of about 30 of the most conservative House members.

They believed the bill did not go far enough, and blamed Mr. Ryan and other Republican leaders for not consulting with them earlier in the process.

Political groups backed by the billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch and other powerful conservative networks came out strongly against the bill.

Moderate Republicans

Moderate Republicans House Freedom Caucus President Trump

Several moderate House Republicans came out against the legislation after President Trump agreed to scrap a provision mandating “essential benefits” in an effort to woo members of the Freedom Caucus.

“In order to get this bill out of the House,” said Representative Charlie Dent, a moderate Pennsylvania Republican, they “pushed this bill too far to the right.”

Conservative News Media

Conservative Media Paul D. Ryan