Watch Gorillaz Debut New 'Humanz' Album in Its Entirety at Secret London Show
Watch Gorillaz Debut New 'Humanz' Album in Its Entirety at Secret London Show
Watch Gorillaz Debut New 'Humanz' Album in Its Entirety at Secret London Show  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Gorillaz 'sÂ won't be out until April 28, but Damon Albarn 's cartoon band debuted the new album's material early in its entirety at a secret London gig on Friday (March 24) night with guests De La Soul , Noel Gallagher Â andÂ Pusha T , among others.Â "We're gonna play our new album in its entirety. We've got pretty much everyone who's on the record here," Albarn announced at the show's start. As for anyone who couldn't make it, he said they would appear at the Gorillaz' Demon Dayz Festival in June. "I'm not going to introduce everyone because I'd spend the whole evening doing that, but just enjoy the record," he said.Â  The Gorillaz ensemble also included Savages ' Jehnny Beth, Jean Michel Jarre , Kelela , Benjamin Clementine and Anthony Hamilton at for the performance at London's Printworks, with portions streamed for the world to watch via the band's Facebook page .Â The secret show marked the Gorillaz's first concert in seven years and kicked off with the Vince Staples -featuring "Ascension." While Staples was not present, he did provide a pre-recorded video performance that was enough to set the tone for the album's 13 other tracks that followed.Â The night dipped into some classic Gorillaz tracks as well, including their debut album hit "Clint Eastwood," which brought out guest Del the Funky Homosapien . The band's sophomore setÂ was also well represented, with De La Soul rejoining the band (after performing "Momentz" earlier)Â for the track "Feel Good Inc" before the concert wrapped with the LP's closing suite "Don't Get Lost in Heaven" and "Demon Days."Â  Printworks is a 5,000-person venue that opened at the beginning of the yearÂ in London's Docklands area. Gorillaz announced the concert on social media Thursday night.Â Watch video of the show here:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Gorillaz perform during the Coachella Valley Music & Art Festival 2010 held at the Empire Polo Club on April 18, 2010 in Indio, Calif.

Gorillaz'sÂ Humanz won't be out until April 28, but Damon Albarn's cartoon band debuted the new album's material early in its entirety at a secret London gig on Friday (March 24) night with guests De La Soul, Noel GallagherÂ andÂ Pusha T, among others.Â

"We're gonna play our new album Humanz in its entirety. We've got pretty much everyone who's on the record here," Albarn announced at the show's start. As for anyone who couldn't make it, he said they would appear at the Gorillaz' Demon Dayz Festival in June.

"I'm not going to introduce everyone because I'd spend the whole evening doing that, but just enjoy the record," he said.Â

The Gorillaz ensemble also included Savages' Jehnny Beth, Jean Michel Jarre, Kelela, Benjamin Clementine and Anthony Hamilton at for the performance at London's Printworks, with portions streamed for the world to watch via the band's Facebook page.Â

The secret show marked the Gorillaz's first concert in seven years and kicked off with the Vince Staples-featuring "Ascension." While Staples was not present, he did provide a pre-recorded video performance that was enough to set the tone for the album's 13 other tracks that followed.Â

The night dipped into some classic Gorillaz tracks as well, including their debut album hit "Clint Eastwood," which brought out guest Del the Funky Homosapien. The band's sophomore setÂ Demon Days was also well represented, with De La Soul rejoining the band (after performing "Momentz" earlier)Â for the track "Feel Good Inc" before the concert wrapped with the LP's closing suite "Don't Get Lost in Heaven" and "Demon Days."Â

Printworks is a 5,000-person venue that opened at the beginning of the yearÂ in London's Docklands area. Gorillaz announced the concert on social media Thursday night.Â

Watch video of the show here: