Sampha and Run the Jewels: this week’s best UK rock and pop gigs

Sampha’s debut Process was a study in musical intimacy: over stark piano, it could often feel as if the 28-year-old was whispering his bruised vocals directly into your ear. Yet for all his introversion, don’t expect a shrinking violet; recent shows have proved there’s a sturdiness to his soulful voice. Fresh from branding the NME a “bunch of sly, foul paigons” on Twitter, the south London MC will have a chance to showcase his lyrical wit in a more fitting setting – a full UK tour that kicks off this week. Debut album Gang Signs & Prayer was a long time coming but already looks set to claim a place on most people’s end-of-year lists. Hoop is not your typical singer-songwriter: her music is restless and inventive, constantly throwing you off from the course you thought you were on. She is also careful not to over-egg things, maintaining a sparse, finger-picked style that could give Sampha a run for his money in the intimacy stakes. If Killer Mike had got his way, we’d all be looking at a President Sanders now – good for the state of the world, no doubt, but perhaps not quite as beneficial for firing up an incendiary Run the Jewels show. Not that the duo do hectoring, preferring to concentrate on bringing the party. Warpaint’s records stand out for their emphasis on bass-driven experimentation; the LA group’s live shows were characterised by euphoria-laden grooves. But songs from last year’s Heads Up show the band getting on board with more accessible pop melodies, too, which should make this UK pitstop even more interesting.  Culture   Five of the best… new gigs   Rap

Sampha

Sampha’s debut Process was a study in musical intimacy: over stark piano, it could often feel as if the 28-year-old was whispering his bruised vocals directly into your ear. Yet for all his introversion, don’t expect a shrinking violet; recent shows have proved there’s a sturdiness to his soulful voice.

Birmingham, 26 March; Bristol, 28 March; London, 29 & 30 March

Stormzy

Fresh from branding the NME a “bunch of sly, foul paigons” on Twitter, the south London MC will have a chance to showcase his lyrical wit in a more fitting setting – a full UK tour that kicks off this week. Debut album Gang Signs & Prayer was a long time coming but already looks set to claim a place on most people’s end-of-year lists.

Dublin, Wed; 29 March; Belfast, 31 March; touring to 4 May

Jesca Hoop

Hoop is not your typical singer-songwriter: her music is restless and inventive, constantly throwing you off from the course you thought you were on. She is also careful not to over-egg things, maintaining a sparse, finger-picked style that could give Sampha a run for his money in the intimacy stakes.

Glasgow, 26 March; Leeds, 28 March; London, 29 March; Bristol, 30 March; Leicester, 31 March; touring to 6 April

Run the Jewels

If Killer Mike had got his way, we’d all be looking at a President Sanders now – good for the state of the world, no doubt, but perhaps not quite as beneficial for firing up an incendiary Run the Jewels show. Not that the duo do hectoring, preferring to concentrate on bringing the party.

Belfast, Wed; Dublin, Thu; Manchester, Fri; touring to 1 April

Warpaint

Warpaint’s records stand out for their emphasis on bass-driven experimentation; the LA group’s live shows were characterised by euphoria-laden grooves. But songs from last year’s Heads Up show the band getting on board with more accessible pop melodies, too, which should make this UK pitstop even more interesting.

Dublin, Sun; Oxford, Tue; Brighton, Wed