Shaquille O'Neal Once Tipped $4,000 Because a Restaurant Server Asked
Shaquille O'Neal Once Tipped $4,000 Because a Restaurant Server Asked
Here's some advice for anyone serving Shaquille O'Neal in a restaurant: Ask for a big tip. The Big Aristotle appeared on on Thursday to talk about a statue of his likeness being unveiled outside Staples Center. When discussing his tendency to not carry cash, the topic turned to his tipping habits. He told Jimmy Kimmel he once left a $4,000 gratuity simply because the server asked for that amount: When I’m at restaurants, I like to show people my appreciation. So when they come up to the table, I say, 'The quicker I get my order, the bigger your tip will be.' And then the food will come fast. When we get ready to leave, I’ll ask them, 'What do you want?' And the most someone said was $4,000. And I said, 'OK. No problem.' When Kimmel reacted incredulously, O'Neal said the young lady thanked him for covering two months of her rent. The host then informed the Hall of Fame center he can never eat out again after revealing the scope of his generosity. The conversation later turned to the Los Angeles Lakers, but let's stop on a high note. [ , h/t For The Win's Jessie Karangu ] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Here's some advice for anyone serving Shaquille O'Neal in a restaurant: Ask for a big tip.

The Big Aristotle appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live on Thursday to talk about a statue of his likeness being unveiled outside Staples Center. When discussing his tendency to not carry cash, the topic turned to his tipping habits.

He told Jimmy Kimmel he once left a $4,000 gratuity simply because the server asked for that amount:

When I’m at restaurants, I like to show people my appreciation. So when they come up to the table, I say, 'The quicker I get my order, the bigger your tip will be.' And then the food will come fast. When we get ready to leave, I’ll ask them, 'What do you want?' And the most someone said was $4,000. And I said, 'OK. No problem.'

When Kimmel reacted incredulously, O'Neal said the young lady thanked him for covering two months of her rent. The host then informed the Hall of Fame center he can never eat out again after revealing the scope of his generosity.

The conversation later turned to the Los Angeles Lakers, but let's stop on a high note.

[Jimmy Kimmel Live, h/t For The Win's Jessie Karangu]