MMA Fighter Attempts Spinning Kick and Fails in the Most Hilarious Way Possible
MMA Fighter Attempts Spinning Kick and Fails in the Most Hilarious Way Possible
Watch out, Barboza #LFA7 https://t.co/wDUZxW7XiO Like all sports, MMA at the highest level is a thing of beauty. Take, for example, when the amazing Edson Barboza landed this wheel kick . Once you get past the UFC and Bellator though, things can get hit or miss. And then, well, there's what went down at LFA 7 on Friday night in Houston's Arena Theatre. Clovis Hancock clearly saw something the rest of us didn't. Obviously, it went better in his head. His opponent, Nikolay Veretennikov, calmly waited for Clovis to dust himself off and try again. Eventually, Nikolay had the last laugh. Clovis Hancock VS Nikolay Veretennikov  #LFA7 WOW! https://t.co/7ZdypLgGLj About halfway through the third and final round, he dropped Clovis with a pinpoint head kick. While Nikolay won the fight by knockout, we all know who the real winner was: the fans! [h/t: MMA's preeminent GIF-makers Caposa and Zombie Prophet] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Brian Oswald Featured Columnist II

Like all sports, MMA at the highest level is a thing of beauty.

Take, for example, when the amazing Edson Barboza landed this wheel kick.

Once you get past the UFC and Bellator though, things can get hit or miss. And then, well, there's what went down at LFA 7 on Friday night in Houston's Arena Theatre.

Clovis Hancock clearly saw something the rest of us didn't. Obviously, it went better in his head. His opponent, Nikolay Veretennikov, calmly waited for Clovis to dust himself off and try again.

Eventually, Nikolay had the last laugh.





About halfway through the third and final round, he dropped Clovis with a pinpoint head kick. While Nikolay won the fight by knockout, we all know who the real winner was: the fans!





[h/t: MMA's preeminent GIF-makers Caposa and Zombie Prophet]































