Fearless Florida diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly
Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast
Shares               Talk about a fearless diver. Josh Eccles, a diver with Emerald Charter in Jupiter , Florida, was swimming in the Atlantic Ocean on Wednesday when one of the lemon sharks passing by kept bumping into him. "Every time it swam by me, it would bump into me a little more,” Eccles, who is in the water at least six times a week as part of his job with the scuba diving center, told ABC affiliate WPBF in West Palm Beach. "They always bump into us but they don't bump into us that frequently."   Eccles suspected something was amiss with the creature, so he took a closer look, which the shark didn't seem to mind. "It would lift up its stomach and I noticed something, so I kind of poked at it a little, the little hook or something," he said. Showing no fear, Eccles decided to alleviate the shark's discomfort and remove the hook, which was about the size of his hand.  Incredible video! Diver pulls hook from shark’s belly https://t.co/CI69neTZii  pic.twitter.com/aQaIgY3jZY  After Eccles removed the hook, the shark swam away, only to return several times. At one point, the shark swam right up to a video camera, which Eccles believes was its way of saying "thank you." "That was a crazy opportunity, experience to be a part of," Eccles said.   Shares                  Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   ANALYSIS: Defied by Republicans, President Trump crashes into sharp realities   Masked robbers at Las Vegas' Bellagio used sledgehammers, police believe   London attacker was in Saudi Arabia 3 times, says embassy   Vehicle attacks: easy success for ISIS, challenge for police   Tens of thousands in London protest Britain's EU departure   Idaho inmates: Prison violations led to amputations, death   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   4-year-old honored after 911 call saves mom's life   WWII veteran surprised on 100th birthday   Investor flips Trump childhood home for 50 percent profit   Hamas vows revenge at slain militant's funeral in Gaza   Tennessee school bus driver pleads not guilty in deaths   Harrison Ford says he was distracted when he flew over plane   Dog trapped in blaze revived by firefighter's mouth-to-snout resuscitation   Tenn. woman who went to prison for murdering mother claims innocence   North Carolina wife searches for wedding dress husband accidentally donated   Chris Pratt responds to body shamers telling him he's too thin   Prince George to attend London school in September   Rachel Dolezal struggles after racial identity scandal   NY officer's body camera reveals horrific murder-for-hire crime scene   Audra McDonald opens up about having a baby at 46   'The Godfather' turns 45: 10 things you may not know about the film   Holly Robinson Peete shares how Charles Kinsey's shooting affected her family

Talk about a fearless diver.

Josh Eccles, a diver with Emerald Charter in Jupiter, Florida, was swimming in the Atlantic Ocean on Wednesday when one of the lemon sharks passing by kept bumping into him.

"Every time it swam by me, it would bump into me a little more,” Eccles, who is in the water at least six times a week as part of his job with the scuba diving center, told ABC affiliate WPBF in West Palm Beach. "They always bump into us but they don't bump into us that frequently."

Chris Maddeford

Eccles suspected something was amiss with the creature, so he took a closer look, which the shark didn't seem to mind.

"It would lift up its stomach and I noticed something, so I kind of poked at it a little, the little hook or something," he said.

Showing no fear, Eccles decided to alleviate the shark's discomfort and remove the hook, which was about the size of his hand.

Incredible video! Diver pulls hook from shark’s belly https://t.co/CI69neTZii pic.twitter.com/aQaIgY3jZY — WPBF 25 News (@WPBF25News) March 25, 2017

After Eccles removed the hook, the shark swam away, only to return several times. At one point, the shark swam right up to a video camera, which Eccles believes was its way of saying "thank you."

"That was a crazy opportunity, experience to be a part of," Eccles said.