Ryan says Obamacare will 'remain the law of the land' after health bill failure
Ryan: Obamacare will 'remain the law of the land' 
Shares               Just weeks after House Speaker Paul Ryan introduced the GOP bill to repeal and replace Obamacare -- a central campaign promise from Congress and the president -- the Wisconsin Republican pulled the measure from the floor, calling it "fundamentally flawed." "Obamacare is the law of the land... and we're going to be living with Obamacare for the foreseeable future," Ryan conceded a short time after the bill was dropped. For years, Republicans had vowed to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act , known as Obamacare, and now with the presidency and both houses of Congress, they appeared to be in a position to do so. But the American Health Care Act faced stiff and growing opposition from the time that it was introduced on March 6, with the chorus of moderate and conservative members of the GOP coming out against it growing. With health care apparently behind them, Republicans appear poised to pursue other parts of their legislative agenda, including border security, rebuilding the military, controlling the deficit and tax reform. "Now we're going to move on with the rest of our agenda because we have big, ambitious plans to improve people's lives in this country," Ryan said. Sources told ABC that Trump called Ryan at 3 p.m. and told him to pull the bill because they could not get enough "yes" votes to push it through to the Senate after weeks of negotiations. Ryan said he and the Trump administration "came very close, but we did not get that consensus." Ryan said at the press conference that he told Trump they should drop the bill. "He agreed with me," Ryan said. The speaker appeared conflicted about the bill that he and the president touted as the replacement for Obamacare, which Trump said was on track to "explode." "I'm really proud of the bill we produced," Ryan said, but later commented "it is so fundamentally flawed" that he doesn't know if it would be possible to continue to prop up the bill as-is. He remained steadfast in his opposition to the Affordable Care Act, adding "what's probably most troubling is the worst is yet to come with Obamacare." Ryan praised other members of Congress for their input on the bill, but cited "growing pains" as the reason why they "came up short." "Moving from an opposition party to a governing party comes with growing pains and, well, we're feeling those growing pains today," he said. The Speaker added that the President "gave his all in this effort... he's been really fantastic." Repealing and replacing Obamacare has been a signature priority of the Republican Party for the last seven years. "I will not sugarcoat this, this is a disappointing day for us," Ryan said.  Shares                  Ryan: Obamacare will 'remain the law of the land'   Alex Jones apologizes for propagating 'pizzagate' conspiracy theory   Pence: Congress wasn't ready to repeal, replace Obamacare   'Trump troubadour' loses trust in president over health care: 'I feel betrayed'   Sunday on ‘This Week’: Sen. Chuck Schumer, Rep. Mark Meadows, Scott Pruitt, and Roger Stone   What's in the latest version of the GOP health care bill   Fact-checking Trump's 'repeal and replace' Obamacare timeline   ANALYSIS: Trump wades into new territory with health care defeat   Democrats react to collapse of GOP health care bill: 'So much for "The Art of the Deal"'   Trump calls Democrats 'losers' after GOP health bill failure   ANALYSIS: Defied by Republicans, President Trump crashes into sharp realities   How the GOP health care bill failed without a vote   Masked robbers at Las Vegas' Bellagio used sledgehammers, police believe   London attacker was in Saudi Arabia 3 times, says embassy   Vehicle attacks: easy success for ISIS, challenge for police   Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   4-year-old honored after 911 call saves mom's life   WWII veteran surprised on 100th birthday

Just weeks after House Speaker Paul Ryan introduced the GOP bill to repeal and replace Obamacare -- a central campaign promise from Congress and the president -- the Wisconsin Republican pulled the measure from the floor, calling it "fundamentally flawed."

"Obamacare is the law of the land... and we're going to be living with Obamacare for the foreseeable future," Ryan conceded a short time after the bill was dropped.

For years, Republicans had vowed to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, known as Obamacare, and now with the presidency and both houses of Congress, they appeared to be in a position to do so.

But the American Health Care Act faced stiff and growing opposition from the time that it was introduced on March 6, with the chorus of moderate and conservative members of the GOP coming out against it growing.

With health care apparently behind them, Republicans appear poised to pursue other parts of their legislative agenda, including border security, rebuilding the military, controlling the deficit and tax reform.

"Now we're going to move on with the rest of our agenda because we have big, ambitious plans to improve people's lives in this country," Ryan said.

Sources told ABC that Trump called Ryan at 3 p.m. and told him to pull the bill because they could not get enough "yes" votes to push it through to the Senate after weeks of negotiations. Ryan said he and the Trump administration "came very close, but we did not get that consensus."

Ryan said at the press conference that he told Trump they should drop the bill. "He agreed with me," Ryan said.

The speaker appeared conflicted about the bill that he and the president touted as the replacement for Obamacare, which Trump said was on track to "explode."

"I'm really proud of the bill we produced," Ryan said, but later commented "it is so fundamentally flawed" that he doesn't know if it would be possible to continue to prop up the bill as-is.

He remained steadfast in his opposition to the Affordable Care Act, adding "what's probably most troubling is the worst is yet to come with Obamacare."

Ryan praised other members of Congress for their input on the bill, but cited "growing pains" as the reason why they "came up short."

"Moving from an opposition party to a governing party comes with growing pains and, well, we're feeling those growing pains today," he said.

The Speaker added that the President "gave his all in this effort... he's been really fantastic."

Repealing and replacing Obamacare has been a signature priority of the Republican Party for the last seven years.

"I will not sugarcoat this, this is a disappointing day for us," Ryan said.