Kanye West and Kim Kardashian Attend the Funeral for His Cousin’s Infant, Avery
Kanye West and Kim Kardashian Attend the Funeral for His Cousin’s Infant, Avery
Kanye and Kim were photographed in Los Angeles attending the funeral for the rapper’s cousin’s 1-year-old son. The couple appeared somber as they made their way into the church dressed in all black. Kim Kardashian and Kanye West attend the funeral of his cousin's toddler son https://t.co/0oRHPBcSgL  pic.twitter.com/y2iicRG16H On March 13, Kanye’s maternal cousin Ricky Anderson revealed his 17-month-old son, Avery, had unexpectedly died in his sleep. reports there were no previous signs of illness. Anderson, who works with Kanye at his G.O.O.D. Music label, shared the news on Instagram . “Today was the worst day of my life!,” he captioned a black-and-white photo of Avery. “I lost my lil man and gained an angel! Rest in Paradise!!!! I love you man.” Today was the worst day of my life!! I lost my lil man and gained an angel! Rest in Paradise!!!! I love you man A post shared by Ricky Anderson (@rickygervoussss) on Mar 13, 2017 at 12:56pm PDT The child’s mother, Erica Paige, also shared an emotional Instagram post mourning the loss of her son but also expressing how grateful she was for the time they had together. “This life in so unfair. I love you with everything inside me and it is with incredible, unbearable pain that I will have to try to find the strength to do a single thing without you. I am so grateful for being able to spend almost 17 months with you,” she wrote. “[…]Thank you for all the laughs, cuddles, hugs and kisses, you took care of me in a way no one else could. My heart is forever broken. I love you so much, mommy is with you.” This life in so unfair. I love you with everything inside me and it is with incredible, unbearable pain that I will have to try to find the strength to do a single thing without you. I am so grateful for being able to spend almost 17 months with you. You brought me so much happiness and I'm so proud of how hard you fought. Thank you for all the laughs, cuddles, hugs and kisses, you took care of me in a way no one else could. My heart is forever broken. I love you so much, mommy is with you. A post shared by E (@erica.paige) on Mar 14, 2017 at 8:54am PDT The Kardashian-West family has faced several hardships and tragedies within the last year. In October, Kim experienced a traumatizing robbery in Paris , in which she was reportedly tied up and held at gunpoint. Shortly after the incident, Kanye was hospitalized after suffering, what sources call, a mental breakdown .

Kanye and Kim were photographed in Los Angeles attending the funeral for the rapper’s cousin’s 1-year-old son. The couple appeared somber as they made their way into the church dressed in all black.

Kim Kardashian and Kanye West attend the funeral of his cousin's toddler son https://t.co/0oRHPBcSgL pic.twitter.com/y2iicRG16H — #RCG (@RockcityGist) March 25, 2017

On March 13, Kanye’s maternal cousin Ricky Anderson revealed his 17-month-old son, Avery, had unexpectedly died in his sleep. Us Weekly reports there were no previous signs of illness. Anderson, who works with Kanye at his G.O.O.D. Music label, shared the news on Instagram.

“Today was the worst day of my life!,” he captioned a black-and-white photo of Avery. “I lost my lil man and gained an angel! Rest in Paradise!!!! I love you man.”

Today was the worst day of my life!! I lost my lil man and gained an angel! Rest in Paradise!!!! I love you man A post shared by Ricky Anderson (@rickygervoussss) on Mar 13, 2017 at 12:56pm PDT

The child’s mother, Erica Paige, also shared an emotional Instagram post mourning the loss of her son but also expressing how grateful she was for the time they had together.

“This life in so unfair. I love you with everything inside me and it is with incredible, unbearable pain that I will have to try to find the strength to do a single thing without you. I am so grateful for being able to spend almost 17 months with you,” she wrote. “[…]Thank you for all the laughs, cuddles, hugs and kisses, you took care of me in a way no one else could. My heart is forever broken. I love you so much, mommy is with you.”

The Kardashian-West family has faced several hardships and tragedies within the last year. In October, Kim experienced a traumatizing robbery in Paris, in which she was reportedly tied up and held at gunpoint. Shortly after the incident, Kanye was hospitalized after suffering, what sources call, a mental breakdown.