Ahsaan Qureshi Slams Sunil Grover, Twinkle Takes A Dig At Yogi Adityanath & More From Ent
Ahsaan Qureshi Slams Sunil Grover, Twinkle Takes A Dig At Yogi Adityanath & More From Ent
Ahsaan Qureshi Slams Sunil Grover, Twinkle Takes A Dig At Yogi Adityanath & More From Ent 1. Comedian Ahsaan Qureshi Slams Sunil Grover , Asks Him To Stop 'This Nautanki' & 'Grow A Spine' “If you don’t have the guts to speak because you think he won’t take you again, then that means he is your God. Then leave this nautanki. You are just keeping quiet, he will cajole you and you will be back on the show. Grow a spine. Being a comedian is different but being human is also important,” Qureshi said in an interview with Indian Express. 2. Twinkle Khanna Takes A Dig At UP CM Yogi Adityanath, Suggests That He Perform A Yoga Asana To Release Gas ! At the India Today Woman Summit recently, Twinkle was about  her views on UP CM Yogi Adityanath, while being quoted that he “doesn’t have an amazing track record for his statements on women.” 3. Shirish Kunder Apologises After FIR Is Lodged Against Him For Mocking UP CM Yogi Adityanath A police complaint has been lodged against the Tees Maar Khan director at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow under Section 66 of Information Technology Act, 2008. Meanwhile, the Joker filmmaker has tweeted an apology for the same. 4. Swara Bhaskar's Open Letter On Sexism Is A Must-Read For Everyone "In the space of my work, you know that contentious thing called the workplace, the ‘professional’ context… when in my workplace, men in positions to hire me, or give me work… made a pass at me or a proposition or just grabbed me and began to try and neck me. Instead of being offended I smiled. I was nice! I didn’t say NO! I was apologetic even. I said- “Please! Please! I can’t," she writes. 5. Ranbir Kapoor Looks Totally Mesmerised As Fan Croons 'Channa Mereya' For Him! Ranbir patiently listened to the song and couldn’t stop himself from showering praises thereafter.

1. Comedian Ahsaan Qureshi Slams Sunil Grover, Asks Him To Stop 'This Nautanki' & 'Grow A Spine'

“If you don’t have the guts to speak because you think he won’t take you again, then that means he is your God. Then leave this nautanki. You are just keeping quiet, he will cajole you and you will be back on the show. Grow a spine. Being a comedian is different but being human is also important,” Qureshi said in an interview with Indian Express.

2. Twinkle Khanna Takes A Dig At UP CM Yogi Adityanath, Suggests That He Perform A Yoga Asana To Release Gas!

At the India Today Woman Summit recently, Twinkle was about her views on UP CM Yogi Adityanath, while being quoted that he “doesn’t have an amazing track record for his statements on women.”

3. Shirish Kunder Apologises After FIR Is Lodged Against Him For Mocking UP CM Yogi Adityanath

A police complaint has been lodged against the Tees Maar Khan director at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow under Section 66 of Information Technology Act, 2008. Meanwhile, the Joker filmmaker has tweeted an apology for the same.

4. Swara Bhaskar's Open Letter On Sexism Is A Must-Read For Everyone

BIOGRAPHIA.CO.IN

"In the space of my work, you know that contentious thing called the workplace, the ‘professional’ context… when in my workplace, men in positions to hire me, or give me work… made a pass at me or a proposition or just grabbed me and began to try and neck me. Instead of being offended I smiled. I was nice! I didn’t say NO! I was apologetic even. I said- “Please! Please! I can’t," she writes.

5. Ranbir Kapoor Looks Totally Mesmerised As Fan Croons 'Channa Mereya' For Him!

MENSXP.COM

Ranbir patiently listened to the song and couldn’t stop himself from showering praises thereafter.