29 Of The Most Beautiful TV Quotes Of All Time
29 Of The Most Beautiful TV Quotes Of All Time
We asked members of the BuzzFeed Community to share some of the most beautiful quotes from TV . Here are some of the responses: 1.  “I wish there was a way to know you’re in the good old days before you’ve actually left them.” – Andy Bernard, “And what exactly do you think fairy tales are? They are a reminder that our lives will get better if we just hold on to hope. Your happy ending may not be what you expect, but that is what will make it so special.” – Snow White, 4.  “I don’t want normal, and easy, and simple. I want painful, difficult, devastating, life-changing, extraordinary love. Don’t you want that, too?” – Olivia Pope, “It’s always been you. I tried to fight it and I’ve tried to deny it. And I can’t do it. I can’t. You’re undeniable.” – Seth Cohen, 7.  “People don’t write sonnets about being compatible, or novels about shared life goals and stimulating conversation. The great loves are the crazy ones.” – Blair Waldorf,  “The way I see it, every life is a pile of good things and bad things. The good things don’t always soften the bad things, but vice-versa, the bad things don’t necessarily spoil the good things and make them unimportant.” – The Doctor, 10.  “It’s not that simple. You know what makes a good person good? When a good person does something bad, they own up to it. They try to learn something from it and they move on.” – Ron Swanson, “Strong is fighting. It’s hard and it’s painful and it’s every day. It’s what we have to do, and we can do it together, but if you’re too much of a coward for that, then burn.” – Buffy Summers, 13.  “You can spend the rest of your life being afraid of people rejecting you. You have to start by not rejecting yourself. You don’t deserve it.” – Rae Earl, “Tragedy blows through your life like a tornado, uprooting everything. Creating chaos. You wait for the dust to settle and then you choose. You can live in the wreckage and pretend it’s still the mansion you remember. Or you can crawl from the rubble and slowly rebuild.” – Veronica Mars, 16.  “He’s trying to force you to like normal things. And you shouldn’t like things because people tell you you’re supposed to.” – Jonathan Byers, “Mourn the losses because they are many. But celebrate the victories, because they are few.” – Debbie Novotny, 19.  “You spend your whole life looking for answers because you think the next answer would change something. Maybe make you a little less miserable. And you know that when you run out of questions you don’t just run out of answers. You run out of hope.” – Thirteen, “What I’m saying is that I think, maybe, the best things, the richest things aren’t supposed to come easily, and that sometimes the moments that make the most sense happen when everything else doesn’t and, well, I think you deserve more than popcorn tonight.” – Juliet O’Hara, 22.  “Never forget what you are, the rest of the world will not. Wear it like armour and it can never be used to hurt you.” – Tyrion Lannister, “If you look for the light you will often find it. But if you look for the dark, it is all you will ever see.” – Iroh, 25.  “If I had known the last time I saw you would be the last time, I would have stopped to memorize your face, the way you move, everything about you. If I had known the last time I kissed you would have been the last time… I never would have stopped.” – Mike Hannigan, “I like knowing that I did love you because it makes me think that I might be capable of something else great someday.” – Shoshanna Shapiro, 28.  “And when you find yourself lost in the darkness and despair, remember it’s only in the black of night you see the stars.” – Coach Whitey Durham, Want to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts? Follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter .   18 Pictures That Prove Dogs Are Actually Beautiful...    Here's What The Cast Of "The History Boys"...

Your Reaction?

Sorry, but you can only react up to 3 times!

Oops! It looks like you've already used that reaction on this post.