Chris Pratt Handles Body Shamers In The Most Chris Pratt Way
Chris Pratt Handles Body Shamers In The Most Chris Pratt Way
Chris Pratt is currently filming the sequel to “Jurassic World” and he’s been giving his Instagram followers a peek into the life of a movie star on a diet. Of course, Pratt being Pratt, he’s managed to make his calorie counting into a rather entertaining experience for all to watch called “What’s My Snack?” In the first installment posted on March 16, Pratt babbles on about his baobab, banana, cacao and chia smoothie.  #WHATSMYSNACK #JurassicWorld2 A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on  #JurassicWorld2 #WHATSMYSNACK watch me eat cat food like a good little boy A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on Pratt posted three more episodes of “What’s My Snack” on Instagram, where he ate sashimi, broke his diet by eating olive oil pistachio cake a day early, and tried to rectify his embarrassment over how he handled the cake by devouring a more “manly” snack: an apple.  Hot new full length episode of #WHATSMYSNACK A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on  #ChrisPratt here. Little embarrassed by my last episode of #WHATSMYSNACK so I'm posting a more manly version to even it out. #peace #onelove #SnackLife #jurassicworld2 A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on Then on Thursday, Pratt, who previously lost a significant amount of weight for his roles in “Zero Dark Thirty” and “Guardians of the Galaxy” took on some body shamers who claimed the actor looked “skeletal” in his Instagram posts by posting a photo of T. Rex skull along which a rather hilarious caption. “So many people have said I look too thin in my recent episodes of #WHATSMYSNACK Some have gone as far as to say I look ‘skeletal.’ Well, just because I am a male doesn’t mean I’m impervious to your whispers,” he wrote. “Body shaming hurts. So to prove my security in the way I look I’m posting a current selfie of me at what I consider a very healthy weight. 500lbs. Zero percent body fat. Totally JK guys. This is a T Rex skull. Nailed you so bad. Omg.”  So many people have said I look too thin in my recent episodes of #WHATSMYSNACK Some have gone as far as to say I look "skeletal" Well, just because I am a male doesn't mean I'm impervious to your whispers. Body shaming hurts. So to prove my security in the way I look I'm posting a current selfie of me at what I consider a very healthy weight. 500lbs. Zero percent body fat. Totally JK guys. This is a T Rex skull. Nailed you so bad. Omg. A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on ALSO ON HUFFPOST Chris Pratt's  Sexiest Photos       Share this slide:       MORE:

Chris Pratt is currently filming the sequel to “Jurassic World” and he’s been giving his Instagram followers a peek into the life of a movie star on a diet.

Of course, Pratt being Pratt, he’s managed to make his calorie counting into a rather entertaining experience for all to watch called “What’s My Snack?” In the first installment posted on March 16, Pratt babbles on about his baobab, banana, cacao and chia smoothie.

#WHATSMYSNACK #JurassicWorld2 A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on Mar 16, 2017 at 5:50am PDT

#JurassicWorld2 #WHATSMYSNACK watch me eat cat food like a good little boy A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on Mar 16, 2017 at 6:11am PDT

Pratt posted three more episodes of “What’s My Snack” on Instagram, where he ate sashimi, broke his diet by eating olive oil pistachio cake a day early, and tried to rectify his embarrassment over how he handled the cake by devouring a more “manly” snack: an apple.

Hot new full length episode of #WHATSMYSNACK A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on Mar 16, 2017 at 4:11pm PDT

#ChrisPratt here. Little embarrassed by my last episode of #WHATSMYSNACK so I'm posting a more manly version to even it out. #peace #onelove #SnackLife #jurassicworld2 A post shared by chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) on Mar 18, 2017 at 6:26am PDT

Then on Thursday, Pratt, who previously lost a significant amount of weight for his roles in “Zero Dark Thirty” and “Guardians of the Galaxy” took on some body shamers who claimed the actor looked “skeletal” in his Instagram posts by posting a photo of T. Rex skull along which a rather hilarious caption.