Yes, the 'Game of Thrones' showrunners hated HBO's stupid melting ice stunt as much as you did
Yes, the 'Game of Thrones' showrunners hated HBO's stupid melting ice stunt as much as you did
If you care about that which is best in life, or if you're (somehow) out of TV to catch up on or binge, then you're probably anxiously anticipating the new season of like the rest of us. But now one of the show's lead actors, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau (a.k.a. Jaime Lannister) revealed that the people behind the show's ice melting debacle considered the Season 7 date reveal a cringeworthy moment in TV history (of course, the internet agreed ). SEE ALSO: The 'Game of Thrones' cast is freaking out about the show ending, too "I spoke to [showrunners] Dan [Weiss] and David [Benioff] about that and they were like, 'Oh god… That's embarrassing,'" Coster-Waldau told  . "It's like, just walk away… just walk away. It's just a date! You know, I was actually thinking, 'Is there going to be a backlash and people will think, ‘Fuck you guys for that!'" The dreaded ice block. Image:  hbo Were it any other show? That might be exactly how things played out. But let's be real: At this point, people will tolerate almost anything, just to get another dose of that sweet, sweet mainline IV drip of dragons, "sexposition," and brutal deaths of characters we love. (After all, there are only two seasons left , and then all we'll have on TV are zombies, and whatever Netflix decides to surprise us with next.) The new season of hits HBO on July 16, hopefully, with no more excruciatingly lame promotions attached. WATCH: Natalie Dormer reveals what it's like to be killed off on 'Game of Thrones'

If you care about that which is best in life, or if you're (somehow) out of TV to catch up on or binge, then you're probably anxiously anticipating the new season of Game of Thrones like the rest of us.

But now one of the show's lead actors, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau (a.k.a. Jaime Lannister) revealed that the people behind the show's ice melting debacle considered the Season 7 date reveal a cringeworthy moment in TV history (of course, the internet agreed).

"I spoke to [showrunners] Dan [Weiss] and David [Benioff] about that and they were like, 'Oh god… That's embarrassing,'" Coster-Waldau told The Daily Beast.

"It's like, just walk away… just walk away. It's just a date! You know, I was actually thinking, 'Is there going to be a backlash and people will think, ‘Fuck you guys for that!'"

The dreaded ice block. Image: hbo

Were it any other show? That might be exactly how things played out. But let's be real: At this point, people will tolerate almost anything, just to get another dose of that sweet, sweet mainline IV drip of dragons, "sexposition," and brutal deaths of characters we love. (After all, there are only two seasons left, and then all we'll have on TV are zombies, and whatever Netflix decides to surprise us with next.)

The new season of Game of Thrones hits HBO on July 16, hopefully, with no more excruciatingly lame promotions attached.