Army vet awarded Bronze Star for bravery in Vietnam battle
Army vet awarded Bronze Star for bravery in Vietnam battle
Shares                An Army veteran was awarded the Bronze Star this week for his heroism in a Vietnam War battle that left more than 50 fellow U.S. soldiers dead and close to 200 injured. Retired Sgt. Joseph Engles was presented with the military distinction on Monday during a ceremony in his hometown of Murrieta, in Southern California , for gallantry in the face of the enemy during the Battle of Suoi Tre in March 1967. Former Army Maj. Gen. Juilian Burns, who presented the award, said Engles was seriously wounded on the battlefield but continued to man his gun and return fire at the enemy. Burns said that when military officials spoke to those who witnessed the battle, "we came to realize Joe was more than just a gunner." Engles was seriously wounded during the battle, but he continued to man his gun and return fire, Burns said in a statement. "As the battle commenced with intense rocket and grenade and sniper fire, he (Engles) manned the gun and commanded his team to return fire," the statement said. "When a rocket landed close, without regard for his personal safety he neutralized the enemy ordnance and continued the mission." After battlefield medics removed shrapnel from Engles' arm, he immediately returned to his gun to continue fighting, Burns said. Shares                  Army vet awarded Bronze Star for bravery in Vietnam battle   Family of teen allegedly kidnapped: 'Elizabeth must be found'   Suspect in custody after fatal Las Vegas bus shooting   Masked robbers at Las Vegas' Bellagio used sledgehammers, police believe   Arrests after scuffle breaks out at California Trump rally   London attacker was in Saudi Arabia 3 times, says embassy   Tens of thousands in London protest Britain's EU departure   Idaho inmates: Prison violations led to amputations, death   Student hailed a hero after performing Heimlich maneuver on classmate   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   4-year-old honored after 911 call saves mom's life   WWII veteran surprised on 100th birthday   Investor flips Trump childhood home for 50 percent profit   Hamas vows revenge at slain militant's funeral in Gaza   Tennessee school bus driver pleads not guilty in deaths   Harrison Ford says he was distracted when he flew over plane   Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   Dog trapped in blaze revived by firefighter's mouth-to-snout resuscitation   Tenn. woman who went to prison for murdering mother claims innocence   North Carolina wife searches for wedding dress husband accidentally donated   Chris Pratt responds to body shamers telling him he's too thin   Prince George to attend London school in September   Rachel Dolezal struggles after racial identity scandal   NY officer's body camera reveals horrific murder-for-hire crime scene   Audra McDonald opens up about having a baby at 46   'The Godfather' turns 45: 10 things you may not know about the film   Holly Robinson Peete shares how Charles Kinsey's shooting affected her family

An Army veteran was awarded the Bronze Star this week for his heroism in a Vietnam War battle that left more than 50 fellow U.S. soldiers dead and close to 200 injured.

Retired Sgt. Joseph Engles was presented with the military distinction on Monday during a ceremony in his hometown of Murrieta, in Southern California, for gallantry in the face of the enemy during the Battle of Suoi Tre in March 1967.

Former Army Maj. Gen. Juilian Burns, who presented the award, said Engles was seriously wounded on the battlefield but continued to man his gun and return fire at the enemy. Burns said that when military officials spoke to those who witnessed the battle, "we came to realize Joe was more than just a gunner."

Engles was seriously wounded during the battle, but he continued to man his gun and return fire, Burns said in a statement.

"As the battle commenced with intense rocket and grenade and sniper fire, he (Engles) manned the gun and commanded his team to return fire," the statement said. "When a rocket landed close, without regard for his personal safety he neutralized the enemy ordnance and continued the mission."

After battlefield medics removed shrapnel from Engles' arm, he immediately returned to his gun to continue fighting, Burns said.