Dance Academy writer Samantha Strauss says creating children's TV isn't all fun and games



Dance Academy writer Samantha Strauss says creating children's TV isn't all fun and games

Posted

When screenwriter Samantha Strauss was a teenager her life revolved around one dream — becoming a professional ballet dancer.

"When I was 18, I was doing 50 hours of dance training a week," she said.

"Then I broke some bones in my back and had to totally recalibrate who I wanted to be."

The injury ended Strauss' ballet dream but also led to a new one, as she used her time in recovery to start writing for the first time.

Her experience ended up inspiring her to co-create the ABC TV series Dance Academy, a Logie-winning and Emmy-nominated show which ran for three seasons up until 2013.

Filmed in Sydney, the series focused on the lives of a group of teenagers studying to become professional dancers at the fictional National Academy of Dance.

Now a film version is picking up 18 months from where the TV show left off, with the central character Tara trying to move on after a catastrophic injury similar to Strauss' own.

"Tara is the wish fulfilment version of me," she said.

"This is her comeback story, so we pick her up when she isn't a dancer anymore but she hasn't given up the dream yet."

Touching on serious issues in kids TV

The film was made possible partly due to the show's success overseas where it is shown in 160 countries, including in the US on streaming service Netflix.

"We get fan mail from the strangest of places, Easter Island and Aruba and South Korea — it's fantastic how kids TV can travel like that," Strauss said.

"We always wanted to have a global reach but we were surprised by how much some of the storylines resonated."

Many of those storylines involved common but sometimes confronting issues such as sexuality, mental health and family break-ups.

"It's really tricky in kids TV, a lot of the things you want to do you can't because of the classification," she said.

"But I think we pushed the envelope as much as we possibly could every time. We hoped that we were never patronising."

Death of character helped kids dealing with grief

The shock death of Sammy — one of the most well-loved characters — in season two had a particularly big impact on the young audience.

"We got hate mail from eight-year-olds for that," she said.

"We were always going to deal with death on the show.

"I think because I cried so much reading books by Melina Marchetta and others, I feel as though death is so important in fiction because it can shape your experience of grief.

"What was lovely was getting feedback from kids afterwards who have experienced death close to them and who said it helped them to explain to their friends how they were feeling."

Strauss said she hoped the film would provide a new chapter for fans, which audience research showed were not all teenagers.

"We actually have a really great audience of women around the age of 39. They always feel a bit conflicted about having a crush on our teenage characters!"

Topics: children, television, dance, australia