Ever Wondered What's The Exact Time You Need To Sleep To Wake Up Refreshed In The Morning? Here's The Answer
Ever Wondered What's The Exact Time You Need To Sleep To Wake Up Refreshed In The Morning?
Ever Wondered What's The Exact Time You Need To Sleep To Wake Up Refreshed In The Morning? Here's The Answer Organisations, such as and so does the most recent world sleep pattern rankings from Fitbit that lauds countries like New Zealand who’s citizens log in an average of almost a seven and half hours of sleep every day! A Recent World Sleep Pattern Ranking Reveals That Indians Are Sleep Deprived! #worldsleepday  https://t.co/O4UTwF8i4A So, for instance, if you wanted to wake up feeling refreshed at 7 am The calculator also You sleep in phases of 90 minutes each In a recent interview with the Telegraph UK, author and sleep expert Dr Laura Lefkowitz explains, that the brain has a pattern of sleep.

Ever feel tired in the morning even if you went off to bed extremely early? Turns out that more than the number of hours you slept, completing your sleep cycles determines how you feel in the morning when you wake up.

mexiconuevaera.com

Organisations, such as Mayo Clinic recommends 7-9 hours of sleep and so does the most recent world sleep pattern rankings from Fitbit that lauds countries like New Zealand who’s citizens log in an average of almost a seven and half hours of sleep every day!

A Recent World Sleep Pattern Ranking Reveals That Indians Are Sleep Deprived! #worldsleepday https://t.co/O4UTwF8i4A — HealthMeUp (@healthmeup) March 17, 2017

This sleep calculator put out on the Blinds Company website, web-blinds.com, however, can show you exactly when you need to sleep if you wish to wake up refreshed and it doesn't have much to do with the number of hours you sleep!

web-blinds.com

It is mostly to do with sleep cycles rather than with the number of hours of sleep you get! Apparently, if you wake up between a sleep cycle, you are more likely to wake up tired; even if it were after a long sleep session.

So, for instance, if you wanted to wake up feeling refreshed at 7 am

You need to make sure you hit the sack at 9:46 pm or 11:16 pm. And if you’re having a late night out or just prefer sleeping late, then 12:46 am or 2:16 am will work as well. The calculator also factors in the estimated average of 14 minutes it takes for you to doze off.

beritagar.id

You sleep in phases of 90 minutes each

In a recent interview with the Telegraph UK, author and sleep expert Dr Laura Lefkowitz explains, that the brain has a pattern of sleep. You don't just fall asleep for a specific number of hours on the trot. You go through sleep cycles.

Here are some of the sleep timing estimates put out by the Blinds Company sleep calculator

tamworthherald.co.uk

Don't Miss 11.9 K SHARES 3.7 K SHARES 439 SHARES 387 SHARES 196 SHARES

The calculator takes into account that everyone sleeps in cycles that last for around 90 minutes each. Disrupting this cycle by waking up midway can hinder how you feel when you wake up.

topphalsa.se

Just make sure your alarm doesn’t go off in the middle of your sleep cycle, and you should hopefully wake up feeling refreshed!

careergirldaily.com



