Oxford librarian killed himself after being made redundant
Librarian killed himself after being made redundant by the council


Petrus Willemse hung himself when he was made redundant

A respected librarian killed himself after he was made redundant on his 60th birthday because his library's budget had been slashed by council cuts, a coroner heard.

Petrus Willemse was a former Buddhist monk who worked as a part-time librarian for three years at the Oxford Central Library.

However, when the budget was cut for Oxford's library service, leading to him losing his librarian job, friends and colleagues said the talented musician and concert pianist could not cope with the loss of work which 'meant more to him than could have been imagined.'

Mr Willemse, who was also a volunteer at Oxford Gay Pride in his spare time, had two roles with the library. The 60-year-old worked as a lead assistant in Oxford's music library along with his librarian duties where he went 'above and beyond' to help customers.

In October last year, news was broken to staff about cuts to the library budget which would mean some librarians would lose their jobs, the inquest in Oxford was told.

In 2016 Oxfordshire County Council announced £69 million of spending cuts and libraries was one service set to have its budget reduced.

In November Mr Willemse, along with other staff applied for one the new, reduced number of roles. However on December 9, his 60th birthday, he was told he was unsuccessful and had lost his job.

Jillian Southwell, his superior at the library, said: 'He appeared disappointed but not distressed. He also explained it was his 60th birthday but we were unaware of that.

'He was well liked, had a keen interest in music and was very knowledgable about it. He was the sort of person who would go above and beyond for the customers.'

The Oxfordshire coroner heard on Wednesday it was explained to him he would not lose the part-time librarian role until April and he would still be able to work as a lead assistant but Mr Willemse told staff he would struggle to live with the reduction in salary.

However, the former monk, who had practiced his religion in Burma after leaving his native Zimbabwe, was found dead by one of his housemates on December 12.

Catherine Quinn described the moment she came home to Western Road, Oxford, and discovered her housemate hanged above the stairway.

'Our rooms are opposite each other and when I got in I went straight upstairs to my room, she said.

'When I saw Petrus hanging over the stairs I shouted for the landlord and he came out.

'I did not know him very well as he was very private and quiet, I had not noticed any change in his behaviour as he was very reserved.'

Nicholas Hardie, the landlord, said some of Mr Willemse's colleagues had come looking for him at the house because they were worried about him after his redundancy.

'I heard a knock at my front door and a male and female were stood outside,' he told the inquest.

'The female stated she was from he library and said they were concerned for him. His room was unlocked which was unusual and Petrus was not there. I was worried I would find him dead after what his boss had said.

'He was not in the bathroom and I went downstairs and told his boss and they left.

'I knocked again later and he answered. I spoke to him and told him his boss was at the house earlier looking for him he sad he emailed them.

'There didn't appear to be anything out of place in his room, although his demeanour was slightly different from usual.

The librarian worked at the Oxford Central Library for three years

'At around 5.15pm I then heard Catherine in a shocked voice stating Petrus had hung himself. I went out at this point and I could see Petrus' body hanging.

'At this point I was shocked and was breathing deeply. I touched his hand and it was cold. Then I dialled 999 and told them there was a suicide.

'After speaking to his boss the thought of him committing suicide crossed my mind. He must have been desperate to do what he did.'

In his conclusions, senior coroner for Oxfordshire Darren Salter said: 'There isn't a note that was left but I am satisfied on the evidence the act itself was a final act.

'It does not appear to be a cry for help or anything of that nature. It was a determined attempt to take his own life which he did, I am satisfied he attempted to take his own life.'

The coroner recorded a conclusion of suicide.

After the inquest, friends and colleagues of Mr Willemse paid tribute to him. John Grandy, who worked with him and considered him a good friend said: 'He was the most wonderful man. Everyone who worked with him adored him.

'After he was made redundant the people around him tried to console him but he clearly wasn't able to cope with the loss of his job.

'I think it meant more to him than we could have imagined. He was the most helpful of men and was a kind, gentle man.

'He was a lot of fun and a talented musician and that is how we will remember him.'

One of the Buddhists who had spent time with Mr Willemse, who they knew as Aloka, shared memories of him from his days as a monk.

'I got sad news from a friend in Oxford that former monk Aloka committed suicide,' they said.

'Although I have not had contact with Aloka for many years. I very much appreciated his support when I was a monk. He had a gentle heart whilst suffering greatly.'