Assisted-living worker accused of filming residents having sex
Assisted-living worker accused of filming residents having sex
Alexis Williams is seen in a police booking photo the sheriff’s office in Pinellas County, Florida, provided to CBS Miami.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  A Florida assisted-living facility worker has been charged with recording two residents having sex, then posting the video on Snapchat, CBS Miami reports . Investigators say it happened at the Bristol Court Assisted Living Facility. Alexis Williams allegedly secretly recorded an 81-year-old woman having consensual sex with a 59-year-old man in a private room. A tipster saw the explicit video on Snapchat and alerted Bristol Court staff. “I think it’s deplorable. I wouldn’t want it to be someone from my own family at that assisted-living when that happened,” said Helen King with the Area Agency on Aging. “I hate the fact that she’s already out of jail that quick.” King said what the medical assistant is accused of doing at the facility is the ultimate violation of trust. “You have no choice but to try to trust the people that are charged with your care,” said King. “You want to trust that the people that hire them knew what they were doing and did all the things they should be doing.” The assisted-living facility fired Williams and the Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office has been investigating since August. State records show Bristol Court paid more than $6,000 in fines in 2015 for violations like improperly trained staff and workers not giving residents medications, then lying about it in charts. A complaint prompted an inspection two months ago, which the facility passed.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

MIAMI -- A Florida assisted-living facility worker has been charged with recording two residents having sex, then posting the video on Snapchat, CBS Miami reports.

Investigators say it happened at the Bristol Court Assisted Living Facility.

Alexis Williams allegedly secretly recorded an 81-year-old woman having consensual sex with a 59-year-old man in a private room. A tipster saw the explicit video on Snapchat and alerted Bristol Court staff.

“I think it’s deplorable. I wouldn’t want it to be someone from my own family at that assisted-living when that happened,” said Helen King with the Area Agency on Aging. “I hate the fact that she’s already out of jail that quick.”

King said what the medical assistant is accused of doing at the facility is the ultimate violation of trust.

“You have no choice but to try to trust the people that are charged with your care,” said King. “You want to trust that the people that hire them knew what they were doing and did all the things they should be doing.”

The assisted-living facility fired Williams and the Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office has been investigating since August.

State records show Bristol Court paid more than $6,000 in fines in 2015 for violations like improperly trained staff and workers not giving residents medications, then lying about it in charts. A complaint prompted an inspection two months ago, which the facility passed.