Tesla fatal crash driver was exceeding the speed limit, official report finds
Tesla fatal crash driver was exceeding the speed limit, official report finds
he driver killed when his electric Tesla  ploughed into a lorry in May was using the car’s “autopilot” safety features at the time of the crash, an official report has found. Joshua Brown, 40, a former naval seal turned technology entrepreneur , was also breaking the speed limit driving at 74 mph in a 65 mph zone, according to the National Transportation Safety Board. The death of Mr Brown was the first involving a “self driving car”, a shorthand term for vehicles fitted with an array of safety features designed to prevent crashes when a motorist’s concentration slips. e was using the Tesla’s autopilot system which includes a battery of devices including cameras, radar and sensors to prevent collisions taking place. The NTSB examined the crashed Tesla’s system performance data and found that Mr Bown was using the traffic aware cruise control system, designed to maintain a safe distance between other cars and technology known as “autosteer lane keeping assistance” intended to prevent vehicles from drifting. Mr Brown’s Tesla was also equipped with automatic brakes which were designed to prevent head on collisions. Although drivers are instructed to keep their hands on the steering wheel and maintain control of the car, the crash will raise concerns about the effectiveness of autopilot systems which are being developed by a number of companies including Google and Uber. number of theories have been advanced over why the car  ploughed into the trailer with Elon Musk, Tesla’s chief executive suggesting on Twitter that the car’s radar may have tuned out the trailer believing it was an overhead sign. In June Mr Musk wrote "neither Autopilot nor the driver noticed the white side of the tractor-trailer against a brightly lit sky.” A final report into what caused the crash is no expected to be released for another year.

The driver killed when his electric Tesla ploughed into a lorry in May was using the car’s “autopilot” safety features at the time of the crash, an official report has found.

Joshua Brown, 40, a former naval seal turned technology entrepreneur, was also breaking the speed limit driving at 74 mph in a 65 mph zone, according to the National Transportation Safety Board.

The death of Mr Brown was the first involving a “self driving car”, a shorthand term for vehicles fitted with an array of safety features designed to prevent crashes when a motorist’s concentration slips.