Shiv Sena MP Who Took Train Back Home After Airlines Banned Him, Goes Missing
Shiv Sena MP Who Took Train Back Home After Airlines Banned Him, Goes Missing
Shiv Sena MP Who Took Train Back Home After Airlines Banned Him, Goes Missing Ravindra Gaikwad, Shiv Sena MP, who took a train from Delhi after all major , on Saturday did not get down at the Mumbai Central station here as expected. According to PTI, he is believed to have got down at Vapi station in Gujarat. However, it was not clear whether he headed for Mumbai or Osmanabad, his constituency. Mr Gaikwad, who had on Thursday abused and assaulted a 60-year-old duty manager of the national carrier with slippers over not being able to fly business class despite having boarded an all-economy Pune-New Delhi flight, had not reached his home at Umarga in Osmanabad district till 9 pm on Saturday even as his supporters and media persons gathered there. ALSO READ: Air India and major domestic airlines have barred the 57-year-old MP from flying as he refused to apologise for the incident that triggered nationwide outrage. Gaikwad boarded the August Kranti Express, which left for Mumbai from Hazrat Nizamuddin station at 4.50 pm on Friday. Delhi Police has registered two FIRs, charging him with culpable homicide not amounting to murder. ALSO READ: Meanwhile, said "Party has taken the incident (of AI staffer's assault) seriously. We do not subscribe to such instances." "Gaikwad is expected to meet Uddhav Thackeray," she said.

Ravindra Gaikwad, Shiv Sena MP, who took a train from Delhi after all major airlines in the country put him on their no-fly list for assaulting a senior Air India official, on Saturday did not get down at the Mumbai Central station here as expected.

ANI

According to PTI, he is believed to have got down at Vapi station in Gujarat. However, it was not clear whether he headed for Mumbai or Osmanabad, his constituency.

Mr Gaikwad, who had on Thursday abused and assaulted a 60-year-old duty manager of the national carrier with slippers over not being able to fly business class despite having boarded an all-economy Pune-New Delhi flight, had not reached his home at Umarga in Osmanabad district till 9 pm on Saturday even as his supporters and media persons gathered there.

ALSO READ: Shiv Sena MP Who Was Banned By Airlines After Slapping Air India Staff, Returns Home In A Train

Ravindra Gaikwad/Facebook

Air India and major domestic airlines have barred the 57-year-old MP from flying as he refused to apologise for the incident that triggered nationwide outrage.

Gaikwad boarded the August Kranti Express, which left for Mumbai from Hazrat Nizamuddin station at 4.50 pm on Friday.

Delhi Police has registered two FIRs, charging him with culpable homicide not amounting to murder.

ALSO READ: Shiv Sena MP's Wife Says Her Husband Slapped Air India Official For Disrespecting PM Modi

Meanwhile, Shiv Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande said "Party has taken the incident (of AI staffer's assault) seriously. We do not subscribe to such instances."

"Gaikwad is expected to meet Uddhav Thackeray," she said.

With inputs from PTI

Don't Miss 3.9 K SHARES 35 K SHARES 33 K SHARES 35.7 K SHARES 21.4 K SHARES