UK police still think Westminster attacker acted alone
UK police still think Westminster attacker acted alone
Shares                British police investigating an assault on Parliament that claimed four victims and wounded dozens say they still believe the assailant acted alone. Police said late Saturday there is no information indicating that further attacks are planned. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Neil Basu said it may never be possible to fully determine the motives of attacker Khalid Masood, who was shot dead Wednesday after running over pedestrians with an SUV on London's Westminster Bridge and fatally stabbing a policeman guarding Parliament. "That understanding may have died with him," Basu said as police appealed for people who knew Masood or saw him to contact investigators. "Even if he acted alone in the preparation, we need to establish with absolute clarity why he did these unspeakable acts, to bring reassurance to Londoners." The Islamic State group has claimed Masood was a "soldier" carrying out its wishes for supporters to attack Western countries. One man remains in custody in the case. He has not been charged or named. Nine people arrested after the assault have been released without being charged and one has been freed on bail. A detailed police reconstruction has found the attack lasted 82 seconds before Masood was shot dead just after entering the grounds of Parliament. The family of slain police officer Keith Palmer, meanwhile, released a statement thanking those who tried to save his life. "There was nothing more you could have done. You did your best and we are just grateful he was not alone," the statement said. Masood, a 52-year-old Briton, had convictions for violent crimes and spent time in prison. He also worked in Saudi Arabia teaching English for two years and traveled there again in 2015, apparently on a religious pilgrimage. Shares                  UK police still think Westminster attacker acted alone   Emails between allegedly kidnapped teen and former teacher reveal 'romantic interest,' says DA   White House official: Trump aide leaving post   Suspect in custody after fatal Las Vegas bus shooting   Masked robbers at Las Vegas' Bellagio used sledgehammers, police believe   Arrests after scuffle breaks out at California Trump rally   London attacker was in Saudi Arabia 3 times, says embassy   Tens of thousands in London protest Britain's EU departure   Student hailed a hero after performing Heimlich maneuver on classmate   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   4-year-old honored after 911 call saves mom's life   WWII veteran surprised on 100th birthday   Investor flips Trump childhood home for 50 percent profit   Hamas vows revenge at slain militant's funeral in Gaza   Tennessee school bus driver pleads not guilty in deaths   Harrison Ford says he was distracted when he flew over plane   Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   Dog trapped in blaze revived by firefighter's mouth-to-snout resuscitation   Frenchmen travel across U.S. in honor of Pulse victims   Tenn. woman who went to prison for murdering mother claims innocence   North Carolina wife searches for wedding dress husband accidentally donated   Chris Pratt responds to body shamers telling him he's too thin   Prince George to attend London school in September   Rachel Dolezal struggles after racial identity scandal   NY officer's body camera reveals horrific murder-for-hire crime scene   Antonio Banderas says he's recovered from a heart attack   'The Godfather' turns 45: 10 things you may not know about the film   Holly Robinson Peete shares how Charles Kinsey's shooting affected her family

British police investigating an assault on Parliament that claimed four victims and wounded dozens say they still believe the assailant acted alone.

Police said late Saturday there is no information indicating that further attacks are planned.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Neil Basu said it may never be possible to fully determine the motives of attacker Khalid Masood, who was shot dead Wednesday after running over pedestrians with an SUV on London's Westminster Bridge and fatally stabbing a policeman guarding Parliament.

"That understanding may have died with him," Basu said as police appealed for people who knew Masood or saw him to contact investigators. "Even if he acted alone in the preparation, we need to establish with absolute clarity why he did these unspeakable acts, to bring reassurance to Londoners."

The Islamic State group has claimed Masood was a "soldier" carrying out its wishes for supporters to attack Western countries.

One man remains in custody in the case. He has not been charged or named. Nine people arrested after the assault have been released without being charged and one has been freed on bail.

A detailed police reconstruction has found the attack lasted 82 seconds before Masood was shot dead just after entering the grounds of Parliament.

The family of slain police officer Keith Palmer, meanwhile, released a statement thanking those who tried to save his life.

"There was nothing more you could have done. You did your best and we are just grateful he was not alone," the statement said.

Masood, a 52-year-old Briton, had convictions for violent crimes and spent time in prison. He also worked in Saudi Arabia teaching English for two years and traveled there again in 2015, apparently on a religious pilgrimage.