30 Delicious Things You Never Knew You Could Make With A Crock-Pot
30 Things You Never Knew You Could Make With A Crock Pot
Don't have one? Find one on Amazon! They carry a HUGE array of slow cookers . Choose from brands like Crock-Pot , Hamilton Beach , Cuisinart , Proctor Silex , and more, in a variety of feast-appropriate sizes (from 2-quart cookers for the single chef, to 8-quart pots for family meals, potlucks, or entertaining). For a beginner's guide of slow cooker tips, tricks, and suggestions, click here .                                                                        No stand mixer required! Get the recipe here .                                   For creamy dips, soups, chilis, and stews, try this self-stirring Crock-Pot . Get the recipe here .                                   A slow cooker gives a deep-dish pizza plenty of room to expand into bottomless saucy goodness. Get the recipe here .                                   What's better than corn on the cob with butter? Corn on the cob *cooked* in butter. Get the recipe here .                                   Cook 'em low and slow, trapping all the moisture of the meat in the pot. Get the recipe here .                                   The perfect, no-thought, just-stir-occasionally snack recipe. Get it here .                                   Save the juices in the pot for a half–Philly cheesesteak, half–French dip sandwich experience. Get the recipe here .                                   No pre-cooking (or Chipotle assembly line) required. Get the recipe here .                                   Prep, set aside, and free up precious oven space for all your delicious side dishes. Get the recipe here .                                   Because potatoes are "baked" in foil, there's no cleanup required. Get the recipe here .                                   Try this special casserole Crock-Pot that features lid locks for worry-free transportation of casserole dishes and desserts. Get the recipe here .                                   Don't even pre-cook the noodles! Just layer up and let it sit. Saucy, cheesy, easy peasy. Get the recipe here .                                   A slow cooker is a perfect, worry-free way to simmer homemade broths and stocks for upwards of 24 hours. Get the recipe here .                                   An easy, low-carb breakfast that cooks itself without supervision. Get the recipe here .                                   Just cut the squash in half and stick it in the slow cooker. Get the recipe here .                                   The magic is in simmering with a bit of water and cider vinegar. Get the recipe here .                                   Granola without that one icky ingredient you always eat around. Find the recipe here .                                   Make two quarts of Greek yogurt for about the price of a gallon of milk. Get the recipe here . Tips on how to make extra protein-rich Greek yogurt here .                                   *Heavy breathing.* Making cinnamon rolls with a slow cooker means dough can rise and cook simultaneously, halving prep time. Get the recipe here .                                   *Licks screen.* Brownies cook through dinner and are warm and gooey and ready by dessert time. Get the recipe here .                                   Made of quinoa, almond butter, apples, raisins, and chia. Whisk together, walk away, and four hours later you have a week's worth of on-the-go breakfast and snacks. Get the recipe here .                                   Only five minutes of prep and two hours in the slow cooker. Find the recipe here . Get a culinary torch on Amazon here .                                   Using Reynolds slow-cooker liners means no cake pans to scrub. Get the recipe here .                                   Perfect for toting to holiday parties. Get the recipe here . Check out the full list of slow-cooker cocktails here .                                   You know how some candles smell so good, you wanna eat them? Same thing with slow-cooker pumpkin pecan bread pudding...but wish granted. Get the recipe here .                                   Like a Nuts for Nuts street cart right in your kitchen. Get the recipe here .                                   This recipe has ONE INGREDIENT. Get it here .                                   Making warm summer desserts in a slow cooker means not heating the house up with a hot oven. Get the recipe here .                                   Fool-proof sauce, even heating, and no candy thermometer. Get the recipe here .                                   Name a more iconic duo, I'll wait. Get the recipe here .                                IRL footage of me coming home to a slow cooker meal.

Share On pinterest Share On pinterest

Share On pinterest Share On pinterest

Share On facebook Share On facebook

Don't have one? Find one on Amazon! They carry a HUGE array of slow cookers. Choose from brands like Crock-Pot, Hamilton Beach, Cuisinart, Proctor Silex, and more, in a variety of feast-appropriate sizes (from 2-quart cookers for the single chef, to 8-quart pots for family meals, potlucks, or entertaining).

For a beginner's guide of slow cooker tips, tricks, and suggestions, click here.