Seattle's Headset Offers Big Data Analytics To The Cannabis Industry - 'Just Like Walmart'
Seattle's Headset Offers Big Data Analytics To The Cannabis Industry - 'Just Like Walmart'
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Julie Weed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. / AFP / ANP / Evert Elzinga / Netherlands OUT (Photo credit should read EVERT ELZINGA/AFP/Getty Images) Marijuana sales, illegal in Colorado and Washington State just a few years ago, now total more than $1B per year in each state, translating to hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenues. The detailed information behind those numbers is available using seed-to-sale tracking software, but growers, processors and retailers but can be overwhelming Here comes big data. Headset, a Seattle-based company, aims to take the volumes of sales data – required by state law to be collected -- and transform it into dashboards, infographics and other user-friendly information so canna-businesspeople can make better-informed decisions. The company’s founders, Cy Scott , Brian Wansolich and Scott Vickers had already created, grown and sold a successful website, Leafly, an information portal for marijuana news, sales locations and product information. Selling Leafly to cannabis investor Privateer gave the trio credibility when they approached investors to fund their new venture. “We’ve been in the industry for almost seven years and through Leafly made contacts with all kinds of business people and investors,” said Scott. In a young and burgeoning industry that has more than its fair share of “interesting characters” according to Scott, the trio’s track record of success helped net  $800K in angel investment and $2.5M in a recent round of seed funding. Launched about one year ago, Headset currently offers two data analytics and reporting systems. The first, for recreational retailers and medical dispensaries, is integrated with the three most popular cash register/ point of sale systems, BioTrakTHC, GreenBits and MJ Freeway, tracking and displaying product sales data, inventory levels, time and day of sales, and even which “budtenders” sold which products. Additional integrations are in development with other leading POS providers including LeafLogix, FlowHub and Treez. A typical use for the data collected would be to determine staffing levels, based on the times and days store sales are busiest. Another use would be to compare average sales with those of nearby stores, showing where gains might be made. Vendor management and analysis could be done as well. “Typical store owners may manage 50 different vendors so our information could for example, show which of the those partners brings in the most profits,” said Vickers. The second Headset offering for growers and processors as well as retailers, analysts and press people, amalgamates the retail data into market reports, for example showing the rate in sales growth among different edible products like cookies, brownies, mints, and chocolates. This can help subscribers understand the competitive landscape and sales trends. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Marijuana sales, illegal in Colorado and Washington State just a few years ago, now total more than $1B per year in each state, translating to hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenues. The detailed information behind those numbers is available using seed-to-sale tracking software, but growers, processors and retailers but can be overwhelming

Here comes big data.

Headset, a Seattle-based company, aims to take the volumes of sales data – required by state law to be collected -- and transform it into dashboards, infographics and other user-friendly information so canna-businesspeople can make better-informed decisions.

The company’s founders, Cy Scott , Brian Wansolich and Scott Vickers had already created, grown and sold a successful website, Leafly, an information portal for marijuana news, sales locations and product information. Selling Leafly to cannabis investor Privateer gave the trio credibility when they approached investors to fund their new venture.

“We’ve been in the industry for almost seven years and through Leafly made contacts with all kinds of business people and investors,” said Scott. In a young and burgeoning industry that has more than its fair share of “interesting characters” according to Scott, the trio’s track record of success helped net $800K in angel investment and $2.5M in a recent round of seed funding.

Launched about one year ago, Headset currently offers two data analytics and reporting systems. The first, for recreational retailers and medical dispensaries, is integrated with the three most popular cash register/ point of sale systems, BioTrakTHC, GreenBits and MJ Freeway, tracking and displaying product sales data, inventory levels, time and day of sales, and even which “budtenders” sold which products. Additional integrations are in development with other leading POS providers including LeafLogix, FlowHub and Treez.

A typical use for the data collected would be to determine staffing levels, based on the times and days store sales are busiest. Another use would be to compare average sales with those of nearby stores, showing where gains might be made. Vendor management and analysis could be done as well. “Typical store owners may manage 50 different vendors so our information could for example, show which of the those partners brings in the most profits,” said Vickers.

The second Headset offering for growers and processors as well as retailers, analysts and press people, amalgamates the retail data into market reports, for example showing the rate in sales growth among different edible products like cookies, brownies, mints, and chocolates. This can help subscribers understand the competitive landscape and sales trends.