Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn given 15 months to save his job by major union backer Len McCluskey
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn given 15 months to save his job by major union backer Len McCluskey
he leader of Britain's biggest union and the Labour party’s biggest backer has given Jeremy Corbyn 15 months to save his job. Len McCluskey, the general secretary of Unite, said Mr Corbyn had until June next year - when the local elections in London and other cities are held - to show that that win power again for the Labour party. Previously Mr McCluskey has said that Mr Corbyn had until 2019 to show he has what it takes to become Prime Minister. Asked on BBC Radio Five Live’s Pienaar’s Politics if Mr Corbyn was “the guy to take Labour back into office at the next general election with an overall majority”, Mr McLuskey did not answer directly. But he said: “The reality is that I'm hoping that he's given an opportunity to put the alternative that Labour are building to the British electorate. “And hopefully we'll see if he can break through and the opinion polls begin to change. I would suggest that the next 15 months or so will give us the answer to that.” r McCluskey also denied that he or any of his staff had met with the Momentum pressure group to discuss affiliation or funding. The claims were raised by Labour's deputy leader Tom Watson last week, leading to warnings that Unite was seeking to "take over" the party. Mr McCluskey, who is seeking re-election as general secretary, said Unite's executive was the only body which would decide affiliation to any group. Supporters of Mr McCluskey believe the claims were made to try to influence voting by Unite members, which starts on Monday. r McCluskey said Labour needed "an element of unity" so that its policies can be "fairly listened to" rather than "side shows, gimmicks and stupid stunts". e added that over the next 15 months there will be answers to whether Labour's appeal to the electorate was improving. Jeremy Corbyn was being "slaughtered" by the media and establishment because they do not like his policies for a "better Britain", he said. He added: "Jeremy Corbyn will be involved in debates and discussions on where the party is going - but give him a chance and let us see where that takes us." Mr McCluskey is being challenged for the Unite job by Gerard Coyne, West Midlands regional secretary of the union, and Ian Allinson, a lay member.

The leader of Britain's biggest union and the Labour party’s biggest backer has given Jeremy Corbyn 15 months to save his job.

Len McCluskey, the general secretary of Unite, said Mr Corbyn had until June next year - when the local elections in London and other cities are held - to show that that win power again for the Labour party.

Previously Mr McCluskey has said that Mr Corbyn had until 2019 to show he has what it takes to become Prime Minister.

Asked on BBC Radio Five Live’s Pienaar’s Politics if Mr Corbyn was “the guy to take Labour back into office at the next general election with an overall majority”, Mr McLuskey did not answer directly.

But he said: “The reality is that I'm hoping that he's given an opportunity to put the alternative that Labour are building to the British electorate.

“And hopefully we'll see if he can break through and the opinion polls begin to change. I would suggest that the next 15 months or so will give us the answer to that.”