Man Charged in Theft of John Legend's Bag, $25K Cufflinks at JFK
Man Charged in Theft of John Legend's Bag, $25K Cufflinks at JFK
Man Charged in Theft of John Legend's Bag, $25K Cufflinks at JFK  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Authorities have cuffed a man charged with stealing Grammy winner John Legend 's Louis Vuitton bag containing $25,000 Cartier cufflinks from an airport luggage cart in New York. District Attorney Richard Brown says 63-year-old Agustin Hilario swiped the bag Thursday when it was momentarily left unattended on a luggage cart at Kennedy Airport. Brown says Hilario was identified through surveillance camera footage. He was arrested on charges including grand larceny and possession of stolen property.  Hilario was awaiting arraignment in Queens criminal court Friday. It's not known if he has an attorney who can speak on his behalf. Legend is a singer, songwriter, musician and actor who co-starred in the film . The prosecutor says Legend's possessions, including the $25,000 panther-head cufflinks, were returned to him.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

John Legend at the El Capitan Theatre on March 2, 2017 in Los Angeles.

Authorities have cuffed a man charged with stealing Grammy winner John Legend's Louis Vuitton bag containing $25,000 Cartier cufflinks from an airport luggage cart in New York.

District Attorney Richard Brown says 63-year-old Agustin Hilario swiped the bag Thursday when it was momentarily left unattended on a luggage cart at Kennedy Airport.

Brown says Hilario was identified through surveillance camera footage. He was arrested on charges including grand larceny and possession of stolen property.

Hilario was awaiting arraignment in Queens criminal court Friday. It's not known if he has an attorney who can speak on his behalf.

Legend is a singer, songwriter, musician and actor who co-starred in the film La La Land.

The prosecutor says Legend's possessions, including the $25,000 panther-head cufflinks, were returned to him.