Cleveland Man Makes Awesome Crying Jordan-Themed Uniforms for His League Team
Cleveland Man Makes Awesome Crying Jordan-Themed Uniforms for His League Team
For a solid one-and-a-half year run, Crying Jordan was the only thing as certain as death and taxes. When your favorite team, celebrity, or even a nation took a major L, you could expect the face of Michael Jordan to creep its way into your social media feeds. After reaching a point of over-saturation, Crying Jordan disappeared from the spotlight for a bit. But one man is back to restore the unstoppable meme to its former glory. He even named his softball team after it. Behold the Crying Jordan softball uniforms, a creation of Twitter user Brian Havrilla: Uniforms for a softball team named the Crying Jordan's (via ) pic.twitter.com/ The apostrophe in the logo creates some confusion. Are we supposed to believe Crying Jordan owns this softball team, or is the team's manager just riding the grammatical struggle bus? I would lean toward the latter, but he claims it's the former. The bigger question might be why anyone would choose to label their team with a meme directly tied to failure and agony. Judging by some evidence on his Twitter, Havrilla appears to have a knack for self-deprecating humor: I like to be realistic when naming my brackets: pic.twitter.com/ diss We wish Crying Jordan's Softball the best of luck in their league, and hope they hand out a string of L's to their opponents this spring.

For a solid one-and-a-half year run, Crying Jordan was the only thing as certain as death and taxes. When your favorite team, celebrity, or even a nation took a major L, you could expect the face of Michael Jordan to creep its way into your social media feeds.

After reaching a point of over-saturation, Crying Jordan disappeared from the spotlight for a bit. But one man is back to restore the unstoppable meme to its former glory. He even named his softball team after it.

Behold the Crying Jordan softball uniforms, a creation of Twitter user Brian Havrilla:

Uniforms for a softball team named the Crying Jordan's (via @brianhavrilla) pic.twitter.com/7RsGca9V7F — Darren Rovell ( @darrenrovell ) March 25, 2017

The apostrophe in the logo creates some confusion. Are we supposed to believe Crying Jordan owns this softball team, or is the team's manager just riding the grammatical struggle bus? I would lean toward the latter, but he claims it's the former.

The bigger question might be why anyone would choose to label their team with a meme directly tied to failure and agony. Judging by some evidence on his Twitter, Havrilla appears to have a knack for self-deprecating humor:

I like to be realistic when naming my brackets: pic.twitter.com/nRVhFmDDLt — Brian Havrilla ( @brianhavrilla ) March 16, 2017

It would be quite the plot twist if Harvilla and his pals could turn everyone's favorite post-loss diss into a symbol of success on the diamond. We wish Crying Jordan's Softball the best of luck in their league, and hope they hand out a string of L's to their opponents this spring.