14 Things PM Modi Said In His 'Mann Ki Baat'+5 Must Read Stories
14 Things PM Modi Said In His 'Mann Ki Baat'+5 Must Read Stories
14 Things PM Modi Said In His 'Mann Ki Baat'+5 Must Read Stories Not only Modi remembered Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru’s on their death anniversary which was on 23rd March but he also spoke on a wide range of issues from Bangladesh Independence Day to the freedom struggle, while thanking the nation for cooperating and embracing digital transactions in combating the menace of black money. Read more The United States army has acknowledged that its warplanes had hit Islamic State-occupied West Mosul in which 200 civilians may have reportedly lost their lives. The loss of civilian lives has forced Iraqi security forces to halt their operations against ISIS. Read more The Delhi High Court has ordered a trial on a pilot with a private airline for allegedly forcing unnatural sex on a former air hostess of the carrier, absolving him of the charge of rape. Read more The Indian government has reacted sharply to The New York Times' editorial criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's choice of Yogi Adityanath as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The government has also said that the paper's wisdom to write such a piece was "questionable". Read more

Not only Modi remembered Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru’s on their death anniversary which was on 23rd March but he also spoke on a wide range of issues from Bangladesh Independence Day to the freedom struggle, while thanking the nation for cooperating and embracing digital transactions in combating the menace of black money. Read more

1) US Confirms It Launched Air Strikes That Killed At Least 200 Innocent Civilians In Mosul

The United States army has acknowledged that its warplanes had hit Islamic State-occupied West Mosul in which 200 civilians may have reportedly lost their lives. The loss of civilian lives has forced Iraqi security forces to halt their operations against ISIS. Read more

2) Delhi High Court Puts Pilot On Trial For Sexually Abusing Air Hostess And Threatening To Kill Her

The Delhi High Court has ordered a trial on a pilot with a private airline for allegedly forcing unnatural sex on a former air hostess of the carrier, absolving him of the charge of rape. Read more

3) Indian-Americans Raise $100,000 To Help The Man Who Tried To Save Indian Killed In Kansas





A 24-year-old American, who tried to save an Indian, who was killed in the US recently has been honoured as 'A True American Hero' by the Indian-American community in Houston. Read more

4) Government Slams New York Times' Editorial For Criticising Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath

The Indian government has reacted sharply to The New York Times' editorial criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's choice of Yogi Adityanath as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The government has also said that the paper's wisdom to write such a piece was "questionable". Read more

5) Shashi Tharoor Shared A Petition Seeking An Apology From The British For Atrocities Under Colonial Rule





Tharoor, who is best known for his oratory skills literally schooled a TV host on India's contribution to the British empire. He further went on by saying that India is seeking an apology for what Britain had done to India during the colonial time. Read more