'Power Rangers' fans are hyped about that credits scene—here's why
'Power Rangers' fans are hyped about that credits scene—here's why
Like most geek-friendly blockbusters coming out of Hollywood these days, Lionsgate's reboot sets up the sequel with a "stinger" — a scene inserted into the end credits. That's what I'm here to fill you in on. Needless to say, . SEE ALSO: 7 butt kickin' secrets you probably didn't know about the 'Power Rangers' Midway through the credit roll we're treated to a familiar scene: our beloved heroes, fresh from saving the planet, are back in detention. A teacher calls the roll, but one student doesn't respond: Tommy Oliver. As the teacher continues to call out the name with no response, the camera cuts to an empty desk. Slung over the chair behind it we can clearly see a green jacket. It doesn't take a super-fan to piece together the hint here: Tommy Oliver will one day be the Green Ranger. But what's the lore explanation? Why does everyone in the theater shout with excitement in this recording as soon as they hear Tommy's name mentioned? In the pre-boot days of lore, Tommy Oliver was indeed the Green Ranger. But there was a twist: Mr. Oliver started out as a baddie, in the service of none other than Rita Repulsa — played by Elizabeth Banks in the new movie. In the original stories, Tommy eventually freed himself and went on to become a key member of the Rangers. It's looking like there's a similar plan in place with this rebooted series. There's more proof, as well. Lionsgate lost all semblance of chill Thursday evening when the Twitter feed blasted out a Green Ranger tease on March 23, as the movie was arriving in theaters for early release attendees. Here's the tweet. You can probably do the math on this one without any hints or prodding: pic.twitter.com/JMgzVJFYUH — Power Rangers (@PowerRangers) March 23, 2017 Lionsgate has already confirmed that it sees a lengthy life ahead for this series, with a six-movie story arc planned. It's possible that the new reboot's less-than-stellar box office debut will necessitate some course correction but, for now at least, the Green Ranger clearly factors into whatever plans lie ahead. WATCH: Thrawn throws down

Like most geek-friendly blockbusters coming out of Hollywood these days, Lionsgate's Power Rangers reboot sets up the sequel with a "stinger" — a scene inserted into the end credits.

That's what I'm here to fill you in on. Needless to say, spoilers ahead.

Midway through the credit roll we're treated to a familiar scene: our beloved heroes, fresh from saving the planet, are back in detention. A teacher calls the roll, but one student doesn't respond: Tommy Oliver.

As the teacher continues to call out the name with no response, the camera cuts to an empty desk. Slung over the chair behind it we can clearly see a green jacket. It doesn't take a super-fan to piece together the hint here: Tommy Oliver will one day be the Green Ranger.

But what's the lore explanation? Why does everyone in the theater shout with excitement in this recording as soon as they hear Tommy's name mentioned?

In the pre-boot days of Power Rangers lore, Tommy Oliver was indeed the Green Ranger. But there was a twist: Mr. Oliver started out as a baddie, in the service of none other than Rita Repulsa — played by Elizabeth Banks in the new movie.

In the original stories, Tommy eventually freed himself and went on to become a key member of the Rangers. It's looking like there's a similar plan in place with this rebooted series.

There's more proof, as well. Lionsgate lost all semblance of chill Thursday evening when the Power Rangers Twitter feed blasted out a Green Ranger tease on March 23, just as the movie was arriving in theaters for early release attendees.

Here's the tweet. You can probably do the math on this one without any hints or prodding:

Lionsgate has already confirmed that it sees a lengthy life ahead for this series, with a six-movie story arc planned. It's possible that the new reboot's less-than-stellar box office debut will necessitate some course correction but, for now at least, the Green Ranger clearly factors into whatever plans lie ahead.