Fan Reportedly Dies During Live WWE Event
Fan Reportedly Dies During Live WWE Event
A tragedy emerged from a WWE Raw event in Portland, Maine on Saturday night, with news circulating about a man who reportedly died in the stands, according to . During the second match of the event—a fight between Austin Aries and the WWE Cruiserweight Champion, Neville—a yet-to-be-identified man collapsed out of his seat in the corner of the arena, forcing onsite EMTs to provide immediate medical attention. Reports claim they conducted CPR for at least twenty minutes before removing him on a stretcher to take the man to a local hospital. According to one fan's recounting of the event, the man may have been in attendance to provide care and attention for another person in attendance: So.. ever have one of those nights where someone in the stands dies right next to you at a #  # event? I just did... @whm1971 right next to me. Section H row 16 Seat 14 was him... God rest his soul. Whoever he was. The fan who passed away was an elderly gentlemen who was there caring for a man with down syndrome. I just believe it

A tragedy emerged from a WWE Raw event in Portland, Maine on Saturday night, with news circulating about a man who reportedly died in the stands, according to TMZ.

During the second match of the event—a fight between Austin Aries and the WWE Cruiserweight Champion, Neville—a yet-to-be-identified man collapsed out of his seat in the corner of the arena, forcing onsite EMTs to provide immediate medical attention.

Reports claim they conducted CPR for at least twenty minutes before removing him on a stretcher to take the man to a local hospital. After being taken to Maine Medical Center, the man was reportedly pronounced dead.

According to one fan's recounting of the event, the man may have been in attendance to provide care and attention for another person in attendance:

So.. ever have one of those nights where someone in the stands dies right next to you at a #wwe #wweportland event? I just did... — Chunk📺 (@ChunkTV) March 26, 2017

@whm1971 right next to me. Section H row 16 Seat 14 was him... God rest his soul. Whoever he was. — Chunk📺 (@ChunkTV) March 26, 2017

@JamesJVaccaro The fan who passed away was an elderly gentlemen who was there caring for a man with down syndrome. I just couldnt believe it — Chunk📺 (@ChunkTV) March 26, 2017

This story is developing.