'Beauty' still a box office beast as 'Power Rangers' opens at #2
'Beauty' still a box office beast as 'Power Rangers' opens at #2
Another weekend, another pile of money for Disney. finishes its second weekend at the domestic box office with an estimated $88.3 million. It's another #1 weekend for the live-action remake of Disney's animated classic from 1991. SEE ALSO: Well, what do you know: 'Power Rangers' is surprisingly OK No one expected to come close to its debut, which clocked in at a record-setting $174.8 million. But don't read too deeply into the seemingly large 49 percent audience decline from the first weekend to the second. This is actually at the lower end of average for most Hollywood blockbusters. The story was largely the same overseas. Estimates point to a $119.2 million second weekend, which brings 's box office outside the U.S. to $373.3 million. With a worldwide cumulative box office of $690.3 million, don't be surprised if Disney adds another billion dollar movie to its catalog in the next few weeks. never really had a shot at competing — it serves a narrower audience than the Disney flick — but it emerged from its opening weekend with a domestic estimate of $40.5 million. That's a so-so performance for the $100 million-budgeted movie, which offered moviegoers a counter-programming to Disney's smash hit. Lionsgate is geared up for a long haul in theaters with . Some of the key releases in foreign markets — including France, Italy, and Spain — don't happen until early April. Arguably the biggest overseas release — in Japan, where the series was originally born — is set for July 15. The opening weekend foreign estimate — which accounts for more than 30 non-U.S. markets, including the U.K., Canada, and Hong Kong — is a mere $18.7 million. It's looking like might struggle to reach profitability, which could influence Lionsgate's reported plans for a six-movie arc . rounds out the box office top three with an estimate of $14.4 million. Not a great third weekend, but U.S. ticket sales are just gravy at this point for Warner Bros. has been a big overseas success, with a total foreign take of $258.6 million to date. A few additional quick notes about the weekend box office: Sony's sci-fi/horror newcomer — written by scribes Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick — is off to a rough start, with a domestic estimate of $12.6 million. Foreign markets added another $16.1 million, but with only a handful of overseas openings left it's looking like will struggle to hit its reported $58 million budget in box office earnings. rounds out the top five, adding another $10.1 million (estimated) to its already-impressive box office run. The weekend finish brings the spin-off's domestic total up past $200 million, and the cumulative global box office up to $565.5 million. Once again, — at #6 — is the dark horse contender for strongest performance of the weekend. It's estimated $8.7 million finish might not seem like much, but audiences remain strong after more than a month in theaters. There was just a 35 percent decline in attendance between 's fourth a fifth weekend — a very small number that speaks to continued buzz and word-of-mouth appeal. WATCH: What 'Power Rangers' and 'TMNT' have in common

Another weekend, another pile of money for Disney.

Beauty and the Beast finishes its second weekend at the domestic box office with an estimated $88.3 million. It's another #1 weekend for the live-action remake of Disney's animated classic from 1991.

No one expected Beauty to come close to its debut, which clocked in at a record-setting $174.8 million. But don't read too deeply into the seemingly large 49 percent audience decline from the first weekend to the second. This is actually at the lower end of average for most Hollywood blockbusters.

The story was largely the same overseas. Estimates point to a $119.2 million second weekend, which brings Beauty's box office outside the U.S. to $373.3 million. With a worldwide cumulative box office of $690.3 million, don't be surprised if Disney adds another billion dollar movie to its catalog in the next few weeks.

Power Rangers never really had a shot at competing — it serves a narrower audience than the Disney flick — but it emerged from its opening weekend with a domestic estimate of $40.5 million. That's a so-so performance for the $100 million-budgeted movie, which offered moviegoers a counter-programming to Disney's smash hit.

Lionsgate is geared up for a long haul in theaters with Power Rangers. Some of the key releases in foreign markets — including France, Italy, and Spain — don't happen until early April. Arguably the biggest overseas release — in Japan, where the series was originally born — is set for July 15.

The opening weekend foreign estimate — which accounts for more than 30 non-U.S. markets, including the U.K., Canada, and Hong Kong — is a mere $18.7 million. It's looking like Power Rangers might struggle to reach profitability, which could influence Lionsgate's reported plans for a six-movie arc.

Kong: Skull Island rounds out the box office top three with an estimate of $14.4 million. Not a great third weekend, but U.S. ticket sales are just gravy at this point for Warner Bros. Kong has been a big overseas success, with a total foreign take of $258.6 million to date.

A few additional quick notes about the weekend box office:

Sony's sci-fi/horror newcomer Life — written by Deadpool scribes Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick — is off to a rough start, with a domestic estimate of $12.6 million. Foreign markets added another $16.1 million, but with only a handful of overseas openings left it's looking like Life will struggle to hit its reported $58 million budget in box office earnings.

Logan rounds out the top five, adding another $10.1 million (estimated) to its already-impressive box office run. The weekend finish brings the X-Men spin-off's domestic total up past $200 million, and the cumulative global box office up to $565.5 million.

Once again, Get Out — at #6 — is the dark horse contender for strongest performance of the weekend. It's estimated $8.7 million finish might not seem like much, but audiences remain strong after more than a month in theaters. There was just a 35 percent decline in attendance between Get Out's fourth a fifth weekend — a very small number that speaks to continued buzz and word-of-mouth appeal.

All current box office estimates are provided by comScore and all historical data comes from Box Office Mojo.