Police cite Massachusetts sixth-grader for trespassing
Police cite Massachusetts sixth-grader for trespassing
Shares                Police in Massachusetts served a sixth-grader with no-trespass orders after neighbors grew wary of the girl cutting through their properties to get to and from her school bus stop. The mother of 11-year-old Autumn Blanchard told the Cape Cod Times ( http://bit.ly/2nhUjyE ) her daughter received three pink no-trespass notices from the Harwich Police Department on March 2. Krystal Blanchard said she was unaware neighbors had an issue until the police arrived at her door. She questioned why she wasn't informed by the neighbors or school officials, who also knew about the problem. "I am beyond distressed by this situation," she said. "I can't imagine why it had to go to this level. Someone should have spoken to me." Blanchard said she wonders if the fact her family is new to the area and she and her daughter have brightly colored hair may be causing neighbors to discriminate against them. The mother has pink hair and piercings while her daughter's hair has multiple colors. "That's the only thing I can think of, which I think is ridiculous," said Blanchard, who contends Autumn is a "nice, polite kid." Harwich Police Chief David Guillemette blamed a "breakdown in communication" for the situation. He said police should have met first with the mother to discuss her daughter's trespassing. "I would have preferred it would have been handled with more tact," he said. Autumn said the cut-through shortened her walk to and from the bus stop, adding how she "just wanted to get home and be warm inside my house." But one neighbor said she was previously sued because a girl fell in her yard and became concerned when she saw Autumn climbing over debris from a fallen tree. A police report noted how neighbors asked Autumn to "walk around on the street and she ignores their wishes." The report also referred to a school resource officer and principal talking with Autumn, conversations her mother said she wasn't told about. According to the notices, Autumn could be arrested and fined up to $100, imprisoned up to 30 days or both, if she steps onto the properties listed in the no-trespass orders. Shares                  Police cite Massachusetts sixth-grader for trespassing   Trump shifts blame to conservatives on failure of health care bill   White House official: Trump aide leaving post   Police: 'No apparent reason' for shooting on Vegas Strip bus   With eye toward Trump, Arab leaders to seek consensus   Iran imposes sanctions on 15 US companies   Pence: Congress wasn't ready to repeal, replace Obamacare   Suspect in custody after fatal Las Vegas bus shooting   Arrests after scuffle breaks out at California Trump rally   Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   Student hailed a hero after performing Heimlich maneuver on classmate   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   California slaying victims are mom, 2 kids and another woman   Syrian opposition calls on US to spare civilians in Raqqa   No surprise: Beijing's pick Lam chosen as Hong Kong's leader   London attacker was in Saudi Arabia 3 times, says embassy   Storms to take aim at Plains in turbulent week of weather   Seattle plant failure dumps millions of gallons of sewage   Medical pot bill in S. Carolina bolstered by conservatives   Hamas closes Gaza crossing with Israel after shadowy killing   Frenchmen travel across U.S. in honor of Pulse victims   Trump will end Obama's signature Clean Power Plan this week: EPA chief   Schumer: Trump showed 'basic lack of competence' on health care bill   Rachel Dolezal struggles after racial identity scandal   NY officer's body camera reveals horrific murder-for-hire crime scene   Antonio Banderas says he's recovered from a heart attack   Holly Robinson Peete shares how Charles Kinsey's shooting affected her family

Police in Massachusetts served a sixth-grader with no-trespass orders after neighbors grew wary of the girl cutting through their properties to get to and from her school bus stop.

The mother of 11-year-old Autumn Blanchard told the Cape Cod Times ( http://bit.ly/2nhUjyE ) her daughter received three pink no-trespass notices from the Harwich Police Department on March 2. Krystal Blanchard said she was unaware neighbors had an issue until the police arrived at her door. She questioned why she wasn't informed by the neighbors or school officials, who also knew about the problem.

"I am beyond distressed by this situation," she said. "I can't imagine why it had to go to this level. Someone should have spoken to me."

Blanchard said she wonders if the fact her family is new to the area and she and her daughter have brightly colored hair may be causing neighbors to discriminate against them. The mother has pink hair and piercings while her daughter's hair has multiple colors.

"That's the only thing I can think of, which I think is ridiculous," said Blanchard, who contends Autumn is a "nice, polite kid."

Harwich Police Chief David Guillemette blamed a "breakdown in communication" for the situation. He said police should have met first with the mother to discuss her daughter's trespassing.

"I would have preferred it would have been handled with more tact," he said.

Autumn said the cut-through shortened her walk to and from the bus stop, adding how she "just wanted to get home and be warm inside my house."

But one neighbor said she was previously sued because a girl fell in her yard and became concerned when she saw Autumn climbing over debris from a fallen tree.

A police report noted how neighbors asked Autumn to "walk around on the street and she ignores their wishes." The report also referred to a school resource officer and principal talking with Autumn, conversations her mother said she wasn't told about.

According to the notices, Autumn could be arrested and fined up to $100, imprisoned up to 30 days or both, if she steps onto the properties listed in the no-trespass orders.