United Airlines Faces Backlash After Refusing to Allow Girls to Board Plane in Leggings
United Airlines Faces Backlash After Refusing to Allow Girls to Board Plane in Leggings
United Airlines has found itself in some hot water after Shannon Watts , founder of the anti-gun violence group Moms Demand Action, saw the company's gate agent initially refuse to allow two girls, who were either 10 or 11 years old, from boarding their flight because they were wearing leggings. The employee allegedly wouldn't let them board the aircraft heading United pointed out a rule in their @shannonrwatts In our Contract of Carriage, Rule 21, we do have the right to refuse transport for passengers who ... https://t.co/52kRVgaCyb Needless to say, the idea that a female in leggings is deemed by the company as "not properly clothed" is quite the problematic stance. What makes matters worse is that last year, United Airlines posted a tweet in support of International Yoga Day where the woman in the photo is wearing @united Really? pic.twitter.com/O9RplgrTsv As expected, there has been plenty of backlash, and people are pointing out the absurdity in their stance of disallowing kids in leggings from boarding their flight. I have flown united before with literally no pants on. Just a top as a dress. Next time I will wear only jeans and a scarf. @united Leggings are business attire for 10 year olds. Their business is being children. ATTENTION TRAVELERS here is United Airlines new dress code for women pic.twitter.com/7t1M0pbY6F I understand. I suggest u consider updating ur rules 4 friends & fam as they seem to apply mostly 2 females & are outdated. https://t.co/41chqN32Q0 We here at @united are just trying to police the attire of the daughters of our employees! That's all! Cool, right? https://t.co/xGyL4IAslE

United Airlines has found itself in some hot water after Shannon Watts, founder of the anti-gun violence group Moms Demand Action, saw the company's gate agent initially refuse to allow two girls, who were either 10 or 11 years old, from boarding their flight because they were wearing leggings. The employee allegedly wouldn't let them board the aircraft heading from Denver to Minneapolis until they either changed their clothes, or "put dresses on over leggings."

United pointed out a rule in their Contract of Carriage, which indicates that a passenger can be refused if that person is "not properly clothed."

@shannonrwatts In our Contract of Carriage, Rule 21, we do have the right to refuse transport for passengers who ... https://t.co/52kRVgaCyb — United (@united) March 26, 2017

Needless to say, the idea that a female in leggings is deemed by the company as "not properly clothed" is quite the problematic stance. What makes matters worse is that last year, United Airlines posted a tweet in support of International Yoga Day where the woman in the photo is wearing—you guessed it—yoga pants.

As expected, there has been plenty of backlash, and people are pointing out the absurdity in their stance of disallowing kids in leggings from boarding their flight.

I have flown united before with literally no pants on. Just a top as a dress. Next time I will wear only jeans and a scarf. — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) March 26, 2017

@united Leggings are business attire for 10 year olds. Their business is being children. — Patricia Arquette (@PattyArquette) March 26, 2017

ATTENTION TRAVELERS here is United Airlines new dress code for women pic.twitter.com/7t1M0pbY6F — psedoali (@psedoali) March 26, 2017

I understand. I suggest u consider updating ur rules 4 friends & fam as they seem to apply mostly 2 females & are outdated. https://t.co/41chqN32Q0 — Sarah Silverman (@SarahKSilverman) March 26, 2017