Eight Feared Dead as Avalanche Hits Japan Ski Resort
8 feared dead after avalanche hits ski resort during high school event
At least eight people are feared dead after an avalanche struck a Japanese ski resort on Monday, authorities said. Dozens of high school students and about 12 teachers had been participating in mountain climbing safety training exercise in the Nasu area, which is located about 100 miles north of Tokyo.       Eight people were located without any vital signs, according to Kazuya Nagai, a spokesman for Tochigi Northeast Area Fire Department Operation Center. Japanese officials typically do not declare victims dead until a doctor has made a formal announcement. Two other people suffered serious injuries, and 36 people were being treated for non life-threatening injuries, Nagai said. It was not immediately clear how many of the victims were students. Officials responded to the scene after a teacher called for help at 9:20 a.m. local time (8:20 p.m. ET Sunday). Hours before the incident, the local meteorological agency issued an alert warning that up to 12 inches of snowfall was possible — along with avalanches. The ski resort had been closed for the season since last Monday, according to its website.

At least eight people are feared dead after an avalanche struck a Japanese ski resort on Monday, authorities said.

Dozens of high school students and about 12 teachers had been participating in mountain climbing safety training exercise in the Nasu area, which is located about 100 miles north of Tokyo.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Embed Eight Feared Dead After Avalanche Strikes During Student Training Climb 0:47 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

Eight people were located without any vital signs, according to Kazuya Nagai, a spokesman for Tochigi Northeast Area Fire Department Operation Center.

Japanese officials typically do not declare victims dead until a doctor has made a formal announcement.

Two other people suffered serious injuries, and 36 people were being treated for non life-threatening injuries, Nagai said.

Firefighters carry a survivor they rescued from the site of an avalanche. JIJI PRESS / AFP - Getty Images

It was not immediately clear how many of the victims were students.

Officials responded to the scene after a teacher called for help at 9:20 a.m. local time (8:20 p.m. ET Sunday).

Hours before the incident, the local meteorological agency issued an alert warning that up to 12 inches of snowfall was possible — along with avalanches.

The ski resort had been closed for the season since last Monday, according to its website.