Children feared dead after avalanche hits Japanese resort
School children feared dead after avalanche hits Japanese ski resort


Eight school children are feared dead and another 30 have been injured after an avalanche hit a Japanese ski resort.

The avalanche occurred on Monday morning near a ski slope in Nasu, 100 miles north of Tokyo, where 52 high school students and 11 teachers were mountain climbing.

Authorities say eight Japanese high school students have been found unconscious and are showing 'no vital signs'.

Another three people have been reported missing following the incident.

Scroll down for video

Firefighters carry a survivor they rescued from the site of an avalanche in Nasu town

Pictured are firefighters rescuing a survivor after an avalanche struck a Japanese ski resort

Students were participating in a climbing event at the resort (pictured) that began Saturday and was supposed to conclude around noon Monday

Six people were found at the resort (pictured) 'showing no vital signs' and three are missing

Two students and one teacher were also injured in the accident at the resort (pictured)

The Nasu Onsen Family Ski Resort in Tochigi prefecture is north of Tokyo

The avalanche hit the Nasu Onsen Family Ski Resort in Tochigi prefecture north of Tokyo Monday morning.

Nasu Onsen Family is a small ski hill on the slopes of Mount Nasu.

Students from various high schools were participating in a climbing event there that began Saturday and was supposed to conclude around noon Monday, a person connected with one of the participating schools told The Mainichi.

Officials are investigating whether more people are missing or injured.

Fire officials received the emergency call around 9.20am UTC Monday

Officials are investigating whether more people are missing or injured

Nasu Onsen Family is a small ski hill on the slopes of Mount Nasu

There was an unusually heavy snowfall in the region over the past two days and avalanche warnings had been in effect, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency.

On Monday, weather conditions were reported to be bad. About 30cm of snow had accumulated in the highlands since Sunday.

About 50 Japanese students and teachers from various high schools were said to be at the Nasu Onsen Family Ski Resort (pictured) when the avalanche struck Monday morning

An image taken in an area near the ski slope in Nasu Town, Tochigi, where the avalanche hit

The snow combined with rising spring temperatures increased the avalanche risk, said Robert Speta, a meteorologist for Japan's broadcasting corporation NHK World.

Poor weather conditions continue to hamper rescue efforts, with helicopters unable to reach the scene.

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said during a parliamentary session that his government 'will make every effort to respond to the disaster, while making it a top priority to rescue victims' of the avalanche.