Nissan recalls more than 56,000 cars, cites power steering
Nissan recalls more than 56,000 cars, cites power steering
Shares                Nissan is recalling more than 56,000 cars because of power steering hoses that may leak fluid and potentially lead to fires. Nissan North America says the recall affects the 2013-2014 Murano vehicles. It says the problem stems from the power steering hose clamp, which may not adequately secure the hose. That could allow the hose to detach and leak power steering fluid. That could lead to a fire If it leaks onto a hot engine or exhaust pipes, the company said. Nissan says dealers will install a new power steering high pressure hose kit, free of charge. Car owners can contact Nissan customer service at 1-800-647-7261 or the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Vehicle Safety Hotline at 1-888-327-4236 or visit www.safercar.gov. Shares                  Nissan recalls more than 56,000 cars, cites power steering   Trump shifts blame to conservatives on failure of health care bill   Trump plans office to bring business ideas to government   South Korea prosecutors push to arrest ex-leader   Illinois considers legalizing marijuana for a fiscal boost   With eye toward Trump, Arab leaders to seek consensus   Ivanka Trump to attend women's economic summit in Berlin   Mexico's Catholic Church: Work on Trump wall is treason   New York City sanitation workers retrieve a woman's wedding rings against the odds   Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   Student hailed a hero after performing Heimlich maneuver on classmate   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Mom pays tribute to 'the village' that made daughter's adoption possible   Customer shocks Starbucks barista with apology and $50   California slaying victims are mom, 2 kids and another woman   Judge says Pulse lawsuit may be tossed out of federal court   Syrian opposition calls on US to spare civilians in Raqqa   London attacker was in Saudi Arabia 3 times, says embassy   Storms to take aim at Plains in turbulent week of weather   Medical pot bill in S. Carolina bolstered by conservatives   Seattle plant failure dumps millions of gallons of sewage   Hamas closes Gaza crossing with Israel after shadowy killing   Cincinnati nightclub shooting that killed 1, injured 15 started as a dispute: police   Frenchmen travel across U.S. in honor of Pulse victims   Emails between allegedly kidnapped teen and former teacher reveal 'romantic interest,' says DA   Family of teen allegedly kidnapped: 'Elizabeth must be found'   No surprise: Beijing's pick Lam chosen as Hong Kong's leader   NY officer's body camera reveals horrific murder-for-hire crime scene   Antonio Banderas says he's recovered from a heart attack   Holly Robinson Peete shares how Charles Kinsey's shooting affected her family

Nissan is recalling more than 56,000 cars because of power steering hoses that may leak fluid and potentially lead to fires.

Nissan North America says the recall affects the 2013-2014 Murano vehicles. It says the problem stems from the power steering hose clamp, which may not adequately secure the hose. That could allow the hose to detach and leak power steering fluid. That could lead to a fire If it leaks onto a hot engine or exhaust pipes, the company said.

Nissan says dealers will install a new power steering high pressure hose kit, free of charge. Car owners can contact Nissan customer service at 1-800-647-7261 or the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Vehicle Safety Hotline at 1-888-327-4236 or visit www.safercar.gov.