Everything You Need To Know About Hong Kong's Curiously Undemocratic Leadership Vote
Everything You Need To Know About Hong Kong's Curiously Undemocratic Leadership Vote
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Inside Asia       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Hong Kong's new chief executive Carrie Lam (C) at a press conference on March 26. (ANTHONY WALLACE/AFP/Getty Images) It wasn’t a real election -- and the city knew it. But that didn’t make Sunday any less pivotal for Hong Kong, when Carrie Lam was selected to lead the former British colony in its twentieth year since being transferred to Chinese rule -- becoming Hong Kong’s first female chief executive. What just happened, and why does it matter? Under an arrangement since 1997 called “One Country, Two Systems” Hong Kong is what China calls a "special administrative region" -- a territory of 7.3 million people officially under Beijing’s control but retaining a “high degree of autonomy,” with its own government, currency, legal system and border controls. In theory, it’s a compromise that protects the characteristics that make Hong Kong an economic powerhouse, while affirming China’s final authority. In practice, it’s an uneasy setup that's left a lot of room for conflict. the decades-long debate over how Hong Kong should choose its leader, called the Chief Executive. Currently, candidates are voted in by an “Election Committee” of just 1,200 members stacked with business interests and Beijing loyalists, in a scheme designed to make sure China retains de facto control. That’s how the outgoing leader -- a Beijing loyalist named C.Y. Leung -- was chosen. Lam, his second in command, just won the election in the same way. Yet this system isn’t what Hong Kongers were promised. The city’s constitution, known as the Basic Law, mandates the development of a system of “universal suffrage” to elect the Chief Executive. But years of negotiations have been unable to produce a plan everyone can agree upon. Hong Kong’s pro-democracy coalition, which commands a huge amount of public support, have long demanded open elections where citizens can both nominate and vote for the Chief Executive. But Beijing and its establishment allies like Leung and Lam have stubbornly resisted, proposing a final offer in 2014: that Hong Kongers may cast votes for their leader provided Beijing pre-approves the candidates. For pro-democracy Hong Kongers, that’s an unacceptable betrayal of the Basic Law’s original intention. , also known as the Umbrella Movement , a massive popular street occupation that choked off main thoroughfares during the last three months of 2014, a last-resort bid to pressure authorities to allow open elections in Hong Kong. Yet despite the spectacular demonstration, Beijing, Leung and Lam refused to make a single concession to protesters. Lam even debated against the protest leaders on live television, before Hong Kong police ultimately cleared the occupations by force. Activists hold yellow umbrellas, a symbol of the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong. (ANTHONY WALLACE/AFP/Getty Images) In the wake of the movement’s failure, a growing separatist movement has emerged in Hong Kong, made of predominantly young activists who see declaring independence from China as the only way to achieve a free society. Some of the separatists even gained seats in Hong Kong’s midterm legislative elections last year, only for Leung’s government to force them out of their seats with lawsuits when they inserted pro-independence language into their oaths of office. Meanwhile, Leung’s approval rating has plummeted to record lows -- he declined to seek a second term, citing a wish to spend more time with his family. was mainly a contest between two establishment visions of the way forward. The main challenger to Lam was John Tsang, a folksy, moustached former financial secretary who enjoyed significant popular support, according to opinion polls. A pro-establishment candidate, he was seen as a moderate who aspired to balance the interests of China’s leadership and the people of Hong Kong. Specifically, Tsang argued that his popular support would allow him to heal the city’s deep divisions after the Umbrella Movement. Days before the final vote, he held a massive rally near the location of the 2014 street occupations, pledging to give the site a “new meaning.” Lam was no match for Tsang as a campaigner. Viewed almost universally as a continuation of the unpopular Leung, she failed to strike a chord with Hong Kong’s residents. She was mocked for embarrassing PR flubs like not knowing how to use a subway turnstile, and a gaffe about not knowing where to buy toilet paper . Nonetheless, she was widely understood to be Beijing’s preferred choice. With her strong opposition to pro-democracy campaigners and an ardent pro-Beijing track record, Lam’s loyalty carried the day with the powers that be. offered a revealing look into Beijing’s vision for Hong Kong’s future. If Tsang stood for the possibility that Hong Kong’s pro-democracy dissenters could be artfully managed, even negotiated with, Lam’s win means authorities will likely follow the same uncompromising playbook as before: give no ground. There will now almost certainly be more bitter confrontations ahead for Hong Kong. In this ostensibly democratic city, ruled by one of the least democratic countries in the world, the choice of Lam affirms, twenty years after the handover, that Hong Kong people still have little say over their own future. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

It wasn’t a real election -- and the city knew it.

But that didn’t make Sunday any less pivotal for Hong Kong, when Carrie Lam was selected to lead the former British colony in its twentieth year since being transferred to Chinese rule -- becoming Hong Kong’s first female chief executive.

What just happened, and why does it matter?

First, the basics. Under an arrangement since 1997 called “One Country, Two Systems” Hong Kong is what China calls a "special administrative region" -- a territory of 7.3 million people officially under Beijing’s control but retaining a “high degree of autonomy,” with its own government, currency, legal system and border controls. In theory, it’s a compromise that protects the characteristics that make Hong Kong an economic powerhouse, while affirming China’s final authority. In practice, it’s an uneasy setup that's left a lot of room for conflict.

A central issue is the decades-long debate over how Hong Kong should choose its leader, called the Chief Executive. Currently, candidates are voted in by an “Election Committee” of just 1,200 members stacked with business interests and Beijing loyalists, in a scheme designed to make sure China retains de facto control. That’s how the outgoing leader -- a Beijing loyalist named C.Y. Leung -- was chosen. Lam, his second in command, just won the election in the same way.

Yet this system isn’t what Hong Kongers were promised. The city’s constitution, known as the Basic Law, mandates the development of a system of “universal suffrage” to elect the Chief Executive. But years of negotiations have been unable to produce a plan everyone can agree upon.

Hong Kong’s pro-democracy coalition, which commands a huge amount of public support, have long demanded open elections where citizens can both nominate and vote for the Chief Executive. But Beijing and its establishment allies like Leung and Lam have stubbornly resisted, proposing a final offer in 2014: that Hong Kongers may cast votes for their leader provided Beijing pre-approves the candidates. For pro-democracy Hong Kongers, that’s an unacceptable betrayal of the Basic Law’s original intention.

Their response was Occupy Hong Kong, also known as the Umbrella Movement, a massive popular street occupation that choked off main thoroughfares during the last three months of 2014, a last-resort bid to pressure authorities to allow open elections in Hong Kong. Yet despite the spectacular demonstration, Beijing, Leung and Lam refused to make a single concession to protesters. Lam even debated against the protest leaders on live television, before Hong Kong police ultimately cleared the occupations by force.

In the wake of the movement’s failure, a growing separatist movement has emerged in Hong Kong, made of predominantly young activists who see declaring independence from China as the only way to achieve a free society. Some of the separatists even gained seats in Hong Kong’s midterm legislative elections last year, only for Leung’s government to force them out of their seats with lawsuits when they inserted pro-independence language into their oaths of office. Meanwhile, Leung’s approval rating has plummeted to record lows -- he declined to seek a second term, citing a wish to spend more time with his family.

This Sunday’s election was mainly a contest between two establishment visions of the way forward.

The main challenger to Lam was John Tsang, a folksy, moustached former financial secretary who enjoyed significant popular support, according to opinion polls. A pro-establishment candidate, he was seen as a moderate who aspired to balance the interests of China’s leadership and the people of Hong Kong. Specifically, Tsang argued that his popular support would allow him to heal the city’s deep divisions after the Umbrella Movement. Days before the final vote, he held a massive rally near the location of the 2014 street occupations, pledging to give the site a “new meaning.”

Lam was no match for Tsang as a campaigner. Viewed almost universally as a continuation of the unpopular Leung, she failed to strike a chord with Hong Kong’s residents. She was mocked for embarrassing PR flubs like not knowing how to use a subway turnstile, and a gaffe about not knowing where to buy toilet paper. Nonetheless, she was widely understood to be Beijing’s preferred choice. With her strong opposition to pro-democracy campaigners and an ardent pro-Beijing track record, Lam’s loyalty carried the day with the powers that be.

Sunday’s results offered a revealing look into Beijing’s vision for Hong Kong’s future. If Tsang stood for the possibility that Hong Kong’s pro-democracy dissenters could be artfully managed, even negotiated with, Lam’s win means authorities will likely follow the same uncompromising playbook as before: give no ground. There will now almost certainly be more bitter confrontations ahead for Hong Kong. In this ostensibly democratic city, ruled by one of the least democratic countries in the world, the choice of Lam affirms, twenty years after the handover, that Hong Kong people still have little say over their own future.