Chinese woman has mushrooms growing inside her
Grim footage shows mushrooms inside of a woman's stomach


Look away now if you have a weak stomach.

This is the utterly disgusting footage that shows doctors removing a bunch of mushrooms that were stuck inside a woman's stomach.

Chinese doctors believe they became lodged in the 50-year-old's intestines due to her not chewing her food properly.

They also claim that she didn't allow the mushrooms enough time to expand in water before eating them - meaning they grew inside of her instead.

After complaining of severe stomach cramps for a few days, the unnamed patient sought immediate medical advice - and was hospitalised.

Chinese doctors conducted various medical scans to understand what was causing her problem before they made the surprise discovery.

Filmed in Yiwu, Zheijang Province, they found that mushrooms as big as 7cm in diameter were living inside of her.

Due to being short on time while cooking, the 50-year-old did not wait for her dried shiitake mushrooms to expand in the water, local reports suggest.

Throwing them into her stew, she drank the mixture and swallowed several of the still-dehydrated organisms.

They are believed to have expanded inside her stomach, causing the painful blockage the next day.

Chinese doctors found mushrooms as big as 7cm in diameter were living inside of the unnamed 50-year-old woman's stomach

After complaining of severe stomach cramps for a few days, the 50-year-old sought immediate medical advice - and was hospitalised

The woman was taken into surgery and the mushrooms were removed piece by piece from her intestine.

Dr Wang Weifei, who treated the patient, said: 'Our scans showed that the woman’s duodenum, which is where the stomach meets the small intestine, had been obstructed by several mushrooms.

'While many of them were in pieces, we also found a whole mushroom inside measuring around 7cm in length.'

The medic said it was normal for the mushrooms to expand in a very short time after coming into contact with stomach acid.

This is why it is important to prepare them properly in water and also to remember to chew them thoroughly, they added.

She has since recovered from the operation and is believed to have been discharged already.