Pruitt: Trump to sign order on power plant regulations Tuesday
Pruitt: Trump to sign order on power plant regulations Tuesday
Pruitt: Trump to sign order on power plant regulations Tuesday Updated 0200 GMT (1000 HKT) March 27, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (6 Videos) Story highlights The EPA plan set national standards for cutting carbon emissions It also has sought to reduce coal's share of the nation's power generation EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said Sunday that President Donald Trump is expected to sign an executive order Tuesday that will begin to undo the "Clean Power Plan," a major initiative of the Obama administration to deal with climate change by reducing carbon pollution from power plants.

Story highlights The EPA plan set national standards for cutting carbon emissions

It also has sought to reduce coal's share of the nation's power generation

(CNN) EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said Sunday that President Donald Trump is expected to sign an executive order Tuesday that will begin to undo the "Clean Power Plan," a major initiative of the Obama administration to deal with climate change by reducing carbon pollution from power plants.

Pruitt, who previously challenged the plan as Oklahoma's attorney general, said the executive order will put in place pro-growth and pro-environment approaches to regulation.

"We've made tremendous progress on our environment, and we can be both pro-jobs and pro-environment," Pruitt told ABC's George Stephanopoulos on "This Week." "And the executive order's going to address the past administration's effort to kill jobs across this country through the Clean Power Plan."

The EPA plan is meant to reduce climate-changing greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired and natural gas power plants, with a goal of reduce greenhouse emissions up to 32% by 2030. It would require states to meet specific carbon emission reduction standards based on their individual energy consumption, and it includes an incentive program for states to get ahead start on meeting standards on early deployment of renewable energy.

The plan is also considered important to helping the United States meet the goals set out in a climate treaty signed in Paris in 2015. While the U.S. Supreme Court blocked the plan from going into effect to allow legal challenges to move forward, the new executive order could send a negative signal to other countries in the Paris accord about the United States' commitment to the deal.

Read More