Drought-stricken Somalia battles hunger and cholera
Drought-stricken Somalia battles hunger and cholera
Shares                An emaciated woman writhes on her hospital bed, weakly waving her bony hand to create a current of air. Cholera patient Zeinab Hussein, a 50-year-old farmer, is one of thousands of desperate Somalis who have streamed into Baidoa in southwestern Somalia seeking food and medical care as a result the country's prolonged drought . The influx has overwhelmed local and international aid agencies. The hospital ward is filled with the sound of crying, malnourished children, many fed through tubes in their noses. The new patients, mostly children, show signs of chronic malnourishment when they arrive at therapeutic clinics run by UNICEF, said aid workers. The cholera epidemic is most prevalent among women and children. Cholera outbreaks often occur in refugee camps due to overcrowding and poor sanitation. Water scarcity also remains a major problem among the new arrivals in the refugee camps. In recent weeks, aid agencies have started a cholera vaccination campaign across Somalia. Somalia's drought is threatening 3 million lives, according to the U.N. In recent months, aid agencies have been scaling up their efforts but they say said more support is urgently needed to prevent the crisis from worsening. More aid "is very important if we want to prevent the cholera from going out of control and also to prevent famine. We have to get the funding now to prevent it," Steven Lauwerier, UNICEF's representative for Somalia, said standing inside a Baidoa hospital ward. "We are still ahead of the curve of the famine because now is when we can save lives," he said. "This is not the time to have doubts that funding is not needed." Somalia's emergency is joined by similar hunger crises in South Sudan , northeastern Nigeria and Yemen, which together make the world's largest humanitarian disaster in more than 70 years, according to U.N. officials. In Somalia, drought-stricken families have had to move from one place to another in order to reach international aid agencies that cannot distribute food in areas under the control of al-Shabab, Somali's homegrown Islamic extremist rebels who are affiliated to al-Qaida. With her newborn baby, just 40 days old, Sangabo Madey walked for two days to reach a camp in Baidoa in search of food and water. Standing beside a hut of sticks and plastic sheeting, constantly blown by the wind, the mother of five said she does not know what to do next. "We were unable to feed our children. Because of the drought we did not have anything to eat," Madey said. "We left our hometowns to come here, but there is little aid coming in and we still continue to suffer." Shares                  Drought-stricken Somalia battles hunger and cholera   White House adviser Jared Kushner to speak with Senate Intel Committee   200 more US troops headed to Iraq to assist Mosul offensive   'Hero' in Kansas triple shooting honored with $100,000   Severe storms bring golf ball-sized hail to Texas   Trump plans office to bring business ideas to government   British, Scottish leaders to meet amid independence dispute   South Korean prosecutors push to arrest ousted president   Death toll in attack on South Sudan aid workers rises to 7   Police: 'No apparent reason' for shooting on Vegas Strip bus   Fire department welcomes 6 babies in 7 months   94-year-old woman celebrates 44 years working at McDonald's   New York City sanitation workers retrieve a woman's wedding rings against the odds   Diver pulls metal hook from shark's belly off Florida coast   Student hailed a hero after performing Heimlich maneuver on classmate   Grandparents text photo of every In-N-Out Burger visit   Pennsylvania restaurant offers discount for families who have phone-free meals   Mom collecting hundreds of Hawaiian shirts for her son, fellow soldiers overseas   57 dogs saved from kill shelters meet their new families in touching video   Despite some tensions, evangelical churches booming in Cuba   Officer quits to avoid firing after shooting of unarmed teen   Illinois considers legalizing marijuana for a fiscal boost   California slaying victims are mom, 2 kids and another woman   Judge says Pulse lawsuit may be tossed out of federal court   Russian opposition leader gets jail sentence after mass protests   Hundreds arrested in Russian anti-corruption protests   8 Japanese students feared dead after avalanche   Why I chose to document my preventive double mastectomy on social media   NYC Mayor: 'Fearless Girl' statue can stay through Feb. 2018   NY officer's body camera reveals horrific murder-for-hire crime scene   What went down on last night's 'The Walking Dead'   Elton John celebrates 70th birthday with star-studded party   Jake Gyllenhaal opens up about 'Life,' and his friendship with Ryan Reynolds

An emaciated woman writhes on her hospital bed, weakly waving her bony hand to create a current of air.

Cholera patient Zeinab Hussein, a 50-year-old farmer, is one of thousands of desperate Somalis who have streamed into Baidoa in southwestern Somalia seeking food and medical care as a result the country's prolonged drought. The influx has overwhelmed local and international aid agencies.

The hospital ward is filled with the sound of crying, malnourished children, many fed through tubes in their noses.

The new patients, mostly children, show signs of chronic malnourishment when they arrive at therapeutic clinics run by UNICEF, said aid workers.

The cholera epidemic is most prevalent among women and children. Cholera outbreaks often occur in refugee camps due to overcrowding and poor sanitation. Water scarcity also remains a major problem among the new arrivals in the refugee camps. In recent weeks, aid agencies have started a cholera vaccination campaign across Somalia.

Somalia's drought is threatening 3 million lives, according to the U.N. In recent months, aid agencies have been scaling up their efforts but they say said more support is urgently needed to prevent the crisis from worsening.

More aid "is very important if we want to prevent the cholera from going out of control and also to prevent famine. We have to get the funding now to prevent it," Steven Lauwerier, UNICEF's representative for Somalia, said standing inside a Baidoa hospital ward.

"We are still ahead of the curve of the famine because now is when we can save lives," he said. "This is not the time to have doubts that funding is not needed."

Somalia's emergency is joined by similar hunger crises in South Sudan, northeastern Nigeria and Yemen, which together make the world's largest humanitarian disaster in more than 70 years, according to U.N. officials.

In Somalia, drought-stricken families have had to move from one place to another in order to reach international aid agencies that cannot distribute food in areas under the control of al-Shabab, Somali's homegrown Islamic extremist rebels who are affiliated to al-Qaida.

With her newborn baby, just 40 days old, Sangabo Madey walked for two days to reach a camp in Baidoa in search of food and water. Standing beside a hut of sticks and plastic sheeting, constantly blown by the wind, the mother of five said she does not know what to do next.

"We were unable to feed our children. Because of the drought we did not have anything to eat," Madey said. "We left our hometowns to come here, but there is little aid coming in and we still continue to suffer."