The new 'Spider-Man: Homecoming' trailer gets its own trailer
The new 'Spider-Man: Homecoming' trailer gets its own trailer
There's highly anticipated, and then there's "so highly anticipated that even your trailers have trailers." , apparently, falls into the latter category. Sony has just released a six-second tease for the next Spidey promo, which arrives tomorrow morning. In it, our friendly neighborhood superhero clings to the side of a wall while sending a mechanical insect to do his bidding. SEE ALSO: The 'Spider-Man: Homecoming' poster leans into Spidey's Avengers connection There's also the briefest shot of the Vulture – the big bad villain played by former Batman Michael Keaton. As director Jon Watts explained to USA Today , he's part of a crew tasked with cleaning up the destruction that all of these Marvel superhero battles leave in their wake. As he gets fed up with his work, though, he turns to crime and positions himself as a sort of "dark Tony Stark." That's where Spidey steps in, with some help from the real Tony Stark. Because just in case you've forgotten, this Spider-Man, unlike our last two Spider-Men, hangs out with the Avengers. swings into theaters July 7. Quickest way to get home. #SpiderManHomecoming  pic.twitter.com/O50JUhWKKr — Spider-Man (@SpiderManMovie) March 25, 2017 Latest 'Final Fantasy XV' update straight trolls Trump John Oliver introduces us to some absolutely horrifying elected Republicans in Texas Take That Carpool Karaoke is 15 minutes of sweet, sweet happiness Fake VHS ad for Star Wars 'Rogue One' looks straight out of the '70s

There's highly anticipated, and then there's "so highly anticipated that even your trailers have trailers."

Spider-Man: Homecoming, apparently, falls into the latter category.

Sony has just released a six-second tease for the next Spidey promo, which arrives tomorrow morning. In it, our friendly neighborhood superhero clings to the side of a wall while sending a mechanical insect to do his bidding.

There's also the briefest shot of the Vulture – the big bad villain played by former Batman Michael Keaton. As Spider-Man: Homecoming director Jon Watts explained to USA Today, he's part of a crew tasked with cleaning up the destruction that all of these Marvel superhero battles leave in their wake.

As he gets fed up with his work, though, he turns to crime and positions himself as a sort of "dark Tony Stark."

That's where Spidey steps in, with some help from the real Tony Stark. Because just in case you've forgotten, this Spider-Man, unlike our last two Spider-Men, hangs out with the Avengers.

Spider-Man: Homecoming swings into theaters July 7.