LeBron James Goes Off on Youth Basketball Coaches for Not Pushing Players Hard Enough
LeBron James Goes Off on Youth Basketball Coaches for Not Pushing Players Hard Enough
It’s pretty rare to see LeBron James send out a string of tweets about the same subject. Every now and then, he’ll get locked into a big game on TV and tweet about it more than once. But for the most part, he tends to send out singular tweets on one topic before later moving on to a different one. That was most definitely not the case on Sunday night when he strung together eight consecutive tweets over the course of about ten minutes. In the tweets, LeBron called out all of the high school basketball coaches out there for not pushing their players hard enough and said that he can’t just stand by and watch it happen anymore because of how much he loves the game. He started things off by giving a shout-out to his own St. Vincent–St. Mary High School coaches before telling coaches who "have their own agenda" when it comes to kids that it’s their job to give their players the tools they’ll need to be successful leaders later on in life. Here are the tweets LeBron sent out: Man if it wasn't for Big Frank, Bruce Kelker, Willie Earl, @CoachDambrot  @CoachDruJoyce I wouldn't be the player/man I am today! As a kid... they showed toughness and stayed on me every single day! Never sugar coded nothing, told me to real and lit me up when I wasn't applying.... Reason I'm saying this is I believe this is a major part of the reason why kids don't succeed as much because the leaders, coaches, etc..... won't get on them because their afraid of losing the kid, or losing the sponsorship that comes with the kids, or have their own agenda...... on how much they can benefit in the long run from the kid not realizing they're cheating the shit out of the kid. We as kids don't know..... We need to be pushed, kicked, loved, then pushed and kicked again cause that's what brings and breads the hunger inside of us! Whoever u.... are out there please stop worrying about u and if u really care for the kid give them the guidance as my Coaches, mentors did for me!..... Can't stand for it anymore because of I ❤️ and will die right now for my Sport and for SPORTS in general. #JustMyOpinion It’s unclear what brought any of this on. LeBron has been tweeting about his former high school’s state championship run a lot in recent days: Congrats @CoachDruJoyce and the Boys on bringing that Chip back to where it belongs!! # StateChamps 🥇 # IrishPride ☘️ So maybe that sparked the tweets. But something must have struck a chord with LeBron over the weekend, and it led to one of the more passionate Twitter rants we’ve ever seen from him.

It’s pretty rare to see LeBron James send out a string of tweets about the same subject. Every now and then, he’ll get locked into a big game on TV and tweet about it more than once. But for the most part, he tends to send out singular tweets on one topic before later moving on to a different one.

That was most definitely not the case on Sunday night when he strung together eight consecutive tweets over the course of about ten minutes. In the tweets, LeBron called out all of the high school basketball coaches out there for not pushing their players hard enough and said that he can’t just stand by and watch it happen anymore because of how much he loves the game. He started things off by giving a shout-out to his own St. Vincent–St. Mary High School coaches before telling coaches who "have their own agenda" when it comes to kids that it’s their job to give their players the tools they’ll need to be successful leaders later on in life.

Here are the tweets LeBron sent out:

Man if it wasn't for Big Frank, Bruce Kelker, Willie Earl, @CoachDambrot @CoachDruJoyce I wouldn't be the player/man I am today! As a kid... — LeBron James (@KingJames) March 27, 2017 they showed toughness and stayed on me every single day! Never sugar coded nothing, told me to real and lit me up when I wasn't applying.... — LeBron James (@KingJames) March 27, 2017 Reason I'm saying this is I believe this is a major part of the reason why kids don't succeed as much because the leaders, coaches, etc..... — LeBron James (@KingJames) March 27, 2017 won't get on them because their afraid of losing the kid, or losing the sponsorship that comes with the kids, or have their own agenda...... — LeBron James (@KingJames) March 27, 2017 on how much they can benefit in the long run from the kid not realizing they're cheating the shit out of the kid. We as kids don't know..... — LeBron James (@KingJames) March 27, 2017 We need to be pushed, kicked, loved, then pushed and kicked again cause that's what brings and breads the hunger inside of us! Whoever u.... — LeBron James (@KingJames) March 27, 2017 are out there please stop worrying about u and if u really care for the kid give them the guidance as my Coaches, mentors did for me!..... — LeBron James (@KingJames) March 27, 2017 Can't stand for it anymore because of I ❤️ and will die right now for my Sport and for SPORTS in general. #JustMyOpinion — LeBron James (@KingJames) March 27, 2017

It’s unclear what brought any of this on. LeBron has been tweeting about his former high school’s state championship run a lot in recent days:

So maybe that sparked the tweets. But something must have struck a chord with LeBron over the weekend, and it led to one of the more passionate Twitter rants we’ve ever seen from him.