Church accuses Mexicans who work on Trump wall of 'treason'
Church accuses Mexicans who work on Trump wall of 'treason'
he Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Mexico has condemned as "traitors" any local companies or people who help build President Donald Trump's proposed border wall . As some Mexican firms considered profiting from the multi-billion dollar project the church called them "immoral". An editorial in Desde la fe, the Archdiocese's weekly publication, was titled "Treason against the Homeland" and lambasted Mr Trump as a "fanatic". It said large numbers of Mexican companies were interested in supplying cement, paint, lighting and other raw materials for the wall . "It is not two or three, but more than 500 companies. For them, the end justifies the means," the Archdiocese said. "Any company intending to invest in the wall of the fanatic Trump would be immoral. But, above all, its shareholders and owners should be considered traitors to the homeland. The wall is an open threat that violates relations and peace." he church also criticised the Mexican government for "timidity" and called on it to clamp down on Mexican construction companies getting involved. "In practice, signing up for a project that is a serious affront to dignity is shooting yourself in the foot," the Archdiocese added. "The wall is a monument of intimidation and silence, of xenophobic hatred." Cemex, the Mexican cement maker, is among those considering providing quotes to supply raw materials for the wall, but has said it will not take part in the bidding process to build it. rupo Cementos de Chihuahua, another construction company, has also indicated a willingness to be involved. ast week Ildefonso Guajardom, Mexico's economy minister, warned the country's construction firms it would not be in their "interests" to work on the wall. He said those that did could face boycotts in future from Mexican consumers. r Trump's pledge to build the wall to stop illegal immigrants crossing the border was one of his key campaign promises. Estimates of the cost of building it along the entirety of the nearly 2,000-mile long US-Mexico border are up to $21 billion. Mr Trump has pledged to make Mexico assume the cost of construction. Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto has said his country will not pay for "any" wall.

The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Mexico has condemned as "traitors" any local companies or people who help build President Donald Trump's proposed border wall.

As some Mexican firms considered profiting from the multi-billion dollar project the church called them "immoral".

An editorial in Desde la fe, the Archdiocese's weekly publication, was titled "Treason against the Homeland" and lambasted Mr Trump as a "fanatic".

It said large numbers of Mexican companies were interested in supplying cement, paint, lighting and other raw materials for the wall.

"It is not two or three, but more than 500 companies. For them, the end justifies the means," the Archdiocese said.

"Any company intending to invest in the wall of the fanatic Trump would be immoral. But, above all, its shareholders and owners should be considered traitors to the homeland. The wall is an open threat that violates relations and peace."