22 Mindblowing Books For Anyone Who’s Slightly Obsessed With True Crime
22 Mindblowing Books For Anyone Who’s Slightly Obsessed With True Crime
We recently asked the BuzzFeed Community about the best true crime books they’ve read that people may not have heard of . Here are some of their recommendations: We hope you love the products we recommend! Just so you know, BuzzFeed may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. WARNING: Many of these books contain themes of a violent and disturbing nature.  by Peter Graham Awa Press Awa Press “The woman who is now known as the mystery writer Anne Perry was born Juliet Hulme. At age 15, she and her schoolfriend Pauline Parker murdered Parker’s mother Honora in a park in Christchurch, New Zealand, back in 1954. Their story was the basis of the film , starring Kate Winslet in her breakout role as Juliet, and Melanie Lynskey as Pauline. You know how you read these mystery books for fun? The literary equivalent of a nice cup of hot cocoa? That’s how I read Anne Perry, and to find out she actually murdered someone as a teenager was absolutely shocking. – rhdtmp0705  by Truman Capote Penguin Classics Penguin Classics “Capote brought a fictionalistic writing style to cover the hunt for, capture, and trial of two criminals who murdered a family in rural America. There is this really haunting aspect.” – libbyp4040a4be2  by Gitta Sereny Macmillan Tom Buist/PA “Mindblowing book on the cause of children committing crime.” – hazelw41be739bb  by Anne Marie West Pocket Books PA/PA Archive/PA Images “ by Anne Marie West, daughter of serial killer Fred West. She tells her horrific story of living at 25 Cromwell Street. It’s hard to source but if you can get hold of it, it sheds a lot of light on what went on.” – hazelw41be739bb  by Daniel Keyes Bantam USA Bantam USA “ is probably the most incredible true story I have ever read. A man with 24 personalities, all of which are described in amazing detail, and it follows Billy through life explaining how each personality came to be, the police and lawyers from arrest all the way through trial… I couldn’t put it down!” – TheOnlyCeeCeeJ  by Warren Fellows Mainstream Publishing youtube.com In 1978 Warren Fellows was convicted of heroin trafficking in Thailand and sentenced to life imprisonment. He admits his guilt, and the book details the 12-year ordeal he went through while serving his sentence in Bangkok. “I couldn’t put by Warren Fellows down. Fellows’ account of his 12 years in a Thai prison broke my heart, even though he admits he was guilty.” – s4b35c160d  by John Pearson HarperCollins Keystone / Getty Images “It talks about the twin gangsters who ruled over London during the 1960s. Their criminal empire of organised crime has never been lived up to. The brothers swindled, extorted, and terrorised – while enjoying a glittering celebrity status at the heart of the swinging ’60s scene, until their downfall and imprisonment for life. The twins were arrested for murder and jailed for life and it’s one of the most incredible true stories I have ever read. I borrowed it from my uncle last year, who wasn’t a fan, but I couldn’t put it down. It was my main summer read and I plan to reread it over Easter!” – enchanted-dreamer  by Ann Rule Berkley Berkley “It’s about Randall Woodfield, aka the I-5 killer, and his backstory leading up to the murders and attempted murders. I couldn’t put it down. It was my first Ann Rule book, and now I’ve read 10 of her books since 2011.” – historyluvr92  by Bart J. Allen Virtualbookworm.com Publishing Virtualbookworm.com Publishing “Originally ruled as a suicide in the summer of 2004, Bart Allen did what he felt local police inadequately did and began independently investigating the strange circumstances of his 17-year-old son’s death. He discusses the missing pieces, the pieces that were right beneath everyone’s noses, and the personal tension he faced with police throughout their investigation that ultimately led to a dissatisfying and seemingly wrong verdict. More than 10 years later, the case is still open – an unsolved suicide. This all took place in smalltown USA and my hometown, Salina, Kansas. My sister and I also went to school with the Allen boys, making this all the more real.” – hayrenhag  by Derf Backderf Abrams Abrams “This one’s a comic but it was great nevertheless. It illustrates Jeffery Dahmer’s life as a teen as seen by his friends in high school – very insightful and a unique perspective into the life of a disturbed young boy evolving into a serial killer.” – skyeador  by Jason Moss Vision Vision “It’s the story of a college student who decided to write to serial killers and struck up a friendship with John Wayne Gacy. Super interesting and would recommend watching the movie once you’ve read the book!” – emilyjadew  by Vincent Bugliosi Arrow Arrow “It’s about Charles Manson and his ‘family’ and the crimes they committed. The prosecutor for the case wrote the book and explains how he had to convince a jury that Manson was behind all the crimes that he kept his hands clean of…and his belief in a helter skelter.” – kristenj49546c8ab  by Dennis McDougal Open Road Media Open Road Media “It’s a story about a woman who murders a few of her children and makes their siblings help her hide the murders. It’s absolutely chilling. I read it in high school and to this day reread it every few years.” – Ashsaurus  by Patricia Cornwell Sphere Andrew H. Walker / Getty Images “A friend made me read this book due to my love of true crime and reading and I haven’t looked back. Ms Cornwell writes about the theory that Walter Sickert, a British painter, was the 19th-century serial killer known as Jack the Ripper. Not only is she one of the better fiction crime writers, but her arguments of who Jack the Ripper was are believable. The book was released with a lot of controversy, especially in the British art world where Sickert’s work is admired. A must-read for any Jack the Ripper fan!!!!” – angelad4f447e5f7  by James St. James Simon & Schuster Simon & Schuster “(Originally published as .) It’s written both as a coming-of-age story and a psychological thriller from someone that was actually close to the case and knew everyone involved. It raises some serious questions about fame vs infamy and power struggles between friends and how drugs can change a person. It immerses you in this culture and time that is unlike anything most people will ever experience. It’s absolutely fascinating.” – stephanieb149  by Jim Schutze Avon Books Avon Books “A group of troubled teens, several of whom face appalling abuse at home, decide to get revenge on a classmate who tortures his supposed ‘best friend’ relentlessly. Violence begets more violence begets more violence until the unthinkable happens.” – caitlinm18  by Carla Norton and Christine McGuire Virgin Books Virgin Books “It is about the Colleen Stan case. She was kidnapped and held hostage in a box under a bed for seven years before escaping.” – kinkywench41  by John Grisham Arrow Arrow “I read it at the same time I was watching . You learn how exceptionally difficult it is to overturn a conviction.” – smidgen  by David Rose Harper Perennial Harper Perennial “The true story of a black man called Carlton Gary, arrested for the rape and murder of seven elderly women in Columbus, Georgia. It’s a story about corrupt police and judges, racism in the Deep South of America, and the many critical failings in the US justice system. Despite no compelling physical evidence against him, Gary remains on Death Row today nearly 40 years after his arrest, still fighting appeal after appeal for his release. Think but with a whole racial backstory of lynching and slavery!” – tushtush  by Steve Vogel Saint Martin's Press Inc. Saint Martin's Press Inc. “It’s about the quadruple axe/knife murder of a wife and mother and her three young children in my hometown of Bloomington, Illinois, in 1983. Conveniently absent was husband and father David Hendricks, who stood trial for the brutal slayings. The conviction was later overturned and he was released, but no one else has been indicted. The book chronicles the investigation and trial in detail. Nowadays, public opinion in the community is still against him, and though he no longer lives in the area, there is a decided level of discomfort when news gets around that he is visiting.” – ameliarf  by Bernard Lefkowitz University of California Press University of California Press “A truly fascinating book about how a group of high school athletes were allowed to spiral out of control and become absolute monsters. The book is well-written and does a great job of getting into the psychology of the town and the people in the town to explain why these horrible monsters came to be.” –M.J. Cormier, Facebook  by Douglas Preston Virgin Books Virgin Books “ by Douglas Preston was excellent. The murders themselves were horrific, but the book mostly focuses on the ineptitudes of the investigators involved and how religion and superstition can severely bias an investigation. The lead investigator is also the lead investigator in the Amanda Knox case, and this book will put that case in an entirely different light for you too.” –Mallory Christine, Facebook If you want to be featured in future BuzzFeed posts, make sure to follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter .   19 Strange Quirks You Have To Get Used To If You're...    This Quiz Will Choose Your Next Tattoo For You

“The woman who is now known as the mystery writer Anne Perry was born Juliet Hulme. At age 15, she and her schoolfriend Pauline Parker murdered Parker’s mother Honora in a park in Christchurch, New Zealand, back in 1954.

Their story was the basis of the film Heavenly Creatures, starring Kate Winslet in her breakout role as Juliet, and Melanie Lynskey as Pauline.

You know how you read these mystery books for fun? The literary equivalent of a nice cup of hot cocoa? That’s how I read Anne Perry, and to find out she actually murdered someone as a teenager was absolutely shocking. –rhdtmp0705