Intel chair Nunes' White House meeting with source raises concern over Trump inquiry

in New York    The embattled House intelligence committee chairman, Devin Nunes, has said he had no choice under classification rules except to view documents ostensibly related to intelligence collection on Donald Trump at the White House, a statement likely to intensify speculation that the Trump administration fed Nunes the material. The source for Nunes’s documents, whom the chairman has not disclosed, “could not simply put the documents in a backpack and walk them over to the House Intelligence Committee space”, Nunes’ office said Monday, addressing the latest twist in a controversy that is now overshadowing the committee’s politically charged investigation into Kremlin interference in the 2016 election. Nunes, a member of Trump’s national security transition team, has come under sustained criticism for obstructing a high-profile investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia that he is running – a charge likely to intensify over the coming days. On Wednesday, the California Republican stunned Washington by suggesting that communications from Trump’s associates were incidentally collected as part of “lawful” surveillance, with their identities insufficiently masked. Contradicting testimony from the FBI and NSA directors , Trump claimed Nunes’ remarks provided a modicum of vindication for the president’s baseless claim that Obama placed Trump Tower under surveillance, something even Nunes continues to deny. Nunes has said the intelligence collection that “alarmed” him did not concern Russia. Nunes informed the White House and the press before sharing any documents with the committee, a move that prompted Nunes’ Democratic counterpart, Adam Schiff, to publicly doubt the impartiality of the House inquiry, and for which Nunes reportedly apologized. Those concerns escalated after Nunes, who has still not shared the documents with his own committee, abruptly canceled a public hearing scheduled for Tuesday into the Trump-Russia question. Nunes has dodged questions, primarily from CNN, that his source came from the White House, and intimated that whistleblowers from the intelligence agencies brought the surveillance documents to him. Nunes told Bloomberg View on Monday that his source was an intelligence official and not a White House staffer. But Nunes’ office has acknowledged that the chairman viewed whatever surveillance documents he has acquired on the White House grounds, apparently at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, where the National Security Council staff works. Viewing the documents at the White House came under immediate scrutiny, since the House committee possesses secure facilities where it frequently accesses classified information as part of its routine responsibilities. But Jack Langer, Nunes’ spokesman, told the Guardian that Nunes saw at the White House “executive branch documents” that Congress does not have. “Because of classification rules, the source could not simply put the documents in a backpack and walk them over to the House Intelligence Committee space. The White House grounds was the best location to safeguard the proper chain of custody and classification of these documents, so the Chairman could view them in a legal way,” Langer said. It remained unclear why, if Nunes’ source did not originate from the White House, viewing the documents had to occur at the White House complex. His explanation to Bloomberg was that the White House was the closest available location to access a classified computer network hived off from Congress. Nunes appears not to have paid visits to intelligence agency locations where the information would be accessible, including the offices of the director of national intelligence, FBI and NSA. Langer did not immediately respond to a follow-up question about whether Nunes had in effect confirmed that his source for the documents came from the White House itself. Nor did Langer respond to a question about whether Nunes would resign from his position. Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House committee, was traveling Monday and did not address the controversy. Like the other Democrats on the committee, Schiff wants an independent commission to investigate Trump and Russia. Last week, the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, suggested the idea the White House was the source of Nunes’ information did not pass “the smell test”. “I don’t know why he was coming up to brief the president on something that we gave him,” Spicer told reporters at his regular briefing. “It doesn’t really seem to make a ton of sense.” Nunes has been a consistent ally for Trump on Capitol Hill. He was an ardent defender of Michael Flynn, the national security adviser who had to resign after misleading the vice-president over conversations with the Russian ambassador concerning sanctions easement. Nunes, during last week’s hearing, geared his questioning of the FBI director, James Comey, and the NSA director, Michael Rogers, about leaks alleged to have come from the intelligence agencies, not the intelligence agencies’ assessment of Russian interference in the election to benefit Trump.  Trump administration   US Congress   US politics   House of Representatives   news

Devin Nunes’s office says classification rules meant he ‘could not simply put the documents in a backpack’ and take them to intelligence committee

The embattled House intelligence committee chairman, Devin Nunes, has said he had no choice under classification rules except to view documents ostensibly related to intelligence collection on Donald Trump at the White House, a statement likely to intensify speculation that the Trump administration fed Nunes the material.

Lawmaker's 'peculiar midnight run' endangers Trump-Russia inquiry Read more

The source for Nunes’s documents, whom the chairman has not disclosed, “could not simply put the documents in a backpack and walk them over to the House Intelligence Committee space”, Nunes’ office said Monday, addressing the latest twist in a controversy that is now overshadowing the committee’s politically charged investigation into Kremlin interference in the 2016 election.

Nunes, a member of Trump’s national security transition team, has come under sustained criticism for obstructing a high-profile investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia that he is running – a charge likely to intensify over the coming days.

On Wednesday, the California Republican stunned Washington by suggesting that communications from Trump’s associates were incidentally collected as part of “lawful” surveillance, with their identities insufficiently masked.

Contradicting testimony from the FBI and NSA directors, Trump claimed Nunes’ remarks provided a modicum of vindication for the president’s baseless claim that Obama placed Trump Tower under surveillance, something even Nunes continues to deny. Nunes has said the intelligence collection that “alarmed” him did not concern Russia.

Nunes informed the White House and the press before sharing any documents with the committee, a move that prompted Nunes’ Democratic counterpart, Adam Schiff, to publicly doubt the impartiality of the House inquiry, and for which Nunes reportedly apologized. Those concerns escalated after Nunes, who has still not shared the documents with his own committee, abruptly canceled a public hearing scheduled for Tuesday into the Trump-Russia question.

Nunes has dodged questions, primarily from CNN, that his source came from the White House, and intimated that whistleblowers from the intelligence agencies brought the surveillance documents to him. Nunes told Bloomberg View on Monday that his source was an intelligence official and not a White House staffer.

But Nunes’ office has acknowledged that the chairman viewed whatever surveillance documents he has acquired on the White House grounds, apparently at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, where the National Security Council staff works.

Viewing the documents at the White House came under immediate scrutiny, since the House committee possesses secure facilities where it frequently accesses classified information as part of its routine responsibilities.

But Jack Langer, Nunes’ spokesman, told the Guardian that Nunes saw at the White House “executive branch documents” that Congress does not have.

“Because of classification rules, the source could not simply put the documents in a backpack and walk them over to the House Intelligence Committee space. The White House grounds was the best location to safeguard the proper chain of custody and classification of these documents, so the Chairman could view them in a legal way,” Langer said.



It remained unclear why, if Nunes’ source did not originate from the White House, viewing the documents had to occur at the White House complex. His explanation to Bloomberg was that the White House was the closest available location to access a classified computer network hived off from Congress. Nunes appears not to have paid visits to intelligence agency locations where the information would be accessible, including the offices of the director of national intelligence, FBI and NSA.

Langer did not immediately respond to a follow-up question about whether Nunes had in effect confirmed that his source for the documents came from the White House itself.

Nor did Langer respond to a question about whether Nunes would resign from his position.

Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House committee, was traveling Monday and did not address the controversy. Like the other Democrats on the committee, Schiff wants an independent commission to investigate Trump and Russia.

Last week, the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, suggested the idea the White House was the source of Nunes’ information did not pass “the smell test”.

Trump-Russia inquiry in 'grave doubt' after GOP chair briefs White House Read more

“I don’t know why he was coming up to brief the president on something that we gave him,” Spicer told reporters at his regular briefing. “It doesn’t really seem to make a ton of sense.”

Nunes has been a consistent ally for Trump on Capitol Hill. He was an ardent defender of Michael Flynn, the national security adviser who had to resign after misleading the vice-president over conversations with the Russian ambassador concerning sanctions easement.

Nunes, during last week’s hearing, geared his questioning of the FBI director, James Comey, and the NSA director, Michael Rogers, about leaks alleged to have come from the intelligence agencies, not the intelligence agencies’ assessment of Russian interference in the election to benefit Trump.