This Refugee Developed Smart Jewelry To Protect Women From Assault
This Refugee Developed Smart Jewelry To Protect Women From Assault
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Clare O'Connor       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. c/o Roar for Good. Yasmine Mustafa, cofounder and CEO of Roar for Good, maker of Athena, a wearable tech device to keep users safe when out and about. It was by chance that Yasmine Mustafa made it to the U.S. at all. She was hiding in a bomb shelter during the Gulf War in Kuwait when she was plucked out by officials and delivered to the relative safety of Philadelphia. Her youngest brother had just been born there, giving her family the opportunity to seek citizenship in America. Once in the U.S., like so many immigrants , she was a stellar student, achieving top grades in high school. It wasn't until it came time to apply to college that Mustafa, who is Palestinian, learned she was undocumented. She asked her mother for her social security number to fill out forms and learned she didn't have one. While she watched her friends matriculate, she spent eight years working $5 an hour jobs under the table, including as a cleaner and a waitress. "That whole experience made me want to be an entrepreneur," she said."I worked for very unscrupulous people who knew I had no other way out and could ask me for anything. I thought, 'I want to be a nicer version of you. I'm going to work for myself.'" Mustafa's mother convinced a local community college to allow her to take a few credits a semester despite her immigration status. She got her associate's degree in six years, in between shifts, then finally made it to Temple University, where she completed a bachelor's degree. She built blog advertising company 123LinkIt.com, selling it to an advisor in late 2011. After receiving her U.S. citizenship a month later, Mustafa celebrated with a six-month trip across South America, including Colombia and Bolivia. It was there that she first felt some trepidation as a woman solo traveler -- and the first inkling she'd found her calling. In every hostel and on every bus she'd hear stories from women about attacks, muggings, or sexual assaults they'd endured. On her return to Philadelphia, she learned a neighbor had been dragged into an alley and raped on her way to her car. "When I read the news story, that's when Athena was born." c/o Roar for Good Athena comes in three colors and can be worn as jewelry, on a handbag, or in a pocket. Mustafa launched a startup, Roar for Good, and started a crowdfunding campaign to develop Athena back in 2015. A little larger than a quarter, the wearable is stylish and discreet, designed to be worn as jewelry, clipped onto a bag with its magnetic clasp, or tucked into a pocket. It's simple to operate, too: triple-press Athena's recessed button when you're in an unfamiliar place, walking alone at night, or otherwise feeling threatened and the device will send a text with your coordinates to pre-selected family or friends. Clicking a link in the SMS message allows your loved ones to track you on a map in real-time until you indicate you've reached your destination or feel safe. (See video below.) In the event of an emergency, press and hold Athena's button; it sounds a shrill alarm, simultaneously alerting your chosen contacts via smartphone that you're in danger. Roar for Good is working on integrating a feature that'd connect an Athena user with law enforcement in case of an assault or other incident, but it'd be strictly on an opt-in basis. As Mustafa explained: "Some folks don't want to involve the police." Athena's Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign has raised well over $300,000 to date from interested members of the public, and Roar for Good has secured further undisclosed investment. The company will start shipping its first units on March 30th. Initially, Mustafa saw parents of college kids ordering Athena to keep young women safe on campuses. Others bought the device for their elderly parents, as a replacement for pricey senior systems like Life Alert. In the past few months, though, Roar for Good has seen a new market emerge: those who feel unsafe in Trump's America. "Since the election, there have been a lot of Muslim women, and people who are LGBT, and people of color, who've been reaching out to try to get the device as soon as possible out of concern from street harassment," Mustafa said. While she and her team work to fill a growing list of orders, Roar for Good is looking to address the root cause of attacks against women and marginalized groups. As a B Corporation, the company invests 10% of its proceeds in nonprofits that provide empathy training to boys and young men. "Athena, pepper spray, and tasers are just kind of a band-aid on the problem of assaults," Mustafa said. "The underlying cause of violence, harassment, and attacks against women is a lack of empathy. If you teach young kids, especially boys, about consent and respect and healthy relationships, there's a direct correlation between decreasing attacks against women." Roar for Good is based in Philadelphia, where Mustafa first moved from Kuwait as a child. Her younger brother Mahmoud, who secured her safety years ago, works as a product developer on a team of five at the startup. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

c/o Roar for Good.

It was by chance that Yasmine Mustafa made it to the U.S. at all. She was hiding in a bomb shelter during the Gulf War in Kuwait when she was plucked out by officials and delivered to the relative safety of Philadelphia. Her youngest brother had just been born there, giving her family the opportunity to seek citizenship in America. Once in the U.S., like so many immigrants, she was a stellar student, achieving top grades in high school.

It wasn't until it came time to apply to college that Mustafa, who is Palestinian, learned she was undocumented. She asked her mother for her social security number to fill out forms and learned she didn't have one. While she watched her friends matriculate, she spent eight years working $5 an hour jobs under the table, including as a cleaner and a waitress.

"That whole experience made me want to be an entrepreneur," she said."I worked for very unscrupulous people who knew I had no other way out and could ask me for anything. I thought, 'I want to be a nicer version of you. I'm going to work for myself.'"

Mustafa's mother convinced a local community college to allow her to take a few credits a semester despite her immigration status. She got her associate's degree in six years, in between shifts, then finally made it to Temple University, where she completed a bachelor's degree.

She built blog advertising company 123LinkIt.com, selling it to an advisor in late 2011. After receiving her U.S. citizenship a month later, Mustafa celebrated with a six-month trip across South America, including Colombia and Bolivia.

It was there that she first felt some trepidation as a woman solo traveler -- and the first inkling she'd found her calling. In every hostel and on every bus she'd hear stories from women about attacks, muggings, or sexual assaults they'd endured.

On her return to Philadelphia, she learned a neighbor had been dragged into an alley and raped on her way to her car. "When I read the news story, that's when Athena was born."

c/o Roar for Good

Mustafa launched a startup, Roar for Good, and started a crowdfunding campaign to develop Athena back in 2015. A little larger than a quarter, the wearable is stylish and discreet, designed to be worn as jewelry, clipped onto a bag with its magnetic clasp, or tucked into a pocket.

It's simple to operate, too: triple-press Athena's recessed button when you're in an unfamiliar place, walking alone at night, or otherwise feeling threatened and the device will send a text with your coordinates to pre-selected family or friends. Clicking a link in the SMS message allows your loved ones to track you on a map in real-time until you indicate you've reached your destination or feel safe. (See video below.)

In the event of an emergency, press and hold Athena's button; it sounds a shrill alarm, simultaneously alerting your chosen contacts via smartphone that you're in danger.

Roar for Good is working on integrating a feature that'd connect an Athena user with law enforcement in case of an assault or other incident, but it'd be strictly on an opt-in basis. As Mustafa explained: "Some folks don't want to involve the police."

Athena's Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign has raised well over $300,000 to date from interested members of the public, and Roar for Good has secured further undisclosed investment. The company will start shipping its first units on March 30th.

Initially, Mustafa saw parents of college kids ordering Athena to keep young women safe on campuses. Others bought the device for their elderly parents, as a replacement for pricey senior systems like Life Alert.

In the past few months, though, Roar for Good has seen a new market emerge: those who feel unsafe in Trump's America.

"Since the election, there have been a lot of Muslim women, and people who are LGBT, and people of color, who've been reaching out to try to get the device as soon as possible out of concern from street harassment," Mustafa said.

While she and her team work to fill a growing list of orders, Roar for Good is looking to address the root cause of attacks against women and marginalized groups. As a B Corporation, the company invests 10% of its proceeds in nonprofits that provide empathy training to boys and young men.

"Athena, pepper spray, and tasers are just kind of a band-aid on the problem of assaults," Mustafa said. "The underlying cause of violence, harassment, and attacks against women is a lack of empathy. If you teach young kids, especially boys, about consent and respect and healthy relationships, there's a direct correlation between decreasing attacks against women."

Roar for Good is based in Philadelphia, where Mustafa first moved from Kuwait as a child. Her younger brother Mahmoud, who secured her safety years ago, works as a product developer on a team of five at the startup.

Follow me on Twitter and Facebook. Listen to my Forbes Podcasts show Million$ here and subscribe on iTunes.