Doctors remove extra limb from Indian girl with three legs
The baby born with THREE legs


These shocking pictures show a six-day-old baby who was born with a fully formed third leg in India.

Srilatha Kanchanapally, 25, delivered her daughter on March 21 at Jangaon district hospital, Telangana.

Two days later, they were taken to Niloufer hospital in Hyderabad - 87km (54 miles) away for surgery to remove the extra limb.

The relieved mother thanked 'God-sent' surgeons who successfully operated on her daughter. She is believed to be otherwise completely healthy.

Srilatha Kanchanapally, 25, delivered her daughter, on March 21 at Jangaon district hospital, Telangana, India

Two days later, they were taken to Niloufer hospital in Hyderabad - 87km (54 miles) away for surgery to remove the extra limb

Srilatha found out about the deformity during a routine scan in December.

Doctors, who reckon the limb was from a 'parasitic twin', said the baby will make a full recovering following the operation yesterday.

Dr K Srinivas, who helped with the complex delivery, said: 'The extra limb was protruding from the child's pelvis area can be surgically removed.

'Other than the extra limb, the baby was born with healthy vitals and she is in good health.'

Dr Ramesh Reddy, head of department of pediatric surgery at Niloufer Hospital, added: 'It's a rare occurrence, seen one in 100,000 births.

'It is a case of parasitic twin wherein technically a conjoint twin with regress having only rudimentary structures like a limb gets attached to the body of a well formed twin.

Surgeons successfully conducted the procedure to remove the extra limb on the girl on Friday at the state-run hospital

Dr K Srinivas, who helped with the complex delivery, said: 'The extra limb was protruding from the child's pelvis area can be surgically removed'

'It took about three hours to separate the extra limb successfully.'

Srilatha added: 'I am glad that we have been bless with such a beautiful baby.

'I was very confident that the doctors would be able to find a way to operate on the unwanted limb. They didn't disappoint us. They are God-sent to us.'

I was very confident that the doctors would be able to find a way to operate on the unwanted limb. They didn't disappoint us. They are God-sent to us Srilatha Kanchanapally, 25

Her husband, Sambaih, added: 'We are thankful to the doctors who operated on our baby. The feeling that she would grow up as a normal child fills my heart with joy.

'We were happy to have been blessed by a baby girl, but her deformity was a cause of worry for us.

'Doctors have removed the extra limb with ease. Initially, I was I was where would I arrange the funds for the treatment.

'But the doctors convinced me that I won't have to pay a single penny for it as the operation is happening at a government run hospital.'

This comes just a month after another Indian child was born with four legs and two penises.

The baby boy, who was yet to be named, was diagnosed with polymelia - a rare condition causing extra limbs.

His mother, Lalitamma, 23, declared him a 'gift from God' after she gave birth in Karnataka.