Neil Gorsuch vote delayed by Judiciary Committee
Neil Gorsuch vote delayed by Judiciary Committee
Hearings Neil Gorsuch vote delayed by Judiciary Committee By    Senate Democrats on the Judiciary Committee on Monday asked for and were granted a one-week delay on a vote to approve sending the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Senate floor. The 20-member committee had scheduled a noon business meeting to vote on whether to favorably send the nomination, but rules allow any senator to ask for a one-week delay. Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, announced a vote on President Trump's nominee will now happen April 3 at 10 a.m. The full Senate is then expected to immediately take up whether to make Gorsuch the 113th Supreme Court Justice. By Fox News’ count, at least 15 Democrats and Independents have publicly announced their opposition to Gorsuch. The GOP majority would need at least eight Democrats to vote with them in order to overcome the 60-vote threshold to allow a final vote. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has the option to invoke the so-called “nuclear option” -- eliminating the 60-vote cloture requirement and allowing the nominee to be confirmed with a simple majority.

Senate Democrats on the Judiciary Committee on Monday asked for and were granted a one-week delay on a vote to approve sending the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Senate floor.

The 20-member committee had scheduled a noon business meeting to vote on whether to favorably send the nomination, but rules allow any senator to ask for a one-week delay.

Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, announced a vote on President Trump's nominee will now happen April 3 at 10 a.m.

The full Senate is then expected to immediately take up whether to make Gorsuch the 113th Supreme Court Justice. By Fox News’ count, at least 15 Democrats and Independents have publicly announced their opposition to Gorsuch.

The GOP majority would need at least eight Democrats to vote with them in order to overcome the 60-vote threshold to allow a final vote.

Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has the option to invoke the so-called “nuclear option” -- eliminating the 60-vote cloture requirement and allowing the nominee to be confirmed with a simple majority.