Watch Shawn Mendes & Camila Cabello Crush a Cover of Ed Sheeran's 'Kiss Me'
Watch Shawn Mendes & Camila Cabello Crush a Cover of Ed Sheeran's 'Kiss Me'
Watch Shawn Mendes & Camila Cabello Crush a Cover of Ed Sheeran's 'Kiss Me'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Shawn Mendes and Camila Cabello may have just re-sparked those romance rumors -- and nailed an Ed Sheeran cover in the process. Mendes shared a black-and-white Instagram video of himself with Cabello on Monday morning (March 27) of the two singing Sheeran's track "Kiss Me," which Mendes said he recently found deep in his iPhone archives.Â Not surprisingly, their harmonies were spot on, and neither missed a note as Mendes strummed his acoustic guitar.  The "Mercy" singer couldn't help acknowledging their successful cover either: "I love the 'killed that' face we both make at the end," he wrote in the caption. Found this gem deep in the iPhone videos..lol i love the "killed that" face we both make at the end @camila_cabello A post shared by Shawn Mendes (@shawnmendes) on This isn't the first time Cabello and Mendes have collaborated: They teamed up for the catchy "I Know What You Did Last Summer"Â in November 2015.Â Around that time,Â Mendes and Cabello exchanged some flirty tweets that hadÂ fans curious (and hoping) that they were an item. Although rumorsÂ of a relationship eventuallyÂ fizzled -- with both being adamant about just being friends -- their romantic choice of Sheeran songÂ will likelyÂ bring thatÂ suspicion back. Whether Mendes and Cabello are an item, one artist he apparently can't get enough of is Sheeran. The day before posting the throwback "Kiss Me" video, he shared a video of himself singing Sheeran's track "Perfect." Watch it below: A post shared by Shawn Mendes (@shawnmendes) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Camila Cabello and Shawn Mendes attend the People's Choice Awards 2016 at Microsoft Theater on Jan. 6, 2016 in Los Angeles.

Shawn Mendes and Camila Cabello may have just re-sparked those romance rumors -- and nailed an Ed Sheeran cover in the process.

Mendes shared a black-and-white Instagram video of himself with Cabello on Monday morning (March 27) of the two singing Sheeran's + track "Kiss Me," which Mendes said he recently found deep in his iPhone archives.Â Not surprisingly, their harmonies were spot on, and neither missed a note as Mendes strummed his acoustic guitar.

The "Mercy" singer couldn't help acknowledging their successful cover either: "I love the 'killed that' face we both make at the end," he wrote in the caption.

Â Found this gem deep in the iPhone videos..lol i love the "killed that" face we both make at the end @camila_cabello A post shared by Shawn Mendes (@shawnmendes) on Mar 27, 2017 at 5:42am PDT



This isn't the first time Cabello and Mendes have collaborated: They teamed up for the catchy "I Know What You Did Last Summer"Â in November 2015.Â Around that time,Â Mendes and Cabello exchanged some flirty tweets that hadÂ fans curious (and hoping) that they were an item. Although rumorsÂ of a relationship eventuallyÂ fizzled -- with both being adamant about just being friends -- their romantic choice of Sheeran songÂ will likelyÂ bring thatÂ suspicion back.

Whether Mendes and Cabello are an item, one artist he apparently can't get enough of is Sheeran. The day before posting the throwback "Kiss Me" video, he shared a video of himself singing Sheeran's Divide track "Perfect." Watch it below: