Kodak Black Settles Lawsuit Against Florida Record Label That Signed Him at 16
Kodak Black Settles Lawsuit Against Florida Record Label That Signed Him at 16
Kodak Black has one less legal issue to worry about. According to , the 19-year-old rapper has settled a contract dispute with his former record label Dollaz and Dealz. Kodak filed a lawsuit against the label in late 2016, claiming he was taken advantage of at the time of the 2013 signing. The controversial Florida rapper argued he didn’t completely understand the terms of his contract, as he was only 16 years old and inked the deal without an attorney present. According to , he also argued he did not receive proper management under Dollaz and Dealz, and that he never received regular payments. Though Kodak eventually signed to Atlantic Records in 2015, he decided to sue his former label for breach of contract. Additionally, the rapper’s legal team pointed out that Dollaz and Dealz did not have the talent agency license required by Florida state law. Months after he filed the lawsuit, Kodak has reportedly settled out of court. The terms of the settlement have not been disclosed; however, reports the judge has thrown out the case and dismissed it “with prejudice,” meaning Kodak cannot sue the label for the same reasons at a later date. The rapper is currently behind bars after violating the terms of his probation , which stem from charges of false imprisonment, strong arm robbery, and fleeing or attempting to elude law enforcement. He’s also facing sexual assault charges in South Carolina .

Kodak Black has one less legal issue to worry about.

According to Bossip, the 19-year-old rapper has settled a contract dispute with his former record label Dollaz and Dealz. Kodak filed a lawsuit against the label in late 2016, claiming he was taken advantage of at the time of the 2013 signing. The controversial Florida rapper argued he didn’t completely understand the terms of his contract, as he was only 16 years old and inked the deal without an attorney present. According to Bossip, he also argued he did not receive proper management under Dollaz and Dealz, and that he never received regular payments.

Though Kodak eventually signed to Atlantic Records in 2015, he decided to sue his former label for breach of contract. Additionally, the rapper’s legal team pointed out that Dollaz and Dealz did not have the talent agency license required by Florida state law.

Months after he filed the lawsuit, Kodak has reportedly settled out of court. The terms of the settlement have not been disclosed; however, Bossip reports the judge has thrown out the case and dismissed it “with prejudice,” meaning Kodak cannot sue the label for the same reasons at a later date.

The rapper is currently behind bars after violating the terms of his probation, which stem from charges of false imprisonment, strong arm robbery, and fleeing or attempting to elude law enforcement. He’s also facing sexual assault charges in South Carolina.