Down, Boy! Val Kilmer Unabashedly Creeps on Cate Blanchett
Down, Boy! Val Kilmer Unabashedly Creeps on Cate Blanchett
As we’ve mentioned, Val Kilmer ’s Twitter is a treasure trove of bizarre stories about other celebrities, but his new one about Cate Blanchett is creeper to the max. Iceman, who we are glad to see healthy again after his mystery illness , has been posting about the two-time Academy Award winner — a married mom of four — for days now. It started with a post about how the actor, 57, once “flew all the way to Australia just to talk to” the blonde, 47. However, her playwright husband, Andrew Upton, “met me first. Or, instead, I guess, to be accurate.” Once I flew all the way to Australia just to talk to Cate Blanchett. Her husband met me first. Or, instead, I guess, to be accurate. pic.twitter.com/xSoYxRi0jh — Val Kilmer (@valkilmer) March 24, 2017 The actor and artist (who also sells his artwork through his social media sites) added a selfie with the post. Minutes later, he added, “And recently I’ve had 2 dreams with #CateBlanchett in them. Her husband wasn’t in either of them.” That was enough of a statement, really, but he continued. First he retweeted someone’s post naming Blanchett her #WCW (Woman Crush Wednesday). It’s a GIF of Cate saying, “It’s always yes.” #CateBlanchett for #WCW ??? #ItsAlwaysYes ????????????❤ Happy Day girls ???????? @Ms_AlexVause_  @PlanetLemon  @Jana7380  @PeachesBeaches5  @MissVausePrepon  pic.twitter.com/fyhLeqXWjG — Candi Girl♡ (@slatscan) March 15, 2017 The next day, Kilmer was thinking about Cate. He explained that she has a special kind of magic, saying, “She’s just as amazing in person. Some super stars aren’t-Some superstars don’t do a thing to ya in person-Cate is so real it’s almost unreal.” She's just as amazing in person. Some super stars aren't-Some superstars don't do a thing to ya in person-Cate is so real it's almost unreal — Val Kilmer (@valkilmer) March 25, 2017 If you thought that would have been the period at the end of the sentence, you are wrong. He posted again to say that he once did a cameo “just to hang w/ #cateblanchett who pickd up a shovel in our sc. I was so dazzled by HOW she picked it up I forgot my line.” Once I did a cameo just to hang w/ #cateblanchett who pickd up a shovel in our sc. I was so dazzled by HOW she picked it up I forgot my line — Val Kilmer (@valkilmer) March 25, 2017 An hour later, he posted this photo of the megatalent. “I mean even if she couldnt act you know what I mean?” he gushed. After taking five to pine over Jessica Chastain, who he has a lot of “love, love, love, love, love” for… And happy birthday to #JessicaChastain whom I also love love love love love. And a #Julliard alum as well. — Val Kilmer (@valkilmer) March 26, 2017 …it was back to posting about Cate on Sunday. He said his posts were written with the “highest respect and admiration” for the Australian star (and the same can be said about his posts about other celebrities). “She’s a friend of mine and I’ve met her husband thru the years and we’ve all gotten along just fine. Anyone who thinks I need to curb my enthusiasm for a great rare artist doesn’t understand how difficult the job is and how we artist count on the respect of our peers. She will Back up every word I say n love that I say I love her. I would love an actor I didn’t even enjoy if he flew the world to talk about a role.” That’s where it ended. For now. In fact, on Monday morning, he went back and deleted some of his tweets after apparently regretting at least some of what he posted. Kilmer and Blanchett have appeared in two of the same movies: 2003’s and 2017’s , which came out earlier this month. They were photographed together in 2007 at a screening of , one of her starring vehicles. FTR, she seemed happy to see him and threw her arms around him for photos. Kilmer has become one of our favorite celebrity dirt dishers as of late. Last week, we did a piece on his bizarre, star-studded stories. In addition to Cate, he’s posted anecdotes about Angelina Jolie, 50 Cent, Lou Reed, Brigitte Bardot, and Carly Simon, to name a few. However, this may be his most strangest yet. What Is Mariah Carey’s Real Age? We Investigate on Her 48th (or 47th?) Birthday Darius Rucker Gives Us the Feels as South Carolina Makes First NCAA Tournament Final Four Happy 73rd Birthday, Diana Ross

As we’ve mentioned, Val Kilmer’s Twitter is a treasure trove of bizarre stories about other celebrities, but his new one about Cate Blanchett is creeper to the max.

Iceman, who we are glad to see healthy again after his mystery illness, has been posting about the two-time Academy Award winner — a married mom of four — for days now. It started with a post about how the Top Gun actor, 57, once “flew all the way to Australia just to talk to” the blonde, 47. However, her playwright husband, Andrew Upton, “met me first. Or, instead, I guess, to be accurate.”

Once I flew all the way to Australia just to talk to Cate Blanchett. Her husband met me first. Or, instead, I guess, to be accurate. pic.twitter.com/xSoYxRi0jh — Val Kilmer (@valkilmer) March 24, 2017





The actor and artist (who also sells his artwork through his social media sites) added a selfie with the post. Minutes later, he added, “And recently I’ve had 2 dreams with #CateBlanchett in them. Her husband wasn’t in either of them.”

(Twitter) More

That was enough of a statement, really, but he continued. First he retweeted someone’s post naming Blanchett her #WCW (Woman Crush Wednesday). It’s a GIF of Cate saying, “It’s always yes.”





The next day, Kilmer was still thinking about Cate. He explained that she has a special kind of magic, saying, “She’s just as amazing in person. Some super stars aren’t-Some superstars don’t do a thing to ya in person-Cate is so real it’s almost unreal.”

She's just as amazing in person. Some super stars aren't-Some superstars don't do a thing to ya in person-Cate is so real it's almost unreal — Val Kilmer (@valkilmer) March 25, 2017





If you thought that would have been the period at the end of the sentence, you are wrong. He posted again to say that he once did a cameo “just to hang w/ #cateblanchett who pickd up a shovel in our sc. I was so dazzled by HOW she picked it up I forgot my line.”

Once I did a cameo just to hang w/ #cateblanchett who pickd up a shovel in our sc. I was so dazzled by HOW she picked it up I forgot my line — Val Kilmer (@valkilmer) March 25, 2017





An hour later, he posted this photo of the megatalent. “I mean even if she couldnt act you know what I mean?” he gushed.

View photos (Twitter) More

After taking five to pine over Jessica Chastain, who he has a lot of “love, love, love, love, love” for…

And happy birthday to #JessicaChastain whom I also love love love love love. And a #Julliard alum as well. — Val Kilmer (@valkilmer) March 26, 2017





…it was back to posting about Cate on Sunday. He said his posts were written with the “highest respect and admiration” for the Australian star (and the same can be said about his posts about other celebrities). “She’s a friend of mine and I’ve met her husband thru the years and we’ve all gotten along just fine. Anyone who thinks I need to curb my enthusiasm for a great rare artist doesn’t understand how difficult the job is and how we artist count on the respect of our peers. She will Back up every word I say n love that I say I love her. I would love an actor I didn’t even enjoy if he flew the world to talk about a role.”

(Twitter) More

(Twitter) More

Read More