UK businesses call on Government to embrace low-carbon future and enact climate change legislation
UK businesses call on Government to embrace low-carbon future and enact climate change legislation
A group of businesses has offered to help the Government come up with a new plan to fight climate change amid fears that the UK is wavering in its commitment. According to the landmark 2008 Climate Change Act, Ministers are legally required to spell out how the UK will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions over the next few years. But, despite signing up to a bold new target to reduce emissions by 57 per cent by 2030 last year, the Government has repeatedly delayed saying how this will actually be achieved – in an apparent breach of the law. Read more Government facing legal action over failure to fight climate change UK carbon emissions at same level as when first petrol car invented Brexit could 'derail' EU attempts to fight climate change Climate change is altering global air currents, scientists warn Now 30 businesses, including Kingfisher, the owner of B&Q, and engineering giant Arup, have written to Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Greg Clark – responsible for climate change after Theresa May abolished the dedicated Cabinet post – urging him to commit to an ambitious energy efficiency drive as part of the forthcoming Clean Power Plan. The letter, which was coordinated by environmental campaign group WWF, argued this was one of the “most cost-effective” ways of meeting the UK’s climate targets and pointed to a string of other benefits. Better insulated homes would mean fewer people living in fuel poverty and reduce rates of illness associated with living in a cold house, saving the NHS money, the businesses said. Recent research has also showed that a nationwide push to improve the energy efficiency of homes could create up to 108,000 jobs a year, they added.   World 'abandoning coal in dramatic style raising climate change hopes' “As companies and trade bodies active in the energy efficiency, construction and heat markets we urge you to use the Clean Growth Plan to address the significant gap in policy to decarbonise heat for buildings,” the letter said. “We offer our support and expertise as a group of organisations that can play a crucial role in delivering the emissions cuts the UK needs to achieve, in addition to creating jobs and boosting economic productivity.” The companies said the Government should also “grasp the opportunities offered by existing technologies and support the growth of heat pumps and district heating to drive down carbon emissions”. “In addition, there must be a concerted period of research and testing of heat decarbonisation options for the UK’s long-term needs,” they said in the letter. The worst countries in the world for air pollution deaths               The worst countries in the world for air pollution deaths    Ukraine       Bulgaria    Rex Features     Belarus       Russia       Armenia       Bosnia and Herzegovina    REUTERS     Georgia       Hungary    DigitalGlobe     China       Moldova    Under a European Union directive, all new buildings must be “nearly zero energy” by 2020 and the companies said the UK must ensure it retains this target after Brexit. “As the UK goes through the process of leaving the EU, these standards or higher must be incorporated into UK law. This would ensure that we do not face costly retrofit in future years and create certainty for industry,” the letter said. Taking such measures would be “good for the environment and good for the British economy”, it concluded. Chris Jofeh, director of global buildings retrofit at Arup, said reducing greenhouse gas emissions could be good for consumers and the UK as a whole as well as the environment. “Decarbonising our buildings, done properly, will stimulate the economy, increase employment, reduce energy bills, enhance the UK’s energy security, and help the UK to honour its climate commitments,” he said. “This is an opportunity for all of us to shape a better world for future generations.” That point was echoed by Graham Cash, chief executive of BAM Construct UK. “Government policy is important to drive UK plc towards a lower carbon future,” he said. “We need clear signals and a strong commitment to get everyone moving in the same direction. The bottom line is that a low-carbon economy is good for business.” 10 photographs to show to anyone who doesn't believe in climate change               10 photographs to show to anyone who doesn't believe in climate change       A group of emperor penguins face a crack in the sea ice, near McMurdo Station, Antarctica   Kira Morris        Amid a flood in Islampur, Jamalpur, Bangladesh, a woman on a raft searches for somewhere dry to take shelter. Bangladesh is one of the most vulnerable places in the world to sea level rise, which is expected to make tens of millions of people homeless by 2050.   Probal Rashid        Hanna Petursdottir examines a cave inside the Svinafellsjokull glacier in Iceland, which she said had been growing rapidly. Since 2000, the size of glaciers on Iceland has reduced by 12 per cent.   Tom Schifanella        Floods destroyed eight bridges and ruined crops such as wheat, maize and peas in the Karimabad valley in northern Pakistan, a mountainous region with many glaciers. In many parts of the world, glaciers have been in retreat, creating dangerously large lakes that can cause devastating flooding when the banks break. Climate change can also increase rainfall in some areas, while bringing drought to others.   Hira Ali        Smoke – filled with the carbon that is driving climate change – drifts across a field in Colombia.   Sandra Rondon        A river once flowed along the depression in the dry earth of this part of Bangladesh, but it has disappeared amid rising temperatures.   Abrar Hossain        Sindh province in Pakistan has experienced a grim mix of two consequences of climate change.
“Because of climate change either we have floods or not enough water to irrigate our crop and feed our animals,” says the photographer. “Picture clearly indicates that the extreme drought makes wide cracks in clay. Crops are very difficult to grow.”   Rizwan Dharejo        A shepherd moves his herd as he looks for green pasture near the village of Sirohi in Rajasthan, northern India.
The region has been badly affected by heatwaves and drought, making local people nervous about further predicted increases in temperature.   Riddhima Singh Bhati        A factory in China is shrouded by a haze of air pollution. The World Health Organisation has warned such pollution, much of which is from the fossil fuels that cause climate change, is a “public health emergency”.   Leung Ka Wa        Water levels in reservoirs, like this one in Gers, France, have been getting perilously low in areas across the world affected by drought, forcing authorities to introduce water restrictions.   Mahtuf Ikhsan  The Clean Power Plan, also known as the Emissions Reduction Plan, was supposed to be published last year. In January, the Climate Change Minister Nick Hurd said it would be ready by the end of March, but the Government later refused to stand by this deadline . ClientEarth, a group of environmental legal activists, has threatened to sue the Government for breaking its own laws if the delay continues. Gareth Redmond-King, head of energy and climate change at WWF, said: “The UK has a world-leading Climate Change Act, but the UK Government isn’t delivering the robust and ambitious plan for reducing emissions that we need. “Climate change is not waiting; it is already having an impact today – from extreme weather events, to loss of wildlife and an increasingly unstable world. “The low-carbon economy represents a huge opportunity for UK businesses, so it’s no wonder that they’re desperately looking for longer term clarity that will enable them to invest in the technologies that we know can help to tackle climate change. “The UK Government must heed their call and build these measures into their Clean Growth Plan; doing so will be good for the environment and good for the British economy.” The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said in a statement: “Our emissions reduction plan will set out how we will reduce emissions through the 2020s across all sectors of the economy. “The Government recognises that better energy efficiency can help the transition to a low-carbon economy and significantly improve quality of life. We’re committed to tackling fuel poverty and our current reforms will help insulate one million homes across Britain by 2020.” More about: climate change Global Warming greenhouse gases energy efficiency WWF Emissions Reduction Plan Clean Power Plan Comments

A group of businesses has offered to help the Government come up with a new plan to fight climate change amid fears that the UK is wavering in its commitment.

According to the landmark 2008 Climate Change Act, Ministers are legally required to spell out how the UK will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions over the next few years.

But, despite signing up to a bold new target to reduce emissions by 57 per cent by 2030 last year, the Government has repeatedly delayed saying how this will actually be achieved – in an apparent breach of the law.

Now 30 businesses, including Kingfisher, the owner of B&Q, and engineering giant Arup, have written to Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Greg Clark – responsible for climate change after Theresa May abolished the dedicated Cabinet post – urging him to commit to an ambitious energy efficiency drive as part of the forthcoming Clean Power Plan.

The letter, which was coordinated by environmental campaign group WWF, argued this was one of the “most cost-effective” ways of meeting the UK’s climate targets and pointed to a string of other benefits.

Better insulated homes would mean fewer people living in fuel poverty and reduce rates of illness associated with living in a cold house, saving the NHS money, the businesses said.

Recent research has also showed that a nationwide push to improve the energy efficiency of homes could create up to 108,000 jobs a year, they added.

“As companies and trade bodies active in the energy efficiency, construction and heat markets we urge you to use the Clean Growth Plan to address the significant gap in policy to decarbonise heat for buildings,” the letter said.

“We offer our support and expertise as a group of organisations that can play a crucial role in delivering the emissions cuts the UK needs to achieve, in addition to creating jobs and boosting economic productivity.”

The companies said the Government should also “grasp the opportunities offered by existing technologies and support the growth of heat pumps and district heating to drive down carbon emissions”.

“In addition, there must be a concerted period of research and testing of heat decarbonisation options for the UK’s long-term needs,” they said in the letter.

The worst countries in the world for air pollution deaths







10 show all The worst countries in the world for air pollution deaths

















1/10 Ukraine

2/10 Bulgaria Rex Features

3/10 Belarus

4/10 Russia

5/10 Armenia

6/10 Bosnia and Herzegovina REUTERS

7/10 Georgia

8/10 Hungary DigitalGlobe

9/10 China

10/10 Moldova

Under a European Union directive, all new buildings must be “nearly zero energy” by 2020 and the companies said the UK must ensure it retains this target after Brexit.

“As the UK goes through the process of leaving the EU, these standards or higher must be incorporated into UK law. This would ensure that we do not face costly retrofit in future years and create certainty for industry,” the letter said.

Taking such measures would be “good for the environment and good for the British economy”, it concluded.

Chris Jofeh, director of global buildings retrofit at Arup, said reducing greenhouse gas emissions could be good for consumers and the UK as a whole as well as the environment.

“Decarbonising our buildings, done properly, will stimulate the economy, increase employment, reduce energy bills, enhance the UK’s energy security, and help the UK to honour its climate commitments,” he said.

“This is an opportunity for all of us to shape a better world for future generations.”

That point was echoed by Graham Cash, chief executive of BAM Construct UK.

“Government policy is important to drive UK plc towards a lower carbon future,” he said.

“We need clear signals and a strong commitment to get everyone moving in the same direction. The bottom line is that a low-carbon economy is good for business.”

10 photographs to show to anyone who doesn't believe in climate change







10 show all 10 photographs to show to anyone who doesn't believe in climate change

















1/10 A group of emperor penguins face a crack in the sea ice, near McMurdo Station, Antarctica Kira Morris

2/10 Amid a flood in Islampur, Jamalpur, Bangladesh, a woman on a raft searches for somewhere dry to take shelter. Bangladesh is one of the most vulnerable places in the world to sea level rise, which is expected to make tens of millions of people homeless by 2050. Probal Rashid

3/10 Hanna Petursdottir examines a cave inside the Svinafellsjokull glacier in Iceland, which she said had been growing rapidly. Since 2000, the size of glaciers on Iceland has reduced by 12 per cent. Tom Schifanella

4/10 Floods destroyed eight bridges and ruined crops such as wheat, maize and peas in the Karimabad valley in northern Pakistan, a mountainous region with many glaciers. In many parts of the world, glaciers have been in retreat, creating dangerously large lakes that can cause devastating flooding when the banks break. Climate change can also increase rainfall in some areas, while bringing drought to others. Hira Ali

5/10 Smoke – filled with the carbon that is driving climate change – drifts across a field in Colombia. Sandra Rondon

6/10 A river once flowed along the depression in the dry earth of this part of Bangladesh, but it has disappeared amid rising temperatures. Abrar Hossain

7/10 Sindh province in Pakistan has experienced a grim mix of two consequences of climate change. “Because of climate change either we have floods or not enough water to irrigate our crop and feed our animals,” says the photographer. “Picture clearly indicates that the extreme drought makes wide cracks in clay. Crops are very difficult to grow.” Rizwan Dharejo

8/10 A shepherd moves his herd as he looks for green pasture near the village of Sirohi in Rajasthan, northern India. The region has been badly affected by heatwaves and drought, making local people nervous about further predicted increases in temperature. Riddhima Singh Bhati

9/10 A factory in China is shrouded by a haze of air pollution. The World Health Organisation has warned such pollution, much of which is from the fossil fuels that cause climate change, is a “public health emergency”. Leung Ka Wa

10/10 Water levels in reservoirs, like this one in Gers, France, have been getting perilously low in areas across the world affected by drought, forcing authorities to introduce water restrictions. Mahtuf Ikhsan

The Clean Power Plan, also known as the Emissions Reduction Plan, was supposed to be published last year.

In January, the Climate Change Minister Nick Hurd said it would be ready by the end of March, but the Government later refused to stand by this deadline.

ClientEarth, a group of environmental legal activists, has threatened to sue the Government for breaking its own laws if the delay continues.

Gareth Redmond-King, head of energy and climate change at WWF, said: “The UK has a world-leading Climate Change Act, but the UK Government isn’t delivering the robust and ambitious plan for reducing emissions that we need.

“Climate change is not waiting; it is already having an impact today – from extreme weather events, to loss of wildlife and an increasingly unstable world.

“The low-carbon economy represents a huge opportunity for UK businesses, so it’s no wonder that they’re desperately looking for longer term clarity that will enable them to invest in the technologies that we know can help to tackle climate change.

“The UK Government must heed their call and build these measures into their Clean Growth Plan; doing so will be good for the environment and good for the British economy.”

The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said in a statement: “Our emissions reduction plan will set out how we will reduce emissions through the 2020s across all sectors of the economy.

“The Government recognises that better energy efficiency can help the transition to a low-carbon economy and significantly improve quality of life. We’re committed to tackling fuel poverty and our current reforms will help insulate one million homes across Britain by 2020.”