Barry Jenkins’s ‘The Underground Railroad’ in the Works at Amazon
Barry Jenkins’s ‘The Underground Railroad’ in the Works at Amazon
Barry Jenkins, the writer and director of “Moonlight,” named best picture at last month’s Academy Awards, is teaming again with that film’s producers for a new television series for Amazon. “The Underground Railroad” will be an adaptation of the acclaimed Colson Whitehead novel of the same title, winner of the 2016 National Book Award for fiction. As with “Moonlight,” adapted from an original script by the playwright Tarell Alvin McCraney, Mr. Jenkins will write and direct the limited series, which will be executive produced by Pastel, a company co-founded by Mr. Jenkins, and Brad Pitt’s Plan B Entertainment. The project has been in the works for months but Amazon announced on Monday that it had signed on to develop the series. Get expert TV and movie recommendations from the Watching newsletter The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy “Preserving the sweep and grandeur of a story like this requires bold, innovative thinking,” Mr. Jenkins said in a statement. “In Amazon we’ve found a partner whose reverence for storytelling and freeness of form is wholly in line with our vision.” Mr. Whitehead’s novel combines historical sweep with surreal details, tracking a young slave who escapes from bondage via an actual railroad. It was a best seller and was one of the most celebrated books of 2016. The underground railroad already figures in one series: “ Underground,” a generally well-received drama for WGN America that began its second season this month. Advertisement It is unclear when “The Underground Railroad” would debut on Amazon or how many episodes it would include. The series has not officially been given the green light, though the high-profile nature of the title and figures involved make that seem likely. If it is approved, the show would skip Amazon’s usual pilot process and go straight to series. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2017, on Page C3 of the with the headline: ‘Underground Railroad’ Coming to Amazon.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

Barry Jenkins, the writer and director of “Moonlight,” named best picture at last month’s Academy Awards, is teaming again with that film’s producers for a new television series for Amazon.

“The Underground Railroad” will be an adaptation of the acclaimed Colson Whitehead novel of the same title, winner of the 2016 National Book Award for fiction. As with “Moonlight,” adapted from an original script by the playwright Tarell Alvin McCraney, Mr. Jenkins will write and direct the limited series, which will be executive produced by Pastel, a company co-founded by Mr. Jenkins, and Brad Pitt’s Plan B Entertainment.

The project has been in the works for months but Amazon announced on Monday that it had signed on to develop the series.

Get expert TV and movie recommendations from the Watching newsletter The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“Preserving the sweep and grandeur of a story like this requires bold, innovative thinking,” Mr. Jenkins said in a statement. “In Amazon we’ve found a partner whose reverence for storytelling and freeness of form is wholly in line with our vision.”

Mr. Whitehead’s novel combines historical sweep with surreal details, tracking a young slave who escapes from bondage via an actual railroad. It was a best seller and was one of the most celebrated books of 2016.

The underground railroad already figures in one series: “Underground,” a generally well-received drama for WGN America that began its second season this month.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is unclear when “The Underground Railroad” would debut on Amazon or how many episodes it would include. The series has not officially been given the green light, though the high-profile nature of the title and figures involved make that seem likely. If it is approved, the show would skip Amazon’s usual pilot process and go straight to series.