ISIS sex slave gets husband killed in drone strike
ISIS sex slave gets the ultimate revenge


An ISIS sex slave has revealed how she had her jihadist tormentor killed in an air strike and then fled after two years of being 'treated like an animal.'

Farida, 27, is currently living in a refugee camp near Erbil after being held captive in ISIS-held Mosul for two years.

Iraqi forces launched the operation to retake Mosul, the country's second city, in October, retaking its eastern side before setting their sights on its smaller but more densely-populated west.

Farida, 27, is currently living in a refugee camp near Erbil after being held captive in Mosul

Farida hatched a plan with an ISIS terrorist's wife to take him out with an air strike in Mosul

Farida was kept as a prisoner in Mosul before finally escaping after two years of hell.

'An ISIS fighter kept me as a slave', she said. 'But he still had a wife. She also wanted to flee.'

Working together, the two women hatched a plan to kill the terrorist, managing to communicate with the Iraqi Army to describe the exact position of his car so an air strike could take him out.

She said: 'We hid for eight days, so people thought we had died in the car too. Only then did we escape.'

She has been reunited in the refugee camp with her husband, who was on police duty in another part of the country when she was abducted.

'I tried to keep my honour, but I have not succeeded. They have abused and beaten me, treated me like an animal. I have barely words to describe what happened to me', she added.

Miyasa Hodor revealed how she was forced by ISIS to whip countless 'screaming' women because they did not wear a veil or socks

'For adultery, you would be stoned to death. For stealing, they cut off your hand. And for not wearing the veil, whipping,' she told Sky News

CHILDREN CUTTING HEADS OFF DOLLS A camp official told Sky News he saw some children, aged six or seven, cutting the head off a doll at Chamakor camp. 'One of them had a knife and started beheading it, shouting 'Allahu Akhbar', he said. 'There is manhood, they told me, in cutting the head off.' Global head of UNICEF, Anthony Lake, added: 'If we are not educating the heads and healing the hearts of children who are cutting off the heads of mud dolls, then in the next generation we're going to replicate the same conflicts. 'It breaks my heart. What we have to do is provide the quiet miracle of a normal life.'

In another harrowing account, Waheda Musa, 32, and her son Matu, seven, have been reunited with their family for the first time in two-and-a-half-years.

After leaving Mosul they managed to escape to the safety of Dohuk, in northern Iraq.

Recalling her ordeal in Mosul, she said: 'They tormented my son, trained him to use weapons and as punishment imprisoned him in cages.'

They were living in a town close to Sinjar, in northern Iraq, and home to thousands of Yazidis [who are predominantly ethnically Kurdish and viewed by ISIS as as devil-worshippers), when it was captured by the terror group in 2014.

Following that, Waheda was taken as a sex slave by ISIS.

'They have sold me five times. I was exhibited as if I were at a cattle market, first to men from Saudi Arabia, later to Jordanian fighters', she said.

She eventually managed to win the trust of a Tunisian female fighter who paid to traffic her out the area.

'I can hardly believe my son and I are really alive', she said.

The Iraqi Observatory for Human Rights said 197 children had been taken hostage by the terror group near the Al-Nuri mosque

ISIS have reportedly kidnapped almost 200 children to use as human shields in Mosul

Iraqi forces launched the operation to retake Mosul, the country's second city, in October, retaking its eastern side before setting their sights on its smaller but more densely-populated west

307 CIVILIANS KILLED IN BOOBY TRAPS At least 307 civilians have been killed and 273 wounded in western Mosul since Feb 17 as Islamic State fighters herd people into booby-trapped buildings as human shields and fires on those who flee, the United Nations human rights chief said on Tuesday. This is an enemy that ruthlessly exploits civilians to serve its own ends, and clearly has not even the faintest qualm about deliberately placing them in danger,' U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein said in a statement. 'It is vital that the Iraqi Security Forces and their Coalition partners avoid this trap,' he said, while calling for them to conduct transparent investigations into deadly incidents involving their forces.

Elsewhere Miyasa Hodor, who is believed to have been imprisoned in Mosul two years ago, admitted the terror group coerced her into torturing more than 50 women a day.

She gave a shocking account of the first time she was forced to flog another woman, claiming a militant stood behind her and threatened to whip her when she refused.

She told Sky News: 'For adultery, you would be stoned to death. For stealing, they cut off your hand. And for not wearing the veil, whipping.

'I had no training. My duty was to punish those who weren't wearing gloves or socks or the veil. They brought us about 50 people a day.'

The first time they told me 'you have to do it'. 'I said 'I cannot'. They said, 'yes you can, you have to'.'

The harrowing accounts come as the Iraqi Observatory for Human Rights revealed 197 children had been taken hostage by the terror group near the Al-Nuri mosque where ISIS declared its caliphate nearly three years ago.

At the same time, Iraqi forces renewed their offensive against ISIS in Mosul's Old City and killed 10 ISIS chiefs.

The fresh round of air bombings came after 'tragic' US-led bombing raids killed 200 civilians in a single district.

Rescuers were still pulling the bodies of women and children from rubble in the Jadideh neighbourhood on Saturday, more than a week after the US-led coalition bombs landed on March 17.

US officials have not confirmed there were civilian casualties but have opened an investigation.

A local coming out of his house which was just hit by ISIS mortar fire in Mosul, Iraq

Iraqi forces have been operating in the area of the Old City for several weeks, but they have faced tough resistance and progress in the area has been slow.

Since launching their assault on the western sector, Iraqi forces have taken several districts and key buildings including the headquarters of Nineveh province's regional government and a railway station.

The fall of Mosul, Iraq's second city, would be a major setback for ISIS following months of losses in Iraq and neighbouring Syria. The city also holds huge symbolic significance for the terror group.

In neighbouring Syria, three separate forces are advancing on the city of Raqqa, the main Syrian city under ISIS control.