Having Grabbed A Rich Haul Of 73 Medals At The Winter Games, India's Para-Athletes Felicitated After Returning Home
India's Para-Athletes Felicitated After Having Grabbed 73 Medals At The Winter Games
Having Grabbed A Rich Haul Of 73 Medals At The Winter Games, India's Para-Athletes Felicitated After Returning Home The Indian contingent that returned home with a rich haul of in Austria was felicitated in a glittering ceremony here on Monday. A total of 2600 athletes from over 105 countries participated at the quadrennial event where India won 37 gold, 10 silver and 26 bronze medals. In attendance were five-time women's boxing world champion MC Mary Kom, ace shooter Heena Sidhu and former World No 1 shuttler Saina Nehwal who wished the athletes on their achievements. The Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national sports federation for the sportspersons with intellectual disabilities had organised the reception in association with nutrition company Herbalife for the 89 athletes who participated in the event held between March 18-24. The smile on their face is magical! So proud of them. Team #India bagged a record 73 medals at the @SpecialOlympics Winter Games in Austria pic.twitter.com/vveNleQRks Mary Kom recalled her own journey and got emotional while praising the contingent for their effort. "I am so proud of you guys. Congratulations. We always love you," she said. "You all know my journey. You might have seen the movie (Mary Kom biopic). The way I fought through the struggles, you guys have done the same today and the entire nation recognises you. The nation is proud of you. This is the beginning and in future I hope you will get more recognition. My love and best wishes are always with you. Keep fighting hard." Heena felt that the Indian contingent's performance was an inspiration for her. "Being an athlete is very tough. It is full of ups and down. Lot of hard work, self-doubt, fighting with the world and sometimes yourself. Your journey has been much more difficult than ours. It's a proud moment for me to see any other athlete, across sports, across nations fighting their way through the tough times. It is inspiring for everyone," she said. "I am also going through a rough patch, Saina has been going through with her knee surgery and all. So, we are always looking for a source of inspiration and you guys have given us that today" Saina, who took time out from her busy training schedule as she prepares for the India Open Superseries that starts Wednesday, said it was refreshing to be in their company and felt inspired to do well in her career too. "I feel fresh after coming here today. I was continuously training for the Indian Open but seeing you today has given me the strength that if you can so should I. We being a normal athlete cannot even think of winning 73 medals but you guys have done it. It's an emotional day but a day to celebrate for us," she said, drawing loud cheers.

The Indian contingent that returned home with a rich haul of 73 medals from the 2017 Special Olympics Winter Games in Austria was felicitated in a glittering ceremony here on Monday.

twitter/toi sports

A total of 2600 athletes from over 105 countries participated at the quadrennial event where India won 37 gold, 10 silver and 26 bronze medals. In attendance were five-time women's boxing world champion MC Mary Kom, ace shooter Heena Sidhu and former World No 1 shuttler Saina Nehwal who wished the athletes on their achievements.

The Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national sports federation for the sportspersons with intellectual disabilities had organised the reception in association with nutrition company Herbalife for the 89 athletes who participated in the event held between March 18-24.

The smile on their face is magical! So proud of them. Team #India bagged a record 73 medals at the @SpecialOlympics Winter Games in Austria pic.twitter.com/vveNleQRks — Vijay Goel (@VijayGoelBJP) March 27, 2017

Mary Kom recalled her own journey and got emotional while praising the contingent for their effort. "I am so proud of you guys. Congratulations. We always love you," she said. "You all know my journey. You might have seen the movie (Mary Kom biopic). The way I fought through the struggles, you guys have done the same today and the entire nation recognises you. The nation is proud of you. This is the beginning and in future I hope you will get more recognition. My love and best wishes are always with you. Keep fighting hard."

Heena felt that the Indian contingent's performance was an inspiration for her. "Being an athlete is very tough. It is full of ups and down. Lot of hard work, self-doubt, fighting with the world and sometimes yourself. Your journey has been much more difficult than ours.

It's a proud moment for me to see any other athlete, across sports, across nations fighting their way through the tough times. It is inspiring for everyone," she said. "I am also going through a rough patch, Saina has been going through with her knee surgery and all. So, we are always looking for a source of inspiration and you guys have given us that today"

ap

Saina, who took time out from her busy training schedule as she prepares for the India Open Superseries that starts Wednesday, said it was refreshing to be in their company and felt inspired to do well in her career too.

"I feel fresh after coming here today. I was continuously training for the Indian Open but seeing you today has given me the strength that if you can so should I. We being a normal athlete cannot even think of winning 73 medals but you guys have done it. It's an emotional day but a day to celebrate for us," she said, drawing loud cheers.

Don't Miss 352 SHARES 2.9 K SHARES 15.9 K SHARES 12.6 K SHARES 9.5 K SHARES

Saina then reiterated the importance of developing sporting culture and also expressed her disappointment at India not being able to produce athletes in proportion to its population. Nevertheless, she is happy with the change in attitude in the past few years that has seen the government and corporates taking more efforts to support the budding athletes.

"We are all very special because there aren't too many sportspersons in India. I feel very sad about it. Population wise we are second only to China but when it comes to sports we are very far at the back," she said. "10-15 years ago, we weren't getting the support like we get today. So, I would like to thank the government for that. Corporates are also coming forward now. What else do we need?"

twitter/pib india

Saina lso had a message for the upcoming generation: "Becoming an engineer or doctor is fine but being a sportsperson is equally important."

Speaking at the occasion, Air Marshal, Denzil Keelor, CEO of Special Olympics Bharat said, "These (special) children participating do not want any money. They want to be treated fairly and accepted to be the way they are. They want respect and nothing else. Respect them for their abilities, not disabilities."

Originally Published In The Times Of India