Hate Crimes Against Africans Continue As Another Man Thrashed Badly By A Mob In Greater Noida
Hate Crimes Against Africans Continue As Another Man Thrashed Badly By A Mob In Greater Noida
Hate Crimes Against Africans Continue As Another Man Thrashed Badly By A Mob In Greater Noida A video of an African man being beaten up by Indians at Ansal Plaza mall in Greater Noida is making rounds on the internet. The man can be seen lying on the floor being beaten by around 18-20 Indians using steel dustbins. The brawl reportedly took place for no reason. The video, uploaded by Association Of African Students In India on Facebook, is being shared massively on social media. “This is most disturbing. Wonder why the security of this mall did not intervene or call the cops? Also, so many people are just watching! Most disgusting, Indians have no right to condemn hate crimes abroad when they can tolerate this in their own country. Horrible!”, reads a comment by a Facebook user. “Indians are the most racist....u guys are saying about Africa... Dey can't tolerate dere own citizens... I.e northeasterns as Chinese n Nepali... N some dalit community as untouchables... N dey talk about racism in USA...pity such citizens”, a user commented on the post. A Nigerian student, had in a tweet, pleaded with Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj for swift action, saying that living in Noida has become a “life threatening issue”. @SushmaSwaraj as an international student in noida, you need to act fast as living for us in Noida is becoming a life threatening issue The minister promised swift action and spoke with UP CM Yogi Adityanath. Sadiq - Government of India is seized of the matter. We are taking immediate action. https://t.co/SRdS2QGuj1 I have spoken to Yogi Adityanath ji Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh about attack on African students in Greater Noida. /1 He has assured that there will be a fair and impartial investigation into this unfortunate incident. /2 On Monday, hundreds of local residents were marching in protest against the death of a Class 12 student, when some turned violent and starting attacking the Nigerians shopping in the area. The attackers alleged that the deceased Manish Khari, was drugged by Africans who live in the area. He later died of heart attack after a suspected overdose on Saturday. There have been several instances every now and then about attacks on the African community in India, prompting the government to give assurance of their safety in the country.

A video of an African man being beaten up by Indians at Ansal Plaza mall in Greater Noida is making rounds on the internet. The man can be seen lying on the floor being beaten by around 18-20 Indians using steel dustbins. The brawl reportedly took place for no reason.

The video, uploaded by Association Of African Students In India on Facebook, is being shared massively on social media.

“This is most disturbing. Wonder why the security of this mall did not intervene or call the cops? Also, so many people are just watching! Most disgusting, Indians have no right to condemn hate crimes abroad when they can tolerate this in their own country. Horrible!”, reads a comment by a Facebook user.

“Indians are the most racist....u guys are saying about Africa... Dey can't tolerate dere own citizens... I.e northeasterns as Chinese n Nepali... N some dalit community as untouchables... N dey talk about racism in USA...pity such citizens”, a user commented on the post.

A Nigerian student, had in a tweet, pleaded with Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj for swift action, saying that living in Noida has become a “life threatening issue”.

@SushmaSwaraj as an international student in noida, you need to act fast as living for us in Noida is becoming a life threatening issue — Sadiq Bello (@Sadiq8800) March 28, 2017

The minister promised swift action and spoke with UP CM Yogi Adityanath.

Sadiq - Government of India is seized of the matter. We are taking immediate action. https://t.co/SRdS2QGuj1 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 28, 2017

I have spoken to Yogi Adityanath ji Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh about attack on African students in Greater Noida. /1 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 28, 2017

He has assured that there will be a fair and impartial investigation into this unfortunate incident. /2 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) March 28, 2017

On Monday, hundreds of local residents were marching in protest against the death of a Class 12 student, when some turned violent and starting attacking the Nigerians shopping in the area.

The attackers alleged that the deceased Manish Khari, was drugged by Africans who live in the area. He later died of heart attack after a suspected overdose on Saturday.

There have been several instances every now and then about attacks on the African community in India, prompting the government to give assurance of their safety in the country.