The 'Fearless Girl' Statue To Stay On The Wall Street Till 2018 Women's Day
The 'Fearless Girl' Statue To Stay On The Wall Street Till 2018 Women's Day
The 'Fearless Girl' Statue To Stay On The Wall Street Till 2018 Women's Day The famous statue of the ‘Fearless Girl’ staring at the ‘Charging Bull’ sculpture at the Wall Street will stay for another year. The decision was announced on Monday by New York Mayor Bill de Blasio saying the statue will stay there until next Women’s Day on March 8, 2018. He called the statue a symbol of "standing up to fear, standing up to power, being able to find in yourself the strength to do what's right." The statue was to be removed next week however, it will now stay for another year. Sculptor Kristen Visba created the ‘Fearless Girl’ statue and was erected in Bowling Green a small park, by the financial firm State Street Global Advisors in honour of International Women's Day in March. The statue became an instant hit, drawing crowds who took selfies and imitated the pose. Calls for "Fearless Girl" to become a permanent part of the financial district began almost immediately after it appeared, including an online petition that had garnered more than 28,000 signatures by Monday morning. However, not everyone has been pleased with the statue. Arturo Di Modica, the sculptor who created the "Charging Bull" in the 1980s, called it an "advertising trick" by a financial firm and said it was "a mistake" for activists to see it as a symbol for women's empowerment.

The famous statue of the ‘Fearless Girl’ staring at the ‘Charging Bull’ sculpture at the Wall Street will stay for another year.

The decision was announced on Monday by New York Mayor Bill de Blasio saying the statue will stay there until next Women’s Day on March 8, 2018. He called the statue a symbol of "standing up to fear, standing up to power, being able to find in yourself the strength to do what's right."

AP

The statue was to be removed next week however, it will now stay for another year.

Sculptor Kristen Visba created the ‘Fearless Girl’ statue and was erected in Bowling Green a small park, by the financial firm State Street Global Advisors in honour of International Women's Day in March.

The statue became an instant hit, drawing crowds who took selfies and imitated the pose.

AFP

Calls for "Fearless Girl" to become a permanent part of the financial district began almost immediately after it appeared, including an online petition that had garnered more than 28,000 signatures by Monday morning.

However, not everyone has been pleased with the statue. Arturo Di Modica, the sculptor who created the "Charging Bull" in the 1980s, called it an "advertising trick" by a financial firm and said it was "a mistake" for activists to see it as a symbol for women's empowerment.

With ANI Inputs