German official accuses Turkey of 'unacceptable' spying against Gulen supporters
German official accuses Turkey of 'unacceptable' spying against Gulen supporters
A German official has accused Turkey of carrying out “unacceptable” spying on its soil amid allegations Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government sent agents after more than 300 people. It is accused of conducting espionage in more than 200 associations and schools linked to supporters of the exiled Turkish cleric Fethullah Gulen. German media reported that the head of Turkey's MIT intelligence agency handed over the names of hundreds of suspected Gulenists to Germany's Federal Intelligence Service during last month's Munich Security Conference. Some of the images included were allegedly secretly recorded using CCTV and other means, showing they had been gained using espionage. "We are horrified at how openly Turkey reveals that it is spying on Turks living here," a German security official was quoted as saying. Read more New 'foreign agent' allegations emerge against Michael Flynn Gulen brother arrested by Turkish police amid Erdogan's coup crackdown Turkish President demands global action against Gulenist movement Prosecutors are already investigating the use of imams to transmit information on Gulenists to Ankara from German mosques. German authorities are reportedly planning to warn those named on the list not to travel to Turkey, fearing they will be detained. Ankara has accused Mr Gulen of plotting an attempted coup against the Turkish President in July but he has denied involvement and the allegations are doubted by much of Europe and the US. His “Hizmet” movement admits some of its supporters may have been involved in the failed uprising, which left hundreds dead, but ensuing purges seeing thousands jailed and newspapers shut down have been seen as a wider crackdown on dissent. The Turkish President hit out at the head of Germany’s BND foreign intelligence service on Friday for suggesting Berlin is not convinced that Mr Gulen orchestrated July’s coup. In pictures: Turkey coup attempt               In pictures: Turkey coup attempt       Turkish President Erdogan attends the funeral service for victims of the thwarted coup in Istanbul at Fatih mosque on July 17, 2016 in Istanbul, Turkey   Burak Kara/Getty Images        Soldiers involved in the coup attempt surrender on Bosphorus bridge with their hands raised in Istanbul on 16 July, 2016   Gokhan Tan/Getty        A civilian beats a soldier after troops involved in the coup surrendered on the Bosphorus Bridge in Istanbul, Turkey, 16 July, 2016   REUTERS/Murad Sezer        Surrendered Turkish soldiers who were involved in the coup are beaten by a civilian   Reuters        Soliders involved in the coup attempt surrender on  Bosphorus bridge   Getty        Supporters of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan wave flags as they capture a Turkish Army vehicle   Getty        People pose near a tank after troops involved in the coup surrendered on the Bosphorus Bridge in Istanbul, Turkey, 16 July, 2016   Reuters        Turkish soldiers block Istanbul's Bosphorus Brigde   Getty        A Turkish military stands guard near the Taksim Square in Istanbul   Reuters                Turkish soldiers secure the area as supporters of Recep Tayyip Erdogan protest in Istanbul's Taksim square   AP         Murad Sezer/Reuters        Turkish soldiers detain police officers during a security shutdown of the Bosphorus Bridge   Reuters        Turkish Army armoured personnel carriers in the main streets of Istanbul   Getty        Chaos reigned in Istanbul as tanks drove through the streets   EPA/TOLGA BOZOGLU        Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan speaks to media in the resort town of Marmaris   Reuters        Supporters of President Erdogan celebrate in Ankara following the suppression of the attempted coup   Reuters  Bruno Kahl told magazine that Turkey tried to “convince us on a number of different levels. But they haven’t yet been successful”. A report by the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee found that evidence of the Gulen movement’s involvement in the group was “anecdotal and circumstantial”, as was evidence used for its terrorist designation by the Turkish government. “While some of the individuals involved in the coup may have been Gülenists, given the large number of Gülenist supporters and organisations in Turkey, it does not necessarily follow that the Gülenists were responsible for the coup or that their leadership directed the coup,” MPs concluded last week. A lack of evidence caused Barack Obama’s administration to refuse Ankara’s calls to extradite Mr Gulen from his home in Pennsylvania but there has been speculation that Donald Trump may not share the position. Refusals by the American government and much of Europe to recognise accusations against Mr Gulen has worsened relations with Turkey amid Mr Erdogan’s anger over international criticism of crackdowns in the military, government and media since the coup. Turkey has also been angered by the cancellation of rallies in Germany, Austria and the Netherlands , by Turkish government ministers aiming to drum up support for a constitutional referendum being held on 16 April. Eligible voters living in Europe have started casting ballots, which could swap Turkey's parliamentary democracy for an executive presidency that has generated international alarm over the prospect of dramatically increased powers for Mr Erdogan. More about: Turkey Germany Fethullah Gulen Recep Tayyip Erdogan Comments

A German official has accused Turkey of carrying out “unacceptable” spying on its soil amid allegations Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government sent agents after more than 300 people.

It is accused of conducting espionage in more than 200 associations and schools linked to supporters of the exiled Turkish cleric Fethullah Gulen.

German media reported that the head of Turkey's MIT intelligence agency handed over the names of hundreds of suspected Gulenists to Germany's Federal Intelligence Service during last month's Munich Security Conference.

Turkey issues arrest warrant against US-based cleric Fethullah Gulen

Some of the images included were allegedly secretly recorded using CCTV and other means, showing they had been gained using espionage.

"We are horrified at how openly Turkey reveals that it is spying on Turks living here," a German security official was quoted as saying.

Prosecutors are already investigating the use of imams to transmit information on Gulenists to Ankara from German mosques.

German authorities are reportedly planning to warn those named on the list not to travel to Turkey, fearing they will be detained.

Ankara has accused Mr Gulen of plotting an attempted coup against the Turkish President in July but he has denied involvement and the allegations are doubted by much of Europe and the US.

His “Hizmet” movement admits some of its supporters may have been involved in the failed uprising, which left hundreds dead, but ensuing purges seeing thousands jailed and newspapers shut down have been seen as a wider crackdown on dissent.

The Turkish President hit out at the head of Germany’s BND foreign intelligence service on Friday for suggesting Berlin is not convinced that Mr Gulen orchestrated July’s coup.

In pictures: Turkey coup attempt







17 show all In pictures: Turkey coup attempt































1/17 Turkish President Erdogan attends the funeral service for victims of the thwarted coup in Istanbul at Fatih mosque on July 17, 2016 in Istanbul, Turkey Burak Kara/Getty Images

2/17 Soldiers involved in the coup attempt surrender on Bosphorus bridge with their hands raised in Istanbul on 16 July, 2016 Gokhan Tan/Getty

3/17 A civilian beats a soldier after troops involved in the coup surrendered on the Bosphorus Bridge in Istanbul, Turkey, 16 July, 2016 REUTERS/Murad Sezer

4/17 Surrendered Turkish soldiers who were involved in the coup are beaten by a civilian Reuters

5/17 Soliders involved in the coup attempt surrender on Bosphorus bridge Getty

6/17 Supporters of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan wave flags as they capture a Turkish Army vehicle Getty

7/17 People pose near a tank after troops involved in the coup surrendered on the Bosphorus Bridge in Istanbul, Turkey, 16 July, 2016 Reuters

8/17 Turkish soldiers block Istanbul's Bosphorus Brigde Getty

9/17 A Turkish military stands guard near the Taksim Square in Istanbul Reuters

10/17 Pierre Crom/Twitter

11/17 Turkish soldiers secure the area as supporters of Recep Tayyip Erdogan protest in Istanbul's Taksim square AP

12/17 Murad Sezer/Reuters

13/17 Turkish soldiers detain police officers during a security shutdown of the Bosphorus Bridge Reuters

14/17 Turkish Army armoured personnel carriers in the main streets of Istanbul Getty

15/17 Chaos reigned in Istanbul as tanks drove through the streets EPA/TOLGA BOZOGLU

16/17 Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan speaks to media in the resort town of Marmaris Reuters

17/17 Supporters of President Erdogan celebrate in Ankara following the suppression of the attempted coup Reuters

Bruno Kahl told Der Spiegel magazine that Turkey tried to “convince us on a number of different levels. But they haven’t yet been successful”.

A report by the House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee found that evidence of the Gulen movement’s involvement in the group was “anecdotal and circumstantial”, as was evidence used for its terrorist designation by the Turkish government.

“While some of the individuals involved in the coup may have been Gülenists, given the large number of Gülenist supporters and organisations in Turkey, it does not necessarily follow that the Gülenists were responsible for the coup or that their leadership directed the coup,” MPs concluded last week.

A lack of evidence caused Barack Obama’s administration to refuse Ankara’s calls to extradite Mr Gulen from his home in Pennsylvania but there has been speculation that Donald Trump may not share the position.

Refusals by the American government and much of Europe to recognise accusations against Mr Gulen has worsened relations with Turkey amid Mr Erdogan’s anger over international criticism of crackdowns in the military, government and media since the coup.

Turkey has also been angered by the cancellation of rallies in Germany, Austria and the Netherlands, by Turkish government ministers aiming to drum up support for a constitutional referendum being held on 16 April.

Eligible voters living in Europe have started casting ballots, which could swap Turkey's parliamentary democracy for an executive presidency that has generated international alarm over the prospect of dramatically increased powers for Mr Erdogan.