YouTube Twins Embrace Natural Beauty
YouTube Twins Embrace Natural Beauty
Instagram and YouTube are full of influencers and personalities looking to establish their brands. Kelsey and Kendra Murrell are two great examples of that. The 25-year-old twins took their love of hair and beauty and decided to make a business of it through the social platforms. The Murrell sisters are the faces behind the successful YouTube channel glamtwinz334 — which boasts over half a million followers. Since the two started posting content in 2011, they have expanded from just beauty and hair tutorials to style-related videos as well. The duo found great success in vlogging and set their channel apart from other bloggers by making their natural hair a focal point of their platform. In 2016, the twins penned their own book on natural hair — — and are currently on a book tour. But it was through releasing videos like “ Top 10 Tips to Grow Out Long HEALTHY Hair ,” which has almost 2 million views, and “ How We Transitioned From Relaxed to Natural Hair ,” which currently has over 1.5 million views, that the lifestyle bloggers built a massive fanbase. Originally starting out at one video per week while they were studying at cosmetology school in Atlanta, the two started putting out more content to keep up with the demand from their subscribers as their channel grew. “The views go up and you’re like, ‘I can actually buy more than just groceries with this,'” Kendra Murrell told NBC (video above) on building their brand. The sisters want to show people how to embrace their own image with their channel. “We want to continue to inspire people to have healthy hair, to have a healthy lifestyle, and just be themselves,” Kendall shared. “The world we live in today — perfection is a trend. People want to strive for perfection. That’s good to a certain extent, but not when you’re insecure and not happy.” How Michelle Dockery Ditched ‘Downton Abbey’ for Sexy Pinstripes What’s the Difference Between a $2,000 Burberry Trench Coat and a $200 One? Jenna Dewan Tatum’s Very Specific Reason for Working With Jennifer Lopez

Instagram and YouTube are full of influencers and personalities looking to establish their brands. Kelsey and Kendra Murrell are two great examples of that. The 25-year-old twins took their love of hair and beauty and decided to make a business of it through the social platforms.

The Murrell sisters are the faces behind the successful YouTube channel glamtwinz334 — which boasts over half a million followers. Since the two started posting content in 2011, they have expanded from just beauty and hair tutorials to style-related videos as well. The duo found great success in vlogging and set their channel apart from other bloggers by making their natural hair a focal point of their platform. In 2016, the twins penned their own book on natural hair — The GlamTwinz Guide to Longer, Healthier Hair — and are currently on a book tour.

But it was through releasing videos like “Top 10 Tips to Grow Out Long HEALTHY Hair,” which has almost 2 million views, and “How We Transitioned From Relaxed to Natural Hair,” which currently has over 1.5 million views, that the lifestyle bloggers built a massive fanbase. Originally starting out at one video per week while they were studying at cosmetology school in Atlanta, the two started putting out more content to keep up with the demand from their subscribers as their channel grew.

“The views go up and you’re like, ‘I can actually buy more than just groceries with this,'” Kendra Murrell told NBC (video above) on building their brand. The sisters want to show people how to embrace their own image with their channel.

“We want to continue to inspire people to have healthy hair, to have a healthy lifestyle, and just be themselves,” Kendall shared. “The world we live in today — perfection is a trend. People want to strive for perfection. That’s good to a certain extent, but not when you’re insecure and not happy.”

Read more from Yahoo Style + Beauty:

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day. For Twitter updates, follow @YahooStyle and @YahooBeauty.

