Michigan, Flint to replace 18,000 lead-tainted water lines
Michigan, Flint to replace 18,000 lead-tainted water lines
Shares                 Michigan and the city of Flint agreed Monday to replace thousands of home water lines under a sweeping deal to settle a lawsuit by residents over lead-contaminated water in the struggling community. Flint will replace at least 18,000 lead or galvanized-steel water lines by 2020, and the state will pick up the bill with state and federal money, according to the settlement filed in federal court. It will be presented Tuesday to U.S. District Judge David Lawson for likely approval. More than 700 water lines already have been replaced and work is ongoing, but the agreement would rid Flint's roughly 100,000 residents of uncertainty over how to pay for the enormous task. Under the settlement, the state will set aside $87 million and keep another $10 million in reserve if necessary. "The proposed agreement is a win for the people of Flint," said Dimple Chaudhary, an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council, which is working with the American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan to represent Flint residents. "It provides a comprehensive framework to address lead in Flint tap water and covers a number of critical issues related to water safety," Chaudhary told The Associated Press. Despite the development, some residents still feel discouraged. Reneta Richard, a 38-year-old teacher, said another few years for new pipes "compiles the despair that I see and feel." She heats bottled water for kitchen use because hot tap water can damage the filter. "When I see someone on TV just turn on the water and wash their hands — I haven't been able to do that for years," Richard said. Flint's water was tainted with lead for at least 18 months, starting in spring 2014. The city, under the control of state-appointed financial managers, tapped the Flint River while a new pipeline was being built to Lake Huron, but the water wasn't treated to reduce corrosion. As a result, lead leached from old pipes and fixtures.  Gov. Rick Snyder finally acknowledged the disaster in fall 2015 after elevated lead levels were found in children. Water quality has improved since Flint returned to the Detroit regional system, but residents still are advised to use filters. The agreement filed Monday was the result of negotiations involving a court-appointed mediator. In November, Lawson ordered the state to deliver bottled water to residents who have trouble with filters, although the state said that remedy would be extremely difficult to meet. Residents who get new water lines will be urged to continue using a filter for six months. There will be no cost for replacement cartridges or household testing kits. There will be tests for lead in the Flint system every six months until one year after the replacement of water lines. An independent monitor also will check household water samples for lead, and the results will be posted online. The agreement also includes ways for the state to begin closing the nine Flint water distribution sites, starting May 1, depending on demand. They all could be closed after Sept. 1, depending on tap water quality. ——— Follow Ed White at http://twitter.com/edwhiteap  Shares                  Michigan, Flint to replace 18,000 lead-tainted water lines   What we don't know about Nunes' White House grounds visit   Dallas-area storms leave nearly 200,000 without power   Cyclone rips off roofs, flings boats onto land in Australia   Pope demands 'urgent' action to protect civilians in Iraq   US judge to hear arguments on longer block to travel ban   House votes to block Obama-era online privacy rule   Clinton hits Trump administration on gender diversity   Chris Christie joining Trump effort to combat opioids   Killing of 3 teens during burglary may test OK 'stand your ground' law   Bodies of American, Swedish UN experts found in Congo   3 storm chasers die in Texas car crash, authorities say   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life   Bride surprises grandmother in hospital after wedding   Kid suffers 3rd-degree burns after DIY slime project   After winning shot, college star gets standing ovation in morning class   Firefighters rescue kitten stuck inside wall   Runners help fatigued racer to half-marathon finish line   Firefighters shave heads to support colleague's son with cancer   Newborns Romeo and Juliet take Shakespeare-themed photo shoot   Fire department welcomes 6 babies in 7 months   Arab summit to endorse Palestinian positions with eye on US   Undercover videos of fetal tissue talks spur felony charges   'Fair chance' US airstrike played role in Mosul civilian deaths, US general says   US stock indexes veer higher as consumer confidence gains   Passenger jet catches fire at Peru airport, video shows   Man arrested in connection with vandalism at Colorado mosque   Ford investing $1.2B in 3 Michigan plants, adding 130 jobs   Couple arrested after trying to sell infant on Craigslist   Undercover Miami police officers caught in shooting ambush, 2 wounded   Missing teen, ex-teacher may be in Mexico: Officials   Teacher visited teen at work before alleged kidnapping, sister says   Emails between allegedly kidnapped teen and former teacher reveal 'romantic interest,' says DA   California police looking for man seen 'car surfing' on highway   South Korean ferry saga a tale of government blunders   Family of Vegas attorney, whose death was originally ruled suicide, believes husband killed her   Katy Perry pays tribute to fan killed in an auto accident   Abby Lee Miller says she's quitting 'Dance Moms'   Reporter's notebook: What I learned from being in a metabolic chamber

Michigan and the city of Flint agreed Monday to replace thousands of home water lines under a sweeping deal to settle a lawsuit by residents over lead-contaminated water in the struggling community.

Flint will replace at least 18,000 lead or galvanized-steel water lines by 2020, and the state will pick up the bill with state and federal money, according to the settlement filed in federal court. It will be presented Tuesday to U.S. District Judge David Lawson for likely approval.

More than 700 water lines already have been replaced and work is ongoing, but the agreement would rid Flint's roughly 100,000 residents of uncertainty over how to pay for the enormous task. Under the settlement, the state will set aside $87 million and keep another $10 million in reserve if necessary.

"The proposed agreement is a win for the people of Flint," said Dimple Chaudhary, an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council, which is working with the American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan to represent Flint residents.

"It provides a comprehensive framework to address lead in Flint tap water and covers a number of critical issues related to water safety," Chaudhary told The Associated Press.

Despite the development, some residents still feel discouraged. Reneta Richard, a 38-year-old teacher, said another few years for new pipes "compiles the despair that I see and feel." She heats bottled water for kitchen use because hot tap water can damage the filter.

"When I see someone on TV just turn on the water and wash their hands — I haven't been able to do that for years," Richard said.

Flint's water was tainted with lead for at least 18 months, starting in spring 2014. The city, under the control of state-appointed financial managers, tapped the Flint River while a new pipeline was being built to Lake Huron, but the water wasn't treated to reduce corrosion. As a result, lead leached from old pipes and fixtures.

Gov. Rick Snyder finally acknowledged the disaster in fall 2015 after elevated lead levels were found in children. Water quality has improved since Flint returned to the Detroit regional system, but residents still are advised to use filters.

The agreement filed Monday was the result of negotiations involving a court-appointed mediator. In November, Lawson ordered the state to deliver bottled water to residents who have trouble with filters, although the state said that remedy would be extremely difficult to meet.

Residents who get new water lines will be urged to continue using a filter for six months. There will be no cost for replacement cartridges or household testing kits.

There will be tests for lead in the Flint system every six months until one year after the replacement of water lines. An independent monitor also will check household water samples for lead, and the results will be posted online.

The agreement also includes ways for the state to begin closing the nine Flint water distribution sites, starting May 1, depending on demand. They all could be closed after Sept. 1, depending on tap water quality.

———

Follow Ed White at http://twitter.com/edwhiteap