You need these photos of Alicia Vikander as Lara Croft
You need these photos of Alicia Vikander as Lara Croft
It's the golden age for reimagining adaptations that have already happened. 2001's starring Angelina Jolie is now older than many sentient moviegoers, so the beloved video game series was due for a reboot any day. In Warner Bros.' 2018 take on Tomb Raider , Oscar winner Alicia Vikander embodies the title role, and she looks fierce as hell. SEE ALSO: 10 movie adaptations that totally didn't suck Here's Vikander in Croft's iconic gray tank top and cargo pants, ready to fight any haters in the woods: Image:  Graham Bartholomew The synopsis, according to a press release, finds Lara struggling to find herself and dealing with her father's death: Lara Croft is the fiercely independent daughter of an eccentric adventurer who vanished when she was scarcely a teen. Now a young woman of 21 without any real focus or purpose, Lara navigates the chaotic streets of trendy East London as a bike courier, barely making the rent, and takes college courses, rarely making it to class. Determined to forge her own path, she refuses to take the reins of her father’s global empire just as staunchly as she rejects the idea that he’s truly gone.  Advised to face the facts and move forward after seven years without him, even Lara can’t understand what drives her to finally solve the puzzle of his mysterious death. Going explicitly against his final wishes, she leaves everything she knows behind in search of her dad’s last-known destination: a fabled tomb on a mythical island that might be somewhere off the coast of Japan.  But her mission will not be an easy one; just reaching the island will be extremely treacherous.  Suddenly, the stakes couldn’t be higher for Lara, who—against the odds and armed with only her sharp mind, blind faith and inherently stubborn spirit—must learn to push herself beyond her limits as she journeys into the unknown.  If she survives this perilous adventure, it could be the making of her, earning her the name . Raiding tombs looks exhausting. Image:  Ilzek Kitshoff Image:  Graham Bartholomew hits theaters in March 2018. WATCH: Fans are dying to see the 'Twin Peaks' revival after waiting 25 years

It's the golden age for reimagining adaptations that have already happened. 2001's Lara Croft: Tomb Raider starring Angelina Jolie is now older than many sentient moviegoers, so the beloved video game series was due for a reboot any day.

In Warner Bros.' 2018 take on Tomb Raider, Oscar winner Alicia Vikander embodies the title role, and she looks fierce as hell.

Here's Vikander in Croft's iconic gray tank top and cargo pants, ready to fight any haters in the woods:

Image: Graham Bartholomew

The synopsis, according to a press release, finds Lara struggling to find herself and dealing with her father's death:

Lara Croft is the fiercely independent daughter of an eccentric adventurer who vanished when she was scarcely a teen. Now a young woman of 21 without any real focus or purpose, Lara navigates the chaotic streets of trendy East London as a bike courier, barely making the rent, and takes college courses, rarely making it to class. Determined to forge her own path, she refuses to take the reins of her father’s global empire just as staunchly as she rejects the idea that he’s truly gone. Advised to face the facts and move forward after seven years without him, even Lara can’t understand what drives her to finally solve the puzzle of his mysterious death.

Going explicitly against his final wishes, she leaves everything she knows behind in search of her dad’s last-known destination: a fabled tomb on a mythical island that might be somewhere off the coast of Japan. But her mission will not be an easy one; just reaching the island will be extremely treacherous. Suddenly, the stakes couldn’t be higher for Lara, who—against the odds and armed with only her sharp mind, blind faith and inherently stubborn spirit—must learn to push herself beyond her limits as she journeys into the unknown. If she survives this perilous adventure, it could be the making of her, earning her the name tomb raider.

Raiding tombs looks exhausting. Image: Ilzek Kitshoff

Image: Graham Bartholomew

Tomb Raider hits theaters in March 2018.