Journalist Booked Under Official Secrets Act, Abetment To Suicide After Soldier's Death Over Sting Video
Journalist Booked Under OSA, Abetment To Suicide After Soldier's Death Over Sting Video
Journalist Booked Under Official Secrets Act, Abetment To Suicide After Soldier's Death Over Sting Video The journalist who conducted a sting operation about the 'sahayak system' in the Indian Army has been booked by Maharashtra Police after a soldier featured in the video committed suicide last month. She has been booked under Sections 3 and 7 of Official Secrets Act and those relating to criminal trespass and abetment to suicide under IPC. According to The Indian Express, Nashik police which is investigating the case said the Army has accused Aggarwal of trespassing into a restricted area and filming there. “After studying the application, we have registered a case against Aggarwal (the journalist) under Sections 3 and 7 of the Official Secrets Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code for criminal trespass and abetment to suicide,” said a senior officer told The Indian Express. Police had earlier recorded the statement of the journalist in connection with the incident. According to reports the journalist has shared details including those of contacts who helped her enter the cantonment. ‘She has given us a chronology of the events leading to the sting operation, and has also shared details of the contacts within the Army who helped her get inside the prohibited area. She has even shared her chats with various jawans whom she had spoken during the course of her story on an app-based messenger service. We have taken a copy of those chats,’ an officer was quoted saying. The sting operation conducted by a news website ran into troubled waters after Roy Mathew, one of the soldiers seen complaining about their treatment in the video committed suicide. Roy's family calimed that he was under pressure after the video was released and was unaware of the fact that he was being filmed or was talking to a journalist. Even though in the video, Roy's face was blurred, he was clearly recognizable from his voice and physique.

The journalist who conducted a sting operation about the 'sahayak system' in the Indian Army has been booked by Maharashtra Police after a soldier featured in the video committed suicide last month.

BCCL

She has been booked under Sections 3 and 7 of Official Secrets Act and those relating to criminal trespass and abetment to suicide under IPC.

According to The Indian Express, Nashik police which is investigating the case said the Army has accused Aggarwal of trespassing into a restricted area and filming there.

“After studying the application, we have registered a case against Aggarwal (the journalist) under Sections 3 and 7 of the Official Secrets Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code for criminal trespass and abetment to suicide,” said a senior officer told The Indian Express.

Police had earlier recorded the statement of the journalist in connection with the incident.

BCCL

According to reports the journalist has shared details including those of contacts who helped her enter the cantonment.

‘She has given us a chronology of the events leading to the sting operation, and has also shared details of the contacts within the Army who helped her get inside the prohibited area. She has even shared her chats with various jawans whom she had spoken during the course of her story on an app-based messenger service. We have taken a copy of those chats,’ an officer was quoted saying.

BCCL

The sting operation conducted by a news website ran into troubled waters after Roy Mathew, one of the soldiers seen complaining about their treatment in the video committed suicide.

Roy's family calimed that he was under pressure after the video was released and was unaware of the fact that he was being filmed or was talking to a journalist.

Even though in the video, Roy's face was blurred, he was clearly recognizable from his voice and physique.

BCCL

Don't Miss 2.5 K SHARES 47.1 K SHARES 41.4 K SHARES 29.7 K SHARES 25.9 K SHARES

His family alleged that the website did not conceal his identity and Roy took the extreme step of killing himself fearing backlash from his seniors.

Roy was found hanging in an abandoned barrack in the Deolali Cantonment on February 28. Following Roy's death the website deleted the video of the sting operation.