Here's Why Nicki Wouldn't Let Kanye Appear on "Right Thru Me" Even Though He Begged
Here's Why Nicki Wouldn't Let Kanye Appear on "Right Thru Me" Even Though He Begged
In a parallel universe, the presumably better versions of ourselves are probably still talking about that time Nicki Minaj and Kanye West dominated the Hot 100 with their "Right Thru Me" collab. Sadly, here in this shitty reality, West never made it on the hit single. As Minaj recently revealed on Twitter, that doesn't mean West didn't try his damnedest to make it happen. According to Minaj, West begged to get on "Right Thru Me" but was ultimately advised against it by Minaj herself. "I wish I would've obliged," Minaj added. "But at the time it was just such a personal song to me." Hooks I freestyled in the studio: "Blazin" Fun fact: Kanye REALLY wanted to get on RIGHT THRU ME. I had to beg him to change his mind. Yes. I wish I would've obliged. But at the time it was just such a personal song to me. He really loved it. Lol. Crazy right? https://t.co/reuMJVoa1q West, of course, did find his way onto the Drew Money-produced "Blazin," which samples Simple Minds' 1985 pop classic "Don't You (Forget About Me)." Last week, Minaj made chart history by surpassing Aretha Franklin for the most Billboard Hot 100 hits among women artists. Minaj's recent triple dose of new songs, including a Wayne and Drake collab, was enough to give Minaj 76 Hot 100 appearances. Franklin, who held the record for nearly 40 years, has 73 appearances. If anyone in the parallel universe where the Kanye-featuring version of "Right Thru Me" exists would like to share, feel free to defy space and time by @ing me with a Zippyshare link.

In a parallel universe, the presumably better versions of ourselves are probably still talking about that time Nicki Minaj and Kanye West dominated the Hot 100 with their "Right Thru Me" collab. Sadly, here in this shitty reality, West never made it on the hit Pink Friday single. As Minaj recently revealed on Twitter, that doesn't mean West didn't try his damnedest to make it happen.

According to Minaj, West begged to get on "Right Thru Me" but was ultimately advised against it by Minaj herself. "I wish I would've obliged," Minaj added. "But at the time it was just such a personal song to me."

Hooks I freestyled in the studio: "Blazin" Fun fact: Kanye REALLY wanted to get on RIGHT THRU ME. I had to beg him to change his mind. — NICKI MINAJ (@NICKIMINAJ) March 25, 2017

Yes. I wish I would've obliged. But at the time it was just such a personal song to me. He really loved it. Lol. Crazy right? https://t.co/reuMJVoa1q — NICKI MINAJ (@NICKIMINAJ) March 25, 2017

West, of course, did find his way onto the Drew Money-produced "Blazin," which samples Simple Minds' 1985 pop classic "Don't You (Forget About Me)."

Last week, Minaj made chart history by surpassing Aretha Franklin for the most Billboard Hot 100 hits among women artists. Minaj's recent triple dose of new songs, including a Wayne and Drake collab, was enough to give Minaj 76 Hot 100 appearances. Franklin, who held the record for nearly 40 years, has 73 appearances.

If anyone in the parallel universe where the Kanye-featuring version of "Right Thru Me" exists would like to share, feel free to defy space and time by @ing me with a Zippyshare link.