Vince Carter ‘definitely’ will wear T-shirt showing him dunking on Trump

It may seem like Vince Carter has been playing in the NBA since the Carter administration, but the league’s oldest player is only on his fourth president since being drafted. Either way, he doesn’t appear to be a big fan of the newest administration, to judge from his reaction to a T-shirt sent to him by a fan. The garment displays an image of the 40-year-old Grizzlies swingman dunking ferociously on President Trump. New on TeePublic: Half Man, Half a Nation feat. Vince Carter & the Donald https://t.co/8B45ZBeOSB  pic.twitter.com/MVL66yJvks — Dan Carson (@TheDoctorCarson) February 2, 2017 The man who designed the shirt, Dan Carson, recently posted video provided by the Grizzlies’ staff which showed Carter holding the shirt and saying that it was “pretty cool.” Carter added that he “definitely will wear it,” even though it would “probably bring on some controversy.” (Better vid) pic.twitter.com/00TdshZg0x — Dan Carson (@TheDoctorCarson) March 26, 2017 The image is based on Carter’s famous dunk on France’s Frederic Weis during the 2000 Olympics, at the height of his highflying, “Half Man, Half Amazing” renown. The dunk is widely regarded as one of the greatest in-game jams ever, if not the greatest.   “This is the height of dunks,” Carson told the Toronto Star . “This is the apex of dunks. Vince was a force of nature in 2000. There wasn’t much anybody could do to stop him.” The 7-2 Weis, who was the Knicks’ first-round pick in 1999 (much to the chagrin of fans who wanted the team to select New York native and St. John’s star Ron Artest) but never played in the NBA, told ESPN in 2015, “[Carter] deserves to make history. … I learned people can fly.” In the video Carson posted, Carter said that the shirt “brings back good memories,” and if wearing it did cause any controversy, it would be “all worth it.” If Carter is actually spotted wearing the shirt, he may well get an unhappy tweet or two from Trump about it, but that could be something of a badge of honor within the NBA, which has seen many of its players and coaches speak out about the president.



Vince Carter said the shirt brought back “good memories.” (Darren Abate/Associated Press)

It may seem like Vince Carter has been playing in the NBA since the Carter administration, but the league’s oldest player is only on his fourth president since being drafted. Either way, he doesn’t appear to be a big fan of the newest administration, to judge from his reaction to a T-shirt sent to him by a fan. The garment displays an image of the 40-year-old Grizzlies swingman dunking ferociously on President Trump.

New on TeePublic: Half Man, Half a Nation feat. Vince Carter & the Donald https://t.co/8B45ZBeOSB pic.twitter.com/MVL66yJvks — Dan Carson (@TheDoctorCarson) February 2, 2017

The man who designed the shirt, Dan Carson, recently posted video provided by the Grizzlies’ staff which showed Carter holding the shirt and saying that it was “pretty cool.” Carter added that he “definitely will wear it,” even though it would “probably bring on some controversy.”

The image is based on Carter’s famous dunk on France’s Frederic Weis during the 2000 Olympics, at the height of his highflying, “Half Man, Half Amazing” renown. The dunk is widely regarded as one of the greatest in-game jams ever, if not the greatest.

[Trump cites report that NFL teams won’t sign Kaepernick for fear of president’s tweet]

“This is the height of dunks,” Carson told the Toronto Star. “This is the apex of dunks. Vince was a force of nature in 2000. There wasn’t much anybody could do to stop him.”

The 7-2 Weis, who was the Knicks’ first-round pick in 1999 (much to the chagrin of fans who wanted the team to select New York native and St. John’s star Ron Artest) but never played in the NBA, told ESPN in 2015, “[Carter] deserves to make history. … I learned people can fly.”

In the video Carson posted, Carter said that the shirt “brings back good memories,” and if wearing it did cause any controversy, it would be “all worth it.” If Carter is actually spotted wearing the shirt, he may well get an unhappy tweet or two from Trump about it, but that could be something of a badge of honor within the NBA, which has seen many of its players and coaches speak out about the president.