Monkman v Seagull: friendship is winner in University Challenge showdown

It was billed as a titanic final battle between two implacable enemies. After months of cerebral combat on BBC2’s University Challenge , two of the series’s breakout social media stars – the intensely focused Canadian Eric Monkman , of Wolfson College, Cambridge, and the expressive east Londoner Bobby Seagull , of Emmanuel College, Cambridge – would come face-to-face in a hotly-anticipated semi-final. Fans on Twitter called it “the showdown of the century ” and the two men “the Ronaldo and Messi of University Challenge”, spawning countless  online  jokes and (inevitably) a trending hashtag – #Monkmania. “Seagull v Monkman, 8pm tonight,” tweeted one viewer . “I haven’t been this excited since Pacino and De Niro finally came face to face in Heat.” In the end, as we know, there can be only one victor, and after a knife-edge finish, it was Wolfson, captained by the forceful, bewilderingly brainy Monkman , which narrowly triumphed over Seagull’s team from Emmanuel. Even Jeremy Paxman, the programme’s host , agreed he had watched something special, saying: “You guys, all of you ... you are very, very clever, and it was a pleasure to watch this match.” Seagull said on Tuesday, the morning after the broadcast: “I think if Twitter could melt, last night is probably the occasion when it did.” He had received countless messages on social media, he said, “but the most amusing thing is when people stop you in the street – the fruit and veg seller in Cambridge said to me, ‘Go on, Bobby Seagull, good luck in the semi-final!’ I’ve quite enjoyed chatting to members of the public.” While they may be intense rivals onscreen, the two men, it turns out, have become close friends through their joint quizzing experiences. On Tuesday, they travelled together by train from Cambridge to London for an appearance on BBC1’s The One Show. Seagull, 33, lent the 29-year-old Canadian his mobile phone to speak to the Guardian for much of the journey. The Londoner, a part-time maths teacher, has been completing his masters in education. For Monkman, who has been living at home in Oakville, a suburb of Toronto, since completing his masters in economics in the summer, the experience of his swelling internet celebrity over the last few months has been a more distant phenomenon. (The programme is filmed months ahead of broadcast; contestants sign non-disclosure agreements preventing them from saying when.) A couple of people in Canada recognise him from seeing photographs online, and he has a cousin who works in London “so she would say to my relatives, ‘Did you know Eric is big on Twitter, he’s a news item here?’ But certainly in Canada, the average person would not have heard of it.” For the last couple of broadcasts, however, he has made the trip to the UK to watch the show with his teammates and former rivals. “Bobby is a great guy, he is passionate about the show, and I think anybody who is as passionate about quizzing as that is going to be my friend.” Monkman, whose team won their place in the final by answering questions on Greek prefixes, stained glass windows in northwest England and early 20th-century Nobel laureates, gained Twitter celebrity thanks to his particularly emphatic delivery. Seagull said: “Eric is a very focused, intense person on the screen, but outside the screen, he is such a humble, gracious person.” The two college teams - which had played each other frequently in Cambridge practice sessions (with honours roughly even) — “have a very warm relationship ... our friendship has just grown and grown”. Though Seagull was there to support his friend for the recording of the final, to be broadcast on Monday 10 April, he was tight-lipped about the result. “But obviously, they are my very good friends, and they have entertained a lot of people. So they have my backing in the final for sure.”  University Challenge   Game shows   Television   Cambridge   University of Cambridge   news

Eric Monkman’s team beats Bobby Seagull’s in semi-final of TV quiz show, but Bobby is there to lend support in the final

It was billed as a titanic final battle between two implacable enemies. After months of cerebral combat on BBC2’s University Challenge, two of the series’s breakout social media stars – the intensely focused Canadian Eric Monkman, of Wolfson College, Cambridge, and the expressive east Londoner Bobby Seagull, of Emmanuel College, Cambridge – would come face-to-face in a hotly-anticipated semi-final.

Fans on Twitter called it “the showdown of the century” and the two men “the Ronaldo and Messi of University Challenge”, spawning countless online jokes and (inevitably) a trending hashtag – #Monkmania. “Seagull v Monkman, 8pm tonight,” tweeted one viewer. “I haven’t been this excited since Pacino and De Niro finally came face to face in Heat.”

In the end, as we know, there can be only one victor, and after a knife-edge finish, it was Wolfson, captained by the forceful, bewilderingly brainy Monkman, which narrowly triumphed over Seagull’s team from Emmanuel.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The forceful Eric Monkman shows his brainpower.

Even Jeremy Paxman, the programme’s host, agreed he had watched something special, saying: “You guys, all of you ... you are very, very clever, and it was a pleasure to watch this match.”

Seagull said on Tuesday, the morning after the broadcast: “I think if Twitter could melt, last night is probably the occasion when it did.” He had received countless messages on social media, he said, “but the most amusing thing is when people stop you in the street – the fruit and veg seller in Cambridge said to me, ‘Go on, Bobby Seagull, good luck in the semi-final!’ I’ve quite enjoyed chatting to members of the public.”

While they may be intense rivals onscreen, the two men, it turns out, have become close friends through their joint quizzing experiences. On Tuesday, they travelled together by train from Cambridge to London for an appearance on BBC1’s The One Show. Seagull, 33, lent the 29-year-old Canadian his mobile phone to speak to the Guardian for much of the journey. The Londoner, a part-time maths teacher, has been completing his masters in education.

For Monkman, who has been living at home in Oakville, a suburb of Toronto, since completing his masters in economics in the summer, the experience of his swelling internet celebrity over the last few months has been a more distant phenomenon. (The programme is filmed months ahead of broadcast; contestants sign non-disclosure agreements preventing them from saying when.)

A couple of people in Canada recognise him from seeing photographs online, and he has a cousin who works in London “so she would say to my relatives, ‘Did you know Eric is big on Twitter, he’s a news item here?’ But certainly in Canada, the average person would not have heard of it.”

For the last couple of broadcasts, however, he has made the trip to the UK to watch the show with his teammates and former rivals. “Bobby is a great guy, he is passionate about the show, and I think anybody who is as passionate about quizzing as that is going to be my friend.”

Monkman, whose team won their place in the final by answering questions on Greek prefixes, stained glass windows in northwest England and early 20th-century Nobel laureates, gained Twitter celebrity thanks to his particularly emphatic delivery. Seagull said: “Eric is a very focused, intense person on the screen, but outside the screen, he is such a humble, gracious person.”

The two college teams - which had played each other frequently in Cambridge practice sessions (with honours roughly even) — “have a very warm relationship ... our friendship has just grown and grown”.

Though Seagull was there to support his friend for the recording of the final, to be broadcast on Monday 10 April, he was tight-lipped about the result. “But obviously, they are my very good friends, and they have entertained a lot of people. So they have my backing in the final for sure.”