Five burning questions we have about 'Stranger Things' Season 2
Five burning questions we have about 'Stranger Things' Season 2
At this point, all we know about season two is that it will debut on Halloween. But we have a lot of questions about the series, which became an immediate must-binge when it debuted last summer. As we countdown the days until we can see our favorite '80s kids reunite, here's what we hope Season 2 reveals. SEE ALSO: 'Stranger Things' Season 2 headed to Netflix in fall 1. Where's Eleven?!?! Image:  netflix Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown) ended up sacrificing herself to defeat the faceless creature. But she's not dead. At the very end of the final episode, police chief Jim Hopper (David Harbour) is seen dropping off Eggos (Eleven's favorite) in the woods. From the trailer for season two we know Eleven (Millie Bobbie Brown) is indeed breathing heavily and hanging upside down somewhere with her nose bleeding. But is she? And does she need some Eggos? 2. How's Will doing? Image:  screenshot/youtube Will (Noah Schnapp) had a rough time in the Upside Down. Now that he's back, the squad is seemingly back in full force. Season two photos show the group sporting Ghostbusters costumes. Still, it doesn't seem easy to going back to reality. In the trailer it looks like Will is going to be undergoing some sort of neurological test with his mom Joyce (Winona Ryder) by his side. "Will Byers was in that Upside Down for a while," series director Shawn Levy told . "So Season 2 is about this determined desire to return to normalcy in Hawkins, in the Byers family, in that group of friends, and it's the struggle to reclaim normalcy and maybe the impossibility of it." 3. Will we see more monsters from the Upside Down? Image:  screenshot/youtube This spider-esque monster (above) appears twice in the new trailer. But we don't really know what it is, of course. One can only assume it's yet another monster. Some theories have also popped on Reddit that the Thessalhydra — the monster defeated by the boys when they play Dungeons & Dragons — could be part of Season 2. The description for the Netflix trailer reads: A year after Will’s return, everything seems back to normal…but a darkness lurks just beneath the surface, threatening all of Hawkins." Bring on the darkness. 4. Will there be justice for Barb? Image:  netflix Barb (Shannon Purser) became the breakout star of Season 1. Despite her minimal screen time, the internet went nuts after the Demogorgon killed her. It sparked enough outrage to create an online movement with the hashtag #JusticeforBarb . Still, that justice isn't very likely. At New York Comic Con , Harbour did give a semi-answer as to what may happen — if anything — with the Barb storyline. "We do know a little bit about Barb...but we're not going to tell you anything," Harbour said. "We will tell you that we do deal with the loose ends in Season 2, and we do deal with some of the internet rage over Barb's death. We will have justice for Barb in some sense. But those of you wishing Barb will somehow come back to the show, I can assure you Barb is very much dead." 5. Who is the "Lost Brother"? Creators Matt Duffer and Ross Duffer — aka the Duffer Brothers — are careful not to spoil too much about Season 2. But ahead of the debut, they did roll out the list of episode titles. This season there will be nine episodes: "Madmax" "The boy who came back to life" "The Pumpkin Patch" "The Palace" "The Storm" "The Pollywog" "The Secret Cabin" "The Brain" "The Lost Brother" Fans are especially freaking out over the title of episode nine, "The Lost Brother." On Reddit, some think this could be Eleven's biological brother. Others think it refers to Mike, who they feel may end up in the Upside Down himself. We hope this doesn't mean anyone dies! WATCH: Season 2 of 'Stranger Things' is going to be lit according to these fan theories

At this point, all we really know about Stranger Things season two is that it will debut on Halloween.

But we have a lot of questions about the series, which became an immediate must-binge when it debuted last summer.

As we countdown the days until we can see our favorite '80s kids reunite, here's what we hope Season 2 reveals.

1. Where's Eleven?!?!

Image: netflix

Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown) ended up sacrificing herself to defeat the faceless creature. But she's not dead.

At the very end of the final episode, police chief Jim Hopper (David Harbour) is seen dropping off Eggos (Eleven's favorite) in the woods.

From the trailer for season two we know Eleven (Millie Bobbie Brown) is indeed breathing heavily and hanging upside down somewhere with her nose bleeding.

But where is she? And does she need some Eggos?

2. How's Will doing?

Image: screenshot/youtube

Will (Noah Schnapp) had a rough time in the Upside Down. Now that he's back, the squad is seemingly back in full force. Season two photos show the group sporting Ghostbusters costumes.

Still, it doesn't seem easy to going back to reality. In the trailer it looks like Will is going to be undergoing some sort of neurological test with his mom Joyce (Winona Ryder) by his side.

"Will Byers was in that Upside Down for a while," series director Shawn Levy told Collider. "So Season 2 is about this determined desire to return to normalcy in Hawkins, in the Byers family, in that group of friends, and it's the struggle to reclaim normalcy and maybe the impossibility of it."

3. Will we see more monsters from the Upside Down?

Image: screenshot/youtube

This spider-esque monster (above) appears twice in the new trailer. But we don't really know what it is, of course. One can only assume it's yet another monster.

Some theories have also popped on Reddit that the Thessalhydra — the monster defeated by the boys when they play Dungeons & Dragons — could be part of Season 2.

The description for the Netflix trailer reads: A year after Will’s return, everything seems back to normal…but a darkness lurks just beneath the surface, threatening all of Hawkins."

Bring on the darkness.

4. Will there be justice for Barb?

Image: netflix

Barb (Shannon Purser) became the breakout star of Season 1. Despite her minimal screen time, the internet went nuts after the Demogorgon killed her. It sparked enough outrage to create an online movement with the hashtag #JusticeforBarb.

Still, that justice isn't very likely. At New York Comic Con, Harbour did give a semi-answer as to what may happen — if anything — with the Barb storyline.

"We do know a little bit about Barb...but we're not going to tell you anything," Harbour said. "We will tell you that we do deal with the loose ends in Season 2, and we do deal with some of the internet rage over Barb's death. We will have justice for Barb in some sense. But those of you wishing Barb will somehow come back to the show, I can assure you Barb is very much dead."

5. Who is the "Lost Brother"?

Creators Matt Duffer and Ross Duffer — aka the Duffer Brothers — are careful not to spoil too much about Season 2. But ahead of the debut, they did roll out the list of episode titles. This season there will be nine episodes:

"Madmax" "The boy who came back to life" "The Pumpkin Patch" "The Palace" "The Storm" "The Pollywog" "The Secret Cabin" "The Brain" "The Lost Brother"

Fans are especially freaking out over the title of episode nine, "The Lost Brother." On Reddit, some think this could be Eleven's biological brother.

Others think it refers to Mike, who they feel may end up in the Upside Down himself. We hope this doesn't mean anyone dies!