2 dogs just had an incredible engagement photoshoot so the rest of us might as well give up
2 dogs just had an incredible engagement photoshoot so the rest of us might as well give up
Engagement photoshoots are lovely, but can get annoying when ten of your engaged friends post them on Facebook all at the same time. We get it, you're so in love and the photographer made both of you look like you have very nice skin. But it's not every day that you see two dogs have an engagement photoshoot. SEE ALSO: Nothing says 'Will you marry me?' like a bouquet of Doritos at a hockey game Sebastian and Luna , two Washington D.C. based pups with a following on Instagram to the tune of over 56,000, showed us exactly how magical one of those can be this past weekend when they visited the city's cherry blossom festival. One look at this idyllic scene and we immediately give up. There's no way our future photoshoots — any of them for any reason — will ever look this good. That above album of photos was their "outtakes." When did outtakes come to mean photos that look equally as good as the official photos but we decided to call them outtakes because we might have been cute in them? Our jealousy aside, we want to congratulate the happy pup-ple. May your honeymoon be filled with more stylish outfits and gift baskets full of treats. WATCH: Grooming her way to doggie Insta-fame

Engagement photoshoots are lovely, but can get annoying when ten of your engaged friends post them on Facebook all at the same time. We get it, you're so in love and the photographer made both of you look like you have very nice skin.

But it's not every day that you see two dogs have an engagement photoshoot.

SEE ALSO: Nothing says 'Will you marry me?' like a bouquet of Doritos at a hockey game

Sebastian and Luna, two Washington D.C. based pups with a following on Instagram to the tune of over 56,000, showed us exactly how magical one of those can be this past weekend when they visited the city's cherry blossom festival.

One look at this idyllic scene and we immediately give up. There's no way our future photoshoots — any of them for any reason — will ever look this good.

That above album of photos was their "outtakes." When did outtakes come to mean photos that look equally as good as the official photos but we decided to call them outtakes because we might have been too cute in them?

Our jealousy aside, we want to congratulate the happy pup-ple. May your honeymoon be filled with more stylish outfits and gift baskets full of treats.

WATCH: Grooming her way to doggie Insta-fame