The Ongoing, Eternal Bromance of Drake and Odell Beckham Jr.
The Ongoing, Eternal Bromance of Drake and Odell Beckham Jr.
Drake may or may not be a bandwagon fan , but one thing is for sure: He is faithful, faithful, faithful, faithful to one athlete in particular. That man is New York Giants receiver Odell Beckham Jr. If you hadn't noticed, the young NFL poster boy has put the debacle of last season behind him by trailing Drake across Europe In a Draft Kings interview from Aug. 26, 2016, Odell spoke of their blossoming friendship and explained that he grew up watching . It was clear the kid was living every fan's dream—getting to meet your idol and discovering they're just as cool as you imagined. "To see his whole story and then to finally be able to meet him, a guy like that whose mindset is very similar to mine," OBJ said . "Like I said, he wants to be the greatest. He wants to put out the best song every single time. I understand where he’s at." It hasn't been that long since OBJ's ridiculous one-handed catch ratcheted him into stardom, but there are certainly parallels between his meteoric rise and that of the 6ix God. Perhaps their pairing is kismet; maybe they just happen to be the hottest in their fields at the right time. Here, we bring you the timeline of the consummate modern rapper-baller bromance.

Drake may or may not be a bandwagon fan, but one thing is for sure: He is faithful, faithful, faithful, faithful to one athlete in particular. That man is New York Giants receiver Odell Beckham Jr.

If you hadn't noticed, the young NFL poster boy has put the debacle of last season behind him by trailing Drake across Europe, tagging along on The Boy Meets World Tour. Not a day has gone by since More Life dropped that Beckham has failed to update his Instagram with posts captioned with Drake lyrics—something he's done his entire career. It's the literal embodiment of Drake's "Thank Me Now" lyrics: "Damn, I swear sports and music are so synonymous / 'cause we wanna be them and they wanna be us."

In a Draft Kings interview from Aug. 26, 2016, Odell spoke of their blossoming friendship and explained that he grew up watching Degrassi. It was clear the kid was living every fan's dream—getting to meet your idol and discovering they're just as cool as you imagined.

"To see his whole story and then to finally be able to meet him, a guy like that whose mindset is very similar to mine," OBJ said. "Like I said, he wants to be the greatest. He wants to put out the best song every single time. I understand where he’s at."

It hasn't been that long since OBJ's ridiculous one-handed catch ratcheted him into stardom, but there are certainly parallels between his meteoric rise and that of the 6ix God. Perhaps their pairing is kismet; maybe they just happen to be the hottest in their fields at the right time. Here, we bring you the timeline of the consummate modern rapper-baller bromance.