Auburn SS Haley Fagan, Florida HC Tim Walton Involved in Altercation After Game
Auburn SS Haley Fagan, Florida HC Tim Walton Involved in Altercation After Game
Auburn softball player Haley Fagan and Florida softball coach Tim Walton had an altercation following the Tigers' 1-0 Monday win. Andrew Joseph of cited a 2012 report from Andy Marks of Gainesville.com and said Walton previously released Fagan's sisters Sami and Kasey from the Gators program. Fagan didn't offer her hand to Walton as the two teams exchanged postgame handshakes Monday, but the coach still made a handshake motion. She responded by pushing him in the back, as James Crepea of AL.com shared: Here's exchange between Haley Fagan &amp; Tim Walton. She didn't have her hand up so he gets her shoulder. She pushes.
https://t.co/ytPJXnzZcn According to Marks, Kevin Fagan, the father of Sami and Kasey, said Florida released his daughters because of "an altercation on the team." "The team sort of divided, and Walton felt like it was in his best interest to get rid of [them]," he continued. Given Monday's incident, there appears to be some lingering bad feelings between the Fagans and Walton. The contest was the last battle between Florida and Auburn during the 2017 regular season, but they each figure to compete for titles in the postseason considering the Gators are No. 2 and the Tigers are No. 5 in the /NFCA Coaches Poll . Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Sue Ogrocki/Associated Press

Auburn softball player Haley Fagan and Florida softball coach Tim Walton had an altercation following the Tigers' 1-0 Monday win.

Andrew Joseph of USA Today cited a 2012 report from Andy Marks of Gainesville.com and said Walton previously released Fagan's sisters Sami and Kasey from the Gators program. Fagan didn't offer her hand to Walton as the two teams exchanged postgame handshakes Monday, but the coach still made a handshake motion.

She responded by pushing him in the back, as James Crepea of AL.com shared:

According to Marks, Kevin Fagan, the father of Sami and Kasey, said Florida released his daughters because of "an altercation on the team."

"The team sort of divided, and Walton felt like it was in his best interest to get rid of [them]," he continued.

Given Monday's incident, there appears to be some lingering bad feelings between the Fagans and Walton.

The contest was the last battle between Florida and Auburn during the 2017 regular season, but they each figure to compete for titles in the postseason considering the Gators are No. 2 and the Tigers are No. 5 in the USA Today/NFCA Coaches Poll.