Fed-up players get controversial 'For Honor' class banned in a tournament
Fed-up players get controversial 'For Honor' class banned in a tournament
's competitive scene is getting off the ground with some of its first competitions and some participants in Major League Gaming's tournaments are calling for a ban on a controversial class: the Peacekeeper. Since came out in February, Peacekeepers have been plaguing players with their superior speed and lack of telegraphing. Every class except Peacekeeper has an indicator for where they are attacking and defending from at all times. The Peacekeeper's only pops up after she starts her attack, making her light attacks extremely difficult to defend against. Fed-up players took to the MLG forums to express their frustration and MLG responded by saying they'll give the ban a try. "For online tournaments, we will try running a tournament with Peacekeeper banned, and then send a poll," online tournament supervisor TheShadow wrote on the forums. "If the community is largely in favor of banning the hero then we will do so." SEE ALSO: 'For Honor' review: a unique blend of hack-and-slash and fighting games, but little else Other competitive fighting games have had characters banned in tournaments to make sure the playing field was level. Akuma was famously banned in competitions for his resistance to stun and his overpowered moves. The forum post that led to this decision by MLG is titled "No Peacekeeper or No Tournament" and was posted by user Clint44Mag. The post details all the reasons why Peacekeeper should be banned: She causes a lack of diversity, she is unfairly strong compared to other classes and she reduces the competitive spirit of . "The [Peacekeeper] should be banned for the same reason steroids are banned in sports" "The PK [Peacekeeper] should be banned for the same reason steroids are banned in sports," Clint44mag wrote. "Without steroids normal athletes are at a major disadvantage to their competition and so the only way to truly compete is to use steroids. The PK is the steroid of — without her on your roster you play at a disadvantage." The reason for this is Peacekeeper's overpowered light attacks. "Although the PK's individual attacks are not the most damaging, her light attack chain is the fastest in the game," he said. " is a fighting game built on mind games and conditioning your opponent. However, when PK is used these tactics are not needed as simply spamming light attacks can usually guarantee hits, even against experienced players." More users chimed in in response to Clint44Mag's post, echoing his anti-Peacekeeper sentiments and participating in his poll asking whether they would participate in the boycott or not. Eleven said they would not play in a tournament with the Peackeeper, only one chose the non-boycott option. Although has been updated since its release, Peacekeeper has not been nerfed at all. We reached out to Ubisoft to see if they had any plans to nerf Peackeeper and will update the story with any new information. WATCH: These are the two most important letters in esports

For Honor's competitive scene is getting off the ground with some of its first competitions and some participants in Major League Gaming's tournaments are calling for a ban on a controversial class: the Peacekeeper.

Since For Honor came out in February, Peacekeepers have been plaguing players with their superior speed and lack of telegraphing. Every class except Peacekeeper has an indicator for where they are attacking and defending from at all times. The Peacekeeper's only pops up after she starts her attack, making her light attacks extremely difficult to defend against.

Fed-up players took to the MLG forums to express their frustration and MLG responded by saying they'll give the ban a try.

"For online tournaments, we will try running a tournament with Peacekeeper banned, and then send a poll," online tournament supervisor TheShadow wrote on the forums. "If the community is largely in favor of banning the hero then we will do so."

Other competitive fighting games have had characters banned in tournaments to make sure the playing field was level. Akuma was famously banned in Street Fighter II Turbo competitions for his resistance to stun and his overpowered moves.

The forum post that led to this decision by MLG is titled "No Peacekeeper or No Tournament" and was posted by user Clint44Mag. The post details all the reasons why Peacekeeper should be banned: She causes a lack of diversity, she is unfairly strong compared to other classes and she reduces the competitive spirit of For Honor.

"The [Peacekeeper] should be banned for the same reason steroids are banned in sports"

"The PK [Peacekeeper] should be banned for the same reason steroids are banned in sports," Clint44mag wrote. "Without steroids normal athletes are at a major disadvantage to their competition and so the only way to truly compete is to use steroids. The PK is the steroid of For Honor — without her on your roster you play at a disadvantage."

The reason for this is Peacekeeper's overpowered light attacks.

"Although the PK's individual attacks are not the most damaging, her light attack chain is the fastest in the game," he said. "For Honor is a fighting game built on mind games and conditioning your opponent. However, when PK is used these tactics are not needed as simply spamming light attacks can usually guarantee hits, even against experienced players."

More users chimed in in response to Clint44Mag's post, echoing his anti-Peacekeeper sentiments and participating in his poll asking whether they would participate in the boycott or not. Eleven said they would not play in a tournament with the Peackeeper, only one chose the non-boycott option.

Although For Honor has been updated since its release, Peacekeeper has not been nerfed at all.

We reached out to Ubisoft to see if they had any plans to nerf Peackeeper and will update the story with any new information.