SiriusXM Celebrates Two Days of Dance at Miami Music Week 2017 With Above & Beyond, Hardwell, Marshmello & More
SiriusXM Celebrates Two Days of Dance at Miami Music Week 2017 With Above & Beyond, Hardwell, Marshmello & More
SiriusXM Celebrates Two Days of Dance at Miami Music Week 2017 With Above & Beyond, Hardwell, Marshmello & More  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  It's a wrap on another Miami Music Week, and SirirusXM and its dedicated listeners came out big winners. The satellite radio provider gave fans a close encounter of the dance music kind with two days of intimate performances from some of the scene's biggest stars. Above & Beyond , Hardwell , Marshmello , Mija , Steve Aoki and more stopped by the beautiful 1 Hotel situated right on the sands of South Beach. The DJs rocked the stage from morning to night, and stopped by for one-on-one interviews between performances. was there to experience the fun first-hand as official media partners. SiriusXM also used the opportunity to present a special edition of its weekly tropical house show , broadcast on Channel 53, with live mixes from Autograf , Lost Frequencies , Nora En Pure , Sons of Maria and more. Listeners may have also caught special sets from Black Coffee, Armin van Buuren , Carl Cox , Martin Garrix and more as part of its live edition of weekly program UMF Radio, Fridays from 6 to 8 p.m. on Channel 52.  If you weren't able to be there in Miami or catch the broadcasts live, you can at least enjoy this recap video below, and stay tuned to throughout the week for our collection of exclusive content thanks to SirirusXM.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

It's a wrap on another Miami Music Week, and SirirusXM and its dedicated listeners came out big winners. The satellite radio provider gave fans a close encounter of the dance music kind with two days of intimate performances from some of the scene's biggest stars.

Above & Beyond, Hardwell, Marshmello, Mija, Steve Aoki and more stopped by the beautiful 1 Hotel situated right on the sands of South Beach. The DJs rocked the stage from morning to night, and stopped by for one-on-one interviews between performances. Billboard Dance was there to experience the fun first-hand as official media partners.

SiriusXM also used the opportunity to present a special edition of its weekly tropical house show House of Chill, broadcast on Channel 53, with live mixes from Autograf, Lost Frequencies, Nora En Pure, Sons of Maria and more. Listeners may have also caught special sets from Black Coffee, Armin van Buuren, Carl Cox, Martin Garrix and more as part of its live edition of weekly program UMF Radio, Fridays from 6 to 8 p.m. on Channel 52.