Andy Cohen Thinks Trump Is Pretty Much Just A 'Real Housewife'
Andy Cohen Thinks Trump Is Pretty Much Just A 'Real Housewife'
After his whole White House stint, President Donald Trump might have a future in the “Real Housewives” franchise. Andy Cohen is convincing the world tweet by tweet that Trump behaves like the cast members on his Bravo reality series. The host shared his latest evidence to his 2 million Twitter followers Tuesday after Trump wondered why the White House isn’t looking into Bill and Hillary Clinton’s alleged ties to Russia. Why isn't the House Intelligence Committee looking into the Bill & Hillary deal that allowed big Uranium to go to Russia, Russian speech.... Deflection just so happens to be a tactic taken right out of the "Housewives Playbook." HOUSEWIVES PLAYBOOK: deflect from the hot seat by focusing on Wives who are no longer on show & ain't coming back. A classic! https://t.co/aq9bJaKQ7Z This isn’t the first parallel Cohen has made between Trump and the “Real Housewives” ladies. Last week, he compared Trump to a first-season cast member “making stuff up to stay on the show.” What about all of the contact with the Clinton campaign and the Russians? Also, is it true that the DNC would not let the FBI in to look? Sweetie you are a first season Real Housewife making stuff up to stay on the show. https://t.co/nwHCj87vrE Cohen also reminded critics that the former “Apprentice” host’s résumé is far better suited for reality TV than government. @fancimimi sweetie he is a reality star who has as much political experience as me. Or you. Or my cab driver. Or Vicki Gunvalson. Or my dog Oh, Andy. ALSO ON HUFFPOST The Real Housewives       Share this slide:       MORE:

After his whole White House stint, President Donald Trump might have a future in the “Real Housewives” franchise.

Andy Cohen is convincing the world tweet by tweet that Trump behaves exactly like the cast members on his Bravo reality series. The host shared his latest evidence to his 2 million Twitter followers Tuesday after Trump wondered why the White House isn’t looking into Bill and Hillary Clinton’s alleged ties to Russia.

Why isn't the House Intelligence Committee looking into the Bill & Hillary deal that allowed big Uranium to go to Russia, Russian speech.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 28, 2017

Deflection just so happens to be a tactic taken right out of the "Housewives Playbook."

HOUSEWIVES PLAYBOOK: deflect from the hot seat by focusing on Wives who are no longer on show & ain't coming back. A classic! https://t.co/aq9bJaKQ7Z — Andy Cohen (@Andy) March 28, 2017

This isn’t the first parallel Cohen has made between Trump and the “Real Housewives” ladies. Last week, he compared Trump to a first-season cast member “making stuff up to stay on the show.”

What about all of the contact with the Clinton campaign and the Russians? Also, is it true that the DNC would not let the FBI in to look? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 20, 2017

Sweetie you are a first season Real Housewife making stuff up to stay on the show. https://t.co/nwHCj87vrE — Andy Cohen (@Andy) March 20, 2017

Cohen also reminded critics that the former “Apprentice” host’s résumé is far better suited for reality TV than government.

@fancimimi sweetie he is a reality star who has as much political experience as me. Or you. Or my cab driver. Or Vicki Gunvalson. Or my dog — Andy Cohen (@Andy) March 20, 2017