Jaime Lannister Has Just Revealed An Important Detail About GoT Season 7 & It's A Major Spoiler!
Jaime Lannister Has Just Revealed An Important Detail About GoT Season 7 & It's A Major Spoiler
Jaime Lannister Has Just Revealed An Important Detail About GoT Season 7 & It's A Major Spoiler! Here's what he said:

Return of Game of Thrones is running a little late this year. While the makers usually air the new seasons in April, this year the fans have to wait until July 16.

The wait is getting difficult, we know, but meanwhile we have a piece of news that just might raise your excitements to another level.

Cersei Lannister (Lena Headey) who has so far been in an incestuous relationship with Jaime Lannister (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau) might just get a new “suitor” in the forthcoming season, and Jaime has himself hinted the same.

ytimg.com

Actually Coster-Waldau never meant to reveal this bit of information, but spilled the beans during an interview by mistake.

Here's what he said:

“[Jaime] knows about people’s weaknesses and loving someone unconditionally — because he loves his sister unconditionally. Plus, there are no other suitors. Well, that’s not true… but he has to step up and take his father’s place. Wow, I was about to reveal something from Season 7 and thought, ‘What am I doing?’,” he was quoted as saying by Daily Beast.

And people have already started guessing who he would be – Euron Greyjoy?

winteriscoming.net

Euron Greyjoy (Pilou Asbæk) was introduced in the second episode of the last season and was elected as the king of Iron Islands over his niece Yara (Gemma Whelan).

Remember when he said that he is going to give Daenerys Targaryen (Emilia Clarke) his fleet and “big c*ck,” but then Yara and Theon (Alfie Allen) reached to Daenerys Targaryen before he could and got her by their side instead?

standard.co.uk

Daenerys and Cersei are already enemies, and so people are speculating if Euron will now reach out to Cersie in season 7, and perhaps play his new suitor, as Coster-Waldau said.

Or the new suitor might be Brienne? What do you think?

Don't Miss 32.6 K SHARES 45.5 K SHARES 20.3 K SHARES 29.5 K SHARES 18.4 K SHARES