'Fresh Prince' Cast Reunited and, of Course, Fans Became Emotional
'Fresh Prince' Cast Reunited and, of Course, Fans Became Emotional
Prepare to feel all kinds of nostalgic. Earlier this week, Will Smith reunited with cast nearly 20 years after the sitcom’s final episode aired. Actor Alfonso Ribeiro, who portrayed Will’s cousin Calrton Banks, shared the moment on Instagram, writing: "Always amazing to spend an afternoon with my Fresh Prince family. Wishing that James Avery (Uncle Phil) was still with us to make this complete." As you can see in the picture above, Tatiana Ali, Karyn Parsons, Daphne Maxwell Reid, and Joseph Marcell joined Smith and Ribeiro. TMZ reports the cast came together to support Parson’s Sweet Blackberry organization, which produces short animated films about African-American history. Twitter predictably freaked out about the reunion, with many people crossing their fingers for a revival . Unfortunately for the hopeful fans, a reboot doesn't seem likely . This photo is probably the closest thing we'll get. the fresh prince of bel air reunion makes me so emosh :( I finished watching the fresh prince series and this reunion picture was uploaded by alfonso (carlton) 😩 i'm a wreck 💖 pic.twitter.com/EPLMw6Kyjh Saw that Fresh Prince reunion pic today almost shed a tear... First things first rest in peace Uncle Phil!!!!! # I am getting real emotional from seeing these reunion pictures from the fresh prince of bel air I'd probably shit my self with excitement if they did a fresh Prince reunion! We need a Fresh Prince reunion! https://t.co/9L7wJAUcW3 If will smith patterns a fresh prince reunion. It will be the most watch TV programme of all time, mark my words 'Fresh Prince of Bel-Air' cast poses for photo, stoking hopes for a reunion

Prepare to feel all kinds of nostalgic.

Earlier this week, Will Smith reunited with The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air cast nearly 20 years after the sitcom’s final episode aired. Actor Alfonso Ribeiro, who portrayed Will’s cousin Calrton Banks, shared the moment on Instagram, writing: "Always amazing to spend an afternoon with my Fresh Prince family. Wishing that James Avery (Uncle Phil) was still with us to make this complete."

As you can see in the picture above, Tatiana Ali, Karyn Parsons, Daphne Maxwell Reid, and Joseph Marcell joined Smith and Ribeiro. TMZ reports the cast came together to support Parson’s Sweet Blackberry organization, which produces short animated films about African-American history.

Twitter predictably freaked out about the reunion, with many people crossing their fingers for a Fresh Prince revival. Unfortunately for the hopeful fans, a reboot doesn't seem likely. This photo is probably the closest thing we'll get.

the fresh prince of bel air reunion makes me so emosh :( — churro (@jichurro) March 28, 2017

I finished watching the fresh prince series and this reunion picture was uploaded by alfonso (carlton) 😩 i'm a wreck 💖 pic.twitter.com/EPLMw6Kyjh — Simba☽ (@SimbaTalks) March 28, 2017

Saw that Fresh Prince reunion pic today almost shed a tear... First things first rest in peace Uncle Phil!!!!! # — Ray (@Llcooray89) March 28, 2017

I am getting real emotional from seeing these reunion pictures from the fresh prince of bel air — annie 🥀 (@101problem_) March 28, 2017

I'd probably shit my self with excitement if they did a fresh Prince reunion! — Liam Scott (@l14mst) March 28, 2017

We need a Fresh Prince reunion! https://t.co/9L7wJAUcW3 — borhan (@Borheezy) March 28, 2017

If will smith patterns a fresh prince reunion. It will be the most watch TV programme of all time, mark my words — skank sinatra™ (@teamLDOTT) March 28, 2017