Ask Your Employers To Let You Take A Power Nap For 20 Minutes Because It Can Help Boost Your Creativity
Ask Your Employers To Let You Take A Power Nap For 20 Minutes Because It Can Help Boost Your Cr
Ask Your Employers To Let You Take A Power Nap For 20 Minutes Because It Can Help Boost Your Creativity Do you often take a nap at your desk and bullied by colleagues for it? Tell them to shut up because a 20-minute power nap in the afternoon is good as it helps people to be more creative and even improves their problem-solving ability. According to scientists from the University of Leeds in England, this nap could reduce the risks of diabetes, heart problems and depression, which are more likely when you do not get enough sleep. “The loss of an hour in bed is particularly detrimental to individuals that already struggle with their sleep,” said lead study author Nerina Ramlakhan. Adding, “If you are one of the 25% of the nation that gets less than five hours’ sleep a night, this time change could see you drop down to as little as four hours, which is a dangerously low amount.” Bosses should consider allowing staff to take a short nap in the office. It can make a huge difference, suggests researchers, reports the Independent. The findings indicated that napping between 2 pm and 4 pm for just, 20 minutes nap can make a huge difference. Naps have been scientifically proven to boost creativity and problem-solving ability and they can even rebalance the immune system, meaning staffs are less likely to take sick days. “Allowing staff to indulge in a nap during the working day might sound unusual, but considering the country will be losing an hour of sleep over the weekend it’s a fair request,” Dr Ramlakhan stated.

Do you often take a nap at your desk and bullied by colleagues for it? Tell them to shut up because a 20-minute power nap in the afternoon is good as it helps people to be more creative and even improves their problem-solving ability.

www.saga.vn

According to scientists from the University of Leeds in England, this nap could reduce the risks of diabetes, heart problems and depression, which are more likely when you do not get enough sleep. “The loss of an hour in bed is particularly detrimental to individuals that already struggle with their sleep,” said lead study author Nerina Ramlakhan. Adding, “If you are one of the 25% of the nation that gets less than five hours’ sleep a night, this time change could see you drop down to as little as four hours, which is a dangerously low amount.”

Bosses should consider allowing staff to take a short nap in the office. It can make a huge difference, suggests researchers, reports the Independent. The findings indicated that napping between 2 pm and 4 pm for just, 20 minutes nap can make a huge difference.

poskotanews.com

Naps have been scientifically proven to boost creativity and problem-solving ability and they can even rebalance the immune system, meaning staffs are less likely to take sick days.

“Allowing staff to indulge in a nap during the working day might sound unusual, but considering the country will be losing an hour of sleep over the weekend it’s a fair request,” Dr Ramlakhan stated.

With inputs from ANI

Don't Miss 46.7 K SHARES 7.4 K SHARES 2.1 K SHARES 970 SHARES