Avoiding All Nuts Simply Because You're Allergic To One Might Be, Well, Nutty
Avoiding All Nuts Simply Because You're Allergic To One Might Be, Well, Nutty
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Rita Rubin       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The conventional wisdom has been that if you’re allergic to one nut, you should assume you're allergic to them all, even ones you’ve never tried. That’s because routine allergy tests, skin prick or blood tests that check for antibodies to specific foods could be positive for a variety of nuts in people who’ve had an allergic reaction to only one type. But new research suggests that avoiding all nuts is overkill. Most people with a peanut allergy aren’t allergic to tree nuts—almonds, cashews, walnuts and the like—while most people who are allergic to a particular tree nut can safely eat others, scientists have found. “This has been an area where there’s been no clarity for a long time,” Dr. Matthew Greenhawt, coauthor of a study about nut allergies published online Monday, told me. “The dirty secret of allergy tests is that they’re very, very accurate when they’re negative, and they’re very difficult to interpret when they’re positive under certain circumstances”—namely, when the patient has never exhibited any allergy symptoms to the food in question or even ever eaten it. In other words, a positive skin prick or blood test “is not a surrogate for being allergic,” said Greenhawt, who chairs the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology Food Allergy Committee and . One reason is that some foods contain similar but not identical proteins. If you're allergic to cashews, for example, you might test positive for pistachio antibodies, even though eating pistachios wouldn't cause you any problems. Interestingly, even some people with known pollen allergies test positive for nut antibodies, even though they're not allergic to nuts. Greenhawt and his coauthors examined the records of 109 children with a known tree nut allergy, 46 of whom also happened to have a peanut allergy. The children, all patients at the University of Michigan, where Greenhawt previously practiced, had undergone skin prick or blood testing for other nuts. They then underwent a total of 156 “oral food challenges,” in which--under the supervision of an allergist who has medications available in case of an allergic reaction--they were given tiny but increasingly larger amounts of a tree nut for which they had tested positive but had never exhibited allergy symptoms. Shutterstock Turns out that most of the children passed the oral food challenges, which means they weren't allergic to the nuts in question, even though their skin prick or blood tests were positive, Greenhawt and his coauthors reported in the . Every single child with a peanut allergy passed an almond oral challenge, suggesting that peanut allergy patients can safely eat that nut without first undergoing a skin prick or blood test or an oral challenge, the researchers concluded. In a related study , published online last week by the journal , Dutch scientists recruited 29 children who were allergic to cashews. Cashews belong to the same family as pistachios and mangoes (who knew?), so children with cashew allergies are usually told to avoid eating the other nut or the fruit. But while all but one of the children tested positive on a skin prick or blood test for pistachio antibodies, two-thirds of them passed an oral challenge with the nut. And they all passed a mango oral challenge. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

The conventional wisdom has been that if you’re allergic to one nut, you should assume you're allergic to them all, even ones you’ve never tried.

That’s because routine allergy tests, skin prick or blood tests that check for antibodies to specific foods could be positive for a variety of nuts in people who’ve had an allergic reaction to only one type.

But new research suggests that avoiding all nuts is overkill. Most people with a peanut allergy aren’t allergic to tree nuts—almonds, cashews, walnuts and the like—while most people who are allergic to a particular tree nut can safely eat others, scientists have found.

“This has been an area where there’s been no clarity for a long time,” Dr. Matthew Greenhawt, coauthor of a study about nut allergies published online Monday, told me. “The dirty secret of allergy tests is that they’re very, very accurate when they’re negative, and they’re very difficult to interpret when they’re positive under certain circumstances”—namely, when the patient has never exhibited any allergy symptoms to the food in question or even ever eaten it.

In other words, a positive skin prick or blood test “is not a surrogate for being allergic,” said Greenhawt, who chairs the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology Food Allergy Committee and co-directs the Children’s Hospital Colorado Food Challenge Unit. One reason is that some foods contain similar but not identical proteins. If you're allergic to cashews, for example, you might test positive for pistachio antibodies, even though eating pistachios wouldn't cause you any problems. Interestingly, even some people with known pollen allergies test positive for nut antibodies, even though they're not allergic to nuts.

Greenhawt and his coauthors examined the records of 109 children with a known tree nut allergy, 46 of whom also happened to have a peanut allergy. The children, all patients at the University of Michigan, where Greenhawt previously practiced, had undergone skin prick or blood testing for other nuts. They then underwent a total of 156 “oral food challenges,” in which--under the supervision of an allergist who has medications available in case of an allergic reaction--they were given tiny but increasingly larger amounts of a tree nut for which they had tested positive but had never exhibited allergy symptoms.

Turns out that most of the children passed the oral food challenges, which means they weren't allergic to the nuts in question, even though their skin prick or blood tests were positive, Greenhawt and his coauthors reported in the Annals of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Every single child with a peanut allergy passed an almond oral challenge, suggesting that peanut allergy patients can safely eat that nut without first undergoing a skin prick or blood test or an oral challenge, the researchers concluded.

In a related study, published online last week by the journal Translational Allergy, Dutch scientists recruited 29 children who were allergic to cashews. Cashews belong to the same family as pistachios and mangoes (who knew?), so children with cashew allergies are usually told to avoid eating the other nut or the fruit. But while all but one of the children tested positive on a skin prick or blood test for pistachio antibodies, two-thirds of them passed an oral challenge with the nut. And they all passed a mango oral challenge.