This London Underground advert is causing a massive sexism row
This London Underground advert is causing a massive sexism row
It worked for Protein World , who made £1 million immediately following their beach body ready campaign, which enraged many. Marsh & Parsons, the London estate agents, have taken a leaf out of their book, with a provocative advert. The poster has gathered an instant negative reaction on social media: Yuk pic.twitter.com/6hE2WkoBUN  @samatlounge 160 years? Have they changed their advertising strategy or agency since they formed?? Bad taste guys and very poorly judged.  Not sure how I feel about this one. Love it or loathe it; it's attention grabbing #marsh &parsons #copyontheunderground  pic.twitter.com/MGFrCde45m  I think Marsh & Parsons may have miscued slightly here. https://t.co/TiHfhSsQZX  What a 1980s chauvinistic advert. Marsh and Parsons have alienated female clients with this advertising campaign. https://t.co/8vg9glmmfd  How much more enlightened @marshandparsons would've seemed if they'd gender reversed this advert pic.twitter.com/Jj6gGrvrdE  High Barnet, Northern Line, OldStreet - Got to love those @marshandparsons ads, this is up there with the double-fronted property version pic.twitter.com/YEAlP4onW7     According to the , David Brown, CEO of Marsh & Parsons, said: Marsh & Parsons has a recent history of tongue-in-cheek advertisements that compare people to property and reflect that the range of people we work with are as diverse as the types of properties we sell and let. The campaign, created by a team of men and women, is designed to be thought-provoking and to prompt conversation, but it was not our intention to cause offence. It would appear that this particular advert - taken apart from the rest of the campaign - has done so and we will be taking steps to remove it as a result.                     Keep scrolling for next article

Sexist tube adverts are a guaranteed way to get your brand talked about, provided it can weather the negative publicity.

It worked for Protein World, who made £1 million immediately following their beach body ready campaign, which enraged many.

Marsh & Parsons, the London estate agents, have taken a leaf out of their book, with a provocative advert.

The poster has gathered an instant negative reaction on social media:

High Barnet, Northern Line, OldStreet - Got to love those @marshandparsons ads, this is up there with the double-fronted property version pic.twitter.com/YEAlP4onW7

According to the Evening Standard, David Brown, CEO of Marsh & Parsons, said:

Marsh & Parsons has a recent history of tongue-in-cheek advertisements that compare people to property and reflect that the range of people we work with are as diverse as the types of properties we sell and let.

The campaign, created by a team of men and women, is designed to be thought-provoking and to prompt conversation, but it was not our intention to cause offence.

It would appear that this particular advert - taken apart from the rest of the campaign - has done so and we will be taking steps to remove it as a result.