EU council president Donald Tusk tells Britain: 'We miss you already'
EU council president Donald Tusk tells Britain: 'We miss you already'
Popular videos    Indian-Americans raise $100,000 for man trying to stop racist shooter      Read Theresa May's full statement on Brexit and triggering Article 50      Theresa May formally begins Brexit negotiations to leave the EU      Jonah Hill directs sitcom horror music video for Danny Brown   Other European countries miss Britain's membership of the EU already, the president of the European Union's leadership council has said. Speaking just minutes after the start of the formal secession process Donald Tusk said there was "no reason to pretend this is a happy day". "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye," he said during a press conference in Brussels reacting to Theresa May's triggering of Article 50.   EU considers plan to let Brits opt-in to keep their EU citizenship Mr Tusk, a Polish national who leads one of the European Union's three pillars, described the process that was about to unfold as "damage control" from the consequences of Brexit. "There is nothing to win in this process and I am talking about both sides. In essence, this is about damage control," he said. Told of Mr Tusk's comments about Brexit while in the House of Commons, Theresa May said: "We’ll still be part of Europe, although we’ll be leaving the EU institutions." Mr Tusk told journalists in Brussels: "What we should stress today is that as for now nothing has changed. Until the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, EU law will continue to apply to and within the UK. "Finally, I would like to say that we have just released an official statement by the European Council in which it is stressed that we will act as one and start negotiations by focusing on key arrangements for an orderly withdrawal. Brexit Concerns               Brexit Concerns    Brexit will put British patients at 'back of the queue' for new drugs   Brexit will put British patients at the “back of the queue” for vital new drugs, the Government has been warned – forcing them to wait up to two years longer

A medicines regulator has raised the alarm over a likely decision to pull out of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as well as the EU itself.
ealth Secretary Jeremy Hunt dropped the bombshell , when he said he expected the UK would quit the EMA – because it is subject to rulings by the European Court of Justice.   Getty Images     London to lose status as 'gateway to Europe' for banks   One of Germany’s top banking regulators has warned that London could lose its status as “gateway to Europe” for the banking sector after Britain quits the European trading bloc. 

Andreas Dombret, who is an executive board member for the Bundesbank—Germany’s central bank—told a private meeting of German businesses and banks earlier this week in Frankfurt that even if banking rules were “equivalent” between the UK and the rest of the EU, that was still “miles away from [Britain having] access to the single market”, the BBC reports.   Jason Hawkes     Exodus   The number of financial sector professionals in Britain and continental Europe looking for jobs in Ireland rocketed in the months after the UK voted to leave the European Union   Shutterstock     Brexit is making FTSE 100 executives richer   Pay packages of many FTSE 100 chief executive officers are partly tied to how well share prices are doing rather than the CEO’s performance -- and some stocks are soaring.
ritish equities got a boost since the June vote because the likes of Rio Tinto, Smiths Group and WPP generate most sales abroad and earn a fortune when they convert these revenues back into the weakened pound. Sterling’s fall also made UK stocks more affordable for overseas investors.   Rex     Theresa May: UK to leave single market   Theresa May has said the UK "cannot possibly" remain within the European single market, as staying in it would mean "not leaving the EU at all".   Getty        Lead campaigner Gina Miller and her team outside the High Court   Getty        Raymond McCord holds up his newly issued Irish passport alongside his British passport outside the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit   PA wire        SDLP leader Colum Eastwood leaving the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit   PA wire        Migrants with luggage walk past a graffiti on a wall as they leave the 'Jungle' migrant camp, as part of a major three-day operation planned to clear the camp  in Calais   Getty        Migrants leave messages on their tents in the Jungle migrant camp   Getty        The Adventist Development and Relief Agency (Adra) which distributes approximately 700 meals daily in the northern Paris camp states that it is noticing a spike in new migrant arrivals this week, potentially linked the the Calais 'jungle' camp closure - with around 1000 meals distributed today   EPA        Migrant workers pick apples at Stocks Farm in Suckley, Britain   Reuters        Many farmers across the country are voicing concerns that Brexit could be a dangerous step into the
unknown for the farming industry   Getty        Bank of England governor Mark Carney who said the long-term outlook for the UK economy is positive, but growth was slowing in the wake of the Brexit vote   PA        The Dow Jones industrial average closed down over 600 points on the news with markets around the globe pluninging   Getty        Immigration officers deal with each member of the public seeking entry into the United Kingdom but on average, 10 a day are refused entry at this London airport and between 2008 and 2009, 33,100 people were detained at the airport for mainly passport irregularities   Getty        A number of global investment giants have threatened to move their European operations out of London if Brexit proves to have a negative impact on their businesses   Getty        Following the possibility of a Brexit the UK would be released from its renewable energy targets under the EU Renewable Energy Directive and from EU state aid restrictions, potentially giving the government more freedom both in the design and phasing out of renewable energy support regimes   Getty        A woman looking at a chart showing the drop in the pound (Sterling) against the US Dollar in London  after Britain voted to leave the EU   Getty        Young protesters outside the Houses of Parliament in Westminster, to protest against the United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU following the referendum   Getty        Applications from Northern Ireland citizens for Irish Passports has soared to a record high after the UK Voted in favour of Leaving the EU   Getty        NFU Vice President Minette Batters with Secretary of State, Andrea Leadsome at the National Farmers Union (NFU) took machinery, produce, farmers and staff to Westminster to encourage Members of Parliament to back British farming, post Brexit   Getty        The latest reports released by the UK Cabinet Office warn that expats would lose a range of specific rights to live, to work and to access pensions, healthcare and public services. The same reports added that UK citizens abroad would not be able to assume that these rights will be guaranteed in the future   Getty        A British resident living in Spain asks questions during an informative Brexit talk by the "Brexpats in Spain" group, about Spanish legal issues to become Spanish citizens, at the town hall in Benalmadena, Spain   Reuters        The collapse of Great Britain appears to have been greatly exaggerated given the late summer crowds visiting city museums, hotels, and other important tourist attractions   Getty        The U.K. should maintain European Union regulations covering everything from working hours to chemicals until after the government sets out its plans for Brexit, said British manufacturers anxious to avoid a policy vacuum and safeguard access to their biggest export market   Getty  "On Friday I will share a proposal of the negotiating guidelines with the member states to be adopted by the European Council on 29 April. I will refer to this and I will commend our proposal on Friday during our press conference with Prime Minister Joseph Muscat in Malta. "What can I add to this? We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." The UK and the EU will now have two years to negotiate Britain's exit from the bloc; if no deal is made by the 2019 deadline Britain will crash out onto WTO rules. The period can be extended by a unanimous vote of EU member states. More about: Brexit Donald Tusk European Union Article 50 Comments

Other European countries miss Britain's membership of the EU already, the president of the European Union's leadership council has said.

Speaking just minutes after the start of the formal secession process Donald Tusk said there was "no reason to pretend this is a happy day".

"We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye," he said during a press conference in Brussels reacting to Theresa May's triggering of Article 50.

Mr Tusk, a Polish national who leads one of the European Union's three pillars, described the process that was about to unfold as "damage control" from the consequences of Brexit.

"There is nothing to win in this process and I am talking about both sides. In essence, this is about damage control," he said.

Told of Mr Tusk's comments about Brexit while in the House of Commons, Theresa May said: "We’ll still be part of Europe, although we’ll be leaving the EU institutions."

Mr Tusk told journalists in Brussels: "What we should stress today is that as for now nothing has changed. Until the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, EU law will continue to apply to and within the UK.

"Finally, I would like to say that we have just released an official statement by the European Council in which it is stressed that we will act as one and start negotiations by focusing on key arrangements for an orderly withdrawal.

Brexit Concerns







26 show all Brexit Concerns

















































1/26 Brexit will put British patients at 'back of the queue' for new drugs Brexit will put British patients at the “back of the queue” for vital new drugs, the Government has been warned – forcing them to wait up to two years longer A medicines regulator has raised the alarm over a likely decision to pull out of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as well as the EU itself. ealth Secretary Jeremy Hunt dropped the bombshell , when he said he expected the UK would quit the EMA – because it is subject to rulings by the European Court of Justice. Getty Images

2/26 London to lose status as 'gateway to Europe' for banks One of Germany’s top banking regulators has warned that London could lose its status as “gateway to Europe” for the banking sector after Britain quits the European trading bloc. Andreas Dombret, who is an executive board member for the Bundesbank—Germany’s central bank—told a private meeting of German businesses and banks earlier this week in Frankfurt that even if banking rules were “equivalent” between the UK and the rest of the EU, that was still “miles away from [Britain having] access to the single market”, the BBC reports. Jason Hawkes

3/26 Exodus The number of financial sector professionals in Britain and continental Europe looking for jobs in Ireland rocketed in the months after the UK voted to leave the European Union Shutterstock

4/26 Brexit is making FTSE 100 executives richer Pay packages of many FTSE 100 chief executive officers are partly tied to how well share prices are doing rather than the CEO’s performance -- and some stocks are soaring. ritish equities got a boost since the June vote because the likes of Rio Tinto, Smiths Group and WPP generate most sales abroad and earn a fortune when they convert these revenues back into the weakened pound. Sterling’s fall also made UK stocks more affordable for overseas investors. Rex

5/26 Theresa May: UK to leave single market Theresa May has said the UK "cannot possibly" remain within the European single market, as staying in it would mean "not leaving the EU at all". Getty

6/26 Lead campaigner Gina Miller and her team outside the High Court Getty

7/26 Raymond McCord holds up his newly issued Irish passport alongside his British passport outside the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit PA wire

8/26 SDLP leader Colum Eastwood leaving the High Court in Belfast following a judges dismissal of the UK's first legal challenges to Brexit PA wire

9/26 Migrants with luggage walk past a graffiti on a wall as they leave the 'Jungle' migrant camp, as part of a major three-day operation planned to clear the camp in Calais Getty

10/26 Migrants leave messages on their tents in the Jungle migrant camp Getty

11/26 The Adventist Development and Relief Agency (Adra) which distributes approximately 700 meals daily in the northern Paris camp states that it is noticing a spike in new migrant arrivals this week, potentially linked the the Calais 'jungle' camp closure - with around 1000 meals distributed today EPA

12/26 Migrant workers pick apples at Stocks Farm in Suckley, Britain Reuters

13/26 Many farmers across the country are voicing concerns that Brexit could be a dangerous step into the unknown for the farming industry Getty

14/26 Bank of England governor Mark Carney who said the long-term outlook for the UK economy is positive, but growth was slowing in the wake of the Brexit vote PA

15/26 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down over 600 points on the news with markets around the globe pluninging Getty

16/26 Immigration officers deal with each member of the public seeking entry into the United Kingdom but on average, 10 a day are refused entry at this London airport and between 2008 and 2009, 33,100 people were detained at the airport for mainly passport irregularities Getty

17/26 A number of global investment giants have threatened to move their European operations out of London if Brexit proves to have a negative impact on their businesses Getty

18/26 Following the possibility of a Brexit the UK would be released from its renewable energy targets under the EU Renewable Energy Directive and from EU state aid restrictions, potentially giving the government more freedom both in the design and phasing out of renewable energy support regimes Getty

19/26 A woman looking at a chart showing the drop in the pound (Sterling) against the US Dollar in London after Britain voted to leave the EU Getty

20/26 Young protesters outside the Houses of Parliament in Westminster, to protest against the United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU following the referendum Getty

21/26 Applications from Northern Ireland citizens for Irish Passports has soared to a record high after the UK Voted in favour of Leaving the EU Getty

22/26 NFU Vice President Minette Batters with Secretary of State, Andrea Leadsome at the National Farmers Union (NFU) took machinery, produce, farmers and staff to Westminster to encourage Members of Parliament to back British farming, post Brexit Getty

23/26 The latest reports released by the UK Cabinet Office warn that expats would lose a range of specific rights to live, to work and to access pensions, healthcare and public services. The same reports added that UK citizens abroad would not be able to assume that these rights will be guaranteed in the future Getty

24/26 A British resident living in Spain asks questions during an informative Brexit talk by the "Brexpats in Spain" group, about Spanish legal issues to become Spanish citizens, at the town hall in Benalmadena, Spain Reuters

25/26 The collapse of Great Britain appears to have been greatly exaggerated given the late summer crowds visiting city museums, hotels, and other important tourist attractions Getty

26/26 The U.K. should maintain European Union regulations covering everything from working hours to chemicals until after the government sets out its plans for Brexit, said British manufacturers anxious to avoid a policy vacuum and safeguard access to their biggest export market Getty

"On Friday I will share a proposal of the negotiating guidelines with the member states to be adopted by the European Council on 29 April. I will refer to this and I will commend our proposal on Friday during our press conference with Prime Minister Joseph Muscat in Malta.

"What can I add to this? We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye."

The UK and the EU will now have two years to negotiate Britain's exit from the bloc; if no deal is made by the 2019 deadline Britain will crash out onto WTO rules. The period can be extended by a unanimous vote of EU member states.