Hip-Hop Legend DMC On Why Innovation Is Key For Success
Hip-Hop Legend DMC On Why Innovation Is Key For Success
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Natalie Robehmed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Hip-Hop forefather Darryl "DMC" McDaniels, one third of legendary rap group Run-DMC, remembers when MTV started putting rap videos in rotation. "When we were on TV globally, it was new to the world," said McDaniels of their 1984 hit "Rock Box," the first video by a hip-hop group to air on the channel. "It wasn't new to us." The New York native first heard hip-hop in the schoolyard. It wasn't long before he wanted to become a DJ; it was only when Joseph "Rev. Run" Simmons found his notebook of rhymes that he convinced him to become a rapper, McDaniels recalled. 2014 Getty Images Darryl McDaniels (L) and Joseph Simmons (R) of Run-DMC pioneered the business of hip-hop. (Photo by Stephen Lovekin/Getty Images for Bud Light) With Joseph "Jam Master Jay" Mizell, the trio went on to form Run-D.M.C. Among a plethora of groundbreaking achievements, they became the first rap group to release a platinum record, to be played on MTV and to cover . They did all this with a rock-infused sound while sporting Adidas--and landed the first ever hip-hop shoe deal with the athletic company in the process. "When it comes to business, art, education even, innovation is key for growth and success," said McDaniels. Speaking to FORBES in Austin, Texas, at the Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Hip-Hop forefather Darryl "DMC" McDaniels, one third of legendary rap group Run-DMC, remembers when MTV started putting rap videos in rotation.

"When we were on TV globally, it was new to the world," said McDaniels of their 1984 hit "Rock Box," the first video by a hip-hop group to air on the channel. "It wasn't new to us."

The New York native first heard hip-hop in the schoolyard. It wasn't long before he wanted to become a DJ; it was only when Joseph "Rev. Run" Simmons found his notebook of rhymes that he convinced him to become a rapper, McDaniels recalled.

2014 Getty Images

With Joseph "Jam Master Jay" Mizell, the trio went on to form Run-D.M.C. Among a plethora of groundbreaking achievements, they became the first rap group to release a platinum record, to be played on MTV and to cover Rolling Stone. They did all this with a rock-infused sound while sporting Adidas--and landed the first ever hip-hop shoe deal with the athletic company in the process.

"When it comes to business, art, education even, innovation is key for growth and success," said McDaniels.

Speaking to FORBES in Austin, Texas, at the 2017 SXSW Conference & Festivals, he detailed the group's rise, his struggle with depression and alcohol, his comic book company and much more.

Watch the video above for a taste of the conversation.

Follow me on Twitter.