James Corden Adds a 'Touch' of Little Mix to 'Late Late Show'
James Corden Adds a 'Touch' of Little Mix to 'Late Late Show'
James Corden Adds a 'Touch' of Little Mix to 'Late Late Show'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Late-night host James Coren repped for his home country's pop music on Tuesday night (Mar. 28) with a guest appearance from British girl group Little Mix . The group played their single "Touch," giving the dancehall-flavored hit the spirited performance it deserves, delighting their screaming fans, who they walked among towards the end of the song. Little Mix are coming off a triumphant outing at the 2017 Brit Awards in February, where the quartet kicked off the main show with a barnstorming performance of "Shout Out to My Ex," and later took home British Single of the Year for that chart-topping smash. However, they did take a loss in the most recent round of 's Should-Be-Bigger Bracket, as the top-seeded group was upset in the Elite Eight by the suddenly unstoppable alternative band Hey Violet.  Watch Little Mix's fine performance below, and catch the group on their upcoming international Glory Days Tour, kicking off in England on May 21.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Late-night host James Coren repped for his home country's pop music on Tuesday night (Mar. 28) with a guest appearance from British girl group Little Mix. The group played their Glory Days single "Touch," giving the dancehall-flavored hit the spirited performance it deserves, delighting their screaming fans, who they walked among towards the end of the song.

Little Mix are coming off a triumphant outing at the 2017 Brit Awards in February, where the quartet kicked off the main show with a barnstorming performance of "Shout Out to My Ex," and later took home British Single of the Year for that chart-topping smash. However, they did take a loss in the most recent round of Billboard's Should-Be-Bigger Bracket, as the top-seeded group was upset in the Elite Eight by the suddenly unstoppable alternative band Hey Violet.

Watch Little Mix's fine Late Late Show performance below, and catch the group on their upcoming international Glory Days Tour, kicking off in England on May 21.