NCAA official John Higgins receiving death threats from Kentucky Wildcats fans following loss to North Carolina Tar Heels
Sources: Ref gets death threats from UK fans
Sources: Ref gets death threats from UK fans A tale of two shots: UNC vs. Villanova, 2016 From tree to tipoff How each Final Four team will (or won't) be the last one standing Lonzo Ball: 'I'm better' than Washington's Fultz Wolfpack freshman Smith to enter NBA draft College basketball's coaching carousel: Who's in, who's out? Seth Greenberg reacts to NCAA referee John Higgins receiving death threats from Kentucky fans after the Wildcats' loss to UNC in the Elite Eight. (1:45) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Jeff Goodman Joined ESPN as a college basketball Insider in June 2013 Previously wrote for CBSSports.com and FOXSports.com Dana O'Neil College basketball reporter. Joined ESPN in 2007. Graduate of Penn State University. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment NCAA referee John Higgins met with law enforcement for more than two hours Tuesday after Kentucky fans sent death threats, repeatedly called his company's office and home -- despite an unlisted number -- and posted a barrage of false messages about his business on the company's Facebook page, sources told ESPN. Higgins worked Sunday's Elite Eight game between Kentucky and North Carolina , which the Tar Heels won 75-73 on Luke Maye 's buzzer-beating jumper. The Wildcats were whistled for 19 fouls, including two each on Malik Monk , De'Aaron Fox and Bam Adebayo in the first half, a fact that Kentucky coach John Calipari didn't let go unnoticed. "You know, it's amazing that we were in that game where they practically fouled out my team," Calipari said. "Amazing that we had a chance." Kentucky fan websites and message boards identified Higgins as making incorrect calls against the Wildcats. Calipari's statements, message board chatter and their own fury prompted some Kentucky fans to write false and damaging messages on the Facebook site of Higgins' company, John Higgins Weatherguard Inc., as reported by several outlets Tuesday. But the nastiness went well beyond those posts. Sources said the phones at Higgins' home and business, also known as Rooferees, have been "ringing off the hook" since the game, with angry Kentucky fans calling to complain and some even going so far as to make death threats. That prompted a meeting with law enforcement. Higgins declined to comment when reached by phone, but sources said the official will work the Final Four in Glendale, Arizona. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Seth Greenberg reacts to NCAA referee John Higgins receiving death threats from Kentucky fans after the Wildcats' loss to UNC in the Elite Eight. (1:45)

NCAA referee John Higgins met with law enforcement for more than two hours Tuesday after Kentucky fans sent death threats, repeatedly called his company's office and home -- despite an unlisted number -- and posted a barrage of false messages about his business on the company's Facebook page, sources told ESPN.

Higgins worked Sunday's Elite Eight game between Kentucky and North Carolina, which the Tar Heels won 75-73 on Luke Maye's buzzer-beating jumper. The Wildcats were whistled for 19 fouls, including two each on Malik Monk, De'Aaron Fox and Bam Adebayo in the first half, a fact that Kentucky coach John Calipari didn't let go unnoticed.

"You know, it's amazing that we were in that game where they practically fouled out my team," Calipari said. "Amazing that we had a chance."

Kentucky fan websites and message boards identified Higgins as making incorrect calls against the Wildcats. Calipari's statements, message board chatter and their own fury prompted some Kentucky fans to write false and damaging messages on the Facebook site of Higgins' company, John Higgins Weatherguard Inc., as reported by several outlets Tuesday.

But the nastiness went well beyond those posts. Sources said the phones at Higgins' home and business, also known as Rooferees, have been "ringing off the hook" since the game, with angry Kentucky fans calling to complain and some even going so far as to make death threats.

That prompted a meeting with law enforcement.

Higgins declined to comment when reached by phone, but sources said the official will work the Final Four in Glendale, Arizona.