Academy announces changes after Oscars best picture flub
Academy announces changes after Oscars best picture flub
Shares               The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is putting new protocols in place to prevent a mistake like last month's best picture flub from ever happening at the Oscars again. "La La Land" was mistakenly announced as the best picture winner at the 89th annual Academy Awards after the presenters for the award, Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty , were given the wrong envelope by one of the two accountants backstage. The mistake was eventually corrected and "Moonlight" was declared the real winner. To avoid mistakes going forward, the academy announced in an email to members this morning that a third accountant will be seated in the control room during future shows to ensure a more rapid response to any possible mistakes and all electronic devices will not be permitted backstage.     PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm that tallies the Oscars votes, ultimately took responsibility for the gaffe the day after the show. "At the end of the day, we made a human error," Tim Ryan, the U.S. chairman and senior partner of PwC, told USA Today last month. "We made a mistake. What happened was, our partner on the left side of the stage, Brian Cullinan, he handed the wrong envelope to Warren Beatty. And then the second we realized that, we notified the appropriate parties and corrected the mistake." The academy will continue to work with PwC for future awards shows; however, the two accountants involved in this year's confusion, Cullinan and Martha Ruiz, will not work the Oscars again, PwC announced earlier this month. Shares                  Academy announces changes after Oscars best picture flub   How 'Dance Moms' may continue without Abby Lee Miller   Bob Dylan to collect his Nobel Prize in Stockholm privately   'Property Brothers' stars Drew and Jonathan Scott open up about romance, settling down   25 works added to the National Recording Registry   Anthony Anderson on what to expect as Chris Brown guest-stars on 'Black-ish'   Family, close friends gather for George Michael's funeral   'DWTS' pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy taking injury 'very seriously'   Jackie Evancho wants to tell Trump of the 'horrors' her transgender sister has faced   Ivanka Trump taking formal role in administration amid ethics concerns   Senate intel leaders pledge Russia probe cooperation   Woman in custody after 'criminal' incident near Capitol; police say 'no nexus to terrorism'   State Department employee concealed contact with Chinese foreign agents: officials   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life   Bride surprises grandmother in hospital after wedding   Kid suffers 3rd-degree burns after DIY slime project   After winning shot, college star gets standing ovation in morning class   Firefighters rescue kitten stuck inside wall   Runners help fatigued racer to half-marathon finish line   Firefighters shave heads to support colleague's son with cancer

The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is putting new protocols in place to prevent a mistake like last month's best picture flub from ever happening at the Oscars again.

"La La Land" was mistakenly announced as the best picture winner at the 89th annual Academy Awards after the presenters for the award, Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty, were given the wrong envelope by one of the two accountants backstage. The mistake was eventually corrected and "Moonlight" was declared the real winner.

To avoid mistakes going forward, the academy announced in an email to members this morning that a third accountant will be seated in the control room during future shows to ensure a more rapid response to any possible mistakes and all electronic devices will not be permitted backstage.

PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm that tallies the Oscars votes, ultimately took responsibility for the gaffe the day after the show.

"At the end of the day, we made a human error," Tim Ryan, the U.S. chairman and senior partner of PwC, told USA Today last month. "We made a mistake. What happened was, our partner on the left side of the stage, Brian Cullinan, he handed the wrong envelope to Warren Beatty. And then the second we realized that, we notified the appropriate parties and corrected the mistake."

The academy will continue to work with PwC for future awards shows; however, the two accountants involved in this year's confusion, Cullinan and Martha Ruiz, will not work the Oscars again, PwC announced earlier this month.