Rank the best MVP performances in past McDonald's All-American Games
Rank the best MVP performances in past McDonald's All-American Games
Rank the best MVP performances in past McDonald's All-American Games Vote: What do you think of Messi's four-match suspension? Vote: Are LeBron and the Cavs in trouble? Poll: How do you feel about the Raiders moving to Las Vegas? Young Warriors fan meets Curry after earlier mix-up with his tickets Vote: Four burning questions heading into Final Four Vote: Who will be the next coach at Indiana? Vote: Who will win the Hart Memorial Trophy this season? Vote: What are the biggest problems impacting pace of play in NFL games? Minor league team's promise to fans: Tebow + 3 strikeouts = free Whoppers Vote: Who will win the World Baseball Classic? Mets minor leaguer pays the price for parking in deGrom's spot Vote: Who will advance to the Final Four from each region? Vote: Do you think Trump's beef with Kaepernick has deterred teams from signing the QB? Vote: Which recently retired MLB player should be the next to go on Dancing with the Stars? Vote: Who will win the World Baseball Classic semifinal matchups? Vote: How do you feel about NBA teams sitting star players toward end of regular season? Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The 40th annual McDonald's All-American Game will tip off Wednesday night at the United Center in Chicago (7 p.m. ET on ESPN). A rite of passage for the nation's top high-school basketball talent, the prestigious exhibition has featured several future Hall of Famers throughout the years. Many of them received the game's MVP honors before heading off to the college ranks or jumping straight to the NBA. Take a look back at these past MVP performances and decide which ones you think stand above the rest. Use the arrows to the left of each player to move them up the list into your preferred order. The 2016 game included two players who are in this year's Final Four: Zach Collins of Gonzaga and Tony Bradley of North Carolina, in addition to Lonzo Ball of UCLA, Josh Jackson of Kansas, and Malik Monk and De'Aaron Fox of Kentucky. Tonight's game features Missouri-bound Michael Porter Jr., the Gatorade National Player of the Year from Nathan Hale High School in Seattle. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The 40th annual McDonald's All-American Game will tip off Wednesday night at the United Center in Chicago (7 p.m. ET on ESPN).

A rite of passage for the nation's top high-school basketball talent, the prestigious exhibition has featured several future Hall of Famers throughout the years. Many of them received the game's MVP honors before heading off to the college ranks or jumping straight to the NBA.

Take a look back at these past MVP performances and decide which ones you think stand above the rest. Use the arrows to the left of each player to move them up the list into your preferred order.

The 2016 game included two players who are in this year's Final Four: Zach Collins of Gonzaga and Tony Bradley of North Carolina, in addition to Lonzo Ball of UCLA, Josh Jackson of Kansas, and Malik Monk and De'Aaron Fox of Kentucky.

Tonight's game features Missouri-bound Michael Porter Jr., the Gatorade National Player of the Year from Nathan Hale High School in Seattle.