Mike Zimmer Says He Has 'No Idea' If Teddy Bridgewater Will Play in 2017 Season
Mike Zimmer Says He Has 'No Idea' If Teddy Bridgewater Will Play in 2017 Season
Minnesota Vikings head coach Mike Zimmer said he has "no idea" if quarterback Teddy Bridgewater will be able to play during the 2017 season, according to Chris Tomasson of the . "There's no timetable," Zimmer added . "When he's ready, he's ready." Ian Rapoport of NFL Network added more on Bridgewater's rehabilitation process: #Vikings coach Mike Zimmer said Teddy Bridgewater comes up once a month for a week for rehab. Running on land a bit. Focusing on strength Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Andy Clayton-King/Associated Press

Minnesota Vikings head coach Mike Zimmer said he has "no idea" if quarterback Teddy Bridgewater will be able to play during the 2017 season, according to Chris Tomasson of the St. Paul Pioneer Press.

"There's no timetable," Zimmer added. "When he's ready, he's ready."

Ian Rapoport of NFL Network added more on Bridgewater's rehabilitation process:

"He's getting to where his range of motion is better," Zimmer also noted, per Tomasson. "... He's starting to get on land now. I know he's been running in the pool."

Bridgewater, 24, suffered a dislocated knee and a torn ACL in an August practice before the 2016 regular season. It was a devastating injury, putting Bridgewater's future in doubt and leaving the Vikings without a starting quarterback, though the team ultimately traded for Sam Bradford.

While Bridgewater's time frame for returning remains unknown, he appears to be progressing nicely in his rehabilitation.

"I think he's in a good frame of mind," Zimmer said. "The last time I saw him he was in a good frame of mind."

While Zimmer acknowledged "We're looking to get some things done," when asked if the Vikings would add a veteran backup behind Bradford, he also noted that Bridgewater remains a part of his future plans.

"I want Teddy," he said. "I don't want him going somewhere else."