Brexit is Britain's chance to show what Europe is really about: liberty, democracy, and true national diversity
Brexit is Britain's chance to show what Europe is really about: liberty, democracy, and true national diversity
t ought to come as no surprise that one of the great Brexiteer heroes is actually French. I’m referring, of course, to Charles de Gaulle, who as France’s president twice vetoed the UK’s bid to join what was then the European Economic Community. When de Gaulle said “Non” in 1963 and again in 1967, the British were outraged : given that the UK did so much to make Le Général who he was, harbouring Free French troops and tolerating his many conceits, how could he possibly repay us in this way? Yet he was doing Britain a favour: we were the wrong country seeking to join the wrong club. Signing up to the project would eventually require the UK to accept a vision that was incompatible with Britain’s internationalist island mindset, its own successful, evolved institutions and its view, not disproved by the horrors of self-imposed fascism or Nazi or Soviet occupation, that democratic people power...

It ought to come as no surprise that one of the great Brexiteer heroes is actually French. I’m referring, of course, to Charles de Gaulle, who as France’s president twice vetoed the UK’s bid to join what was then the European Economic Community. When de Gaulle said “Non” in 1963 and again in 1967, the British were outraged: given that the UK did so much to make Le Général who he was, harbouring Free French troops and tolerating his many conceits, how could he possibly repay us in this way?

Yet he was doing Britain a favour: we were the wrong country seeking to join the wrong club. Signing up to the project would eventually require the UK to accept a vision that was incompatible with Britain’s internationalist island mindset, its own successful, evolved institutions and its view, not disproved by the horrors of self-imposed fascism or Nazi or Soviet occupation, that democratic people power...