Alleged getaway driver 'instructed' slain teen burglary suspects to rob home, court documents say
Alleged getaway driver 'instructed' slain teen burglary suspects to rob home, court documents say
Shares               The alleged getaway driver now facing possible murder charges in the fatal shooting of three teen burglary suspects outside Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Monday allegedly "instructed" the trio to rob the house, according to a probable cause affidavit. On Tuesday, police with the Wagoner County Sheriff's Office identified the alleged driver as 21-year-old Elizabeth Marie Rodriguez. Authorities also released the names and ages of the slain teens: Maxwell Cook, 19; Jacob Redfearn, 17; and Jaycob Woodruff, 16.   Authorities said that around 12:30 p.m. Monday, Zach Peters, the son of the homeowner, called 911 to report that people had broken into his home and that he'd shot them in the kitchen area with an AR-15 rifle. Peters was in the house with his father at the time, police said. Neither were hurt. In a 911 recording released today, Peters tells the operator that the alleged burglars were shot in the upper body and that he can hear one of the alleged burglars still talking. "I'm barricaded in my bedroom," he says. "I am still armed in the southeast corner of my house." Police said when they arrived, they found three deceased male teenagers. Two were in the kitchen area of the house; one appeared to have run from the home after being shot but had died in the driveway. Chief Deputy Les Young said the teens had been shot multiple times. In According to police, Rodriguez turned herself into authorities after the shooting, allegedly saying that she had information about the incident. According to the affidavit, Rodriguez told police that she'd dropped the teens off at the residence and was waiting for them to return. The affidavit said that she "willfully" took the teens to the house and only left when she heard gunshots. "It was learned through a witness at the scene that Rodriguez had previous knowledge of the house and the homeowner even [called] him by his first name," the affidavit said. "Rodriguez planned the burglary and took the three suspects to the residence on two separate occasions on today's date wanting to steal items." Rodriguez was arrested on three counts of felony first-degree murder (for deaths that occur during the commission of a felony), three counts of first-degree burglary and one count of second-degree burglary. She has yet to be formally charged. Authorities said they had not determined if Peters would face charges. Oklahoma has a " stand your ground " law. State law presumes homeowners have a fear that justifies use of defensive force just by virtue of someone breaking into a home. Rodriguez is scheduled to appear in court on April 5. Shares                  Alleged getaway driver 'instructed' slain teen burglary suspects to rob home, court documents say   Woman in custody after 'criminal' incident near Capitol; police say 'no nexus to terrorism'   Chris Christie denies rift with Jared Kushner, says they 'get along just great'   Ex-Christie aide gets prison term for bridge revenge plot   Ford recalls 570K vehicles for fire risk, door latch trouble   Dallas-area storms leave nearly 200,000 without power   3 storm chasers die in Texas car crash, authorities say   First lady helps present courage awards to 13 women   Pope demands 'urgent' action to protect civilians in Iraq   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life   Bride surprises grandmother in hospital after wedding   Kid suffers 3rd-degree burns after DIY slime project   After winning shot, college star gets standing ovation in morning class   Firefighters rescue kitten stuck inside wall   Runners help fatigued racer to half-marathon finish line   Firefighters shave heads to support colleague's son with cancer   Newborns Romeo and Juliet take Shakespeare-themed photo shoot   Jordan FM says Arab summit ends with 'message of peace'   Undercover videos of fetal tissue talks spur felony charges   US stock indexes veer higher as consumer confidence gains   Missing teen, ex-teacher may be in Mexico: Officials   Teacher visited teen at work before alleged kidnapping, sister says   Emails between allegedly kidnapped teen and former teacher reveal 'romantic interest,' says DA   Londoners pay tribute to Westminster attack victims   UK formally triggers Brexit process: What's next?   Joy, sorrow: People in UK, Europe react to Brexit triggering   Black women stand up on Twitter after Maxine Waters dig   US judge to hear arguments on longer block to travel ban   Jackie Evancho wants to tell Trump of the 'horrors' her transgender sister has faced   Emma Thompson slams Hollywood's 'evil' obsession with being thin   'DWTS' pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy taking injury 'very seriously'   Reporter's notebook: What I learned from being in a metabolic chamber

The alleged getaway driver now facing possible murder charges in the fatal shooting of three teen burglary suspects outside Tulsa, Oklahoma, on Monday allegedly "instructed" the trio to rob the house, according to a probable cause affidavit.

On Tuesday, police with the Wagoner County Sheriff's Office identified the alleged driver as 21-year-old Elizabeth Marie Rodriguez. Authorities also released the names and ages of the slain teens: Maxwell Cook, 19; Jacob Redfearn, 17; and Jaycob Woodruff, 16.

Killing of 3 teens during burglary may test Oklahoma 'stand your ground' law

Authorities said that around 12:30 p.m. Monday, Zach Peters, the son of the homeowner, called 911 to report that people had broken into his home and that he'd shot them in the kitchen area with an AR-15 rifle. Peters was in the house with his father at the time, police said. Neither were hurt.

In a 911 recording released today, Peters tells the operator that the alleged burglars were shot in the upper body and that he can hear one of the alleged burglars still talking.

"I'm barricaded in my bedroom," he says. "I am still armed in the southeast corner of my house."

Police said when they arrived, they found three deceased male teenagers. Two were in the kitchen area of the house; one appeared to have run from the home after being shot but had died in the driveway. Chief Deputy Les Young said the teens had been shot multiple times.

In According to police, Rodriguez turned herself into authorities after the shooting, allegedly saying that she had information about the incident.

According to the affidavit, Rodriguez told police that she'd dropped the teens off at the residence and was waiting for them to return. The affidavit said that she "willfully" took the teens to the house and only left when she heard gunshots.

"It was learned through a witness at the scene that Rodriguez had previous knowledge of the house and the homeowner even [called] him by his first name," the affidavit said. "Rodriguez planned the burglary and took the three suspects to the residence on two separate occasions on today's date wanting to steal items."

Rodriguez was arrested on three counts of felony first-degree murder (for deaths that occur during the commission of a felony), three counts of first-degree burglary and one count of second-degree burglary. She has yet to be formally charged.

Authorities said they had not determined if Peters would face charges. Oklahoma has a "stand your ground" law. State law presumes homeowners have a fear that justifies use of defensive force just by virtue of someone breaking into a home.

Rodriguez is scheduled to appear in court on April 5.