Taiwan toddler bitten by horse has finger sewed to stomach
Toddler bitten by a horse has his finger sewed to stomach


Doctors have attached a toddler’s finger to his stomach after half of it was bitten clean off by a horse he was trying to feed.

The unnamed Taiwanese one-year-old was lifted over the barriers to give hay to one of the animals at a ranch by his mother - ignoring all safety guidelines.

But when he was dangled over the two wooden fences, the large black horse snapped at the food in his hand and bit part of his index finger off.

Surgeons had to attach a one-year-old's finger to his stomach to prevent any infections after part of it was bitten off by a horse

His mother, Liu Ching-wen, 41, panicked and 'didn't dare look', but managed to pick up her son's severed finger.

An ambulance was immediately called to the Weichuan Pushin Ranch in Taoyuan City to rush him away for emergency treatment.

Surgeons spent three hours operating on the boy, but in the end opted against reattaching the severed finger right away.

They explained that because the digit was chowed upon by the horse, it was likely to have harmful bacteria.

The Taiwanese one-year-old was lifted over the barriers to give hay to one of the animals at a ranch by his mother, Liu Ching-wen, 41, - ignoring all safety guidelines

Instead of taking the potentially deadly risk, they decided to attach his finger to his stomach.

They wrapped the remaining section of finger with his abdominal skin, while the severed portion is currently being disinfected.

Only once the doctors give the all-clear will they attempt to restore his finger to its previous, healthy state.

Ms Liu, who called the incident 'the worst day of her life', has blamed the ranch for lacking adequate safety equipment.

However, her protests have fallen on deaf ears as the popular tourist site was found to have installed numerous warning signs about not crossing the boundaries.

The ranch, which first opened in 1957, has promised to help the family in any way possible, but they have not said whether they would be offering compensation.