U.S. Senate Intelligence Leaders Detail Russian Meddling Probe
U.S. Senate Intelligence Leaders Detail Russian Meddling Probe   
Biography Byron Tau @ByronTau byron.tau@wsj.com WASHINGTON—The Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee offered assurances Wednesday that their investigation into purported Russian interference in the 2016 election was progressing smoothly after a similar probe by the House was plunged into chaos this week. Sens. Richard Burr of North Carolina and Mark Warner of Virginia—the Republican chairman and Democratic ranking member of the Senate Intelligence committee, respectively—made a rare joint appearance, saying their investigation had... Most Popular Videos  North Korean Defectors Struggle to Master Money  Samsung Galaxy S8: Longer Screen, New AI Assistant  Brexit Begins: What Happens Next   Young Riders Saddle Up on Hobbyhorses    Your Child Was Rejected by Top College Choice. Now What?  Most Popular Articles      More Than Half of Senate Democrats Say They Will Vote Against Neil Gorsuch        Opinion: Is the Ivy League’s Admission Bias a ‘Trade Secret’?        BlackRock Bets on Robots to Improve Its Stock Picking        Russia Investigation Stalls in House        Elon Musk’s Latest Startup: Brains Linked to Computers

Sens. Mark Warner (D., Va.), left. and Richard Burr (R., N.C.) on Wednesday pledged to get to the bottom of Russian interference in the election, aiming to show that their probe wouldn't suffer the same fate as the problematic House version. WSJ’s Jerry Seib explains the state of the investigation. Photo: Getty

WASHINGTON—The Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee offered assurances Wednesday that their investigation into purported Russian interference in the 2016 election was progressing smoothly after a similar probe by the House was plunged into chaos this week.

Sens. Richard Burr of North Carolina and Mark Warner of Virginia—the Republican chairman and Democratic ranking member of the Senate Intelligence committee, respectively—made a rare joint appearance, saying their investigation had...