2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Announces 'The Life of Jenni Rivera' Panel
2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Announces 'The Life of Jenni Rivera' Panel 
2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference Announces 'The Life of Jenni Rivera' Panel  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The Telemundo-sponsored panel "The Life of Jenni Rivera " is set to take place at the annual 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference in Miami on April 25. The discussion,Â which will focus on how theÂ family and Spanish network worked together to create an authentic look into her life, will be moderatedÂ byÂ Telemundo and NBC UniversoÂ host Jorge BernalÂ with panelists:Â Rivera's daughter Chiquis, sister Rosie Rivera and Telemundo'sÂ SVP of Programming & Content Glenda Pacanins. Telemundo recently unveiled the cast for its forthcoming Rivera family-authorizedÂ television series , inspired by Rivera's autobiography Â and testimonies from her family.  The 2017Â Billboard Latin Music Conference will kick off April 24 with more panels and panelists set to be announced in the upcoming weeks leading up the conference. Other confirmed panelists for the conference include Latin superstarsÂ Residente, Maluma , Farruko , Ednita Nazario Â Joss Favela and Manuel Medrano , among others. The Billboard Latin Music Awards are the culmination of the Billboard Latin Music Conference, taking place April 24-27 at the Ritz Carlton Miami Beach. To register, visit BillboardLatinConference.com .  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Jenni Rivera performs at 2010 Lilith Fair at Cricket Wireless Amphitheatre on July 7, 2010 in San Diego.

The Telemundo-sponsored panel "The Life of Jenni Rivera" is set to take place at the annual 2017 Billboard Latin Music Conference in Miami on April 25.

The discussion,Â which will focus on how theÂ family and Spanish network worked together to create an authentic look into her life, will be moderatedÂ byÂ Telemundo and NBC UniversoÂ host Jorge BernalÂ with panelists:Â Rivera's daughter Chiquis, sister Rosie Rivera and Telemundo'sÂ SVP of Programming & Content Glenda Pacanins.

Telemundo recently unveiled the cast for its forthcoming Rivera family-authorizedÂ television series Mariposa de Barrio, inspired by Rivera's autobiographyÂ UnbreakableÂ and testimonies from her family.

The 2017Â Billboard Latin Music Conference will kick off April 24 with more panels and panelists set to be announced in the upcoming weeks leading up the conference.

Other confirmed panelists for the conference include Latin superstarsÂ Residente, Maluma, Farruko, Ednita NazarioÂ Joss Favela and Manuel Medrano, among others.

The Billboard Latin Music Awards are the culmination of the Billboard Latin Music Conference, taking place April 24-27 at the Ritz Carlton Miami Beach. To register, visit BillboardLatinConference.com.