13 Killed in Texas as Church Bus and Pickup Truck Collide
13 Killed in Texas as Church Bus and Pickup Truck Collide
Thirteen people who were on their way home from a church retreat in southwest Texas were killed Wednesday afternoon when their bus collided head-on with a pickup truck, officials said. The bus, which was carrying 14 people, most of them parishioners in their 50s or older from First Baptist Church in New Braunfels, was traveling south on Route 83, about 100 miles west of San Antonio, when it collided with a Dodge pickup just before 12:30 p.m., according to Lt. Johnny Hernandez, a spokesman for the Texas Department of Public Safety, and Barron Casteel, the mayor of New Braunfels. The driver of the pickup, the truck’s only occupant, and one other were injured, Lieutenant Hernandez said. It was not yet clear how the crash occurred, he said. Mr. Casteel called the church a “pillar” of the community that has long been involved in youth programs. “It’s just awfully sad,” he said. “All of us will be affected because we’re a small town and we’re going to be part of those families who lost loved ones.” The families were working to recover the bodies of the deceased, he said. In a statement posted on Facebook on Wednesday afternoon, the church said that the bus was carrying a group of older adults who were on their way home from a three-day retreat at Alto Frio Baptist Encampment, which is about 130 miles from New Braunfels. Advertisement “We are ministering to family members to help them deal with this tragedy,” the statement read. “Counselors will be on hand at the church tomorrow. If you’re a Christian, you can pray for those who lost their loved ones and for the church family.” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Gov. Greg Abbott and his wife, Cecilia, offered their condolences to the victims and their families. “We are saddened by the loss of life and our hearts go out to all those affected,” Governor Abbott said in a statement. “We thank the first responders working on the scene in the wake of this unimaginable tragedy, and ask that all Texans join us in offering their thoughts and prayers.” The church is well known in New Braunfels for the youth activities it hosts, particularly Upward Basketball, a program that it runs out of its own gym, said Mayor Casteel, who grew up in the city and took office in May 2014. Even though he attended a different church growing up, Mr. Casteel said, he would sometimes attend Sunday school at First Baptist with his friends. He also went to summer camp with the church. “We still have that very small-town feel; we all know each other,” he said. The church, whose former minister also served as mayor, has long been a fixture in the city, which has about 75,000 residents. Advertisement “It’s been there forever,” Mayor Casteel said. Manny Fernandez contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 2017, on Page A19 of the with the headline: 13 Killed in Head-On Collision Between Truck and Church Bus in Texas.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

Thirteen people who were on their way home from a church retreat in southwest Texas were killed Wednesday afternoon when their bus collided head-on with a pickup truck, officials said.

The bus, which was carrying 14 people, most of them parishioners in their 50s or older from First Baptist Church in New Braunfels, was traveling south on Route 83, about 100 miles west of San Antonio, when it collided with a Dodge pickup just before 12:30 p.m., according to Lt. Johnny Hernandez, a spokesman for the Texas Department of Public Safety, and Barron Casteel, the mayor of New Braunfels. The driver of the pickup, the truck’s only occupant, and one other were injured, Lieutenant Hernandez said. It was not yet clear how the crash occurred, he said.

Mr. Casteel called the church a “pillar” of the community that has long been involved in youth programs.

“It’s just awfully sad,” he said. “All of us will be affected because we’re a small town and we’re going to be part of those families who lost loved ones.”

The families were working to recover the bodies of the deceased, he said.

In a statement posted on Facebook on Wednesday afternoon, the church said that the bus was carrying a group of older adults who were on their way home from a three-day retreat at Alto Frio Baptist Encampment, which is about 130 miles from New Braunfels.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We are ministering to family members to help them deal with this tragedy,” the statement read. “Counselors will be on hand at the church tomorrow. If you’re a Christian, you can pray for those who lost their loved ones and for the church family.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Gov. Greg Abbott and his wife, Cecilia, offered their condolences to the victims and their families.

“We are saddened by the loss of life and our hearts go out to all those affected,” Governor Abbott said in a statement. “We thank the first responders working on the scene in the wake of this unimaginable tragedy, and ask that all Texans join us in offering their thoughts and prayers.”

The church is well known in New Braunfels for the youth activities it hosts, particularly Upward Basketball, a program that it runs out of its own gym, said Mayor Casteel, who grew up in the city and took office in May 2014.

Even though he attended a different church growing up, Mr. Casteel said, he would sometimes attend Sunday school at First Baptist with his friends. He also went to summer camp with the church.

“We still have that very small-town feel; we all know each other,” he said.

The church, whose former minister also served as mayor, has long been a fixture in the city, which has about 75,000 residents.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“It’s been there forever,” Mayor Casteel said.