Bob Dylan to collect his Nobel Prize in Stockholm
Bob Dylan to collect his Nobel Prize in Stockholm privately
Shares               Bob Dylan will accept his Nobel Prize in Literature this weekend, according to Sara Danius, permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy . Danius announced in a blog post that Dylan will meet with academy officials when he visits Stockholm "in a few days" to play two previously announced concerts on Saturday and Sunday. The Swedish Academy awarded him the honor last October. "The Swedish Academy is very much looking forward to the weekend and will show up at one of the performances," Danius wrote. "The Academy will then hand over Dylan's Nobel diploma and the Nobel medal, and congratulate him on the Nobel Prize in Literature. The setting will be small and intimate, and no media will be present; only Bob Dylan and members of the Academy will attend, all according to Dylan's wishes."     It took a few weeks before Dylan, 75, even formally acknowledged his Nobel selection last year. He then skipped December's formal ceremony, citing prior commitments. The Swedish ambassador, Azita Raji, stood in for him, and Patti Smith performed Dylan's "A Hard Rain's A-Gonna Fall." However, in order to collect the $870,000 in prize money that comes with the honor, he's required to deliver a lecture within six months of his win. "Please note that no Nobel Lecture will be held," wrote Danius. "The Academy has reason to believe that a taped version will be sent at a later point." Shares                  Bob Dylan to collect his Nobel Prize in Stockholm privately   Ivanka Trump taking formal role in administration amid ethics concerns   Senate intel leaders pledge Russia probe cooperation   Woman in custody after 'criminal' incident near Capitol; police say 'no nexus to terrorism'   State Department employee concealed contact with Chinese foreign agents: officials   Ex-Christie aide gets prison term for bridge revenge plot   US military opens investigation into Mosul airstrike   Premature deaths rise in US as opioid epidemic worsens: Report   Chris Christie denies rift with Jared Kushner, says they 'get along just great'   Ford recalls 570K vehicles for fire risk, door latch trouble   Dallas-area storms leave nearly 200,000 without power   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life   Bride surprises grandmother in hospital after wedding   Kid suffers 3rd-degree burns after DIY slime project   After winning shot, college star gets standing ovation in morning class   Firefighters rescue kitten stuck inside wall   Runners help fatigued racer to half-marathon finish line   Firefighters shave heads to support colleague's son with cancer   Arab leaders ready to work with Trump on Mideast peace deal   Court bars release of videos made by anti-abortion group   Missing teen, ex-teacher may be in Mexico: Officials   Teacher visited teen at work before alleged kidnapping, sister says   Emails between allegedly kidnapped teen and former teacher reveal 'romantic interest,' says DA   Oregon hiker could face charges for taking 'malnourished' bear cub to wildlife center   Black women stand up on Twitter after Maxine Waters dig   Pope demands 'urgent' action to protect civilians in Iraq   Jackie Evancho wants to tell Trump of the 'horrors' her transgender sister has faced   Academy announces changes after Oscars best picture flub   'DWTS' pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy taking injury 'very seriously'   Reporter's notebook: What I learned from being in a metabolic chamber

Bob Dylan will accept his Nobel Prize in Literature this weekend, according to Sara Danius, permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy.

Danius announced in a blog post that Dylan will meet with academy officials when he visits Stockholm "in a few days" to play two previously announced concerts on Saturday and Sunday.

The Swedish Academy awarded him the honor last October.

"The Swedish Academy is very much looking forward to the weekend and will show up at one of the performances," Danius wrote. "The Academy will then hand over Dylan's Nobel diploma and the Nobel medal, and congratulate him on the Nobel Prize in Literature. The setting will be small and intimate, and no media will be present; only Bob Dylan and members of the Academy will attend, all according to Dylan's wishes."

It took a few weeks before Dylan, 75, even formally acknowledged his Nobel selection last year. He then skipped December's formal ceremony, citing prior commitments. The Swedish ambassador, Azita Raji, stood in for him, and Patti Smith performed Dylan's "A Hard Rain's A-Gonna Fall."

However, in order to collect the $870,000 in prize money that comes with the honor, he's required to deliver a lecture within six months of his win.

"Please note that no Nobel Lecture will be held," wrote Danius. "The Academy has reason to believe that a taped version will be sent at a later point."