Monsta X Scores First No. 1 on World Albums Chart With 'Beautiful' LP
Monsta X Scores First No. 1 on World Albums Chart With 'Beautiful' LP
Monsta X Scores First No. 1 on World Albums Chart With 'Beautiful' LP  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Monsta X Â marksÂ the top spot by sending their first full-length album and its lead single to new heights on multiple charts this week.Â The hip-hop-focused boy band see theirÂ Â full-length debut at No. 1 on 's World Albums chart . With more than 1,000 copies sold, marks the band's best sales week in America to date.Â Since last year, the group has been on a steady rise up the charts. Previously, the group had sent two iterations of their releases to World Albums including theÂ EP (which peaked atÂ No. 5) and theirÂ EP (No. 3). Monsta X also makes their first appearance in the Top 10 ofÂ Billboard's Heatseekers Albums chart , which sees many less K-pop acts. Beautiful debuts at the No. 10 slot on the chart marking only the third K-pop album to make the Top 10 after NCT 127 's (No. 4) and GOT7 'sÂ (No. 3). The septet's first appearance on the ranking was withÂ EP that debuted at No. 16.  Monsta X reigns supreme over a competitive week filled with loads of new debuts. On this week's World Albums chart, there are debuts from CNBLUE (the K-pop/rock act's new EP titled debuts at No. 8), Highlight ( , the first EP from the band formerly known as Beast, starts at No. 9) and Pristin (the new girl group's debut EP enters at No. 10). Elsewhere, recent released by GOT7 and BTS also represent K-pop this week on World Albums. Furthermore, Monsta X'sÂ new title track "Beautiful" debuts at No. 4 on 's World Digital Song Sales chart . The powerful, electronic/hip-hop cut marks the band's best showing on this tally too. Watch the guys bring the song to life with their performance below:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Monsta XÂ marksÂ the top spot by sending their first full-length album and its lead single to new heights on multiple Billboard charts this week.Â

The hip-hop-focused boy band see theirÂ The Clan, Pt. 2.5 [Beautiful]Â full-length debut at No. 1 on Billboard's World Albums chart. With more than 1,000 copies sold, Beautiful marks the band's best sales week in America to date.Â

Since last year, the group has been on a steady rise up the charts. Previously, the group had sent two iterations of their ClanÂ releases to World Albums including theÂ Part 1 (Lost) EP (which peaked atÂ No. 5) and theirÂ Part 2 Guilty EP (No. 3).

Monsta X also makes their first appearance in the Top 10 ofÂ Billboard's Heatseekers Albums chart, which sees many less K-pop acts. Beautiful debuts at the No. 10 slot on the chart marking only the third K-pop album to make the Top 10 after NCT 127's Limitless (No. 4) and GOT7'sÂ Flight Log: Arrival (No. 3). The septet's first appearance on the ranking was withÂ The Clan 2.5 Pt. 2 GuiltyÂ EP that debuted at No. 16.

Monsta X reigns supreme over a competitive week filled with loads of new debuts. On this week's World Albums chart, there are debuts from CNBLUE (the K-pop/rock act's new EP titled 7 Degrees CN debuts at No. 8), Highlight (Can You Feel It?, the first EP from the band formerly known as Beast, starts at No. 9) and Pristin (the new girl group's debut EP Hi! Pristin enters at No. 10). Elsewhere, recent released by GOT7 and BTS also represent K-pop this week on World Albums.

Furthermore, Monsta X'sÂ new title track "Beautiful" debuts at No. 4 on Billboard's World Digital Song Sales chart. The powerful, electronic/hip-hop cut marks the band's best showing on this tally too. Watch the guys bring the song to life with their performance below: