FBI director Comey: 'We're not on anybody's side, ever.'
FBI director: 'We're not on anybody's side, ever.'
Shares                FBI Director James Comey on Wednesday affirmed the independence of his agency, saying he didn't care whose "political ox is gored by our work." Speaking at the Intelligence and National Security Alliance Leadership dinner, Comey said if the FBI were ever to "start to think about who will be affected in what way by our decisions in a political sense, we're done." The crux of his speech was focused on the nature of law enforcement and intelligence, but Comey was invariably asked questions about his role in leading investigations into both Hillary Clinton's email scandal and the Trump administration's alleged Russia ties.     "We are the same today as we were yesterday, we'll be the same tomorrow," Comey said about how the bureau operated, declining to comment on any specific cases or ongoing probes. "We are 'what are the facts?,' we really don’t care whose political ox is gored by our work and that is the passion at the heart of the FBI." Comey stressed that "we’re not on anybody’s side, ever.” At the same time, Comey acknowledged that ideological polarization in Washington means that the FBI understands that its work will be seized upon by politicians. "Now we’re not fools," he said. "I know that when I make a hard decision, a storm is going to follow, but honestly I don’t care." He added, "Now the painful part is we confuse people and the reason we confuse people is most people see the world differently than we do, especially in a hyper-partisan environment."  Shares                  FBI director: 'We're not on anybody's side, ever.'   U.S. judge in Hawaii extends halt on Trump travel ban   China's Xi to meet Trump in Mar-a-Lago on April 6-7   NC lawmakers reach deal to repeal the state's 'bathroom bill'   Trump administration drops human rights in Bahrain F-16 deal   Ex-Christie aide gets prison term for bridge revenge plot   Fossils millions of years old swiped from Death Valley National Park   US military opens investigation into Mosul airstrike   State Department employee concealed contact with Chinese foreign agents: Officials   Millennials, hoping to find real connections, ban the booze   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life   Bride surprises grandmother in hospital after wedding   Kid suffers 3rd-degree burns after DIY slime project   After winning shot, college star gets standing ovation in morning class   Firefighters rescue kitten stuck inside wall   Runners help fatigued racer to half-marathon finish line   Premature deaths rise in US as opioid epidemic worsens: Report   Ford recalls 570K vehicles for fire risk, door latch trouble   Dallas-area storms leave nearly 200,000 without power   Arab leaders ready to work with Trump on Mideast peace deal   Court bars release of videos made by anti-abortion group   Missing teen, ex-teacher may be in Mexico: Officials   Teacher visited teen at work before alleged kidnapping, sister says   Emails between allegedly kidnapped teen and former teacher reveal 'romantic interest,' says DA   What we don't know about Nunes' White House grounds visit   Chris Christie on Nunes: Recusal is a 'personal decision'   Everything you need to know about House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes   Black women stand up on Twitter after Maxine Waters dig   Cambodia marks 20 years since deadly grenade attack   Jackie Evancho wants to tell Trump of the 'horrors' her transgender sister has faced   Academy announces changes after best picture Oscar flub   'DWTS' pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy taking injury 'very seriously'   Reporter's notebook: What I learned from being in a metabolic chamber

FBI Director James Comey on Wednesday affirmed the independence of his agency, saying he didn't care whose "political ox is gored by our work."

Speaking at the Intelligence and National Security Alliance Leadership dinner, Comey said if the FBI were ever to "start to think about who will be affected in what way by our decisions in a political sense, we're done."

The crux of his speech was focused on the nature of law enforcement and intelligence, but Comey was invariably asked questions about his role in leading investigations into both Hillary Clinton's email scandal and the Trump administration's alleged Russia ties.

"We are the same today as we were yesterday, we'll be the same tomorrow," Comey said about how the bureau operated, declining to comment on any specific cases or ongoing probes. "We are 'what are the facts?,' we really don’t care whose political ox is gored by our work and that is the passion at the heart of the FBI."

Comey stressed that "we’re not on anybody’s side, ever.”

At the same time, Comey acknowledged that ideological polarization in Washington means that the FBI understands that its work will be seized upon by politicians.

"Now we’re not fools," he said. "I know that when I make a hard decision, a storm is going to follow, but honestly I don’t care."

He added, "Now the painful part is we confuse people and the reason we confuse people is most people see the world differently than we do, especially in a hyper-partisan environment."

ABC News' Geneva Sands contributed to this report.