You can pre-order the Galaxy S8 and get a free Gear VR
You can pre-order the Galaxy S8 and get a free Gear VR
Well, that was fast. One day after Samsung's big Galaxy S8 reveal, the phone is now available for pre-order at Samsung's website and all major U.S. carriers. We already knew the pricing for both the S8 and the S8+, and there are no surprises here. But why dish out your cash now only to get the device on April 20? Samsung's got at least one good reason: All customers who pre-order the Galaxy S8 or the S8+ before April 20 get a free Gear VR with the new Controller for free. Samsung Gear VR + Controller. Image:  Lili Sams/Mashable Additionally, pre-ordering enables you to get AKG's Y50BT wireless headphones and a 256GB memory card for $99, though that offer is time-limited. SEE ALSO: Samsung's Galaxy S8 event: Everything you need to know The easiest way to pre-order the Galaxy S8 now is to go to Samsung's website , where you can choose between a carrier lock for all major U.S. carriers: AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon. Alternatively, you can also buy directly from the carriers: here are the links for the S8 on AT&T , Sprint , T-Mobile and Verizon . For the S8+, the links are here: AT&T , Sprint , T-Mobile and Verizon . WATCH: The next-gen 'Gear VR' comes with a motion controller

Well, that was fast. One day after Samsung's big Galaxy S8 reveal, the phone is now available for pre-order at Samsung's website and all major U.S. carriers.

We already knew the pricing for both the S8 and the S8+, and there are no surprises here. But why dish out your cash now only to get the device on April 20? Samsung's got at least one good reason: All customers who pre-order the Galaxy S8 or the S8+ before April 20 get a free Gear VR with the new Controller for free.

Samsung Gear VR + Controller. Image: Lili Sams/Mashable

Additionally, pre-ordering enables you to get AKG's Y50BT wireless headphones and a 256GB memory card for $99, though that offer is time-limited.

The easiest way to pre-order the Galaxy S8 now is to go to Samsung's website, where you can choose between a carrier lock for all major U.S. carriers: AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon.

Alternatively, you can also buy directly from the carriers: here are the links for the S8 on AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon. For the S8+, the links are here: AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon.