Texas man sentenced to 15 years for assaulting pregnant girlfriend
Texas man sentenced to 15 years for assaulting pregnant girlfriend
Jacob Pauda of Lubbock, Texas, was sentenced to 15 years in prison for assaulting his pregnant girlfriend.                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Jacob Pauda, 31, was found guilty of domestic violence and sentenced to 15 years in prison Monday, according to CBS affiliate KLBK-TV . Last week, Pauda was convicted of violently assaulting his pregnant girlfriend in February 2016, according to police reports. He reportedly chased her with a butcher’s knife. “[Pauda] then ran towards [the victim] with a closed right fist punched [her] repeatedly an unknown amount of times on the left side of [the victim’s] face,” according to the police report. The victim was able to call her mother to come get her.  But then Pauda became violent again. According to a police report, the victim said the suspect “slammed her into the metal objects approximately 5 times.” The victim quoted Pauda as admitting he did “two bumps” of cocaine before the violent assault. The victim bailed out Pauda from jail about two months before; she was pregnant and Pauda knew that according to the police report. He also knew he was the father. Pauda went to trial before a judge instead of a jury. The judge found that Pauda used a deadly weapon and there was bodily injury.  The judge also ruled that Pauda was previously convicted of aggravated assault which was a factor in the sentencing.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

LUBBOCK, Texas -- Jacob Pauda, 31, was found guilty of domestic violence and sentenced to 15 years in prison Monday, according to CBS affiliate KLBK-TV.

Last week, Pauda was convicted of violently assaulting his pregnant girlfriend in February 2016, according to police reports.

He reportedly chased her with a butcher’s knife.

“[Pauda] then ran towards [the victim] with a closed right fist punched [her] repeatedly an unknown amount of times on the left side of [the victim’s] face,” according to the police report.

SEE MORE: Outrageous mugshots



The victim was able to call her mother to come get her. But then Pauda became violent again.

According to a police report, the victim said the suspect “slammed her into the metal objects approximately 5 times.”

The victim quoted Pauda as admitting he did “two bumps” of cocaine before the violent assault.

The victim bailed out Pauda from jail about two months before; she was pregnant and Pauda knew that according to the police report. He also knew he was the father.

Pauda went to trial before a judge instead of a jury. The judge found that Pauda used a deadly weapon and there was bodily injury. The judge also ruled that Pauda was previously convicted of aggravated assault which was a factor in the sentencing.