How women are using their Tinder matches to scam money off men
How women are using their Tinder matches to scam money off men
How to create the perfect Tinder bio is one of life’s great mysteries ... but it looks like one woman has taken it a step further. Maggie Archer, a 20-year-old student from Missouri, has a pretty interesting strategy and it seems to be working, in a way. She simply writes, “Send me $5, see what happens.”   The secret version of Tinder for the elite, famous and wealthy That’s right, instead of using the app to find a date, Archer is using Tinder to scam money off gullible men, BuzzFeed reports. So, how does it work? The student reveals that as soon as she matches with a guy and he inquires about the cryptic fee, she encourages him to send the money via Paypal. And, as for the surprise, much to the dismay of those foolish enough to fall for Archer’s trapping, all you get is unmatched. Love and sex news: in pictures               Love and sex news: in pictures    Spain appoints 'sex tsar'   Spain has appointed a ‘sex tsar’ to encourage the declining population to ramp up procreation in a bid to reverse a dip in the birth rate. 
The country reported a higher number of deaths than births for the first time last year, prompting the government to take action      A new dating show for Trump supporters   Across the pond, there’s a new TV dating show in the pipeline: one inspired by President Donald Trump. The dating site - whose tagline is ‘Making dating great again’ - launched in May 2016 and now has over 37,500 active users   Getty Images     How to spot when your partner is hiding their true feelings   How often do you and your partner actually spot when one of you is hiding your emotions? According to a new study, it’s probably not as frequently as you think. New research suggests that people miss cues that their partner may be suppressing negative feelings because we see our other-halves in a more positive light   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Timetable of Love   A new study has revealed that Sunday at 9am is the most popular time of the week for Brits to get busy in the bedroom. Our weekends tend to be a lot sexier than our weekdays, with three of the top five most common times for sex falling on a Saturday, at 11.30am, 10.30pm and 11.30pm   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Singletons judge potential partners on their phones, says new study   A new study has found that women are 92 per cent more likely than men to judge a potential partner negatively for having an older phone model.   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Online dating risk   A new report by the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau has found that last year, singles were conned out of £39 million by fraudsters they’d met on dating sites and apps. Con artists are increasingly creating fake online profiles and tricking people on dating sites into handing over often large sums of money.   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Sainsbury’s sells same sex valentine’s day cards for first time   For the first time, Sainsbury’s is selling a range of Valentine’s Day cards that represent same-sex couples.
The simple designs feature illustrations of a woman and a woman, and a man and a man, with the caption ‘You + Me.’      Mother's blood pressure before conception could influence sex of child, study suggests   Pregnant woman measures the blood pressure with automatic sphygmomanometer.   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Couples oversharing on social media do so to mask relationship insecurities, expert suggests   Couple sitting on couch with their phones in their hand   Getty Images/iStockphoto     Injection of ‘romantic’ hormone could help treat psychosexual problems    Getty Images/iStockphoto     One in ten British women experience pain during    Getty Images/iStockphoto     Erectile dysfunction 'linked to risk of early death'   Men who suffer from erectile dysfunction (ED) are 70 per cent more likely to die early, a new study has found. US scientists believe that the disorder may be linked to poor cardiovascular health, and suggested that men with ED should be screened for health issues that could cut their lives short   Rex Features     Watching porn does not cause negative attitudes to women   The average porn user may have more egalitarian views towards women than non-users, a contentious new study has suggested. Researchers at Western University in Canada have even argued that many pornography fans might be “useful allies” in women’s struggles for equality in the workplace and in public office. They reported in the Journal of Sex Research that the 23 per cent of people who said they had watched an “X-rated” film during the previous year were no more or less likely to identify as feminists than those who did not watch porn.   Getty     The characteristics of men who pay for sex   Men who pay for sex share similar traits to rapists and sex offenders, according to new research. A study from University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), claims that men who have sex with female sex workers feel less empathy for them than men who do not buy sex. Part of this reason is due to the fact that they view them as "intrinsically different from other women,” according to the authors.   Getty Images     Heartbreak can actually change the rhythm of your heart   Losing a loved one really can break your heart, research suggests, although not for ever. People who lose a partner are at an increased risk of developing an irregular heartbeat for the next 12 months, scientists found. The risk seems to be greatest among the under 60s and when the loss of the partner was least expected   Getty     'Weird' sexual fetishes are actually very normal   A number of sexual fetishes considered anomalous in psychiatry are actually common in the general population, a study has found. According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5), sexual interests fall into two categories: normal (normophilic) and anomalous (paraphilic). Researchers asked 1,040 Quebec residents, representative of the general population, about their experiences of sexual behaviour considered abnormal by the DSM-5. The study, published in The Journal of Sex Research, found that of the eight types of anomalous behaviour listed in the DSM-5, four were found to be neither rare or unusual among the experiences and desires reported by men and women   But really, no one in their right mind would actually fall for that, would they? Unfortunately so. Taking to Twitter to prove just how successful the scam has been, Archer’s Paypal history shows a string of $5 payments. The best possible use for tinder pic.twitter.com/bYs49yEds6 In fact, she has received money from more than 20 paying matches in the last week. That’s in excess of over $100 just for a one-sentence bio. Some men have even offered her more - she says the most she’s ever gotten from anyone was $10.   Meet the model who claims to be the most popular person on Tinder “Some men get creepy and assume if they offer a lot more, like hundreds, something will actually happen, which of course it doesn't,” she told BuzzFeed. “It's really a foolproof plan, because I'm not actually promising anything, I just say 'see what happens.'” More about: Tinder dating apps Dating scam Online dating Comments

How to create the perfect Tinder bio is one of life’s great mysteries ... but it looks like one woman has taken it a step further.

Maggie Archer, a 20-year-old student from Missouri, has a pretty interesting strategy and it seems to be working, in a way.

She simply writes, “Send me $5, see what happens.”

That’s right, instead of using the app to find a date, Archer is using Tinder to scam money off gullible men, BuzzFeed reports.

So, how does it work?

The student reveals that as soon as she matches with a guy and he inquires about the cryptic fee, she encourages him to send the money via Paypal.

And, as for the surprise, much to the dismay of those foolish enough to fall for Archer’s trapping, all you get is unmatched.

Love and sex news: in pictures







16 show all Love and sex news: in pictures





























1/16 Spain appoints 'sex tsar' Spain has appointed a ‘sex tsar’ to encourage the declining population to ramp up procreation in a bid to reverse a dip in the birth rate. The country reported a higher number of deaths than births for the first time last year, prompting the government to take action

2/16 A new dating show for Trump supporters Across the pond, there’s a new TV dating show in the pipeline: one inspired by President Donald Trump. The dating site - whose tagline is ‘Making dating great again’ - launched in May 2016 and now has over 37,500 active users Getty Images

3/16 How to spot when your partner is hiding their true feelings How often do you and your partner actually spot when one of you is hiding your emotions? According to a new study, it’s probably not as frequently as you think. New research suggests that people miss cues that their partner may be suppressing negative feelings because we see our other-halves in a more positive light Getty Images/iStockphoto

4/16 Timetable of Love A new study has revealed that Sunday at 9am is the most popular time of the week for Brits to get busy in the bedroom. Our weekends tend to be a lot sexier than our weekdays, with three of the top five most common times for sex falling on a Saturday, at 11.30am, 10.30pm and 11.30pm Getty Images/iStockphoto

5/16 Singletons judge potential partners on their phones, says new study A new study has found that women are 92 per cent more likely than men to judge a potential partner negatively for having an older phone model. Getty Images/iStockphoto

6/16 Online dating risk A new report by the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau has found that last year, singles were conned out of £39 million by fraudsters they’d met on dating sites and apps. Con artists are increasingly creating fake online profiles and tricking people on dating sites into handing over often large sums of money. Getty Images/iStockphoto

7/16 Sainsbury’s sells same sex valentine’s day cards for first time For the first time, Sainsbury’s is selling a range of Valentine’s Day cards that represent same-sex couples. The simple designs feature illustrations of a woman and a woman, and a man and a man, with the caption ‘You + Me.’

8/16 Mother's blood pressure before conception could influence sex of child, study suggests Pregnant woman measures the blood pressure with automatic sphygmomanometer. Getty Images/iStockphoto

9/16 Couples oversharing on social media do so to mask relationship insecurities, expert suggests Couple sitting on couch with their phones in their hand Getty Images/iStockphoto

10/16 Injection of ‘romantic’ hormone could help treat psychosexual problems Getty Images/iStockphoto

11/16 One in ten British women experience pain during Getty Images/iStockphoto

12/16 Erectile dysfunction 'linked to risk of early death' Men who suffer from erectile dysfunction (ED) are 70 per cent more likely to die early, a new study has found. US scientists believe that the disorder may be linked to poor cardiovascular health, and suggested that men with ED should be screened for health issues that could cut their lives short Rex Features

13/16 Watching porn does not cause negative attitudes to women The average porn user may have more egalitarian views towards women than non-users, a contentious new study has suggested. Researchers at Western University in Canada have even argued that many pornography fans might be “useful allies” in women’s struggles for equality in the workplace and in public office. They reported in the Journal of Sex Research that the 23 per cent of people who said they had watched an “X-rated” film during the previous year were no more or less likely to identify as feminists than those who did not watch porn. Getty

14/16 The characteristics of men who pay for sex Men who pay for sex share similar traits to rapists and sex offenders, according to new research. A study from University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), claims that men who have sex with female sex workers feel less empathy for them than men who do not buy sex. Part of this reason is due to the fact that they view them as "intrinsically different from other women,” according to the authors. Getty Images

15/16 Heartbreak can actually change the rhythm of your heart Losing a loved one really can break your heart, research suggests, although not for ever. People who lose a partner are at an increased risk of developing an irregular heartbeat for the next 12 months, scientists found. The risk seems to be greatest among the under 60s and when the loss of the partner was least expected Getty

16/16 'Weird' sexual fetishes are actually very normal A number of sexual fetishes considered anomalous in psychiatry are actually common in the general population, a study has found. According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5), sexual interests fall into two categories: normal (normophilic) and anomalous (paraphilic). Researchers asked 1,040 Quebec residents, representative of the general population, about their experiences of sexual behaviour considered abnormal by the DSM-5. The study, published in The Journal of Sex Research, found that of the eight types of anomalous behaviour listed in the DSM-5, four were found to be neither rare or unusual among the experiences and desires reported by men and women

But really, no one in their right mind would actually fall for that, would they?

Unfortunately so.

Taking to Twitter to prove just how successful the scam has been, Archer’s Paypal history shows a string of $5 payments.

The best possible use for tinder pic.twitter.com/bYs49yEds6 — Maggie (@maggiearch3r) March 22, 2017

In fact, she has received money from more than 20 paying matches in the last week.

That’s in excess of over $100 just for a one-sentence bio.

Some men have even offered her more - she says the most she’s ever gotten from anyone was $10.

“Some men get creepy and assume if they offer a lot more, like hundreds, something will actually happen, which of course it doesn't,” she told BuzzFeed.

“It's really a foolproof plan, because I'm not actually promising anything, I just say 'see what happens.'”