There's a new slogan for Brexit...
There's a new slogan for Brexit...
The Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) announced at the time that there would be a cumulative £122 billion of extra borrowing over the next five years, £59 billion of which will occur as a direct result of the vote to leave the EU. Hammond told the House of Commons: [Brexit] makes more urgent than ever the need to tackle our economy’s long-term weaknesses, like the productivity gap, the housing challenge, and the damaging imbalance in economic growth and prosperity across our country. The reaction to the £58.7 billion news was predictable. Brexit means....billions more debt. pic.twitter.com/YwbPqqCKmy  The cost of #Brexit is £122bn over next 5 years. So where's the mythical £350m per week for the NHS coming from? pic.twitter.com/uUST9yNTvS  Conservative Brexit MPs appear to be objecting to independent financial forecasting being based on facts instead of patriotic hope.  'Brexit will cost £58.7bn. Let's spend it on the NHS instead.'  @IanDunt Stick that on a bus!  Today @ev_bartlett commissioned me to photoshop the Vote Leave battlebus. I like this one better. pic.twitter.com/HnV5OY08hS  Britain is paying over £350 million a week for Brexit #AutumnStatement  pic.twitter.com/6ef3TXYtJD  The government, Mr Speaker, has pledged to invest in our NHS and we are delivering on that promise: backing the NHS’ Five Year Forward View plan for the future with £10 billion of additional funding a year by the end of 2020-21. The Health Select Committee has said that the government's extra funding for health is actually £4.5 billion rather than £10 billion, and agrees with their conclusion: Overall health spending will increase by £4.5 billion, after you take inflation into account. The £10 billion includes an extra year of spending and only refers to the NHS England budget rather than wider health spending. The £10 billion figure is calculated over six years, counting a year's worth of money that has already been spent in a previous parliament.                    Keep scrolling for next article

During his last Autumn Statement, Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond conceded that Brexit will blow a £59 billion black hole in public finances.

The Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) announced at the time that there would be a cumulative £122 billion of extra borrowing over the next five years, £59 billion of which will occur as a direct result of the vote to leave the EU.

Hammond told the House of Commons:

[Brexit] makes more urgent than ever the need to tackle our economy’s long-term weaknesses, like the productivity gap, the housing challenge, and the damaging imbalance in economic growth and prosperity across our country.

The reaction to the £58.7 billion news was predictable.

The cost of #Brexit is £122bn over next 5 years. So where's the mythical £350m per week for the NHS coming from? pic.twitter.com/uUST9yNTvS — James Melville (@JamesMelville) November 24, 2016

Conservative Brexit MPs appear to be objecting to independent financial forecasting being based on facts instead of patriotic hope. — Andy Wootton (@WooTube) November 24, 2016

One line stuck out above all:

'Brexit will cost £58.7bn. Let's spend it on the NHS instead.' — Ian Dunt (@IanDunt) November 23, 2016

So we did.

Today @ev_bartlett commissioned me to photoshop the Vote Leave battlebus. I like this one better. pic.twitter.com/HnV5OY08hS — Louis Doré (@LouisAlexDore) November 24, 2016

And we weren't the only ones:

Britain is paying over £350 million a week for Brexit #AutumnStatement pic.twitter.com/6ef3TXYtJD — European Movement UK (@euromove) November 23, 2016

The NHS was mentioned twice in the statement:

The government, Mr Speaker, has pledged to invest in our NHS and we are delivering on that promise: backing the NHS’ Five Year Forward View plan for the future with £10 billion of additional funding a year by the end of 2020-21.

The Health Select Committee has said that the government's extra funding for health is actually £4.5 billion rather than £10 billion, and FullFact agrees with their conclusion:

Overall health spending will increase by £4.5 billion, after you take inflation into account. The £10 billion includes an extra year of spending and only refers to the NHS England budget rather than wider health spending.

The £10 billion figure is calculated over six years, counting a year's worth of money that has already been spent in a previous parliament.

Brexit means Brexit.

More: The Tories stole their big Autumn Statement idea frrom Ed Miliband