Bellamy's fails to meet Chinese regulators' deadline for registration

Bellamy's fails to meet Chinese regulators' deadline for registration Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   ABC Rural   Clint Jasper  Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   Bellamy's could lose up to $16 million of sales in China. ABC Rural: Brett Worthington Bellamy's has revealed it has failed to have its products registered for sale in China, now that its manufacturing plant in Victoria is changing hands. About 14 per cent, or $16 million worth, of the Tasmanian infant milk formula manufacturers' products are sold in China. Chinese officials announced that from January 1 , it would require infant formula products to be registered with the Chinese Food and Drug Administration (CFDA). In a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange, Bellamy's said it would not achieve registration in time, due to the extensive testing required by the CFDA. The regulatory change will see earnings hit from the first quarter of 2018. Bega Cheese manufactures infant formula for Bellamy's sites in Victoria. Bega last month announced it would sell the manufacturing plant to Mead Johnson to fund its purchase of Kraft products , including Vegemite. "Bellamy's confirms that following discussions with Bega, its China products can no longer be registered at Bega's Derrimut canning line," the ASX statement read. "Bellamy's also confirms that its contract with Bega remains in place for other products." It is another blow for the former share market favourite, which has watched its share price plummet by about 60 per cent since December. The company has been forced to spend the past months dealing with a shareholder revolt, which saw former chief executive Laura McBain and chairman Rob Wooley depart from the company. Kathmandu founder Jan Cameron managed to mount a revolt and install allies Rodd Peters as chairman and Chan Wai-Chan as a board member . Related articles   Topics  Dairy Production   Food Processing   Food Safety   Trade   Food and Beverage   Melbourne   Hobart  Rural News delivered to your inbox

Bellamy's could lose up to $16 million of sales in China.

Bellamy's has revealed it has failed to have its products registered for sale in China, now that its manufacturing plant in Victoria is changing hands.

About 14 per cent, or $16 million worth, of the Tasmanian infant milk formula manufacturers' products are sold in China.

Chinese officials announced that from January 1, it would require infant formula products to be registered with the Chinese Food and Drug Administration (CFDA).

In a statement to the Australian Stock Exchange, Bellamy's said it would not achieve registration in time, due to the extensive testing required by the CFDA.

The regulatory change will see earnings hit from the first quarter of 2018.

Bega Cheese manufactures infant formula for Bellamy's sites in Victoria.

Bega last month announced it would sell the manufacturing plant to Mead Johnson to fund its purchase of Kraft products, including Vegemite.

"Bellamy's confirms that following discussions with Bega, its China products can no longer be registered at Bega's Derrimut canning line," the ASX statement read.

"Bellamy's also confirms that its contract with Bega remains in place for other products."

It is another blow for the former share market favourite, which has watched its share price plummet by about 60 per cent since December.

The company has been forced to spend the past months dealing with a shareholder revolt, which saw former chief executive Laura McBain and chairman Rob Wooley depart from the company.

Kathmandu founder Jan Cameron managed to mount a revolt and install allies Rodd Peters as chairman and Chan Wai-Chan as a board member.