Poisoned Russian activist delivers rebuke of Putin regime in Senate testimony
Poisoned Russian activist delivers rebuke of Putin regime before Senate
Shares               A Russian opposition activist who has been hospitalized twice in the last year in alleged poisonings by the Putin regime testified on Capitol Hill today, in a Senate hearing aimed at establishing counter-Russia funding. Vladimir Kara-Murza was active in working for a U.S. law passed in 2012 that bans visas and freezes assets of Russian officials involved in repression and corruption. He splits his time between Moscow and Washington as Vice Chairman for Open Russia, an organization that advocates democracy and human rights inside Russia. In his testimony before the Senate committee on Wednesday, Kara-Murza said the U.S. needs to take a harsher stance against Russia and Vladimir Putin 's regime. Wednesday's hearing of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs was to make the case for a counter-Russia financial account that would help states and organizations fighting back against the Putin regime. Kara-Murza opened his testimony by listing current issues of oppression in Russia including lack of free and fair elections, silencing independent media outlets and designating some non-profits doing work there as foreign agents or spies.     He said there are currently 100 political prisoners in Russia and, after tens of thousands of people marched through the streets in different cities across Russia over the weekend, more than 1,500 people were arrested. Kara-Murza said he thinks the U.S. should be honest about what’s happening in Russia and not "enable corrupt or abusive behavior" and "continue to engage with Russia’s civil society." He said he believes Western democracies have given Putin a pass to interfere in elections because they "have not taken a principled, firm stand against Russia's actions." The size of protests in Russia last week show that young people the country no longer trust Putin's regime, he said, calling his regime "a dead end for Russia." Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is scheduled to visit Russia in a few weeks and Kara-Murza noted that it will be interesting to see if Tillerson meets with opposition activists, saying it is vital to maintain lines of communication outside the Kremlin and that the U.S. has to play a role in countering propaganda.  Shares                  Poisoned Russian activist delivers rebuke of Putin regime before Senate  Why thousands protested in Russia  Anti-Putin activist has antiseptic thrown in his face while campaigning   Trump takes aim at Freedom Caucus again   Senate hearing on Russian interference in US election begins today   The Note: Senate Intel Committee steps up to the plate   How the House, Senate Russia probes are headed down different paths   How Trump is tackling and drawing fire on women's issues   Dems: Red flags from Kushner sit-down with Russian banker   Gov. Terry McAuliffe on 2020: 'Go big or go home'   Ivanka Trump taking formal role in administration amid ethics concerns   Everything you need to know about Sally Yates   Woman in custody after 'criminal' incident near Capitol; police say 'no nexus to terrorism'   Chris Christie on Nunes: Recusal is a 'personal decision'   Federal judge extends halt on Trump travel ban   China's Xi to meet Trump in Mar-a-Lago on April 6-7   NC lawmakers reach deal to repeal the state's 'bathroom bill'   Casino mogul Phil Ruffin among Trump's closest friends   Fire survivor teaches children fire-safety tools that saved his family   Millennials, hoping to find real connections, ban the booze   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life   Bride surprises grandmother in hospital after wedding   Kid suffers 3rd-degree burns after DIY slime project   After winning shot, college star gets standing ovation in morning class   Firefighters rescue kitten stuck inside wall   Runners help fatigued racer to half-marathon finish line

A Russian opposition activist who has been hospitalized twice in the last year in alleged poisonings by the Putin regime testified on Capitol Hill today, in a Senate hearing aimed at establishing counter-Russia funding.

Vladimir Kara-Murza was active in working for a U.S. law passed in 2012 that bans visas and freezes assets of Russian officials involved in repression and corruption. He splits his time between Moscow and Washington as Vice Chairman for Open Russia, an organization that advocates democracy and human rights inside Russia.

In his testimony before the Senate committee on Wednesday, Kara-Murza said the U.S. needs to take a harsher stance against Russia and Vladimir Putin's regime.

Wednesday's hearing of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs was to make the case for a counter-Russia financial account that would help states and organizations fighting back against the Putin regime.

Kara-Murza opened his testimony by listing current issues of oppression in Russia including lack of free and fair elections, silencing independent media outlets and designating some non-profits doing work there as foreign agents or spies.

He said there are currently 100 political prisoners in Russia and, after tens of thousands of people marched through the streets in different cities across Russia over the weekend, more than 1,500 people were arrested.

Kara-Murza said he thinks the U.S. should be honest about what’s happening in Russia and not "enable corrupt or abusive behavior" and "continue to engage with Russia’s civil society."

He said he believes Western democracies have given Putin a pass to interfere in elections because they "have not taken a principled, firm stand against Russia's actions."

The size of protests in Russia last week show that young people the country no longer trust Putin's regime, he said, calling his regime "a dead end for Russia."

Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is scheduled to visit Russia in a few weeks and Kara-Murza noted that it will be interesting to see if Tillerson meets with opposition activists, saying it is vital to maintain lines of communication outside the Kremlin and that the U.S. has to play a role in countering propaganda.

ABC's Elizabeth McLaughlin contributed to this report.