Putin Strikes Back: 'No Interference' With Trump Election
Putin Strikes Back: 'No Interference' With Trump Election
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kenneth Rapoza       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Russian President Vladimir Putin leaves after a meeting with Finnish President Sauli Niinisto at the International Arctic Forum in Arkhangelsk, Russia on Thursday, March 30, 2017.  He spoke about Russian "meddling" in U.S. politics to CNBC reporter Geoff Cutmore today. (Sergei Karpukhin/Pool photo via AP) Vladimir Putin haters woke up this morning to the Russian president finally voicing his thoughts to the American media about alleged Russian interference int the U.S. presidential election. They will likely spend all of their morning meeting time figuring out a way to spin it in their favor. Other than his misquoting of Ronald Reagan and comments that climate change science might not be fool-proof, Putin reiterated his government's claim that Russia did not help elect Donald Trump; this time in his own words. CNBC reporter Geoff Cutmore appeared to have thrown Putin a curve ball during a business and development meeting about the Arctic on Thursday when he broached the subject of politics. Cutmore asked if there was anything to the story that Russians were meddling in the election. He even went so far as apologizing for bringing it up. "Ronald Reagan once said in addressing the American people about taxes: 'read my lips'," Putin said, pointing to his mouth while saying "no", a slight smirk on his face. It was George H.W. Bush who said that, however. (Worth noting: Bush ended up raising taxes.) After spending weeks blaming FBI director James Comey's email investigations for her loss, Hillary Clinton and her campaign manager John Podesta quickly shifted gears and started blaming Russian "fake news" for spreading lies about her. Shortly after, the Russian conspiracy went full-on Info Wars, with everyone in Trump's cabinet being suspected of being a Russian lapdog. At least two Trump cabinet picks have already been punished for talking to Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak, with National Security Advisor Michael Flynn being forced to resign and Attorney General Jeff Sessions forced to hold an emergency press conference explaining his meeting with Kislyak before recusing himself of being part of the investigation into Trump's ties with Russia. Even the notion of business ties to Russia is deemed toxic. Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska was featured in an AP Exclusive last week about a 2005 meeting with Paul Manafort, Trump's first campaign advisor. Manafort was forced out after it was revealed he worked as a consultant for Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych, kicked out of power in February 2014 and replaced by a pro-Western government. The AP article said that Manafort was representing Deripaska's interest in the U.S. and, by extension, that of Vladimir Putin as well. But Manafort did what every foreign lobbyist would do for his client under the Foreign Agent Registration Action: tell his foreign client that he would "be offering a great service that can re-focus, both internally and externally, the policies of the Putin government." This is precisely why foreign companies and foreign nations hire American lobbyists, to offer them a service that presents them in the best possible light, which by default is good for the country's leaders and biggest businesses. K Street is loaded with them. ( For example... ) Deripaska paid for an op-ed in the WSJ (much to 's dismay ) where he called the AP story "a malicious assertion and a lie." He said the article, "causes unfair and unjustified concerns and alarm in the U.S. Congress about Russian involvement in U.S. domestic affairs. Context often creates an illusion of 'might be true' information though it is based on complete and full lies." Deripaska, a FORBES listed billionaire worth an estimated $5.3 billion, offered himself to the House Intelligence Committee to provide his view of Russian relations with the Trump team. Cutmore asked Putin if Russian government officials could offer themselves up as well. Putin said that Russian congressional leaders can talk to their American counterparts if the two sides agree. Regarding Deripaska, he said "it is in his right to do so. If the U.S. is setting forth all these claims against him then why not?" From left: Moderator Geoff Cutmore of CNBC Europe, Finnish President Sauli Niinisto, Russian President Vladimir Putin and President of Iceland Gudni Johannesson attend a session of the International Arctic Forum in Arkhangelsk, Russia, Thursday, March 30, 2017. (Sergei Karpukhin/Pool photo via AP) The U.S. banned Deripaska from entering the U.S. in 2007 for his ties to organized crime. "Doing business is a complex matter so maybe there were some breaches of faith," Putin said of Deripaska. "Let the evidence present itself." Putin also reiterated what Foreign Ministry officials have said since the Kislyak tapes were leaked to the press, that his ambassador is in Washington to talk to congress and American businesses. "His job is to maintain contact with the U.S. government, otherwise why would he be there? American businesses sometimes come to Russia and talk to our businesses and meet with cabinet members. Do you really want to go to extremes on this? What is all this leading up to?" he asked Cutmore. "These allegations are groundless...illusory fabrications. Lies," he said. In moments with the international press, Putin is famous for bringing up past breaches of confidence between Washington and Moscow. This time was no different. He spoke of a cybersecurity agreement proposed by Moscow a few years ago that was rejected by Washington. Putin wondered out loud if it is better for Washington to blame rivals for hacking and cyber espionage than to have a cybersecurity deal. The last time Putin addressed an American media company was in Sept. 2015 on 60 Minutes. Putin was in New York to address the United Nations Security Council. Sanctions against Russia for its activities in Ukraine were two months old. And Russia had just authorized air strikes against ISIS and U.S. backed rebel groups fighting the Bashar Assad government in Syria. From that day on, Russia became a bigger bogey man. Russian metals magnate and FORBES billionaire Oleg Deripaska said he wants to testify to Congress to discuss an AP story that claims he paid a Trump campaign advisor to spread good news about Putin...over 12 years ago.  (AP Photo/Alexander Zemlianichenko) According to polls, most Americans see Russia as an adversary. Speaking through a translator, Putin said "We know that many Americans are not okay with Russia, but I want to tell these people that we perceive the United States as a great power and we want good relations." Putin was taking part in a panel discussion at the International Arctic Forum in Arkhangelsk, Russia. Outside of politics, Putin said the U.S. and Russia were cooperating in the Arctic "believe it or not." He noted that Russia and the U.S. have visa free travel across some Alaskan islands in the Bering Sea that are close to Russia. He said Arctic countries, which includes the U.S. because of Alaska, need to tackle over-fishing and protect the polar bear populations, but Russia and the region's main interest is hydrocarbons. "There is huge potential there for Russia, and all Arctic nations," he said. Find me on Twitter at @BRICBreaker Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Vladimir Putin haters woke up this morning to the Russian president finally voicing his thoughts to the American media about alleged Russian interference int the U.S. presidential election. They will likely spend all of their morning meeting time figuring out a way to spin it in their favor. Other than his misquoting of Ronald Reagan and comments that climate change science might not be fool-proof, Putin reiterated his government's claim that Russia did not help elect Donald Trump; this time in his own words.

CNBC reporter Geoff Cutmore appeared to have thrown Putin a curve ball during a business and development meeting about the Arctic on Thursday when he broached the subject of politics. Cutmore asked if there was anything to the story that Russians were meddling in the election. He even went so far as apologizing for bringing it up. "Ronald Reagan once said in addressing the American people about taxes: 'read my lips'," Putin said, pointing to his mouth while saying "no", a slight smirk on his face. It was George H.W. Bush who said that, however. (Worth noting: Bush ended up raising taxes.)

After spending weeks blaming FBI director James Comey's email investigations for her loss, Hillary Clinton and her campaign manager John Podesta quickly shifted gears and started blaming Russian "fake news" for spreading lies about her. Shortly after, the Russian conspiracy went full-on Info Wars, with everyone in Trump's cabinet being suspected of being a Russian lapdog. At least two Trump cabinet picks have already been punished for talking to Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak, with National Security Advisor Michael Flynn being forced to resign and Attorney General Jeff Sessions forced to hold an emergency press conference explaining his meeting with Kislyak before recusing himself of being part of the investigation into Trump's ties with Russia.

Even the notion of business ties to Russia is deemed toxic.

Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska was featured in an AP Exclusive last week about a 2005 meeting with Paul Manafort, Trump's first campaign advisor. Manafort was forced out after it was revealed he worked as a consultant for Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych, kicked out of power in February 2014 and replaced by a pro-Western government. The AP article said that Manafort was representing Deripaska's interest in the U.S. and, by extension, that of Vladimir Putin as well.

But Manafort did what every foreign lobbyist would do for his client under the Foreign Agent Registration Action: tell his foreign client that he would "be offering a great service that can re-focus, both internally and externally, the policies of the Putin government." This is precisely why foreign companies and foreign nations hire American lobbyists, to offer them a service that presents them in the best possible light, which by default is good for the country's leaders and biggest businesses. K Street is loaded with them. (For example...)

See: CNBC Quotes Putin

Deripaska paid for an op-ed in the WSJ (much to The Washington Post's dismay) where he called the AP story "a malicious assertion and a lie." He said the article, "causes unfair and unjustified concerns and alarm in the U.S. Congress about Russian involvement in U.S. domestic affairs. Context often creates an illusion of 'might be true' information though it is based on complete and full lies."

Deripaska, a FORBES listed billionaire worth an estimated $5.3 billion, offered himself to the House Intelligence Committee to provide his view of Russian relations with the Trump team.

Cutmore asked Putin if Russian government officials could offer themselves up as well. Putin said that Russian congressional leaders can talk to their American counterparts if the two sides agree. Regarding Deripaska, he said "it is in his right to do so. If the U.S. is setting forth all these claims against him then why not?"

The U.S. banned Deripaska from entering the U.S. in 2007 for his ties to organized crime.

"Doing business is a complex matter so maybe there were some breaches of faith," Putin said of Deripaska. "Let the evidence present itself."

Putin also reiterated what Foreign Ministry officials have said since the Kislyak tapes were leaked to the press, that his ambassador is in Washington to talk to congress and American businesses. "His job is to maintain contact with the U.S. government, otherwise why would he be there? American businesses sometimes come to Russia and talk to our businesses and meet with cabinet members. Do you really want to go to extremes on this? What is all this leading up to?" he asked Cutmore. "These allegations are groundless...illusory fabrications. Lies," he said.

In moments with the international press, Putin is famous for bringing up past breaches of confidence between Washington and Moscow. This time was no different. He spoke of a cybersecurity agreement proposed by Moscow a few years ago that was rejected by Washington. Putin wondered out loud if it is better for Washington to blame rivals for hacking and cyber espionage than to have a cybersecurity deal.

The last time Putin addressed an American media company was in Sept. 2015 on 60 Minutes. Putin was in New York to address the United Nations Security Council. Sanctions against Russia for its activities in Ukraine were two months old. And Russia had just authorized air strikes against ISIS and U.S. backed rebel groups fighting the Bashar Assad government in Syria. From that day on, Russia became a bigger bogey man.

According to polls, most Americans see Russia as an adversary.

Speaking through a translator, Putin said "We know that many Americans are not okay with Russia, but I want to tell these people that we perceive the United States as a great power and we want good relations."

Putin was taking part in a panel discussion at the International Arctic Forum in Arkhangelsk, Russia.

Outside of politics, Putin said the U.S. and Russia were cooperating in the Arctic "believe it or not." He noted that Russia and the U.S. have visa free travel across some Alaskan islands in the Bering Sea that are close to Russia. He said Arctic countries, which includes the U.S. because of Alaska, need to tackle over-fishing and protect the polar bear populations, but Russia and the region's main interest is hydrocarbons. "There is huge potential there for Russia, and all Arctic nations," he said.

When Putin speaks, the market listens? VanEck Russia (RSX) opened roughly 1% higher on Thursday, beating the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, Brazil, India and China, which are all down today.

Find me on Twitter at @BRICBreaker