Angela Rye Slams Former Rep. Joe Walsh: 'That's What Makes You A Bigot!'
Angela Rye Slams Former Rep. Joe Walsh: 'That's What Makes You A Bigot!'
CNN commentator Angela Rye had no patience for former Congressman Joe Walsh (R-Ill.) when he said the bar was lowered for President Barack Obama because of his race. “I’m not talking to bigots,” Rye said during a CNN segment Wednesday . Rye and Walsh were invited on air to discuss what started as a Twitter fight. In response to Rye saying that Obama “had to be the next best thing to Jesus” during his presidency, Walsh argued that the president was held to a lower standard during his two terms because he is black. . @angela_rye And your way wrong on your main point Angela. We LOWERED the bar for Obama. He was held to a lower standard cuz he was black. https://t.co/OMXphLZUTj Rye criticized CNN for bringing Walsh on the air. “I am not interested in trying to convince and change the mind of a bigot, someone who will openly troll me and say things that are offensive that he knows are not true,” Rye told host Brooke Baldwin. When Walsh repeatedly defended his comment, Rye succinctly responded, “That’s what makes you a bigot!” She added, “I’m not interested in having a dialogue with someone like Joe, who has demonstrated a propensity towards bigotry, and he did that on Twitter yesterday, in 140 characters or less.” Watch the fiery exchange in the video above. ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE: From Our Partners

CNN commentator Angela Rye had no patience for former Congressman Joe Walsh (R-Ill.) when he said the bar was lowered for President Barack Obama because of his race.

“I’m not talking to bigots,” Rye said during a CNN segment Wednesday.

Rye and Walsh were invited on air to discuss what started as a Twitter fight. In response to Rye saying that Obama “had to be the next best thing to Jesus” during his presidency, Walsh argued that the president was held to a lower standard during his two terms because he is black.

.@angela_rye And your way wrong on your main point Angela. We LOWERED the bar for Obama. He was held to a lower standard cuz he was black. https://t.co/OMXphLZUTj — Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) March 28, 2017

Rye criticized CNN for bringing Walsh on the air.

“I am not interested in trying to convince and change the mind of a bigot, someone who will openly troll me and say things that are offensive that he knows are not true,” Rye told host Brooke Baldwin.

When Walsh repeatedly defended his comment, Rye succinctly responded, “That’s what makes you a bigot!”

She added, “I’m not interested in having a dialogue with someone like Joe, who has demonstrated a propensity towards bigotry, and he did that on Twitter yesterday, in 140 characters or less.”