Prince of Wales tries out a traditional dance in Romania
Prince of Wales tries out a traditional dance in Romania
he Prince of Wales has embarked on his tour of European diplomacy in tried and tested Royal fashion: ingratiating himself with Romanian locals with a traditional dance. The Prince did not need to be asked twice when a group of traditional performers invited him to join them as he toured a museum in Bucharest. He took the hand of a young woman from the Burnasul ensemble and linked up with others to form a circle for a dance known as Hora. he Prince has danced his way around the globe in recent years, trying his hand at the foxtrot in Christchurch, New Zealand, and a traditional sword dance in the Middle East. His moment to join the fun came when he visited the museum in the Romanian capital, a popular tourist attraction which features replicas of rural homes and churches. The Prince is on a nine-day tour of Europe and arrived in Romania on Wednesday, the day Article 50 was triggered to start the formal process of the UK severing ties with the EU. He reaffirmed his and Britain's friendship with Romania and its people and pledged that it would endure despite Brexit. peaking after a bilateral meeting with President Klaus Iohannis in Bucharest on Wednesday night, he said: "It means a very great deal to me to have built a special partnership with Romania. "I know that the United Kingdom has also built a very deep and special partnership with your nation. I know that will endure, as will my own." The Prince, patron of the FARA Foundation, will today visit an orphanage run by the charity which transforms the lives of vulnerable and traumatised children and young people. e will also have tea with the Romanian royal family before attending a reception with individuals who have contributed to Anglo-Romanian relations. His nine-day tour also includes trips to Italy, the Vatican and Austria, with his wife the Duchess of Cornwall due to join him in Florence.

The Prince of Wales has embarked on his tour of European diplomacy in tried and tested Royal fashion: ingratiating himself with Romanian locals with a traditional dance.

The Prince did not need to be asked twice when a group of traditional performers invited him to join them as he toured a museum in Bucharest.

He took the hand of a young woman from the Burnasul ensemble and linked up with others to form a circle for a dance known as Hora.