See the Reactions to Chris Brown's Appearance on 'Black-ish'
See the Reactions to Chris Brown's Appearance on 'Black-ish' 
When it was announced that Chris Brown was going to appear on an episode of , many people wondered why the show was working with someone with a long history of violence against women. When the show actually aired on Wednesday night, viewers had a wide range of reactions. A large number of fans were disappointed that Brown appeared on the program at all. Blackish was my favorite show.... Then Chris Brown showed up. #Disappointed  #  # I thought Chris Brown in this #blackish epic was going to be about how we continue to support men who abuse women but no CB got another I am very disappointed that #Blackish had Chris Brown on as a guest! I guess being as abuser is considered ok now?! . Why the fuck is Chris Brown on #Blackish ? 😷 # you rush home to see Blackish then you find out Chris Brown is a special guest star... @BlackishWriters  ? pic.twitter.com/ I don't understand how this #Blackish episode was about being mindful of depictions of black people and it included Chris Brown, but okay. Others were willing to forgive and forget. All these people talking bout why brown on #blackish   president a pervert. the man made a mistake 8 ago get over it. can be mad all want about Chris Brown being on Blackish. It gone change nothing. The episode comes on tonight so oh well :) And some mega-fans weren't concerned about Brown's history at all, and just watched the show. Another great episode of #Blackish  killed it. Had me cracking up every minute on #blackish best 30 ever star Anthony Anderson told ABC News that he was okay with the singer, who Anderson first met when Brown was 14, appearing on the program. "

When it was announced that Chris Brown was going to appear on an episode of Black-ish, many people wondered why the show was working with someone with a long history of violence against women.

When the show actually aired on Wednesday night, viewers had a wide range of reactions. A large number of fans were disappointed that Brown appeared on the program at all.

I thought Chris Brown in this #blackish epic was going to be about how we continue to support men who abuse women but no CB got another chk — S.A. Reed (@s_a_reed) March 30, 2017

I am very disappointed that #Blackish had Chris Brown on as a guest! I guess being as abuser is considered ok now?! — Everyday Me ( @EverydayUU ) March 30, 2017

Ew. Why the fuck is Chris Brown on #Blackish? 😷 — Jameson ( @Jetta_Jameson ) March 30, 2017

#TFW you rush home to see Blackish then you find out Chris Brown is a special guest star...@BlackishWriters Wyd? pic.twitter.com/wmenb39hum — The Harlem Shimmy ( @Say_Yes_2theJes ) March 30, 2017

I don't understand how this #Blackish episode was about being mindful of depictions of black people and it included Chris Brown, but okay. — Camryn Garrett ( @dancingofpens ) March 30, 2017

Others were willing to forgive and forget.

All these people talking bout why chris brown on #blackish shutup yall president a pervert. the man made a mistake 8 yrs ago get over it. — Trez ( @courtesy872 ) March 30, 2017

Yall can be mad all yall want about Chris Brown being on Blackish. It aint gone change nothing. The episode comes on tonight so oh well :) — ❤ Privacy ❤ ( @avibebreezy ) March 29, 2017

And some mega-fans weren't concerned about Brown's history at all, and just watched the show.

Another great episode of #Blackish @chrisbrown killed it. Had me cracking up every minute 😂🤣😂 — Kenneth Appleton ( @Official_LK513 ) March 30, 2017

Black-ish star Anthony Anderson told ABC News that he was okay with the singer, who Anderson first met when Brown was 14, appearing on the program. "He did a masterful job," Anderson said. "I think people are going to be pleasantly surprised by the work that he did."