Not Just Deepika, Tiger Shroff Also Battled Hardcore Depression After 'A Flying Jatt' Flopped
Not Just Deepika, Tiger Shroff Also Battled Hardcore Depression After 'A Flying Jatt' Flopped
Not Just Deepika, Tiger Shroff Also Battled Hardcore Depression After 'A Flying Jatt' Flopped Tiger Shroff ventured into Bollywood in 2014 playing the lead role in action-comedy , which also earned him a Filmfare award for best male debut. However, his journey in Bollywood hasn't been a bed of roses. After Deepika Padukone openly admitted that she was a victim of depression following the death of one her close friends, Tiger Shroff has also shared his story with the world revealing that he battled the mental disorder too. Tiger Shroff revealed that his “hardcore depression” lasted a month. “This year I started on a high with Baaghi (2016). I was over the moon when it opened on 12 crore and did 15 crore on a Sunday. For a newcomer and for a second film, that’s pretty good. And then kept going up. But when the numbers for A Flying Jatt came in, I thought, ‘I put in so much work, why didn’t they like it?,” he said while talking to a leading magazine. And his next film helped him to get over it. “A month of hard- core depression. A lot of emotional eating. When I started shooting for Munna Michael, I was still in that mindset. I didn’t have any drive. But after I finished my first schedule, I thought, ‘I can’t wait for people to see this now.'” is Tiger’s forthcoming dance-musical project, which also stars Nawazuddin Siddiqui as well as Ronit Roy in prominent roles. While there were rumours that his alleged girlfriend Disha Patani has been cast alongside him, director Sabbir Khan rubbished the rumours. Now, model Nidhhi Agerwal's name is doing the rounds.

Tiger Shroff ventured into Bollywood in 2014 playing the lead role in action-comedy Heropanti, which also earned him a Filmfare award for best male debut. However, his journey in Bollywood hasn't been a bed of roses.

After Deepika Padukone openly admitted that she was a victim of depression following the death of one her close friends, Tiger Shroff has also shared his story with the world revealing that he battled the mental disorder too.

fhmpakistan.com

Tiger Shroff revealed that his “hardcore depression” lasted a month.

“This year I started on a high with Baaghi (2016). I was over the moon when it opened on 12 crore and did 15 crore on a Sunday. For a newcomer and for a second film, that’s pretty good. And then kept going up. But when the numbers for A Flying Jatt came in, I thought, ‘I put in so much work, why didn’t they like it?,” he said while talking to a leading magazine.

baltana.com

And his next film helped him to get over it.

“A month of hard- core depression. A lot of emotional eating. When I started shooting for Munna Michael, I was still in that mindset. I didn’t have any drive. But after I finished my first schedule, I thought, ‘I can’t wait for people to see this now.'”

googleusercontent.com

Munna Michael is Tiger’s forthcoming dance-musical project, which also stars Nawazuddin Siddiqui as well as Ronit Roy in prominent roles. While there were rumours that his alleged girlfriend Disha Patani has been cast alongside him, director Sabbir Khan rubbished the rumours. Now, model Nidhhi Agerwal's name is doing the rounds.

Don't Miss 36.2 K SHARES 21 K SHARES 8.6 K SHARES 15 K SHARES