Victoria Beckham Teases 'Carpool Karaoke' Sketch With James Corden
Victoria Beckham Teases 'Carpool Karaoke' Sketch With James Corden
Victoria Beckham Teases 'Carpool Karaoke' Sketch With James Corden  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The latest Carpool Karaoke may just be something you "Wannabe" part of. AfterÂ Victoria Beckham showed a clip of her getting glammed up for some "Top secret filming"Â on herÂ Instagram story Wednesday (March 29), the former Spice GirlÂ showed fans that she was in the car with a familiar face: James Corden. "We are here about to film Carpool Karaoke," Beckham revealed before flashing the camera over to CordenÂ getting in the driver's seat. There hasn't been any official confirmation that Beckham is in fact Corden's next Carpool Karaoke guest,Â but the singer-turned-fashion designerÂ used the face with tears of joy emojiÂ in the caption of her clip --Â as if to hint that whatever they're doing isn't serious. Nevertheless,Â Â wasn't afraid to hint thatÂ Â is definitely going on involvingÂ Corden and Beckham.  "Just wait till you see what we're up to withÂ @victoriabeckham!," the show wrote along with a picture of Beckham and Corden from the same day. Beckham appeared onÂ Â the same night she teased her mysteriousÂ clip, but nothing seemingly came to fruition on theÂ Carpool Karaoke front. Instead, she talked about her son Brooklyn Beckham moving away to college and Corden tested what would make Beckham wince with a game of "Flinch."Â Thus, we remain very curious about what Corden and Beckham were doing in a car together. Watch Beckham's Carpool Karaoke tease below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The latest Carpool Karaoke may just be something you "Wannabe" part of.

AfterÂ Victoria Beckham showed a clip of her getting glammed up for some "Top secret filming"Â on herÂ Instagram story Wednesday (March 29), the former Spice GirlÂ showed fans that she was in the car with a familiar face: James Corden. "We are here about to film Carpool Karaoke," Beckham revealed before flashing the camera over to CordenÂ getting in the driver's seat.

There hasn't been any official confirmation that Beckham is in fact Corden's next Carpool Karaoke guest,Â but the singer-turned-fashion designerÂ used the face with tears of joy emojiÂ in the caption of her clip --Â as if to hint that whatever they're doing isn't serious. Nevertheless,Â The Late Late ShowÂ wasn't afraid to hint thatÂ somethingÂ is definitely going on involvingÂ Corden and Beckham.

"Just wait till you see what we're up to withÂ @victoriabeckham!," the show wrote along with a picture of Beckham and Corden from the same day.

Beckham appeared onÂ The Late Late ShowÂ the same night she teased her mysteriousÂ clip, but nothing seemingly came to fruition on theÂ Carpool Karaoke front. Instead, she talked about her son Brooklyn Beckham moving away to college and Corden tested what would make Beckham wince with a game of "Flinch."Â Thus, we remain very curious about what Corden and Beckham were doing in a car together.

Watch Beckham's Carpool Karaoke tease below.