Son of Greggs founder jailed for more than 13 years for child sex abuse

Press Association     The son of the founder of the Greggs bakers chain has been jailed for 13-and-a-half years after being branded a “sophisticated, predatory paedophile” by a judge. Colin Gregg, 75, was sentenced at Newcastle crown court having been convicted of nine counts of indecent assault on four boys over a period of decades. Gregg, who helped build up the family business and also worked as a social worker, abused his positions of trust as a teacher and headteacher to sexually abuse boys, Judge Robin Mairs said. He had denied all the charges, claiming he was the victim of a “witch hunt” and that the complainants were looking for compensation. Gregg grew wealthy from the family business and helped to raise thousands of pounds for children’s charities, the court heard. The judge said: “It is true you have enjoyed great wealth, privilege and social standing. “It is also true that you used those benefits as a cloak of respectability behind which you sexually abused young boys. You were a charismatic, inspiring teacher and mentor but you used those attributes to groom boys and to protect yourself from allegations.” Gregg’s defence was that the complainants were fantasists and liars, but the judge said the jury heard their evidence and they were convinced it was the defendant who was lying. The judge said: “What it demonstrated is that there is not a shred of remorse within you for your offending and the utter contempt for the complainants as children found its echo in your contempt for them as men.” Gregg, of Homefarm Steading, Gosforth, Newcastle, abused one victim in a swimming pool, the others were molested in a gym, his study or a car. The judge said: “This was sophisticated predatory behaviour, you are a sophisticated predatory paedophile.”  UK news

Colin Gregg, 75, who help build the bakery chain, called a ‘predatory paedophile’ by judge at Newcastle crown court



The son of the founder of the Greggs bakers chain has been jailed for 13-and-a-half years after being branded a “sophisticated, predatory paedophile” by a judge.

Colin Gregg, 75, was sentenced at Newcastle crown court having been convicted of nine counts of indecent assault on four boys over a period of decades.

Gregg, who helped build up the family business and also worked as a social worker, abused his positions of trust as a teacher and headteacher to sexually abuse boys, Judge Robin Mairs said.

He had denied all the charges, claiming he was the victim of a “witch hunt” and that the complainants were looking for compensation.

Son of Greggs bakery founder goes on trial for child sexual abuse Read more

Gregg grew wealthy from the family business and helped to raise thousands of pounds for children’s charities, the court heard.

The judge said: “It is true you have enjoyed great wealth, privilege and social standing.

“It is also true that you used those benefits as a cloak of respectability behind which you sexually abused young boys. You were a charismatic, inspiring teacher and mentor but you used those attributes to groom boys and to protect yourself from allegations.”

Gregg’s defence was that the complainants were fantasists and liars, but the judge said the jury heard their evidence and they were convinced it was the defendant who was lying.

The judge said: “What it demonstrated is that there is not a shred of remorse within you for your offending and the utter contempt for the complainants as children found its echo in your contempt for them as men.”

Gregg, of Homefarm Steading, Gosforth, Newcastle, abused one victim in a swimming pool, the others were molested in a gym, his study or a car.

The judge said: “This was sophisticated predatory behaviour, you are a sophisticated predatory paedophile.”