You May Have More Retirement Income Available Than You Thought
You May Have More Retirement Income Available Than You Thought
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Financial Finesse       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Along with concerns about declining health, outliving their savings is one of the biggest fears among retirees, according to a recent survey conducted by the Transamerica Center for Retirement Studies®. However, this financial fear may be less scary than most people imagine when we consider the variety of retirement income sources available to us. If you thought your 401(k) or a similar retirement account was your only option for funding retirement, you may be pleasantly surprised to find out you have access to several different retirement income sources and strategies. An ideal retirement would be one where we have all the income we might ever need for every year of our life, however long that might be. While none of us knows exactly how long we might live , perhaps the best approach to funding our lifetime income needs is to take stock of exactly how many different sources of income we might be able to tap into during this stage of our lives. For instance, steady, stable income streams from Social Security, pensions, or income annuities could be used to pay for necessary living expenses, while savings from 401(k)s, IRAs, health savings accounts (HSAs) or similar investment accounts would be used to fund “lifestyle” expenses such as travel and recreation. Home equity may even serve as another potential source of backup retirement income, if needed.  Let’s take a closer look at these potential retirement income sources: - Among the income sources available to most workers, Social Security retirement income benefits can provide a substantial measure of longevity protection. Although it can be tempting to apply for these benefits as soon as they become available at age 62, doing so locks in a lifetime of smaller payments – approximately 25-30% smaller than the amount available at one’s full retirement age (66-67, depending upon birth year). For even more longevity protection, delaying these benefits as late as possible to age 70 provides a benefit amount that is approximately 24% to 32% higher than the amount received at full retirement age. Actuarially, the lifetime benefit amount is roughly the same for someone who claims a smaller amount early as for someone who delays and claims a larger amount later, assuming they each die at the same age. However, cost-of-living adjustments are based on one’s starting benefit amount, which means these COLA adjustments will be a percentage of a larger benefit amount for those who delay. Furthermore, delaying Social Security benefits ensures a larger survivor benefit amount for one’s surviving spouse. – Although availability of retirement pensions has significantly declined in the corporate world, government workers at various levels often still have access to these potential lifetime streams of retirement income. A key question pension beneficiaries often ask is "should I take the lump sum or the lifetime payments?" See this post for some things to consider. – Often thought of as the bulk of our retirement income, your retirement savings plan at work may actually be the resource you rely upon the least in retirement, depending upon your lifestyle needs, how much you receive from Social Security, and whether or not you have access to pension dollars from your current employer or a past job. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Along with concerns about declining health, outliving their savings is one of the biggest fears among retirees, according to a recent survey conducted by the Transamerica Center for Retirement Studies®. However, this financial fear may be less scary than most people imagine when we consider the variety of retirement income sources available to us. If you thought your 401(k) or a similar retirement account was your only option for funding retirement, you may be pleasantly surprised to find out you have access to several different retirement income sources and strategies.

Multiple Sources of Retirement Income

An ideal retirement would be one where we have all the income we might ever need for every year of our life, however long that might be. While none of us knows exactly how long we might live, perhaps the best approach to funding our lifetime income needs is to take stock of exactly how many different sources of income we might be able to tap into during this stage of our lives. For instance, steady, stable income streams from Social Security, pensions, or income annuities could be used to pay for necessary living expenses, while savings from 401(k)s, IRAs, health savings accounts (HSAs) or similar investment accounts would be used to fund “lifestyle” expenses such as travel and recreation. Home equity may even serve as another potential source of backup retirement income, if needed. Let’s take a closer look at these potential retirement income sources:

Social Security - Among the income sources available to most workers, Social Security retirement income benefits can provide a substantial measure of longevity protection. Although it can be tempting to apply for these benefits as soon as they become available at age 62, doing so locks in a lifetime of smaller payments – approximately 25-30% smaller than the amount available at one’s full retirement age (66-67, depending upon birth year). For even more longevity protection, delaying these benefits as late as possible to age 70 provides a benefit amount that is approximately 24% to 32% higher than the amount received at full retirement age.

Actuarially, the lifetime benefit amount is roughly the same for someone who claims a smaller amount early as for someone who delays and claims a larger amount later, assuming they each die at the same age. However, cost-of-living adjustments are based on one’s starting benefit amount, which means these COLA adjustments will be a percentage of a larger benefit amount for those who delay. Furthermore, delaying Social Security benefits ensures a larger survivor benefit amount for one’s surviving spouse.

Pensions – Although availability of retirement pensions has significantly declined in the corporate world, government workers at various levels often still have access to these potential lifetime streams of retirement income. A key question pension beneficiaries often ask is "should I take the lump sum or the lifetime payments?" See this post for some things to consider.

401(k)/403(b) – Often thought of as the bulk of our retirement income, your retirement savings plan at work may actually be the resource you rely upon the least in retirement, depending upon your lifestyle needs, how much you receive from Social Security, and whether or not you have access to pension dollars from your current employer or a past job.