Paul Ryan: Devin Nunes Source a ‘Whistleblower Type’
Paul Ryan: Devin Nunes Source a 'Whistleblower Type' - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Thursday on “CBS This Morning,” House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) shed some on the investigation by House Intelligence Committee chairman Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) into potential interference by Russia in last year’s presidential election. FOR OUR NEWSLETTER “He had told me that like a whistleblower type person had given him some information that was new, that spoke to the last administration and part of this investigation,” Ryan said. “He briefed me about it. Didn’t know the content of it, only knew the content of it and that he was going to brief others.” O’Donnell asked if Ryan if he saw the documents, to which Ryan said he did not. “He didn’t have the documents, so I didn’t,” Ryan replied. “He was going to brief everybody.” Ryan also said he did not encourage him to tell President Donald Trump, but reiterated Nunes’ intentions to brief everyone.

. @SpeakerRyan says Nunes told him that "like a whistleblower-type person had given him some info that was new." https://t.co/dVqkkpkv2d pic.twitter.com/kYqIyUEZRG

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Thursday on “CBS This Morning,” House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) shed some on the investigation by House Intelligence Committee chairman Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) into potential interference by Russia in last year’s presidential election.

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

“He had told me that like a whistleblower type person had given him some information that was new, that spoke to the last administration and part of this investigation,” Ryan said. “He briefed me about it. Didn’t know the content of it, only knew the content of it and that he was going to brief others.”

O’Donnell asked if Ryan if he saw the documents, to which Ryan said he did not.

“He didn’t have the documents, so I didn’t,” Ryan replied. “He was going to brief everybody.”

Ryan also said he did not encourage him to tell President Donald Trump, but reiterated Nunes’ intentions to brief everyone.

Follow Jeff Poor on Twitter @jeff_poor