Australian cyclone leaves shark stranded upstream
Australian cyclone leaves shark stranded upstream 
Shares               The calm after the storm wasn't so calm after emergency crews on Thursday found an unexpected shark out of water on a flooded road in Queensland, Australia. Residents of Queensland were warned to stay out of the floodwaters after Cyclone Debbie left an almost five-foot long bull shark washed up on an inland road.  Think it's safe to go back in the water? Think again! A bull shark washed up in Ayr. Stay out of floodwater. #TCDebbie  #ifitsfloodedforgetit  pic.twitter.com/DpP29Va1JG  A Queensland Fire and Emergency Services crew spotted the aquatic predator while doing checks of flooded roads in the Queensland town, Ayr, just north of where Debbie made landfall.   The ex-tropical cyclone slammed into Australia's northeast coast as a fierce Category 4 storm on Tuesday and caused widespread damage from extreme wind, rains and flooding. Shares                  Australian cyclone leaves shark stranded upstream   Federal judge extends halt on Trump travel ban   China's Xi to meet Trump in Mar-a-Lago on April 6-7   NC lawmakers reach deal to repeal the state's 'bathroom bill'   Elizabeth Smart's father speaks out about missing teen   Trump administration drops human rights in Bahrain F-16 deal   Ex-Christie aide gets prison term for bridge revenge plot   Fossils millions of years old swiped from Death Valley National Park   US military opens investigation into Mosul airstrike   Fire survivor teaches children fire-safety tools that saved his family   Millennials, hoping to find real connections, ban the booze   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life   Bride surprises grandmother in hospital after wedding   Kid suffers 3rd-degree burns after DIY slime project   After winning shot, college star gets standing ovation in morning class   Firefighters rescue kitten stuck inside wall   Runners help fatigued racer to half-marathon finish line   Premature deaths rise in US as opioid epidemic worsens: Report   Ford recalls 570K vehicles for fire risk, door latch trouble   Dallas-area storms leave nearly 200,000 without power   Arab leaders ready to work with Trump on Mideast peace deal   Court bars release of videos made by anti-abortion group   Missing teen, ex-teacher may be in Mexico: Officials   Teacher visited teen at work before alleged kidnapping, sister says   What we don't know about Nunes' White House grounds visit   Chris Christie on Nunes: Recusal is a 'personal decision'   Everything you need to know about House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes   Motorcyclist describes witnessing his friend fly off a cliff: 'I thought he was dead'   Cambodia marks 20 years since deadly grenade attack   Jackie Evancho wants to tell Trump of the 'horrors' her transgender sister has faced   Academy announces changes after best picture Oscar flub   'DWTS' pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy taking injury 'very seriously'   Reporter's notebook: What I learned from being in a metabolic chamber

The calm after the storm wasn't so calm after emergency crews on Thursday found an unexpected shark out of water on a flooded road in Queensland, Australia.

Residents of Queensland were warned to stay out of the floodwaters after Cyclone Debbie left an almost five-foot long bull shark washed up on an inland road.

Think it's safe to go back in the water? Think again! A bull shark washed up in Ayr. Stay out of floodwater. #TCDebbie #ifitsfloodedforgetit pic.twitter.com/DpP29Va1JG — Qld Fire & Emergency (@QldFES) March 30, 2017

A Queensland Fire and Emergency Services crew spotted the aquatic predator while doing checks of flooded roads in the Queensland town, Ayr, just north of where Debbie made landfall.

Qld Fire & Emergency

The ex-tropical cyclone slammed into Australia's northeast coast as a fierce Category 4 storm on Tuesday and caused widespread damage from extreme wind, rains and flooding.