How '13 Reasons Why' is different than other YA adaptations
How '13 Reasons Why' is different than other YA adaptations
When Divergent's installment flopped at the box office last year , many in Hollywood began questioning whether young-adult adaptations could remain popular. After all, not every young adult book can translate into a Hollywood hit like the adaptation of John Green's which ended up amassing more than $300 million at the worldwide box office in 2014. But Netflix's an adaptation of the young adult novel by Jay Asher, serves as a reminder that there is a way to make an adaptation about teens resonate with more than just one audience. SEE ALSO: Your next Netflix obsession '13 Reasons Why' is full of love, revenge and death The show follows the mysterious suicide of Hannah Baker (Katherine Langford). The high schooler left behind a series of audiotapes detailing the 13 reasons (they are all people) why she ended her life. Each episode focuses in on a different tape, given to the 13 people including her admirer and friend Clay (Dylan Minnette). "A lot of YA books are predictable now," Minnette said in an interview with . "But this show is not just for teen audiences. It's a very serious subject matter that connects with teens and adults on a major level." It's true: In both the book and the show, Hannah faces ugly rumors and uglier truths (no spoilers), factors that play in to her decision to end her life. In the the aftermath of Hannah's death, teachers and parents are trying to help the kids cope. The book, which was published by Razorbill in 2007, stayed on the bestseller list for eight years straight. It had such an impact on readers that it inspired the Thirteen Reasons Why Project , an online community created by the publisher designed for readers to as a forum to share reactions to the story in an effort to encourage discussions on teen suicide and bullying prevention. It's the serious subject matter that first grabbed the attention of artist and actress Selena Gomez. She and her mom Mandy Teefey — who are executive producers on the show — saw the book at a Barnes & Noble in 2008 and immediately began negotiating with Asher for the rights. 2 days til @13ReasonsWhy … Here's a 1st listen to my cover of "Only You” from the soundtrack, inspired by Hannah and Clay's story. Out 3/30! pic.twitter.com/aSrAFhpFoY — Selena Gomez (@selenagomez) March 29, 2017 "I think [Jay Asher] understood that I knew what it meant to be bullied," Gomez told "I went to the biggest high school in the world, which is the Disney Channel. And my mom had a lot of history dealing with [bullying]. I heard her stories growing up. She’s very open about it." Eventually Netflix came on board with the adaptation, as did Academy Award-winning director Tom McCarthy ( ) and Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Brian Yorkey (who adapted the novel). Leads Langford and Minnette — who are poised to become household names after their breakout performances — emphasized that the show is meant to both entertain and help draw attention to the bigger issues. "I do hope it starts dialogue about issues we don’t talk openly about" "Yes, it’s a piece of entertainment —  I don’t think it’s a PSA at all — but I do hope it starts dialogue about issues we don’t talk openly about,"  Langford said. "I hope when people watch it maybe it will inspire them to kind of think more about what they are doing to the people around them." "I think the goal is ... that the show brings awareness,"  Minnette added. "I hope people watching can sit down and talk about how they can change their lives, how they can be better, how they can benefit others. I don’t want to be famous from this, I just want to make people talk." Reviewers are already suggesting the series is a binge-worthy addition to Netflix's growing library of content geared toward younger audiences. Netflix has rolled out a marketing campaign catered to younger viewers, including with a launch of a special Tumblr page for the show. The streamer partnered with Books on the Subway to hand out copies of the novel to subway commuters. "It plays like a more ambitious version of the scripted fare on MTV or what was once known as ABC Family," wrote Brian Lowry. "This isn't some teen drama that Netflix added to its stacked 2017 slate," wrote Proma Khosla in her review . "It's sensitive and cathartic and even when it hurts the show has the capacity to heal." debuts on Netflix on March 31. WATCH: The hidden clues lurking in the 'Stranger Things' Season 2 trailer

When Divergent's Allegiant installment flopped at the box office last year, many in Hollywood began questioning whether young-adult adaptations could remain popular.

After all, not every young adult book can translate into a Hollywood hit like the adaptation of John Green's Fault in Our Stars, which ended up amassing more than $300 million at the worldwide box office in 2014.

But Netflix's 13 Reasons Why, an adaptation of the young adult novel by Jay Asher, serves as a reminder that there is a way to make an adaptation about teens resonate with more than just one audience.

The show follows the mysterious suicide of Hannah Baker (Katherine Langford). The high schooler left behind a series of audiotapes detailing the 13 reasons (they are all people) why she ended her life. Each episode focuses in on a different tape, given to the 13 people including her admirer and friend Clay (Dylan Minnette).

"A lot of YA books are predictable now," Minnette said in an interview with Mashable. "But this show is not just for teen audiences. It's a very serious subject matter that connects with teens and adults on a major level."

It's true: In both the book and the show, Hannah faces ugly rumors and uglier truths (no spoilers), factors that play in to her decision to end her life. In the the aftermath of Hannah's death, teachers and parents are trying to help the kids cope.

The book, which was published by Razorbill in 2007, stayed on the New York Times bestseller list for eight years straight. It had such an impact on readers that it inspired the Thirteen Reasons Why Project, an online community created by the publisher designed for readers to as a forum to share reactions to the story in an effort to encourage discussions on teen suicide and bullying prevention.

It's the serious subject matter that first grabbed the attention of artist and actress Selena Gomez. She and her mom Mandy Teefey — who are executive producers on the show — saw the book at a Barnes & Noble in 2008 and immediately began negotiating with Asher for the rights.

2 days til @13ReasonsWhy… Here's a 1st listen to my cover of "Only You” from the soundtrack, inspired by Hannah and Clay's story. Out 3/30! pic.twitter.com/aSrAFhpFoY — Selena Gomez (@selenagomez) March 29, 2017

"I think [Jay Asher] understood that I knew what it meant to be bullied," Gomez told The New York Times. "I went to the biggest high school in the world, which is the Disney Channel. And my mom had a lot of history dealing with [bullying]. I heard her stories growing up. She’s very open about it."

Eventually Netflix came on board with the adaptation, as did Academy Award-winning director Tom McCarthy (Spotlight) and Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Brian Yorkey (who adapted the novel).

Leads Langford and Minnette — who are poised to become household names after their breakout performances — emphasized that the show is meant to both entertain and help draw attention to the bigger issues.

"I do hope it starts dialogue about issues we don’t talk openly about"

"Yes, it’s a piece of entertainment — I don’t think it’s a PSA at all — but I do hope it starts dialogue about issues we don’t talk openly about," Langford said. "I hope when people watch it maybe it will inspire them to kind of think more about what they are doing to the people around them."

"I think the goal is ... that the show brings awareness," Minnette added. "I hope people watching can sit down and talk about how they can change their lives, how they can be better, how they can benefit others. I don’t want to be famous from this, I just want to make people talk."

Reviewers are already suggesting the series is a binge-worthy addition to Netflix's growing library of content geared toward younger audiences.

Netflix has rolled out a marketing campaign catered to younger viewers, including with a launch of a special Tumblr page for the show. The streamer partnered with Books on the Subway to hand out copies of the novel to subway commuters.

"It plays like a more ambitious version of the scripted fare on MTV or what was once known as ABC Family," wrote CNN's Brian Lowry.

"This isn't some teen drama that Netflix added to its stacked 2017 slate," wrote Mashable's Proma Khosla in her review. "It's sensitive and cathartic and even when it hurts the show has the capacity to heal."

13 Reasons Why debuts on Netflix on March 31.