Ex-Trump adviser Carter Page denies working with Russians to help campaign
Ex-Trump adviser Carter Page denies working with Russians to help campaign
Campaigning Ex-Trump adviser Carter Page denies working with Russians to help campaign   A former Trump adviser at the center of the controversy over the campaign’s contacts with Moscow told Fox News he “absolutely” did not work with the Russians to help the campaign. “I did nothing that could even be … possibly viewed as helping them in any way,” Carter Page told Fox News’ Catherine Herridge. Asked if he worked with the Russians to hurt the Clinton campaign, he said: “ Absolutely not. In no way, shape or form.” Page is one of several Trump advisers and associates who have been accused by Democrats and others of having improper contact with Russians last year, amid several investigations in Washington over Russia’s meddling in the campaign. But Page told Fox News he was “paid zero by the Russians,” not even through a third party. He also criticized efforts by Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, to implicate him, and said he’s willing to talk to the committee. “That's part of the reason why I'm excited about helping the committee become much more bipartisan and taking a step in the direction of talking about facts,” he said.

A former Trump adviser at the center of the controversy over the campaign’s contacts with Moscow told Fox News he “absolutely” did not work with the Russians to help the campaign.

“I did nothing that could even be … possibly viewed as helping them in any way,” Carter Page told Fox News’ Catherine Herridge.

Asked if he worked with the Russians to hurt the Clinton campaign, he said: “ Absolutely not. In no way, shape or form.”

Page is one of several Trump advisers and associates who have been accused by Democrats and others of having improper contact with Russians last year, amid several investigations in Washington over Russia’s meddling in the campaign.

WATCH THE FIRST PART OF THE INTERVIEW WITH CARTER PAGE ON FOX NEWS’ ‘SPECIAL REPORT WITH BRET BAIER’ AT 6 P.M. ET THURSDAY.

But Page told Fox News he was “paid zero by the Russians,” not even through a third party.

He also criticized efforts by Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, to implicate him, and said he’s willing to talk to the committee.

“That's part of the reason why I'm excited about helping the committee become much more bipartisan and taking a step in the direction of talking about facts,” he said.