5 Smart Ways To Spend Your Tax Refund
5 Smart Ways To Spend Your Tax Refund
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack Friedman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. AP Photo/Matt Rourke It's tax time, and you may be expecting a tax refund this year. In 2016, the average tax refund was $2,860. According to the IRS , 111 million tax refunds totaling over $317 billion were issued last year. If you are expecting a tax refund this year, should you save it or spend it? Neither. You should your tax refund and here are 5 smart ways to make an investment in your financial future: It feels exciting to get a tax refund. Who doesn't like receiving their hard-earned money back in their pocket? But, that tax refund is you. Every day without that tax refund means you are losing out on investing those funds in your financial future. It's called the time value of money: a dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow. Why? You can invest those funds and earn a financial return on your money. Therefore, you prefer to have your money sooner rather than later so that you can invest (and earn interest) or reduce debt (and save interest). Next year, set a financial goal to eliminate your tax refund. Yes, eliminate it. When you receive a tax refund, it means that you your taxes. When you overpay your taxes, it means that you gave a free loan to the government and never got paid for it. Think of your tax refund as the government repaying that loan - without paying you interest - by simply giving you your money back. While the government had access to your money, you didn't. Contact your human resources department and update your tax forms to reflect your anticipated tax rate and deductions. You can use this year (and perhaps past tax years) as an approximate guide. You may not be able to eliminate your tax refund completely, but the net result is that your paycheck will be higher each pay period and your tax refund will be closer to zero. This way, you will have more funds at your discretion to invest during the year, rather than waiting for a refund after tax time. You never know when an emergency will strike. Whether it's an unforeseen medical expense, home repair or unemployment, don't get caught off guard. Build a financial foundation with at least six to nine months (or more) of cash to cover expenses. You can use your tax refund to help start an emergency fund if you don't already have one, or add to an existing emergency fund if you do. Keep this cash in a separate bank account and only break the glass in case of emergency. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

It's tax time, and you may be expecting a tax refund this year.

In 2016, the average tax refund was $2,860. According to the IRS, 111 million tax refunds totaling over $317 billion were issued last year.

If you are expecting a tax refund this year, should you save it or spend it?

Neither.

You should invest your tax refund and here are 5 smart ways to make an investment in your financial future:

1. Make this the last year you ever receive a tax refund

It feels exciting to get a tax refund. Who doesn't like receiving their hard-earned money back in their pocket?

But, that tax refund is costing you.

Every day without that tax refund means you are losing out on investing those funds in your financial future.

It's called the time value of money: a dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow. Why? You can invest those funds and earn a financial return on your money. Therefore, you prefer to have your money sooner rather than later so that you can invest (and earn interest) or reduce debt (and save interest).

Next year, set a financial goal to eliminate your tax refund. Yes, eliminate it.

When you receive a tax refund, it means that you overpaid your taxes. When you overpay your taxes, it means that you gave a free loan to the government and never got paid for it. Think of your tax refund as the government repaying that loan - without paying you interest - by simply giving you your money back. While the government had access to your money, you didn't.

Contact your human resources department and update your tax forms to reflect your anticipated tax rate and deductions. You can use this year (and perhaps past tax years) as an approximate guide. You may not be able to eliminate your tax refund completely, but the net result is that your paycheck will be higher each pay period and your tax refund will be closer to zero. This way, you will have more funds at your discretion to invest during the year, rather than waiting for a refund after tax time.

2. Start an emergency fund

You never know when an emergency will strike. Whether it's an unforeseen medical expense, home repair or unemployment, don't get caught off guard. Build a financial foundation with at least six to nine months (or more) of cash to cover expenses. You can use your tax refund to help start an emergency fund if you don't already have one, or add to an existing emergency fund if you do. Keep this cash in a separate bank account and only break the glass in case of emergency.