Will Democrats Filibuster to Try to Block Gorsuch From the Supreme Court?
Will Democrats Filibuster to Try to Block Gorsuch From the Supreme Court?
Democrats need to filibuster President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee. have said they support a filibuster. If Democrats filibuster, Republicans might choose to use the so-called nuclear option . President Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court, Judge Neil M. Gorsuch, needs a simple majority of 51 votes to be confirmed by the Senate next week. But he faces another obstacle first — a potential filibuster by Democrats that would prevent the vote from occurring at all. Before the Senate can vote on Mr. Gorsuch’s confirmation, it must hold a procedural vote to end debate, which requires 60 votes to pass. A filibuster essentially occurs when lawmakers refuse to end debate to move on to a final vote. It will take “no” votes from at least 41 of the 48 Democrats and independents* to filibuster Mr. Gorsuch’s confirmation vote. A filibuster would force Republicans to choose between withdrawing Mr. Gorsuch’s nomination (an unlikely prospect) and using the so-called nuclear option , which would change Senate rules to override the filibuster and allow his confirmation vote to go forward. Support filibuster Undecided or unclear *Bernie Sanders and Angus King are independents who caucus with the Democrats.

Democrats need 41 senators to filibuster President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee. 33 Democrats have said they support a filibuster. 41 If Democrats filibuster, Republicans might choose to use the so-called nuclear option.

President Trump’s nominee to the Supreme Court, Judge Neil M. Gorsuch, needs a simple majority of 51 votes to be confirmed by the Senate next week. But he faces another obstacle first — a potential filibuster by Democrats that would prevent the vote from occurring at all.

Before the Senate can vote on Mr. Gorsuch’s confirmation, it must hold a procedural vote to end debate, which requires 60 votes to pass. A filibuster essentially occurs when lawmakers refuse to end debate to move on to a final vote. It will take “no” votes from at least 41 of the 48 Democrats and independents* to filibuster Mr. Gorsuch’s confirmation vote.

A filibuster would force Republicans to choose between withdrawing Mr. Gorsuch’s nomination (an unlikely prospect) and using the so-called nuclear option, which would change Senate rules to override the filibuster and allow his confirmation vote to go forward.

How Democrats Plan To Vote

E Up for re-election in 2018 Solid Trump states

33 Support filibuster 15 Undecided or unclear 0 Against filibuster