Marco Rubio Says Hackers Targeted His Campaign Aides
Marco Rubio says hackers targeted his campaign
WASHINGTON — Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida says that that within the past 24 hours, a second hacking attempt was made against former members of his GOP presidential campaign team. Rubio spoke Thursday at a Senate intelligence committee hearing on Russian meddling in the U.S. presidential election. Rubio says his campaign team was targeted during the election and again within the past 24 hours from an unknown internet address in Russia.       An expert says Russian-directed disinformation campaigns targeted all the Republican presidential candidates. During a hearing on Russian meddling in the election, Clint Watts of the Foreign Policy Research Institute Rubio that his presidential campaign was targeted. After the hearing before the Senate intelligence committee, Watts told reporters that all the GOP candidates were targeted. And he says the Russians continue to interfere in U.S. politics, specifically targeting House Speaker Paul Ryan of late. Watts told reporters that trolling networks his research institute monitors were disseminating propaganda about dissension in the ranks of the Republican Party regarding the vote for Ryan as speaker of the House.

WASHINGTON — Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida says that that within the past 24 hours, a second hacking attempt was made against former members of his GOP presidential campaign team.

Rubio spoke Thursday at a Senate intelligence committee hearing on Russian meddling in the U.S. presidential election.

Rubio says his campaign team was targeted during the election and again within the past 24 hours from an unknown internet address in Russia.

Play Facebook

Twitter

Embed Senate Intel Hearing: 'Ample Examples' of Russian Interference in European Elections 1:17 autoplay autoplay Copy this code to your website or blog

An expert says Russian-directed disinformation campaigns targeted all the Republican presidential candidates.

During a hearing on Russian meddling in the election, Clint Watts of the Foreign Policy Research Institute Rubio that his presidential campaign was targeted.

After the hearing before the Senate intelligence committee, Watts told reporters that all the GOP candidates were targeted.

And he says the Russians continue to interfere in U.S. politics, specifically targeting House Speaker Paul Ryan of late. Watts told reporters that trolling networks his research institute monitors were disseminating propaganda about dissension in the ranks of the Republican Party regarding the vote for Ryan as speaker of the House.