Salman Khan Rings In His Nephew Ahil's First Birthday With His Khan-Daan In Maldives
Salman Khan Rings In His Nephew Ahil's First Birthday With His Khan-Daan In Maldives
Salman Khan Rings In His Nephew Ahil's First Birthday With His Khan-Daan In Maldives Bollywood's superstar Salman Khan is in Maldives celebrating his nephew Ahil's first birthday. The 51-year-old flew down from Austria where he was shooting for to be with his nephew on his special day. The rest of the Khan-daan flew out to Maldives from Mumbai to celebrate in style. Here wishing my love,mylife,my world,my lil man who's given me a reason to believe in love, life and togetherness forever. Thank you for teaching me, so many meanings of words I used and I dint understand, thank you for giving life to me , thank you for filling every void I had thank u for being u !Love u Ahil ! #ahilturns1 @amillafushi A post shared by Arpita Khan Sharma (@arpitakhansharma) on Mar 29, 2017 at 2:16pm PDT   Ahil's 'birthday crew' included everyone from Arbaaz Khan, Malaika Arora, Iulia Vantur, Alvira and husband Atul Agnihotri, Amrita Arora, Salma and Helen along with a bunch of friends with their kids also joining in the fun. #ahilturns1 @amillafushi A post shared by Arpita Khan Sharma (@arpitakhansharma) on Mar 29, 2017 at 11:48pm PDT   Mommy Arpita took to her Instagram account to share a picture of her little man with a beautiful birthday wish that read, "Here's wishing my love, my life, my world, my lil man who's given me a reason to believe in love, life and togetherness forever. Thank you for teaching me, so many meanings of words I used and I didn't understand, thank you for giving life to me, thank you for being you." So our little Prince is officially '1' now 😍 (2/2) @amillafushi #ahilturns1 #ahilsbirthday #thelittlemanturns1 #birthdayboy #1stbirthday 💗💗💗 #ahil #ahilsharma #ahilsbirthday #celebration #begins #maldives #family #birthdaybash #birthdaybaby #babyahil A post shared by Ahil Sharma (@ahilsharma30) on Mar 29, 2017 at 1:13pm PDT

Bollywood's superstar Salman Khan is in Maldives celebrating his nephew Ahil's first birthday.

Instagram/Arpita Khan

The 51-year-old flew down from Austria where he was shooting for Tiger Zinda Hai to be with his nephew on his special day.

The rest of the Khan-daan flew out to Maldives from Mumbai to celebrate in style.

Ahil's 'birthday crew' included everyone from Arbaaz Khan, Malaika Arora, Iulia Vantur, Alvira and husband Atul Agnihotri, Amrita Arora, Salma and Helen along with a bunch of friends with their kids also joining in the fun.

#ahilturns1 @amillafushi A post shared by Arpita Khan Sharma (@arpitakhansharma) on Mar 29, 2017 at 11:48pm PDT

Mommy Arpita took to her Instagram account to share a picture of her little man with a beautiful birthday wish that read, "Here's wishing my love, my life, my world, my lil man who's given me a reason to believe in love, life and togetherness forever. Thank you for teaching me, so many meanings of words I used and I didn't understand, thank you for giving life to me, thank you for being you."

Don't Miss 7.8 K SHARES 1.2 K SHARES 36.3 K SHARES 21.3 K SHARES 29.7 K SHARES