Actor Freaks Out After Accidentally Spoiling Murder Mystery on Live TV
Actor Freaks Out After Accidentally Spoiling Murder Mystery on Live TV
Kieron Richardson, star of the long-running British soap opera , appeared on , where he spoiled the murder mystery “Who killed Amy Barnes?” He did. Or rather, his character, Ste, did (Ste being short for Steven, as weird as that is). Richardson was trying to avoid talking about the plot line, instead opting to talk about the amazing acting of his co-stars. And that’s where he got into trouble. “All I’m gonna say is, Ashley Slanina-Davies, who play Amy Barnes, is absolutely fantastic in this episode. Even in the final scenes when I was … with my…” Richardson said before stopping and throwing his hands over his face, then letting out a desperate, “No.” Things started going off the rails earlier in the interview when he was asked why his character could or could not have done it. Richardson stumbled over his words for several seconds before finally giving an answer. After the mistake, he seemed genuinely concerned about losing his job. Subsequently, sent out a tweet having fun with the situation. Your Internet History May Be Up for Grabs, and “South Park” Predicted This Would Happen Mischa Barton Sits Down With Dr. Phil to Talk About Her Hospital Stay and Emotional Blackmail Tom Selleck and Kathie Lee Gifford Re-create Their “Live” Kiss Nearly 20 Years Later Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter .

Kieron Richardson, star of the long-running British soap opera Hollyoaks, appeared on This Morning, where he spoiled the murder mystery “Who killed Amy Barnes?” He did. Or rather, his character, Ste, did (Ste being short for Steven, as weird as that is). Richardson was trying to avoid talking about the plot line, instead opting to talk about the amazing acting of his co-stars. And that’s where he got into trouble.

A scene from Hollyoaks: Kieron Richardson, left, Nicole Barber-Lane, and Nick Rhys (back to camera). Photo: © Channel 4 / Courtesy: Everett Collection More

“All I’m gonna say is, Ashley Slanina-Davies, who play Amy Barnes, is absolutely fantastic in this episode. Even in the final scenes when I was … with my…” Richardson said before stopping and throwing his hands over his face, then letting out a desperate, “No.”

Things started going off the rails earlier in the interview when he was asked why his character could or could not have done it. Richardson stumbled over his words for several seconds before finally giving an answer.

After the mistake, he seemed genuinely concerned about losing his job. Subsequently, Hollyoaks sent out a tweet having fun with the situation.

Watch perpetual prankster Michael Carbonaro freak out Today show anchors:

Watch more at Yahoo TV:

Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Khail Anonymous, on Twitter.