This Girl Captured The Exact Moment A Seagull Stole Her Ice Cream And It's Intense
This Girl Captured The Exact Moment A Seagull Stole Her Ice Cream And It's Intense
"We all wanted to get ice cream," Kris told BuzzFeed News. "I got my ice cream first, so I came out and you could see all of Santa Barbara from where I was standing, so yeah - I thought it would be a pretty picture and I took it."   I CAN'T BELIEVE THIS HAPPENED Y'ALL????????????? RIP MY ICE CREAM                                  "People think I was hand feeding the bird but it LITERALLY swooped in and took the ice cream cone right away," said Kris. "It flew off with it in its mouth but there's no real grip on ice cream so it fell into the ocean," Kris said. "I was just like 'oh' and walked backed to my family and said 'A bird just swooped on my ice cream' and I didn't even KNOW I had this picture. I was just laughing at the table with my family and my cousin asked if I got a picture and I checked my camera roll and there it was and I was in pure shock."   @youngweonhi had to give u this "I was so busy laughing and then people on the wharf came up to me and asked if I got what just happened and it was shocking because I did?" said Kris. "10/10 most unbelievable thing to happen to me." @girlposts Kris said her parents kept offering to buy her another ice cream but she wasn't interested. "I just took it as a sign that today was not my day for ice cream," she said. Brad Esposito is a news reporter for BuzzFeed and is based in Sydney, Australia. Contact Brad Esposito at bradley.esposito@buzzfeed.com . Got a confidential tip? Submit it here .

"People think I was hand feeding the bird but it LITERALLY swooped in and took the ice cream cone right away," said Kris. "It flew off with it in its mouth but there's no real grip on ice cream so it fell into the ocean," Kris said.

"I was just like 'oh' and walked backed to my family and said 'A bird just swooped on my ice cream' and I didn't even KNOW I had this picture. I was just laughing at the table with my family and my cousin asked if I got a picture and I checked my camera roll and there it was and I was in pure shock."