Trump May Be Softening On Mexico And NAFTA, And That's Good For The U.S.
Trump May Be Softening On Mexico And NAFTA, And That's Good For The U.S.
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ken Roberts       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President Trump has submitted a draft proposal to Congress regarding NAFTA. (Photo by Ron Sachs - Pool/Getty Images) President Trump might just be back-pedaling and only planning minor revisions to the North America Free Trade Agreement. That's good, because the data suggests Mexico -- the most frequent subject of his vitriol pre- and post-campaign -- is actually a pretty good trade partner, and getting better. While my reading of a Wall Street Journal article detailing a draft proposal the Administration sent to Congress still suggests some potential landmines, I will relish any hope of moderation on international trade. Remember, on his first day of work as president, Trump walked away from the Trans Pacific Partnership , ending seven to eight years of completed negotiations on what would have been the world's largest FTA. While I am betting his calculus in slow pedaling on NAFTA is more political than data driven, I am guardedly optimistic nonetheless. Because the data suggests that Mexico is actually a pretty good trade partner. NAFTA is, of course, what the frequently hyperbolic president not too long ago vilified as "the worst trade deal" ever signed by the United States. To his way of thinking, what made the two-decade-old FTA between Canada, the United States and Mexico so onerous was job losses to Mexico. A large Mexican flag flies over Tijuana, just across the U.S. border from San Diego. (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) Four quick data points, from my analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data: U.S. trade is more balanced with Mexico, not less: For every dollar of U.S. trade with the world, 40 cents is an export. For every dollar of U.S. trade with Mexico, 44 cents is a dollar. In fact, if you look at just the 20 nations with which the United States is entwined in an FTA, only three nations -- South Korea, Israel and Nicaragua -- are below the 40 percent average. We have a surplus with 13 of them.  Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

President Trump might just be back-pedaling and only planning minor revisions to the North America Free Trade Agreement.

That's good, because the data suggests Mexico -- the most frequent subject of his vitriol pre- and post-campaign -- is actually a pretty good trade partner, and getting better.

While my reading of a Wall Street Journal article detailing a draft proposal the Administration sent to Congress still suggests some potential landmines, I will relish any hope of moderation on international trade. Remember, on his first day of work as president, Trump walked away from the Trans Pacific Partnership, ending seven to eight years of completed negotiations on what would have been the world's largest FTA.

While I am betting his calculus in slow pedaling on NAFTA is more political than data driven, I am guardedly optimistic nonetheless.

Because the data suggests that Mexico is actually a pretty good trade partner.

NAFTA is, of course, what the frequently hyperbolic president not too long ago vilified as "the worst trade deal" ever signed by the United States. To his way of thinking, what made the two-decade-old FTA between Canada, the United States and Mexico so onerous was job losses to Mexico.

Four quick data points, from my analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data: