American Airlines pilot dies after medical episode on flight
American Airlines pilot dies after medical episode on flight
Shares                An American Airlines pilot died after becoming ill just before his plane landed in Albuquerque. During the flight from Dallas-Fort Worth, the captain declared an emergency and landed the plane at Albuquerque International Sunport on Wednesday night. The plane taxied to a gate and was met by paramedics, who were unable to save William "Mike" Grubbs, 58, a Dallas-based co-pilot. Passengers were apparently unaware of the gravity of the incident during the last minutes of the flight but said the captain told them after landing that they would not be able to exit the plane immediately because of a medical emergency. As of midday Thursday, there was no word on the cause of death. Grubbs joined American in 2010 as a pilot of Boeing 737s after flying smaller planes for American Eagle. American Airlines CEO Doug Parker expressed his sadness and gratitude to the crew of Flight 1353 in a letter to employees. The pilots' union said Grubbs lived in Lebanon, Tennessee, and said it was offering help to his family. He was married and was the father of a son, who will graduate from college in May, according to the airline. Pilot deaths during flights are rare. In most cases, the other pilot in the cockpit has been able to land the plane without further incident. In 2015, the captain of an American Airlines jet became ill and died during a late-night flight from Phoenix. The co-pilot of the Boston-bound plane made an emergency landing in Syracuse, New York. A United Airlines pilot suffered a heart attack during a flight from Houston to Seattle that made an emergency landing in Boise, Idaho . He died several hours later at a hospital. Pilots must pass regular medical exams. In 2009, the Federal Aviation Administration raised the mandatory retirement age for airline pilots from 60 to 65, and some have suggested raising it again to help deal with a shortage of pilots. Shares                  American Airlines pilot dies after medical episode on flight   Flynn in talks to testify before Congress, seeking 'assurances against unfair prosecution'   Trump revives threat to change libel laws   Two Democrats will vote to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch   2 men arrested over deadly Cameo nightclub shooting   Cosby prosecutors seek to use talk of quaaludes   87-year-olds among 13 killed in Texas church bus crash   Where the Russia investigations stand   Cops: Man, 19, raped at least 6 women, starting at age 16   Floodwaters flow through submerged car in Australia   Trump adviser Bannon won't be charged in Florida vote probe   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service   This Amazonian frog's poison is part of latest supercleanse trend   Girl gets one-eyed bunny doll named Sparkle after losing her eye to cancer   Fire survivor teaches children fire-safety tools that saved his family   Millennials, hoping to find real connections, ban the booze   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life   Bride surprises grandmother in hospital after wedding   Family of US woman injured in London attack shares hospital photo   Judge appears close to approving Trump University deal   Trump calls out individuals within the Freedom Caucus on Twitter   Trump administration drops human rights in Bahrain F-16 deal   Kansas governor vetoes expansion of state's Medicaid program   What's next for the 'bathroom bill' replacement in North Carolina   'Bathroom bill' to cost North Carolina $3.76B   Elizabeth Smart's father speaks out about missing teen   Missing teen, ex-teacher may be in Mexico: Officials   Teacher visited teen at work before alleged kidnapping, sister says   April Fools' Day: How did it start?   As war in Afghanistan drags on, Russia resurrects interest   Chuck Berry's funeral scheduled for next month   'Modern Family': A major character turns down a marriage proposal   Matt Damon on Ben Affleck after rehab   'Grey's Anatomy' star opens up about her daughter's illness

An American Airlines pilot died after becoming ill just before his plane landed in Albuquerque.

During the flight from Dallas-Fort Worth, the captain declared an emergency and landed the plane at Albuquerque International Sunport on Wednesday night.

The plane taxied to a gate and was met by paramedics, who were unable to save William "Mike" Grubbs, 58, a Dallas-based co-pilot.

Passengers were apparently unaware of the gravity of the incident during the last minutes of the flight but said the captain told them after landing that they would not be able to exit the plane immediately because of a medical emergency.

As of midday Thursday, there was no word on the cause of death.

Grubbs joined American in 2010 as a pilot of Boeing 737s after flying smaller planes for American Eagle.

American Airlines CEO Doug Parker expressed his sadness and gratitude to the crew of Flight 1353 in a letter to employees.

The pilots' union said Grubbs lived in Lebanon, Tennessee, and said it was offering help to his family. He was married and was the father of a son, who will graduate from college in May, according to the airline.

Pilot deaths during flights are rare. In most cases, the other pilot in the cockpit has been able to land the plane without further incident.

In 2015, the captain of an American Airlines jet became ill and died during a late-night flight from Phoenix. The co-pilot of the Boston-bound plane made an emergency landing in Syracuse, New York.

A United Airlines pilot suffered a heart attack during a flight from Houston to Seattle that made an emergency landing in Boise, Idaho. He died several hours later at a hospital.

Pilots must pass regular medical exams. In 2009, the Federal Aviation Administration raised the mandatory retirement age for airline pilots from 60 to 65, and some have suggested raising it again to help deal with a shortage of pilots.