Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Mura Masa & Charli XCX, Rasmus Faber & Adult.
Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Mura Masa & Charli XCX, Rasmus Faber & Adult.
Billboard Dance Chart Upstarts: Mura Masa & Charli XCX, Rasmus Faber & Adult.  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Each week, Billboard Dance looks at songs & albums rising on Billboard's dance charts. British DJ/producer Mura Masa (aka Alex Crossan) and singer Charli XCX enter Hot Dance/Electronic Songs at No. 42 with the bouncy electro-pop track "1 Night." It's the former's third chart hit and the latter's second: Charli was featured on Icona Pop's "I Love It," which topped the chart for two weeks (May 18 and 25, 2013). "1 Night" drew 605,000 U.S. streams in the week ending March 23, according to Nielsen Music. Swedish DJ/pianist Rasmus Faber forays onto Dance Club Songs for the first time with "We Laugh We Dance We Cry," featuring Linus Norda (No. 49). Although the track made the top 10 of 's Japan Hot 100 chart four years ago (No. 7, Jan. 5, 2013), it was released for the first time (by indie label Radikal) in the U.S. on Feb. 17. "We Laugh" arrives stateside with new remixes from Bimbo Jones, Jason Nevins and Funky Junction, among others. Detroit-based electronic duo Adult. (the husband-and-wife team of Adam Lee Miller and Nicola Kuperus) earns its first chart action as enters Dance/Electronic Album Sales at No. 24. The avant-garde house music album features vocalists ("guests") on all 12 of its tracks, including Shannon Funchess on "We Chase the Sound" and "Stop (And Start Again)." The act embarks on a two-month U.S. tour April 21 in Nashville.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Each week, Billboard Dance looks at songs & albums rising on Billboard's dance charts.

Mura Masa & Charli XCX, "1 Night"

British DJ/producer Mura Masa (aka Alex Crossan) and singer Charli XCX enter Hot Dance/Electronic Songs at No. 42 with the bouncy electro-pop track "1 Night." It's the former's third chart hit and the latter's second: Charli was featured on Icona Pop's "I Love It," which topped the chart for two weeks (May 18 and 25, 2013). "1 Night" drew 605,000 U.S. streams in the week ending March 23, according to Nielsen Music.

Rasmus Faber featuring Linus Norda, "We Laugh We Dance We Cry"

Swedish DJ/pianist Rasmus Faber forays onto Dance Club Songs for the first time with "We Laugh We Dance We Cry," featuring Linus Norda (No. 49). Although the track made the top 10 of Billboard's Japan Hot 100 chart four years ago (No. 7, Jan. 5, 2013), it was released for the first time (by indie label Radikal) in the U.S. on Feb. 17. "We Laugh" arrives stateside with new remixes from Bimbo Jones, Jason Nevins and Funky Junction, among others.

Adult., Detroit House Guests

Detroit-based electronic duo Adult. (the husband-and-wife team of Adam Lee Miller and Nicola Kuperus) earns its first Billboard chart action as Detroit House Guests enters Dance/Electronic Album Sales at No. 24. The avant-garde house music album features vocalists ("guests") on all 12 of its tracks, including Shannon Funchess on "We Chase the Sound" and "Stop (And Start Again)." The act embarks on a two-month U.S. tour April 21 in Nashville.