LeBron James Appears to Take a Jab at Lonzo Ball Before Game Against Bulls
LeBron James Appears to Take a Jab at Lonzo Ball Before Game Against Bulls
Early last week, LeBron James was involved in a brief war of words with LaVar Ball over some comments that LaVar made about LeBron’s sons. LaVar told Fox Sports 1’s Chris Broussard that he feels like his sons are better set up for long-term success than LeBron’s sons, and LeBron didn’t appreciate him mentioning his kids . "Keep my kids’ names out of your mouth," LeBron said in response. "Keep my family out of your mouth. This is dad to dad. It’s a problem now…He can talk all about his brand, talk about his sons, talk about basketball, talk about me. But keep my family out of this." LaVar responded by, well, talking about LeBron’s kids again . During an interview on SiriusXM’s , he accused LeBron of being too "touchy" and reiterated that he doesn’t think either of LeBron’s kids are going to have the same type of success that LeBron has had in the NBA. LeBron refused to get into a back-and-forth with LaVar, but on Thursday night, he seemed to throw a little bit of shade in the direction of LaVar’s son Lonzo , who just finished up his freshman season with UCLA and is headed to the NBA this summer. While warming up for a game against the Bulls, LeBron appeared to do an impersonation of Lonzo’s unconventional shot before smirking as if to say, "You guys just saw that, right?" You can watch here: LeBron with a not-so-subtle jab at Lonzo Ball pic.twitter.com/4EuAxoCzbj And if you’re unfamiliar with the way Lonzo shoots, you can check out his shot here: Plenty of people saw LeBron’s warmup shot and responded accordingly on social media: Why was LeBron mocking Lonzo like that? Lebron is petty for mocking Lonzo's Shot 😂 Lmao lebron is a savage he imitated Lonzo Ball's jumpshot in warm ups 😂😂😂😂😂 LeBron shot like Lonzo Ball????? Oooooooh petty After watching Lebron imitate Lonzo's shot, I've officially jumped on the Lebron bandwagon and I'm not ashamed. Skip Bayless even found a way to criticize LeBron for it: Isn't it beneath LeBron's "best in the world" dignity to take a literal shot at Lonzo Ball by mocking his shooting stroke? He's just a kid. The Cavaliers ended up losing to the Bulls 99-93, so LeBron didn’t speak about the shade after the game. But if he was, in fact, poking fun at Lonzo’s shooting form, he proved once again that petty LeBron is the best LeBron .

Early last week, LeBron James was involved in a brief war of words with LaVar Ball over some comments that LaVar made about LeBron’s sons. LaVar told Fox Sports 1’s Chris Broussard that he feels like his sons are better set up for long-term success than LeBron’s sons, and LeBron didn’t appreciate him mentioning his kids.

"Keep my kids’ names out of your mouth," LeBron said in response. "Keep my family out of your mouth. This is dad to dad. It’s a problem now…He can talk all about his brand, talk about his sons, talk about basketball, talk about me. But keep my family out of this."

LaVar responded by, well, talking about LeBron’s kids again. During an interview on SiriusXM’s Full Ride, he accused LeBron of being too "touchy" and reiterated that he doesn’t think either of LeBron’s kids are going to have the same type of success that LeBron has had in the NBA.

LeBron refused to get into a back-and-forth with LaVar, but on Thursday night, he seemed to throw a little bit of shade in the direction of LaVar’s son Lonzo, who just finished up his freshman season with UCLA and is headed to the NBA this summer. While warming up for a game against the Bulls, LeBron appeared to do an impersonation of Lonzo’s unconventional shot before smirking as if to say, "You guys just saw that, right?"

You can watch here:

LeBron with a not-so-subtle jab at Lonzo Ball pic.twitter.com/4EuAxoCzbj — Kenny Ducey (@KennyDucey) March 30, 2017

And if you’re unfamiliar with the way Lonzo shoots, you can check out his shot here:

Plenty of people saw LeBron’s warmup shot and responded accordingly on social media:

Why was LeBron mocking Lonzo like that? — Brad and Boujee (@JORDY_McBUCKETS) March 31, 2017 Lebron is petty for mocking Lonzo's Shot 😂 — Chris 💥 (@spoonthaman34) March 31, 2017 Lmao lebron is a savage he imitated Lonzo Ball's jumpshot in warm ups 😂😂😂😂😂 — Jake Whiting (@Jakewhiting18) March 31, 2017 LeBron shot like Lonzo Ball????? Oooooooh petty — Don Jefé Cartegena (@MrGee54) March 31, 2017 After watching Lebron imitate Lonzo's shot, I've officially jumped on the Lebron bandwagon and I'm not ashamed. — Michie (@Sokolosky_11) March 31, 2017

Skip Bayless even found a way to criticize LeBron for it:

Isn't it beneath LeBron's "best in the world" dignity to take a literal shot at Lonzo Ball by mocking his shooting stroke? He's just a kid. — Skip Bayless (@RealSkipBayless) March 31, 2017

The Cavaliers ended up losing to the Bulls 99-93, so LeBron didn’t speak about the shade after the game. But if he was, in fact, poking fun at Lonzo’s shooting form, he proved once again that petty LeBron is the best LeBron.