Dutch prosecutors seize gold bars and cars in 'tax evader' raids
Dutch prosecutors seize gold bars and cars in 'tax evader' raids - BBC News


Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Financial prosecutors seized items including jewellery, paintings and gold bars from properties they raided in the Netherlands

Dutch prosecutors say they have launched co-ordinated raids in several countries against suspected money-launderers and tax evaders.

They are investigating about 3,800 Dutch-linked accounts in an unnamed Swiss bank following a tip-off they could contain undeclared assets.

Paintings, a gold bar, cash, a luxury car and jewellery have been seized.

As well as the Netherlands, there have been searches in France, Germany, the UK and Australia.

The Dutch government has passed information to the other countries about more than 50,000 suspect accounts at the bank.

Meanwhile, UK authorities said the investigation was also targeting senior bank employees.

The co-ordinated raids began on Thursday, the Dutch office for financial crimes prosecution (FIOD) said in a statement. It said the cross-border operation was being supported by Eurojust, the EU's judicial co-operation unit.

Swiss 'disconcerted'

But the Swiss attorney general expressed annoyance that it had not been informed in advance about the operation.

"The Office of the Attorney General of Switzerland is disconcerted about the manner in which this has been organised with the conscious non-inclusion of Switzerland," it said in an emailed statement to Reuters news agency.

"The attorney general expects a written explanation from the relevant leading Dutch authorities and is examining further actions," the OAG said.

The Netherlands raids targeted homes in four locations - The Hague, Hoofddorp, Zwolle and the municipality of Venlo. Two people were detained for interrogation.

In Australia, authorities said investigators were looking for 340 people suspected of aiding tax evaders, Dutch news broadcaster NOS reported.

The UK tax inspection body, HMRC, confirmed that it had launched "a criminal investigation into suspected tax evasion and money-laundering by a global financial institution and certain of its employees".

"The first phase of the investigation, which will see further, targeted, activity over the coming weeks, is focused on senior employees from within the institution, along with a number of its customers," HMRC said.

"The international reach of this investigation sends a clear message that there is no hiding place for those seeking to evade tax."

The investigation will continue for weeks to come, Dutch financial prosecutors said.