The Definitive Ranking Of The Best '90s Comedies
The Definitive Ranking Of The Best '90s Comedies
A stoner movie written by Dave Chapelle? God bless the '90s. "Marijuana is not a drug. I used to suck dick for coke. Now that's an addiction. You ever suck some dick for marijuana?"                                   Nothing better than a neurotic Bill Murray. "So, what you're saying is that even though you are an almost-paralyzed, multiphobic personality who is in a constant state of panic, your wife did not leave you, you left her because she ... liked Neil Diamond?"                                   It's an underdog story for the ages. "Bobby, they ever catch that gorilla that busted outta the zoo and punched you in the eye?" "No Mama, the search continues."                                   Joe Pesci is comically perfect in this film, but Marisa Tomei stole the show. [During opening statements] "Uh ... everything that guy just said is bullshit. Thank you."                                   Chris Farley and David Spade are cinema's greatest odd couple. "I can get a good look at a T-bone by sticking my head up a bull's ass, but I'd rather take a butcher's word for it."                                   Honestly, did you care about Groundhog Day before this movie? "Do you ever have déjà vu, Mrs. Lancaster?" "I don't think so, but I could check with the kitchen."                                   It kicked off the trilogy! "Weed is from the earth. God put this here for me and you. Take advantage man, take advantage."                                   Fantasy subplots ruled the '90s. "My teacher tells me beauty is on the inside." "That's just something ugly people say."                                   Bob Barker's cameo is the cameo to end all cameos. "You're in big trouble though, pal. I eat pieces of shit like you for breakfast!" "You eat pieces of shit for breakfast?"                                   This is peak Carrey. "If I'm not back in five minutes... just wait longer."                                   Finally, a victory for the lazy man. "If peeing your pants is cool, consider me Miles Davis."                                   It was the highest grossing crossover film of all time. Shyeah! "Garth, marriage is punishment for shoplifting in some countries."                                   You have to admit the rug really tied the room together. "Nihilists! Fuck me. I mean, say what you want about the tenets of National Socialism, Dude, at least it's an ethos."                                   Inept parenting is never not funny. "He has a five year plan." "What is it? Don't die?"                                   The photocopier execution scene. "No one in this country can ever pronounce my name right. It's not that hard: Na-ghee-na-na-jar. Nagheenanajar." "Yeah, well, at least your name isn't Michael Bolton."                                   We didn't know we need a James Bond parody until Mike Myers showed us. "Allow myself to introduce ... myself. My name is Richie Cunningham, and this is my wife Oprah."                                   It's either the smartest dumb comedy or the dumbest smart comedy to ever exist. "We got no food, we got no jobs... our PETS' HEADS ARE FALLING OFF!"                                   This movie secured Robin Williams as an absolute legend of comedy. "Look at this! My first day as a woman and I'm getting hot flashes."

Buena Vista Pictures

Why it's timeless: It's an underdog story for the ages.

Memorable line: "Bobby, they ever catch that gorilla that busted outta the zoo and punched you in the eye?"

"No Mama, the search continues."