Its Official! 45 New Cities Will Have Flight Connectivity By September
Its Official! 45 New Cities Will Have Flight Connectivity By September
Its Official! 45 New Cities Will Have Flight Connectivity By September As many as 128 unconnected-by-air city pairs are set to get flights between April and September under the first phase of the Centre's affordable regional connectivity scheme. Five carriers — SpiceJet, Air India's subsidiary Alliance Air, Air Deccan, Air Odisha and Turbo Megha — will operate on these routes, putting 31 unserved airports on the national flight map apart from utilising 12 under-served airports. Under the scheme, Air India has got 15 routes, Spice Jet has got 11, Turbo 18, Air Deccan 34 and Air Odisha has got 50 routes. Half of the seats on 19 to 78-seater small planes (turboprops) operating on these routes will have a fare cap of Rs 2,500 per hour. Operators will get viability gap funding (VGF) from a fee levy on flights operated out of big cities, which will mean an increase in fares of about Rs 50 for passengers on those routes. #UDAN network will cover the whole country, giving a major economic boost to hinterland areas. New routes announced today #TransformingIndia  pic.twitter.com/oOUHHrJWo7 The first round of 128 RCS flights will require Rs 205 crore as VGF and for the 6.5 lakh seats, which will be added to regional aviation. "This is the most efficient use of resources as a VGF of Rs 205 crore is adding 2% capacity to the Indian market," said Union minister of state for aviation Jayant Sinha. First round of UDAN completed. Next UDAN round in 3 months. We expect many more airports to get connected in the next round n/n. "In the century of civil aviation in India, only 76 airports were connected with scheduled commercial flights. Now in one year, 33 airports which did not get flights will be on the air map. We are going to revive 50 airports in next two years in small towns.

As many as 128 unconnected-by-air city pairs are set to get flights between April and September under the first phase of the Centre's affordable regional connectivity scheme.

bccl/representational image

Five carriers — SpiceJet, Air India's subsidiary Alliance Air, Air Deccan, Air Odisha and Turbo Megha — will operate on these routes, putting 31 unserved airports on the national flight map apart from utilising 12 under-served airports.

bccl/representational image

Under the scheme, Air India has got 15 routes, Spice Jet has got 11, Turbo 18, Air Deccan 34 and Air Odisha has got 50 routes.

Half of the seats on 19 to 78-seater small planes (turboprops) operating on these routes will have a fare cap of Rs 2,500 per hour. Operators will get viability gap funding (VGF) from a fee levy on flights operated out of big cities, which will mean an increase in fares of about Rs 50 for passengers on those routes.

#UDAN network will cover the whole country, giving a major economic boost to hinterland areas. New routes announced today #TransformingIndia pic.twitter.com/oOUHHrJWo7 — Ashok Gajapathi Raju (@Ashok_Gajapathi) March 30, 2017

The first round of 128 RCS flights will require Rs 205 crore as VGF and for the 6.5 lakh seats, which will be added to regional aviation. "This is the most efficient use of resources as a VGF of Rs 205 crore is adding 2% capacity to the Indian market," said Union minister of state for aviation Jayant Sinha.

First round of UDAN completed. Next UDAN round in 3 months. We expect many more airports to get connected in the next round n/n. — Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) March 30, 2017

bccl/representational image

"In the century of civil aviation in India, only 76 airports were connected with scheduled commercial flights. Now in one year, 33 airports which did not get flights will be on the air map. We are going to revive 50 airports in next two years in small towns.

Don't Miss 29 K SHARES 28.3 K SHARES 31.5 K SHARES 25.1 K SHARES 24.4 K SHARES

The second round of bidding for flights under RCS will happen much before the earlier envisaged gap of six months," aviation secretary R N Choubey said.

Inputs From TNN