Spain's Rajoy Begins First Big Test of New Term With 2017 Budget
Spain's Rajoy Begins First Big Test of New Term With 2017 Budget
Mariano Rajoy. Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy may be about to discover how much power his parliamentary minority can wield as he seeks approval for this year’s budget. With three months of the year already gone, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro will present his 2017 tax and spending plans to the rest of the government at a meeting in Madrid Friday and will be presented to lawmakers on April 4. Spain met its deficit target last year for the first time since it was placed under watch by European authorities in 2009, Montoro said Thursday, reporting a 4.5 percent shortfall compared to a target of 4.6 percent. Rajoy has 137 deputies in the 350-seat lower chamber and has support from another 32 representatives of the centrist party Ciudadanos. A handful of regional groups take him to 175. The sole representative of the New Canaries party is still to decide whether he’ll give the prime minister a majority. The prime minister is trying to show that it’s business-as-usual in Spain after he lost his majority in 2015 and the country spent most of last year without a government. With the rest of Europe overshadowed by elections in France and Germany, the start of Brexit negotiations and the risk of protectionist measures from the new U.S. administration, approving a budget would be a sign of political stability. Defeat would have a little impact on Rajoy’s efforts to narrow the budget deficit since he already introduced a series of last-minute fixes after taking power again late last year. But it would deal a blow to Rajoy’s authority. ‘Last Resort’ “In a context of global uncertainty and a heavily political calendar in Europe, keeping Spain out of the radar is an advantage, Rajoy doesn’t want to risk that,” said Angel Talavera, an economist at Oxford Economics in London. “If he really isn’t able to govern, he can always call a snap election. But that would be a last resort.” The budget vote will also offer a clue as to how Rajoy will approach the next four years when he’ll need to cut cross-party deals to pass legislation as economic tailwinds such as low energy prices and ultra-loose monetary policy begin to fade. One other vote that will shape the political environment in Spain is the leadership contest of the opposition Socialist party in May. Rajoy’s People’s Party only managed to take power in October after the Socialist leader Pedro Sanchez was ousted by a party coup. Now Sanchez is campaigning to get his job back, rallying the rank-and-file supporters against the party elders who pushed him out to let Rajoy govern. If Sanchez returns, he’s likely to bring with him the gridlock that characterized much of 2016. “Even if Rajoy passes the budget, the question of just how stable Spain is could come back if Sanchez wins,” said Lluis Orriols, a political scientist at Madrid’s Carlos III University. “Having him as head of the Socialist party means losing a possible partner.”

Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy may be about to discover how much power his parliamentary minority can wield as he seeks approval for this year’s budget.

With three months of the year already gone, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro will present his 2017 tax and spending plans to the rest of the government at a meeting in Madrid Friday and will be presented to lawmakers on April 4. Spain met its deficit target last year for the first time since it was placed under watch by European authorities in 2009, Montoro said Thursday, reporting a 4.5 percent shortfall compared to a target of 4.6 percent.

Rajoy has 137 deputies in the 350-seat lower chamber and has support from another 32 representatives of the centrist party Ciudadanos. A handful of regional groups take him to 175. The sole representative of the New Canaries party is still to decide whether he’ll give the prime minister a majority.

Keep up with the best of Bloomberg Politics. Get our newsletter daily.

The prime minister is trying to show that it’s business-as-usual in Spain after he lost his majority in 2015 and the country spent most of last year without a government. With the rest of Europe overshadowed by elections in France and Germany, the start of Brexit negotiations and the risk of protectionist measures from the new U.S. administration, approving a budget would be a sign of political stability.

Defeat would have a little impact on Rajoy’s efforts to narrow the budget deficit since he already introduced a series of last-minute fixes after taking power again late last year. But it would deal a blow to Rajoy’s authority.

‘Last Resort’

“In a context of global uncertainty and a heavily political calendar in Europe, keeping Spain out of the radar is an advantage, Rajoy doesn’t want to risk that,” said Angel Talavera, an economist at Oxford Economics in London. “If he really isn’t able to govern, he can always call a snap election. But that would be a last resort.”

The budget vote will also offer a clue as to how Rajoy will approach the next four years when he’ll need to cut cross-party deals to pass legislation as economic tailwinds such as low energy prices and ultra-loose monetary policy begin to fade.

One other vote that will shape the political environment in Spain is the leadership contest of the opposition Socialist party in May. Rajoy’s People’s Party only managed to take power in October after the Socialist leader Pedro Sanchez was ousted by a party coup.

Now Sanchez is campaigning to get his job back, rallying the rank-and-file supporters against the party elders who pushed him out to let Rajoy govern. If Sanchez returns, he’s likely to bring with him the gridlock that characterized much of 2016.

“Even if Rajoy passes the budget, the question of just how stable Spain is could come back if Sanchez wins,” said Lluis Orriols, a political scientist at Madrid’s Carlos III University. “Having him as head of the Socialist party means losing a possible partner.”