2 Democrats will vote to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch
2 Democrats will vote to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch
Shares               Two Democratic Senators announced they will vote to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch , the first Democrats who have declared support for his nomination. Sens. Joe Manchin from West Virginia and Heidi Heitkamp from North Dakota both released statements today announcing their intentions to vote to approve Gorsuch. Few Democrats are expected to support his nomination and some have promised to filibuster when the vote reaches the floor .     Both Senators have met with Gorsuch and cited his judicial record and praise from colleagues as some of the reasons for their support. Manchin called him an "honest and thoughtful man" in a statement, saying "I hold no illusions that I will agree with every decision Judge Gorsuch may issue in the future, but I have not found any reasons why this jurist should not be a Supreme Court Justice." Heitkamp cited Gorsuch's experience with tribal law and public lands issues, as well as endorsements from Native American organizations. "He has a record as a balanced, meticulous, and well respected jurist who understands the rule of law," she said in the statement. Heitkamp's statement also said her support of Gorsuch doesn't dimish how disturbed she was that Republicans blocked President Barack Obama's nominee, Merrick Garland . "I was taught that two wrongs don’t make a right. There isn’t a perfect judge," Heitkamp said in the statement. "Regardless of which party is in the White House, the U.S. Supreme Court should be above politics." Shares                  2 Democrats will vote to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch  As Gorsuch Heads to the Hill, Democrats Divided on a Plan  Gorsuch to Democrats: No return to 'horse and buggy' era   Kremlin spokesman: Russia-US relations 'maybe even worse' than Cold War   Trump expected to sign executive orders on trade Friday   Trump, Flynn once criticized Clinton aides for seeking immunity   Flynn in talks to testify before Congress, seeking 'assurances against unfair prosecution'   Trump's campaign tactics, trolls strengthened Russia's election meddling, expert says   White House official says Trump will hold Congress 'accountable' on health care   Should Democrats make a deal with the president on health care?   Intel committee leaders invited to review National Security Council documents   US military now authorized to conduct offensive airstrikes in Somalia   Trump calls out individuals within the Freedom Caucus on Twitter   What's next for the 'bathroom bill' replacement in North Carolina   Trump revives threat to change libel laws   Trump to sign executive orders targeting trade abuses   7-year-old basketball star gets a special surprise from Harlem Globetrotters   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   Teacher raises $80K for bikes for elementary school's entire student body   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service   This Amazonian frog's poison is part of latest supercleanse trend   Girl gets one-eyed bunny doll named Sparkle after losing her eye to cancer   Fire survivor teaches children fire-safety tools that saved his family   Millennials, hoping to find real connections, ban the booze   Police officer dines with little girl in adorable video   Giant alligator interrupts South Carolina golf tournament   Teen brings little girl's mermaid dream to life

Two Democratic Senators announced they will vote to confirm Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch, the first Democrats who have declared support for his nomination.

Sens. Joe Manchin from West Virginia and Heidi Heitkamp from North Dakota both released statements today announcing their intentions to vote to approve Gorsuch.

Few Democrats are expected to support his nomination and some have promised to filibuster when the vote reaches the floor.

Both Senators have met with Gorsuch and cited his judicial record and praise from colleagues as some of the reasons for their support.

Manchin called him an "honest and thoughtful man" in a statement, saying "I hold no illusions that I will agree with every decision Judge Gorsuch may issue in the future, but I have not found any reasons why this jurist should not be a Supreme Court Justice."

Heitkamp cited Gorsuch's experience with tribal law and public lands issues, as well as endorsements from Native American organizations.

"He has a record as a balanced, meticulous, and well respected jurist who understands the rule of law," she said in the statement.

Heitkamp's statement also said her support of Gorsuch doesn't dimish how disturbed she was that Republicans blocked President Barack Obama's nominee, Merrick Garland.

"I was taught that two wrongs don’t make a right. There isn’t a perfect judge," Heitkamp said in the statement. "Regardless of which party is in the White House, the U.S. Supreme Court should be above politics."