Virat Kohli Blows Away West Indies But India Still Miss Out On World T20 Final Berth
Rewind To 2016 - Kohli Blows Away West Indies But India Still Miss Out On World T20 Final Berth
Rewind To 2016 - Virat Kohli Blows Away West Indies But India Still Miss Out On World T20 Final Berth One man does not make a team and on March 31, 2016. India and West Indies faced off in the World T20 semifinal. Kohli scored runs and even took a wicket, but it was the Men in Blue who were denied a place in the title clash. and he continued where he left off against Australia in the previous game. Runs flowed freely from his bat and he slammed 89 not out in 47 balls. His innings contained 11 fours and a six as India amassed 192/2. He was not done yet. Kohli came on to bowl and removed Johnson Charles for 52 who was looking dangerous. But alas! It did not change the course of the match as West Indies won with 7 wickets and 2 balls to spare. India were out and West Indies would go on to win the title by beating England. But Virat Kohli was once again the shining light in a lost cause. However, cricket is a team game and there was only so much our best player could do by himself.

One man does not make a team and Virat Kohli learnt it the hard way on March 31, 2016.

India and West Indies faced off in the World T20 semifinal. Kohli scored runs and even took a wicket, but it was the Men in Blue who were denied a place in the title clash.

AFP

Kohli was in superb form in the tournament and he continued where he left off against Australia in the previous game.

Runs flowed freely from his bat and he slammed 89 not out in 47 balls. His innings contained 11 fours and a six as India amassed 192/2.

He was not done yet. Kohli came on to bowl and removed Johnson Charles for 52 who was looking dangerous. But alas! It did not change the course of the match as West Indies won with 7 wickets and 2 balls to spare.

India were out and West Indies would go on to win the title by beating England. But Virat Kohli was once again the shining light in a lost cause. However, cricket is a team game and there was only so much our best player could do by himself.