Women With These 20 Job Titles Are The Happiest At Work
Women With These 20 Job Titles Are The Happiest At Work
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Georgene Huang       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock These days it can be hard not to feel a bit of envy when it comes to other people's jobs. With the proliferation of career advice and professional profiles of happy, successful role models, you may find yourself enviously looking at what colleagues or friends do for a living and wondering if the grass is indeed greener on the other side. You may even become convinced that if you only had another job, you would be so much happier. But is that really the case? At Fairygodboss, we are obsessed with understanding how women feel about their work and jobs. We have been collecting job satisfaction information from every member of our community for over a year, and just a few days ago, we analyzed that data for patterns across job titles. What we found were that certain job titles correlated to higher levels of job satisfaction at work. : 3. Sales Representative 3. Principal 3. Senior Marketing Manager 4. Intern 5. HR Manager 5. Recruiter (tie 6. Managing Director 7. AVP 7. Program Coordinator 8. Senior Analyst 9. Specialist 10. Finance Manager 11. 12. Associate Attorney 12. 12. Project Coordinator (tie) 15. Senior Associate 16. This list was based on the self-reported job satisfaction levels by thousands of women who reviewed their jobs and employers on Fairygodboss (on a scale of 1-5 where 5 represents the highest level of job satisfaction). Since there are hundreds of thousands of different job titles out there, these top 20 job titles really stood out. A note on methodology: To qualify for potential inclusion on the list, at least 30 women had to report identical job titles (meaning unique job titles such as “Chief Happiness Manager” didn't have a shot of making the list). Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

These days it can be hard not to feel a bit of envy when it comes to other people's jobs. With the proliferation of career advice and professional profiles of happy, successful role models, you may find yourself enviously looking at what colleagues or friends do for a living and wondering if the grass is indeed greener on the other side. You may even become convinced that if you only had another job, you would be so much happier. But is that really the case?

At Fairygodboss, we are obsessed with understanding how women feel about their work and jobs. We have been collecting job satisfaction information from every member of our community for over a year, and just a few days ago, we analyzed that data for patterns across job titles. What we found were that certain job titles correlated to higher levels of job satisfaction at work.

Here are the top 20 job titles when it comes to women’s happiness :

1. Senior Program Manager

2. Senior Product Manager

3. Sales Representative

3. Principal

3. Senior Marketing Manager

4. Intern

5. HR Manager

5. Recruiter (tie

6. Managing Director

7. AVP

7. Program Coordinator

8. Senior Analyst

9. Specialist

10. Finance Manager

11. Operations Manager

12. Associate Attorney

12. Administrator

12. Project Coordinator (tie)

13. Editor

14. Executive Director

15. Producer

15. Senior Associate

16. Senior Manager

17. Assistant Director

18. Vice President

19. Attorney

20. Business Manager

This list was based on the self-reported job satisfaction levels by thousands of women who reviewed their jobs and employers on Fairygodboss (on a scale of 1-5 where 5 represents the highest level of job satisfaction). Since there are hundreds of thousands of different job titles out there, these top 20 job titles really stood out. A note on methodology: To qualify for potential inclusion on the list, at least 30 women had to report identical job titles (meaning unique job titles such as “Chief Happiness Manager” didn't have a shot of making the list).

One of the most striking things about this list is that greater seniority didn't necessarily mean being happier at work. For example, contrast the ranking of interns (currently ranked no. 4), who reported relatively high job satisfaction levels compared to the number of Managing Directors (no. 6) or Vice Presidents (ranking no. 18). One reason the data may look this way is that things can get more complicated at work as you become more senior. You can get a sense of the kinds of on-the-job issues women with various job titles face by exploring women's job reviews by job title. Things don’t simply get better over time, even if you get paid more or get a more prestigious title. This could be due to many factors such as higher expectations, workload, the stress of additional responsibility, greater exposure to office politics or simply a more experienced perspective. Moreover, for women in particular, the road to the top can feel quite isolated, as very few women occupy the highest levels of company management.

Encouragingly, it’s also clear that job satisfaction isn’t the exclusive domain of one type of job title. It seems that women working in a range of roles spanning HR, law, journalism, marketing and finance all seem to be happy in their work. While there are many factors that go into female job satisfaction, it’s reassuring to see that traditionally male-dominated job titles such as Attorney or Finance Manager are not only held by women, but by women who are happy in their jobs.

Georgene Huang is CEO of Fairygodboss, a marketplace where professional women looking for jobs, career advice and the inside scoop on companies meet employers who care about gender equality.