Chaffetz on Flynn's 'Story to Tell': Congress Should Not Give Immunity Amid FBI Probe

Chaffetz on Flynn's 'Story to Tell': Congress Should Not Give Immunity Amid FBI Probe // // // // Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) said this morning that Congress should not grant immunity from prosecution to Gen. Michael Flynn amid the ongoing FBI investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. Flynn's attorney said Thursday that the retired general, President Donald Trump's former national security adviser, is in discussions with the House and Senate intelligence committees to testify on alleged ties between Russia and Trump campaign associates. Attorney Robert Kelner said Flynn "certainly has a story to tell, and he very much wants to tell it," but is seeking assurances that he won't face "unfair prosecution." Speaking with Bill Hemmer, Chaffetz said he does not believe there is a "witch hunt" going on, referring to the language used this morning by Trump on Twitter. Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media & Dems, of historic proportion! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 31, 2017 "It's mysterious to me why all of a sudden General Flynn is out there saying he wants immunity. I don't think Congress should give him immunity if there's an open investigation by the FBI," said Chaffetz. The House Oversight Committee chairman said Trump should not be weighing in on the matter right now, likening it to President Obama commenting on the IRS scandal before all the facts were known. "We're just trying to get to the facts ... wherever that may take us," he said. Watch the full interview from "America's Newsroom" above.

Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) said this morning that Congress should not grant immunity from prosecution to Gen. Michael Flynn amid the ongoing FBI investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.

Flynn's attorney said Thursday that the retired general, President Donald Trump's former national security adviser, is in discussions with the House and Senate intelligence committees to testify on alleged ties between Russia and Trump campaign associates.

Attorney Robert Kelner said Flynn "certainly has a story to tell, and he very much wants to tell it," but is seeking assurances that he won't face "unfair prosecution."

Speaking with Bill Hemmer, Chaffetz said he does not believe there is a "witch hunt" going on, referring to the language used this morning by Trump on Twitter.

Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media & Dems, of historic proportion! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 31, 2017

"It's mysterious to me why all of a sudden General Flynn is out there saying he wants immunity. I don't think Congress should give him immunity if there's an open investigation by the FBI," said Chaffetz.

The House Oversight Committee chairman said Trump should not be weighing in on the matter right now, likening it to President Obama commenting on the IRS scandal before all the facts were known.

"We're just trying to get to the facts ... wherever that may take us," he said.

Watch the full interview from "America's Newsroom" above.

O'Reilly: If Sanctuary Cities Defy Trump Admin, They Will 'Pay a Price'

WATCH: Pundits Can't Correctly Pronounce Devin Nunes' Name

Ingraham: Trump Attacking Freedom Caucus Is 'Really Unhelpful' to His Agenda