Just try not to obsess over this giant, fluffy cat
Just try not to obsess over this giant, fluffy cat
Some cats are just born to be stars. Something in their eyes, or their paws, or their squishy faces just screams: P'Bone is one of those cats. In fact, it might be cat. Just... just look at it and you'll probably agree.Â SEE ALSO: Cat dad uses piano to induce feline bliss It's got that cat double chin that says "I am one of you, but cuter." A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on And when you get humans for scale you realize that P'Bone is . Everybody loves a substantial cat. A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on This close up is just... really good. A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on Not gonna say it looks cuter when grumpy but.... the pics speak for themselves. https://www.facebook.com/BoneBone29 A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on At the end of the day, not only is it a very good cat but it's also in Thailand, so it's got effectively everything you'd want in an Instagram. A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on WATCH: The darkest substance on Earth basically looks like a portal to another world

Some cats are just born to be stars. Something in their eyes, or their paws, or their squishy faces just screams: You want to send pictures of me to your friends.

P'Bone is one of those cats. In fact, it might be the cat. Just... just look at it and you'll probably agree.Â

SEE ALSO: Cat dad uses piano to induce feline bliss

It's got that cat double chin that says "I am one of you, but cuter."

A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on Mar 31, 2017 at 12:42am PDT

And when you get humans for scale you realize that P'Bone is massive. Everybody loves a substantial cat.

A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on Jul 6, 2016 at 6:23am PDT

This close up is just... really good.

A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on Jul 6, 2016 at 6:18am PDT

Not gonna say it looks cuter when grumpy but.... the pics speak for themselves.

https://www.facebook.com/BoneBone29 A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on Aug 1, 2016 at 4:30pm PDT

At the end of the day, not only is it a very good cat but it's also in Thailand, so it's got effectively everything you'd want in an Instagram.

A post shared by P'BONE (@bonebone29) on Feb 6, 2017 at 1:39am PST