Ok It's Official! Science Backs The Saying 'Once A Cheater, Always A Cheater'
Ok It's Official! Science Backs The Saying 'Once A Cheater, Always A Cheater'
Ok It's Official! Science Backs The Saying 'Once A Cheater, Always A Cheater' This absolute favourite thing in the world apart from murders or robbery is as evil as any other violation. We all remember happy faces, exhilaration, and sheer elation when two folks mutually get into a relationship, but half of them get thrown in predicament, simply because of infinitely. Why do you ask? Because some people just love to cheat and it can happen for multiple reasons - they found a better match, they just weren't loyal, the opportunity of something different, emotional incompatibility, intimacy, etc. But sadly, despite cheating, most cheaters feel belaboured when caught. But let's keep the mental rationale aside and see what science has to say about it. We’ve all heard the same, tired cliche about infidelity: and now science is backing it. A recent study proves that cheating is not a one-time thing, and that person will probably cheat on you again. The venerable saying is backed in this journal titled " The brain adapts to dishonesty ". The study focused on the part of the brain called amygdala, which is the supplier of negative responses. It's a region that's associated with emotions and plays "a key role in signalling, processing and assessing arousal." It further responds to an individual when they lie. Each time a person is caught cheating, the response to their wrongdoing is reduced. "We speculate that the blunted response to repeated acts of dishonesty may reflect a reduction in the emotional response to these decisions or to their affective assessment and saliency," the paper reads. It further stated that the brain rationalises with the cheating ways, and feels less guilty, responsible when caught. How convenient, right? "When participants were dishonest for the benefit of someone else, dishonesty at a constant rate was observed," the study says.

Cheating sucks!

GETTY IMAGES

This absolute favourite thing in the world apart from murders or robbery is as evil as any other violation. We all remember happy faces, exhilaration, and sheer elation when two folks mutually get into a relationship, but half of them get thrown in predicament, simply because of infinitely.

Why do you ask?

Because some people just love to cheat and it can happen for multiple reasons - they found a better match, they just weren't loyal, the opportunity of something different, emotional incompatibility, intimacy, etc.

But sadly, despite cheating, most cheaters feel belaboured when caught.

But let's keep the mental rationale aside and see what science has to say about it. We’ve all heard the same, tired cliche about infidelity: “Once a cheater, always a cheater.” and now science is backing it.

Pinterest/245235142178875365

A recent study proves that cheating is not a one-time thing, and that person will probably cheat on you again.

The venerable saying is backed in this journal titled "The brain adapts to dishonesty".

The study focused on the part of the brain called amygdala, which is the supplier of negative responses. It's a region that's associated with emotions and plays "a key role in signalling, processing and assessing arousal." It further responds to an individual when they lie.

Each time a person is caught cheating, the response to their wrongdoing is reduced.

refinery29

"We speculate that the blunted response to repeated acts of dishonesty may reflect a reduction in the emotional response to these decisions or to their affective assessment and saliency," the paper reads.

It further stated that the brain rationalises with the cheating ways, and feels less guilty, responsible when caught. How convenient, right?

"When participants were dishonest for the benefit of someone else, dishonesty at a constant rate was observed," the study says.

Don't Miss 23.5 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 5.4 K SHARES

When a person engages in dishonesty purely for the benefit of another it may be perceived as morally acceptable.

In all this, the person on the receiving end should always be open-minded -- open to options, positivity, optimism. Gliding in a pool of despair will drag them further into it, making it harder to cope.