All-woman squads are taking over Mexico's drug wars
How all-woman squads are taking over Mexico's drug wars


All-female death squads known as 'The Skinny Girls' are quietly infiltrating Mexico's brutal drug wars and using their charm and sex appeal to kill their rivals.

The 'young, beautiful and reckless' assassins make up the 'Flaka' squads in the major criminal cartels and operate in groups of three or four.

They have swapped the more traditional role within drug trafficking gangs of laundering drug money and raising children for murdering women in rival cartels.

For example, La Gladys of the Zetas cartel butchered notorious assassin Joselyn Niño, of the Gulf Cartel in 2015 - and remains at large in northern Mexico.

Last year, one female killer known as 'La Peque' (pictured) claimed to have had intercourse with beheaded corpses and drank their blood

The female killer La Malandra (pictured) - The Thugette - of the brutal Zeta cartel, regularly posts pictures armed with a bulletproof vest and a long-wave radio

She killed, dismembered and stuffed Niño in a beer cooler just over the Mexican border.

Niño had achieved notoriety when a picture of her grasping a modified M4 assault rifle with an innocent smile on her face began circulating on social media.

A picture of her body laying next to a dead man and another woman was taken before another image was posted showing her dismembered body in the cooler.

A tattoo saying 'Nino', the same as the one seen on her right forearm, is also seen in the cooler.

Alongside the photo was a message warning people to 'keep sending theses f****** a**holes', insisting they will meet the same fate.

'By keeping a low profile they avoid suspicion where men doing the same job would quickly find themselves in trouble,' Andrew Chesnut, a professor at Virginia Commonwealth University, told Fox News.

Chesnut, who is an expert on La Santa Muerte - a patroness to drug traffickers - explained that some killers work their way up in cartels, start out in prostitution or are recruited in prison.

La Gladys of the Zetas cartel butchered notorious assassin Joselyn Niño (pictured), of the Gulf Cartel in 2015 - and remains at large in northern Mexico

La Peque is a 29-year-old, of the Sinaloa Cartel in northwestern Mexico. She said she got her start as a ‘halconeo’ – a lookout for police and army patrols

'These girls are all active on social media, and in seeing images of the drug traffickers' lifestyles, they naturally want a piece of it themselves,' he said.

Last year, one female killer known as 'La Peque' (the little one) claimed to have had intercourse with beheaded corpses and drank their blood.

The 29-year-old, of the Sinaloa Cartel in northwestern Mexico, made the admission from a Baja, California prison.

Juana said: ‘Ever since I was a little girl I was a rebel, and then became a drug addict and an alcoholic.’

She was born in Hidalgo, near Mexico City. She became pregnant at 15 by a man 20 years her senior.

To support herself and her child, she worked as a prostitute – before delving into the dangerous cartel world.

Juana said she got her start as a ‘halconeo’ – a lookout for police and army patrols, according to Central European news.

Her job entailed standing at a lookout point for eight hours at a time. If she failed, Juana said she was tied up and fed a single taco per day.

During her time working for the cartel La Peque bore witness to a host of gruesome moments, including a man’s head being smashed open with a mace

The first of the three 'Skinny Girls' was Veronica Mireya Moreno (pictured). According to The Daily Beast she started out as a police officer and became a hero when she was wounded during a shootout

During her time working for the cartel she bore witness to a host of gruesome moments, including a man’s head being smashed open with a mace.

‘I remember feeling sad and thinking I did not want to end up like that,’ said Juana.

Her aversion to blood did not last long, however.

Local news site Denuncias claims Juana began to ‘feel excited by it, rubbing myself in it and bathing in it after killing a victim.’

‘I even drank it when it was still warm,’ she alleged.

Denuncias said Juana ‘insinuated’ at having ‘had sex with the cadavers of those decapitated, using the severed heads as well as the rest of their bodies to pleasure herself'.

The Flakas have risen in prominence due to the crackdown on sicario death squads since Mexico's brutal drug war began in 2007.

La Malandra often posts pictures on social media posing with guns - although the women know they must keep a relatively low profile to avoid being captured by police

She remains at large in Mexico and has been a 'Skinny Girl' for nine years

The young assassins are deployed on missions that require subtlety rather than physical strength.

They disguise themselves as ordinary girls and gain their mark's trust using charm and their physical attributions - many have cosmetic surgery to be the 'most desired' and get male attention.

'There's an inextricable link between sex and death in the culture of these female killers in seeking to be the most desired by the narco men, they seek also to be the most brutal among their group of peers,' Chesnut said.

The first of the three 'Skinny Girls' was Veronica Mireya Moreno. According to The Daily Beast she started out as a police officer and became a hero when she was wounded during a shootout.

She is then alleged to have signed with the Los Zetas cartel and was arrested in 2011 while driving a stolen car - with a revolver and six cellphones inside.

She was subsequently arrested and charged with being complicit in a number of murders and drug deals.