10 Underclassmen with Best Shot at 2017 Heisman Trophy
10 Underclassmen with Best Shot at 2017 Heisman Trophy
10 Underclassmen with Best Shot at 2017 Heisman Trophy The Heisman Trophy used to be a senior-dominated award. Underclassmen occasionally snatched college football's highest honor, but for seven decades, that simply meant a junior. In the last 10 years, though, the Heisman winners have only been freshmen, sophomores and juniors. Players like Baker Mayfield, J.T. Barrett and Mason Rudolph are hoping to snap the streak in 2017, but they'll battle a terrific group of underclassmen. Declaring early for the NFL draft has become immensely popular—and for good reason. Once a player is draft-eligible and viewed favorably, it's often wise to chase the money immediately. But that cycle typically leaves young players in pre-eminent roles. Given a choice between betting on a senior or the field, the smartest option is the latter. The following talents are the best of that bunch. 10. Josh Rosen, QB, UCLA UCLA stumbled through a rough 2016 season. That actually works in Josh Rosen's favor when thinking about 2017. No, his injury-shortened year isn't a great memory. But expectations for the Bruins aren't high heading into Rosen's junior campaign. Plus, most Pac-12 attention is directed toward USC, defending champion Washington and potential bounce-back team Oregon. With big numbers and a 10-win season, Rosen could win over the generally indifferent crowd that roots for the emergent storyline. Should Rosen remain in the conversation down the stretch, a Nov. 18 road game at USC will be his make-or-break performance. 9. Trace McSorley, QB, Penn State The trouble for Trace McSorley is he's not going to win the Heisman if Penn State is mediocre, yet Penn State being excellent probably means running back Saquon Barkley is shredding opponents. But that's not going to happen unless McSorley frustrates defenses with his dual-threat ability. McSorley threw for 3,614 yards and 29 touchdowns to just eight interceptions last year, adding 365 yards and seven scores on the ground. Approaching 4,000 total yards is essentially a prerequisite for Heisman-contending quarterbacks in this era. A three-week stretch against Michigan, at Ohio State and at Michigan State will define McSorley's—and Barkley's—candidacy. May the bigger stats (potentially) win. 8. Deondre Francois, QB, Florida State Florida State will always try to establish the running game, but Deondre Francois must shoulder a heavier burden without running back Dalvin Cook. As a redshirt freshman in 2016, Francois completed 58.8 percent of his passes for 3,350 yards, 20 touchdowns and just seven interceptions. While that efficiency led to a 10-3 record, it's no surprise his three worst games coincided with FSU's losses. Although the Seminoles lost a few regular targets in Travis Rudolph, Bobo Wilson, Kermit Whitfield and Cook, Francois spread the ball around last year anyway. The departures are notable but shouldn't be a major concern. September clashes with Alabama and Miami could spark Francois' season. November road games against Clemson and Florida may then solidify or derail a Heisman run. 7. Derrius Guice, RB, LSU The SEC's leader in yards per carry during the last two years, Derrius Guice finally has the backfield to himself. That pesky Leonard Fournette guy is off to the NFL. In all seriousness, Guice occupied a significant role last season while Fournette battled injuries. The sophomore collected 1,387 yards and 15 touchdowns despite tallying a combined 12 carries against Wisconsin, Mississippi State, Auburn and Alabama. Guice logged 16-plus carries eight times and averaged 161.9 yards in those games, topping 150 yards five times with a pair of 250-plus-yard outputs and a high of 285. As long as LSU contends for the SEC East crown, Guice will have the necessary team success to support a Heisman chase. 6. Jake Browning, QB, Washington Jake Browning may have deserved an invite to the Heisman Trophy presentation last year. He posted 3,430 yards with 43 touchdowns and only nine interceptions, leading Washington to a Pac-12 championship and the College Football Playoff. But a sixth-place finish is still pretty good. And, to be honest, a similar finish in 2017 would be quite impressive because speedster John Ross leaves a sizable hole on the outside. The Huskies still have Dante Pettis and Chico McClatcher, though. Plus, the defense's likely regression—which is more a product of being good last season Browning. After a bye week on Oct. 21, Washington ends the season against UCLA, Oregon, at Stanford, Utah and Washington State. Browning has five superb chances for a late Heisman moment. 5. Bo Scarbrough, RB, Alabama Though a broken right fibula ended Bo Scarbrough's national championship early, Matt Zenitz of AL.com noted last week that Nick Saban said the junior "will probably be able to go in a short period of time." Injuries have plagued Scarbrough in college, but the 6'2", 232-pounder is a devastating runner when healthy. He occupied a reserve role for a majority of 2016 but earned a featured spot during the regular-season finale. Against four ranked teams, Scarbrough tallied 454 yards and six touchdowns. With a full season of that success plus a few stat-padding games against inferior defenses, Scarbrough could have enormous numbers. Granted, he'll battle with Damien Harris, Josh Jacobs, B.J. Emmons Damien Harris for carries in 2017. But Saban has showed he's willing to ride a single runner. Scarbrough, as long as injuries don't flare up, has massive potential. 4. Saquon Barkley, RB, Penn State Barkley has eclipsed the 1,000-yard mark in both his college seasons, but versatility is what makes him a Heisman candidate. Last year, Penn State's star racked up 1,496 yards and 18 touchdowns on the ground while snaring 28 passes for 402 yards and four scores. Barkley's average of 14.4 yards per reception ranked 12th among FBS running backs. To truly compete for the award, though, Barkley needs to perform at an elite level on a more consistent basis. Until shredding USC in the postseason, his best outputs came opposite two of the Big Ten's worst defenses and was unspectacular against top teams. While that doesn't change Barkley's value—he's a sensational player—Heisman winners excel on the brightest stages. For Barkley (and McSorley) in 2017, that's stretch happens in late October and the first game of November. 3. Jalen Hurts, QB, Alabama Tua Tagovailoa's presence may lead Jalen Hurts to peer over his shoulder at the first sign of struggles. For now, though, the reigning first-team All-SEC quarterback is the clear starter. As a true freshman, the dual-threat star recorded a 62.8 completion percentage with 23 touchdowns to just nine interceptions, scampering for 954 yards and 13 scores. Yes, Hurts has a couple areas to develop—particularly his downfield accuracy and the quickness of decisions while under pressure—but he returns with the 11th-most yards of total offense nationally from last year. Teams don't simply bench a player like that because he's not perfect. The major sticking point in the Heisman debate is Hurts managed fewer than 200 yards in 10 of 15 games last year. But it also shows how much room Hurts has for statistical improvement during his second season as a starter. 2. Lamar Jackson, QB, Louisville Stop the presses! The reigning Heisman Trophy winner does, in fact, have a decent chance to win the Heisman Trophy. What's interesting about Lamar Jackson is he rattled the commonly accepted theory that you can't win the award in September or October. The simple truth is the first two months of 2016 are exactly what propelled Jackson to the honor. His encore performance will be filled with new faces throughout the entire offense. Jackson can be the steady, guiding force of the Louisville attack. Will that translate to another Heisman run? Perhaps not. But we're not going to doubt someone who amassed 5,114 yards of total offense and 51 touchdowns before he steps onto the field. 1. Sam Darnold, QB, USC Why is Darnold at No. 1 instead of Jackson? Consider the external pressure being placed on the second-year starter. Darnold tallied 3,086 yards, 31 touchdowns and nine interceptions last year despite attempting a combined 20 passes in the first three games. After USC's fumble-filled loss at Utah, he led the Trojans to nine straight victories with a Rose Bowl win. The offseason praise for USC definitely isn't going to abruptly stop. If Darnold is remotely close to matching his efficiency and effectiveness of 2016, voters will be quick to reward the sophomore for meeting their own expectations. Should the Trojans match their championship potential, the program could celebrate its first Heisman Trophy winner since a dominant run in the early 2000s. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

1 of 11

Brett Carlsen/Getty Images

The Heisman Trophy used to be a senior-dominated award. Underclassmen occasionally snatched college football's highest honor, but for seven decades, that simply meant a junior.

In the last 10 years, though, the Heisman winners have only been freshmen, sophomores and juniors. Players like Baker Mayfield, J.T. Barrett and Mason Rudolph are hoping to snap the streak in 2017, but they'll battle a terrific group of underclassmen.

Declaring early for the NFL draft has become immensely popular—and for good reason. Once a player is draft-eligible and viewed favorably, it's often wise to chase the money immediately. But that cycle typically leaves young players in pre-eminent roles.

Given a choice between betting on a senior or the field, the smartest option is the latter. The following talents are the best of that bunch.