Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is now the second richest man in the world
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is now the second richest man in the world
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is now the second richest man in the world after overtaking Amancio Ortega and Warren Buffett, according to Bloomberg's Billionaires Index. Amazon's stock price has rocketed 50% in the past 12 months, adding to the net-worth of its largest shareholder, founder Jeff Bezos. The Amazon founder is now worth $75.6 billion, according to Bloomberg, surpassing Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffet ($75.5 billion) and Amancio Ortega, chairman of Inditex fashion group ($74.1 billion). Bill Gates is still the richest man in the world with a net-worth of $86 billion. Amazon has been on a roll lately, crushing numbers with Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Amazon Prime. One analyst sees the company being worth $1 trillion in the not too distant future. Click here for a real-time Amazon chart. NOW WATCH: 7 mega-billionaires who made a fortune last year The Fed's pension fund is flashing a warning sign about the Trump trade The death of 'Trumpcare' is great for hospital stocks These exquisite quilts illustrate the importance of diversification in investing

Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is now the second richest man in the world after overtaking Amancio Ortega and Warren Buffett, according to Bloomberg's Billionaires Index.

Amazon's stock price has rocketed 50% in the past 12 months, adding to the net-worth of its largest shareholder, founder Jeff Bezos. The Amazon founder is now worth $75.6 billion, according to Bloomberg, surpassing Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffet ($75.5 billion) and Amancio Ortega, chairman of Inditex fashion group ($74.1 billion).

Bill Gates is still the richest man in the world with a net-worth of $86 billion.

Amazon has been on a roll lately, crushing numbers with Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Amazon Prime. One analyst sees the company being worth $1 trillion in the not too distant future.

Click here for a real-time Amazon chart.

Screen Shot 2017 03 29 at 11.57.36 AM More

NOW WATCH: 7 mega-billionaires who made a fortune last year





More From Business Insider