‘The Daily’: ‘Phone Romeos’ and Who Called Nunes
‘The Daily’: ‘Phone Romeos’ and Who Called Nunes
: Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC It’s the latest twist in a bizarre Washington drama that began on the night of March 21. Representative Devin Nunes, a Republican from California, was riding across town in an Uber car when he got a call about some information. • The Times reports that Mr. Nunes, the House Republican in charge of investigating President Trump’s ties to Russia, secretly met with two Trump aides. We talk with my colleague Matt Rosenberg, who is tracking this story. • Ellen Barry, the South Asia bureau chief for The New York Times, discusses how the rapid spread of cellphones in India is transforming the way young men and women interact. • The story by Mr. Rosenberg, Maggie Haberman and Adam Goldman about the revelation that White House officials helped give Mr. Nunes intelligence reports . Advertisement • Ms. Barry’s story showing the way that technology interrupts culture . Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com . Tweet me at @mikiebarb . And if that isn’t enough, we can even text . How do I listen? The Daily Michael Barbaro will text you about what's happening in the news. I'm Michael Barbaro, host of our new audio report, The Daily. Sign up and I'll send you a daily link to a story (or episode of the show) you won't want to miss. I'll keep it brief, just like the show. Thanks! Talk to you soon. Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link , which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”) Advertisement Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed .) Advertisement You can listen and subscribe using the free app RadioPublic, which is available worldwide. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link to play the latest episode and learn more about the app. Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed .) Advertisement Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily . Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.” Advertisement You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.” THE DAILY: Theo Balcomb, senior producer; Andy Mills, producer; Sam Dolnick, contributing editor; Peter Sale, sound engineer. NYT AUDIO: Lisa Tobin, executive producer; Samantha Henig, editorial director; Pedro Rosado, studio manager. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

It’s the latest twist in a bizarre Washington drama that began on the night of March 21.

Representative Devin Nunes, a Republican from California, was riding across town in an Uber car when he got a call about some information.

On today’s episode:

• The Times reports that Mr. Nunes, the House Republican in charge of investigating President Trump’s ties to Russia, secretly met with two Trump aides. We talk with my colleague Matt Rosenberg, who is tracking this story.

• Ellen Barry, the South Asia bureau chief for The New York Times, discusses how the rapid spread of cellphones in India is transforming the way young men and women interact.

Background reading:

• The story by Mr. Rosenberg, Maggie Haberman and Adam Goldman about the revelation that White House officials helped give Mr. Nunes intelligence reports.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Ms. Barry’s story showing the way that technology interrupts culture.

Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if that isn’t enough, we can even text.

How do I listen?

If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.

The Daily Michael Barbaro will text you about what's happening in the news. I'm Michael Barbaro, host of our new audio report, The Daily. Sign up and I'll send you a daily link to a story (or episode of the show) you won't want to miss. I'll keep it brief, just like the show. Thanks! Talk to you soon. Yes, please send me messages from NYT The Daily to this phone number. Privacy policy U.S. numbers only. Standard messaging rates may apply.

On your iPhone or iPad:

Open the preloaded app called “Podcasts”; it has a purple icon. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link, which will take you straight there. (You can also use the magnifying glass icon to search; type “The Daily.”)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Once you’re on the series page, you can tap on the episode title to play it, and tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free.

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On your Android phone or tablet:

You can listen and subscribe using the free app RadioPublic, which is available worldwide. If you’re reading this from your phone, tap this link to play the latest episode and learn more about the app.

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

From a desktop or laptop:

Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.

On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:

Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Google Home:

You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”