The Walking Dead season 7 finale episode: The 5 characters who might die
The Walking Dead season 7 finale episode: The 5 characters who might die
This weekend sees the dreaded finale of season seven and, this being the show we know, someone is going to perish in an awful way, The episode looks to finally unite all the different communities for the war against The Saviours after a season of build up which undoubtedly means that all cast members will feature in the same outing for the first time since last season. It also means the playing field is evened out - anybody could go. Below are the five most likely candidates to meet their demise this weekend. Who knows - there may be even two (lest we forget the traumatic season opener ). The most shocking Walking Dead moments               The most shocking Walking Dead moments    Sophie's a walker (season 2, episode 7)   Much of season two's opening half is spent looking for Sophia, the missing daughter of Carol (Melissa McBride). Turns out she was locked up in Hershel's barn as a zombie all along.      Shane reanimates without being bitten (season 2, episode 12)   When Carl (Chandler Riggs) guns down a deranged Shane (Jon Bernthal) to protect his father, the shock arrives when he manifests into a walker despite not being bitten; turns out everyone's infected with the virus and will turn whichever way they die.      Axel's bullet to the eye (season 3, episode 10)   A character introduced in the show's prison arc, Axel is a reformed prisoner who strikes up a friendship with Carol - until he's gunned down mid-sentence.      Carl kills Lori after she gives birth (season 3, episode 4)   Lori (Sarah Wayne Callies) goes into labour at the very moment a zombie siege breaks out at the prison. Unfortunately, she doesn't make it through the procedure with her son Carl being the one to put a bullet to her head.      The Governor slays Hershel (season 4, episode 8)   The Governor makes his dramatic return for a showdown at the prison after he captures Michonne (Danai Gurira) and Hershel (Scott Wilson). Rick reaches out, attempting to reason with him - but The Governor starts a war when he proceeds to decapitate poor old Hershel instead.      "Look at the flowers" (season 4, episode 14)   In a standout episode from the show's fourth season, Carol is forced to take drastic measures when young teenager Lizzie murders her sister Mika in the belief that she'll live on as a zombie. Realising Lizzie's depraved mind would endanger those around her, Carol puts a gun to the young girl's head and, telling her to "look at the flowers," pulls the trigger, fighting back the tears.      Carl's bullet to the eye (season 6, episode 9)   Season six returned from its mid-season break in typically dramatic fashion when an iconic moment from the graphic novels came to life: Carl takes a bullet to the eye.      Beth is killed (season 5, episode 8)   Upon being kidnapped, Beth (Emily Kinney) is taken to Grady Memorial Hospital managed by Atlanta Law Enforcement. Forced to reside there against her will, the group - including Rick and Daryl (Norman Reedus) - eventually find her - only for her to be accidentally shot in the head by her captor. The worst thing? Her sister Maggie (Lauren Cohan) had just arrived outside.      Negan kills Abraham   Season seven opened in brutal form as we discovered it was Abraham (Michael Cudlitz)  at the opposite end of Negan's baseball bat. "Suck my nuts," the soldier growls as the Saviours' leader brings Lucille raining down on his head until nothing remains but a pulpy mess.      Negan kills Glenn   Negan decides to punish the group once more after getting clocked round the face by Daryl. Without expectation, he thwacks Lucille round the head of poor Glenn. With his eyeball popping out of his head, he manages: "I'll find you, Maggie before Negan proceeds to finish the job ending the former pizza delivery boy's life.   Things are not looking good for Sasha. Last time we saw her, she was imprisoned in a cell at the Sanctuary having just been handed a suicide pill by Eugene, determined to kill herself before being used by Negan to hurt her friends. Whichever way things go down, it's tough to see poor Sasha getting out of the finale alive - especially considering Sonequa Martin-Green has been cast as the lead in new TV series Star Trek Discovery. Say your goodbyes. Eugene turned his back on his fellow Alexandrians earlier this season, so he's most certainly higher up on the list of people who deserve to perish. Not that we'd like to see it; Eugene joined forces with The Saviours out of nothing but cold hard fear of Negan. He'll no doubt be put to use in whatever horrible plan Negan has in store for Alexandria, especially if he discovers he gave Sasha the poison,. That, and he's in David Lynch's upcoming Twin Peaks revival. In Gregory, we have another coward on our hands - and one who goes out of his way to abate The Saviours so readily seems destined for the most gruesome of deaths. Currently, it seems like old Gregory is on his way to the Sanctuary to - as promised - fill Simon (Steven Ogg) in on the shenanigans the Hilltop Colony and surrounding communities are planning for The Saviours. This could completely backfire on him. He could also be used to scupper Rick's plan - this man hasbeen the Hilltop leader for some time now so will undoubtedly have people who'd be sad to see him go. It'd be one hell of a shocking turnaround should Rosita bite the bullet especially after being handed a lifeline by Sasha a few weeks back when the latter locked her out of their plans to assassinate Negan. Rosita is still feeling grief over Abraham's murder and is completely plagued with guilt over what happened to Olivia so she'll be gunning for The Saviours more than anyone when the ultimate showdown arises. And let's not forget, she damaged Lucille - Negan most certainly won't forget that soon. Following a brush with death this time last year, Carol's been relatively out of the line of fire for an entire season - rare for a character who is usually unafraid to get her hands dirty. It seems she's now on board with Ezekiel's plan to go into battle against The Saviours so she's going to thrust herself right back into it. This season opened with the death of an original cast member - perhaps things will come full circle and rid itself of another. It's tough to see Rick, Carl and Daryl going at this stage which would leave Carol. Please no. concludes its seventh season this Sunday (2 April) and the following evening in the UK (3 April) at 9pm on FOX. More about: The Walking Dead The Walking Dead season 7 Comments

This weekend sees the dreaded finale of The Walking Dead season seven and, this being the show we know, someone is going to perish in an awful way,

The episode looks to finally unite all the different communities for the war against The Saviours after a season of build up which undoubtedly means that all cast members will feature in the same outing for the first time since last season.

It also means the playing field is evened out - anybody could go. Below are the five most likely candidates to meet their demise this weekend. Who knows - there may be even two (lest we forget the traumatic season opener).

The most shocking Walking Dead moments







10 show all The most shocking Walking Dead moments

















1/10 Sophie's a walker (season 2, episode 7) Much of season two's opening half is spent looking for Sophia, the missing daughter of Carol (Melissa McBride). Turns out she was locked up in Hershel's barn as a zombie all along.

2/10 Shane reanimates without being bitten (season 2, episode 12) When Carl (Chandler Riggs) guns down a deranged Shane (Jon Bernthal) to protect his father, the shock arrives when he manifests into a walker despite not being bitten; turns out everyone's infected with the virus and will turn whichever way they die.

3/10 Axel's bullet to the eye (season 3, episode 10) A character introduced in the show's prison arc, Axel is a reformed prisoner who strikes up a friendship with Carol - until he's gunned down mid-sentence.

4/10 Carl kills Lori after she gives birth (season 3, episode 4) Lori (Sarah Wayne Callies) goes into labour at the very moment a zombie siege breaks out at the prison. Unfortunately, she doesn't make it through the procedure with her son Carl being the one to put a bullet to her head.

5/10 The Governor slays Hershel (season 4, episode 8) The Governor makes his dramatic return for a showdown at the prison after he captures Michonne (Danai Gurira) and Hershel (Scott Wilson). Rick reaches out, attempting to reason with him - but The Governor starts a war when he proceeds to decapitate poor old Hershel instead.

6/10 "Look at the flowers" (season 4, episode 14) In a standout episode from the show's fourth season, Carol is forced to take drastic measures when young teenager Lizzie murders her sister Mika in the belief that she'll live on as a zombie. Realising Lizzie's depraved mind would endanger those around her, Carol puts a gun to the young girl's head and, telling her to "look at the flowers," pulls the trigger, fighting back the tears.

7/10 Carl's bullet to the eye (season 6, episode 9) Season six returned from its mid-season break in typically dramatic fashion when an iconic moment from the graphic novels came to life: Carl takes a bullet to the eye.

8/10 Beth is killed (season 5, episode 8) Upon being kidnapped, Beth (Emily Kinney) is taken to Grady Memorial Hospital managed by Atlanta Law Enforcement. Forced to reside there against her will, the group - including Rick and Daryl (Norman Reedus) - eventually find her - only for her to be accidentally shot in the head by her captor. The worst thing? Her sister Maggie (Lauren Cohan) had just arrived outside.

9/10 Negan kills Abraham Season seven opened in brutal form as we discovered it was Abraham (Michael Cudlitz) at the opposite end of Negan's baseball bat. "Suck my nuts," the soldier growls as the Saviours' leader brings Lucille raining down on his head until nothing remains but a pulpy mess.

10/10 Negan kills Glenn Negan decides to punish the group once more after getting clocked round the face by Daryl. Without expectation, he thwacks Lucille round the head of poor Glenn. With his eyeball popping out of his head, he manages: "I'll find you, Maggie before Negan proceeds to finish the job ending the former pizza delivery boy's life.

Sasha (Sonequa Martin-Green)

Things are not looking good for Sasha. Last time we saw her, she was imprisoned in a cell at the Sanctuary having just been handed a suicide pill by Eugene, determined to kill herself before being used by Negan to hurt her friends. Whichever way things go down, it's tough to see poor Sasha getting out of the finale alive - especially considering Sonequa Martin-Green has been cast as the lead in new TV series Star Trek Discovery. Say your goodbyes.

Eugene (Josh McDermitt)

Eugene turned his back on his fellow Alexandrians earlier this season, so he's most certainly higher up on the list of people who deserve to perish. Not that we'd like to see it; Eugene joined forces with The Saviours out of nothing but cold hard fear of Negan. He'll no doubt be put to use in whatever horrible plan Negan has in store for Alexandria, especially if he discovers he gave Sasha the poison,. That, and he's in David Lynch's upcoming Twin Peaks revival.

Gregory (Xander Berkeley)

In Gregory, we have another coward on our hands - and one who goes out of his way to abate The Saviours so readily seems destined for the most gruesome of deaths. Currently, it seems like old Gregory is on his way to the Sanctuary to - as promised - fill Simon (Steven Ogg) in on the shenanigans the Hilltop Colony and surrounding communities are planning for The Saviours. This could completely backfire on him. He could also be used to scupper Rick's plan - this man hasbeen the Hilltop leader for some time now so will undoubtedly have people who'd be sad to see him go.

Rosita Espinosa (Christian Serratos)

It'd be one hell of a shocking turnaround should Rosita bite the bullet especially after being handed a lifeline by Sasha a few weeks back when the latter locked her out of their plans to assassinate Negan. Rosita is still feeling grief over Abraham's murder and is completely plagued with guilt over what happened to Olivia so she'll be gunning for The Saviours more than anyone when the ultimate showdown arises. And let's not forget, she damaged Lucille - Negan most certainly won't forget that soon.

The Walking Dead 7x16 “The First Day Of The Rest Of Your Life” Promo [HD]

Carol Peletier (Melissa McBride)

Following a brush with death this time last year, Carol's been relatively out of the line of fire for an entire season - rare for a character who is usually unafraid to get her hands dirty. It seems she's now on board with Ezekiel's plan to go into battle against The Saviours so she's going to thrust herself right back into it. This season opened with the death of an original cast member - perhaps things will come full circle and rid itself of another. It's tough to see Rick, Carl and Daryl going at this stage which would leave Carol. Please no.

The Walking Dead concludes its seventh season this Sunday (2 April) and the following evening in the UK (3 April) at 9pm on FOX.