Company sets tough test for job applicants: 'Convince us James Blunt isn't awful'
Company sets tough test for job applicants: 'Convince us James Blunt isn't awful'
Swedish marketing firm has set a fiendish task for job seekers applying for an account manager vacancy. In addition to the usual CV and cover letter, content agency Borg & Owilli is instructing applicants to "sell us James Blunt." "Can you convince us that half the planet is way off the mark and James Blunt's new pop album is absolutely world class?" the job ad explains. "We're looking for people with a creative streak, but also someone who is such a good seller they can convince the entire office that James Blunt's new album should be played through the speakers on repeat." David Borg, one of the partners at the firm, was the brains behind the take. He told The Local : "It was my idea. We previously had difficult job tests linked to current events. Last year we had a test where people had to convince our colleague who is an American to vote for Donald Trump instead of Hillary Clinton in the election. "Now that the world's worst and most pointless artist has released a new album, we thought it fit well. The key to success is to sell his pointless emptiness as really being deep poetry. That won’t be easy." ames Blunt, who scored a massive hit with his 2004 single You're Beautiful, has long been a target of derision among music snobs. However, in recent years been applauded for the barbed, often self-deprecating wit with which he responded to his detractors. He recently told The Telegraph : “Whoever reviews my album for your paper will not be brave enough to say they like it – even if they think it’s the best album they’ve ever heard, because they are too worried about how they are going to be perceived. But it’s OK, I’m cool with that." 10 of James Blunt's best Twitter jokes...about himself 1. This set list gag: Anyone want a signed set list of mine from 2006? pic.twitter.com/Z0tmKIpBtN 2. This 'Glastonbury headliner announcement': t the time, a fair few people fell for this one... Amazed and thrilled to get the call from @GlastoFest to headline in place of @foofighters . Of course I said yes! #rockon 3. This to-the-point clarification: Nope, you're on your own. RT @chickenoriental : I must be 1 of only 2 who genuinely likes every @jamesblunt song. The other person being him. 4. This Lent-related dig: For Lent, I've given up music. There is a god. 5. This New Year's warning: If you thought 2016 was bad - I'm releasing an album in 2017. 6. This explanation: That generation tend not to use Twitter. RT @JonasKryptonite : @JamesBlunt why don't you tweet people that actually like you very very much? 7. This helpful correction: 2006, actually. RT @K_Dick33 : Why does James Blunt have a million followers? He stopped being relevant in 2009 8. This explanation for his name: My real name is James Blount, but I changed it as people teased me that it rhymed with 'count'. 9. This terrifying anecdote: Me too. And even worse, I realised I was! @shigham77  @Lloydy_78 I'm having a bad weekend, some guy just asked me if I was James Blunt!? 10. This beautiful joke: Yup, it's called "Greatest Hit". RT @Farrsigh : There's a "best of" James Blunt? Really?

A Swedish marketing firm has set a fiendish task for job seekers applying for an account manager vacancy.

In addition to the usual CV and cover letter, content agency Borg & Owilli is instructing applicants to "sell us James Blunt."

"Can you convince us that half the planet is way off the mark and James Blunt's new pop album is absolutely world class?" the job ad explains.

"We're looking for people with a creative streak, but also someone who is such a good seller they can convince the entire office that James Blunt's new album should be played through the speakers on repeat."

David Borg, one of the partners at the firm, was the brains behind the take. He told The Local: "It was my idea. We previously had difficult job tests linked to current events. Last year we had a test where people had to convince our colleague who is an American to vote for Donald Trump instead of Hillary Clinton in the election.