Google Maps lets you play Pac-Man on real streets
Google Maps lets you play Pac-Man on real streets
oogle has launched an April Fool's Day version of Google Maps that allows users to play the classic arcade game Ms Pac-Man on real streets. Google Maps users on smartphones can access the game by opening up the Google Maps app and clicking the pink circle in the bottom right of the screen. The app transports you to a random location, turning the map blue and throwing you into a version of the game in which you must guide your yellow character around the map, eating up dots and avoiding the colourful ghosts. ou swipe on the touchscreen to navigate around the map, and get five lives with which to clear map while outrunning your enemies. The game is fiendishly difficult - more so than the arcade classic - since the world's streets are a haphazard mess compared to the neat lines of the original Pac-Man map. You often run into dead ends and it's not clear what street you will end up when running off the side of the screen. I was wondering why google maps suddenly had a pacman setting and then I saw today's date... pic.twitter.com/bFfmKVPOWL Whoa!! Pacman inside Google Maps :) pic.twitter.com/yGEh87Qcev t isn't the first time Google Maps has turned into Pac-Man for April Fool's Day. The idea was last tried in 2015 on the web version. Google has a long history with the game - it created a Google Doodle version of Pac-Man in 2010 to mark the arcade classic's 30th anniversary. You can still play it by typing "Pac-Man" into Google.

Google has launched an April Fool's Day version of Google Maps that allows users to play the classic arcade game Ms Pac-Man on real streets.

Google Maps users on smartphones can access the game by opening up the Google Maps app and clicking the pink circle in the bottom right of the screen.

The app transports you to a random location, turning the map blue and throwing you into a version of the game in which you must guide your yellow character around the map, eating up dots and avoiding the colourful ghosts.