Dave East & Beanie Sigel Team Up for Gritty Video 'The Real Is Back': Watch
Dave East & Beanie Sigel Team Up for Gritty Video 'The Real Is Back': Watch
Dave East & Beanie Sigel Team Up for Gritty Video 'The Real Is Back': Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Harlem rapperÂ Dave East Â heads to Philadelphia for this latest visual, the gritty "The Real Is Back"Â featuring Philly hip-hop veteranÂ Beanie Sigel .Â With his aunt's old block serving as the backdrop, East and SigelÂ speak on their humble beginnings. "Now I'm living with a purpose, I ain't perfect/ Allah got me, ain't spend too much time in churches/ This from the heart, I ain't spend too much time rehearsing/ I was really thinking rob before I purchased," East spits. Beans also offers his own gems:Â "I do this for the youth in the Matrix who won't make it/ I tell 'em every knock is a boost, remain patient." In an interview with , East beamed about his collaboration with Sigel. "That was like a dream come true for me because Sigel is one of my top three favorite rappers of all time. I grew up on Beans," he said.Â "Just to be able to be in the same room. He gave me a lot of game that night. We both Muslim so that was another level of respect. It was beautiful man. That whole thing let me know I'm still on pace to be where I need to be."Â  East remains one of New York's brightest prospects. Last September, he inked a deal with Def Jam after releasing his acclaimed project . With a handful of collaborations with Juelz Santana , A$AP Ferg and his mentor Nas Â in his catalog, East is prepping his major-label debut, slated for later this year.Â Watch "The Real Is Back" video below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Harlem rapperÂ Dave EastÂ heads to Philadelphia for this latest visual, the gritty "The Real Is Back"Â featuring Philly hip-hop veteranÂ Beanie Sigel.Â

With his aunt's old block serving as the backdrop, East and SigelÂ speak on their humble beginnings. "Now I'm living with a purpose, I ain't perfect/ Allah got me, ain't spend too much time in churches/ This from the heart, I ain't spend too much time rehearsing/ I was really thinking rob before I purchased," East spits. Beans also offers his own gems:Â "I do this for the youth in the Matrix who won't make it/ I tell 'em every knock is a boost, remain patient."

In an interview with Noisey, East beamed about his collaboration with Sigel. "That was like a dream come true for me because Sigel is one of my top three favorite rappers of all time. I grew up on Beans," he said.Â "Just to be able to be in the same room. He gave me a lot of game that night. We both Muslim so that was another level of respect. It was beautiful man. That whole thing let me know I'm still on pace to be where I need to be."Â

East remains one of New York's brightest prospects. Last September, he inked a deal with Def Jam after releasing his acclaimed project Kairi Chanel. With a handful of collaborations with Juelz Santana, A$AP Ferg and his mentor NasÂ in his catalog, East is prepping his major-label debut, slated for later this year.Â

Watch "The Real Is Back" video below.