'Game of Thrones' fan deciphers the tiny reflections in Season 7 promo
'Game of Thrones' fan deciphers the tiny reflections in Season 7 promo
You know you've got a serious, serious problem when you find yourself obsessively zooming in on a still image frame in an attempt to decipher the tiny reflections in a White Walker's eye. This is we're talking about, though, and that kind of niche analysis is not only expected, but encouraged. SEE ALSO: An obsessive breakdown of the first 'Game of Thrones' trailer Following the release of the Season 7 promo on Thursday, Reddit user FacelessGreensear shared a close-up image of the Night's King's eye. They'd highlighted what appear to be a couple of intriguing objects in the reflection of his iris. First, here's another look at the eye, which flashes up at the end of the promo. Notice anything? Image:  youtube/ gameofthrones Now let's go in for a close-up. What's that thing that looks like a ridge? And that cave-like dark splodge on the right? Image:  youtube/ gameofthrones /mashable composite Closer! Could it be...? Image:  youtube/ gameofthrones /mashable composite FacelessGreen highlighted a few different areas in his Imgur post , but we've picked out the two most interesting shapes in the image above. It's impossible to be sure, but the line running right from the top of the Night's King's pupil does sort of resemble the top of the wall. And the dark, cave-like shape on the right? Well this is probably clutching at straws, but maybe — just — it's actually a giant crack. What are those ghostly shapes? Image:  youtube/ gameofthrones /mashable composite On the left of the iris, meanwhile, are three human shares. Maybe some fellow White Walkers, gathered round to watch some sort of big event? Put all those elements together and there's the tiniest, tiniest possibility that what we're actually witnessing is the Night's King looking on as the wall begins to come tumbling down. Are we reading into this too much? Probably. But with three-and-a-half months still to wait until Season 7 comes out, we've got to fill our time somehow. WATCH: Natalie Dormer reveals what it's like to be killed off on 'Game of Thrones'

You know you've got a serious, serious Game of Thrones problem when you find yourself obsessively zooming in on a still image frame in an attempt to decipher the tiny reflections in a White Walker's eye.

This is Game of Thrones we're talking about, though, and that kind of niche analysis is not only expected, but encouraged.

Following the release of the Game of Thrones Season 7 promo on Thursday, Reddit user FacelessGreensear shared a close-up image of the Night's King's eye. They'd highlighted what appear to be a couple of intriguing objects in the reflection of his iris.

First, here's another look at the eye, which flashes up at the end of the promo.

Notice anything? Image: youtube/gameofthrones

Now let's go in for a close-up.

What's that thing that looks like a ridge? And that cave-like dark splodge on the right? Image: youtube/gameofthrones/mashable composite

Closer!

Could it be...? Image: youtube/gameofthrones/mashable composite

FacelessGreen highlighted a few different areas in his Imgur post, but we've picked out the two most interesting shapes in the image above.

It's impossible to be sure, but the line running right from the top of the Night's King's pupil does sort of resemble the top of the wall.

And the dark, cave-like shape on the right? Well this is probably clutching at straws, but maybe — just maybe — it's actually a giant crack.

What are those ghostly shapes? Image: youtube/gameofthrones/mashable composite

On the left of the iris, meanwhile, are three human shares. Maybe some fellow White Walkers, gathered round to watch some sort of big event?

Put all those elements together and there's the tiniest, tiniest possibility that what we're actually witnessing is the Night's King looking on as the wall begins to come tumbling down.

Are we reading into this too much? Probably.

But with three-and-a-half months still to wait until Season 7 comes out, we've got to fill our time somehow.