Stargazing guide: Look up and see these 10 things in April

Stargazing guide: Look up and see these 10 things in April Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   ABC Science   Genelle Weule  Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   The southern hemisphere gets the best view of the Milky Way. ABC Open contributor Trevor_Dobson Look up! It's stargazing season at the ABC, and we're giving you the chance to take your very own journey across the night sky with astronomer Professor Fred Watson. Your tour will take you across the Milky Way from the south to the north. Along the way you'll see some beautiful constellations, star clusters, galaxies, and the mighty Jupiter and Moon. To take part, download Professor Watson's audio tour below, go outside on a clear night, look up and listen! Before you get started Check the weather to find a cloud-free night, and find a location that has a clear view of the horizon and is as far away from light as possible. Stargazing teaser box ABC and iview April 4-6   Professor Brian Cox and Julia Zemiro will be joined by scientists and personalities to inspire Australia to explore our solar system. Live from Siding Spring Observatory they will tackle astronomy's most intriguing questions. Take a look at our April sky map to get a rough idea of what the night sky looks like in the early evening between 7 - 8pm. You might want to print or save it for reference. Use a red light, such as a torch covered in red cellophane to help you see the map and reduce light interference. Your actual view of the night sky will depend upon your location, the time of night and month. If you live further south than 30 degrees latitude (that includes all Australia's capital cities except Brisbane and Darwin) the Southern Cross will be slightly higher above the southern horizon. And if you live further north, it will be closer to the southern horizon. The Southern Cross also changes position throughout the night, appearing to move around a central point in a clockwise direction. There are also many night sky apps that can orientate you to the positions of constellations for your location (if you have mobile internet coverage). Once you've given your eyes 10 to 15 minutes to adapt to the dark, it's time to start your journey and be talked through the experience by Professor Watson. Some of the beautiful things you might see include: The Southern Cross Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   The pointers lead the way to the Southern Cross. (Note: In the early evening it will be on its side) Supplied: ©2008 Akira Fujii/David Malin Images The Southern Cross — or Crux Australis — is the most iconic constellation in the southern hemisphere. In April, the Southern Cross lies on its side between 7 - 8pm — and becomes more upright as the night progresses. To find the cross, look for the two Pointer Stars Alpha and Beta Centauri and follow their line towards the Southern Cross. The second brightest star in the cross, Beta Crucis, also known as Mimosa, is closest to the Pointer Stars. The brightest star, at the foot of the cross, is called Alpha Crucis. Towards the centre of the cross is the fifth, and faintest star Eta Crucis. This can be very hard to see in very light polluted areas. The Jewel Box Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   The Jewel Box star cluster can be seen in the Southern Cross constellation ESO Tucked near Mimosa in the Southern Cross is a beautiful little cluster of over 100 orange, yellow and blue stars. In 1830, the English astronomer John Herschel was so enamoured by the cluster he nicknamed it The Jewel Box, which is much prettier than the catalogue correct name NGC 4755. One of the central stars in the A-shaped cluster is a red supergiant. The Jewel Box is about 6,400 light years away, so the light we see today was emitted before the Great Pyramids in Egypt were built. Omega Centauri Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   Omega Centauri is a globular cluster containing millions of ancient stars. ESO It may not look like it to the naked eye, but Omega Centauri is a massive, spherical cluster of over 10 million stars located about 15,800 light years away. Omega Centauri is the biggest and most massive cluster in the Milky Way. Throughout history, Omega Centauri has had a bit of an identity crisis. Ancient astronomers thought it was a star, in the 17th century Edmund Halley thought it was a nebula, and in the 18th century it was called a globular cluster. It's still called a globular cluster, but these days astronomers believe it may be the core of an ancient galaxy that was stripped of its outer stars. The stars, which are between 10 - 12 billion years old, are so tightly packed they are only about a third of a light-year apart. That's roughly about 13 times closer than the closest star to our Sun. The Emu in the Sky Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   The Emu in the Sky stretches across the Milky Way. Getty Images: K. Muller If you are away from bright lights, you'll be able to make out a dark patch just near the Jewel Box. This is called the Coalsack nebula — it's a patch of gas and dust that hides the light from the stars behind it. It is also the 'head' of the Indigenous constellation The Emu in the Sky. In April, the Emu rises vertically from the horizon, stretching through the Milky Way. From its head near the Southern Cross, the Emu's neck passes between the Pointer Stars, and its body lies in the constellation of Scorpius, which rises above the horizon between 8:30 PM - 10:30PM (depending upon your location). The False Cross Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   Don't get your Southern Cross mixed up with your False or Diamond crosses (note these crosses will be to the right and higher than Crux in the early evening). Supplied: ©2008 Akira Fujii/David Malin Images The False Cross is not a constellation (these are strictly defined by the International Astronomical Union), but is an asterism (a group of stars that form a pattern or shape). The False Cross is made up of two stars from the constellation of Vela and two stars from the constellation of Carina. Once upon a time these two constellations and Puppis were part of a super constellation called Argo, the ship. It's easy to confuse the False Cross with the Southern Cross, but the False Cross does not have pointer stars. In April, about 7 - 8 pm, the False Cross sits above your head between the Southern Cross and Canopus (the second brightest star in the night sky). If you have binoculars, look for a beautiful star cluster just below the right hand tip of the cross. This is NGC 2516 or the Southern Beehive. Halfway between the Southern Cross and the False Cross is another cross — the Diamond Cross. This is has a much more elongated kite shape than either of the other crosses. The Magellanic Clouds Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   This image of the Tarantula Nebula, taken by amateur astrophotographer Scott Carnie-Bronca, won the Junior Prize in the 2016 David Malin Awards Supplied: Scott Carnie-Bronca The Magellanic Clouds are actually dwarf galaxies that are slowly being pulled apart by our galaxy. They look like they're stray bits of the Milky Way, but they're actually not connected in any way. The Large Magellanic Cloud, which is 165,000 light years away, is filled with star nurseries. The brightest of these is called the Tarantula Nebula — a glowing mass of stars and gas filaments that look like spider legs. This can be seen through binoculars or, even better, a rich-field telescope. Just below it is the slightly fainter Small Magellanic Cloud, which is about 240,000 light years away. To see both galaxies you need to be in a dark sky area. Sirius Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   Sirius, the brightest star in the night sky, sits above and to the right of Orion in the southern hemisphere. Supplied: ESA/Akira Fujii It's hard to miss Sirius — it's the brightest star in the night sky. Known as the Dog Star because it sits in the constellation of Canis major, Sirius is also the ultimate twinkling star. This effect is due to turbulence in the Earth's atmosphere breaking up the star's light into different colours of the spectrum.  Look high in the sky towards north to see Sirius in April between 7 - 8pm. Orion Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   Wikimedia: Rawastrodata Below and to the left of Sirius is Orion — the hunter in Western star lore — one of the most famous constellations. In the southern hemisphere, though, Orion is upside down. So his belt and sword become what many Australians call the saucepan. In the handle of the saucepan lies one of the most spectacular deep sky objects — the Orion Nebula. Under dark skies the middle star looks like a fuzzy patch, but through binoculars you can make out several stars embedded in a pearly haze. Four stars form a rectangle around the saucepan. The two brightest are Rigel — a white star in the top left corner — and Betelgeuse a red supergiant star in the bottom right corner. Betelgeuse will probably explode soon (well if you call 100,000 years soon) and become a bright supernova. The Zodiac Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   The Beehive Cluster is found in the constellation of Cancer Wikimedia: Miguel Garcia The zodiac constellations follow the same path across the sky as the Moon, planets and Sun called the ecliptic — moving from east to west. In the early evening from 7 - 8pm you will see Taurus on the western horizon; Gemini, Cancer, Leo, and Virgo on the eastern horizon. As the night progresses these constellations will sink below the western horizon as others rise from the east. Taurus has a red star called Aldebaran, which is often mistaken for Mars, and the head of the Gemini twins are two stars called Castor and Pollux — they look like the pointers but there is no cross above them so you can't get confused. Cancer, to the east of Gemini, can be a bit hard to find, but if you have a pair of binoculars look for the Beehive Cluster, a pretty cluster of stars about 600 million years old. Leo, named after the lion, looks like a sickle or upside-down question mark in the southern hemisphere. And on the eastern horizon in the early evening you'll find Virgo with its brightest star Spica. And right near Spica this month is Jupiter. Jupiter Share                                Reddit   Tumblr   LinkedIn   Google+   Digg   StumbleUpon   Close   Jupiter will be at its biggest and brightest on April 4. ESA/E Karkoschka (University of Arizona), fileman: NASA In April this year, you'll see only one planet in the evening sky: the mighty Jupiter. And it will be at its biggest and brightest for the whole year on April 4. Jupiter is the largest planet in our solar system — it's a gas giant with a mass more than double that of all the other planets in our solar system combined. It also has lots of moons — 67 that we know of. If you have binoculars or even better a telescope you will be able to make out Jupiter and its four largest moons: Ganymede, Callisto, Io, and Europa. Stargazing banner highlight  Stargazing live banner  ABC science promo Want more science from across the ABC? Subscribe to our weekly email newsletter Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Topics  Stars   Science and Technology   Planets and Asteroids   Astronomy (Space)   Australia    Stargazing Live on TV, radio, iview and online April 4-6     Stargazing Live with Brian Cox     Get involved and share your images     Amateur stargazers share passion for all things space     Tutorials: How to capture the night sky     A portrait of our solar system     Quiz: Can you spot the landmarks from space?     Scientific insights in Indigenous culture    Top science stories    Stargazing guide: 10 things to see in the sky this April     Inside the Australian telescope built to see the dawn of the universe     Why are some people more gullible than others?     How Mars lost its warm, wet atmosphere     Dr Karl: How much space junk exists, and how did it get there?   Top Stories                                         Connect with ABC News            Got a news tip? If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC . News in your inbox

The southern hemisphere gets the best view of the Milky Way.

Look up! It's stargazing season at the ABC, and we're giving you the chance to take your very own journey across the night sky with astronomer Professor Fred Watson.

Your tour will take you across the Milky Way from the south to the north. Along the way you'll see some beautiful constellations, star clusters, galaxies, and the mighty Jupiter and Moon.

To take part, download Professor Watson's audio tour below, go outside on a clear night, look up and listen!



External Link: April night sky tour with Professor Fred Watson

Before you get started

Check the weather to find a cloud-free night, and find a location that has a clear view of the horizon and is as far away from light as possible.

Stargazing teaser box ABC and iview April 4-6 Professor Brian Cox and Julia Zemiro will be joined by scientists and personalities to inspire Australia to explore our solar system. Live from Siding Spring Observatory they will tackle astronomy's most intriguing questions.

Take a look at our April sky map to get a rough idea of what the night sky looks like in the early evening between 7 - 8pm. You might want to print or save it for reference. Use a red light, such as a torch covered in red cellophane to help you see the map and reduce light interference.

Your actual view of the night sky will depend upon your location, the time of night and month. If you live further south than 30 degrees latitude (that includes all Australia's capital cities except Brisbane and Darwin) the Southern Cross will be slightly higher above the southern horizon. And if you live further north, it will be closer to the southern horizon. The Southern Cross also changes position throughout the night, appearing to move around a central point in a clockwise direction.

There are also many night sky apps that can orientate you to the positions of constellations for your location (if you have mobile internet coverage).

Once you've given your eyes 10 to 15 minutes to adapt to the dark, it's time to start your journey and be talked through the experience by Professor Watson.

Some of the beautiful things you might see include:

The Southern Cross

Share The pointers lead the way to the Southern Cross. (Note: In the early evening it will be on its side)

The Southern Cross — or Crux Australis — is the most iconic constellation in the southern hemisphere.

In April, the Southern Cross lies on its side between 7 - 8pm — and becomes more upright as the night progresses. To find the cross, look for the two Pointer Stars Alpha and Beta Centauri and follow their line towards the Southern Cross.

The second brightest star in the cross, Beta Crucis, also known as Mimosa, is closest to the Pointer Stars. The brightest star, at the foot of the cross, is called Alpha Crucis.

Towards the centre of the cross is the fifth, and faintest star Eta Crucis. This can be very hard to see in very light polluted areas.

The Jewel Box

Share The Jewel Box star cluster can be seen in the Southern Cross constellation

Tucked near Mimosa in the Southern Cross is a beautiful little cluster of over 100 orange, yellow and blue stars.

In 1830, the English astronomer John Herschel was so enamoured by the cluster he nicknamed it The Jewel Box, which is much prettier than the catalogue correct name NGC 4755.

One of the central stars in the A-shaped cluster is a red supergiant.

The Jewel Box is about 6,400 light years away, so the light we see today was emitted before the Great Pyramids in Egypt were built.

Omega Centauri

Share Omega Centauri is a globular cluster containing millions of ancient stars.

It may not look like it to the naked eye, but Omega Centauri is a massive, spherical cluster of over 10 million stars located about 15,800 light years away.

Omega Centauri is the biggest and most massive cluster in the Milky Way.

Throughout history, Omega Centauri has had a bit of an identity crisis. Ancient astronomers thought it was a star, in the 17th century Edmund Halley thought it was a nebula, and in the 18th century it was called a globular cluster.

It's still called a globular cluster, but these days astronomers believe it may be the core of an ancient galaxy that was stripped of its outer stars.

The stars, which are between 10 - 12 billion years old, are so tightly packed they are only about a third of a light-year apart. That's roughly about 13 times closer than the closest star to our Sun.

The Emu in the Sky

Share The Emu in the Sky stretches across the Milky Way.

If you are away from bright lights, you'll be able to make out a dark patch just near the Jewel Box.

This is called the Coalsack nebula — it's a patch of gas and dust that hides the light from the stars behind it. It is also the 'head' of the Indigenous constellation The Emu in the Sky.

In April, the Emu rises vertically from the horizon, stretching through the Milky Way.

From its head near the Southern Cross, the Emu's neck passes between the Pointer Stars, and its body lies in the constellation of Scorpius, which rises above the horizon between 8:30 PM - 10:30PM (depending upon your location).

The False Cross

Share Don't get your Southern Cross mixed up with your False or Diamond crosses (note these crosses will be to the right and higher than Crux in the early evening).

The False Cross is not a constellation (these are strictly defined by the International Astronomical Union), but is an asterism (a group of stars that form a pattern or shape). The False Cross is made up of two stars from the constellation of Vela and two stars from the constellation of Carina. Once upon a time these two constellations and Puppis were part of a super constellation called Argo, the ship.

It's easy to confuse the False Cross with the Southern Cross, but the False Cross does not have pointer stars.

In April, about 7 - 8 pm, the False Cross sits above your head between the Southern Cross and Canopus (the second brightest star in the night sky). If you have binoculars, look for a beautiful star cluster just below the right hand tip of the cross. This is NGC 2516 or the Southern Beehive.

Halfway between the Southern Cross and the False Cross is another cross — the Diamond Cross. This is has a much more elongated kite shape than either of the other crosses.

The Magellanic Clouds

Share This image of the Tarantula Nebula, taken by amateur astrophotographer Scott Carnie-Bronca, won the Junior Prize in the 2016 David Malin Awards

The Magellanic Clouds are actually dwarf galaxies that are slowly being pulled apart by our galaxy. They look like they're stray bits of the Milky Way, but they're actually not connected in any way.

The Large Magellanic Cloud, which is 165,000 light years away, is filled with star nurseries. The brightest of these is called the Tarantula Nebula — a glowing mass of stars and gas filaments that look like spider legs. This can be seen through binoculars or, even better, a rich-field telescope.

Just below it is the slightly fainter Small Magellanic Cloud, which is about 240,000 light years away.

To see both galaxies you need to be in a dark sky area.

Sirius

Share Sirius, the brightest star in the night sky, sits above and to the right of Orion in the southern hemisphere.

It's hard to miss Sirius — it's the brightest star in the night sky.

Known as the Dog Star because it sits in the constellation of Canis major, Sirius is also the ultimate twinkling star. This effect is due to turbulence in the Earth's atmosphere breaking up the star's light into different colours of the spectrum.



Look high in the sky towards north to see Sirius in April between 7 - 8pm.

Orion

Share This image of the Orion Nebula was photographed on an amateur telescope with a DSLR and narrowband filter

Below and to the left of Sirius is Orion — the hunter in Western star lore — one of the most famous constellations. In the southern hemisphere, though, Orion is upside down. So his belt and sword become what many Australians call the saucepan.

In the handle of the saucepan lies one of the most spectacular deep sky objects — the Orion Nebula. Under dark skies the middle star looks like a fuzzy patch, but through binoculars you can make out several stars embedded in a pearly haze.

Four stars form a rectangle around the saucepan. The two brightest are Rigel — a white star in the top left corner — and Betelgeuse a red supergiant star in the bottom right corner. Betelgeuse will probably explode soon (well if you call 100,000 years soon) and become a bright supernova.

The Zodiac

Share The Beehive Cluster is found in the constellation of Cancer

The zodiac constellations follow the same path across the sky as the Moon, planets and Sun called the ecliptic — moving from east to west. In the early evening from 7 - 8pm you will see Taurus on the western horizon; Gemini, Cancer, Leo, and Virgo on the eastern horizon.

As the night progresses these constellations will sink below the western horizon as others rise from the east.

Taurus has a red star called Aldebaran, which is often mistaken for Mars, and the head of the Gemini twins are two stars called Castor and Pollux — they look like the pointers but there is no cross above them so you can't get confused.

Cancer, to the east of Gemini, can be a bit hard to find, but if you have a pair of binoculars look for the Beehive Cluster, a pretty cluster of stars about 600 million years old.

Leo, named after the lion, looks like a sickle or upside-down question mark in the southern hemisphere.

And on the eastern horizon in the early evening you'll find Virgo with its brightest star Spica. And right near Spica this month is Jupiter.

Jupiter

Share Jupiter will be at its biggest and brightest on April 4.

In April this year, you'll see only one planet in the evening sky: the mighty Jupiter. And it will be at its biggest and brightest for the whole year on April 4.

Jupiter is the largest planet in our solar system — it's a gas giant with a mass more than double that of all the other planets in our solar system combined. It also has lots of moons — 67 that we know of.

If you have binoculars or even better a telescope you will be able to make out Jupiter and its four largest moons: Ganymede, Callisto, Io, and Europa.

You can explore the night sky even more in a special ABC event called Stargazing Live for three nights from April 4.

Stargazing banner highlight

Sound production by Dianne Dean, Jen Parsonage and Russell Stapleton.