Trump in 2016: 'If You're Not Guilty of a Crime, What Do You Need Immunity For?'

Trump in 2016: 'If You're Not Guilty of a Crime, What Do You Need Immunity For?' // // // // // Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn wants immunity to testify in the congressional and criminal investigations into Russian meddling in the U.S. presidential election. Flynn’s attorney said Thursday that the retired general is in discussions with the House and Senate intelligence committees, indicating he wants immunity from "unfair prosecution" in exchange for answering questions on potential ties between Russia and Trump campaign associates. President Trump tweeted Friday that his former national security adviser is right to seek immunity, claiming that Flynn is caught up in a “witch hunt” of “historic proportion.” Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media & Dems, of historic proportion! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 31, 2017 Trump, however, hasn't always been a fan of immunity. At a campaign rally in Florida in September 2016, Trump used the immunity issue to attack Hillary Clinton during the FBI's investigation into her private email server. "Her aides took the Fifth Amendment and her ringleaders were given immunity," Trump said. "If you're not guilty of a crime, what do you need immunity for?" Flynn himself made similar statements last year during the campaign. Shepard Smith pointed out this afternoon that Trump repeatedly claimed during the campaign that the immunity issue proved that Clinton had something to hide. Shep noted that Trump mentioned immunity again several days later on the campaign trail. "Here's my question for Hillary Clinton: Can you promise that not one of the five people who were granted criminal immunity will ever be allowed to serve in a Clinton administration, if that ever happens?" Trump said at a rally in Michigan on September 30.

Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn wants immunity to testify in the congressional and criminal investigations into Russian meddling in the U.S. presidential election.

Flynn’s attorney said Thursday that the retired general is in discussions with the House and Senate intelligence committees, indicating he wants immunity from "unfair prosecution" in exchange for answering questions on potential ties between Russia and Trump campaign associates.

President Trump tweeted Friday that his former national security adviser is right to seek immunity, claiming that Flynn is caught up in a “witch hunt” of “historic proportion.”

Mike Flynn should ask for immunity in that this is a witch hunt (excuse for big election loss), by media & Dems, of historic proportion! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 31, 2017

Trump, however, hasn't always been a fan of immunity.

At a campaign rally in Florida in September 2016, Trump used the immunity issue to attack Hillary Clinton during the FBI's investigation into her private email server.

"Her aides took the Fifth Amendment and her ringleaders were given immunity," Trump said. "If you're not guilty of a crime, what do you need immunity for?"

Flynn himself made similar statements last year during the campaign.

Shepard Smith pointed out this afternoon that Trump repeatedly claimed during the campaign that the immunity issue proved that Clinton had something to hide.

Shep noted that Trump mentioned immunity again several days later on the campaign trail.

"Here's my question for Hillary Clinton: Can you promise that not one of the five people who were granted criminal immunity will ever be allowed to serve in a Clinton administration, if that ever happens?" Trump said at a rally in Michigan on September 30.

Chris Matthews Compares Ivanka, Jared Kushner to Saddam Hussein's Sons

Eboni Williams: Time for Dems to Find 'New Blood' and New Narrative

The Internet Will Not Stop Asking Cracker Barrel Why #BradsWife Was Fired

Michael Moore Mocked for Warning of Human Extinction, 'Thanks to Trump'