Grammar schools are now giving priority to disadvantaged pupils, new study shows
Grammar schools are now giving priority to disadvantaged pupils, new study shows
rammar schools across the country are now using positive discrimination in a bid to increase their intake of children from disadvantaged backgrounds, new research has revealed. More than a third of grammars have now changed their admissions criteria for the next academic year, including lowering the 11 Plus entrance test marks, in a move seen to be paving the way for hundreds of new--more open--selective schools. The analysis, carried out by TES, reveals that more than 50 grammars will now give disadvantaged pupils priority over their wealthier peers, following proposals by the Government that would require selective schools to be more “representative of their local communities”. They include the Weald of Kent Grammar School in Tonbridge, approved by the former Education Secretary Nicky Morgan in 2015, which became the first grammar to be built in more than 50 years. t comes a day after the Education Secretary, Justine Greening, said that a new generation of grammar schools would debunk fears surrounding selection and help lift the attainment of pupils in some of the UK’s most deprived areas. Speaking at a conference hosted by the Social Mobility Commission, Ms Greening said: “In the end, we’re talking about a new model of how grammar schools work and how selection works. “It really does mean that we’ve got an education system that caters for the very different talents and potential of different children. “Whether it is technical education… whether it is giving local communities more choice of how they want selection to work at a local level, what we are saying is that if we’re really going to have things different, we have to be prepared to look at what that’s going to take. “That’s precisely why there’s so much work going on right now to make sure what we bring forward will be a new model for how selection can work – one that works constructively to generally raise attainment.” nder current guidance grammars are able to lower their policy on marks required in the 11+ exam, and can allocate a ‘lower offers’ to pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds. They can also change their oversubscription criteria, meaning eligible pupils can be selected according to location, siblings, faith, or whether they qualify for free school meals. However, prior to this year, the majority of grammar schools in England did not factor a child’s social background into their admissions policies. Now nearly three-quarters, or 72 percent, are considering policies that would grant some degree of priority to disadvantaged pupils - many of which are focussed on those students eligible for free school meals. Grammars that have lowered entrance marks includes the Blue Coat School, Liverpool which has confirmed it will lower its entrance exam pass mark for 27 free school meals students. "We have to make sure we don’t let anyone’s talent go to waste." Read @JustineGreening speech on #socialmobility  https://t.co/6BgBPKJiuW  pic.twitter.com/wlSCbM9yIl ike Pennington, headmaster at Blue Coat, said that school had decided on the policy independent of Government, adding that “tackling” social mobility problems in Liverpool was one of the school’s key priorities. “Our new admission arrangement allow us to take into account that somebody who has not had as good a start in life as another person, but achieves only a slightly lower mark than them in a test, has the potential to go on and achieve great things,” he said. “We want to be part of a local community that says anybody can be anything they want to be. And the outreach work that we have started working on will be a major part of that.” rom September 2018, Judd School, in Tonbridge, Kent, will also set aside five places for disadvantaged pupils who live in the school’s inner catchment area, as will Lawrence Sheriff School, Rugby. The 2018/19 academic year represents the first time that grammars are able to change their admission policies in the wake of the  Government's Green Paper on selective education, published last year, which called on heads to accelerate their plans for “fair access” for disadvantaged pupils.

Grammar schools across the country are now using positive discrimination in a bid to increase their intake of children from disadvantaged backgrounds, new research has revealed.

More than a third of grammars have now changed their admissions criteria for the next academic year, including lowering the 11 Plus entrance test marks, in a move seen to be paving the way for hundreds of new--more open--selective schools.

The analysis, carried out by TES, reveals that more than 50 grammars will now give disadvantaged pupils priority over their wealthier peers, following proposals by the Government that would require selective schools to be more “representative of their local communities”.

They include the Weald of Kent Grammar School in Tonbridge, approved by the former Education Secretary Nicky Morgan in 2015, which became the first grammar to be built in more than 50 years.