Investigators locate remains of Isabel Celis, 6-year-old girl who went missing in 2012
Remains of Isabel Celis, who went missing in 2012, found in Arizona: Police
Shares               The remains of Isabel Celis , the 6-year-old who went missing from her Arizona home in 2012, have been found, the Tucson Police Department announced Friday. Investigators found the human remains in a rural area in Pima County, said Tucson Chief of Police Chris Magnus. A portion of those remains were then sent to an out-of-state laboratory for DNA analysis, which confirmed they were the remains of the little girl, Magnus said. "It ends the hope of bringing Isabel home safely to her family," he said, adding that Isabel's parents have been informed. Police have actively reviewed and followed up on more than 2,200 leads since the day Isabel went missing, Magnus said. The police department will continue to actively pursue "those responsible for any kind of involvement in Isabel's disappearance," he said.       Magnus would not provide the exact location where the remains were found or disclose what led investigators to Pima County, simply saying that their presence there was "not happenstance." The scene has been "thoroughly processed," and a full investigation has been completed there, he said. The police chief also did not release any information on potential suspects but asked the public to contact police with any information relating to Isabel's case, promising to continue to investigate "in a very dedicated manner." Isabel's abduction garnered national attention after she was reported missing by her father on the morning of April 21, 2012. Her father discovered that she was missing after Isabel's mother had left for work and he went to her bedroom in their Tucson home to wake her up, then-Tucson Chief of Police Roberto Villasenor said at the time. After her abduction, Isabel's family told ABC News that they had no doubt the girl was kidnapped by a stranger. Shares                  Remains of Isabel Celis, who went missing in 2012, found in Arizona: Police   White House officials played role in surfacing documents Nunes viewed   White House allowing public to request financials for senior staff   Most occupants in Texas bus crash were wearing seat belt: NTSB   US cancer deaths are decreasing, study finds   Clinton criticizes Trump budget cuts to diplomatic programs   US enrolls volunteers in large test of possible Zika vaccine   Charleston church shooter to plead guilty in state murder case   Judge approves Trump University settlement   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   7-year-old basketball star gets a special surprise from Harlem Globetrotters   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   Teacher raises $80K for bikes for elementary school's entire student body   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service   Woman accused of leaving toddler at South Carolina Wal-Mart   China plans panda preserve 3 times size of Yellowstone park   Sessions: Ferguson emblem of tense relationship with police   US gives NATO allies 2 months for defense spending plans   3 airliners in near-misses with drones at London's Heathrow   Dad stunned wounded man is nightclub shooting suspect   FBI releases new batch of 9/11 Pentagon photos   'The Watcher' allegedly continues to harass NJ homeowners   Dem opposition to Trump court pick grows; Schumer warns GOP   12-year-old girl picks perfect NCAA Final Four bracket   Hayden Christensen, Mark Hamill back for 'Star Wars' Celebration   'The Boss Baby' and 'Ghost in the Shell' among this week's new releases   Harriet Tubman photo bought by Smithsonian, national library   April Fools' Day: How did it start?

The remains of Isabel Celis, the 6-year-old who went missing from her Arizona home in 2012, have been found, the Tucson Police Department announced Friday.

Investigators found the human remains in a rural area in Pima County, said Tucson Chief of Police Chris Magnus. A portion of those remains were then sent to an out-of-state laboratory for DNA analysis, which confirmed they were the remains of the little girl, Magnus said.

"It ends the hope of bringing Isabel home safely to her family," he said, adding that Isabel's parents have been informed.

Police have actively reviewed and followed up on more than 2,200 leads since the day Isabel went missing, Magnus said. The police department will continue to actively pursue "those responsible for any kind of involvement in Isabel's disappearance," he said.

Magnus would not provide the exact location where the remains were found or disclose what led investigators to Pima County, simply saying that their presence there was "not happenstance." The scene has been "thoroughly processed," and a full investigation has been completed there, he said.

The police chief also did not release any information on potential suspects but asked the public to contact police with any information relating to Isabel's case, promising to continue to investigate "in a very dedicated manner."

Isabel's abduction garnered national attention after she was reported missing by her father on the morning of April 21, 2012. Her father discovered that she was missing after Isabel's mother had left for work and he went to her bedroom in their Tucson home to wake her up, then-Tucson Chief of Police Roberto Villasenor said at the time.

After her abduction, Isabel's family told ABC News that they had no doubt the girl was kidnapped by a stranger.