Oscar Robertson rooting for Russell Westbrook of Oklahoma City Thunder to set record for triple-doubles in season
Big O hopes Westbrook sets triple-double mark
Big O hopes Westbrook sets triple-double mark Rating Ballmer, Buss and the NBA's 30 owners Ten things I like and don't like, including Harden's runway moves Yao Ming's ambitious quest to bring elite basketball to China Durant: NBA only concerned about top players resting NBA playoff push: Cavs drop behind Celtics atop East Robertson doesn't think any guard can beat Russell Westbrook one-on-one and he deserves the MVP award. (1:19) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Oklahoma City Thunder guard Russell Westbrook has a supporter in his effort to set an NBA record for most triple-doubles in a season: current record holder Oscar Robertson. Speaking at the Final Four in Phoenix on Friday, Robertson told ESPN's Andy Katz that "I'm rooting for him" to break the record and that "I hope he does it." "I always thought he was a great basketball player," Robertson said of Westbrook. "I was talking to some basketball people the other night, and I said, 'I don't think any of these guards can beat him on a one-on-one game.' I think he's been tremendous for the team, his fans and also for television." Westbrook enters Friday night's matchup with the San Antonio Spurs needing four triple-doubles over the Thunder's final eight regular-season games to surpass the 41 that Robertson recorded with the Cincinnati Royals in 1961-62. Robertson also endorsed Westbrook as deserving of MVP honors for his season's accomplishments. "I think it's Westbrook. That's what I really think," Robertson told Katz of his MVP pick. "Because years ago it was tough to win an MVP because it was based on winning championships -- and Russell with the Celtics . They dominated. But one year, Wilt [Chamberlain] averaged 50 points a game and 29 rebounds and me a triple-double, but Bill [Walton] won because his team advanced and we did not. "It's changed now. A lot of people understand what an MVP means. They understand basketball better than they did years ago." Westbrook is averaging 31.8 points, 10.6 rebounds and 10.4 assists per game this season. He is on track to join Robertson as the only players to average a triple-double for a season. Robertson posted 30.8 points, 12.5 rebounds and 11.4 assists per game in that 1961-62 campaign, and Westbrook has a 99.9 percent chance to finish the season averaging a triple-double, according to ESPN's Kevin Pelton. In his last game Wednesday, Westbrook set a record with 57 points in a triple-double, also producing 13 rebounds and 11 assists in an overtime win over the Orlando Magic . Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Robertson doesn't think any guard can beat Russell Westbrook one-on-one and he deserves the MVP award. (1:19)

Oklahoma City Thunder guard Russell Westbrook has a supporter in his effort to set an NBA record for most triple-doubles in a season: current record holder Oscar Robertson.

Speaking at the Final Four in Phoenix on Friday, Robertson told ESPN's Andy Katz that "I'm rooting for him" to break the record and that "I hope he does it."

"I always thought he was a great basketball player," Robertson said of Westbrook. "I was talking to some basketball people the other night, and I said, 'I don't think any of these guards can beat him on a one-on-one game.' I think he's been tremendous for the team, his fans and also for television."

Westbrook enters Friday night's matchup with the San Antonio Spurs needing four triple-doubles over the Thunder's final eight regular-season games to surpass the 41 that Robertson recorded with the Cincinnati Royals in 1961-62.

Editor's Picks Pelton mail: Should NBA scouts ignore the tourney? Kevin Pelton answers your questions on James Harden and Russell Westbrook's total points created, All-NBA selections as All-Star snubs, how much the tourney matters for the draft and more.

Robertson also endorsed Westbrook as deserving of MVP honors for his season's accomplishments.

"I think it's Westbrook. That's what I really think," Robertson told Katz of his MVP pick. "Because years ago it was tough to win an MVP because it was based on winning championships -- and Russell with the Celtics. They dominated. But one year, Wilt [Chamberlain] averaged 50 points a game and 29 rebounds and me a triple-double, but Bill [Walton] won because his team advanced and we did not.

"It's changed now. A lot of people understand what an MVP means. They understand basketball better than they did years ago."

Westbrook is averaging 31.8 points, 10.6 rebounds and 10.4 assists per game this season. He is on track to join Robertson as the only players to average a triple-double for a season. Robertson posted 30.8 points, 12.5 rebounds and 11.4 assists per game in that 1961-62 campaign, and Westbrook has a 99.9 percent chance to finish the season averaging a triple-double, according to ESPN's Kevin Pelton.

In his last game Wednesday, Westbrook set a record with 57 points in a triple-double, also producing 13 rebounds and 11 assists in an overtime win over the Orlando Magic.

Information from ESPN's Royce Young contributed to this report.