This Hot New Boyband From China Is Made Up Entirely of Girls
This Hot New Boyband From China Is Made Up Entirely of Girls
No your eyes are not deceiving you — all five members of this Chinese boyband are actually girls. Acrush is made of five girls who are mostly in their early twenties, with the youngest member being only 18. The group was formed just last year but have already gained almost 900,000 followers on Chinese social platform Weibo — not bad for a band that's not even put out a music video. Photo: ACRUSH/WEIBO Most of the band's fans are predominantly female, with many calling the band members "husbands" — a term usually used to refer to famous male celebrities that they're crushing on. "I love your style, who needs princess dresses or girly music? This is the way to go," said one netizen on Weibo. "You guys are really handsome. I'm sure you'll soon become famous," another added. "The first time I've seen such a good-looking bunch of girls," one said. According to the band manager Zhou , the group avoids using he or she terms, instead using the gender-free term " ," meaning handsome youths in Chinese. Even the "A" in the group's name is manly — it stands for Adonis, the Greek god of male beauty. Photo: ACRUSH/WEIBO The group was formed after their manager began searching for unisex stars across the country, in light of the success of Li Yuchun, a pop star in China who maintains a rather androgynous style. After some six months of searching, Lu Keran, An Junxi, Peng Xichen, Min Junqian and Lin Fan were announced as the five members of Acrush. According to Lu, she's kept her hair short since she was young, and frequently got mistaken for a boy when going into women's restrooms growing up. The group is officially called "FFC-Acrush" as they're part of a sports brand called the Fantasy Football Confederation , an organisation which trains artists and "develops idols." All bands under the FFC have to learn to play soccer, and incorporate the sport into their performances. The band is expected to release their debut video in April. We can't wait.

No your eyes are not deceiving you — all five members of this Chinese boyband are actually girls.

Acrush is made of five girls who are mostly in their early twenties, with the youngest member being only 18.

SEE ALSO: K-pop girl group celebrates their plastic surgery with before-and-after music videos

The group was formed just last year but have already gained almost 900,000 followers on Chinese social platform Weibo — not bad for a band that's not even put out a music video.

Photo: ACRUSH/WEIBO

Most of the band's fans are predominantly female, with many calling the band members "husbands" — a term usually used to refer to famous male celebrities that they're crushing on.

"I love your style, who needs princess dresses or girly music? This is the way to go," said one netizen on Weibo.

"You guys are really handsome. I'm sure you'll soon become famous," another added.

"The first time I've seen such a good-looking bunch of girls," one said.

According to the band manager Zhou, the group avoids using he or she terms, instead using the gender-free term "meishaonian," meaning handsome youths in Chinese.

Even the "A" in the group's name is manly — it stands for Adonis, the Greek god of male beauty.

Photo: ACRUSH/WEIBO

The group was formed after their manager began searching for unisex stars across the country, in light of the success of Li Yuchun, a pop star in China who maintains a rather androgynous style.

After some six months of searching, Lu Keran, An Junxi, Peng Xichen, Min Junqian and Lin Fan were announced as the five members of Acrush.

According to Lu, she's kept her hair short since she was young, and frequently got mistaken for a boy when going into women's restrooms growing up.

The group is officially called "FFC-Acrush" as they're part of a sports brand called the Fantasy Football Confederation, an organisation which trains artists and "develops idols."

All bands under the FFC have to learn to play soccer, and incorporate the sport into their performances.

The band is expected to release their debut video in April. We can't wait.

Related Video:

For more celebrity videos visit Yahoo View, available now on iOS and Android.