Nick Xenophon defends deal to pass Government's company tax cuts



Nick Xenophon defends deal to pass Government's company tax cuts

Updated

South Australian senator Nick Xenophon has defended a deal he secured with the Government in exchange for his vote on cutting tax rates for small- and medium-sized businesses.

Key points: Deal will lower company tax rate to 25pc for businesses that make less than $50m a year

Labor says deal is "dodgy", Greens say money would be better spent on health, education or social services

Xenophon says the deal, which includes one-off payments to pensioners for electricity costs, will improve energy market's security

The Coalition passed the first tranche of its 10-year corporate tax plan on Friday night after a marathon Senate sitting, with the tax rate for businesses with a turnover up to $50 million a year cut to 25 per cent.

The Government had wanted that tax rate applied to all businesses over the next decade, but it was forced to negotiate with the crossbench and rely on a last-minute deal with Senator Xenophon.

Federal Labor has criticised the deal, which involves a swathe of energy initiatives and one-off payments to pensioners, as a "dodgy deal" that will hurt the budget bottom line.

"Nick Xenophon has sold out the national best interest in return for a dodgy deal with the Liberal Party," shadow treasurer Chris Bowen said.

The Greens also accused Senator Xenophon signing up to a deal written on the back of an envelope that forgoes $25 billion of Government revenue over 10 years. They argued the money could have been spent on health care, education, or social services.

But Senator Xenophon said the deal would be welcomed by thousands of small and medium businesses across Australia and would improve the security of the energy market while lowering prices.

"We actually got a good deal for South Australians, not only for small and medium business so they will actually have a fighting chance against the big end of town, but also in terms of power prices," he said.

"We now have a whole series of measures in place that will mean more gas on the domestic market."

What else is covered by this deal?

As part of the deal, the Government will:

Direct the AEMC and Climate Change Authority to provide further advice on how to reduce energy prices and secure the market;

on how to reduce energy prices and secure the market; Establish a review of gas retention policies , an investigation into a potential gas pipeline from the Northern Territory and the acceleration of the creation of a solar thermal plant in Port Augusta;

, an investigation into a potential gas pipeline from the Northern Territory and the acceleration of the creation of a solar thermal plant in Port Augusta; Make available a Commonwealth concession loan of up to $110 million for the project, at a 3 per cent interest rate; and

for the project, at a 3 per cent interest rate; and Give a one-off payment to pensioners to help them pay for increasing electricity costs. Single people receiving the aged pension, disability pension or parenting payment will receive a $75 payment. Couples will receive $125.

Senator Xenophon said he was confident the Government would not cut other social welfare programs to afford the one-off payment.

"The Government can't do that because bills have to be passed by the Senate and they know what the numbers are in the Senate," he said.

"This was an important concession by the Government, this will help 3 million Australians who have been battling with energy costs."

Labor says Government's deal shows wrong priorities

Mr Bowen said the company tax cuts proved the Government had the "wrong priorities" and that it should be focused on education and health.

"This is about a Government which has the wrong priorities for Australia, the wrong plan for our future," he said.

"Malcolm Turnbull and Scott Morrison showed in yesterday's chaotic scenes in Parliament that they have the wrong values and they're incompetent in delivering it."

Labor's energy spokesman Mark Butler said Senator Xenophon had "promised the world but delivered nothing".

"He said he would deliver an emissions intensity scheme (EIS) which all experts agree would start to reduce power bills by as much as $15 billion over the next decade, but he sold out for yet another study," Mr Butler said.

"To study and cover things that are already being reviewed by the Chief Scientist Alan Finkel."

Industry groups welcome tax cuts

Australian Industry Group's (AIG) head of policy Peter Burn welcomed the deal but called on the Government to ensure the tax cuts were extended to large companies.

"Having the company tax rate at 25 per cent across the board really ought to be where we are headed and that we've supported it in that context," he said.

"But the politics hasn't been supportive of that and quite frankly, business hasn't won the debate."

Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry chief executive James Pearson also welcomed the deal.

"This weekend, hundreds of thousands of Australian businesses know with certainty that the Government and majority of Parliament are backing business to succeed," he said.

"Of course you can look back and say well maybe we could have done this better, or maybe we could have done that differently.

"But let's recognise that the Parliament is a difficult place nowadays to get things done, even very sensible measures that will lift the economy and create more job opportunities such as the company tax cuts."

Topics: tax, government-and-politics, federal-government, minor-parties, political-parties, liberals, energy, electricity-energy-and-utilities, federal-parliament, australia

First posted