More unmarried couples with children breaking up than married couples for first time, ONS figures show
More unmarried couples with children breaking up than married couples for first time, ONS figures show
ore families involving unmarried than married couples are breaking down for the first time ever in what campaigners for marriage are calling a "national tragedy", ONS figures show. Analysis of the official figures shows that despite unmarried couples with children making up just one in five of all parents, they now account for more than 50 per cent of splits which involve children. While there are more than 4.8m families where the parents are married, and just 1.26m where they are not, more than 50 per cent of splits in 2016 were cohabiting couples. Ten years ago families where the parents cohabited made up 45 per cent of splits. Harry Benson, of the Marriage Foundation, who analysed the data, said the increase was due to a rise in the total number of families where the parents are unmarried. n 2006 there were just 954,000 cohabiting couples, compared to 1.26m in 2016. In 2016 51.4 per cent of families with parents who split up were unmarried, compared to 48.1 per cent of married couple families. Same-sex couples with children made up just 0.5 per cent of splits. The group, which campaigns for the public understanding of marriage, said that an increasing number of unmarried couples would lead to more children being adversely affected by their parents splitting up. Sir Paul Coleridge, a former High Court judge and founder and chairman of the Marriage Foundation, said: "Whenever family breakdown statistics are discussed people assume it means married couples divorcing, but that is not the real mischief. “The real mischief is that separating cohabiting as opposed to divorcing couples are four times more likely to split up.  This is the driver of the national tragedy of mass family breakdown." Previous research found that unmarried couples were four times more likely to split up than married couples. 5.3 per cent of unmarried couples split during the course of any one year, compared to 1.3 per cent of married couples. The UK has one of the highest levels of family breakdown in Europe. Research released earlier this year by the Social Trends Institute found that the UK is the only country in Europe where less than 75 per cent of children live with both natural parents. Levels are also high in the US, where almost one in three children live with a single parent. Mr Benson said that the unpopularity of marriage was due to an preoccupation with "individual autonomy" in the UK and US. He said it was a "public health issue" because children in cohabiting relationships were more likely to have problems with health and education. "We put ourselves first, so we're more likely to have problems with relationships. "At some point, someone's got to start paying attention to this," he said. ut Gingerbread, the charity for single parents, refuted suggestions that selfishness was behind societal decline. Rosie Ferguson, chief executive, said: "The Marriage Foundation are right to highlight the threat of poverty amongst single parents families. "Yet the solution to this has to be actions that address the specific, concrete drivers of inequality, rather than the inflammatory stigmatising of those involved."

In 2006 there were just 954,000 cohabiting couples, compared to 1.26m in 2016.

In 2016 51.4 per cent of families with parents who split up were unmarried, compared to 48.1 per cent of married couple families.

Same-sex couples with children made up just 0.5 per cent of splits.

The group, which campaigns for the public understanding of marriage, said that an increasing number of unmarried couples would lead to more children being adversely affected by their parents splitting up.

Sir Paul Coleridge, a former High Court judge and founder and chairman of the Marriage Foundation, said: "Whenever family breakdown statistics are discussed people assume it means married couples divorcing, but that is not the real mischief.

“The real mischief is that separating cohabiting as opposed to divorcing couples are four times more likely to split up. This is the driver of the national tragedy of mass family breakdown."

Previous research found that unmarried couples were four times more likely to split up than married couples.

5.3 per cent of unmarried couples split during the course of any one year, compared to 1.3 per cent of married couples.

The UK has one of the highest levels of family breakdown in Europe.

Research released earlier this year by the Social Trends Institute found that the UK is the only country in Europe where less than 75 per cent of children live with both natural parents.

Levels are also high in the US, where almost one in three children live with a single parent.

Mr Benson said that the unpopularity of marriage was due to an preoccupation with "individual autonomy" in the UK and US.

He said it was a "public health issue" because children in cohabiting relationships were more likely to have problems with health and education.