Missing Nottingham mother poses 'risk of harm' to sons, court says

Press Association   A woman suspected of abducting her two young sons poses a risk of harm to them, a family court has said. Nottingham family court said it had ordered that Dylan Madge, six, and Louis Madge, nine, should be removed from the care of their mother, Samantha Baldwin, on Monday. The 42-year-old was last seen near Nottingham city centre that day, although a missing persons appeal was launched on Tuesday after she vanished with her sons. On Wednesday, police announced the investigation had become an abduction inquiry. In a statement Nottingham family court said: “It is assumed that she has abducted Louis and Dylan. The children have now been made wards of court. Miss Baldwin is considered to pose a risk of harm to the children.” On Friday, Nottinghamshire police’s Supt Rich Fretwell said officers were growing increasingly concerned for the children’s welfare and safety. He said: “Samantha has no legal custody of the boys at this time. “Our investigation team are exploring a number of lines of inquiry. There’s always the possibility that Samantha could be being harboured by someone. We would urge that person to come forward and let us know where the boys are.” Police called on owners and staff at guest houses, bed and breakfasts, hotels and caravan parks to check their registers and be aware she may be using a different name. Two women aged 62 and 36 who were arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender have been released on bail. Baldwin is described as 5ft 7in and of slim build with shoulder-length, highlighted blonde hair and green-blue eyes. She was last seen wearing a red knee-length coat but may have changed her clothing. Louis has collar-length straight fair hair, a fair complexion and blue eyes, while Dylan has collar-length straight dark brown hair, a tanned complexion and brown eyes. Anyone with information should call Nottinghamshire police on 101 urgently, quoting incident number 332 of 27 March.  Nottingham   Family law   news

Samantha Baldwin, 42, went missing with her sons, Dylan, 6, and Louis, 9, after court ordered that boys be removed from her care

A woman suspected of abducting her two young sons poses a risk of harm to them, a family court has said.

Nottingham family court said it had ordered that Dylan Madge, six, and Louis Madge, nine, should be removed from the care of their mother, Samantha Baldwin, on Monday.

The 42-year-old was last seen near Nottingham city centre that day, although a missing persons appeal was launched on Tuesday after she vanished with her sons. On Wednesday, police announced the investigation had become an abduction inquiry.

In a statement Nottingham family court said: “It is assumed that she has abducted Louis and Dylan. The children have now been made wards of court. Miss Baldwin is considered to pose a risk of harm to the children.”

On Friday, Nottinghamshire police’s Supt Rich Fretwell said officers were growing increasingly concerned for the children’s welfare and safety.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Louis Madge (left) and Dylan Madge. Photograph: Nottinghamshire police/PA

He said: “Samantha has no legal custody of the boys at this time.

“Our investigation team are exploring a number of lines of inquiry. There’s always the possibility that Samantha could be being harboured by someone. We would urge that person to come forward and let us know where the boys are.”

Police called on owners and staff at guest houses, bed and breakfasts, hotels and caravan parks to check their registers and be aware she may be using a different name.

Two women aged 62 and 36 who were arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender have been released on bail. Baldwin is described as 5ft 7in and of slim build with shoulder-length, highlighted blonde hair and green-blue eyes.

She was last seen wearing a red knee-length coat but may have changed her clothing. Louis has collar-length straight fair hair, a fair complexion and blue eyes, while Dylan has collar-length straight dark brown hair, a tanned complexion and brown eyes.

Anyone with information should call Nottinghamshire police on 101 urgently, quoting incident number 332 of 27 March.