How Rooster Teeth Started The Web's Longest-Running Series -- And Made A Business Out Of It
How Rooster Teeth Started The Web's Longest-Running Series -- And Made A Business Out Of It
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Natalie Robehmed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Courtesy Rooster Teeth Burnie Burns (L) and Matt Hullum (R) cofounded Rooster Teeth, an online content company, in 2003. The Internet's longest-running episodic web series is not flash player cartoon or Issa Rae's , it's a comic saga built off the Halo game franchise. Started in 2003, has, according to its production company Rooster Teeth, been airing online longer than any other web program. In fact, the sci-fi comedy first hit computer screens two years before YouTube was even founded. "I was working on an animated movie around that time... and I came across this idea of pursuing machinima and thought, 'This is a ground breaking way to do animation,'" said Rooster Teeth cofounder and CEO Matt Hullum of 's technique of using computer graphics to create cinema. The show took off, so much so that this Sunday marks the premiere of its fifteenth season (as many as ). "Rooster Teeth really started as production company to service that show," explained Burnie Burns, Rooster Teeth cofounder and Chief Creative Officer, over the phone from the company's headquarters in Austin, Texas. Rooster Teeth 'Red vs. Blue,' now entering its fifteenth season, is the Internet's longest-running episodic web series. Today, the company has expanded beyond several original series to podcasts, live events and even its own video game. Its audience, which includes some 30 million subscribers across platforms, skews heavily male aged 18-to-34, though the company includes several shows helmed by women. One of the perks of being first is that Rooster Teeth is not wed to YouTube; while it likely makes a chunk of its revenue from pre-roll advertisements on its YouTube content, Rooster Teeth has long streamed and monetized video on its own website. (The company declined to share revenue figures, but claimed to have been profitable since day one.) "When we started, if we'd had a strategy of going all-in on social media that would have been trying to get as many friends on MySpace as we possibly could," explained Burns, who met Hullum while they were students at The University of Texas at Austin. "If you're going to build a business, build a business--don't build it on the back of someone else's." For the last thirteen years, Rooster Teeth has offered a subscription video on demand service, long before the acronym VOD came into use. Its paid service, FIRST, has more than 200,000 subscribers who fork over upwards of $2.99 a month to get content, well, first. ( will appear on FIRST exclusively for a week before transferring to Rooster Teeth's YouTube channel.) Those paying users account for 10% of Rooster Teeth's registered 2 million community members; the site clocks 5 million monthly unique visitors. Beyond healthy advertising and a small subscription segment, the company counts merchandise as a key moneymaker, while licensing and its annual RTX live event comprise the rest of its revenue. According to Rooster Teeth, 530 people attended the first RTX, an Internet and gaming culture convention, in 2011. Last year, that had skyrocketed to 60,000 attendees paying some $83 for a three day pass. "The pre-roll advertising is one of the last components of our business that we added," said Burns, of the familiar ads that screen before videos. "For most people in online video, pre-roll advertising is the only thing they have." Such diversification might explain why the company appealed to media organizations hoping to cash in on digital millennial audiences. In 2014, Rooster Teeth was acquired by multichannel network Fullscreen Media, which is owned by Otter Media, a joint venture between AT&T and Hollywood producer Peter Chernin's The Chernin Group. Multichannel networks make money by selling advertising across hundreds of video channels on YouTube and have been bought up by traditional media companies trying to muscle in on the the growing number of teens and young adults watching video online. Some of the pricetags have been overblown: Disney purchased Maker Studios in 2014 for an eye-watering $500 million, though DreamWorks Animation snapped up AwesomenessTV in 2013 for $33 million. A sales price for Rooster Teeth was not disclosed. Rooster Teeth has since used the cash to expand its series and premium offerings. To wit, it has invested in YouTube stars for shows such as in which players must decide if they would hypothetically rather live with an absurd predicament or give up a million dollars. (This season, popular YouTubers and 30 Under 30 honorees Grace Helbig and Hannah Hart will be in the hot seat.) The hope is that their large followings--Helbig has 3 million subscribers on YouTube alone--will goose sign ups for Rooster Teeth's paid FIRST service. For now, the company is focused on its full-length sci-fi flick , which is being produced for YouTube's paid service YouTube Red as a follow-up to the fan-financed first installment. For Rooster Teeth's loyal legions, there will always be . Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Courtesy Rooster Teeth

The Internet's longest-running episodic web series is not flash player cartoon Happy Tree Friends or Issa Rae's Awkward Black Girl, it's a comic saga built off the Halo game franchise.

Started in 2003, Red vs. Blue has, according to its production company Rooster Teeth, been airing online longer than any other web program. In fact, the sci-fi comedy first hit computer screens two years before YouTube was even founded.

"I was working on an animated movie around that time... and I came across this idea of pursuing machinima and thought, 'This is a ground breaking way to do animation,'" said Rooster Teeth cofounder and CEO Matt Hullum of Red vs. Blue's technique of using computer graphics to create cinema.

The show took off, so much so that this Sunday marks the premiere of its fifteenth season (as many as CSI: Crime Scene Investigation). "Rooster Teeth really started as production company to service that show," explained Burnie Burns, Rooster Teeth cofounder and Chief Creative Officer, over the phone from the company's headquarters in Austin, Texas.

Rooster Teeth

Today, the company has expanded beyond several original series to podcasts, live events and even its own video game. Its audience, which includes some 30 million subscribers across platforms, skews heavily male aged 18-to-34, though the company includes several shows helmed by women.

One of the perks of being first is that Rooster Teeth is not wed to YouTube; while it likely makes a chunk of its revenue from pre-roll advertisements on its YouTube content, Rooster Teeth has long streamed and monetized video on its own website. (The company declined to share revenue figures, but claimed to have been profitable since day one.)

"When we started, if we'd had a strategy of going all-in on social media that would have been trying to get as many friends on MySpace as we possibly could," explained Burns, who met Hullum while they were students at The University of Texas at Austin. "If you're going to build a business, build a business--don't build it on the back of someone else's."

For the last thirteen years, Rooster Teeth has offered a subscription video on demand service, long before the acronym VOD came into use. Its paid service, FIRST, has more than 200,000 subscribers who fork over upwards of $2.99 a month to get content, well, first. (Red vs. Blue will appear on FIRST exclusively for a week before transferring to Rooster Teeth's YouTube channel.) Those paying users account for 10% of Rooster Teeth's registered 2 million community members; the site clocks 5 million monthly unique visitors.

Beyond healthy advertising and a small subscription segment, the company counts merchandise as a key moneymaker, while licensing and its annual RTX live event comprise the rest of its revenue. According to Rooster Teeth, 530 people attended the first RTX, an Internet and gaming culture convention, in 2011. Last year, that had skyrocketed to 60,000 attendees paying some $83 for a three day pass.

"The pre-roll advertising is one of the last components of our business that we added," said Burns, of the familiar ads that screen before videos. "For most people in online video, pre-roll advertising is the only thing they have."

Such diversification might explain why the company appealed to media organizations hoping to cash in on digital millennial audiences. In 2014, Rooster Teeth was acquired by multichannel network Fullscreen Media, which is owned by Otter Media, a joint venture between AT&T and Hollywood producer Peter Chernin's The Chernin Group.

Multichannel networks make money by selling advertising across hundreds of video channels on YouTube and have been bought up by traditional media companies trying to muscle in on the the growing number of teens and young adults watching video online. Some of the pricetags have been overblown: Disney purchased Maker Studios in 2014 for an eye-watering $500 million, though DreamWorks Animation snapped up AwesomenessTV in 2013 for $33 million. A sales price for Rooster Teeth was not disclosed.

Rooster Teeth has since used the cash to expand its series and premium offerings. To wit, it has invested in YouTube stars for shows such as Million Dollars, But... in which players must decide if they would hypothetically rather live with an absurd predicament or give up a million dollars. (This season, popular YouTubers and 30 Under 30 honorees Grace Helbig and Hannah Hart will be in the hot seat.) The hope is that their large followings--Helbig has 3 million subscribers on YouTube alone--will goose sign ups for Rooster Teeth's paid FIRST service.

For now, the company is focused on its full-length sci-fi flick Lazer Team 2, which is being produced for YouTube's paid service YouTube Red as a follow-up to the fan-financed first installment.

For Rooster Teeth's loyal legions, there will always be Red vs. Blue.

Follow me on Twitter.