'Outlander' Season 3: 10 burning questions we have about Claire and Jamie's reunion
'Outlander' Season 3: 10 burning questions we have about Claire and Jamie's reunion
Because we're not half as good at time travel as Claire Fraser, we won't get to see any new episodes of until September, which means we have a few empty months in which to occupy ourselves with wild speculation until the droughtlander is officially over. We've already discussed what we know about Season 3 of so far , so let's talk about what we know, and what we hope to find out when Claire (Caitriona Balfe) and Jamie (Sam Heughan) finally return to our screens. Of course, if you've read the third novel in Diana Gabaldon's Outlander series, , you know a lot about what the new season has in store (I'm right there with you) — although that doesn't mean showrunner Ron Moore and his cohorts won't throw in some deviations from the source material, just to keep us on our toes. In the interests of letting non-book fans play along, we're going to pretend that is not readily available to sate our curiosity, and just go with what we've seen on the show so far. 1. How long will we have to wait for Claire and Jamie's reunion? Season 2 ended with Claire, now around 50 years old, deciding to go back through the Standing Stones to try and reunite with Jamie after 20 years apart — but we know that Season 3 will feature flashbacks to catch us up with what the duo got up to during those two decades without each other. SEE ALSO: 'Outlander' finale: Writer breaks down emotional scenes Does that mean we might have to wait several episodes before we see Claire travel back in time to seek out Jamie, or will the Season 3 premiere send her back pretty quickly, and fill in the blanks by jumping between time periods, as the Season 2 premiere and finale did? We know it'll be worth the wait whenever it happens, but here's hoping the writers aren't cruel when it comes to delaying our gratification. What a nightmare. Image:  starz   The Season 2 finale revealed that Claire became a surgeon when she returned back to her time, and she obviously had her hands full with Bree (Sophie Skelton) and Frank (Tobias Menzies), but we don't have much intel on what Jamie was doing in the years after Claire left him. Season 3 will undoubtedly fill us in on his sure-to-be thrilling adventures, but what we really want to know is whether Jamie had a relationship with another woman after he said goodbye to Claire. (The thought is so upsetting, I can barely type it.) Despite being a dashing ginger dreamboat who certainly never lacked attention from the ladies, Jamie was a virgin when he and Claire met, so it would be sweet to think that he swore off other partners after Claire went back to the future. Then again, TV shows thrive on conflict, and there's not much drama to be had if Claire comes back after 20 years to find out that her husband has been a perfect, celibate saint while she's been gone. Did Jamie fall in love again? (I refuse to even acknowledge the possibility.) Did he have a few casual flings just to take the edge off, believing with absolute certainty that he'd never see his time-traveling wife again? Time will tell, but I'm definitely rooting for the perfect, celibate saint route. 3. How steamy will Season 3 be? Season 2 featured plenty of political scheming, palace intrigue and bloody battles, but some fans noted that there were far fewer sex scenes than there were in Season 1 — which makes sense, considering that Jamie was dealing with the trauma of being raped and tortured, while Claire was struggling with her growing sense of isolation from her husband as he tried to recover. (Not to mention the devastating loss of their baby .) But after 20 years separated from their true love, we've got to believe that Claire and Jamie have a lot of lost time to make up for in Season 3. They might have to get to know each other all over again, but all those years of longing will probably add up to some spectacular reunion sex, right? 4. What happened to Black Jack Randall? When last we saw the sadistic Black Jack (Tobias Menzies), he was reluctantly marrying his brother's lover, Mary Hawkins, in order to secure a future for her and her unborn child (and, handily, for their descendant, Frank Randall). But the history books don't lie: Claire told Jack that he would die at the Battle of Culloden, so Mary hopefully didn't have to put up with him for long. We didn't see the outcome of that infamous clash in Season 2, but given how much the show has focused on Black Jack's twisted relationship with Jamie, we've got to imagine that there'll be some closure for the two on Culloden moor. (In fact, this preview photo from Season 3 guarantees it.) We meet again, Mr. Fraser. Image:  Starz 5. Will we see Murtagh again? Jamie's loyal godfather (and all-around scene-stealer) Murtagh vowed to follow him into battle, come hell or high water — which, given what we know of the Scottish casualties at Culloden, probably didn't end well for our favorite sidekick. Still, if Jamie survived, maybe there's a chance his right-hand man did too? Let me have my delusion for a few more months, okay? 6. What's Claire's relationship with Frank like when she comes back from the past? The Season 2 premiere showed us the immediate aftermath of Claire's return, and Frank was admittedly pretty glad to see her — at least until he discovered that she was pregnant with another man's child. Then he had to go and smash up a potting shed and get a lecture from Reverend Wakefield to get himself back under control — but we don't know much about how he and Claire got along after that. Happy family? Image:  starz Bree made a few vague references to her parents' strained relationship in the Season 2 finale, so it probably wasn't all sunshine and roses before Frank died, but did they manage some semblance of being a normal family, at least for Bree's sake, or were things broken beyond repair after Frank learned that his wife fell in love with another man in the past? 7. How much of Claire's time as a doctor will we see? Claire was born to be a surgeon — between her many wartime experiences in WWII and the 18th century, there's arguably no one better equipped to handle life or death stakes — but will we get to explore her new career path much in Season 3? We're not expecting the show to turn into , or anything, but it would be nice to see her rocking her new job — especially since she's also going to make a new friend, Joe Abernathy , in medical school. 8. Are we going to be obsessed with Lord John Grey? went to the trouble of introducing a young and defiant English soldier, "William" Grey, in Season 2, and the character, aka Lord John William Grey, will return in a bigger capacity in Season 3, all grown up into the strapping form of Australian actor David Berry. We're not mad at it. Image:  starz Starz describes him as "a steadfast and honorable British subject, torn between a finely-honed sense of familial duty and a strong moral compass of right and wrong. He is boyishly handsome with an upper class rearing — the consummate gentleman. However, a scandal from his past has relegated Lord John to an undesirable position as governor of a desolate prison in Northern Scotland." We haven't seen him in action yet, but consider our interest piqued. 9. What are Bree and Roger up to? Obviously, is and will always be Claire and Jamie's story, but we can't help but wonder what their daughter will be doing back in the future while her folks are reconnecting. The show already has a lot of story to get through in 13 episodes, just between the flashbacks to Claire and Jamie's time apart and their post-reunion plotline, so will there be room for Brianna and her scholarly Scot, or will we have to wait until Season 4 to get a real-time update? We can already answer this one: Of course! Scotland's picturesque Highlands and stunning castles have provided the perfect backdrop for the series in its first two seasons — and while Paris was a nice change of scenery last year, the show has a special kind of energy when it's at home. That being said, has already proven that South Africa is an ideal substitute for the Caribbean, and we can't wait to see Claire and Jamie adventuring in tropical climes — here's hoping they packed sunscreen. WATCH: 'Outlander' says farewell to Scotland for Season 3

Because we're not half as good at time travel as Claire Fraser, we won't get to see any new episodes of Outlander until September, which means we have a few empty months in which to occupy ourselves with wild speculation until the droughtlander is officially over.

We've already discussed what we know about Season 3 of Outlander so far, so let's talk about what we don't know, and what we hope to find out when Claire (Caitriona Balfe) and Jamie (Sam Heughan) finally return to our screens.

Of course, if you've read the third novel in Diana Gabaldon's Outlander series, Voyager, you know a lot about what the new season has in store (I'm right there with you) — although that doesn't mean showrunner Ron Moore and his cohorts won't throw in some deviations from the source material, just to keep us on our toes. In the interests of letting non-book fans play along, we're going to pretend that Voyager is not readily available to sate our curiosity, and just go with what we've seen on the show so far.

1. How long will we have to wait for Claire and Jamie's reunion?

Season 2 ended with Claire, now around 50 years old, deciding to go back through the Standing Stones to try and reunite with Jamie after 20 years apart — but we know that Season 3 will feature flashbacks to catch us up with what the duo got up to during those two decades without each other.

Does that mean we might have to wait several episodes before we see Claire travel back in time to seek out Jamie, or will the Season 3 premiere send her back pretty quickly, and fill in the blanks by jumping between time periods, as the Season 2 premiere and finale did? We know it'll be worth the wait whenever it happens, but here's hoping the writers aren't too cruel when it comes to delaying our gratification.

What a nightmare. Image: starz

2. What (or who) does Jamie do in their years apart?

The Season 2 finale revealed that Claire became a surgeon when she returned back to her time, and she obviously had her hands full with Bree (Sophie Skelton) and Frank (Tobias Menzies), but we don't have much intel on what Jamie was doing in the years after Claire left him. Season 3 will undoubtedly fill us in on his sure-to-be thrilling adventures, but what we really want to know is whether Jamie had a relationship with another woman after he said goodbye to Claire. (The thought is so upsetting, I can barely type it.)

Despite being a dashing ginger dreamboat who certainly never lacked attention from the ladies, Jamie was a virgin when he and Claire met, so it would be sweet to think that he swore off other partners after Claire went back to the future. Then again, TV shows thrive on conflict, and there's not much drama to be had if Claire comes back after 20 years to find out that her husband has been a perfect, celibate saint while she's been gone.

Did Jamie fall in love again? (I refuse to even acknowledge the possibility.) Did he have a few casual flings just to take the edge off, believing with absolute certainty that he'd never see his time-traveling wife again? Time will tell, but I'm definitely rooting for the perfect, celibate saint route.

3. How steamy will Season 3 be?

Season 2 featured plenty of political scheming, palace intrigue and bloody battles, but some fans noted that there were far fewer sex scenes than there were in Season 1 — which makes sense, considering that Jamie was dealing with the trauma of being raped and tortured, while Claire was struggling with her growing sense of isolation from her husband as he tried to recover. (Not to mention the devastating loss of their baby.)

But after 20 years separated from their true love, we've got to believe that Claire and Jamie have a lot of lost time to make up for in Season 3. They might have to get to know each other all over again, but all those years of longing will probably add up to some spectacular reunion sex, right?

4. What happened to Black Jack Randall?

When last we saw the sadistic Black Jack (Tobias Menzies), he was reluctantly marrying his brother's lover, Mary Hawkins, in order to secure a future for her and her unborn child (and, handily, for their descendant, Frank Randall). But the history books don't lie: Claire told Jack that he would die at the Battle of Culloden, so Mary hopefully didn't have to put up with him for long.

We didn't see the outcome of that infamous clash in Season 2, but given how much the show has focused on Black Jack's twisted relationship with Jamie, we've got to imagine that there'll be some closure for the two on Culloden moor. (In fact, this preview photo from Season 3 guarantees it.)

We meet again, Mr. Fraser. Image: Starz

5. Will we see Murtagh again?

Jamie's loyal godfather (and all-around scene-stealer) Murtagh vowed to follow him into battle, come hell or high water — which, given what we know of the Scottish casualties at Culloden, probably didn't end well for our favorite sidekick. Still, if Jamie survived, maybe there's a chance his right-hand man did too? Let me have my delusion for a few more months, okay?

6. What's Claire's relationship with Frank like when she comes back from the past?

The Season 2 premiere showed us the immediate aftermath of Claire's return, and Frank was admittedly pretty glad to see her — at least until he discovered that she was pregnant with another man's child. Then he had to go and smash up a potting shed and get a lecture from Reverend Wakefield to get himself back under control — but we don't know much about how he and Claire got along after that.

Happy family? Image: starz

Bree made a few vague references to her parents' strained relationship in the Season 2 finale, so it probably wasn't all sunshine and roses before Frank died, but did they manage some semblance of being a normal family, at least for Bree's sake, or were things broken beyond repair after Frank learned that his wife fell in love with another man in the past?

7. How much of Claire's time as a doctor will we see?

Claire was born to be a surgeon — between her many wartime experiences in WWII and the 18th century, there's arguably no one better equipped to handle life or death stakes — but will we get to explore her new career path much in Season 3? We're not expecting the show to turn into The Knick, or anything, but it would be nice to see her rocking her new job — especially since she's also going to make a new friend, Joe Abernathy, in medical school.

8. Are we going to be obsessed with Lord John Grey?

Outlander went to the trouble of introducing a young and defiant English soldier, "William" Grey, in Season 2, and the character, aka Lord John William Grey, will return in a bigger capacity in Season 3, all grown up into the strapping form of Australian actor David Berry.

We're not mad at it. Image: starz

Starz describes him as "a steadfast and honorable British subject, torn between a finely-honed sense of familial duty and a strong moral compass of right and wrong. He is boyishly handsome with an upper class rearing — the consummate gentleman. However, a scandal from his past has relegated Lord John to an undesirable position as governor of a desolate prison in Northern Scotland."

We haven't seen him in action yet, but consider our interest piqued.

9. What are Bree and Roger up to?

Obviously, Outlander is and will always be Claire and Jamie's story, but we can't help but wonder what their daughter will be doing back in the future while her folks are reconnecting. The show already has a lot of story to get through in 13 episodes, just between the flashbacks to Claire and Jamie's time apart and their post-reunion plotline, so will there be room for Brianna and her scholarly Scot, or will we have to wait until Season 4 to get a real-time update?

10. Will we miss Scotland?

We can already answer this one: Of course! Scotland's picturesque Highlands and stunning castles have provided the perfect backdrop for the series in its first two seasons — and while Paris was a nice change of scenery last year, the show has a special kind of energy when it's at home. That being said, Black Sails has already proven that South Africa is an ideal substitute for the Caribbean, and we can't wait to see Claire and Jamie adventuring in tropical climes — here's hoping they packed sunscreen.