A Nostalgic Shah Rukh Khan Had The Most Adorable Message On Completing 25 Years In Mumbai!
A Nostalgic Shah Rukh Khan Had The Most Adorable Message On Completing 25 Years In Mumbai!
A Nostalgic Shah Rukh Khan Had The Most Adorable Message On Completing 25 Years In Mumbai! Delhi boy Shah Rukh Khan was an ordinary person who had larger-than-life dreams like most of us. SRK started his acting career with the television series Fauji in the late 1980s. He made his debut in movies with Deewana in 1992. And that was just the beginning of a phenomenal journey. Several decades ago, Shah Rukh Khan said that one day he will rule the city of Mumbai and guess what? He indeed is ruling. From films to brand endorsements, SRK's fame and popularity is absolutely magnanimous. One of SRK's iconic dialogue fits perfectly in his own life- "Kisi cheez ko puri shiddat se chaaho, toh puri kaaynat use tumse milaane mein jud jaati hai..." Indiatimes On completing 25 years in the city of Dreams, Mumbai, SRK took to Twitter to write a nostalgic message. Calling Mumbai  “given me my life”, SRK tweeted, 25 yrs in Mumbai, which has given me my life. For the 1st time at the opening of RC vfx new office I felt, I must have done something rite. The 51-year-old actor also took to Twitter on Friday to share another news: Shah Rukh will be attending the 60th San Francisco International Film Festival (SFIFF). SRK added that he is excited to meet his friend filmmaker Brett Ratner. “Honoured to be at at the 60th #SanFrancisco Int Film festival and looking forward to meeting my friend @BrettRatner. Also memories in SanFran,” Shah Rukh tweeted. Kahaani abhi baaki hai mere dost! Keep shining, SRK!

Delhi boy Shah Rukh Khan was an ordinary person who had larger-than-life dreams like most of us. SRK started his acting career with the television series Fauji in the late 1980s. He made his debut in movies with Deewana in 1992.

And that was just the beginning of a phenomenal journey. Several decades ago, Shah Rukh Khan said that one day he will rule the city of Mumbai and guess what? He indeed is ruling. From films to brand endorsements, SRK's fame and popularity is absolutely magnanimous.

One of SRK's iconic dialogue fits perfectly in his own life- "Kisi cheez ko puri shiddat se chaaho, toh puri kaaynat use tumse milaane mein jud jaati hai..."

Indiatimes

On completing 25 years in the city of Dreams, Mumbai, SRK took to Twitter to write a nostalgic message. Calling Mumbai “given me my life”, SRK tweeted,

25 yrs in Mumbai, which has given me my life. For the 1st time at the opening of RC vfx new office I felt, I must have done something rite. — Shah Rukh Khan (@iamsrk) March 30, 2017

The 51-year-old actor also took to Twitter on Friday to share another news: Shah Rukh will be attending the 60th San Francisco International Film Festival (SFIFF).

Pinterest

SRK added that he is excited to meet his friend filmmaker Brett Ratner. “Honoured to be at at the 60th #SanFrancisco Int Film festival and looking forward to meeting my friend @BrettRatner. Also memories in SanFran,” Shah Rukh tweeted.

Kahaani abhi baaki hai mere dost! Keep shining, SRK!

Don't Miss 30 K SHARES 20.7 K SHARES 20.6 K SHARES 16.7 K SHARES 21.9 K SHARES