What happened to our 'Grimm' favorites after the series finale?
What happened to our 'Grimm' favorites after the series finale?
Spoiler warning: This interview contains plot details for the series finale of . After six seasons and 123 episodes, came to a close Friday night. As a fan throughout the show's run, I was sad to see it go, especially since so many other genre shows are wrapping up this season ( ). But is going out at the top of its game. The last two seasons have been stellar, with a good mix of standalone stories and mythology episodes. For the uninitiated, follows Nick Burkhardt, a Portland homicide detective. He discovers he is a Grimm, one of a long line of hunters who fights supernatural creatures, known as Wesen, that are eerily reminiscent of fairy tale creatures. But let's be honest: if you’re reading this, you’re familiar with the show. So let's talk about that series finale. Finales are a hard thing to pull off, and I thought did a nice job. It was a bold move to kill off Hank and Wu - one that I applauded, though I love those characters - but after Renard was killed, I figured this was all a big fake-out. A dream sequence, an alternate reality, or something that would be fixed with magic. All the characters were just dying in too quick a succession. That was cemented by the appearance of Nick's mom, Kelly, and his Aunt Marie (both Grimms; both dead). And of course, Nick came out of the mirror (for real this time) and everyone was just fine. The final battle took place on the "big bad's" home turf. I always appreciate it when finales jump into the future a bit, to let us see where the characters ended up. After all, if we’ve spent years with these characters, it’s only natural to wonder where they end up. Six Feet Under mastered this technique in their finale, showing how the characters died (and, by extension, how they lived) in the same manner that was used throughout the show on inconsequential extras. gave us an epilogue, jumping ahead 20 years, showing Nick's son, Kelly, continuing the tradition of keeping the Grimm diaries going. He works out of a new trailer, with his older sister Diana, and Rosalee and Monroe's triplets, to keep the world safe from rogue Wesen. It didn't seem like left any loose ends. The symbols in the tunnel were a kind of calendar; the stick was part of a bigger staff; the "Other Place" (as Diana termed it) was a kind of alternate universe that was essentially shut down when Nick destroyed the Big Bad. With no loose ends to sort out, I spoke with the show’s creators, Jim Kouf and David Greenwalt, about how the finale came about, the casts' reactions, and the possibility of a spinoff. JK: We had it completely planned out by the end of the sixth season! DG: We had it planned out right before we shot it. We had no idea until the very end. Well, we knew there were certain things that had to happen, but we didn't know specifically. We felt we had answered the keys with the stick, but then we thought we really had to answer that stick - for real. We had a lot of different versions we were playing around with. Eventually we came up with what I think is the best one. I hope! DG: Lesser ideas. They weren't as good as what you saw. JK:  We just tinkered around. We weren't really settled on anything. We just let the characters lead us to where we should go, I think. That seemed like the most logical last episode. DG:  I think it was something like, "Oh my god!" JK: They couldn't believe it. JK: Not in our minds. In other people's minds, it was definitely a possibility. We shot where she felt the strength of being a hexenbiest, all that power. She went from bad to good. But she didn't want to give up that purpose. DG: It wasn't like she was converting; she was coalescing in this last season. In the third to last episode [she and Nick] had a big scene in that other place/dimension, and she spells out that she wouldn't go back if she could. They both did a lot of stuff, good, bad and indifferent. But she was no longer interested in simple happiness. She discovered a purpose in life. Eve found her purpose this season. Image:  nbc JK: If we could figure out how to do it, we would, but you don't know those things until you really figure it out. We hadn't planned, "how do we bring them back," and created the last episode around them. It wasn't that at all. We found a way to incorporate them into the last episode. JK and DG: Yes, that's fair. JK and DG: Yup. DG: Whatever you think happened to them! JK: They all reformed a new kind of family, having fought evil together, I think they all came together with the reality that this war, this battle, will continue and they will fight it together. DG: And whatever you think happened! It's supposed to live on in your mind! You the viewer. But it's quite probably true that they are all out there, fighting the good fight. DG: No, that would have been too much. JK: And the reality of our time... We only have 42 minutes or so of broadcast time. There were other things we wanted to do, but there just wasn't enough time. DG: Were we going to age everybody up 20 years? It just doesn't make any sense. JK: We've always given thought to that. It's really up to NBC. DG: There could be. You never know. That Trubel character came on a little late in the game, with the idea of her maybe having her own spin-off with some of our regulars someday. You just never know. JK: They've been amazing. They've been very supportive and pretty much let us do what we wanted to do. They loved the show, I think. DG: They've had a lot of affection for the show, and a lot of interest in the show. They've made quite a few pretty darn good suggestions over the years, right up to and including the finale. We had a great working relationship with them. I believe they were always going to say, "This will be the last season." They kind of hemmed and hawed a little bit at this last one, but they came through in time so that we could prepare a path in these last episodes, allowing us to wrap it up, but not killing it. We'll miss this face. Image:  NBC JK:  I think the last three are pretty strong, how we wrapped everything up and how we explained everything that we brought to light throughout the series. I think all the episodes came together really well this year. DG: It was a very strong season this year. We had great stand alone and great arc stories. Every year had its own personality. The end of every season always had some big bang. We had to have the biggest bang yet on this one. It was fun. A challenge, but fun. DG: I don't think so. What do you think, Jim? JK: I think we got about every one we wanted to in, then we got a lot more in that we didn't know we could tell. We could have found more had they given us more episodes. But I think we got all the ones we wanted to. DG: We got all the big, famous Grimm Fairy Tales, then myths and legends from all over the world. Thank goodness the Brothers Grimm wrote 200-and-change fairy tales, only about nine of them had you ever heard of. We just went everywhere. Japan, Africa, Philippines, Europe of course, South America, Mexico, Spain... you name it. It was fun to find the legends and fairy tales in all different kinds of cultures. JK: It was definitely very emotional. Every time one of the actors had their final scene, or their death scene, pretty much everyone gave a speech, thanking the crew and thanking everyone. It was a big deal. It was quite nice. DG: It was very moving. As each actor came to her or his final scene in the shooting schedule, which would mean they would be saying goodbye, everyone gave a very beautiful, moving speech. It was a very special, family situation with us and the actors and the crew and Portland. We brought a lot of income and creativity to Portland. It was pretty amazing. JK: We've got a couple projects we are going to take out to pitch. DG: We have a few irons in the fire. We're also... we just finished 123 episodes of a show. We are definitely getting a little R&R at the same time. JK: We can do both! Oh god, we need some sleep! DG: We just want to say what a great run it was, and we want to make sure we thank the fans. There are no fans like fans. They kept us on the air all these years, and allowed us to create this whole, bizarre, strange world that still oddly reflects the real world. So, thank you fans! WATCH: The top 10 freakiest movie monsters of all time

Spoiler warning: This interview contains plot details for the series finale of Grimm.

After six seasons and 123 episodes, Grimm came to a close Friday night. As a fan throughout the show's run, I was sad to see it go, especially since so many other genre shows are wrapping up this season (The Vampire Diaries, Bates Motel, Teen Wolf). But Grimm is going out at the top of its game. The last two seasons have been stellar, with a good mix of standalone stories and mythology episodes.

For the uninitiated, Grimm follows Nick Burkhardt, a Portland homicide detective. He discovers he is a Grimm, one of a long line of hunters who fights supernatural creatures, known as Wesen, that are eerily reminiscent of fairy tale creatures. But let's be honest: if you’re reading this, you’re familiar with the show. So let's talk about that series finale.

Finales are a hard thing to pull off, and I thought Grimm did a nice job. It was a bold move to kill off Hank and Wu - one that I applauded, though I love those characters - but after Renard was killed, I figured this was all a big fake-out. A dream sequence, an alternate reality, or something that would be fixed with magic. All the characters were just dying in too quick a succession. That was cemented by the appearance of Nick's mom, Kelly, and his Aunt Marie (both Grimms; both dead). And of course, Nick came out of the mirror (for real this time) and everyone was just fine. The final battle took place on the "big bad's" home turf.

I always appreciate it when finales jump into the future a bit, to let us see where the characters ended up. After all, if we’ve spent years with these characters, it’s only natural to wonder where they end up. Six Feet Under mastered this technique in their finale, showing how the characters died (and, by extension, how they lived) in the same manner that was used throughout the show on inconsequential extras.

Grimm gave us an epilogue, jumping ahead 20 years, showing Nick's son, Kelly, continuing the tradition of keeping the Grimm diaries going. He works out of a new trailer, with his older sister Diana, and Rosalee and Monroe's triplets, to keep the world safe from rogue Wesen.

It didn't seem like Grimm left any loose ends. The symbols in the tunnel were a kind of calendar; the stick was part of a bigger staff; the "Other Place" (as Diana termed it) was a kind of alternate universe that was essentially shut down when Nick destroyed the Big Bad. With no loose ends to sort out, I spoke with the show’s creators, Jim Kouf and David Greenwalt, about how the finale came about, the casts' reactions, and the possibility of a spinoff.

How far in advance did you have the finale planned?

JK: We had it completely planned out by the end of the sixth season!

DG: We had it planned out right before we shot it. We had no idea until the very end. Well, we knew there were certain things that had to happen, but we didn't know specifically. We felt we had answered the keys with the stick, but then we thought we really had to answer that stick - for real. We had a lot of different versions we were playing around with. Eventually we came up with what I think is the best one. I hope!

What were some of the other ideas you considered?

DG: Lesser ideas. They weren't as good as what you saw.

JK: We just tinkered around. We weren't really settled on anything. We just let the characters lead us to where we should go, I think. That seemed like the most logical last episode.

What was the cast's reactions when they first read their death scene?

DG: I think it was something like, "Oh my god!"

JK: They couldn't believe it.

Throughout this last season it kind of felt like Eve was switching back into Juliette mode, and that at some point she was going to proclaim her love to Nick, and try to get him back. Was that ever a possibility?

JK: Not in our minds. In other people's minds, it was definitely a possibility. We shot where she felt the strength of being a hexenbiest, all that power. She went from bad to good. But she didn't want to give up that purpose.

DG: It wasn't like she was converting; she was coalescing in this last season. In the third to last episode [she and Nick] had a big scene in that other place/dimension, and she spells out that she wouldn't go back if she could. They both did a lot of stuff, good, bad and indifferent. But she was no longer interested in simple happiness. She discovered a purpose in life.

Eve found her purpose this season. Image: nbc

Did you always want to bring Aunt Marie and Kelly Burkhardt back for the finale?

JK: If we could figure out how to do it, we would, but you don't know those things until you really figure it out. We hadn't planned, "how do we bring them back," and created the last episode around them. It wasn't that at all. We found a way to incorporate them into the last episode.

At the end of the final episode, we get the sense that Nick and Adalind are still together. Is that fair?

JK and DG: Yes, that's fair.

And obviously Monroe and Rosalee had the triplets, and are - hopefully - still together.

JK and DG: Yup.

What happened with some of our other characters? What happened with Renard and Eve and Trubel?

DG: Whatever you think happened to them!

JK: They all reformed a new kind of family, having fought evil together, I think they all came together with the reality that this war, this battle, will continue and they will fight it together.

DG: And whatever you think happened! It's supposed to live on in your mind! You the viewer. But it's quite probably true that they are all out there, fighting the good fight.

Was there ever any discussion or consideration of incorporating them into the epilogue?

DG: No, that would have been too much.

JK: And the reality of our time... We only have 42 minutes or so of broadcast time. There were other things we wanted to do, but there just wasn't enough time.

DG: Were we going to age everybody up 20 years? It just doesn't make any sense.

Have you given any thought to possible spinoff series or projects?

JK: We've always given thought to that. It's really up to NBC.

DG: There could be. You never know. That Trubel character came on a little late in the game, with the idea of her maybe having her own spin-off with some of our regulars someday. You just never know.

It seems like NBC has been very supportive of the show throughout. There has always been a big promotional push, and they gave you guys a chance to finish out the show on your own terms. Can you talk a little bit about the relationship with NBC?

JK: They've been amazing. They've been very supportive and pretty much let us do what we wanted to do. They loved the show, I think.

DG: They've had a lot of affection for the show, and a lot of interest in the show. They've made quite a few pretty darn good suggestions over the years, right up to and including the finale. We had a great working relationship with them. I believe they were always going to say, "This will be the last season." They kind of hemmed and hawed a little bit at this last one, but they came through in time so that we could prepare a path in these last episodes, allowing us to wrap it up, but not killing it.

We'll miss this face. Image: NBC

Do you guys have any favorite episodes through the series that you are particularly proud of?

JK: I think the last three are pretty strong, how we wrapped everything up and how we explained everything that we brought to light throughout the series. I think all the episodes came together really well this year.

DG: It was a very strong season this year. We had great stand alone and great arc stories. Every year had its own personality. The end of every season always had some big bang. We had to have the biggest bang yet on this one. It was fun. A challenge, but fun.

Were there any mythologies or Wesen that you wanted to do episodes on, but didn't get a chance?

DG: I don't think so. What do you think, Jim?

JK: I think we got about every one we wanted to in, then we got a lot more in that we didn't know we could tell. We could have found more had they given us more episodes. But I think we got all the ones we wanted to.

DG: We got all the big, famous Grimm Fairy Tales, then myths and legends from all over the world. Thank goodness the Brothers Grimm wrote 200-and-change fairy tales, only about nine of them had you ever heard of. We just went everywhere. Japan, Africa, Philippines, Europe of course, South America, Mexico, Spain... you name it. It was fun to find the legends and fairy tales in all different kinds of cultures.

Can you talk a little bit about the last day on set for all the actors?

JK: It was definitely very emotional. Every time one of the actors had their final scene, or their death scene, pretty much everyone gave a speech, thanking the crew and thanking everyone. It was a big deal. It was quite nice.

DG: It was very moving. As each actor came to her or his final scene in the shooting schedule, which would mean they would be saying goodbye, everyone gave a very beautiful, moving speech. It was a very special, family situation with us and the actors and the crew and Portland. We brought a lot of income and creativity to Portland. It was pretty amazing.

Are you guys working on anything else now?

JK: We've got a couple projects we are going to take out to pitch.

DG: We have a few irons in the fire. We're also... we just finished 123 episodes of a show. We are definitely getting a little R&R at the same time.

JK: We can do both! Oh god, we need some sleep!

Do you have anything else you want to share?

DG: We just want to say what a great run it was, and we want to make sure we thank the fans. There are no fans like Grimm fans. They kept us on the air all these years, and allowed us to create this whole, bizarre, strange world that still oddly reflects the real world. So, thank you fans!