Tiger Woods: Masters too early for four-time champion's return

Tiger Woods: Masters too early for four-time champion's return     Share this with   Digg    Facebook    Google    LinkedIn    Reddit    StumbleUpon    Twitter  Four-time champion Tiger Woods has confirmed he will not be fit for next week's Masters and has not put a timetable on his return. The American, 41, winner of 14 majors, has not played since withdrawing from the Dubai Desert Classic on 3 February with ongoing back spasms. This year marks the 20th anniversary of his first Masters win and he said: "I did about everything I could to play." Woods also missed the 2014 and 2016 Masters tournaments because of injury. He won the last of his 14 major titles at the US Open in June 2008 and has since had surgery on his knee and back. FEATURE: Tiger's Augusta triumph to troubles 20 years on PODCAST: Listen to "Tiger's Masterclass" After an absence of 17 months, he returned to action in December but missed the cut at the Farmers Insurance Open in January after shooting rounds of 76 and 72. "My back rehabilitation didn't allow me the time to get tournament ready," Woods said in a statement on his website. "I'm especially upset because it's a special anniversary for me that's filled with a lot of great memories. "I have no timetable for my return, but I will continue my diligent effort to recover, and want to get back out there as soon as possible." Woods said he would still be at Augusta National's clubhouse on Tuesday for the annual Champions Dinner ahead of the year's opening major, which starts on Thursday. Share this with   Digg    Facebook    Google    LinkedIn    Reddit    StumbleUpon    Twitter  Find out more   Tiger Woods     PGA Tour     European Tour    Aberdeen thump Dundee 7-0 to delay Celtic celebrations       Federer beats Kyrgios in thriller - faces Nadal in final       Koeman a 'master tactician of the blame game' - Republic of Ireland boss O'Neill

Woods won the last of his four Masters titles in 2005

The Masters, Augusta, 6-9 April Coverage: Watch highlights of the first two days before live and uninterrupted coverage of the weekend's action on BBC Two and up to four live streams available online. Listen on BBC Radio 5 live and BBC Radio 5 live sports extra. Read live text commentary, analysis and social media on the BBC Sport website and the sport app. Full details here.

Four-time champion Tiger Woods has confirmed he will not be fit for next week's Masters and has not put a timetable on his return.

The American, 41, winner of 14 majors, has not played since withdrawing from the Dubai Desert Classic on 3 February with ongoing back spasms.

This year marks the 20th anniversary of his first Masters win and he said: "I did about everything I could to play."

Woods also missed the 2014 and 2016 Masters tournaments because of injury.

He won the last of his 14 major titles at the US Open in June 2008 and has since had surgery on his knee and back.

After an absence of 17 months, he returned to action in December but missed the cut at the Farmers Insurance Open in January after shooting rounds of 76 and 72.

"My back rehabilitation didn't allow me the time to get tournament ready," Woods said in a statement on his website.

"I'm especially upset because it's a special anniversary for me that's filled with a lot of great memories.

Inspired to try golf? Find out how to get into golf with our special guide.

"I have no timetable for my return, but I will continue my diligent effort to recover, and want to get back out there as soon as possible."

Woods said he would still be at Augusta National's clubhouse on Tuesday for the annual Champions Dinner ahead of the year's opening major, which starts on Thursday.