8 Brilliant Philosophers Who Taught Us A Great Deal About Life
8 Brilliant Philosophers Who Taught Us A Great Deal About Life
8 Brilliant Philosophers Who Taught Us A Great Deal About Life Every morning we wake up to a dozen quotes that’ll get you through the day. Philosophical quotes by generally well-known personalities serve as fresh inspiration, and all of a sudden, after digesting few pearls of wisdom, you feel there is renewed purpose in life! These aren’t just unfounded, lifeless words. They carry the meaning of life and experiences. We are reminded that everyone has their set of challenges and dirty dishes to clean. We also learn of certain truths our existence in the ever-changing journey called life. Philosophy is a discipline that has arisen from “wisdom” that an individual collects in their lifetime. By that definition, over the years many of us have become philosophers and are partial to our individual philosophies. Philosophy is concerned with the morality of our behaviour and actions; plumbing the depths of human emotions, values and existence lies at the heart of this discipline. A philosopher is also a thinker, with insatiable curiosity about everything! The philosophers on this list were regarded as respectable, high-thinking men. Their ideas and theories have travelled across countless generations, and are still potent enough to influence minds. 1. Aristotle nature, 2. Plato Contrary to Aristotle, Plato found imperfections in everything. He surmised that the human soul divided into many parts because of which, many of us face psychological issues. The key to living a wholesome life is to balance these parts, so that one make desirable choices in life. 3. Chanakya Chanakya is well-remembered even today for his brilliant written works, namely, Arthshastra and  Neetishastra (Chanakya Neeti). He masterminded Chandragupta Maurya’s ascent to throne in the Mauryan empire. Apart from this, he was a teacher, political advisor and economist.

Every morning we wake up to a dozen quotes that’ll get you through the day. Philosophical quotes by generally well-known personalities serve as fresh inspiration, and all of a sudden, after digesting few pearls of wisdom, you feel there is renewed purpose in life! These aren’t just unfounded, lifeless words. They carry the meaning of life and experiences. We are reminded that everyone has their set of challenges and dirty dishes to clean. We also learn of certain truths our existence in the ever-changing journey called life. Philosophy is a discipline that has arisen from “wisdom” that an individual collects in their lifetime. By that definition, over the years many of us have become philosophers and are partial to our individual philosophies.

Philosophy is concerned with the morality of our behaviour and actions; plumbing the depths of human emotions, values and existence lies at the heart of this discipline. A philosopher is also a thinker, with insatiable curiosity about everything!

The philosophers on this list were regarded as respectable, high-thinking men. Their ideas and theories have travelled across countless generations, and are still potent enough to influence minds.

1. Aristotle

Hellenic News of America

Aristotle believed that perfection is achievable when a thing does whatever is intrinsic to its nature. Staying connected with nature, brings out the best in an individual. Good actions and regular exercise can promote health and vitality in you.

It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it.

I count him braver who overcomes his desires than him who conquers his enemies; for the hardest victory is over self.

- Aristotle

2. Plato

Imaginative Conservative

Contrary to Aristotle, Plato found imperfections in everything. He surmised that the human soul divided into many parts because of which, many of us face psychological issues. The key to living a wholesome life is to balance these parts, so that one make desirable choices in life.

Be kind, for everyone you meet is fighting a hard battle.

You can discover more about a person in an hour of play than in a year of conversation.

One of the penalties for refusing to participate in politics is that you end up being governed by your inferiors.

At the touch of love, everyone becomes a poet.

- Plato

3. Chanakya

speaking tree

Chanakya is well-remembered even today for his brilliant written works, namely, Arthshastra and Neetishastra (Chanakya Neeti). He masterminded Chandragupta Maurya’s ascent to throne in the Mauryan empire. Apart from this, he was a teacher, political advisor and economist.

Don't Miss 6 K SHARES 1.2 K SHARES 379 SHARES 279 SHARES 11.1 K SHARES

Once you start a working on something, don't be afraid of failure and don't abandon it. People who work sincerely are the happiest.

God is not present in idols. Your feelings are your god. The soul is your temple.

- Chanakya

4. Spinoza

3 AM Magazine

Spinoza relied on theories of geometry to build his philosophy around God. According to his beliefs, God existed both in the physical and spiritual world.

The world would be happier if men had the same capacity to be silent that they have to speak.

I have striven not to laugh at human actions, not to weep at them, nor to hate them, but to understand them.

- Spinoza

5. Kant

the bully pulpit

Immanuel Kant was keen on exploring the relationship between God and religious faith. He realised towards the end of his philosophical journey, that God’s presence in our lives is more immanent than transcendent.

Morality is not properly the doctrine of how we may make ourselves happy, but how we may make ourselves worthy of happiness.

Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions without concepts are blind.

By a lie, a man... annihilates his dignity as a man.

- Kant

6. Herbert Spencer

evolution tale

Spencer examined theories of evolution and these to philosophy. This resulted in a new branch of philosophy called Synthetic Philosophy.

The great aim of education is not knowledge but action.

How often misused words generate misleading thoughts.

- Spencer

7. Bertrand Russell

vishwagujarat.com

Russell studied morality, mind, matter and mathematical numbers, and marked the advent of analytic philosophy.

"A habit of finding pleasure in thought rather than action is a safeguard against unwisdom and excessive love of power, a means of preserving serenity in misfortune and peace of mind among worries. A life confined to what is personal is likely, sooner or later, to become unbearably painful; it is only by windows into a larger and less fretful cosmos that the more tragic parts of life become endurable.” - In praise of Idleness, Bertrand Russell

8. Osho

realization.org

Rajneesh, best known as Osho, created a revolutionary spiritual movement in the '90s. His teachings focused on the importance of love, meditation, creativity and humor; aspects of life that are sometimes underrated.

“Love knows no boundaries. Love cannot be jealous, because love cannot possess. It is ugly, the very idea that you possess somebody because you love. You possess somebody – it means you have killed somebody and turned him into a commodity. Only things can be possessed. Love gives freedom. Love is freedom.”

“That is the simple secret of happiness. Whatever you are doing, don’t let past move your mind; don’t let future disturb you. Because the past is no more, and the future is not yet. To live in the memories, to live in the imagination, is to live in the non-existential.

- Osho