The world's priciest holiday villas
Feast your eyes at the world's priciest holiday villas 


From lakeside palaces with gold-plated pools to floating villas with underwater bedrooms, there are some spectacular holiday villas out there if you can afford to splash out thousands of pounds a day.

Here we take a look at the holiday villas where the rich and famous enjoy their down time.

Chill out at Leo DiCaprio’s bachelor pad

Palm Springs, California, £25,000 a week

You can drink to the health of your host — none other than film star Leonardo DiCaprio — at this Sixties-style cocktail bar if you rent this retro house in Palm Springs for your summer holiday

The actor is believed to have bought the six-bedroom compound — built in 1964, with pool, flood-lit tennis court, spa and sauna — three years ago

You can drink to the health of your host — none other than film star Leonardo DiCaprio — at a Sixties-style cocktail bar if you rent this retro house in Palm Springs for your summer holiday.

The actor is believed to have bought the six-bedroom compound — built in 1964, with pool, flood-lit tennis court, spa and sauna — three years ago for around $5.32 million.

However, it appears the star is yet to live there.

Instead he is reportedly raking in the huge rent from the property which is well situated for holiday breaks in Las Vegas or the annual Coachella music festival.

At your service, two butlers in a boat

The Private Reserve, Maldives, £72,000 a week

A speedboat will take you to this villa, on a private platform over the crystal-clear ocean and coral reef

On arrival at this two-storey villa standing in the Indian Ocean, a personal masseur will give you a massage to assuage any jet lag.

A speedboat will take you to the villa, on a private platform over the crystal-clear ocean and coral reef, with two butlers who will be at your beck and call.

A water slide sweeps down from the top floor into the calm water and the vast living room has a glass bottom to watch fish dart about in the coral gardens under the villa.

There’s also room for a sauna, steam room, gym, cinema and even a library.

Wake up in rock god Mick Jagger’s bedroom

Stargroves, Mustique, £29,000 to £30,000 a week

Not many holidays come with a guarantee that you will end up in the bed of a rock god but, for £30,000 a week, this one does

At Stargroves on the Caribbean island of Mustique, you’ll be staying in the holiday villa Sir Mick Jagger built for his family back in 1983

Not many holidays come with a guarantee that you will end up in the bed of a rock god.

But at Stargroves on the Caribbean island of Mustique, you’ll be staying in the holiday villa Sir Mick Jagger built for his family back in 1983.

It has seven pavilions, arranged around a 25ft swimming pool and patio, with a separate children’s cottage.

Staff include a butler, two gardeners and a chef specialising in French and Moroccan cuisine. But there are a few rock star touches, including a grand piano, flamingo-pink billiard table and a 4x4 for cruising around the island.

Honeymoon like the Clooneys

Villa 11, North Island, Seychelles, £52,000 a week

North Island’s exceptional privacy (left) has seen it picked by some of the world’s most photographed couples, including Prince William and the Duchess of Cambridge, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, and Amal and George Clooney (right)

Prepare for some true holiday envy. Only honeymooners are allowed here.

North Island’s exceptional privacy has seen it picked by some of the world’s most photographed couples, including Prince William and the Duchess of Cambridge, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, and Amal and George Clooney.

The most sumptuous house is Villa 11, a bungalow with an open-air marble bath for two, cinema and yoga pavilion.

It boasts a spectacular ocean view and your own chef to cook whatever you want.

An underwater bedroom for deep sleep

Floating villa, Manta Resort, Tanzania, £8,500 a week.

The bottom tier of this structure, 250 metres from the shore, is 13ft under the Indian Ocean and gives a 360-degree view of the local sea life

You can enjoy a real sea view in the underwater bedroom of this floating villa.

The bottom tier of this structure, 250 metres from the shore, is 13ft under the Indian Ocean and gives a 360-degree view of the local sea life, including regular visitors such as a trumpet fish called Nick.

Although this is a relative budget option compared with other high-end villas, you’ll still find all the luxuries you’d expect on dry land, including a fully stocked bar. There’s even an open-air bed on the roof terrace for a change of scenery.

Two miles of island, all yours

Tajima Island, Japan £23,000 a week

This traditional Japanese house, with seven bedrooms and four bathrooms, also boasts open air bathtubs for stargazing

For a bird’s eye view of your accommodation, take the zip wire over your two-square-mile private island.

There’s a lighthouse to watch the ocean at this hideaway off the coast of Japan.

The traditional Japanese house, with seven bedrooms and four bathrooms, also boasts open air bathtubs for stargazing.

There are stretches of empty beaches and lots of kayaks in which to explore the surrounding waters.

Eco-luxury loved by Gwynnie

Punta Mita, Mexico, up to £75,000 a week

Actress Gwyneth Paltrow is a fan of this six-bedroom, seven-bathroom villa in Punta Mita, Mexico

Actress Gwyneth Paltrow marked her January visit to this six-bedroom, seven-bathroom villa with the words: ‘What a beautiful trip.’

And what a luxurious one. The price includes on-site chef, infinity pools, yoga room and cinema.

Gwyneth probably appreciated the villa’s eco-friendly credentials, too; it was built from ‘native wood’ and ‘natural rock’, and meals are made mainly with local ingredients.

Parrots that’ll pick up your litter

Musha Cay, Bahamas, £217,000 a week

A visit to the main 12-bedroom house is like the set of Dr Dolittle. A troop of monkeys has been taught to draw guests’ portraits and parrots are reportedly trained to swoop in and pick up litter

You can expect a few magical touches on Musha Cay, the private island owned by illusionist David Copperfield.

A visit to the main 12-bedroom house is like the set of Dr Dolittle. A troop of monkeys has been taught to draw guests’ portraits — or so the resort’s website claims — and parrots are reportedly trained to swoop in and pick up litter.

There’s a drive-in beach cinema and the 30-strong staff can lay on personal firework displays and pirate treasure hunts that stretch across all 11 islands owned by Copperfield.

Penelope Cruz chose the private location for her wedding to Javier Bardem in 2010, and past guests include Oprah Winfrey, Bill Gates and Johnny Depp.

The lakeside palace with a gold-plated pool

Villa La Cassinella, Lake Como, Italy, £140,000 a week

Villa La Cassinella on Lake Como, Italyis so rarefied that it can be reached only by water or helicopter

The palatial Villa La Cassinella is so rarefied that it can be reached only by water or helicopter.

As well as a view of the lake from every window, the extensive gardens include a heated infinity pool decorated with 22-carat gold tiles.

A huge retinue of staff includes a private yoga teacher, masseuse, beautician, tennis coach, personal shopper and professional dance tutor.

Meanwhile, your neighbours will include Donatella Versace and George and Amal Clooney.