Book reveals the best positions for curvy women
Book reveals the best positions for curvy (and even pregnant) women


If you think generous curves are incompatible with a good sex life, think again.

In her new book, Curvy Girl Sex, self-professed body acceptance activist and sex educator Elle Chase, from LA, reveals the best sex positions for plus-sized women - and there's no shortage of ideas.

The illustrated guide includes includes a total of 101 sex positions from basic to advanced for all types of curvy (even pregnant) bodies, gender expressions and sexual orientations.

'I wrote Curvy Girl Sex to give larger women a resource for better, more satisfying sex with tips, advice and recommendations made specifically for women with bellies, butts, big breasts and all,' Elle told Femail.

'Curvy women are underserved in so many areas - especially when it comes to sex - and we are often desexualised by a society that, for one reason or another, doesn't like to associate "sexy" with bigger body shapes.

'I wanted to write a book that not only celebrates our innate sexuality and sexiness, but also gives permission to explore apologetically and feel excited and supported doing it.'

Here, Elle guides you through five positions for the larger lady

Body acceptance activist and sex educator Elle Chase from LA has written a sex positions guide for curvy women

HUGGING THE CURVES

This position is suitable for pregnant women as well as women with a larger waistline and bigger thighs. It's also easy on the knees.

Beginning in traditional missionary, wrap your legs around the giver; your feet may even touch or you could rest against his lower back.

Elle says: ' There are many possible varieties of Hugging the Curves.





For gals with larger butts, leading the back up on the headboard a bit and/or elevating the torso with pillows slightly will allow the giver to thrust while using his hands to stabilise himself against the wall or headboard.'

Hugging the Curves: The missionary position with legs wrapped around the giver is suitable for pregnant women as well as women with a larger waistline and bigger thighs

THE ROCKING HORSE

In this advanced position, the giver kneels and sits back on his legs. With her back to him, the receiver straddles his thighs, bending her knees so that her legs are alongside his, and lowers herself down onto his penis.

The giver can then use his hips to thrust inside her, and get even closer and deeper by bending his torso over her and holding on to her shoulders as he thrusts, thus 'riding' her like a rocking horse.

Elle says: 'To make room for large tummies, he can spread his knees apart, or hold on to her thighs and sit up before thrusting.'

The rocking horse: In this advanced position, kneels while the receiver straddles his thighs, bending her knees so that her legs are alongside his, and lowers herself on to his penis

THE JOCKEY

The giver sits up on the bed, with his back against the wall or headboard and legs straight out in front of him.

Facing away from him, the receiver straddles his hips and knees with legs astride him, and then slides him into her.

Elle says: 'With your back to your partner, a bigger tummy won't be in the way and he gets to enjoy the view from behind.'

The Jockey: While facing away from him, the receiver straddles the giver's hips and knees with legs astride him

THE OHM

The receiver begins by lying on her back and raising her legs in the air at a 90-degree angle. The giver sidles up to kneel right behind her, holding her legs close to his chest and lining up his pelvis with her vulva as he enters.

Elle says: 'This is my favourite position because of all the ways it can be customised. For instance, if you both have a big belly, you'll be happy to know that this position is for you!

'Because the giver is entering from behind, the receiver barely has to move her tummy away from the action, unless it is to make her feel more comfortable or to readjust where her tummy and thighs meet. The giver can also bend the receiver's legs toward her torso more if his belly is challenging.'

The Ohm position involves entering from behind so the tummy can be kept out of the way

THE Z

The giver kneels and sits back on his legs.

Facing him, the receiver straddles his lap as she sits, then lies back with her butt and lower back supported by his thighs while she raises her legs in the air.

The giver holds her legs, resting each one of her ankles on his shoulders, or holding them together in the air.

In the Z position, the receiver straddlers the giver's lap and lies back supported on his thighs with her ankles resting on his shoulders

Elle says: 'Another great variation to The Z is that instead of the receiver placing her ankles on his shoulders, she keeps her straight legs in the air, forming a V.

'The giver then uses his hands on her inner thighs to gently widen the V as he enters her.

'This is a terrific hack if those big, beautiful thighs are making this position a challenge, or if the giver likes to watch penetration - or his partner - during the throes of passion.'