White House to be colored blue Sunday for autism awareness
White House to be colored blue Sunday for autism awareness
Shares                The White House will briefly become the "blue house" on Sunday to mark World Autism Awareness Day. Spokesman Sean Spicer says President Donald Trump is keeping a promise to the late wife of his friend Bob Wright that he would illuminate the White House in blue if he won the election. Bob Wright and his wife, Suzanne, founded the advocacy group Autism Speaks in 2005. The organization uses the color blue in its logo. Suzanne Wright died in 2016. Spicer says it's in honor of the Wrights that the White House on Sunday will help draw attention to a "great cause." Shares                  White House to be colored blue Sunday for autism awareness   Formerly Conjoined Twins Get Send-Off at Hospital Where They Were Separated   CDC Issues New Vaccine Guidelines for Adults   Facebook Post Helps Toddler Get Kidney From Parents' Former HS Classmate   Flu Takes a Toll in NYC, With 4 Children Reported Dead   Mumps Outbreak Reaches 367 Cases in Washington State   Girl Surprised With Super Bowl Tickets After Being Treated for Rare Cancer   In Chicago, Witnesses to Violence Turn to First Aid to Save Lives   6-Year-Old Girls Link Intelligence to Men Over Women, Study Says   Avian Flu Outbreaks Raise Concerns About Possible Pandemic   Seoul Virus Spread by Pet Rats Under Investigation in Multiple States   Teacher Aide Accused of Faking Cancer to Hide Criminal Past   More Chronically Ill Patients Have Health Insurance After ACA, Study Finds   11-Year-Old Boy Is One of the Youngest to Get Artificial Heart   Nunes met by about 300 protesters upon returning to his district   White House allowing public to request financials for senior staff   UConn's 111-game winning streak ends, Miss St wins at buzzer   Intel suggests terrorists got airport screening equipment   Barbershop finds success in out-of-the-box idea to get kids reading   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   7-year-old basketball star gets a special surprise from Harlem Globetrotters   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   Teacher raises $80K for bikes for elementary school's entire student body   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service

The White House will briefly become the "blue house" on Sunday to mark World Autism Awareness Day.

Spokesman Sean Spicer says President Donald Trump is keeping a promise to the late wife of his friend Bob Wright that he would illuminate the White House in blue if he won the election.

Bob Wright and his wife, Suzanne, founded the advocacy group Autism Speaks in 2005. The organization uses the color blue in its logo.

Suzanne Wright died in 2016.

Spicer says it's in honor of the Wrights that the White House on Sunday will help draw attention to a "great cause."