Homeless man accused of murdering mother and son at family's Stourbridge home remanded in custody
Homeless man accused of murdering mother and son at family's Stourbridge home remanded in custody
homeless man accused of murdering a woman and her 13-year-old son has been remanded in custody by magistrates. Aaron Barley, 23, was flanked by two dock officers wearing protective helmets with the visors down as he appeared before two magistrates in Birmingham. arley, who had his right arm in a sling, is charged with killing Tracey Wilkinson and her son Pierce,  and faces a further charge of attempting to murder the boy's 47-year-old father, Peter, at the family's home in Stourbridge. The alleged double-killer, wearing a green hospital-style gown, spoke only once during a six-minute hearing at Birmingham Magistrates' Court after the court clerk asked him to give his name and address. Barley told the clerk: "Aaron Barley, and I ain't got one (an address)." uring the hearing, Barley, who was remanded to appear at Birmingham Crown Court on Monday, was handcuffed to one of the dock officers, who were both wearing blue gloves. There was no application for bail on behalf of Barley, who was not asked to enter pleas and appeared to hobble as he left the courtroom. Mrs Wilkinson, 50, was pronounced dead at her home in Greyhound Lane, Stourbridge, after suffering stab injuries, while her son was pronounced dead after being taken to hospital. They were found injured when emergency services attended their home at about 8am on Thursday. Shocked locals described the family as "Good Samaritans with hearts of gold" who had opened their home to a homeless person around Christmas. Well-wishers have continued to leave floral tributes outside the family home on leafy Greyhound Lane. ne poignant tribute read: "To my mate Tracey. Only the good die young. I'm going to miss you so very much. I can't believe your act of kindness had ended this way. Love you sweetheart, from Jo x x x x"

During the hearing, Barley, who was remanded to appear at Birmingham Crown Court on Monday, was handcuffed to one of the dock officers, who were both wearing blue gloves.

There was no application for bail on behalf of Barley, who was not asked to enter pleas and appeared to hobble as he left the courtroom.

Mrs Wilkinson, 50, was pronounced dead at her home in Greyhound Lane, Stourbridge, after suffering stab injuries, while her son was pronounced dead after being taken to hospital.

They were found injured when emergency services attended their home at about 8am on Thursday.

Shocked locals described the family as "Good Samaritans with hearts of gold" who had opened their home to a homeless person around Christmas.

Well-wishers have continued to leave floral tributes outside the family home on leafy Greyhound Lane.