Liquor Shops Along Highways Shut, Indian Student Assaulted In Poland And Other Must Read Stories
Liquor Shops Along Highways Shut, Indian Student Assaulted In Poland + Other Must Read Stories
Liquor Shops Along Highways Shut, Indian Student Assaulted In Poland And Other Must Read Stories Hundreds of pubs, bars and liquor store situated along national and state highways have been forced to shut down from Saturday after the Supreme court refused to stay its order in this regard. The apex court had in December 2016 ruled that all liquor outlets within 500 metres of state and national highways across the country should be closed. The court had cited these outlets as the reason behind the rise in road accidents. Read more 1. Swarajya Bhoomi Trust Wants To Convert Jinnah House Into Bal Gangadhar Tilak Memorial A day after Pakistan demanded India to hand over the possession of the Jinnah House in Malabar Hill, the Lokmanya Tilak Swarajya Bhoomi Trust has staked a claim for the property for creating a memorial depicting the legacy of Tilak. In a statement, founder president of the trust, Prakash Silam said it had written to the Public Works Department on January 29, 2016, that the Jinnah House premises be handed over to it. Read more 2. China Warns India Against Dalai Lama's Visit To Arunachal, Calls It A 'Big Mistake' Unable to block the upcoming visit of the Dalai Lama to Arunachal Pradesh, China is now emphasising that India is committing a major mistake in allowing him to visit the border state. "This will have serious damage on bilateral relations (sic)," Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Lu Kang warned. Read more 3. Sushma Swaraj Seeks Report After Indian Student Survives 'Racial Attack' In Poland External Affairs minister Sushma Swaraj has sought a report on an alleged racial attack on an Indian student in Polish city of Pozan. This comes after a twitter user reached out to Swaraj claiming that the student had succumbed to his injuries. Based on this tweet, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj had sought a report on the issue from the Indian Ambassador in Poland, Ajay Bisaria. Swaraj then spoke to Bisaria regarding the assault on the student whose name was not disclosed. Read more

Hundreds of pubs, bars and liquor store situated along national and state highways have been forced to shut down from Saturday after the Supreme court refused to stay its order in this regard.

The apex court had in December 2016 ruled that all liquor outlets within 500 metres of state and national highways across the country should be closed. The court had cited these outlets as the reason behind the rise in road accidents. Read more

1. Swarajya Bhoomi Trust Wants To Convert Jinnah House Into Bal Gangadhar Tilak Memorial

A day after Pakistan demanded India to hand over the possession of the Jinnah House in Malabar Hill, the Lokmanya Tilak Swarajya Bhoomi Trust has staked a claim for the property for creating a memorial depicting the legacy of Tilak.

In a statement, founder president of the trust, Prakash Silam said it had written to the Public Works Department on January 29, 2016, that the Jinnah House premises be handed over to it. Read more

2. China Warns India Against Dalai Lama's Visit To Arunachal, Calls It A 'Big Mistake'

Unable to block the upcoming visit of the Dalai Lama to Arunachal Pradesh, China is now emphasising that India is committing a major mistake in allowing him to visit the border state.

"This will have serious damage on bilateral relations (sic)," Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Lu Kang warned. Read more

3. Sushma Swaraj Seeks Report After Indian Student Survives 'Racial Attack' In Poland

External Affairs minister Sushma Swaraj has sought a report on an alleged racial attack on an Indian student in Polish city of Pozan. This comes after a twitter user reached out to Swaraj claiming that the student had succumbed to his injuries.

Based on this tweet, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj had sought a report on the issue from the Indian Ambassador in Poland, Ajay Bisaria. Swaraj then spoke to Bisaria regarding the assault on the student whose name was not disclosed. Read more

Don't Miss 40.3 K SHARES 33.9 K SHARES 33.9 K SHARES

4. UP's Anti-Romeo Squad Takes Moral Policing To Another Level, Shaves Head Of Man For Inter-Religious Affair

A video of policemen shaving the head of a youth who was in an inter-religious relationship in Shahjahanpur has been widely circulated online. The incident happened under Rajghat, after an anti-Romeo squad caught an inter-faith couple.

Following an outcry against the police action, the superintendent of police, Shahjahanpur, has ordered an investigation into the matter. Read more

5. India May Change 'No-First-Use Of Nukes' Doctrine In War Against Pakistan

Nuclear doctrines have come a long way from the time Ronald Reagan declared in 1984 that ''A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.''

Forced to counter Pakistan 's persistent use of terrorism under a nuclear cover and the slippery slope that introduced to the region, India may be re-interpreting its no-first-use of nuclear weapons policy to allow pre-emptive strikes against its neighbor, the nuclear pundits community is deducing, based among other things on cryptic statements from the Indian establishment. Read more