SRK's Tribute To Mumbai, Sylvester Stallone's Messages For His Dog And More From Entertainment
SRK's Tribute To Mumbai, Sylvester Stallone's Messages For His Dog And More From Entertainment
SRK's Tribute To Mumbai, Sylvester Stallone's Messages For His Dog And More From Entertainment 1. A Nostalgic Shah Rukh Khan Had The Most Adorable Message On Completing 25 Years In Mumbai! On completing 25 years in the city of Dreams, Mumbai, SRK took to Twitter to write a nostalgic message. Calling Mumbai  “given me my life”, SRK tweeted, "25 yrs in Mumbai, which has given me my life. For the 1st time at the opening of RC vfx new office I felt, I must have done something right." 2. Sylvester Stallone's Heart-Warming Messages For His ‘Rocky’ Dog Butkus Will Make You Emotional! I absolutely love pictures like this. When I was 26, totally broke, going nowhere VERY fast, owned two pair of pants that barely fit, shoes that had holes in them and dreams of being successful were as far away as the sun… But I had my dog, BUTKUS, my best friend, my confidant, Who always laughed at my jokes, and put up with my moods, and was the one living thing that loved me for who I was! #man's best friend#BullMastiff #Loyalty #NewYorkCity#AmericanDreams A post shared by Sly Stallone (@officialslystallone) on Mar 30, 2017 at 9:21am PDT   Money never mattered to Rocky as that's something that he has also mentioned in his latest Instagram posts.  He has mentioned how  Butkus "was worth every penny!" After almost 40 years since Butkus' passed away, the 70-year-old Sylvester wrote the most emotional tribute for him that is worth the read. 3. Taapsee-Akshay Kumar's 'Naam Shabana' Goes International - Gets 354 Screens In 37 Countries The movie showcases Shabana's journey of becoming an undercover agent. In the US, the movie will release in 82 screens; in UAE, it will be shown in 43 screens; followed by 28 screens in Britain and 21 screens in Australia. Some of the non-traditional markets that it is being released in are Italy, Kygystan, Switzerland, Ukraine, Poland, Czech Republic, Maldives, Germany, Belgium and Suriname. 4. No Abuses Please - Censor Board Demands 12 Major Cuts In Vidya Balan's Begum Jaan The report further claims how a scene that depicted communal violence has been chopped off to half! CBFC have given an ultimatum to the makers that if they don't agree to their demands, they won't get the certificate. 5. After Audience Fails To React At His Jokes, Kapil Sharma Cancels Shoot Within 15 Minutes! If reports are to be believed, Kapil and his new co-stars Raju Srivastav along with Sumona Chakravarti and Kiku Sharda could not pull off jokes. And even when Kapil Sharma joined the cast, the comic timing was so off that audience did not react at all.

1. A Nostalgic Shah Rukh Khan Had The Most Adorable Message On Completing 25 Years In Mumbai!

Pinterest

On completing 25 years in the city of Dreams, Mumbai, SRK took to Twitter to write a nostalgic message. Calling Mumbai “given me my life”, SRK tweeted, "25 yrs in Mumbai, which has given me my life. For the 1st time at the opening of RC vfx new office I felt, I must have done something right."

2. Sylvester Stallone's Heart-Warming Messages For His ‘Rocky’ Dog Butkus Will Make You Emotional!

Money never mattered to Rocky as that's something that he has also mentioned in his latest Instagram posts. He has mentioned how Butkus "was worth every penny!" After almost 40 years since Butkus' passed away, the 70-year-old Sylvester wrote the most emotional tribute for him that is worth the read.

3. Taapsee-Akshay Kumar's 'Naam Shabana' Goes International - Gets 354 Screens In 37 Countries

YouTube

The movie showcases Shabana's journey of becoming an undercover agent. In the US, the movie will release in 82 screens; in UAE, it will be shown in 43 screens; followed by 28 screens in Britain and 21 screens in Australia. Some of the non-traditional markets that it is being released in are Italy, Kygystan, Switzerland, Ukraine, Poland, Czech Republic, Maldives, Germany, Belgium and Suriname.

4. No Abuses Please - Censor Board Demands 12 Major Cuts In Vidya Balan's Begum Jaan

Vishesh Films

The report further claims how a scene that depicted communal violence has been chopped off to half! CBFC have given an ultimatum to the makers that if they don't agree to their demands, they won't get the certificate.

5. After Audience Fails To React At His Jokes, Kapil Sharma Cancels Shoot Within 15 Minutes!

Colors

If reports are to be believed, Kapil and his new co-stars Raju Srivastav along with Sumona Chakravarti and Kiku Sharda could not pull off jokes. And even when Kapil Sharma joined the cast, the comic timing was so off that audience did not react at all.