Tesla Boosted On $2 Billion Bet From Tencent, The Facebook Of China
Tesla Boosted On $2 Billion Bet From Tencent, The Facebook Of China
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Brian Solomon       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. credit Tesla's Elon Musk Tesla got a surprise vote of confidence on Tuesday morning from a massive Chinese social network company. In a U.S. regulatory filing, Tencent announced that it has acquired a 5% stake in Tesla, costing about $1.8 billion. The move comes as Tesla has raised $1.4 billion in a separate offering of stock and debt, increasing its liquidity as the Elon Musk venture tries to mass produce the new, cheaper Model 3 sedan. Tencent may be unfamiliar to many of Tesla's U.S. customers, but it is worth almost $280 billion listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Tencent's biggest business is mobile gaming, built on top of WeChat, its ubiquitous messaging app. WeChat has more than 750 million daily active users, second globally only to Facebook's 1.26 billion. Tencent has been acquisitive in the past, but mainly around gaming, like League of Legends-maker Riot Games and Clash of Clans-maker Supercell. It has also invested in China's largest ridesharing startup, Didi Chuxing, and startup electric car developer NextEv. Tesla shares traded up about 3% on the news, and are now up 30% since the beginning of the year. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

credit

Tesla got a surprise vote of confidence on Tuesday morning from a massive Chinese social network company.

In a U.S. regulatory filing, Tencent announced that it has acquired a 5% stake in Tesla, costing about $1.8 billion. The move comes as Tesla has raised $1.4 billion in a separate offering of stock and debt, increasing its liquidity as the Elon Musk venture tries to mass produce the new, cheaper Model 3 sedan.

Tencent may be unfamiliar to many of Tesla's U.S. customers, but it is worth almost $280 billion listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Tencent's biggest business is mobile gaming, built on top of WeChat, its ubiquitous messaging app. WeChat has more than 750 million daily active users, second globally only to Facebook's 1.26 billion.

Tencent has been acquisitive in the past, but mainly around gaming, like League of Legends-maker Riot Games and Clash of Clans-maker Supercell. It has also invested in China's largest ridesharing startup, Didi Chuxing, and startup electric car developer NextEv.

Tesla shares traded up about 3% on the news, and are now up 30% since the beginning of the year.

Brian Solomon covers technology and the on-demand economy for Forbes. Follow him on Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn.