The Playlist: Mary J. Blige Sings of Self-Empowerment, Kendrick Lamar Raps About Power
The Playlist: Mary J. Blige Sings of Self-Empowerment, Kendrick Lamar Raps About Power
Mary J. Blige feat. Kanye West, ‘Love Yourself’   Church, concert hall, theater, club: DJ Camper’s production for Mary J. Blige’s new song, “Love Yourself,” visits them all as she advises, “You gotta love yourself before you love somebody else.” A tolling, gospelly piano and a swirl of harp start her off, letting her preach; later verses add a ratcheting beat and a cinematic horn flourish. Kanye West’s guest spot ignores Ms. Blige’s struggles and strength for a stretch of self-promotion: “He a designer, artist, producer and he rap.” He doesn’t need to be reminded to love himself. JON PARELES Sufjan Stevens, Bryce Dessner, Nico Muhly, James McAlister, ‘Saturn’ In 2013, Sufjan Stevens collaborated with classically trained composers like Nico Muhly who have shared common ground with art-rock on “Planetarium,” a multimedia concert with songs about the planets. Luckily, the music wasn’t left in the concert hall; “Saturn” previews the “Planetarium” album, due June 9. Mr. Stevens’s lyrics personify Saturn by way of its roles in myth and astrology: a heartless ancient deity who devoured his sons for fear of being overthrown, and the zodiac’s portent of aging. It’s an electronic track, all pulsating, echoing, arpeggiating chords behind Mr. Stevens’s effects-laden vocal. A four-on-the-floor beat arrives halfway through to push on to the end, turning EDM optimism against itself. J.P. Kendrick Lamar, ‘Humble.’ A stern talking-to from Kendrick Lamar, “Humble.,” is brisk and wobbly, with blunt edges. Mr. Lamar is often misrepresented as a rapper overwhelmingly preoccupied with greater social good, but here he demonstrates what feels like his real passion: insult, tough talk, the dismantling of another’s pride. “Obama just paged me,” he boasts, and who could have a worthy comeback? JON CARAMANICA Linda May Han Oh, ‘Walk Against Wind’   Linda May Han Oh often performs in the imposing jazz trumpeter Dave Douglas’s ensemble, but she’s on pace to become something rare in jazz: a bassist known primarily for her work as a bandleader. Over the course of four albums, she’s grown only more adept at crafting tunes of slow and big harmonic movement, with quick, tensile rhythms that keep them feeling agile. The groups she smartly assembles have something to do with her success: On “Walk Against Wind” (the title track of an album due April 14), she’s joined by an unexpected alliance of young musicians from various pockets of New York’s improvised music scene: Ben Wendel on tenor saxophone, Matthew Stevens on guitar and Justin Brown on drums. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO Kondi Band, ‘Titi Dem Too Service’  The kondi is the Sierra Leone variant of the African thumb piano, and it plinks quick, terse, insistent syncopations all the way though “Titi Dem Too Service,” by Kondi Band, which is the project of Sorie Kondi, a singer and kondi player from Sierra Leone, and Chief Boima, an American D.J. and producer with roots in Sierra Leone. The song, which has admonitory lyrics about gold-digging women and self-deluding men, sounds skeletal: just the thumb-piano pattern, call-and-response vocals from Mr. Kondi, a steady 4/4 thump and a few electronic boops and buzzes. But anything else would hold back its hypnotic drive. J.P. Calvin Harris feat. Young Thug, Pharrell Williams and Ariana Grande, ‘Heatstroke’   Calvin Harris has done the unthinkable: make Young Thug sound accessible and dull. This soft disco number is plenty pleasant, and in its own way, effective. The production is silken, Pharrell Williams delivers an exaggerated funk vocal, and Ariana Grande is here with those glissando sighs. But Young Thug, hip-hop’s great eccentric — he sounds sparkly, almost jovial, and worst of all, crystal clear. Sure, the second verse is better than the first, but the damage is done: The mad genius is unmasked. A nation weeps. J.C. Aldous Harding, ‘Imagining My Man’ The placid folk-rock arrangement of “Imagining My Man” holds internalized torment and confusion, as Aldous Harding, a songwriter from New Zealand, ponders a relationship that’s hovering in a troubled limbo. “It can be so hard to forgive,” she notes, singing so low that she could be murmuring only to herself. The chorus contends, mockingly or not, “You were right, love takes time, hey hey.” And every so often in a verse, her voice leaps up in a startling flare of dissonance: “I do not have the answers,” she cries, then drops back to her murmur, continuing, “but I don’t have the wish to go back.” There’s no resolution, only patience. J.P Mavis Staples, ‘The Weight’   In 2014, Mavis Staples celebrated turning 75 with an all-star concert in Chicago to be released as a TV special on AXS TV on April 16 and a concert CD and DVD on June 2. The preview is “The Weight,” the song she and her family group, the Staple Singers, joined for the Band’s farewell, “The Last Waltz,” back in 1976. Trading off verses with Gregg Allman, Michael McDonald, Joan Osborne, Jeff Tweedy, Eric Church and Win Butler, she’s gutsier than any of them, almost speaking in tongues at the end. J.P. Yellow Claw feat. Juicy J and Lil Debbie, ‘City on Lockdown’   You say no to unlikely collaborations with a Dutch dance music duo and a sneering white-girl rapper; Juicy J can’t. And what a relief: “City on Lockdown” is goofy fun. Lil Debbie raps as if telling off a worthless ex, and just as the song seems to arrive at its chaotic climax, Juicy J arrives with the war report from a lively night: “I’m seeing in threes.” J.C. Jonathan Coulton, ‘All This Time’ In his high-concept video for “All This Time,” Jonathan Coulton — a songwriter who has never left behind the geek streak of his years as a software engineer — revisits the low-bandwidth era when computer games used text, not images. The game play parallels the sci-fi scenario of the song, about a worker in some vast future factory, who earns credits and is kept in line by pills while wistfully contemplating destruction and its aftermath: “What if all the switches get stuck on Destroy?” he sings. “All we’ll have is all this time.” Although Mr. Coulton’s usual instrument is acoustic guitar, “All This Time” runs on the motoric synthesizer rhythm of krautrock as it seeks a post-dystopian bliss. J.P. Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah feat. Elena Pinderhughes, ‘The Coronation of X. aTunde Adjuah’ If Robert Glasper is our best-known advocate for drawing explicit lines between jazz and hip-hop, he still brings something of a jazz musician’s throwback affinities to the job. A lot of Mr. Glasper’s work with his band the Experiment relates most to the sounds of hip-hop’s early-1990s golden age. It was only inevitable that other young jazz musicians would start to interact more explicitly with contemporary radio. That’s what the trumpeter Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah is doing here — all while drawing his own broad connections. Using an SPD-SX drum machine, as well as West African hand drums like the kenkeni and sangban, Mr. Scott’s band crafts a throbbing beat that’s equal parts trap music and New Orleanian march. There are hardly any chord changes; instead, Mr. Scott and the fleet young flutist Elena Pinderhughes lay a melody of gentle lament across the beat, then embark on a pair of bracing solos. G.R. Thomas Rhett feat. Maren Morris, ‘Craving You’   What Thomas Rhett and Maren Morris have in common is a fluency with R&B gestures — they’re a natural fit for a duet. Maybe not this one, though. “Craving You” is tepid country-pop that leans in to its grand flourishes, which are all in the production, not the singing. (One of the songwriters is Julian Bunetta, of One Direction fame.) Mr. Rhett and Ms. Morris sing as if trapped by a machine, which might be fine, if it were the right machine. J.C. Cam’ron, ‘10,000 Miles’ Yes, this is Cam’ron rapping about romantic regret over a beat based on the Vanessa Carlton piano ballad “10,000 Miles.” Maybe he lost a bet — in the video, he wears a T-shirt that says “cheat on your diet not your girl” — or maybe he’s smarter than all of us. J.C.

Image

Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos — and anything else that strikes them as intriguing. You can listen to this playlist on Spotify here. Like this Playlist? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com, and sign up for our Louder newsletter here.

Mary J. Blige feat. Kanye West, ‘Love Yourself’

Interactive

Church, concert hall, theater, club: DJ Camper’s production for Mary J. Blige’s new song, “Love Yourself,” visits them all as she advises, “You gotta love yourself before you love somebody else.” A tolling, gospelly piano and a swirl of harp start her off, letting her preach; later verses add a ratcheting beat and a cinematic horn flourish. Kanye West’s guest spot ignores Ms. Blige’s struggles and strength for a stretch of self-promotion: “He a designer, artist, producer and he rap.” He doesn’t need to be reminded to love himself. JON PARELES

Sufjan Stevens, Bryce Dessner, Nico Muhly, James McAlister, ‘Saturn’

In 2013, Sufjan Stevens collaborated with classically trained composers like Nico Muhly who have shared common ground with art-rock on “Planetarium,” a multimedia concert with songs about the planets. Luckily, the music wasn’t left in the concert hall; “Saturn” previews the “Planetarium” album, due June 9. Mr. Stevens’s lyrics personify Saturn by way of its roles in myth and astrology: a heartless ancient deity who devoured his sons for fear of being overthrown, and the zodiac’s portent of aging. It’s an electronic track, all pulsating, echoing, arpeggiating chords behind Mr. Stevens’s effects-laden vocal. A four-on-the-floor beat arrives halfway through to push on to the end, turning EDM optimism against itself. J.P.

Kendrick Lamar, ‘Humble.’

A stern talking-to from Kendrick Lamar, “Humble.,” is brisk and wobbly, with blunt edges. Mr. Lamar is often misrepresented as a rapper overwhelmingly preoccupied with greater social good, but here he demonstrates what feels like his real passion: insult, tough talk, the dismantling of another’s pride. “Obama just paged me,” he boasts, and who could have a worthy comeback? JON CARAMANICA

Linda May Han Oh, ‘Walk Against Wind’

Interactive

Linda May Han Oh often performs in the imposing jazz trumpeter Dave Douglas’s ensemble, but she’s on pace to become something rare in jazz: a bassist known primarily for her work as a bandleader. Over the course of four albums, she’s grown only more adept at crafting tunes of slow and big harmonic movement, with quick, tensile rhythms that keep them feeling agile. The groups she smartly assembles have something to do with her success: On “Walk Against Wind” (the title track of an album due April 14), she’s joined by an unexpected alliance of young musicians from various pockets of New York’s improvised music scene: Ben Wendel on tenor saxophone, Matthew Stevens on guitar and Justin Brown on drums. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO

Kondi Band, ‘Titi Dem Too Service’

The kondi is the Sierra Leone variant of the African thumb piano, and it plinks quick, terse, insistent syncopations all the way though “Titi Dem Too Service,” by Kondi Band, which is the project of Sorie Kondi, a singer and kondi player from Sierra Leone, and Chief Boima, an American D.J. and producer with roots in Sierra Leone. The song, which has admonitory lyrics about gold-digging women and self-deluding men, sounds skeletal: just the thumb-piano pattern, call-and-response vocals from Mr. Kondi, a steady 4/4 thump and a few electronic boops and buzzes. But anything else would hold back its hypnotic drive. J.P.

Calvin Harris feat. Young Thug, Pharrell Williams and Ariana Grande, ‘Heatstroke’

Interactive

Calvin Harris has done the unthinkable: make Young Thug sound accessible and dull. This soft disco number is plenty pleasant, and in its own way, effective. The production is silken, Pharrell Williams delivers an exaggerated funk vocal, and Ariana Grande is here with those glissando sighs. But Young Thug, hip-hop’s great eccentric — he sounds sparkly, almost jovial, and worst of all, crystal clear. Sure, the second verse is better than the first, but the damage is done: The mad genius is unmasked. A nation weeps. J.C.

Aldous Harding, ‘Imagining My Man’

The placid folk-rock arrangement of “Imagining My Man” holds internalized torment and confusion, as Aldous Harding, a songwriter from New Zealand, ponders a relationship that’s hovering in a troubled limbo. “It can be so hard to forgive,” she notes, singing so low that she could be murmuring only to herself. The chorus contends, mockingly or not, “You were right, love takes time, hey hey.” And every so often in a verse, her voice leaps up in a startling flare of dissonance: “I do not have the answers,” she cries, then drops back to her murmur, continuing, “but I don’t have the wish to go back.” There’s no resolution, only patience. J.P

Mavis Staples, ‘The Weight’

Interactive

In 2014, Mavis Staples celebrated turning 75 with an all-star concert in Chicago to be released as a TV special on AXS TV on April 16 and a concert CD and DVD on June 2. The preview is “The Weight,” the song she and her family group, the Staple Singers, joined for the Band’s farewell, “The Last Waltz,” back in 1976. Trading off verses with Gregg Allman, Michael McDonald, Joan Osborne, Jeff Tweedy, Eric Church and Win Butler, she’s gutsier than any of them, almost speaking in tongues at the end. J.P.

Yellow Claw feat. Juicy J and Lil Debbie, ‘City on Lockdown’

Interactive

You say no to unlikely collaborations with a Dutch dance music duo and a sneering white-girl rapper; Juicy J can’t. And what a relief: “City on Lockdown” is goofy fun. Lil Debbie raps as if telling off a worthless ex, and just as the song seems to arrive at its chaotic climax, Juicy J arrives with the war report from a lively night: “I’m seeing in threes.” J.C.

Jonathan Coulton, ‘All This Time’

In his high-concept video for “All This Time,” Jonathan Coulton — a songwriter who has never left behind the geek streak of his years as a software engineer — revisits the low-bandwidth era when computer games used text, not images. The game play parallels the sci-fi scenario of the song, about a worker in some vast future factory, who earns credits and is kept in line by pills while wistfully contemplating destruction and its aftermath: “What if all the switches get stuck on Destroy?” he sings. “All we’ll have is all this time.” Although Mr. Coulton’s usual instrument is acoustic guitar, “All This Time” runs on the motoric synthesizer rhythm of krautrock as it seeks a post-dystopian bliss. J.P.

Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah feat. Elena Pinderhughes, ‘The Coronation of X. aTunde Adjuah’

If Robert Glasper is our best-known advocate for drawing explicit lines between jazz and hip-hop, he still brings something of a jazz musician’s throwback affinities to the job. A lot of Mr. Glasper’s work with his band the Experiment relates most to the sounds of hip-hop’s early-1990s golden age. It was only inevitable that other young jazz musicians would start to interact more explicitly with contemporary radio. That’s what the trumpeter Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah is doing here — all while drawing his own broad connections. Using an SPD-SX drum machine, as well as West African hand drums like the kenkeni and sangban, Mr. Scott’s band crafts a throbbing beat that’s equal parts trap music and New Orleanian march. There are hardly any chord changes; instead, Mr. Scott and the fleet young flutist Elena Pinderhughes lay a melody of gentle lament across the beat, then embark on a pair of bracing solos. G.R.

Thomas Rhett feat. Maren Morris, ‘Craving You’

Interactive

What Thomas Rhett and Maren Morris have in common is a fluency with R&B gestures — they’re a natural fit for a duet. Maybe not this one, though. “Craving You” is tepid country-pop that leans in to its grand flourishes, which are all in the production, not the singing. (One of the songwriters is Julian Bunetta, of One Direction fame.) Mr. Rhett and Ms. Morris sing as if trapped by a machine, which might be fine, if it were the right machine. J.C.

Cam’ron, ‘10,000 Miles’

Yes, this is Cam’ron rapping about romantic regret over a beat based on the Vanessa Carlton piano ballad “10,000 Miles.” Maybe he lost a bet — in the video, he wears a T-shirt that says “cheat on your diet not your girl” — or maybe he’s smarter than all of us. J.C.