3 arrested in connection with large fire that collapsed portion of Atlanta highway
3 arrested in connection with Atlanta highway fire
Shares               Three people have been arrested in connection with the large fire that collapsed a portion of an Atlanta highway Thursday, according to fire officials. The suspects were identified as Basil Eleby, Sophia Broner and Barry Thomas, Georgia Deputy Insurance Commissioner Jay Florence to ABC News. Eleby faces a charge of criminal damage to property, while Broner and Thomas each were charged with criminal trespass. They have not yet entered pleas. According to Georgia Deputy Insurance Commissioner Jay Florence, the fire was lit using materials that were on site. The Atlanta Fire Department said Eleby is the suspect "we are holding responsible for the fire," according to Sgt. Cortez Stafford, and the department believes the fire was set maliciously. Eleby remains in custody and additional charges may be pending, according to the fire department. It was not clear if the other two suspects remained in custody. Police records show Eleby has 20 arrests dating back to 2000, mostly for possessing and selling drugs and assault.   Two of the suspects were interviewed, leading to the arrest of the third, Florence said. Atlanta residents may face a travel nightmare after a massive fire caused an overpass on Interstate 85 in the city to collapse, shuttering the major thoroughfare. No injuries were reported and no cars were on the highway bridge when it fell during Thursday afternoon's rush hour, Atlanta Fire Department spokesman Sgt. Cortez Stafford said, according to The Associated Press. Fire officials said this afternoon that firefighters at the scene saved lives by recognizing cracks in the concrete and calling for an evacuation.     The cause of the fire remains under investigation. Georgia Transportation Commissioner Russell McMurry said the fire started in an area used "as a storage location for construction materials, equipment and supplies. The site was a secured area containing materials such as PVC piping, which is a stable, noncombustible material."        Interstate 85 is a major thruway in the Atlanta metropolitan area, carrying 400,000 cars a day, according to the Department of Transportation. The highway's closure is expected to cause major headaches in this heavily car-dependent city. Officials are still determining the extent of damage and said there is no set timeline for the repairs. McMurry said it will take "at least several months" to rebuild. He said about 350 feet of the northbound road as well as 350 feet of the southbound road will have to be totally removed and replaced. "That is no small feat, but we're up to the challenge," McMurry said at a news conference this afternoon.   The transportation crisis comes at a terrible time, said Col. Mark W. McDonough of Georgia's Department of Public Safety, with travel expected to be high during spring break and with the Atlanta Braves ' home exhibition game today against the New York Yankees .   Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal has declared a state of emergency. The Federal Highway Administration today awarded $10 million in “quick release” funding to initiate the most critical repairs in the next few weeks. The "funds are considered a down payment on the costs of short-term repairs now, which can make long-term repair work possible in the weeks ahead," the Department of Transportation said in a statement.   One driver described her commute today as "horrible." "It took me two hours to get out here this morning and then I had to come back out to take a friend to work," she told ABC News. "But that's life. What else can we do?" Another driver, Laura, told ABC News, "You have to make the best of it. If you get upset about it, it's just going to make your drive worse." "You can't change the situation," she added, "so just try to be polite to whoever is trying to get in and out and it'll make your drive home a whole lot easier." Drivers are encouraged to shorten their trips and carpool with others, and Atlanta's public transportation system is stepping up rail and bus service, McMurry said. "We ask for your continued patience as we gather more information and details on the required repairs and reconstruction activities needed to bring this roadway back to operational levels," McMurry said.  Shares                  3 arrested in connection with Atlanta highway fire   Nunes met by about 300 protesters upon returning to his district   US House race offers insight into shifting Democratic Party   Far-right clash with anti-fascists in London, 14 arrested   DUI case against model might be dismissed   William Coleman, lawyer, ex-Cabinet member, died   Pentagon seizing more control over warfighting   Supreme Court showdown looms ahead of vote   UConn's 111-game winning streak ends, Miss St wins at buzzer   Barbershop finds success in out-of-the-box idea to get kids reading   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   7-year-old basketball star gets a special surprise from Harlem Globetrotters   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   Teacher raises $80K for bikes for elementary school's entire student body   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service   White House allowing public to request financials for senior staff   Most occupants in Texas bus crash were wearing seat belt: NTSB   US cancer deaths are decreasing, study finds   US enrolls volunteers in large test of possible Zika vaccine   South Sudan's civil war creates a new lost generation   Charleston church shooter to plead guilty in state murder case   Remains of Isabel Celis, who went missing in 2012, found in Arizona: Police   Dad stunned wounded man is nightclub shooting suspect   Getaway driver convicted of murder over carjacking at mall   State troopers fatally shoot man at NJ Turnpike rest stop   Judge approves Trump University settlement   Tar Heels have spent years building to Final Four moment   Hayden Christensen, Mark Hamill back for 'Star Wars' Celebration   Jewel used self-taught meditation to help cope with anxiety   Harriet Tubman photo bought by Smithsonian, national library   April Fools' Day: How did it start?

Three people have been arrested in connection with the large fire that collapsed a portion of an Atlanta highway Thursday, according to fire officials.

The suspects were identified as Basil Eleby, Sophia Broner and Barry Thomas, Georgia Deputy Insurance Commissioner Jay Florence to ABC News. Eleby faces a charge of criminal damage to property, while Broner and Thomas each were charged with criminal trespass. They have not yet entered pleas.

According to Georgia Deputy Insurance Commissioner Jay Florence, the fire was lit using materials that were on site. The Atlanta Fire Department said Eleby is the suspect "we are holding responsible for the fire," according to Sgt. Cortez Stafford, and the department believes the fire was set maliciously.

Eleby remains in custody and additional charges may be pending, according to the fire department. It was not clear if the other two suspects remained in custody. Police records show Eleby has 20 arrests dating back to 2000, mostly for possessing and selling drugs and assault.

Fulton County Sheriffs Office

Two of the suspects were interviewed, leading to the arrest of the third, Florence said.

Atlanta residents may face a travel nightmare after a massive fire caused an overpass on Interstate 85 in the city to collapse, shuttering the major thoroughfare.

No injuries were reported and no cars were on the highway bridge when it fell during Thursday afternoon's rush hour, Atlanta Fire Department spokesman Sgt. Cortez Stafford said, according to The Associated Press. Fire officials said this afternoon that firefighters at the scene saved lives by recognizing cracks in the concrete and calling for an evacuation.

David Goldman/AP Photo

Curtis Compton/Atlanta Journal-Constitution/Handout via Reuters

The cause of the fire remains under investigation.

Georgia Transportation Commissioner Russell McMurry said the fire started in an area used "as a storage location for construction materials, equipment and supplies. The site was a secured area containing materials such as PVC piping, which is a stable, noncombustible material."

David Goldman/AP Photo

David Goldman/AP Photo

Interstate 85 is a major thruway in the Atlanta metropolitan area, carrying 400,000 cars a day, according to the Department of Transportation. The highway's closure is expected to cause major headaches in this heavily car-dependent city.

Officials are still determining the extent of damage and said there is no set timeline for the repairs. McMurry said it will take "at least several months" to rebuild.

He said about 350 feet of the northbound road as well as 350 feet of the southbound road will have to be totally removed and replaced.

"That is no small feat, but we're up to the challenge," McMurry said at a news conference this afternoon.

Courtesy Curtis Compton/Atlanta Journal-Constitution/Handout via Reuters

The transportation crisis comes at a terrible time, said Col. Mark W. McDonough of Georgia's Department of Public Safety, with travel expected to be high during spring break and with the Atlanta Braves' home exhibition game today against the New York Yankees.

WXIA-TV via USA TODAY NETWORK

Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal has declared a state of emergency.

The Federal Highway Administration today awarded $10 million in “quick release” funding to initiate the most critical repairs in the next few weeks.

The "funds are considered a down payment on the costs of short-term repairs now, which can make long-term repair work possible in the weeks ahead," the Department of Transportation said in a statement.

David Goldman/AP Photo

One driver described her commute today as "horrible."

"It took me two hours to get out here this morning and then I had to come back out to take a friend to work," she told ABC News. "But that's life. What else can we do?"

Another driver, Laura, told ABC News, "You have to make the best of it. If you get upset about it, it's just going to make your drive worse."

"You can't change the situation," she added, "so just try to be polite to whoever is trying to get in and out and it'll make your drive home a whole lot easier."

Drivers are encouraged to shorten their trips and carpool with others, and Atlanta's public transportation system is stepping up rail and bus service, McMurry said.

"We ask for your continued patience as we gather more information and details on the required repairs and reconstruction activities needed to bring this roadway back to operational levels," McMurry said.

ABC News' Janice McDonald and Dominick Proto and The Associated Press contributed to this report.