Baltimore Ravens Claim They're Taking a Boat to 2017 London Game in April Fool's Day Joke
Baltimore Ravens Claim They're Taking a Boat to 2017 London Game in April Fool's Day Joke
If you thought your favorite sports franchises were above playing pranks on their fans, guess again. The Baltimore Ravens released what appeared to be a standard press release on Saturday morning, announcing they'd be traveling via boat to their Week Two game in London next fall. Though it's pretty obviously an April Fool's Day joke, credit to the Ravens for really going all out to sell this one. Citing extensive research and sports science, they claim the trip would benefit the players on both a mental and physical level prior to their game against the Jacksonville Jaguars. Not only did they promote it on their website and from the team's official Twitter account , the Ravens had a gaggle of co-conspirators feigning excitement over the move. Harbaugh Ravens players were in on the joke along with Harbaugh. The coach called Ravens wideout and Naval Academy graduate Keenan Reynolds an "asset" in their journey, and several members of the team took to Twitter to feign excitement over the so-called trip: it's confirmed we are really taking a cruise ship when we play in London this year. pic.twitter.com/ Can't wait! Never been on a cruise before! Just got our itinerary for the season #  #  https://t.co/ Unsuspecting fans got excited about the prospect of a Ravens cruise line, only to have their hopes dashed when they realized they'd been had: @Ravens That's awesome, full football field on board? @Ravens God damn #aprilfoolsday @Ravens Well damn bring the motion sickness pills @Ravens i think I'd rather just get over there and hangout for a couple days. I'd fly The Ravens' fake cruise ship sounds like a dream — have you ever heard of a boat with a full football field and mini-golf course on board? — and it's likely to stay that way. But on the off chance they end up taking a week-long cruise to their game, all we ask is they extend us an invite. sportstips@complex.com

If you thought your favorite sports franchises were above playing pranks on their fans, guess again. The Baltimore Ravens released what appeared to be a standard press release on Saturday morning, announcing they'd be traveling via boat to their Week Two game in London next fall.

Though it's pretty obviously an April Fool's Day joke, credit to the Ravens for really going all out to sell this one. Citing extensive research and sports science, they claim the trip would benefit the players on both a mental and physical level prior to their game against the Jacksonville Jaguars.

Not only did they promote it on their website and from the team's official Twitter account, the Ravens had a gaggle of co-conspirators feigning excitement over the move. The participants included head coach John Harbaugh, who recorded a short video for Ravens.com and explained the "reasoning" for the team deciding to forego the usual path of flying:

It fits our work week perfectly. We're going to have a chance to practice on board, which is amazing to me. We have a full 100-yard field on board – full weight room, full training room, the meals are going to be incredible. The way it's changed now with training camps not being away, you don't get a chance to do that like you used to. Just think of the opportunity. We're going to be on a ship for a whole week together – nowhere to go. We'll be together bonding our team all the way across the Atlantic Ocean.

Ravens players were in on the joke along with Harbaugh. The coach called Ravens wideout and Naval Academy graduate Keenan Reynolds an "asset" in their journey, and several members of the team took to Twitter to feign excitement over the so-called trip:

Yeeee it's confirmed we are really taking a cruise ship when we play in London this year. pic.twitter.com/pcFtrf51Lr — Tony Jefferson ( @_tonyjefferson ) April 1, 2017

Can't wait! Never been on a cruise before! Just got our itinerary for the season #ImOnaBoat #gotmyflippyfloppies https://t.co/4NziEvjPdy — Ryan Jensen ( @sinjen66 ) April 1, 2017

Unsuspecting fans got excited about the prospect of a Ravens cruise line, only to have their hopes dashed when they realized they'd been had:

@Ravens That's awesome, full football field on board? — Chris Bronson ( @Wokmaidog ) April 1, 2017

@Ravens Well damn bring the motion sickness pills — . (@ray_flee) April 1, 2017

@Ravens i think I'd rather just get over there and hangout for a couple days. I'd fly — Kemba George (@kembageorge) April 1, 2017

The Ravens' fake cruise ship sounds like a dream — have you ever heard of a boat with a full football field and mini-golf course on board? — and it's likely to stay that way. But on the off chance they end up taking a week-long cruise to their game, all we ask is they extend us an invite.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.