Video shows armless basketball player, 13, winning game with last second shot
Video shows armless basketball player, 13, winning game with last second shot
HEALTH Video shows armless basketball player, 13, winning game with last second shot Armless middle school basketball player Jamarion Styles, 13, on the court at Eagles Landing Middle School in Boca Raton, Fla.
	                        
	                        	 (WSVN-TV) An armless eight-grader without prosthetics sank a three-point shot at the buzzer this week that won the game and made him an online sensation. A cellphone recorded Jamarion Styles of Eagles Landing Middle School in Boca Raton, Fla., hitting the shot Wedensday and then being mobbed by teammates and fans on the court. The video went viral and was shown on ESPN, Miami Fox affiliate WSVN-TV reported Friday. Jamarion developed a bacterial infection that forced the amputation of his right arm just below the shoulder blade and his left arm just below the elbow. His disability hasn’t stopped him from playing basketball and football and dreaming of playing in the NFL when he is older, according to the station. He also plays the drums. “I think he plays just like everyone else,” teammate Mark Steig said of Jamarion in an interview with the station.  “He goes through it. He has no excuses.” Mark added, “He’s inspirational too.” Jamarion told WSVN he is enjoying the attention. “Just stay positive and you can do whatever you can if you want to,” he said.

An armless eight-grader without prosthetics sank a three-point shot at the buzzer this week that won the game and made him an online sensation.

A cellphone recorded Jamarion Styles of Eagles Landing Middle School in Boca Raton, Fla., hitting the shot Wedensday and then being mobbed by teammates and fans on the court. The video went viral and was shown on ESPN, Miami Fox affiliate WSVN-TV reported Friday.

Jamarion developed a bacterial infection that forced the amputation of his right arm just below the shoulder blade and his left arm just below the elbow.

His disability hasn’t stopped him from playing basketball and football and dreaming of playing in the NFL when he is older, according to the station. He also plays the drums.

“I think he plays just like everyone else,” teammate Mark Steig said of Jamarion in an interview with the station. “He goes through it. He has no excuses.”

Mark added, “He’s inspirational too.”

Jamarion told WSVN he is enjoying the attention.

“Just stay positive and you can do whatever you can if you want to,” he said.