The Boss Baby director addresses 'timely' Donald Trump comparisons
The Boss Baby director addresses 'timely' Donald Trump comparisons
Popular videos    Game of Thrones fan deciphers season 7 clue from new trailer      The IT trailer has broken a huge viewing record      Donald Trump storms out of executive order signing ceremony      Protesters set fire to Paraguay Congress after secret vote   Many people are drawing parallels between the protagonist of DreamWorks' new animated film and President Donald Trump . The film, from the makers of , follows a suit-wearing briefcase-carrying baby who is voiced by Alec Baldwin - the very actor who has spent the past six months lampooning Trump on . Director Tom McGrath spoke to about the 'timely' Trump analogies associated with his film. He said: “A lot of people think these movies could have been made in the last three months and they go, 'Was this based off Trump?' And to me, I think it’s actually great. Alec is a hardworking guy, and he’s very funny, and it’s no surprise that he can do Trump. He always came in and gave us his De Niro or Chris Walken, all these characters that he’d transform into, and so it’s no surprise - of course he can do Trump. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images  “But who knew six years ago when we started this… you never know where Alec’s going to be, where the country’s going to be, what the climate’s going to be. But a lot of people, I think, even looks-wise, see this little blonde baby in this suit, and it’s not a hard leap to project [Trump] on it.” Animator-turned-director McGrath is best known for directing the films. The Boss Baby is in cinemas now. More about: The Boss Baby Donald Trump Comments

Many people are drawing parallels between the protagonist of DreamWorks' new animated film The Boss Baby and President Donald Trump.

The film, from the makers of Megamind, follows a suit-wearing briefcase-carrying baby who is voiced by Alec Baldwin - the very actor who has spent the past six months lampooning Trump on Saturday Night Live.

Director Tom McGrath spoke to Entertainment Weekly about the 'timely' Trump analogies associated with his film.

He said: “A lot of people think these movies could have been made in the last three months and they go, 'Was this based off Trump?' And to me, I think it’s actually great. Alec is a hardworking guy, and he’s very funny, and it’s no surprise that he can do Trump. He always came in and gave us his De Niro or Chris Walken, all these characters that he’d transform into, and so it’s no surprise - of course he can do Trump.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







8 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued













1/8 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

2/8 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

3/8 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

4/8 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

5/8 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

6/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

7/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

8/8 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

“But who knew six years ago when we started this… you never know where Alec’s going to be, where the country’s going to be, what the climate’s going to be. But a lot of people, I think, even looks-wise, see this little blonde baby in this suit, and it’s not a hard leap to project [Trump] on it.”

Animator-turned-director McGrath is best known for directing the Madagascar films.

The Boss Baby is in cinemas now.