Just Foolin’ Around: 7 Books From Comics and Humorists
Just Foolin’ Around: 7 Books From Comics and Humorists
The perfect April Fools’ Day pranks are all a little ingenious, a little cruel and a bit too revealing. These books capture the same spirit of mischief with collections that straddle the line between memoir and late-night sketch, veracity and embellished storytelling. Whether you’re abstaining or just looking for a more passive brand of humor, these titles offer the same feeling of satisfaction that comes with outsmarting those closest to you. No scheming required.  The hashtag #girlboss could have been created for Tina Fey. Before her book’s release she employed some 200 people on her hit show “30 Rock” and perfected the art of political parody with her portrayal of Sarah Palin on “Saturday Night Live.” She feeds her memoir with those tales, as well as scenes from motherhood and other episodes from life off the sound stage. But to call the book just a memoir would be misleading. “It’s a spiky blend of humor, introspection, critical thinking and Nora Ephron-isms for a new generation,” Janet Maslin wrote in her review.  Before Kaling had her own sitcom, “The Mindy Project,” she had another Mindy project: this book. Her collection of essays relies on a trusted format — rehashing the antics of a comically absurd life in New York — but Kaling embues it with confidence and endears fans by inserting herself into a Venn diagram of frivolity with Kelly Kapoor , her breakout character from “The Office.” Sedaris is one of the most popular figures in American humor writing. “Holidays on Ice,” written largely before his Ira Glass-adjacent fame, pokes fun at holiday-season consumerism and oneupmanship. The best of this satirical collection is “SantaLand Diaries,” a meditation on his time as an elf for hire, which our reviewer, Alexandra Jacobs, called “at once hilarious and profoundly depressing.” Advertisement  At first look, “Modern Romance” might seem like a senior sociology thesis thought up by two buddies after too many shots at a comedy show. Yet Ansari’s riff on a single, semitragic dating episode, which he spins into a data-rich meditation on the problem of finding love in the 21st century, has universal appeal. It doesn’t hurt that he recruited an N.Y.U. professor to dig up supporting evidence or that his translation of it for the layman shares the zing of his standup and his acclaimed Netflix show, “Master of None.” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Ephron launched her career in part by talking about her body — specifically, how she grew to love her bosom. It’s no surprise then, that she eventually shaped a whole book around the idea of corporeal betrayals, sharing anecdotes of physiological humiliation — the sagging, the staining, the (failed) attempts to combat time and gravity — with a blend of wry humor and womanly swagger. Aging is O.K. with her, as long as she can get a good story out of it.  This witty civics lesson by the longtime host of “The Daily Show” tackles all the trappings of American democracy covered in your grade-school curriculum. Chapters outline the foundation of democracy and its future, but also the muddled execution (as in the aptly titled “Congress: Quagmire of Freedom”), along with sidebars and graphics that double as sight gags. The beauty of this parody textbook is how much of an educational supplement it could be. Jokes aside, it’s honest about the American framework: “Schoolhouse Rock!” for the era of The Onion. A guide to entertaining from Amy Sedaris might seem like a joke in itself, but there is genuine party-planning information inside this book — more than 200 recipes and some quirky tips that can only be described as “preposterously resourceful.” The actress known best for her role on “Strangers With Candy” might not lead you to a stress-free hosting experience, but she’ll definitely leave you fully prepared for wacky fun. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. FIRST CHAPTER

Photo

The perfect April Fools’ Day pranks are all a little ingenious, a little cruel and a bit too revealing. These books capture the same spirit of mischief with collections that straddle the line between memoir and late-night sketch, veracity and embellished storytelling. Whether you’re abstaining or just looking for a more passive brand of humor, these titles offer the same feeling of satisfaction that comes with outsmarting those closest to you. No scheming required.

BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. The hashtag #girlboss could have been created for Tina Fey. Before her book’s release she employed some 200 people on her hit show “30 Rock” and perfected the art of political parody with her portrayal of Sarah Palin on “Saturday Night Live.” She feeds her memoir with those tales, as well as scenes from motherhood and other episodes from life off the sound stage. But to call the book just a memoir would be misleading. “It’s a spiky blend of humor, introspection, critical thinking and Nora Ephron-isms for a new generation,” Janet Maslin wrote in her review.

IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME? (And Other Concerns), by Mindy Kaling. Before Kaling had her own sitcom, “The Mindy Project,” she had another Mindy project: this book. Her collection of essays relies on a trusted format — rehashing the antics of a comically absurd life in New York — but Kaling embues it with confidence and endears fans by inserting herself into a Venn diagram of frivolity with Kelly Kapoor, her breakout character from “The Office.”

HOLIDAYS ON ICE, by David Sedaris. Sedaris is one of the most popular figures in American humor writing. “Holidays on Ice,” written largely before his Ira Glass-adjacent fame, pokes fun at holiday-season consumerism and oneupmanship. The best of this satirical collection is “SantaLand Diaries,” a meditation on his time as an elf for hire, which our reviewer, Alexandra Jacobs, called “at once hilarious and profoundly depressing.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

MODERN ROMANCE, by Aziz Ansari with Eric Klinenberg. At first look, “Modern Romance” might seem like a senior sociology thesis thought up by two buddies after too many shots at a comedy show. Yet Ansari’s riff on a single, semitragic dating episode, which he spins into a data-rich meditation on the problem of finding love in the 21st century, has universal appeal. It doesn’t hurt that he recruited an N.Y.U. professor to dig up supporting evidence or that his translation of it for the layman shares the zing of his standup and his acclaimed Netflix show, “Master of None.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK: And Other Thoughts on Being a Woman, by Nora Ephron. Ephron launched her career in part by talking about her body — specifically, how she grew to love her bosom. It’s no surprise then, that she eventually shaped a whole book around the idea of corporeal betrayals, sharing anecdotes of physiological humiliation — the sagging, the staining, the (failed) attempts to combat time and gravity — with a blend of wry humor and womanly swagger. Aging is O.K. with her, as long as she can get a good story out of it.

AMERICA (THE BOOK): A Citizen’s Guide to Democracy Inaction, by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin and David Javerbaum. This witty civics lesson by the longtime host of “The Daily Show” tackles all the trappings of American democracy covered in your grade-school curriculum. Chapters outline the foundation of democracy and its future, but also the muddled execution (as in the aptly titled “Congress: Quagmire of Freedom”), along with sidebars and graphics that double as sight gags. The beauty of this parody textbook is how much of an educational supplement it could be. Jokes aside, it’s honest about the American framework: “Schoolhouse Rock!” for the era of The Onion.

I LIKE YOU: Hospitality Under the Influence, by Amy Sedaris. A guide to entertaining from Amy Sedaris might seem like a joke in itself, but there is genuine party-planning information inside this book — more than 200 recipes and some quirky tips that can only be described as “preposterously resourceful.” The actress known best for her role on “Strangers With Candy” might not lead you to a stress-free hosting experience, but she’ll definitely leave you fully prepared for wacky fun.