Tech hipster augmented reality monocles are coming, this prank proves it
Tech hipster augmented reality monocles are coming, this prank proves it
If it looks silly and appears within 24 hours of April Fools' Day , it's a fair target. Therefore, our latest object of scorn is the hipster-ready augmented reality concept device called the MonoLens. SEE ALSO: Okay, fine fine, Google's April Fool's Day pranks are pretty great this year, here are all of them The device is exactly what it sounds like: A single lens that hangs off your face and delivers all the wonders of augmented reality, without the cumbersome load of real augmented reality devices like the HoloLens . Envisioned by London-based creative agency Rewind , the concept device comes with its own elaborate promotion video in the run-up to a supposed Kickstarter campaign promised next Monday (don't hold your breath). "MonoLens is the first of its kind: a stripped-back, single optic augmented reality device that brings your digital world to life in real time," the company writes on the page promoting the device. Image:  rewind They even go as far as offering a Warby Parker-level amount of design and color choices for the discriminating fashion douche. However, fans of the classic series will notice two major wink-winks from the Rewind team in the device's promotion video. First, there's the appearance of the series' penny-farthing bicycle, and then we're given the circle-around-the-eye hand gesture from the same misdirection-filled TV show, usually accompanied by the phrase, "Be seeing you..." But back to that ridiculous concept device. We can laugh at it now, but here's the scary part: At the current rate of wearable tech development (and with Google Glass still fresh in our memories), at some point, a device like this will be a reality, and then we'll be forced to look back on this imagined device and wonder where we went so wrong. WATCH: This levitating speaker will take your music to new heights

If it looks silly and appears within 24 hours of April Fools' Day, it's a fair target. Therefore, our latest object of scorn is the hipster-ready augmented reality concept device called the MonoLens.

The device is exactly what it sounds like: A single lens that hangs off your face and delivers all the wonders of augmented reality, without the cumbersome load of real augmented reality devices like the HoloLens.

Envisioned by London-based creative agency Rewind, the concept device comes with its own elaborate promotion video in the run-up to a supposed Kickstarter campaign promised next Monday (don't hold your breath).

"MonoLens is the first of its kind: a stripped-back, single optic augmented reality device that brings your digital world to life in real time," the company writes on the page promoting the device.

Image: rewind

They even go as far as offering a Warby Parker-level amount of design and color choices for the discriminating fashion douche.

However, fans of the classic series The Prisoner will notice two major wink-winks from the Rewind team in the device's promotion video. First, there's the appearance of the series' penny-farthing bicycle, and then we're given the circle-around-the-eye hand gesture from the same misdirection-filled TV show, usually accompanied by the phrase, "Be seeing you..."

But back to that ridiculous concept device.

We can laugh at it now, but here's the scary part: At the current rate of wearable tech development (and with Google Glass still fresh in our memories), at some point, a device like this will be a reality, and then we'll be forced to look back on this imagined device and wonder where we went so wrong.