Homeless? Starving? Cheer up! These Great Depression billboards told poor Americans how lucky they were
Homeless? Starving? Cheer up! These Great Depression billboards told poor Americans how lucky they were
1937-1940 'The American Way' Making the Depression Great by Alex Q. Arbuckle 1937 African-Americans displaced by the Great Ohio River Flood line up  at a relief station in Louisville, Kentucky. Image: Margaret Bourke-White/Time & Life Pictures/Getty Images In January 1937, while covering the disastrous flooding of the Ohio River in Louisville, Kentucky for LIFE Magazine, Margaret Bourke-White captured an image that quickly became famous and eventually rose to become an icon of the Great Depression. The photo features a simple but sharply ironic juxtaposition: African-American flood victims line up for relief below a billboard with a beaming white family proclaiming WORLD’S HIGHEST STANDARD OF LIVING. Though Bourke-White’s image was one-of-a-kind, the billboard was not. It was one of thousands erected across the country as part of a years-long propaganda campaign by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM). Founded in 1895, NAM became a harsh critic of labor unions and government regulation in the early years of the New Deal. In the 1930s, NAM launched a wide-ranging publicity effort involving millions of cartoons, newspaper columns, leaflets, films, and more, preaching the virtues of free enterprise and the dangers of state intervention. Some of the billboards claimed WORLD'S SHORTEST WORKING HOURS as the result of unfettered markets, rather than decades of union struggle and government regulation. 1937 Near Kingwood, West Virginia. Image: Edwin Locke/Library of Congress The billboards, designed by the Campbell-Ewald Company, numbered 45,000 nationwide and were placed in every city with a population of over 2,500, reaching an estimated 65 million Americans daily. Those Americans included photographers for the Farm Security Administration, who were assigned to travel across the country documenting the struggles of the poor and government programs to aid them. Dorothea Lange, John Vachon, Arthur Rothstein, and Edwin Locke encountered the same juxtapositions that Bourke-White did. Under the shadows of cheery billboards proclaiming “There’s no way like the American Way,” they saw wandering migrants, destitute families and denuded landscapes. As the country climbed out of the Depression and moved toward victory in World War II, NAM moved on to publishing cartoons linking government investment to Nazism and communism. 1940 Dubuque, Iowa. Image: John Vachon/Library of Congress 1940 Dubuque, Iowa. Image: John Vachon/Library of Congress 1940 A man scavenges in the Dubuque city dump. Image: John Vachon/Library of Congress 1940 Dubuque, Iowa. Image: John Vachon/Library of Congress 1940 Children living in the river bottoms shacktown in Dubuque. Image: John Vachon/Library of Congress 1940 A sign in the river bottoms shacktown in Dubuque. Image: John Vachon/Library of Congress 1940 A resident of the river bottoms shacktown in Dubuque, Iowa. Image: John Vachon/Library of Congress 1937 Memphis, Tennessee during the Great Ohio River Flood. Image: Edwin Locke/Library of Congress 1937 Image: Edwin Locke/Library of Congress 1937 Memphis, Tennessee during the flood. Image: Edwin Locke/Library of Congress February 1937 Birmingham, Alabama. Image: Arthur Rothstein/Library of Congress February 1937 A migrant encampment in Birmingham, Alabama. Image: Arthur Rothstein/Library of Congress February 1937 Birmingham, Alabama. Image: Arthur Rothstein/Library of Congress February 1937 A migrant encampment in Birmingham, Alabama. Image: Arthur Rothstein/Library of Congress March 1937 Highway 99 in California. Image: Dorothea Lange/Library of Congress February 1937 A Missouri family of five fleeing drought on Highway 99 in California. Image: Dorothea Lange/Library of Congress March 1937 Highway 99 in California. Image: Dorothea Lange/Library of Congress February 1939 A homeless cotton-picking family of seven walk on Highway 99 from Phoenix, Arizona to San Diego in search of relief. Image: Dorothea Lange/Library of Congress March 1937 Highway 99 in California. Image: Dorothea Lange/Library of Congress November 1938 A family camps out behind a billboard on Highway 99 in Kern County, California. Image: Library of Congress  Curation:  Alex Q. Arbuckle  MORE FROM RETRONAUT Kindertransport: A desperate effort to save children from the Holocaust The old-school lumberjacks who felled giant trees with axes Antique mourning jewelry contained the hair of the deceased Rosie the Riveter IRL: Meet the women who built WWII planes The streets of 1970s New York City: A decade of urban decay 35 years ago, grief at the scene of John Lennon's murder This WWII women's dorm was the hippest spot in town Rarely seen images from the Walt Disney Archives White sand, black gold: When oil derricks loomed over California beaches Chicago in ruins: The unimaginable aftermath of the Great Fire of 1871 If Google Street View existed in 1911 Before the Holocaust, Nazis targeted so-called 'Gypsies'

In January 1937, while covering the disastrous flooding of the Ohio River in Louisville, Kentucky for LIFE Magazine, Margaret Bourke-White captured an image that quickly became famous and eventually rose to become an icon of the Great Depression.

The photo features a simple but sharply ironic juxtaposition: African-American flood victims line up for relief below a billboard with a beaming white family proclaiming WORLD’S HIGHEST STANDARD OF LIVING.

Though Bourke-White’s image was one-of-a-kind, the billboard was not. It was one of thousands erected across the country as part of a years-long propaganda campaign by the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM).

Founded in 1895, NAM became a harsh critic of labor unions and government regulation in the early years of the New Deal. In the 1930s, NAM launched a wide-ranging publicity effort involving millions of cartoons, newspaper columns, leaflets, films, and more, preaching the virtues of free enterprise and the dangers of state intervention.

Some of the billboards claimed WORLD'S SHORTEST WORKING HOURS as the result of unfettered markets, rather than decades of union struggle and government regulation.