Tuscaloosa bar apologizes after patrons allegedly ask former Clemson quarterback Deshaun Watson to leave
Watson allegedly run out of Tuscaloosa bar
Watson allegedly run out of Tuscaloosa bar How Jets can parlay Sheldon Richardson into a quarterback Super Bowl hangover: How often does a head coach overrule a coordinator? Division power rankings: From top to bottom, AFC West is NFL's best 32 NFL free agents who will make an impact from Day 1 Big-armed Patrick Mahomes would be fascinating project for Steelers Expectations for a Kirk Cousins deal remain low Before the Browns and Osweiler, Eagles 'bought a pick' with Sam Bradford Malcolm Butler's status should have more clarity by end of April Chargers' Gus Bradley leaned on Pete Carroll after leaving Jacksonville Pre-draft visit indicates Packers had not ruled out picking Joe Mixon Tom Brady receives $14 million deferred signing-bonus payment Friday Dolphins cutting ties with Dion Jordan was long overdue John Harbaugh believes shortened OT will reduce competitive disadvantage What you need to know about NFL's new rules for 2017 Field Yates says it's easy to understand why coaches and teammates love Deshaun Watson, but says Watson showed inconsistency with his throws during the middle of the college season. (2:07) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment After video circulated on social media of former Clemson quarterback Deshaun Watson allegedly being asked to leave a bar in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, on Friday, the establishment posted an apology to its customers and denied its employees were involved. The incident, caught on cellphone video and distributed on social media, showed Watson leaving the Innisfree Irish Pub after a conversation with other patrons. "Over the years we have had thousands of visitors from rival schools and have always treated them fairly. Today was not any different," the bar posted on Facebook. "The unfolding of (Friday's) events were not led by our staff or anyone employed by Innisfree Irish Pubs. "Unfortunately a customer attempted to invoke the right to refuse service on our behalf and after being identified, was immediately asked to leave the premises following the incident." Watson, who led Clemson to a 35-31 victory over Alabama in the College Football Playoff National Championship game in January, has not commented publicly on the incident. The patron who shot one of the videos declined comment when contacted by ESPN. "We apologize for any inconvenience this incident caused to our customers," the bar's statement continued. "We appreciate anyone that chooses to visit our establishment and hope to continue welcoming sports fans for years to come." Watson is No. 13 in ESPN's Mel Kiper's most recent mock draft . Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Field Yates says it's easy to understand why coaches and teammates love Deshaun Watson, but says Watson showed inconsistency with his throws during the middle of the college season. (2:07)

After video circulated on social media of former Clemson quarterback Deshaun Watson allegedly being asked to leave a bar in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, on Friday, the establishment posted an apology to its customers and denied its employees were involved.

The incident, caught on cellphone video and distributed on social media, showed Watson leaving the Innisfree Irish Pub after a conversation with other patrons.

"Over the years we have had thousands of visitors from rival schools and have always treated them fairly. Today was not any different," the bar posted on Facebook. "The unfolding of (Friday's) events were not led by our staff or anyone employed by Innisfree Irish Pubs.

"Unfortunately a customer attempted to invoke the right to refuse service on our behalf and after being identified, was immediately asked to leave the premises following the incident."

Watson, who led Clemson to a 35-31 victory over Alabama in the College Football Playoff National Championship game in January, has not commented publicly on the incident.

The patron who shot one of the videos declined comment when contacted by ESPN.

"We apologize for any inconvenience this incident caused to our customers," the bar's statement continued. "We appreciate anyone that chooses to visit our establishment and hope to continue welcoming sports fans for years to come."

Watson is No. 13 in ESPN's Mel Kiper's most recent mock draft.