Executive Edge
Executive Edge


If you want to earn the big bucks, you may want to consider practicing medicine or law.

According to a report by Glassdoor in March, doctors and lawyers are still the nation's top-earning professionals. To compile its list of the highest-paying jobs in America in 2016, the job search site analyzed anonymous salary reports from its users.

For a job to make the list, there had to be at least 75 reports on that job submitted over the past year. C-level jobs were excluded from the report.

Here are the 25 best-paying jobs, according to Glassdoor:

Median base salary: $180,000

Not only is this the top-paying job in the U.S., but employment for medical doctors is projected to grow 14 percent from 2014 to 2024, twice as fast as the average for all occupations, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Median base salary: $144,500



While pay can vary depending on what type of law you practice, the median salary is high enough to make lawyer the second best-paying job in America. What's more, Glassdoor's job listing page shows more than 9,000 openings.

Median base salary: $142,120



Research and development managers have a variety of roles that depend on the employer, from improving product design and leading new partnerships to overseeing staff.

Median base salary: $132,000



Software development managers develop and oversee the systems behind computer programs. The outlook for this job is bright; it's expected to grow 17 percent from 2014 to 2024.

Median base salary: $130,000



This managerial position usually requires years of experience in addition to a doctoral degree, which all pharmacists are required to have.

Median base salary: $130,000



Strategy managers often oversee a company's plans to develop partnerships, encourage growth and launch new profit-driving initiatives. A bachelor's degree is required, and some employers also require a master's, Glassdoor's listings show.

Median base salary: $128,250



Software architects create computer programs and communicate technical plans to company leaders. A bachelor of science degree is usually required.

Median base salary: $127,500



Integrated circuit designer engineers provide electrical design and development support and solve technical hardware problems. Most have a B.S. or Master's of Science degree in electrical engineering.

Median base salary: $120,000



Information technology managers make sure that all of their company's equipment, software and networks operate smoothly, and they execute the IT goals of the organization. IT managers usually have a bachelor's degree in the field along with various technical skills.

Median base salary: $120,000



Solutions architects lead or help in the design of products and projects, and are also heavily involved in the technical side of creating them. Education requirements vary, ranging from a bachelor's degree in computer systems or information systems to a master's in engineering or marketing.

Median base salary: $120,000



Engagement managers are responsible for client relationships. The role requires skills in marketing and project management. Software or technical skills can be useful.

Median base salary: $120,000

These managers oversee and improve internal systems and software. A bachelor's degree and several years of experience in the field is required.

Median base salary: $118,000



Pharmacists are well-paid but can have long hours and may have to work weekend shifts. They must have a doctoral degree to practice.



Median base salary: $116,920



These architects build and maintain a company's databases, software and system coding. A bachelor's or master's degree in engineering, computer science or a related field is required.



Median base salary: $115,000



Finance managers "produce financial reports, direct investment activities and develop strategies and plans for the long-term financial goals of their organization," according to the BLS. They usually have five or more years of experience in finance, accounting or a related field, in addition to a bachelor's degree.

Median base salary: $115,000



Computer and data research scientists solve complex problems in computing. Demand is projected to grow 11 percent from 2014 to 2024, which is faster than average.



Median base salary: $115,000



Risk managers deal with insurance, liability and legal compliance. The job's function and education requirements vary greatly, depending on the industry.

Read More