Here Are the Best and Worst 2017 April Fools' Day Pranks So Far
Here Are the Best and Worst 2017 April Fools' Day Pranks So Far
You know what 2017 is in desperate need of? Fake news stories. Luckily for us, April Fool’s Day has finally arrived to give us our much-needed fix, bringing a wave of pranks by companies, media outlets, and that annoying friend. Some of the stunts are admittedly funny, some are almost convincing , but most, unfortunately, fall flat. To help you sift through all the April 1 high jinks, we’ve assembled a list of some the best and worst April Fools’ Day 2017 gags below. Did you fall for any of them? Hulu's "Hu" The on-demand service released a promotion video for their new "Hu" feature, which allows subscribers to watch films and shows in eight-second hits. "Micro content, massive scale." Netflix Live Introducing Netflix Live. pic.twitter.com/CSeKtGHF3g The entertainment company released a 48-minute sneak peek at its new show . The bogus program featured Will Arnett providing amusing commentary over incredibly boring footage. Though it has since been "canceled," you can still stream it today. Mass Appeal's XXXTentacion Exclusive fooled its readers with a bogus XXXtentacion interview, in which the rapper declared his support for Donald Trump. "“I fuxxx with Trump. He fuxxx with Florida heavy, and he’s the fuckin’ President. If we don’t give him a chance, we all doomed." Siri's Got Jokes Oh that Siri... #AprilFools  pic.twitter.com/r3sMhSQMQ5 Siri got @7GoldLampstands on April fools pic.twitter.com/lI74AE48oZ The voice-command feature trolled iPhone users with some pretty random responses. Lucid Mattress' The Harambed The mattress company released an ad promoting, what they describe as, "the bed of your memes." The product is "available in twin, queen or King Kong." Russia Offers Election Interference Service The Russian Foreign Ministry posted a Facebook video featuring a proposed voicemail message. Delivered in Russian and English, the caller is given the following prompts: press 1 "to arrange a call from a Russian diplomat to your political opponent"; press 2 "to use the services of Russian hackers"; or press 3 "to request election interference and wait till the next campaign." Honda Horn Emojis The automaker announced it was giving its customers a selection of honks to convey a wide range of scenarios, including the Happy Honda Honk emoji, the Honda Dog emoji, and the Rush Hour Traffic emoji. Zappos Invisible Boxes In an effort to prevent theft of deliveries, Zappos is rolling out its new "In Secure Box." Advertised as "the first-ever unstealable box," this package turns transparent on your doorstep, making it invisible to passersby. Hot Topic Dating App Find hot goth, emo, and scene kids in your area and never be forever alone again. Find your match here: https://t.co/Bo6egQ4Ql1  pic.twitter.com/nYH6Hzz5XS Because scene kids need love too. George Takei 2018 Well, the cat's out of the bag it seems. Let's do this! #Takei2018  https://t.co/Wf7qvV1eXj It was reported that actor would run for Congress against Republican David Nunes next year. Though we wouldn't be mad about this, it unfortunately isn't true. No, I'm not running for Congress. Happy 4/1!  But Jon Ossoff is on 4/18. Help him win at https://t.co/ctCcRiYcdL . Let's flip Congress in '18 pic.twitter.com/41uj6l3yt7 Prune-Flavored Condoms for Old People Think it's silly to wrap that willy? You're never too old for #safesex ! Introducing OurTime #condoms ! Buy now https://t.co/3XkWwfrr1B  pic.twitter.com/sqBd1sOKSs OurTime, dating app for those over 50, stayed on brand with the introduction of prune-flavored condoms. Michael Phelps Teases a Comeback Michael Phelps, who came out of retirement to compete in the 2016 Rio Olympics and won five gold medals and a silver, made a stunning announcement this morning that he would be making another comeback in 2020. Phelps at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics?! Some dreams/goals you just can't get rid of...been doing a lot of thinking n I've decided that I'm going 2 make another comeback! # # I'm not actually coming sorry for getting some of hopes  https://t.co/ Just kidding. Smh, this holiday, man.

You know what 2017 is in desperate need of? Fake news stories.

Luckily for us, April Fool’s Day has finally arrived to give us our much-needed fix, bringing a wave of pranks by companies, media outlets, and that annoying friend. Some of the stunts are admittedly funny, some are almost convincing, but most, unfortunately, fall flat. To help you sift through all the April 1 high jinks, we’ve assembled a list of some the best and worst April Fools’ Day 2017 gags below. Did you fall for any of them?

Hulu's "Hu"



The on-demand service released a promotion video for their new "Hu" feature, which allows subscribers to watch films and shows in eight-second hits. "Micro content, massive scale."

Netflix Live

The entertainment company released a 48-minute sneak peek at its new show Netflix Live. The bogus program featured Will Arnett providing amusing commentary over incredibly boring footage. Though it has since been "canceled," you can still stream it today.

Mass Appeal's XXXTentacion Exclusive

Mass Appeal fooled its readers with a bogus XXXtentacion interview, in which the rapper declared his support for Donald Trump. "“I fuxxx with Trump. He fuxxx with Florida heavy, and he’s the fuckin’ President. If we don’t give him a chance, we all doomed."

Siri's Got Jokes

The voice-command feature trolled iPhone users with some pretty random responses.

Lucid Mattress' The Harambed



The mattress company released an ad promoting, what they describe as, "the bed of your memes." The product is "available in twin, queen or King Kong."

Russia Offers Election Interference Service

The Russian Foreign Ministry posted a Facebook video featuring a proposed voicemail message. Delivered in Russian and English, the caller is given the following prompts: press 1 "to arrange a call from a Russian diplomat to your political opponent"; press 2 "to use the services of Russian hackers"; or press 3 "to request election interference and wait till the next campaign."

Honda Horn Emojis



The automaker announced it was giving its customers a selection of honks to convey a wide range of scenarios, including the Happy Honda Honk emoji, the Honda Dog emoji, and the Rush Hour Traffic emoji.

Zappos Invisible Boxes



In an effort to prevent theft of deliveries, Zappos is rolling out its new "In Secure Box." Advertised as "the first-ever unstealable box," this package turns transparent on your doorstep, making it invisible to passersby.

Hot Topic Dating App

Find hot goth, emo, and scene kids in your area and never be forever alone again. Find your match here: https://t.co/Bo6egQ4Ql1 pic.twitter.com/nYH6Hzz5XS — Hot Topic (@HotTopic) April 1, 2017

Because scene kids need love too.

George Takei 2018

Well, the cat's out of the bag it seems. Let's do this! #Takei2018 https://t.co/Wf7qvV1eXj — George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) April 1, 2017

It was reported that Star Trek actor would run for Congress against Republican David Nunes next year. Though we wouldn't be mad about this, it unfortunately isn't true.

No, I'm not running for Congress. Happy 4/1!



But Jon Ossoff is on 4/18. Help him win at https://t.co/ctCcRiYcdL. Let's flip Congress in '18 pic.twitter.com/41uj6l3yt7 — George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) April 1, 2017

Prune-Flavored Condoms for Old People

Think it's silly to wrap that willy? You're never too old for #safesex! Introducing OurTime #condoms! Buy now https://t.co/3XkWwfrr1B pic.twitter.com/sqBd1sOKSs — OurTime Dating (@OurTimeDating) March 31, 2017

OurTime, dating app for those over 50, stayed on brand with the introduction of prune-flavored condoms.

Michael Phelps Teases a Comeback

Michael Phelps, who came out of retirement to compete in the 2016 Rio Olympics and won five gold medals and a silver, made a stunning announcement this morning that he would be making another comeback in 2020. Phelps at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics?!

Some dreams/goals you just can't get rid of...been doing a lot of thinking n I've decided that I'm going 2 make another comeback! #tokyo2020 — Michael Phelps ( @MichaelPhelps ) April 1, 2017

#aprilfools I'm not actually coming back😁 sorry for getting some of yalls hopes up🙊 https://t.co/GOp7osXCBF — Michael Phelps ( @MichaelPhelps ) April 1, 2017

Just kidding. Smh, this holiday, man.