Michael Jackson's Son Prince Pays Tribute to Dad With New Tattoo
Michael Jackson's Son Prince Pays Tribute to Dad With New Tattoo
Michael Jackson's Son Prince Pays Tribute to Dad With New Tattoo  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Prince Jackson, Michael Jackson 's eldest son (whose full name is Michael Joseph Jackson, Jr.), has honored his late father with an impressive tattoo adorning the lower half of his leg. "Thanks @dermagraphink for sittin 9hrs with me for such an incredible and beautiful tattoo," he wrote on Instagram, where he posted a video clip showing off his new ink. The tattoo depicts the King of Pop -- who passed away in 2009, at the age of 50 -- in one of his signature dance poses, legs crossed and hands (one wearing his white glove)Â high in the air. Wings unfurl, and what one can assume is pixie dust is sprinkled at his feet.  It's not the first time one of Jackson's children hasÂ paid homage to their dad by getting tattooed: daughter Paris has a large tattoo inspired by Jackson's artwork , as well as "Queen of My Heart" inked in her father's handwriting. Thanks @dermagraphink for sittin 9hrs with me for such an incredible and beautiful tattoo. I will be posting more of this A post shared by Prince Jackson (@princejackson) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Prince Jackson attends the 25th Annual Elton John AIDS Foundation's Academy Awards Viewing Party at The City of West Hollywood Park on Feb. 26, 2017 in West Hollywood, Calif.

Prince Jackson, Michael Jackson's eldest son (whose full name is Michael Joseph Jackson, Jr.), has honored his late father with an impressive tattoo adorning the lower half of his leg.

"Thanks @dermagraphink for sittin 9hrs with me for such an incredible and beautiful tattoo," he wrote on Instagram, where he posted a video clip showing off his new ink.

The tattoo depicts the King of Pop -- who passed away in 2009, at the age of 50 -- in one of his signature dance poses, legs crossed and hands (one wearing his white glove)Â high in the air. Wings unfurl, and what one can assume is pixie dust is sprinkled at his feet.

It's not the first time one of Jackson's children hasÂ paid homage to their dad by getting tattooed: daughter Paris has a large tattoo inspired by Jackson's Dangerous artwork, as well as "Queen of My Heart" inked in her father's handwriting.