Pilots of 2 small planes dead in mid-air collision in Central Florida
Pilots of 2 small planes dead in mid-air collision in Central Florida
Florida Pilots of 2 small planes dead in mid-air collision in Central Florida Police cordoned off the area where two small planes collided Saturday morning in Edgewater, Fla., leaving 2 people dead.
	                        
	                        	 (Fox 35 Orlando) The pilots of two small planes were killed Saturday in a mid-air collision near I-95 in Central Florida, according to reports. “What I can tell you is a witness reported seeing two small airplanes collide, separate and fall to the ground,” Edgewater Police Chief David Arciero told the Daytona Beach News-Journal . #BREAKING : the planes that crashed after colliding #edgewater just north of 442near I95 this am.  Down in woods. Both pilots killed pic.twitter.com/BIQH4uWy1c The crash site was in the vicinity of State Road 442 near Interstate 95 in Edgewater, Fox 35 Orlando reported. Emergency crews responded around 8:45 a.m. Megan O’Keefe, of Edgewater, told the News-Journal she saw the collision. She said the two planes were flying in formation with several other planes at the time. “We were in the woods, trying to find smoke but it was too far,” O’Keefe said. Another witness told the paper, “They were flying in formation. The front had an issue. The plane started falling. One wing went into the other (plane). It went into a spin. And the other one fell backwards.” Fox 35 reported that investigators with the NTSB were at the scene.

The pilots of two small planes were killed Saturday in a mid-air collision near I-95 in Central Florida, according to reports.

“What I can tell you is a witness reported seeing two small airplanes collide, separate and fall to the ground,” Edgewater Police Chief David Arciero told the Daytona Beach News-Journal.

#BREAKING: the planes that crashed after colliding #edgewater just north of 442near I95 this am. Down in woods. Both pilots killed pic.twitter.com/BIQH4uWy1c — claire metz (@clairemetzwesh) April 1, 2017

The crash site was in the vicinity of State Road 442 near Interstate 95 in Edgewater, Fox 35 Orlando reported. Emergency crews responded around 8:45 a.m.

FLORIDA PLANE TRIES NAIL-BITING TOUCHDOWN WITHOUT LANDING GEAR

Megan O’Keefe, of Edgewater, told the News-Journal she saw the collision. She said the two planes were flying in formation with several other planes at the time.

“We were in the woods, trying to find smoke but it was too far,” O’Keefe said.

Another witness told the paper, “They were flying in formation. The front had an issue. The plane started falling. One wing went into the other (plane). It went into a spin. And the other one fell backwards.”

Fox 35 reported that investigators with the NTSB were at the scene.