The Trump Administration Banned Laptops, So One Airline Is Passing Them Out
Trump Banned Laptops, So One Airline Is Passing Them Out
One friendly airline bought laptops to loan its passengers on flights affected by the Trump administration ’s new electronics ban. The rule, which took effect on Saturday , forbids any device larger than a smartphone on flights to the U.S. from parts of the Middle East and North Africa. Qatar Airways announced on Thursday it will provide free laptops for passengers in business class so they can keep working while they fly. It's 'Business As Usual' on all United States flights with our complimentary Laptop Loan Service https://t.co/uYMWPHnltg  #ElectronicsBan  pic.twitter.com/kB31u1opuw Business travelers on Qatar will receive a USB device before boarding so they can download work from their personal computers. They’ll then have to pass their personal laptops to gate staff to be stowed with the plane’s checked baggage, and continue where they left off on the loaners. Some of the nine airlines hit with the ban have responded with free Wi-Fi and iPads, but Qatar is the first to buy computers for travelers’ use. The airline “has taken the notable step to purchase laptops available for loan on all of their U.S. flights, meaning uninterrupted productivity and service throughout their journey,” chief executive Akbar Al Baker said in a press release. “...We have not rested until we could offer a true solution to our passengers.” Non-business travelers on Qatar will get an hour of free Wi-Fi and a special rate of $5 for access for an entire flight. Meanwhile, Emirates launched its own gate-check service for laptops and tablets. Our new service lets customers use their laptops and tablet devices until they board their flights to the US. https://t.co/n0E7Iq1KKf  pic.twitter.com/D51iiKE7Gk Etihad is offering free Wi-Fi and loaner iPads in some classes. All the cool stuff happens on the internet anyway. Free Wi-Fi & iPads on our US flights. Learn more: https://t.co/HU8g5GASY1  #ElectronicsBan  pic.twitter.com/Uy8M8WMELB And Turkish Airlines is rolling out free Wi-Fi. Hand in your tablets/laptops during boarding to USA and use our free inflight WIFI service starting on March 31st. pic.twitter.com/LoqMOAapij While the ban is inconvenient, aviation experts say it could be based on a legitimate threat . Kudos to these airlines for making the best of a sticky situation. ALSO ON HUFFPOST The 10 Best Coach-Class Airlines in the World       Share this slide:       MORE:

Qatar Airways announced on Thursday it will provide free laptops for passengers in business class so they can keep working while they fly.

It's 'Business As Usual' on all United States flights with our complimentary Laptop Loan Service https://t.co/uYMWPHnltg #ElectronicsBan pic.twitter.com/kB31u1opuw — Qatar Airways (@qatarairways) March 30, 2017

Business travelers on Qatar will receive a USB device before boarding so they can download work from their personal computers. They’ll then have to pass their personal laptops to gate staff to be stowed with the plane’s checked baggage, and continue where they left off on the loaners.

Some of the nine airlines hit with the ban have responded with free Wi-Fi and iPads, but Qatar is the first to buy computers for travelers’ use.

The airline “has taken the notable step to purchase laptops available for loan on all of their U.S. flights, meaning uninterrupted productivity and service throughout their journey,” chief executive Akbar Al Baker said in a press release. “...We have not rested until we could offer a true solution to our passengers.”

Non-business travelers on Qatar will get an hour of free Wi-Fi and a special rate of $5 for access for an entire flight.

Meanwhile, Emirates launched its own gate-check service for laptops and tablets.

Our new service lets customers use their laptops and tablet devices until they board their flights to the US. https://t.co/n0E7Iq1KKf pic.twitter.com/D51iiKE7Gk — Emirates airline (@emirates) March 23, 2017

Etihad is offering free Wi-Fi and loaner iPads in some classes.

All the cool stuff happens on the internet anyway. Free Wi-Fi & iPads on our US flights. Learn more: https://t.co/HU8g5GASY1 #ElectronicsBan pic.twitter.com/Uy8M8WMELB — Etihad Airways (@EtihadAirways) March 29, 2017

And Turkish Airlines is rolling out free Wi-Fi.

Hand in your tablets/laptops during boarding to USA and use our free inflight WIFI service starting on March 31st. pic.twitter.com/LoqMOAapij — Turkish Airlines (@TurkishAirlines) March 28, 2017