Liked ‘Serial’? Here’s Why the True-Crime Podcast ‘S-Town’ Is Better
Liked ‘Serial’? Here’s Why the True-Crime Podcast ‘S-Town’ Is Better
In 2014, the true-crime podcast “ Serial ” began like this: A tipster asked a radio journalist to investigate a murder. “S-Town,” the new narrative podcast from the creators of “Serial,” kicks off in a similar fashion. This time, the tipster is John B. McLemore, an eccentric antique clock restorer from Woodstock, Ala. The journalist is Brian Reed, a longtime producer for “This American Life.” When Mr. McLemore tells Mr. Reed that a Woodstock rich boy got away with murder and has been bragging about it ever since, Mr. Reed agrees to head down from New York to check it out. But it soon becomes clear that the homicide story is a bit of a red herring. It’s the hook to get Mr. Reed on the line. Mr. Reed has used a similar tactic to draw his podcast audience into the story, with a teaser for the series that emphasizes the murder. Some “Serial” fans may be disappointed to learn that the crew’s latest offering is not a straightforward whodunit. They shouldn’t be. “S-Town” turns out to be much more interesting than that. “S-Town” is not another tale of a journalist trying to solve a murder with just a microphone and a little elbow grease, and thank God. Instead, “S-Town” transcends the podcast procedural with a destabilizing narrative structure in which one small-town mystery leads to another, all surrounding Mr. McLemore and his acquaintances. There is that murder, but also a treasure hunt, a land grab and a mysterious benefactor. Mr. Reed’s investigation turns psychological and emotional — into how people come to be branded as bad, and the hidden relationships among men in the rural South. “S-Town” — which is executive produced by Mr. Reed and the “Serial” producer Julie Snyder, with editorial input from the “Serial” host, Sarah Koenig, and the host of “This American Life,” Ira Glass — is not “Serial” Season 3. It’s kind of a podcast spinoff, and it unfolds more like a novel than a true-crime procedural. Mr. McLemore is its beguiling principal character. He’s got a backyard labyrinth, gold buried in an undisclosed location and a literary flair that turns small-town life into big drama. He’s the peppiest pessimist south of the Mason-Dixon line. Advertisement The “S” in “S-Town” is shorthand for a four-letter word — Mr. McLemore’s preferred nickname for his hometown. He has a talent for profane rants about civilization’s downfall that he delivers in an Alabama drawl. In one diatribe, he rails against a nation of people who are “whiny, fat, flabby, out of shape, Facebook-lookin’, damn twerk-fest, peekin’ out the windows and snoopin’ around, listening on the cellphones and spyin’ in the peephole and peepin’ in the crack of the goddamn door, listenin’ in the [expletive] Sheetrock.” Mr. McLemore takes a breath. “I gotta have me some tea.” Advertisement The chief innovation of “Serial” in its first season , which set out to reinvestigate the 1999 murder of a Baltimore high school student, was in the exposure of the inner workings of a journalistic criminal investigation as it happened. (The podcast’s underwhelming second season, which dug into the already high-profile case of the American G.I. Bowe Bergdahl’s desertion, benefited less from that behind-the-scenes aspect.) In “S-Town,” Mr. Reed illuminates a different kind of reportorial experience. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Almost every journalist has met people like Mr. McLemore, sources who email you under pseudonyms with tips a little too good to be true. Often they seem to mostly want someone to talk to, and to have their experiences validated by a journalist, whose job, after all, is to decide what’s important and true. Most reporters would stop taking those calls when the story ideas don’t bear fruit, but not Mr. Reed. He finds Mr. McLemore’s life important in and of itself, and a whole world opens up to him. A disappointment of the first season of “Serial” was that so many of its central players refused to talk — an understandable response to a journalist’s digging up of a 15-year-old tragedy already decided upon by the courts. That often made for uncomfortable listening, as these actual people were posited as possible murder suspects on the basis of one-sided claims. Accusations, criminal and otherwise, fly in “S-Town,” too, but Mr. Reed manages to speak with just about all of the pivotal characters in the story, deftly interviewing them in a way that generates sympathy for their perspectives and illuminates their charms. Meeting these people provides delightful little surprises throughout the narrative: Among them is Uncle Jimmy, who communicates exclusively through shouted affirmations, and a man who divides his life into two eras: before and after the 2005 release of “Brokeback Mountain.” Also, “S-Town” mercifully departs from “Serial” by releasing all of its seven episodes at once. The publish-as-you-go, seat-of-your-pants style of “Serial” and stylistic offshoots like “Missing Richard Simmons” holds an addictive appeal, but it’s also a risky gambit that rarely pays off. The inevitable internet-fueled frenzy to help crowdsource the mystery quickly turns the whole exercise into a dehumanizing game. It doesn’t work. Advertisement Such podcasts often raise high expectations — let’s solve a murder, or at least flush out a reclusive celebrity — only to end in shrugs. Assembling the whole story before its release frees Mr. Reed to pace out a real narrative, including an emotional twist at the end of the second episode that turns the whole thing upside down. You should probably start listening now before somebody spoils the twist. But then, take your time with the story — “S-Town” is so much more than its central mystery. Follow Amanda Hess on Twitter @amandahess . S-Town Streaming on iTunes and available at stownpodcast.org . A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 2017, on Page C1 of the with the headline: So, You Liked ‘Serial’? ‘S-Town’ Is Even Better.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. THE MEDIA EQUATION

The “S” in “S-Town” is shorthand for a four-letter word — Mr. McLemore’s preferred nickname for his hometown. He has a talent for profane rants about civilization’s downfall that he delivers in an Alabama drawl. In one diatribe, he rails against a nation of people who are “whiny, fat, flabby, out of shape, Facebook-lookin’, damn twerk-fest, peekin’ out the windows and snoopin’ around, listening on the cellphones and spyin’ in the peephole and peepin’ in the crack of the goddamn door, listenin’ in the [expletive] Sheetrock.” Mr. McLemore takes a breath. “I gotta have me some tea.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The chief innovation of “Serial” in its first season, which set out to reinvestigate the 1999 murder of a Baltimore high school student, was in the exposure of the inner workings of a journalistic criminal investigation as it happened. (The podcast’s underwhelming second season, which dug into the already high-profile case of the American G.I. Bowe Bergdahl’s desertion, benefited less from that behind-the-scenes aspect.) In “S-Town,” Mr. Reed illuminates a different kind of reportorial experience.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Almost every journalist has met people like Mr. McLemore, sources who email you under pseudonyms with tips a little too good to be true. Often they seem to mostly want someone to talk to, and to have their experiences validated by a journalist, whose job, after all, is to decide what’s important and true. Most reporters would stop taking those calls when the story ideas don’t bear fruit, but not Mr. Reed. He finds Mr. McLemore’s life important in and of itself, and a whole world opens up to him.

A disappointment of the first season of “Serial” was that so many of its central players refused to talk — an understandable response to a journalist’s digging up of a 15-year-old tragedy already decided upon by the courts. That often made for uncomfortable listening, as these actual people were posited as possible murder suspects on the basis of one-sided claims.

Accusations, criminal and otherwise, fly in “S-Town,” too, but Mr. Reed manages to speak with just about all of the pivotal characters in the story, deftly interviewing them in a way that generates sympathy for their perspectives and illuminates their charms. Meeting these people provides delightful little surprises throughout the narrative: Among them is Uncle Jimmy, who communicates exclusively through shouted affirmations, and a man who divides his life into two eras: before and after the 2005 release of “Brokeback Mountain.”

Also, “S-Town” mercifully departs from “Serial” by releasing all of its seven episodes at once. The publish-as-you-go, seat-of-your-pants style of “Serial” and stylistic offshoots like “Missing Richard Simmons” holds an addictive appeal, but it’s also a risky gambit that rarely pays off. The inevitable internet-fueled frenzy to help crowdsource the mystery quickly turns the whole exercise into a dehumanizing game. It doesn’t work.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Such podcasts often raise high expectations — let’s solve a murder, or at least flush out a reclusive celebrity — only to end in shrugs. Assembling the whole story before its release frees Mr. Reed to pace out a real narrative, including an emotional twist at the end of the second episode that turns the whole thing upside down. You should probably start listening now before somebody spoils the twist. But then, take your time with the story — “S-Town” is so much more than its central mystery.