Elizabeth Thomas, missing Tenn. teen, was spotted with teacher Tad Cummins in Okla.
Elizabeth Thomas, missing Tenn. teen, was spotted with teacher Tad Cummins in Okla.
Surveillance images from an Oklahoma City Walmart March 15 show missing teen Elizabeth Thomas and the man suspected of abducting her, her teacher Tad Cummins, according to the TBI                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Tennessee authorities say there’s been a confirmed sighting in Oklahoma of a 15-year-old girl who disappeared more than two weeks ago with her 50-year-old teacher. SIGHTING CONFIRMED: We can place Tad Cummins and Elizabeth Thomas in Oklahoma City, OK earlier this month. Tap the pictures for the latest in our ongoing search. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation says surveillance images obtained from a Walmart in Oklahoma City show teacher Tad Cummins and Elizabeth Thomas purchasing food items in the store with cash. The statement says the images captured on March 15 show Cummins had altered his hair to appear darker and Thomas may have changed her hair color to red. Tad Cummins and Elizabeth Thomas. The two were reported missing on March 13 from Culleoka, a Tennessee community about 60 miles south of Nashville. Police have issued an Amber Alert for Thomas and say they have warrants charging Cummins with sexual contact with a minor and aggravated kidnapping.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- Tennessee authorities say there’s been a confirmed sighting in Oklahoma of a 15-year-old girl who disappeared more than two weeks ago with her 50-year-old teacher.

SIGHTING CONFIRMED: We can place Tad Cummins and Elizabeth Thomas in Oklahoma City, OK earlier this month. Tap the pictures for the latest in our ongoing search. Posted by Tennessee Bureau of Investigation on Friday, March 31, 2017

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation says surveillance images obtained from a Walmart in Oklahoma City show teacher Tad Cummins and Elizabeth Thomas purchasing food items in the store with cash. The statement says the images captured on March 15 show Cummins had altered his hair to appear darker and Thomas may have changed her hair color to red.

CBS News

The two were reported missing on March 13 from Culleoka, a Tennessee community about 60 miles south of Nashville.

Police have issued an Amber Alert for Thomas and say they have warrants charging Cummins with sexual contact with a minor and aggravated kidnapping.