This Fearless Girl May Change The Face Of Wall Street For 1 More Year
This Fearless Girl May Change The Face Of Wall Street For 1 More Year
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack Friedman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. In this March 22, 2017 photo, the Charging Bull and Fearless Girl statues face each other on Lower Broadway in New York. Since 1989, the bronze bull has stood in New York City's financial district as an image of the might and hard-charging spirit of Wall Street. But the installation of the bold girl defiantly standing in the bull's path has transformed the meaning of one of New York's best-known public artworks. Pressure is mounting on the city to let the Fearless Girl stay. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan) New York Mayor Bill De Blasio announced Sunday that the sculpture - which State Street Global Advisors installed earlier this month opposite the iconic statue in celebration of International Women's Day - can stay in New York City's financial district through February 2018. “In her short time here, the has fueled powerful conversations about women in leadership and inspired so many,” De Blasio said in a statement. “Now, she’ll be asserting herself and affirming her strength even after her temporary permit expires – a fitting path for a girl who refuses to quit.” The bronze, Kristen Visbal-designed sculpture, which was expected to be removed from Bowling Green Park on April 2, will stay under the New York City Department of Transportation art program following support from political leaders and the generic public. "We would like to thank Mayor Di Blasio and the people around the world who have responded so enthusiastically to what the Fearless Girl represents — the power and potential of having more women in leadership,’’ Ron O’Hanley, president and chief executive of State Street Global Advisors, said in a statement. “We are thrilled that she can continue to share her positive message and inspire the next generation of women leaders." Public supporters will gather today to campaign to keep a permanent fixture in New York. “The importance of empowering women is not temporary, and Fearless Girl must become a permanent fixture in our city as a reminder to all women that no dream is too big and no ceiling is too high,” New York City Public Advocate Letitia James said in a statement. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

New York Mayor Bill De Blasio announced Sunday that the Fearless Girl sculpture - which State Street Global Advisors installed earlier this month opposite the iconic Charging Bull statue in celebration of International Women's Day - can stay in New York City's financial district through February 2018.

“In her short time here, the Fearless Girl has fueled powerful conversations about women in leadership and inspired so many,” De Blasio said in a statement. “Now, she’ll be asserting herself and affirming her strength even after her temporary permit expires – a fitting path for a girl who refuses to quit.”

The bronze, Kristen Visbal-designed sculpture, which was expected to be removed from Bowling Green Park on April 2, will stay under the New York City Department of Transportation art program following support from political leaders and the generic public.

"We would like to thank Mayor Di Blasio and the people around the world who have responded so enthusiastically to what the Fearless Girl represents — the power and potential of having more women in leadership,’’ Ron O’Hanley, president and chief executive of State Street Global Advisors, said in a statement. “We are thrilled that she can continue to share her positive message and inspire the next generation of women leaders."

Public supporters will gather today to campaign to keep Fearless Girl a permanent fixture in New York.

“The importance of empowering women is not temporary, and Fearless Girl must become a permanent fixture in our city as a reminder to all women that no dream is too big and no ceiling is too high,” New York City Public Advocate Letitia James said in a statement.