Fracking inquiry in Northern Territory to commission two more independent reviews



Fracking inquiry in Northern Territory to commission two more independent reviews

Posted

The Northern Territory's independent review into fracking is commissioning two more independent reviews of the industry.

The inquiry's chair, Justice Rachel Pepper, told the Amateur Fisherman's Association of the Northern Territory's annual general meeting in Darwin it was looking for an independent economic expert to model what the industry's impact would be on jobs, the economy and other industries, including tourism, if the NT's moratorium on fracking is lifted.

"There are gaps in the knowledge and expertise in the panel. I don't have an economist," Justice Pepper said.

"Some of you may have read in the paper about the recent Deloitte report that gave, I think it's fair to say, a courageous report on the number of jobs [and] money that this industry might bring in if the moratorium is lifted."

Justice Pepper said the inquiry was also commissioning a social impact assessment.

"Obviously we can't model the entirety of the NT for that purpose, but we do have some information now coming out from the Beetaloo Basin where there is a very large potential shale gas reservoir," Justice Pepper said.

"We've got some information coming out from the recent material and documents, coming out of Origin, that have drilled and fracked a well up there prior to the moratorium.

"So we use that information to say, if the Gunner Government lifted the moratorium and if this industry basically began to operate in that area, what would the social impact be of that type of industry in that area?"

Fracking companies 'should fund long-term research'

Pensioner Kenny Woo told Justice Pepper fracking companies should be held accountable for any possible future impacts.

"When they leave they must set up a trust with adequate funds to pay the cost of monitoring and movement of chemicals through the soil and also research, long-term research, about the effects on the human body," he said.

Justice Pepper said the inquiry was already looking closely at the development of a separate fund.

"It's certainly something the inquiry is conscious of, the issue of, I've wrapped it up, generally of legacy mines, but I think it covers all sorts of extractive industries and this would be no different," Justice Pepper said.

"… I would imagine the gas companies could put their hands in their pockets for that, absolutely."

Topics: mining-environmental-issues, mining-industry, environment, environmental-impact, darwin-0800, nt