Trump aide lashes out at Freedom Caucus lawmaker
Trump aide lashes out at Freedom Caucus lawmaker
Shares               The president isn't the only person bashing his Republican detractors on Twitter. Top White House aide Dan Scavino on Saturday urged President Trump 's supporters to take down Rep. Justin Amash -- an outspoken member of the House Freedom Caucus who has repeatedly criticized the commander-in-chief -- in his next primary.  . @realDonaldTrump is bringing auto plants & jobs back to Michigan. @justinamash is a big liability. #TrumpTrain , defeat him in primary.  The Michigan Republican lashed back with a hashtag of his own: #Trumpstablishment.  Trump admin & Establishment have merged into #Trumpstablishment . Same old agenda: Attack conservatives, libertarians & independent thinkers. https://t.co/ALcV59iHXx  But according to a pair of lawyers from former presidential administrations, Scavino's tweet may be a violation of federal law. Richard W. Painter, former President George W. Bush's chief ethics lawyer and a vocal critic of the Trump administration who is now part of a watchdog group suing the president for alleged violations of the emoluments clause, suggested that Scavino's tweet may have violated the Hatch Act , a law governing how and when executive branch employees can engage in political campaigning. According to Office of Special Counsel guidelines, employees may express their opinions about political candidates on social media -- except while "on duty," "in the workplace," or "referring to their official title or position." Scavino's Twitter account is described as "personal" in the bio, but Painter said that because he uses an official White House photo, lists his title, and regularly tweets content related to his job, his tweet about Amash may have violated the Hatch prohibition against federal employees seeking to influence the result of an election using their official authority.  Ethics 101- You can't put official titles and WH photos all over your "personal" Twitter page and use it for partisan politics. Hatch Act   This is use of official position to influence an election. Look at the photo and description underneath. Bush WH would have fired him https://t.co/xTAcfIv3K3  Daniel Jacobson, who was a lawyer in the Obama administration, also said the tweet appears to be a Hatch Act violation.  This violates the Hatch Act. WH staff can't use an official or de facto govt Twitter acct (which this is) to call for defeat of a candidate https://t.co/qFUSd8xVeQ  Neither the White House nor the Office of Special Counsel responded to requests to comment on Scavino's tweet and the claims of a Hatch Act violation. Amash and Scavino's Twitter tiff comes on the heels of Trump's pledge to "fight" the Freedom Caucus in 2018.  The Freedom Caucus will hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don't get on the team, & fast. We must fight them, & Dems, in 2018!  Several members of the caucus, which consists of several dozen conservative and libertarian lawmakers, refused to support the GOP 's Obamacare-replacement bill, scrapped amid rampant party-infighting on March 24. House Speaker Paul Ryan , who championed the bill, told reporters he understood Trump's frustration. "He is just expressing his frustration," the speaker said. "I share that frustration ... we haven't gotten to where we need to go." Nevertheless, Amash responded to Trump's criticism of his caucus, calling the plan "Swampcare" and claiming the president had succumbed "to the D.C. Establishment."  It didn't take long for the swamp to drain @realDonaldTrump . No shame, Mr. President. Almost everyone succumbs to the D.C. Establishment. https://t.co/9bDo8yzH7I   Didn't vote for #Swampcare because it's just another version of #Obamacare —and just as dysfunctional (which is pretty hard to pull off). https://t.co/qSYB1AO6BP  Shares                  Trump aide lashes out at Freedom Caucus lawmaker   Mass. city council to vote on Trump impeachment resolution   Bed Bath & Beyond: We still carry Ivanka Trump-branded items   Former National Security Adviser Flynn didn't initially disclose Russia speeches   Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner worth up to $740 million   White House officials played role in surfacing documents Nunes viewed   Nunes met by about 300 protesters upon returning to his district   Top Senate Dem slams GSA for OK'ing Trump hotel lease   Everything you need to know about the trade deficit   White House allowing public to request financials for senior staff   Flynn’s Russia connections back in the spotlight   Sunday on ‘This Week’: Ambassador Nikki Haley, Ash Carter, Sen. John McCain, and Dmitry Peskov   Justice Sotomayor, at Princeton, avoids any talk of Gorsuch   1 child dead after 7 found unconscious from carbon-monoxide at Michigan hotel pool   Pentagon seizing more control over warfighting   Barbershop finds success in out-of-the-box idea to get kids reading   London attack victim stands on her own after broken leg   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   7-year-old basketball star gets a special surprise from Harlem Globetrotters   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   Teacher raises $80K for bikes for elementary school's entire student body   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service

The president isn't the only person bashing his Republican detractors on Twitter.

Top White House aide Dan Scavino on Saturday urged President Trump's supporters to take down Rep. Justin Amash -- an outspoken member of the House Freedom Caucus who has repeatedly criticized the commander-in-chief -- in his next primary.

.@realDonaldTrump is bringing auto plants & jobs back to Michigan. @justinamash is a big liability.#TrumpTrain, defeat him in primary. — Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) April 1, 2017

The Michigan Republican lashed back with a hashtag of his own: #Trumpstablishment.

Trump admin & Establishment have merged into #Trumpstablishment. Same old agenda: Attack conservatives, libertarians & independent thinkers. https://t.co/ALcV59iHXx — Justin Amash (@justinamash) April 1, 2017

But according to a pair of lawyers from former presidential administrations, Scavino's tweet may be a violation of federal law.

Richard W. Painter, former President George W. Bush's chief ethics lawyer and a vocal critic of the Trump administration who is now part of a watchdog group suing the president for alleged violations of the emoluments clause, suggested that Scavino's tweet may have violated the Hatch Act, a law governing how and when executive branch employees can engage in political campaigning.

According to Office of Special Counsel guidelines, employees may express their opinions about political candidates on social media -- except while "on duty," "in the workplace," or "referring to their official title or position."

Scavino's Twitter account is described as "personal" in the bio, but Painter said that because he uses an official White House photo, lists his title, and regularly tweets content related to his job, his tweet about Amash may have violated the Hatch prohibition against federal employees seeking to influence the result of an election using their official authority.

Ethics 101- You can't put official titles and WH photos all over your "personal" Twitter page and use it for partisan politics. Hatch Act — Richard W. Painter (@RWPUSA) April 1, 2017

This is use of official position to influence an election. Look at the photo and description underneath. Bush WH would have fired him https://t.co/xTAcfIv3K3 — Richard W. Painter (@RWPUSA) April 1, 2017

Daniel Jacobson, who was a lawyer in the Obama administration, also said the tweet appears to be a Hatch Act violation.

This violates the Hatch Act. WH staff can't use an official or de facto govt Twitter acct (which this is) to call for defeat of a candidate https://t.co/qFUSd8xVeQ — Daniel Jacobson (@Dan_F_Jacobson) April 1, 2017

Neither the White House nor the Office of Special Counsel responded to requests to comment on Scavino's tweet and the claims of a Hatch Act violation.

Amash and Scavino's Twitter tiff comes on the heels of Trump's pledge to "fight" the Freedom Caucus in 2018.

The Freedom Caucus will hurt the entire Republican agenda if they don't get on the team, & fast. We must fight them, & Dems, in 2018! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 30, 2017

Several members of the caucus, which consists of several dozen conservative and libertarian lawmakers, refused to support the GOP's Obamacare-replacement bill, scrapped amid rampant party-infighting on March 24.

House Speaker Paul Ryan, who championed the bill, told reporters he understood Trump's frustration.

"He is just expressing his frustration," the speaker said. "I share that frustration ... we haven't gotten to where we need to go."

Nevertheless, Amash responded to Trump's criticism of his caucus, calling the plan "Swampcare" and claiming the president had succumbed "to the D.C. Establishment."

It didn't take long for the swamp to drain @realDonaldTrump. No shame, Mr. President. Almost everyone succumbs to the D.C. Establishment. https://t.co/9bDo8yzH7I — Justin Amash (@justinamash) March 30, 2017