Martin Scorsese film The Irishman will star Joe Pesci alongside De Niro and Pacino after all
Martin Scorsese film The Irishman will star Joe Pesci alongside De Niro and Pacino after all
It was believed that Martin Scorsese's next film was moving ahead without Joe Pesci, however it seems like the actor will be reuniting with his director and co-star Robert De Niro after all. Scorsese's long-time editor Thelma Schoonmaker appeared to confirm the news in a brand new interview when mentioning the upcoming project, which also stars Al Pacino, during a discussion about his most recent film . Schoonmaker told : “…he wants to make more films like [ ], that are spiritual, basically, but not set in 17th century Japan [laugh]. In the modern time. So hopefully we’ll be able to make that. Not the next one, the next one is the next one is the next one is , which is De Niro and Joe Pesci and elderly gangsters. So that’ll be very different from Silence. But maybe the one after that!” Production began on Scorsese's long-gestating mob drama last year with lucrative rights picked up at Cannes Film Festival. It was recently reported that Netflix had impressively acquired worldwide rights to the film. Doubt has long been cast over Pesci's involvement in the project after it was reported that the actor had 'repeatedly told Scorsese no.' Actors in both The Sopranos and Goodfellas and their parts               Actors in both The Sopranos and Goodfellas and their parts       Lorraine Bracco as Dr Jennifer Melfi in The Sopranos         Lorraine Bracco as Karen Hill in Goodfellas         Michael Imperioli as Christopher Moltisanti in The Sopranos         Michael Imperioli as Spider in Goodfellas         Tobin Bell as Major Zwingli in The Sopranos         Tobin Bell as a parole officer in Goodfellas         Tony Sirico as Paulie 'Walnuts' Gualtieri in The Sopranos         Tony Sirico as Tony Stacks in Goodfellas   Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros. Inc. Credit: © 1990 Warner Bros. / Courtesy: Pyxurz.        Frank Vincent as Phil Leotardo in The Sopranos         Frank Vincent as Billy Batts in Goodfellas   Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros. Inc. Credit: © 1990 Warner Bros. / Courtesy: Pyxurz.        Vincent Pastore as Salvatore 'Big Pussy' Bonpensiero in The Sopranos         Vincent Pastore as Man with Coatrack in Goodfellas         Suzanne Shepherd as Mary DeAngelis (Carm's mother) in The Sopranos         Suzanne Shepherd as Karen's Mother in Goodfellas   Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros. Inc. Credit: © 1990 Warner Bros. / Courtesy: Pyxurz.        Frank Albanese as Uncle Pat Blundetto in The Sopranos         Frank Albanese as Mob Lawyer in Goodfellas         Tony Darrow as Larry Boy Barese in The Sopranos         Tony Darrow as Sonny Bunz in Goodfellas         Tony Lip as Carmine Lupertazzi Sr. in The Sopranos         Tony Lip as Frankie The Wop in Goodfellas         Frank Pellegrino as Bureau Chief Frank Cubitoso in The Sopranos         Frank Pellegrino as Johnny Dio in Goodfellas         Chuck Low as Shlomo Teittleman in The Sopranos         Chuck Low as Morris Kessler in Goodfellas         Paul Herman as Beansie Gaeta in The Sopranos. Was also Dealer in Goodfellas         Nicole Burdette as Barbara Soprano Giglione in The Sopranos. Was also Carbone's Girlfriend in Goodfellas.         Marianne Leone as Joanne Moltisanti in The Sopranos. Was also Tuddy's Wife in Goodfellas.         Daniel P. Conte as Faustino 'Doc' Santoro in The Sopranos. Was also Dr. Dan in Goodfellas.         John 'Cha Cha' Ciarcia as Albie Cianflone in The Sopranos. Was also Batts' Crew #1 in Goodfellas.         Angela Pietropinto as Helen Barone in The Sopranos. Was also Cicero's Wife in Goodfellas.         Susan Varon as Susan in Goodfellas. Was also Joan Gillespie in The Sopranos.         Frank Adonis was Guest #1 in The Sopranos and Anthony Stabile in Goodfellas         Nancy Cassaro was Joanne Moltisanti in The Sopranos and Joe Buddha's Wife in Goodfellas         Victor Collichio was Joe in The Sopranos and in Henry's 60's crew in Goodfellas         Anthoy Alessandro was a waiter in The Sopranos and in Henry's 60's crew in Goodfellas         Gaetano LoGiudice was Bada Bing Patron in The Sopranos and in Herny's 60s Crew in Goodfellas         Vito Antuofermo was Bobby Zanone in The Sopranos and Prizefighter in Goodfellas         Gene Canfield was Police Officer in The Sopranos and Prison Guard in Booth in Goodfellas         Anthony Caso was Martin Scorsese in The Sopranos and Truck Hijacker in Goodfellas   - also referred to as (mob slang for contract killings - the 'paint' being blood) - is based on the book by Charles Brandt which follows the “biggest mob hit in history." De Niro's role will be that of notorious mobster Frank 'The Irishman' Sheeran. There's no word on who Pesci will play. Interestingly, will mark the first collaboration between Scorsese and actor Pacino. It'll serve as the tenth time that De Niro has worked with the filmmaker. Scorsese is also currently working on an adaptation of with Leonardo DiCaprio. More about: The Irishman Joe Pesci Martin Scorsese Robert De Niro Al Pacino Comments

It was believed that Martin Scorsese's next film The Irishman was moving ahead without Joe Pesci, however it seems like the actor will be reuniting with his Goodfellas director and co-star Robert De Niro after all.

Scorsese's long-time editor Thelma Schoonmaker appeared to confirm the news in a brand new interview when mentioning the upcoming project, which also stars Al Pacino, during a discussion about his most recent film Silence.

Schoonmaker told Crave: “…he wants to make more films like [Silence], that are spiritual, basically, but not set in 17th century Japan [laugh]. In the modern time. So hopefully we’ll be able to make that. Not the next one, the next one is the next one is the next one is The Irishman, which is De Niro and Joe Pesci and elderly gangsters. So that’ll be very different from Silence. But maybe the one after that!”

Martin Scorsese's Silence - Clip

Production began on Scorsese's long-gestating mob drama last year with lucrative rights picked up at Cannes Film Festival. It was recently reported that Netflix had impressively acquired worldwide rights to the film.

Doubt has long been cast over Pesci's involvement in the project after it was reported that the actor had 'repeatedly told Scorsese no.'

Actors in both The Sopranos and Goodfellas and their parts







39 show all Actors in both The Sopranos and Goodfellas and their parts











































































1/39 Lorraine Bracco as Dr Jennifer Melfi in The Sopranos

2/39 Lorraine Bracco as Karen Hill in Goodfellas

3/39 Michael Imperioli as Christopher Moltisanti in The Sopranos

4/39 Michael Imperioli as Spider in Goodfellas

5/39 Tobin Bell as Major Zwingli in The Sopranos

6/39 Tobin Bell as a parole officer in Goodfellas

7/39 Tony Sirico as Paulie 'Walnuts' Gualtieri in The Sopranos

8/39 Tony Sirico as Tony Stacks in Goodfellas Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros. Inc. Credit: © 1990 Warner Bros. / Courtesy: Pyxurz.

9/39 Frank Vincent as Phil Leotardo in The Sopranos

10/39 Frank Vincent as Billy Batts in Goodfellas Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros. Inc. Credit: © 1990 Warner Bros. / Courtesy: Pyxurz.

11/39 Vincent Pastore as Salvatore 'Big Pussy' Bonpensiero in The Sopranos

12/39 Vincent Pastore as Man with Coatrack in Goodfellas

13/39 Suzanne Shepherd as Mary DeAngelis (Carm's mother) in The Sopranos

14/39 Suzanne Shepherd as Karen's Mother in Goodfellas Copyright © 1990 Warner Bros. Inc. Credit: © 1990 Warner Bros. / Courtesy: Pyxurz.

15/39 Frank Albanese as Uncle Pat Blundetto in The Sopranos

16/39 Frank Albanese as Mob Lawyer in Goodfellas

17/39 Tony Darrow as Larry Boy Barese in The Sopranos

18/39 Tony Darrow as Sonny Bunz in Goodfellas

19/39 Tony Lip as Carmine Lupertazzi Sr. in The Sopranos

20/39 Tony Lip as Frankie The Wop in Goodfellas

21/39 Frank Pellegrino as Bureau Chief Frank Cubitoso in The Sopranos

22/39 Frank Pellegrino as Johnny Dio in Goodfellas

23/39 Chuck Low as Shlomo Teittleman in The Sopranos

24/39 Chuck Low as Morris Kessler in Goodfellas

25/39 Paul Herman as Beansie Gaeta in The Sopranos. Was also Dealer in Goodfellas

26/39 Nicole Burdette as Barbara Soprano Giglione in The Sopranos. Was also Carbone's Girlfriend in Goodfellas.

27/39 Marianne Leone as Joanne Moltisanti in The Sopranos. Was also Tuddy's Wife in Goodfellas.

28/39 Daniel P. Conte as Faustino 'Doc' Santoro in The Sopranos. Was also Dr. Dan in Goodfellas.

29/39 John 'Cha Cha' Ciarcia as Albie Cianflone in The Sopranos. Was also Batts' Crew #1 in Goodfellas.

30/39 Angela Pietropinto as Helen Barone in The Sopranos. Was also Cicero's Wife in Goodfellas.

31/39 Susan Varon as Susan in Goodfellas. Was also Joan Gillespie in The Sopranos.

32/39 Frank Adonis was Guest #1 in The Sopranos and Anthony Stabile in Goodfellas

33/39 Nancy Cassaro was Joanne Moltisanti in The Sopranos and Joe Buddha's Wife in Goodfellas

34/39 Victor Collichio was Joe in The Sopranos and in Henry's 60's crew in Goodfellas

35/39 Anthoy Alessandro was a waiter in The Sopranos and in Henry's 60's crew in Goodfellas

36/39 Gaetano LoGiudice was Bada Bing Patron in The Sopranos and in Herny's 60s Crew in Goodfellas

37/39 Vito Antuofermo was Bobby Zanone in The Sopranos and Prizefighter in Goodfellas

38/39 Gene Canfield was Police Officer in The Sopranos and Prison Guard in Booth in Goodfellas

39/39 Anthony Caso was Martin Scorsese in The Sopranos and Truck Hijacker in Goodfellas

The Irishman - also referred to as I Heard You Paint Houses (mob slang for contract killings - the 'paint' being blood) - is based on the book by Charles Brandt which follows the “biggest mob hit in history." De Niro's role will be that of notorious mobster Frank 'The Irishman' Sheeran. There's no word on who Pesci will play.

Interestingly, The Irishman will mark the first collaboration between Scorsese and The Godfather actor Pacino. It'll serve as the tenth time that De Niro has worked with the filmmaker.

Scorsese is also currently working on an adaptation of The Devil in the White City with Leonardo DiCaprio.