Large fire burns in Dubai near site of dramatic 2015 blaze
Large fire burns in Dubai near site of dramatic 2015 blaze
Shares                A large fire broke out early Sunday at a high-rise complex under construction near Dubai's largest shopping mall, sending thick gray smoke billowing over the heart of the city. The site is next to the Dubai Mall and near the 63-story The Address Downtown Dubai tower, which was heavily damaged in a fire on New Year's Eve on 2015. Flames licked out of the podium level of the building as firefighters shot water inside. Every few minutes, small blasts could be heard inside the structure, presumably from exploding propane or welding tanks used by the workers. Ambulances stood nearby but there was no sign of any worker being treated. The fire appeared to be confined to the lower floors of the structure.   Dubai's government media office said the fire erupted at the Address Residences Fountain Views towers, and that firefighters have brought it under control. "Cooling operations are underway and ambulance units are on site," the media office posted on its Twitter account. It said there were no injuries reported. The high-rise Fountain Views complex is being built by large Dubai-based developer Emaar Properties, which raised the mall and the hotel struck in the 2015 blaze. The developer declined to immediately comment. Large numbers of firefighters were on the scene, and police cordoned off nearby roads.   "It was plumes and plumes of black smoke. It looks like it was quite low down," said witness Anthea Ayache. She said firefighters responded quickly and many construction workers were nearby watching the fire from a safe distance. "There's so many fire brigades, so they seem to have gotten on top of it very quickly," she said. Niall McLoughlin, a spokesman for Dubai developer DAMAC, said the fire happened next to the DAMAC Maison luxury hotel. Dramatic fires have hit skyscrapers in Dubai and other fast-growing cities in the United Arab Emirates in recent years. Building and safety experts have cited a popular type of cladding covering the buildings that can be highly flammable.   ——— Associated Press writer Adam Schreck contributed to this report. Shares                  Large fire burns in Dubai near site of dramatic 2015 blaze   Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner worth up to $740 million   1 child dead after 7 found unconscious from carbon-monoxide at Michigan hotel pool   Pentagon seizing more control over warfighting   Former National Security Adviser Flynn didn't initially disclose Russia speeches   US House race offers insight into shifting Democratic Party   Far-right clash with anti-fascists in London, 14 arrested   DUI case against model might be dismissed   William Coleman, lawyer, ex-Cabinet member, died   Supreme Court showdown looms ahead of vote   UConn's 111-game winning streak ends, Miss St wins at buzzer   Barbershop finds success in out-of-the-box idea to get kids reading   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   7-year-old basketball star gets a special surprise from Harlem Globetrotters   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   Teacher raises $80K for bikes for elementary school's entire student body   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service   Dad stunned wounded man is nightclub shooting suspect   Most occupants in Texas bus crash were wearing seat belt: NTSB   US cancer deaths are decreasing, study finds   US enrolls volunteers in large test of possible Zika vaccine   South Sudan's civil war creates a new lost generation   Man charged with arson over fire that led to collapse of Atlanta highway bridge   3 arrested in connection with Atlanta highway fire   Getaway driver convicted of murder over carjacking at mall   'The Watcher' allegedly continues to harass NJ homeowners   Charleston church shooter to plead guilty in state murder case   Resilient Zags head to title game in first Final Four   Hayden Christensen, Mark Hamill back for 'Star Wars' Celebration   Harriet Tubman photo bought by Smithsonian, national library   April Fools' Day: How did it start?

A large fire broke out early Sunday at a high-rise complex under construction near Dubai's largest shopping mall, sending thick gray smoke billowing over the heart of the city.

The site is next to the Dubai Mall and near the 63-story The Address Downtown Dubai tower, which was heavily damaged in a fire on New Year's Eve on 2015.

Flames licked out of the podium level of the building as firefighters shot water inside. Every few minutes, small blasts could be heard inside the structure, presumably from exploding propane or welding tanks used by the workers. Ambulances stood nearby but there was no sign of any worker being treated.

The fire appeared to be confined to the lower floors of the structure.

The Associated Press

Dubai's government media office said the fire erupted at the Address Residences Fountain Views towers, and that firefighters have brought it under control.

"Cooling operations are underway and ambulance units are on site," the media office posted on its Twitter account. It said there were no injuries reported.

The high-rise Fountain Views complex is being built by large Dubai-based developer Emaar Properties, which raised the mall and the hotel struck in the 2015 blaze. The developer declined to immediately comment.

Large numbers of firefighters were on the scene, and police cordoned off nearby roads.

The Associated Press

"It was plumes and plumes of black smoke. It looks like it was quite low down," said witness Anthea Ayache.

She said firefighters responded quickly and many construction workers were nearby watching the fire from a safe distance.

"There's so many fire brigades, so they seem to have gotten on top of it very quickly," she said.

Niall McLoughlin, a spokesman for Dubai developer DAMAC, said the fire happened next to the DAMAC Maison luxury hotel.

Dramatic fires have hit skyscrapers in Dubai and other fast-growing cities in the United Arab Emirates in recent years. Building and safety experts have cited a popular type of cladding covering the buildings that can be highly flammable.

The Associated Press

———

Associated Press writer Adam Schreck contributed to this report.