Massachusetts city council to vote on Trump impeachment resolution
Mass. city council to vote on Trump impeachment resolution
Shares               A Massachusetts city is joining a handful of other municipalities across the country in calling for an impeachment investigation of President Donald Trump based on alleged conflicts of interest. During its Monday meeting, Cambridge City Council is slated to vote on a resolution calling for the U.S. House of Representatives to begin such an investigation. The resolution -- which is largely symbolic -- follows similar calls to action by other city councils, including Richmond, Virginia; Berkeley, California,; and Alameda, California. But as ABC News previously reported , in a resignation letter dated Jan. 19 -- the day before his inauguration -- Trump wrote, "I, Donald Trump, hereby resign from each and every office and position I hold in the entities listed." More than 400 entities were listed in the 19-page document.     The resolution is being sponsored by Cambridge vice mayor Marc McGovern, councilor Jan Devereux and councilor Leland Cheung, according to the policy order posted on the city's website . The resolution states, "That the City Council call upon the United States House of Representatives to support a resolution authorizing and directing the House Committee on the Judiciary to investigate whether sufficient grounds exist for the impeachment of Donald J. Trump, President of the United States, including but not limited to the violations of the Foreign Emoluments Clause and the Domestic Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution ." It continues, "On January 11, 2017, nine days before his inauguration, Donald J. Trump announced a plan that would, if carried out, remove him from day-to-day operations of his businesses, but not eliminate any of the ongoing flow of emoluments from foreign governments, state governments, or the United States government; and on January 20, 2017, Donald J. Trump took the oath of office and became President of the United States." The resolution further argues, "From the moment he took office, President Trump was in violation of the Foreign Emoluments Clause and the Domestic Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution." In attempting to justify its claim that Trump violated the aforementioned clauses, the resolution argues, "On January 11, 2017, nine days before his inauguration, Donald J. Trump announced a plan that would, if carried out, remove him from day-to-day operations of his businesses, but not eliminate any of the ongoing flow of emoluments from foreign governments, state governments, or the United States government." Such alleged violations, argues the resolution, "undermine the integrity of the Presidency, corruptly advance the personal wealth of the President, and violate the public trust." Shares                  Mass. city council to vote on Trump impeachment resolution   UN envoy Nikki Haley says 'there's no love' in US relationship with Russia   'This Week' Transcript 4-2-17: Ambassador Nikki Haley, Ash Carter, Sen. John McCain, and Dmitry Peskov   Bed Bath & Beyond: We still carry Ivanka Trump-branded items   Trump aide lashes out at Freedom Caucus lawmaker   Former National Security Adviser Flynn didn't initially disclose Russia speeches   Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner worth up to $740 million   White House officials played role in surfacing documents Nunes viewed   Nunes met by about 300 protesters upon returning to his district   Top Senate Dem slams GSA for OK'ing Trump hotel lease   Everything you need to know about the trade deficit   White House allowing public to request financials for senior staff   Congress rolls back rules on hunting, broadband privacy   Colombia: 193 dead after rivers overflow, toppling homes   Feathers fly as pillow war overtakes downtown Los Angeles   Barbershop finds success in out-of-the-box idea to get kids reading   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   7-year-old basketball star gets a special surprise from Harlem Globetrotters   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   Teacher raises $80K for bikes for elementary school's entire student body   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service

A Massachusetts city is joining a handful of other municipalities across the country in calling for an impeachment investigation of President Donald Trump based on alleged conflicts of interest.

During its Monday meeting, Cambridge City Council is slated to vote on a resolution calling for the U.S. House of Representatives to begin such an investigation.

The resolution -- which is largely symbolic -- follows similar calls to action by other city councils, including Richmond, Virginia; Berkeley, California,; and Alameda, California.

But as ABC News previously reported, in a resignation letter dated Jan. 19 -- the day before his inauguration -- Trump wrote, "I, Donald Trump, hereby resign from each and every office and position I hold in the entities listed." More than 400 entities were listed in the 19-page document.

WHAT TO KNOW

Trump's lawyers have also previously said that all potential conflicts of interest have been ironed out.

ABC News

The resolution is being sponsored by Cambridge vice mayor Marc McGovern, councilor Jan Devereux and councilor Leland Cheung, according to the policy order posted on the city's website.

The resolution states, "That the City Council call upon the United States House of Representatives to support a resolution authorizing and directing the House Committee on the Judiciary to investigate whether sufficient grounds exist for the impeachment of Donald J. Trump, President of the United States, including but not limited to the violations of the Foreign Emoluments Clause and the Domestic Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution."

It continues, "On January 11, 2017, nine days before his inauguration, Donald J. Trump announced a plan that would, if carried out, remove him from day-to-day operations of his businesses, but not eliminate any of the ongoing flow of emoluments from foreign governments, state governments, or the United States government; and on January 20, 2017, Donald J. Trump took the oath of office and became President of the United States."

The resolution further argues, "From the moment he took office, President Trump was in violation of the Foreign Emoluments Clause and the Domestic Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution."

In attempting to justify its claim that Trump violated the aforementioned clauses, the resolution argues, "On January 11, 2017, nine days before his inauguration, Donald J. Trump announced a plan that would, if carried out, remove him from day-to-day operations of his businesses, but not eliminate any of the ongoing flow of emoluments from foreign governments, state governments, or the United States government."

Such alleged violations, argues the resolution, "undermine the integrity of the Presidency, corruptly advance the personal wealth of the President, and violate the public trust."