Ohio plumber finds wedding ring 10 years after it fell down the drain
Ohio plumber finds wedding ring 10 years after it fell down the drain


A Salt Lake City, Utah, woman is "amazed" after plumbers found her long-lost wedding ring 10 years later.

Nicole Wade lost her wedding ring in 2007 while living in her childhood home in Hilliard, Ohio. Her father, Gary Beauchamp, told ABC News that his daughter was taking a shower when she took off her rings and placed them by the sink.

"We were rushing and we got to where we were going and she says, 'I don't have my rings!' So we go back to the house."

Still, the family spent hours "frantically searching" for the ring to no avail. They eventually figured they were accidentally washed down the drain.

"I was pretty upset when I lost it," Wade told ABC News. "I had only been married for two years."

Beauchamp, 58, was able to recover Wade's engagement ring after taking apart their sink, but the wedding ring was never recovered ... until last Sunday.

View gallery Courtesy of Mr. Rooters Plumbing and Drain Company

Beauchamp's sewer drain was backed up, so he called Mr. Rooter Plumbing and Drain Company in Columbus to come out and fix it.

Troy Bronson, an excavation crew leader, told ABC News that he was "excavating a sewer line in our customer Gary Beauchamp’s backyard and while showing him a piece of the line that we had removed, I noticed something fall out of the pipe onto the ground."

"I immediately knew it was a ring, but my team didn’t believe me at first," Bronson, who's worked at Mr. Rooters for nearly seven years, continued. "We all started searching the ground -- even Gary got on the ground -- and we recovered it!"

Beauchamp immediately FaceTimed his daughter.

"[He said], 'I want you to look at this ring and tell me what you think,'" Wade, 33, recalled. "I looked at it and immediately recognized it. I couldn't believe it. ... I never thought I'd see it again."

The mother of three confirmed that it was indeed her custom-made wedding band, created by her uncle, whose a jeweler in Atlanta.

"I'm amazed that we found it, and I'm thankful that [Bronson] was honest enough to give it back instead of stealing it and selling it. It's just wonderful," Wade added.