The Brexit negotiations were getting boring – we needed a battle over Gibraltar to spice things up
The Brexit negotiations were getting boring – we needed a battle over Gibraltar to spice things up
Just when the process of unravelling Britain from Europe was beginning to look like an anticlimactic doddle, give thanks to a weeny stretch of land by the Mediterranean for injecting a badly needed shot of chaos. Taken out of context, Gibraltar does not appear to be one of the major items on the roster of assets to be separated. It’s the print of Guernica he bought on a weekend break to Barcelona, perhaps, or that antique copper kettle she picked up for a tenner at the car boot. Roughly the size of a London park and with a similar population to Exmouth, Gibraltar ’s economic relevance seems as negligible as its status as a UK enclave in Spain seems comically anachronistic. Symbolically, of course, it is more important than the bare statistics imply. To Spain, whose foreign minister was banging on about planting the Spanish flag on the rock within a few days of the Brexit result, the Union Jack’s presence is an insult to machismo pride. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures       Anti-Brexit protesters, one wearing a giant Theresa May head, hold placards outside Parliament on the day the Prime Minister will announce that she has triggered the process by which Britain will leave the European Union   Reuters        Members of Britain's UK Independence Party (UKIP) including MEP Margot Parker, MEP David Coburn and MEP Ray Finch celebrate the official triggering of Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, dubbed 'Brexit', at the Old Hack Pub in front of the EU Commission in Brussels, Belgium   EPA        Supporters of jailed former British soldier Alexander Blackman, Marine A, arrive at The Royal Courts of Justice in London, to attend the result of his sentence   Getty Images        Claire Blackman,wife of Alexander Blackman,celebrates outside the High Court, after Sergeant Blackman's appeal was successful. The court heard that will be free within 2 weeks   Rex     29 March 2017   Faith Leaders head up a vigil including members of the public and police officers on Westminster Bridge exactly one week after the attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   Police officers holds roses on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   Members of Ahmadiyya Muslim Association pay their respects in Parliament Square, London,  exactly a week since the Westminster terror attack took place   PA wire     29 March 2017   People attend a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   A police badge topped with a white rose is placed during a vigil on Westminster Bridge in London   PA wire     29 March 2017   A police officer holding a flower stands in front of Muslim girls holding placards as they join people on Westminster Bridge during an event to remember the victims of the Westminster attack   Reuters     29 March 2017   People wearing #IAMAMUSLIM t-shirts hold a banner reading 'Love for all, hatred for none' on Westminster Bridge as they attend a vigil   Getty Images     29 March 2017   A Police officer holds a white rose on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   British ambassador to the EU, Sir Tim Barrow leaves after delivering the official notice under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to European Council President Donald Tusk in Brussels, Belgium   EPA     29 March 2017   EU Council President Donald Tusk holds British Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit letter which was delivered by Britain's permanent representative to the European Union Sir Tim Barrow in Brussels, Belgium, as part of the process that starts the formal proceedings of United Kingdom leaving the European Union   EPA     27 March 2017   A Tate Britain staff member poses for photographers underneath "Forms in Space...by Light (in Time)" a light installation by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans, during a photo call in the Duveen Galleries at Tate Britain gallery in London   AP     27 March 2017   The recently redeveloped National Army Museum   Getty Images     27 March 2017   The National Army Museum in London   Getty Images     27 March 2017   Police walk past floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terrorist attack outside the Palace of Westminster, London   PA wire     26 March 2017   Floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terror attack are seen in Parliament Square in central London   Getty Images     26 March 2017   A aerial view of Derwentwater near Keswick in the Lake District, Cumbria, with snow capped mountains in the foreground and background, as the warm weather continues for many in the UK   PA wire     24 March 2017   British Conservative Party politician Tobias Ellwood (C), who gave first aid to the fatally wounded police officer Keith Palmer, one of the casualties of the March 22 London terror attack, shakes hands with an armed police officer as he arrives at the Houses of Parliament in London   Getty Images     24 March 2017   Armed police outside Westminster underground station in central London following the terrorist attack which claimed the lives of four innocent victims   PA wire     23 March 2017   A flower left in tribute to the victims of the March 22 terror attack is seen next to the Palace of Westminster   Getty     23 March 2017   Mayor of London Sadiq Khan speaks as Home Secretary Amber Rudd MP and acting Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police Craig Mackey look on during a candlelit vigil at Trafalgar Square   Getty Images     23 March 2017   People gather during a candlelit vigil at Trafalgar Square   Getty Images     23 March 2017   A man lays flowers during a candlelit vigil at Trafalgar Square   Getty Images     23 March 2017   The funeral procession leaves St Columba's Church Long Tower with the coffin after the funeral of former Northern Ireland Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness in Derry, Northern Ireland   Getty Images     23 March 2017   Martin McGuinness's wife Bernie leaves St Columba's Church Long Tower, in Londonderry   PA wire  To Britain, still racked by phantom limb pain in the post-imperial stump, retaining Gibraltar (like the Falklands) is a placebo to take the edge off the agony. We may have lost India and the other big stuff, but by God the sun will never set on our Barbary apes or our South Atlantic sheep. Gibraltar was always certain to be problematic if we voted for Brexit. And now, with Donald Tusk alluding to a Spanish veto over trade talk decisions affecting Gibraltar in his reply to Theresa May’s letter (in which Gibraltar went unmentioned), the sabre-rattling is underway. Caught in the middle are the 30,000 Gibraltarians whose loyalties are equally ferocious. In recent polling, 99 per cent wished to remain British, and almost 98 per cent to remain in the EU. In less poisonous divorce proceedings, squaring that circle would be easy. Joint custody of dear little Gib would be awarded via shared sovereignty. The eastern Caribbean island of St Martin/Sant Maarten is shared by France and the Netherlands without any tension or need for a hard border. With Gibraltar, such a sensible, civilised agreement looks impossible. Not only would it elevate our thuggish right wing press to a pinnacle of jingoistic apoplexy unscaled since Thatcher decided blood was worth spilling in the South Atlantic. The chief minister of Gibraltar, Fabian Picardo, has reiterated his adamant rejection of Madrid’s joint sovereignty proposal. He describes the Spanish claim to his territory  as “medieval”, which give or take a century may technically be correct: you have to go back as far as 1704, when England and the Netherlands snatched it, for the last time Gibraltar was Spanish. Proving himself almost as naturally gifted a diplomat as Boris Johnson, who rails against this “land grab”, Picardo also calls it “rancid”. In this febrile atmosphere, Theresa May might feel compelled to ingratiate herself with her bosses at and with a tonal tribute to the 1982 Thatcher, albeit not necessarily by dispatching a task force to the Med. Spain, meanwhile, will leave its ability to destroy Gibraltar’s duty free economy floating menacingly over negotiations. All it needs do, as it tends to whenever relations with London are strained over fishing rights, is vindictively make its border checks intolerably long for the thousands who cross it every day. May would have every right to be livid about that. It is not the British way to use blackmail as a bargaining tool, as her hint about withdrawing security cooperation confirmed. She might also point out that the Treaty of Utrecht, which granted us ownership of Gibraltar, cannot be unagreed. When Britain signs a treaty, it says signed. Unless it happens to be signed in Rome, Maastricht or Lisbon.   Brexit could turn Gibraltar in to the next Falklands, Tories suggest And Spain has every right to regard a foreign power’s ownership of territory within its borders as a gross insult to its sovereignty. The fact that from Gibraltar, on a clear day, you can see Ceuta, one of the two Spanish enclaves in Morocco, has nothing to do with that. At least the two sides are well matched in hypocrisy, though that may offer small comfort to Gibraltar as it faces an uncertain future as tug-of-love child in history’s most protracted and vicious divorce. In fact, it barely qualifies as a child. This is more a custody battle over which of the parties keeps the shed at the end of the garden that gets all the sun. If the Nobel peace committee happens to be reading this, the Norman Plan involves Gibraltar yelling “a plague on both your houses” at Madrid and London, and applying to become a constituent part of Scotland. It would then wait patiently for Moses-Joshua Sturgeon to lead her country out of English bondage and back to the Euroland of milk and honey. It isn’t perfect, but it may have to do. In the meantime, the consolation for the 30,000 souls whose sense of security is being sacrificed on the (Gibr)altar of infantile Anglo-Spanish intransigence is that their duty free paradise is the cheapest place on the continent in which to drink yourself into oblivion. More about: Gibraltar Theresa May Brexit Spain Comments

Just when the process of unravelling Britain from Europe was beginning to look like an anticlimactic doddle, give thanks to a weeny stretch of land by the Mediterranean for injecting a badly needed shot of chaos.

Taken out of context, Gibraltar does not appear to be one of the major items on the roster of assets to be separated. It’s the print of Guernica he bought on a weekend break to Barcelona, perhaps, or that antique copper kettle she picked up for a tenner at the car boot.

Roughly the size of a London park and with a similar population to Exmouth, Gibraltar’s economic relevance seems as negligible as its status as a UK enclave in Spain seems comically anachronistic.

Symbolically, of course, it is more important than the bare statistics imply. To Spain, whose foreign minister was banging on about planting the Spanish flag on the rock within a few days of the Brexit result, the Union Jack’s presence is an insult to machismo pride.

UK news in pictures







28 show all UK news in pictures





















































1/28 Anti-Brexit protesters, one wearing a giant Theresa May head, hold placards outside Parliament on the day the Prime Minister will announce that she has triggered the process by which Britain will leave the European Union Reuters

2/28 Members of Britain's UK Independence Party (UKIP) including MEP Margot Parker, MEP David Coburn and MEP Ray Finch celebrate the official triggering of Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, dubbed 'Brexit', at the Old Hack Pub in front of the EU Commission in Brussels, Belgium EPA

3/28 Supporters of jailed former British soldier Alexander Blackman, Marine A, arrive at The Royal Courts of Justice in London, to attend the result of his sentence Getty Images

4/28 Claire Blackman,wife of Alexander Blackman,celebrates outside the High Court, after Sergeant Blackman's appeal was successful. The court heard that will be free within 2 weeks Rex

5/28 29 March 2017 Faith Leaders head up a vigil including members of the public and police officers on Westminster Bridge exactly one week after the attack Getty Images

6/28 29 March 2017 Police officers holds roses on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

7/28 29 March 2017 Members of Ahmadiyya Muslim Association pay their respects in Parliament Square, London, exactly a week since the Westminster terror attack took place PA wire

8/28 29 March 2017 People attend a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

9/28 29 March 2017 A police badge topped with a white rose is placed during a vigil on Westminster Bridge in London PA wire

10/28 29 March 2017 A police officer holding a flower stands in front of Muslim girls holding placards as they join people on Westminster Bridge during an event to remember the victims of the Westminster attack Reuters

11/28 29 March 2017 People wearing #IAMAMUSLIM t-shirts hold a banner reading 'Love for all, hatred for none' on Westminster Bridge as they attend a vigil Getty Images

12/28 29 March 2017 A Police officer holds a white rose on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

13/28 29 March 2017 British ambassador to the EU, Sir Tim Barrow leaves after delivering the official notice under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to European Council President Donald Tusk in Brussels, Belgium EPA

14/28 29 March 2017 EU Council President Donald Tusk holds British Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit letter which was delivered by Britain's permanent representative to the European Union Sir Tim Barrow in Brussels, Belgium, as part of the process that starts the formal proceedings of United Kingdom leaving the European Union EPA

15/28 27 March 2017 A Tate Britain staff member poses for photographers underneath "Forms in Space...by Light (in Time)" a light installation by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans, during a photo call in the Duveen Galleries at Tate Britain gallery in London AP

16/28 27 March 2017 The recently redeveloped National Army Museum Getty Images

17/28 27 March 2017 The National Army Museum in London Getty Images

18/28 27 March 2017 Police walk past floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terrorist attack outside the Palace of Westminster, London PA wire

19/28 26 March 2017 Floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terror attack are seen in Parliament Square in central London Getty Images

20/28 26 March 2017 A aerial view of Derwentwater near Keswick in the Lake District, Cumbria, with snow capped mountains in the foreground and background, as the warm weather continues for many in the UK PA wire

21/28 24 March 2017 British Conservative Party politician Tobias Ellwood (C), who gave first aid to the fatally wounded police officer Keith Palmer, one of the casualties of the March 22 London terror attack, shakes hands with an armed police officer as he arrives at the Houses of Parliament in London Getty Images

22/28 24 March 2017 Armed police outside Westminster underground station in central London following the terrorist attack which claimed the lives of four innocent victims PA wire

23/28 23 March 2017 A flower left in tribute to the victims of the March 22 terror attack is seen next to the Palace of Westminster Getty

24/28 23 March 2017 Mayor of London Sadiq Khan speaks as Home Secretary Amber Rudd MP and acting Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police Craig Mackey look on during a candlelit vigil at Trafalgar Square Getty Images

25/28 23 March 2017 People gather during a candlelit vigil at Trafalgar Square Getty Images

26/28 23 March 2017 A man lays flowers during a candlelit vigil at Trafalgar Square Getty Images

27/28 23 March 2017 The funeral procession leaves St Columba's Church Long Tower with the coffin after the funeral of former Northern Ireland Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness in Derry, Northern Ireland Getty Images

28/28 23 March 2017 Martin McGuinness's wife Bernie leaves St Columba's Church Long Tower, in Londonderry PA wire

To Britain, still racked by phantom limb pain in the post-imperial stump, retaining Gibraltar (like the Falklands) is a placebo to take the edge off the agony. We may have lost India and the other big stuff, but by God the sun will never set on our Barbary apes or our South Atlantic sheep.

Gibraltar was always certain to be problematic if we voted for Brexit. And now, with Donald Tusk alluding to a Spanish veto over trade talk decisions affecting Gibraltar in his reply to Theresa May’s letter (in which Gibraltar went unmentioned), the sabre-rattling is underway.

Caught in the middle are the 30,000 Gibraltarians whose loyalties are equally ferocious. In recent polling, 99 per cent wished to remain British, and almost 98 per cent to remain in the EU.

In less poisonous divorce proceedings, squaring that circle would be easy. Joint custody of dear little Gib would be awarded via shared sovereignty. The eastern Caribbean island of St Martin/Sant Maarten is shared by France and the Netherlands without any tension or need for a hard border.

With Gibraltar, such a sensible, civilised agreement looks impossible. Not only would it elevate our thuggish right wing press to a pinnacle of jingoistic apoplexy unscaled since Thatcher decided blood was worth spilling in the South Atlantic. The chief minister of Gibraltar, Fabian Picardo, has reiterated his adamant rejection of Madrid’s joint sovereignty proposal.

Sharing Gibraltar would be 'like giving Cornwall to the French'

He describes the Spanish claim to his territory as “medieval”, which give or take a century may technically be correct: you have to go back as far as 1704, when England and the Netherlands snatched it, for the last time Gibraltar was Spanish. Proving himself almost as naturally gifted a diplomat as Boris Johnson, who rails against this “land grab”, Picardo also calls it “rancid”.

In this febrile atmosphere, Theresa May might feel compelled to ingratiate herself with her bosses at The Sun and Daily Mail with a tonal tribute to the 1982 Thatcher, albeit not necessarily by dispatching a task force to the Med.

Spain, meanwhile, will leave its ability to destroy Gibraltar’s duty free economy floating menacingly over negotiations. All it needs do, as it tends to whenever relations with London are strained over fishing rights, is vindictively make its border checks intolerably long for the thousands who cross it every day.

May would have every right to be livid about that. It is not the British way to use blackmail as a bargaining tool, as her hint about withdrawing security cooperation confirmed. She might also point out that the Treaty of Utrecht, which granted us ownership of Gibraltar, cannot be unagreed. When Britain signs a treaty, it says signed. Unless it happens to be signed in Rome, Maastricht or Lisbon.

And Spain has every right to regard a foreign power’s ownership of territory within its borders as a gross insult to its sovereignty. The fact that from Gibraltar, on a clear day, you can see Ceuta, one of the two Spanish enclaves in Morocco, has nothing to do with that.

At least the two sides are well matched in hypocrisy, though that may offer small comfort to Gibraltar as it faces an uncertain future as tug-of-love child in history’s most protracted and vicious divorce. In fact, it barely qualifies as a child. This is more a custody battle over which of the parties keeps the shed at the end of the garden that gets all the sun.

If the Nobel peace committee happens to be reading this, the Norman Plan involves Gibraltar yelling “a plague on both your houses” at Madrid and London, and applying to become a constituent part of Scotland. It would then wait patiently for Moses-Joshua Sturgeon to lead her country out of English bondage and back to the Euroland of milk and honey.

It isn’t perfect, but it may have to do. In the meantime, the consolation for the 30,000 souls whose sense of security is being sacrificed on the (Gibr)altar of infantile Anglo-Spanish intransigence is that their duty free paradise is the cheapest place on the continent in which to drink yourself into oblivion.