Tom Brady Spent April Fools' Trolling a 'Fake News' Headline Claiming He Lost the Super Bowl
Tom Brady Spent April Fools' Trolling a 'Fake News' Headline Claiming He Lost the Super Bowl
Revered though he may be, most of the football world counted out Tom Brady's Patriots in Super Bowl LI. The Atlanta Falcons jumped out to a 21-3 lead in the first half that climbed to 28-3 early in the second half, and it certainly looked like the Dirty Birds would be taking home their first Lombardi Trophy. Even the Boston media, ever the vigilant Brady defenders, gave up on the master of the late-game comeback. In their rush to prep and publish the early edition of their paper, the Boston Globe went with a headline and shot that framed Brady in the midst of defeat. What they might not have expected is for Brady to hold a grudge and mock them for it on April Fools' Day. Brady is well known as a ruthless competitor, but this is cold-blooded even for him. The Globe generally covers Brady and the Patriots pretty favorably, but New England's quarterback apparently took a page from one of the great philosophers of our time: Stunt on me once, I'll flex on you forever Since Brady counts President Donald Trump as a personal friend, Brady is no doubt familiar with the broader concept of fake news . This was just about the perfect twist on a phenomenon that quickly lost all meaning thanks to overuse. If the fake news epidemic was limited to sports headlines that were fired off too soon, we'd all be much better off.

Revered though he may be, most of the football world counted out Tom Brady's Patriots in Super Bowl LI. The Atlanta Falcons jumped out to a 21-3 lead in the first half that climbed to 28-3 early in the second half, and it certainly looked like the Dirty Birds would be taking home their first Lombardi Trophy.

Even the Boston media, ever the vigilant Brady defenders, gave up on the master of the late-game comeback. In their rush to prep and publish the early edition of their paper, the Boston Globe went with a headline and shot that framed Brady in the midst of defeat. What they might not have expected is for Brady to hold a grudge and mock them for it on April Fools' Day.

Brady is well known as a ruthless competitor, but this is cold-blooded even for him. The Globe generally covers Brady and the Patriots pretty favorably, but New England's quarterback apparently took a page from one of the great philosophers of our time:

Stunt on me once, I'll flex on you forever — Soulja Boy ( @souljaboy ) April 28, 2014

Since Brady counts President Donald Trump as a personal friend, Brady is no doubt familiar with the broader concept of fake news. This was just about the perfect twist on a phenomenon that quickly lost all meaning thanks to overuse. If the fake news epidemic was limited to sports headlines that were fired off too soon, we'd all be much better off.