Why this Roger Federer-Rafael Nadal battle might be the most surprising of all
Why this Federer-Nadal battle might be the most surprising of all
Watch: It's Federer-Nadal time at the Miami Open 3 Related Why this Federer-Nadal battle might be the most surprising of all Three reasons Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal will win the Miami Open Federer vs. Nadal: Top five memorable matches Konta claims biggest career title at Miami Open Federer tops Kyrgios in thriller; Nadal next Nadal ousts Fognini, reaches Miami Open final Konta ends Venus' Key Biscayne run in semis Federer says crowd noise 'part of the game' ITF plans major shake-up, to cut to 1,500 pros Pennsylvania rejects historical marker for Tilden Johanna Konta working hard, blooming late and winning titles Three reasons Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal will win the Miami Open Roger Federer undefeated in the game of inches Kyrgios: Only winning more will silence crowd Federer vs. Nadal: Top five memorable matches Rafael Nadal did his job; now he gets Roger Federer Roger Federer and his year of living miraculously It took time, but Konta eventually exploited Venus' weakness How tennis plans to streamline the jump from juniors to the pro circuit The five secrets to Roger Federer's success Paths of Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal beginning to intertwine Believe it or not, this might be just the start for Roger Federer How does Roger Federer keep doing what he's doing? The never-ending charmed life of Roger Federer The stroke that turned Federer's fortunes against Nadal around Power and composure aid Kyrgios to big-time win vs. Djokovic World Team Tennis the epitome of Billie Jean King's dream Serena Williams the latest star sitting out Indian Wells Why Serena's withdrawal from Indian Wells, Miami isn't a major concern Hitting every ball as hard as he could is key for Sam Querrey Kyrgios' upset of Djokovic shouldn't come as a surprise So which Big Four member has the advantage at Indian Wells? 1 Related Good luck to the outsiders trying to take out the Big Four Federer's loss a reminder Big Four will have to fight all season Rafael Nadal talks after his 6-1, 7-5 victory over Fabio Fognini and his potential opponent for the upcoming Miami Open. (2:51) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment MIAMI -- Thirteen years and 32 Grand Slam titles later, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal are meeting in the final of the Miami Open, where their rivalry began in 2004. Nadal won that first meeting, a third-round clash, 6-3, 6-3. It seems incredible, but we're completely accustomed to amazing when it comes to these two iconic players. But that may not even be the most remarkable aspect of this upcoming final. That honor may go to the fact that Federer has struggled, sometimes mightily, at this event since last winning it a full decade ago. And Nadal, who has won 28 of these prestigious Masters 1000 titles, has never hoisted the trophy. Bottom line: These men have won nearly every individual Grand Slam event more often than this tournament. This Miami Masters is played immediately after the Indian Wells Masters event. Win both and you've accomplished a demanding "Sunshine Slam," which Federer did in 2005 and '06. Both men have won Indian Wells a combined eight times (Federer has won five, Nadal three) but only two Miami championships (two for Fed, none for Rafa). The numbers, as well as the arc of the year in tennis thus far, would seem to tilt the odds heavily in Federer's favor. Plus, he's already beaten Nadal twice in 2017 without a loss. In fact, the 35-year-old marvel Federer is 18-1 this year, second in match wins to only -- Nadal. But while Federer has won two titles, including the Australian Open, Nadal has yet to win an tournament. History suggests this isn't the most likely place for him to punch through, though Nadal denies his frustrations in Miami will play on his mind. "I don't think [the past] is going to affect me in terms of helping me to win or helping me to lose," Nadal said after a knockout straight-sets win in the semifinals. He has been stymied in five finals here but points out how many he's won at other venues, insisting, "It's not more pressure for me to play here the final than playing in Monte Carlo or playing in Indian Wells. Is the same." Fair enough. Why would the legs of a 14-time Grand Slam champ and the second-most prolific Masters winner go to jelly at the challenge of winning the Miami? On the contrary, he has reason to sleep contently when he hops into bed Saturday night. The main one is that Federer's performance has typically dropped off shortly after his plane from Palm Springs touches down in Miami. Part of that is because compared to the way the ball flies in the dry desert air of California, the slower court surface and the cloying humidity and heat of Miami lessen the pace of the ball. The slower the court, the greater the advantage for Nadal. Moreover, the compressed schedule of the Masters format asks a lot of players who go deep in the draw, especially in Miami, which begins as soon as Indian Wells ends. Federer won the California title and immediately had to board a plane and travel across the country. That can be exhausting. Not to mention that in these events, players are called upon to play three or sometimes four days in succession. As for this event, compared to the slog Federer has made to the final, Nadal's tournament has been a stroll on the beach. Nadal has lost just one set, while Federer got to the final on the strength of brutal, back-to-back, third-set tiebreaker wins. Tomas Berdych almost knocked Federer out in the quarterfinals but failed to convert either of two match points. Six of the eight sets Federer played over a stretch of three matches starting in the fourth round ended in tiebreakers -- and they were played on consecutive days. The fatigue factor ought to be enormous, but after surviving fiery Nick Kyrgios in a three-set, three-tiebreaker barn-burner Friday, Federer discounted its potential impact. "Here we are in the finals, and I get a chance to win the tournament," Federer said, adding that he would have considered a semifinal finish here the capstone to a "fantastic" run. "There is still a mountain to climb in Rafa. He's definitely feeling fresher than I feel right now. That's not a problem. I'll be ready on Sunday." Proud sentiments, entirely justified. And in truth, Federer hasn't showed any of the routine signs that afflict a player with too many miles on the odometer. He doesn't run out of gas late in matches; if anything, he finds ways to raise his game when it's most needed. His concentration doesn't waver for points or games at a time. Most striking, he doesn't go out after playing a number of good matches and produce a real stinker, which is a typical lapse in older players. These men have played 36 times, with Nadal in the lead, 23-13. They are friends as well as rivals. They know each other's games as well as they know the furniture in their own bedrooms, even when the lights are off. In 2005, they faced off here for the second time, this one in the final. At that point, the 18-year-old Nadal had yet to win a Masters or make the quarterfinals of a major. Federer, then 23, was already a four-time Grand Slam champion but not yet a legend. He had tasted major success starting in 2003, but had yet to demonstrate that he could deal with adverse circumstances, focus and grind over an extended period. Nadal won the first two sets. Shocked by the impertinent youth, Federer buckled down and won in five. Federer called that final "epic" and a "turning point" in his career. "I don't know how long we played, maybe four hours, smashing forehand after forehand down the line," he said of that 2005 final. "I remember feeling like I had to learn how to fight in matches, and there I showed it to myself and my team that I could do it." The loss knocked Nadal on his backside, but he popped back up like one of those inflatable punching bags. He dusted himself off and went gonzo. He won his next four Masters events, as well as the French Open. Guess who he beat on the way to that first Roland Garros title? Roger Federer. There will likely be few surprises Sunday, and there's been only one major change on the technical level. Nadal won't have that Federer one-handed backhand to kick around anymore. The Swiss champ is belting it like never before, partly because his entire mindset, in this year of resurgence, has been more offensive, more geared toward playing inside the baseline. "I'm able to take the backhand earlier," Federer said. "Which allows me also to hit more backhand winners off the baseline, which I enjoy a lot." Who wouldn't take pleasure in that, especially after having been taunted so long by that Nadal lefty kicker to his weaker wing and the crazily spinning forehand drives that Federer so often had to play with a backhand from the vicinity of his Adam's apple. A lot has happened in the decade-plus since they first met. That they're back where their history together began is both remarkable and unexpected. Here we go again. For the 37th time. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Rafael Nadal talks after his 6-1, 7-5 victory over Fabio Fognini and his potential opponent for the upcoming Miami Open. (2:51)

MIAMI -- Thirteen years and 32 Grand Slam titles later, Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal are meeting in the final of the Miami Open, where their rivalry began in 2004. Nadal won that first meeting, a third-round clash, 6-3, 6-3.

It seems incredible, but we're completely accustomed to amazing when it comes to these two iconic players. But that may not even be the most remarkable aspect of this upcoming final.

That honor may go to the fact that Federer has struggled, sometimes mightily, at this event since last winning it a full decade ago. And Nadal, who has won 28 of these prestigious Masters 1000 titles, has never hoisted the trophy. Bottom line: These men have won nearly every individual Grand Slam event more often than this tournament.

This Miami Masters is played immediately after the Indian Wells Masters event. Win both and you've accomplished a demanding "Sunshine Slam," which Federer did in 2005 and '06. Both men have won Indian Wells a combined eight times (Federer has won five, Nadal three) but only two Miami championships (two for Fed, none for Rafa).

Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal will meet in the Miami Open final for the first time since 2005. Getty Images

The numbers, as well as the arc of the year in tennis thus far, would seem to tilt the odds heavily in Federer's favor. Plus, he's already beaten Nadal twice in 2017 without a loss. In fact, the 35-year-old marvel Federer is 18-1 this year, second in match wins to only -- Nadal.

But while Federer has won two titles, including the Australian Open, Nadal has yet to win an tournament.

History suggests this isn't the most likely place for him to punch through, though Nadal denies his frustrations in Miami will play on his mind.

"I don't think [the past] is going to affect me in terms of helping me to win or helping me to lose," Nadal said after a knockout straight-sets win in the semifinals. He has been stymied in five finals here but points out how many he's won at other venues, insisting, "It's not more pressure for me to play here the final than playing in Monte Carlo or playing in Indian Wells. Is the same."

Fair enough. Why would the legs of a 14-time Grand Slam champ and the second-most prolific Masters winner go to jelly at the challenge of winning the Miami? On the contrary, he has reason to sleep contently when he hops into bed Saturday night.

The main one is that Federer's performance has typically dropped off shortly after his plane from Palm Springs touches down in Miami. Part of that is because compared to the way the ball flies in the dry desert air of California, the slower court surface and the cloying humidity and heat of Miami lessen the pace of the ball. The slower the court, the greater the advantage for Nadal.

Moreover, the compressed schedule of the Masters format asks a lot of players who go deep in the draw, especially in Miami, which begins as soon as Indian Wells ends. Federer won the California title and immediately had to board a plane and travel across the country. That can be exhausting. Not to mention that in these events, players are called upon to play three or sometimes four days in succession.

As for this event, compared to the slog Federer has made to the final, Nadal's tournament has been a stroll on the beach.

Nadal has lost just one set, while Federer got to the final on the strength of brutal, back-to-back, third-set tiebreaker wins. Tomas Berdych almost knocked Federer out in the quarterfinals but failed to convert either of two match points. Six of the eight sets Federer played over a stretch of three matches starting in the fourth round ended in tiebreakers -- and they were played on consecutive days. The fatigue factor ought to be enormous, but after surviving fiery Nick Kyrgios in a three-set, three-tiebreaker barn-burner Friday, Federer discounted its potential impact.

"Here we are in the finals, and I get a chance to win the tournament," Federer said, adding that he would have considered a semifinal finish here the capstone to a "fantastic" run. "There is still a mountain to climb in Rafa. He's definitely feeling fresher than I feel right now. That's not a problem. I'll be ready on Sunday."

Proud sentiments, entirely justified. And in truth, Federer hasn't showed any of the routine signs that afflict a player with too many miles on the odometer. He doesn't run out of gas late in matches; if anything, he finds ways to raise his game when it's most needed. His concentration doesn't waver for points or games at a time. Most striking, he doesn't go out after playing a number of good matches and produce a real stinker, which is a typical lapse in older players.

These men have played 36 times, with Nadal in the lead, 23-13. They are friends as well as rivals. They know each other's games as well as they know the furniture in their own bedrooms, even when the lights are off.

In 2005, they faced off here for the second time, this one in the final. At that point, the 18-year-old Nadal had yet to win a Masters or make the quarterfinals of a major. Federer, then 23, was already a four-time Grand Slam champion but not yet a legend. He had tasted major success starting in 2003, but had yet to demonstrate that he could deal with adverse circumstances, focus and grind over an extended period.

Editor's Picks Roger Federer undefeated in the game of inches Roger Federer found himself entangled in his second consecutive do-or-die third-set tiebreaker at the Miami Open, and once again he won the battle of nerves.

Rafael Nadal did his job; now he gets Roger Federer Rafael Nadal has taken a back seat to Roger Federer all season, but if the Spaniard has his way, he'll be the one standing at the podium holding a Miami Open trophy for the first time.

Federer tops Kyrgios in thriller; Nadal next Roger Federer bested Nick Kyrgios 7-6, 6-7, 7-6 Friday in a back-and-forth Miami Open semifinal that ended with the crowd booing Kyrgios. Next for Federer -- archrival Rafael Nadal in the final. 2 Related

Nadal won the first two sets. Shocked by the impertinent youth, Federer buckled down and won in five. Federer called that final "epic" and a "turning point" in his career.

"I don't know how long we played, maybe four hours, smashing forehand after forehand down the line," he said of that 2005 final. "I remember feeling like I had to learn how to fight in matches, and there I showed it to myself and my team that I could do it."

The loss knocked Nadal on his backside, but he popped back up like one of those inflatable punching bags. He dusted himself off and went gonzo. He won his next four Masters events, as well as the French Open.

Guess who he beat on the way to that first Roland Garros title? Roger Federer.

There will likely be few surprises Sunday, and there's been only one major change on the technical level. Nadal won't have that Federer one-handed backhand to kick around anymore. The Swiss champ is belting it like never before, partly because his entire mindset, in this year of resurgence, has been more offensive, more geared toward playing inside the baseline.

"I'm able to take the backhand earlier," Federer said. "Which allows me also to hit more backhand winners off the baseline, which I enjoy a lot."

Who wouldn't take pleasure in that, especially after having been taunted so long by that Nadal lefty kicker to his weaker wing and the crazily spinning forehand drives that Federer so often had to play with a backhand from the vicinity of his Adam's apple.

A lot has happened in the decade-plus since they first met. That they're back where their history together began is both remarkable and unexpected.

Here we go again. For the 37th time.