LGBTQ activists held "dance party" protest outside Ivanka Trump's D.C. home
LGBTQ activists held dance party protest outside Ivanka Trump's D.C. home
First Family LGBTQ activists held "dance party" protest outside Ivanka Trump's D.C. home FILE - In this March 17, 2017, file photo, Ivanka Trump arrives for news conference with President Donald Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the East Room of the White House in Washington.
	                        
	                        	 (AP) Hundreds of people protested in front of Ivanka Trump’s Washington D.C. home on Saturday for “climate justice.” LGBTQ activists hosted a “dance party” protest to “send the clear message that our climate and our communities matter,” a detailed Facebook event said.  A crowd of protesters took to the streets with signs to protest President Donald Trump’s administration’s stance on climate change, the Daily Mail reported.  “The entire Trump Administration has shown a blatant disregard for our planet and its inhabitants,” the event page read. “Also, in case you hadn't heard, Trump revoked protections for LGBTQ government employees and removed LGBTQ questions from the census.” Barricades were put up in front of Trump’s home by police, although it was uncertain if she and her family were home during the protest, WUSA reported.  Police told WUSA that the event had ended peacefully.

Hundreds of people protested in front of Ivanka Trump’s Washington D.C. home on Saturday for “climate justice.”

LGBTQ activists hosted a “dance party” protest to “send the clear message that our climate and our communities matter,” a detailed Facebook event said.

A crowd of protesters took to the streets with signs to protest President Donald Trump’s administration’s stance on climate change, the Daily Mail reported.

“The entire Trump Administration has shown a blatant disregard for our planet and its inhabitants,” the event page read. “Also, in case you hadn't heard, Trump revoked protections for LGBTQ government employees and removed LGBTQ questions from the census.”

Barricades were put up in front of Trump’s home by police, although it was uncertain if she and her family were home during the protest, WUSA reported.

Police told WUSA that the event had ended peacefully.

