This Is The Clown Show That Could Lead To A Government Shutdown This Month
This Is The Clown Show That Could  Lead To A Government Shutdown This Month
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Stan Collender       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. PHOTO: DANIEL LEAL-OLIVAS/AFP/Getty Images) Funding for the federal government will run out at midnight on April 28. If some type of new appropriation isn't enacted by then, there will be a government shutdown the next day. You would think the Republican-controlled Congress would want to deal with this immediately, especially in the aftermath of the Affordable Care Act repeal/replace debacle. But the Senate will be in recess from next Friday until April 24 (the House comes back on April 25) and isn't planning to consider a new funding deal until then. Once it comes back to Washington, Congress will be in session for less than a week before the shutdown will begin. President Trump has proposed $18 billion in cuts to domestic programs for the rest of fiscal 2017 that the White House will want included in the new funding bill. He's also proposed initial spending for a wall between the U.S. and Mexico and to eliminate federal funding for Planned Parenthood. Congressional Democrats are against the president's proposals. While they're very likely to vote against the funding bill no matter what, House and Senate Democrats are almost guaranteed to vote against it if any of these hot button items are included. Meanwhile, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) said last week that the 2017 funding bill isn't the best way or time to deal with Planned Parenthood. That aligns him with Democrats and puts him on a collision course with the White House on this issue. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Try to read this without groaning, cursing or weeping...or seeing clowns.

Funding for the federal government will run out at midnight on April 28. If some type of new appropriation isn't enacted by then, there will be a government shutdown the next day.

You would think the Republican-controlled Congress would want to deal with this immediately, especially in the aftermath of the Affordable Care Act repeal/replace debacle.

But the Senate will be in recess from next Friday until April 24 (the House comes back on April 25) and isn't planning to consider a new funding deal until then. Once it comes back to Washington, Congress will be in session for less than a week before the shutdown will begin.

President Trump has proposed $18 billion in cuts to domestic programs for the rest of fiscal 2017 that the White House will want included in the new funding bill. He's also proposed initial spending for a wall between the U.S. and Mexico and to eliminate federal funding for Planned Parenthood.

Congressional Democrats are against the president's proposals. While they're very likely to vote against the funding bill no matter what, House and Senate Democrats are almost guaranteed to vote against it if any of these hot button items are included.

Meanwhile, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) said last week that the 2017 funding bill isn't the best way or time to deal with Planned Parenthood. That aligns him with Democrats and puts him on a collision course with the White House on this issue.