Migos’ Offset Blasts XXXTentacion for Claiming Drake Stole His Flow
Migos’ Offset Blasts XXXTentacion for Claiming Drake Stole His Flow
As XXXTentacion continues to take jabs at Drake , Migos member Offset is making it clear where his loyalties lie. Offset took to his Instagram feed to weigh in on the matter, and he didn’t hold back when offering commentary on the Broward County, Florida native who has targeted Drake. “You niggas is silly,” Offset said. “How you unheard of talking about a nigga stole your swag? We ain’t even heard of you, shorty. Get your ass out of jail.” The comments were made via Offset's Instagram "Stories" feed, and have since self-deleted. For those who missed the statements, DJ Akademiks captured them and offered some additional commentary. Offset's retort came after XXXTentacion recently called out Drake for using other rappers’ cadences in a social media post of his own. #offset defends #drake and blasts #xxxtentacion for asssuming #drake took his flow A post shared by DJ Akademiks (@akadmiks) on “If he can do a whole fuckin’ album or at least two to three fuckin’ songs that does not sound like anybody else’s cadence, or does not have a sample, or just sounds like him originally, he’ll get my kudos,” XXXTentacion said. “I’ll run around the street butt-ass naked. I’ll tattoo Drake’s name on my ass cheeks. If he can be original for even two seconds or out-rap me for two seconds…or if he can go onstage, and sing any of his songs a capella with no Auto-tune, then just maybe I’ll shut the fuck up.” Drake has already commercially and critically thrived despite well-publicized spats with Kendrick Lamar , Common, Meek Mill, and Tory Lanez, so things could get interesting if he decides to respond to XXXTentacion.

As XXXTentacion continues to take jabs at Drake, Migos member Offset is making it clear where his loyalties lie. Offset took to his Instagram feed to weigh in on the matter, and he didn’t hold back when offering commentary on the Broward County, Florida native who has targeted Drake.



“You niggas is silly,” Offset said. “How you unheard of talking about a nigga stole your swag? We ain’t even heard of you, shorty. Get your ass out of jail.”

The comments were made via Offset's Instagram "Stories" feed, and have since self-deleted. For those who missed the statements, DJ Akademiks captured them and offered some additional commentary. Offset's retort came after XXXTentacion recently called out Drake for using other rappers’ cadences in a social media post of his own.

#offset defends #drake and blasts #xxxtentacion for asssuming #drake took his flow A post shared by DJ Akademiks (@akadmiks) on Apr 2, 2017 at 10:26am PDT

“If he can do a whole fuckin’ album or at least two to three fuckin’ songs that does not sound like anybody else’s cadence, or does not have a sample, or just sounds like him originally, he’ll get my kudos,” XXXTentacion said. “I’ll run around the street butt-ass naked. I’ll tattoo Drake’s name on my ass cheeks. If he can be original for even two seconds or out-rap me for two seconds…or if he can go onstage, and sing any of his songs a capella with no Auto-tune, then just maybe I’ll shut the fuck up.”

Drake has already commercially and critically thrived despite well-publicized spats with Kendrick Lamar, Common, Meek Mill, and Tory Lanez, so things could get interesting if he decides to respond to XXXTentacion.