Sridevi, Nawazuddin & Akshaye Khanna Are All Set To Put You On The Edge Of Your Seat With 'Mom'
Sridevi, Nawazuddin & Akshaye Khanna Are All Set To Put You On The Edge Of Your Seat With 'Mom'
Sridevi, Nawazuddin & Akshaye Khanna Are All Set To Put You On The Edge Of Your Seat With 'Mom' Sridevi’s comeback film did phenomenally well at the box office. In fact, the audience was so taken with the film that they have been eagerly waiting to see Sridevi on the silver screen on a regular basis. Well, she is soon hitting the big screen with yet another masterpiece called . Unlike her last film, which was a light-hearted yet entertaining drama, this film is a dark thriller. While she carried on her own shoulders, also stars some amazing actors like Akshaye Khanna and Nawazuddin Siddiqui. The intriguing 66-second long teaser keeps you on the edge of your seat and reveals a very interesting plot. It almost has a paranormal touch to it. With a dark background and some thumping music, promises to be a roller coaster ride. Just before the end of the teaser, Sridevi asks a very interesting question - Akshaye Khanna can be seen in two-three frames but it’s difficult to decipher his role in the film. However, watch out for Nawazuddin Siddiqui playing a bald old guy.  His unrecognisable avatar will definitely pique your interest. Without further ado, here’s the teaser: Mom will hit the silver screens on July 14.

Sridevi’s comeback film English Vinglish did phenomenally well at the box office. In fact, the audience was so taken with the film that they have been eagerly waiting to see Sridevi on the silver screen on a regular basis.

imdb

Well, she is soon hitting the big screen with yet another masterpiece called Mom. Unlike her last film, which was a light-hearted yet entertaining drama, this film is a dark thriller. While she carried English Vinglish on her own shoulders, Mom also stars some amazing actors like Akshaye Khanna and Nawazuddin Siddiqui.

Videograb

The intriguing 66-second long teaser keeps you on the edge of your seat and reveals a very interesting plot. It almost has a paranormal touch to it. With a dark background and some thumping music, Mom promises to be a roller coaster ride.

Just before the end of the teaser, Sridevi asks a very interesting question - Galat aur bohot galat mein se chun na ho, toh aap kya chunenge?

Akshaye Khanna can be seen in two-three frames but it’s difficult to decipher his role in the film. However, watch out for Nawazuddin Siddiqui playing a bald old guy. His unrecognisable avatar will definitely pique your interest.

Without further ado, here’s the teaser:

Mom will hit the silver screens on July 14.

Don't Miss 718 SHARES 54.2 K SHARES 33.1 K SHARES 15 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES