Lilly Singh Trades YouTube Videos For Paperbacks With New Book
Lilly Singh Trades YouTube Videos For Paperbacks With New Book
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Madeline Berg       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Courtesy of Team Super Lilly Singh is the latest YouTube star to try her hand at writing—and the latest to receive a hefty advance for doing so. Courtesy of Ballantine Books Singh bills her book as "the definitive guide to conquering life." Singh has become known for the empowering, yet humorous, speeches that she channels in her new books. (Photo by Emma McIntyre/Getty Images for AOL) For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg . Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Courtesy of Team Super

In 2015, YouTube star Lilly Singh embarked on a tour that sent her around the world, from her home in California to India to Australia. Now, less than two years later, she is setting out on a similar expedition—this time adding stops in Malaysia and the Philippines. But instead of back-up dancers and unicorn costumes, Singh will dole out entrepreneurial advice, tips on how to get over your last breakup and maybe even wear a suit. She is promoting her new book How to Be a Bawse (yes, that’s her preferred spelling of “boss”), a self-help book that she bills as “the definitive guide to conquering life.”

The 29-year-old Singh, who started her YouTube channel “||Superwoman||” in 2010, has amassed over 11 million subscribers who tune into her stand-up comedy videos which often feature raps, imitations of her parents and inspirational speeches. Her popularity on YouTube contributed to a $7.5 million payday last year, most of which came from brand partnerships with companies like YouTube, Coca Cola and cosmetics company Smashbox that latched onto Singh and her impressive following.

Of course, publishers noticed her, too, as her millions of superfans provide the ideal audience for her book. Other YouTubers like PewDiePie and Tyler Oakley have shown the capacity of digital stars to churn out best-sellers, with each selling over 130,000 and 220,000 copies of his book, respectively.

“Publishers are always looking for authors with strong platforms and YouTube stars come with a highly engaged and enthusiastic fan base,” said Sara Weiss, Singh’s editor.

But it took more than one try and some lucrative offers to rope Singh into the tremendous task of penning her manual, which comes in at over 300 pages. (She would not comment on the exact amount of her advance. When asked if it was around the $1,000,000 received by other YouTube stars, Singh only said “I’m very happy my book deal.”)

“I was adamant about waiting until I really had something to say,” she said, explaining why she chose to write a guidebook. “I’m not old or wise enough a memoir, but I was like ‘Dude, I’ve kissed Seth Rogen; I’ve had some really unique life experiences, and I’ve learned a lot.’”

She came up with hundreds of pieces of advice by taking notes of lessons-learned on her phone everyday. For readability-sake, she narrowed the list down to 50 morals for the final guide. The idea that Singh would dole out lessons may come off as a bit presuming, but each bit of advice gets presented in an authentic way, and her own mistakes are the building blocks of the book.

Courtesy of Ballantine Books

“I didn’t want to write a fairy-tale book of abstract things you couldn’t apply to real life,” she said. “I tell you how I learned these things; I answer the why and how.” (The back of the book issues a warning: “This book does NOT include hopeful thoughts, lucky charms, and cute quotes. That’s because success, happiness and everything else you want in life needs to be fought for—not wished for. In Lilly’s world, there are no escalators. Only stairs.”)

When asked her top tips for being a “bawse”, the first one came easy: She does her best to focus only on what’s in her own control--something she calls “playing Nintendo.” In the book she writes how much she loves playing video games, in part because she controls the outcome.

Her videos are another thing that are all hers: She posts a few times a week, and each video requires hours of brainstorming, script-writing, editing and shooting.

“Yesterday, I shot for eight hours,” she said when she spoke with Forbes last week. “People watch one of my seven minute videos and think it takes seven minutes to make. That’s the same thing as eating a meal in three minutes and saying it took three minutes to create.”

On top of her scripted channel, she also vlogs about her day to day life, opening up about her emotional state in a strikingly honest way. Perhaps that’s why we can trust her for another point of advice: “Get hurt efficiently.”

“Lessons are the silver-lining in any experience, whether it’s heartbreak or failure. Be sad and mourn, but also take something away,” she said.

Singh is one to talk, perhaps her biggest life victory came out of sadness. After graduating college, Singh decided to use YouTube as an outlet to express her struggles with depression.

“YouTube stars tend to be very open and transparent about their personal struggles and the difficulties of juggling their onscreen and off-screen selves,” said Weiss.

While channeling her feelings into comical videos and helping others be strong and powerful made Singh happy, it also had the side effect of making her a lot of money.

“I remember visiting FluffeeTalks, the Canadian creator, and he was telling me how he bought his new house from YouTube money,” she said, recalling realizing that she can actually make a living from her channel. “But I didn’t want to do it at first. I kept wondering if YouTube would be another Myspace--gone in five years.”

Her 2015 performance in India finally changed her mind. “These people all the way across the world had seen my videos,” she said, her voice getting a little emotional. “I thought, ‘this could be something; all these people are supporting me.’ YouTube isn’t something that can go away.” She added that the approval of her Indian parents also meant a lot.

Obviously it’s been a smart career move, and with YouTube stars only making more and more each year (the earnings of the creators behind the top ten channels increased 23% last year), it seems a worthy investment of her time.

That leads to another piece of advice: “Be grateful,” she says. “That sounds super cliche, tumblr-esque....but I can’t take for granted all the things I’ve gotten through YouTube.”

And if YouTube ever goes south? Singh doesn’t think it would happen anytime soon, adding she’d love to be a 60-year-old still uploading videos. If it does, well, she’s got a book full of advice for that.

For the latest on the entertainment industry, follow me on Twitter @MadelinePBerg.