If You Love “Harry Potter” You Won’t Be Able To Get Through This Post Without Crying
If You Love "Harry Potter" You Won't Be Able To Get Through This Post Without Crying
We recently asked members of the BuzzFeed Community to tell us what line from Harry Potter always makes them cry . Here are some of the most emotionally devastating replies: 1. Harry to Ron on their first journey on the Hogwarts Express: “‘Go on, have a pasty,’ said Harry, who had never had anything to share before or, indeed, anyone to share it with. It was a nice feeling, sitting there with Ron, eating their way through all Harry’s pasties, cakes, and candies (the sandwiches lay forgotten).” 2. When Harry sees his family for the first time in the Mirror Erised:  3. Dumbledore at the very end of the first book, in the Great Hall: “It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. Neville Longbottom.” 4. How Harry feels about the Burrow: “What Harry found most unusual about life at Ron’s, however, wasn’t the talking mirror or the clanking ghoul, it was the fact that everybody there seemed to like him.” 5. Sirius to Harry in  6. And more from Sirius to Harry: “You think the dead we loved ever truly leave us? You think that we don’t recall them more clearly than ever in times of great trouble? Your father is alive in you, Harry, and shows himself plainly when you have need of him.” 7. Dumbledore to Harry in : “‘You are protected, in short, by your ability to love!’ said Dumbledore loudly. ‘The only protection that can possibly work against the lure of power like Voldemort’s! In spite of all the temptation you have endured, all the suffering, you remain pure of heart, just as pure as you were at the age of eleven, when you stared into a mirror that reflected your heart’s desire, and it showed you only the way to thwart Lord Voldemort, and not immortality or riches. Harry, have you any idea how few wizards could have seen what you saw in that mirror? Voldemort should have known then what he was dealing with, but he did not!’” 8. Cedric to Harry as he battles Voldemort in  9. Dumbledore on Cedric’s death: “Remember, if the time should come when you have to make a choice between what is right and what is easy, remember what happened to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, because he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort. Remember Cedric Diggory.” 10. Mrs. Weasley to Harry at the end of : “Mrs. Weasley set the potion down on the bedside cabinet, bent down, and put her arms around Harry. He had no memory of ever being hugged like this, as though by a mother. The full weight of everything he had seen that night seemed to fall in upon him as Mrs. Weasley held him to her. His mother’s face, his father’s voice, the sight of Cedric, dead on the ground, all started spinning in his head until he could hardly bear it, until he was screwing up his face against the howl of misery fighting to get out of him.” 11. Molly Weasley to Bellatrix Lestrange at the Battle of Hogwarts:  12. When Harry, Ron, and Hermoine see Neville visiting his parents at St. Mungo’s: “‘Neville, put that wrapper in the bin, she must have given you enough of them to paper your bedroom by now.’ But as they left, Harry was sure he saw Neville slip the sweet wrapper into his pocket.” 13. Fleur after Bill has been attacked by Fenrir Greyback: “What do I care how he looks? I am good-looking enough for the both of us, I theenk! All these scars show is zat my husband is brave!” 14. After Dumbledore has drunk the potion from the basin in  15. Sirius’ death in “Harry saw the look of mingled fear and surprise on his godfather’s wasted, once- handsome face as he fell through the ancient doorway and disappeared behind the veil, which fluttered for a moment as though a high wind and then fell back into place.” 16. Harry to Dumbledore just after Sirius’ death: ‘“I DON’T CARE!” Harry yelled at them, snatching up a lunascope and throwing it into the fireplace. “I’VE HAD ENOUGH, I’VE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I WANT IT TO END, I DON’T CARE ANYMORE!” “You do care,” said Dumbledore. He had not flinched or made a single move to stop Harry demolishing his office. His expression was calm, almost detached. “You care so much you feel as though you will bleed to death with the pain of it.”’ 17. And a week later: “The week that had elapsed since he had last seen Sirius seemed to have lasted much, much longer: It stretched across two universes, the one with Sirius in it, and the one without.” 18. Fred’s death in :  19. Harry telling Dumbledore about Scrimgeour in “He accused me of being Dumbledore’s man through and through.” “How very rude of him.” “I told him I was.” Dumbledore opened his mouth to speak and then closed it again. Fawkes the phoenix let out a low, soft, musical cry. To Harry’s intense embarrassment, he suddenly realized that Dumbledore’s bright blue eyes looked rather watery, and stared hastily at his own knee. When Dumbledore spoke, however, his voice was quite steady. “I am very touched, Harry.” 20. Harry at the end of “In spite of the final meeting with Voldemort he knew must come, whether in a month, in a year, or in ten, he felt his heart lift at the thought that there was still one last golden day of peace left to enjoy with Ron and Hermione.” 21. Luna at Dobby’s death:  22. Luna to Harry as he tries to fight of dementors in the Battle of Hogwarts: “‘That’s right,’ said Luna encouragingly, as if they were back in the Room of Requirement and this was simply spell practice for the DA. ‘That’s right, Harry … come on, think of something happy …’ ‘Something happy?’ he said, his voice cracked. ‘We’re all still here,’ she whispered, ‘we’re still fighting. Come on, now …’ There was a silver spark, then a wavering light, and then, with the greatest effort it had ever cost him, the stag burst from the end of Harry’s wand.” 23. After Dumbledore’s death: “Fawkes had stopped singing. And he knew, without knowing how he knew it, that the phoenix had gone, had left Hogwarts for good, just as Dumbledore had left the school, had left the world…had left Harry.” 24. When Harry arrives at ~ghost King’s Cross~ and Dumbledore sees him:  25. Harry to Dumbledore about the whole ~ghost King’s Cross~ episode: “‘Tell me one thing,’ said Harry. ‘Is this real? Or has this been happening inside my head?’ Dumbledore beamed at him, and his voice sounded loud and strong in Harry’s ears even though the bright mist was descending again, obscuring his figure. ‘Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry, but why on earth should that mean that it is not real?’” 26. Dumbledore to Harry:  27. When Harry goes to meet his death: “It was, he thought, the difference between being dragged into the arena to face a battle to the death and walking into the arena with your head held high. Some people, perhaps, would say that there was little to choose between the two ways, but Dumbledore knew – and so do I, thought Harry, with a rush of fierce pride, and so did my that there was all the difference in the world.” 28. Harry right after realising he has to die:  29. Harry and his mother on the way meet Voldemort after using the Resurrection Stone in the Forbidden Forest: “Lily’s smile was widest of all. She pushed her long hair back as she drew close to him, and her green eyes, so like his, searched his face hungrily, as though she would never be able to look at him enough. ‘You’ve been so brave.’ He could not speak. His eyes feasted on her, and he thought that he would like to stand and look at her forever, and that would be enough.” 30. Harry to his mother:  31. The quote that needs no introduction: “Dumbledore watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow faded he turned back to Snape, and his eyes were full of tears. ‘After all this time?’ ‘Always,’ said Snape.” 32. Sirius, when Harry asks him if it hurts to die:  33. Harry visiting his parents’ grave in Godric’s Hollow: “But they were not living, Harry thought: they were gone. The empty words could not disguise the fact that his parents’ moldering remains lay beneath snow and stone, indifferent, unknowing. And tears came before he could stop them, boiling hot and then instantly freezing on his face, and what was the point in wiping them off, or pretending? He let them fall, his lips pressed hard together, looking down at the thick snow hiding from his eyes the place where the last of Lily and James lay, bones now, surely, or dust, not knowing or caring that their living son stood so near, his heart still beating, alive because of their sacrifice and close to wishing, at this moment, that he was sleeping under the snow with them.” 34. Harry asking his loved ones to stay with him in the forest:  35. And finally, when Harry goes to Dumbledore’s office after the Battle of Hogwarts: “But Harry had eyes only for the man who stood in the largest portrait directly behind the headmaster’s chair. Tears were sliding down from behind the half-moon spectacles into the long silver beard, and the pride and the gratitude emanating from him filled Harry with the same balm as phoenix song.” Make sure to follow the BuzzFeed Community on Facebook and Twitter for your chance to be featured in similar BuzzFeed posts!   16 Awards All British People Deserve    16 Deeply Romantic, Beautiful, And Sexy Places To Stay...

22. Luna to Harry as he tries to fight of dementors in the Battle of Hogwarts:

“‘That’s right,’ said Luna encouragingly, as if they were back in the Room of Requirement and this was simply spell practice for the DA. ‘That’s right, Harry … come on, think of something happy …’

‘Something happy?’ he said, his voice cracked.

‘We’re all still here,’ she whispered, ‘we’re still fighting. Come on, now …’

There was a silver spark, then a wavering light, and then, with the greatest effort it had ever cost him, the stag burst from the end of Harry’s wand.”