Justice Sotomayor, at Princeton, avoids any talk of Gorsuch
Justice Sotomayor, at Princeton, avoids any talk of Gorsuch
Shares                U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor spoke at her alma mater Princeton on Saturday on topics that touched on Hillary Clinton's loss in the presidential election , but she didn't mention President Donald Trump's Supreme Court pick, Judge Neil Gorsuch , and the ensuing conflict in the Senate. The event, hosted by the school's Latino Alumni organization, was aimed at celebrating the school's past and present Latino student body. Audience members were invited to ask Sotomayor anything they wanted as long as it didn't deal with current political events. This measure, Sotomayor noted, wasn't meant to be an indication that she didn't have an opinion. "There are judicial codes of conduct," she said. "We're not apolitical." And while she didn't weigh in on Trump's election, she lamented a missed opportunity to break the glass ceiling by electing a woman for president. "That's still an issue that permeates our society," she said. Sotomayor, appointed by former President Barack Obama , graduated from Princeton in 1976. Back then, she noted, the body of Latino students was much smaller. It was then that she realized that even though she might be a member of a minority group, it was still important to work with everyone. "To belong to the larger community is still important," she said. "We can't just talk to each other. We have to talk to everyone." She is the third woman and the first Latina to serve on the nation's highest court. But during the nomination process, the same one that Gorsuch is undergoing, Sotomayor began to reconsider her goal to be nominated. "Lots of negative stuff was said about me," she said. "And it hurt. I actually, seriously thought about pulling out of the process." Gorsuch, meanwhile, is facing his own set of challenges as Senate Democrats move to block his nomination. But Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and fellow Republicans are determined to confirm Gorsuch within the week as they consider changing Senate rules so he can be confirmed with a simple majority in the 100-seat chamber, instead of the 60-voter threshold. Shares                  Justice Sotomayor, at Princeton, avoids any talk of Gorsuch   UN envoy Nikki Haley says 'there's no love' in US relationship with Russia   'This Week' Transcript 4-2-17: Ambassador Nikki Haley, Ash Carter, Sen. John McCain, and Dmitry Peskov   Mass. city council to vote on Trump impeachment resolution   Bed Bath & Beyond: We still carry Ivanka Trump-branded items   Trump aide lashes out at Freedom Caucus lawmaker   Former National Security Adviser Flynn didn't initially disclose Russia speeches   Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner worth up to $740 million   White House officials played role in surfacing documents Nunes viewed   Nunes met by about 300 protesters upon returning to his district   Top Senate Dem slams GSA for OK'ing Trump hotel lease   Everything you need to know about the trade deficit   White House allowing public to request financials for senior staff   Congress rolls back rules on hunting, broadband privacy   Colombia: 193 dead after rivers overflow, toppling homes   Feathers fly as pillow war overtakes downtown Los Angeles   Barbershop finds success in out-of-the-box idea to get kids reading   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   7-year-old basketball star gets a special surprise from Harlem Globetrotters   93-year-old WWII vet prepares for upcoming birthday piano recital   Teacher raises $80K for bikes for elementary school's entire student body   School crossing guard, 91, marks 50 years of service

U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor spoke at her alma mater Princeton on Saturday on topics that touched on Hillary Clinton's loss in the presidential election, but she didn't mention President Donald Trump's Supreme Court pick, Judge Neil Gorsuch, and the ensuing conflict in the Senate.

The event, hosted by the school's Latino Alumni organization, was aimed at celebrating the school's past and present Latino student body. Audience members were invited to ask Sotomayor anything they wanted as long as it didn't deal with current political events.

This measure, Sotomayor noted, wasn't meant to be an indication that she didn't have an opinion.

"There are judicial codes of conduct," she said. "We're not apolitical."

And while she didn't weigh in on Trump's election, she lamented a missed opportunity to break the glass ceiling by electing a woman for president.

"That's still an issue that permeates our society," she said.

Sotomayor, appointed by former President Barack Obama, graduated from Princeton in 1976. Back then, she noted, the body of Latino students was much smaller. It was then that she realized that even though she might be a member of a minority group, it was still important to work with everyone.

"To belong to the larger community is still important," she said. "We can't just talk to each other. We have to talk to everyone."

She is the third woman and the first Latina to serve on the nation's highest court. But during the nomination process, the same one that Gorsuch is undergoing, Sotomayor began to reconsider her goal to be nominated.

"Lots of negative stuff was said about me," she said. "And it hurt. I actually, seriously thought about pulling out of the process."

Gorsuch, meanwhile, is facing his own set of challenges as Senate Democrats move to block his nomination. But Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and fellow Republicans are determined to confirm Gorsuch within the week as they consider changing Senate rules so he can be confirmed with a simple majority in the 100-seat chamber, instead of the 60-voter threshold.