28-day limit on police bail comes into force in the UK

Press Association   Police will face new curbs on their use of bail from Monday after coming under severe criticism for leaving people in legal limbo for months or even years. A 28-day limit on pre-charge bail comes into effect as part of a government shakeup aiming to end the “injustice” to individuals kept under a cloud of suspicion for excessive periods of time. Until now, forces have not been bound by any cap on how long someone can be bailed for. Calls for a change to the regime intensified in the wake of cases which saw high-profile figures kept on bail for months before learning that they had been cleared. The 28-day limit has been backed by the broadcaster Paul Gambaccini , who spent a year on bail before the case against him was dropped and he was told he would not be charged over historical allegations of sex abuse. Gambaccini has previously told how he faced the “full weight of the state” for 12 months in relation to a “completely fictitious” case. Pre-charge bail, also known as police bail, allows those under investigation to be released from custody, potentially subject to conditions, while officers continue their inquiries. Estimates indicate that more than 400,000 people are placed on pre-charge bail every year. Under the measures taking effect on Monday, it will still be possible for police to secure an extension beyond the initial 28-day bail period where it is deemed appropriate and necessary. One extension of up to three months can be authorised by a senior police officer at superintendent level or above. In exceptional circumstances, where the police need to keep an individual on bail for longer, they will have to apply to a magistrate. Bail will now only be used when it is “necessary and proportionate”, and where this is not the case there will be a presumption that people will be released without bail. Home secretary Amber Rudd said: “Pre-charge bail is a useful and necessary tool, but in many cases it is being imposed on people for many months, or even years, without any judicial oversight – and that cannot be right. These important reforms will mean fewer people are placed on bail and for shorter periods. “They will bring about much-needed safeguards – public accountability and independent scrutiny – while ensuring the police can continue to do their vital work.” Andy Ward, deputy general secretary of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said it will mean a “massive change” in custody culture. He warned that the 28-day limit was unrealistic for complex investigations: “Cybercrime, for example, requires computers to be seized and equipment to be interrogated to gain evidence. The results for detailed forensic tests also take some time to come back.” Darren Martland, assistant chief constable and National Police Chiefs’ Council lead on pre-charge bail, said chief officers had worked closely with the Home Office and the College of Policing to ensure that forces were aware of the reforms and ready to implement them. He added: “The legislation represents a significant change in procedure, but police forces and criminal justice agencies will continue to give careful consideration to the safety of victims, witnesses and the general public, which will be balanced against the rights of a suspect.” David Tucker, crime lead at the College of Policing, said: “The new legislation is a significant change for policing and has sought to strike a balance between the need for police to manage investigations and not leaving a person suspected of a crime on bail for an unacceptably long period.”  Police   Human rights   Metropolitan police   Amber Rudd   news

Police face new curbs on their use of bail following severe criticism over prolonged bail periods leaving people in legal limbo for months or years

Police will face new curbs on their use of bail from Monday after coming under severe criticism for leaving people in legal limbo for months or even years.

A 28-day limit on pre-charge bail comes into effect as part of a government shakeup aiming to end the “injustice” to individuals kept under a cloud of suspicion for excessive periods of time.

Why are so many people in Britain on endless police bail without charge? | Neil Wallis Read more

Until now, forces have not been bound by any cap on how long someone can be bailed for. Calls for a change to the regime intensified in the wake of cases which saw high-profile figures kept on bail for months before learning that they had been cleared.

The 28-day limit has been backed by the broadcaster Paul Gambaccini, who spent a year on bail before the case against him was dropped and he was told he would not be charged over historical allegations of sex abuse. Gambaccini has previously told how he faced the “full weight of the state” for 12 months in relation to a “completely fictitious” case.

Pre-charge bail, also known as police bail, allows those under investigation to be released from custody, potentially subject to conditions, while officers continue their inquiries. Estimates indicate that more than 400,000 people are placed on pre-charge bail every year.

Under the measures taking effect on Monday, it will still be possible for police to secure an extension beyond the initial 28-day bail period where it is deemed appropriate and necessary. One extension of up to three months can be authorised by a senior police officer at superintendent level or above. In exceptional circumstances, where the police need to keep an individual on bail for longer, they will have to apply to a magistrate.

Bail will now only be used when it is “necessary and proportionate”, and where this is not the case there will be a presumption that people will be released without bail.

Home secretary Amber Rudd said: “Pre-charge bail is a useful and necessary tool, but in many cases it is being imposed on people for many months, or even years, without any judicial oversight – and that cannot be right. These important reforms will mean fewer people are placed on bail and for shorter periods.

“They will bring about much-needed safeguards – public accountability and independent scrutiny – while ensuring the police can continue to do their vital work.”

Andy Ward, deputy general secretary of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said it will mean a “massive change” in custody culture. He warned that the 28-day limit was unrealistic for complex investigations: “Cybercrime, for example, requires computers to be seized and equipment to be interrogated to gain evidence. The results for detailed forensic tests also take some time to come back.”

Darren Martland, assistant chief constable and National Police Chiefs’ Council lead on pre-charge bail, said chief officers had worked closely with the Home Office and the College of Policing to ensure that forces were aware of the reforms and ready to implement them.

He added: “The legislation represents a significant change in procedure, but police forces and criminal justice agencies will continue to give careful consideration to the safety of victims, witnesses and the general public, which will be balanced against the rights of a suspect.”

David Tucker, crime lead at the College of Policing, said: “The new legislation is a significant change for policing and has sought to strike a balance between the need for police to manage investigations and not leaving a person suspected of a crime on bail for an unacceptably long period.”