Trump's Net Worth Falls $200 Million Since Election
Trump's Net Worth Falls $200 Million Since Election
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Chase Peterson-Withorn       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Forbes Staff Click to view full coverage of Trump's Global Web of Partners Here is a complete, asset-by-asset breakdown of how the president's net worth dropped from an estimated $3.7 billion to $3.5 billion since the election. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Dan Alexander, Chase Peterson-Withorn, Jennifer Wang and Daniela Sirtori-Cortina

The presidency has its perks, especially for someone with the business empire of Donald Trump. Since the election, initiation fees at his Palm Beach club, Mar-a-Lago, reportedly doubled to $200,000, penthouses in his Las Vegas tower are going for record prices, and guests paid as much as $18,000 a night to stay in his new Washington, D.C., hotel during the inauguration. Yet despite all of that, Forbes estimates that the president is worth $3.5 billion -- $200 million poorer today than he was before the election and 220 spots lower, to number 544, on our worldwide rankings.

That's because, at its core, the Trump Organization is still a midtown Manhattan real estate firm, albeit one with tentacles around the globe. Forty percent of Donald Trump's fortune is tied up in Trump Tower and eight buildings within one mile of it. What happens in that micromarket does more to affect the net worth of Donald Trump than anything else in the world. Lately, the neighborhood has been struggling (relatively speaking). Net operating profits have fallen at Trump Tower. Nike, the lone tenant at the Trump-owned Niketown, just signed a reported $700 million deal in December for a spot a few blocks south, suggesting its days at its current location may be numbered.

Forbes Staff

Trump’s cash pile took a hit as well. Public records show that he donated $66 million to his presidential campaign, 19% of its total budget. Ten days after he won the election, he settled a lawsuit over Trump University, which prosecutors say swindled millions from its students, for an additional $25 million. Assuming Trump sold off all of his stocks during last year’s campaign, as he has claimed, the president likely missed out on the “Trump rally” that has lifted the stock market roughly 10% since his election. The average billionaire saw his or her wealth grow by 16% since last year's Billionaires list; Trump's fell by 22% over that same time period.

Read More: Full Coverage of FORBES' Billionaires 2017

Still, there are bright spots in the Trump portfolio. In downtown Manhattan, the real estate market is experiencing something of a resurgence, driving up the value of Trump’s iconic 40 Wall Street tower by an estimated $18 million. Forbes estimates that the president’s favorite weekend getaway, Mar-a-Lago, is worth $25 million more since the election, partially thanks to a steady stream of headlines about the property that have given it more exposure than any realtor ever could. And the overall hotel market is up, fueling an estimated $97 million increase in the value of Trump’s hotel management and licensing business, even though the Trump Organization has promised to do no new foreign deals.

Read More: Billionaires’ Secrets To Building Wealth

The Trump family remains mostly positive. "The hotels are doing great, the golf clubs are doing amazing," says first son Eric Trump, sitting in his office on the 25th floor of Trump Tower. "We also made great sacrifices."

Here is a complete, asset-by-asset breakdown of how the president's net worth dropped from an estimated $3.7 billion to $3.5 billion since the election.

You can reach me via email (cpeterson-withorn@forbes.com) and Twitter.