Bob Dylan finally collects his Nobel Prize for Literature
Bob Dylan finally collects his Nobel Prize for Literature
Bob Dylan performs on stage during the 21st edition of the Vieilles Charrues music festival on July 22, 2012 in Carhaix-Plouguer, western France                Tweet     Stumble     Email  Bob Dylan finally has his hands on his Nobel Literature diploma and medal. Klas Ostergren, a member of the Swedish Academy, said the 75-year-old American singer-songwriter received his award during a small gathering Saturday afternoon at a hotel next to the conference center where Dylan was performing a concert later that night. Inside the Bob Dylan Archive  Ostergren told The Associated Press that the ceremony was a small, intimate event in line with the singer’s wishes, with just academy members and a member of Dylan’s staff attending. Bob Dylan honored with Nobel Prize Bob Dylan was honored with a Nobel Prize in literature despite not being at the ceremony. The award was presented at the Royal Swedish Academy of... “It went very well indeed,” he said, describing Dylan as “a very nice, kind man.” Other members of the academy told Swedish media that Dylan seemed pleased by the award. During his show hours later, Dylan made no reference to the Nobel award, simply performing a set blending old classics with tunes from his more recent albums. Dylan had declined the invitation to attend the traditional Nobel Prize banquet and ceremony on Dec. 10 - the date of Alfred Nobel’s death -pleading other commitments. But in order to receive the award worth more than $800,000, Dylan must give a lecture within six months from Dec. 10. He has said he will not give his Nobel lecture this weekend but a recorded version of it will be sent later. Taped Nobel lectures have been occasionally presented, most recently in 2013 by Canadian Nobel literature laureate Alice Munro. Bob Dylan, folk rock music legend The singer-songwriter, who first came on the music scene in the 1960s as a voice of rebellion, became the first musician to be awarded the Nobel ... The 2016 Nobel Prize in Literature was awarded to Dylan “for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition.” He had expressed awe at receiving the Nobel Prize and thanked the Swedish Academy for including him among the “giants” of writing. Besides his two concerts in Stockholm, Dylan will also play in the southwestern city of Lund on April 9.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

STOCKHOLM -- Bob Dylan finally has his hands on his Nobel Literature diploma and medal.

Klas Ostergren, a member of the Swedish Academy, said the 75-year-old American singer-songwriter received his award during a small gathering Saturday afternoon at a hotel next to the conference center where Dylan was performing a concert later that night.

Ostergren told The Associated Press that the ceremony was a small, intimate event in line with the singer’s wishes, with just academy members and a member of Dylan’s staff attending.

“It went very well indeed,” he said, describing Dylan as “a very nice, kind man.”

Other members of the academy told Swedish media that Dylan seemed pleased by the award.

During his show hours later, Dylan made no reference to the Nobel award, simply performing a set blending old classics with tunes from his more recent albums.

Dylan had declined the invitation to attend the traditional Nobel Prize banquet and ceremony on Dec. 10 - the date of Alfred Nobel’s death -pleading other commitments.

But in order to receive the award worth more than $800,000, Dylan must give a lecture within six months from Dec. 10. He has said he will not give his Nobel lecture this weekend but a recorded version of it will be sent later.

Taped Nobel lectures have been occasionally presented, most recently in 2013 by Canadian Nobel literature laureate Alice Munro.

The 2016 Nobel Prize in Literature was awarded to Dylan “for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition.” He had expressed awe at receiving the Nobel Prize and thanked the Swedish Academy for including him among the “giants” of writing.



Besides his two concerts in Stockholm, Dylan will also play in the southwestern city of Lund on April 9.