Gingrich: All 'Real Evidence' of Russian Influence Points to Democrats

Gingrich: All 'Real Evidence' of Russian Influence Points to Democrats // // // // // President Trump has called investigations in Russian interference or collusion with himself or his campaign "a total scam," and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) backed up that sentiment on "Sunday Morning Futures." Gingrich said that "all of the real evidence" of money being exchanged or purchasing of influence points to Democrats, not Republicans. It is the same Fake News Media that said there is "no path to victory for Trump" that is now pushing the phony Russia story. A total scam! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 1, 2017 . @newtgingrich : "All of the real evidence of real money and real influence buying by the Russians relates to Democrats." #SundayFutures  pic.twitter.com/niWt9bLrZJ — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 2, 2017 Americans should know what Russia is up to, he said, adding that it is "ironic" that Democrats are pressing for probes of Trump associates while failing to look within. He said one of the Podesta brothers is a registered agent for a Russian bank. John Podesta was Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman. "There's no evidence that anybody was particularly being purchased on the Republican side. [The investigation should] be about the degree to which the U.S. is penetrated with efforts to corrupt our society and to purchase influence," Gingrich said. He added that anyone called to testify in the Congressional investigations should plead the Fifth unless granted immunity. He pointed to what he called an independent counsel's attempt to "destroy Scooter Libby" during the Valerie Plame investigation.

President Trump has called investigations in Russian interference or collusion with himself or his campaign "a total scam," and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) backed up that sentiment on "Sunday Morning Futures."

Gingrich said that "all of the real evidence" of money being exchanged or purchasing of influence points to Democrats, not Republicans.

It is the same Fake News Media that said there is "no path to victory for Trump" that is now pushing the phony Russia story. A total scam! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 1, 2017

.@newtgingrich: "All of the real evidence of real money and real influence buying by the Russians relates to Democrats." #SundayFutures pic.twitter.com/niWt9bLrZJ — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 2, 2017

Americans should know what Russia is up to, he said, adding that it is "ironic" that Democrats are pressing for probes of Trump associates while failing to look within.

Gohmert to Trump: Work With Freedom Caucus, We Stood By You When Ryan 'Ran Scared'

Kyei: Rahm Needs 'Nice Warm Jail Cell' If He Ignores Sanctuary City Crackdown

Pirro: 'Bozos' Still Haven't Figured Out What Russia Did to Stop 'Queen Hillary's Coronation'

He said one of the Podesta brothers is a registered agent for a Russian bank. John Podesta was Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman.

"There's no evidence that anybody was particularly being purchased on the Republican side. [The investigation should] be about the degree to which the U.S. is penetrated with efforts to corrupt our society and to purchase influence," Gingrich said.

He added that anyone called to testify in the Congressional investigations should plead the Fifth unless granted immunity.

He pointed to what he called an independent counsel's attempt to "destroy Scooter Libby" during the Valerie Plame investigation.

Carr: Real 'Fake News' Is Media's Failure to Cover Illegal Immigrant Crimes

Senate's 'Institution Is At Stake': Manchin Pressing Dems to Allow Gorsuch Vote

Trump Applauds NYT Report Showing ObamaCare in Trouble