Everyone Is Trying to Guess the Gender of Beyoncé’s Twins From Her Latest Instagram
Everyone Is Trying to Guess the Gender of Beyoncé’s Twins From Her Latest Instagram
The media hysterics over Blue Ivy Carter were fierce, but the game has changed since Beyoncé and Jay-Z's first daughter was born in 2012. Beyoncé has turned her second pregnancy into a public event, inviting fans to feel like they're part of her motherhood journey. é A post shared by ( ) on Apr 1, 2017 at 7: PDT A post shared by ( ) on Apr 1, 2017 at 7: PDT A post shared by ( ) on Apr 1, 2017 at 7: PDT é I think is having girls because she keeps wearing blue to make us think boys but blue is also Blue's name...💗 commenter é é é

The media hysterics over Blue Ivy Carter were fierce, but the game has changed since Beyoncé and Jay-Z's first daughter was born in 2012. Beyoncé has turned her second pregnancy into a public event, inviting fans to feel like they're part of her motherhood journey.

People take that role pretty seriously, as it turns out. Every time Beyoncé shares a new picture on Instagram, fans flock to the comment section to try to crack the code they think she's speaking in. Her latest posts are no different:

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Apr 1, 2017 at 7:39pm PDT

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Apr 1, 2017 at 7:40pm PDT

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Apr 1, 2017 at 7:48pm PDT

The volume alone is staggering -- as of this writing, nearly 18,000 people have left a comment on post in particular -- but it's the wild fan theories that make this so entertaining. The same impulse that drives people to believe Jay and Beyoncé are in the illuminati (#StayWoke) also makes them believe signs are hidden in the color scheme of Instagram shots.

As if we needed another controversy over a "blue" dress, no one can decide whether the color of her dress provides definitive proof. Some fans think it's quite clear (blue = boy), but there are dissenters who think it's a coded message, playing off the name of Blue Ivy:

I think @beyonce is having girls because she keeps wearing blue to make us think boys but blue is also Blue's name...💗 — jennifer ( @themissjenn ) April 2, 2017

And the color of the dress isn't even completely agreed upon. While the dress she's wearing appears to be blue at first glance, one of the photos shows it looking like it's actually purple. Her fans have convinced themselves that's a clue. "If you guys didn't know," one commenter writes, "her dress is purple. What creates purple? Blue and pink (red). She might be having a girl and a boy."

Image via Instagram

Image via Instagram

Image via Instagram

Beyoncé appears to be openly seeking the speculation; colors are selectively removed from a couple of the pictures, but duller shades of blue and pink remain intact. Either she and her social media team are having fun with this, or they see the anticipation for the big reveal and are happy to play into it.

The only thing we know for sure is that Tracy Morgan and Kenan Thompson are not going to come tumbling out Beyoncé's womb when the big day comes. Unless you're Beyoncé, her doctor or Jay-Z, it's unlikely you're going to find out their gender before the due date arrives.