Germany is showing Donald Trump how to America
Germany is showing Donald Trump how to America
From this moment on, it’s going to be America First. Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers and American families... We will bring back our jobs. We will bring back our borders.  We will bring back our wealth.  And we will bring back our dreams. Moreover, the President has acted on his determination to 'build a wall' between the United States and Mexico, even if a lot of places it's going to be a fence . Trump supporters and the administration have attributed Germany's woes to the number of refugees the country accepted. Yet, writer David Beard has made this point regarding Germany's economy and their immigration policy. No joke: Germany acted like America of old, taking in a million refugees. Its economy strengthened & unemployment keeps going DOWN. Chart: pic.twitter.com/34g27QlMAU  In a chart tracking German unemployment, it shows a steep decline since 2004, one which appears to have hastened at the same times that immigration to Germany increased. On Friday, Germany announced a record low level of unemployment, and a booming economy. In March the German jobless rate dropped to 5.8 per cent. Also, this month consumer price inflation slowed to 1.5 per cent. This occurred in the same year that Germany received an even greater proportion of asylum applications.  According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics , the US unemployment rate was also down by 0.2 per cent on February 2016, to 4.7 per cent in February 2017.                    Keep scrolling for next article

In his inauguration speech United States President Donald Trump reiterated a refrain often made during his campaign:

From this moment on, it’s going to be America First. Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers and American families... We will bring back our jobs. We will bring back our borders. We will bring back our wealth. And we will bring back our dreams.

Moreover, the President has acted on his determination to 'build a wall' between the United States and Mexico, even if a lot of places it's going to be a fence.

Trump supporters and the administration have attributed Germany's woes to the number of refugees the country accepted.

Yet, writer David Beard has made this point regarding Germany's economy and their immigration policy.

No joke: Germany acted like America of old, taking in a million refugees. Its economy strengthened & unemployment keeps going DOWN. Chart: pic.twitter.com/34g27QlMAU — David Beard (@dabeard) April 1, 2017

In a chart tracking German unemployment, it shows a steep decline since 2004, one which appears to have hastened at the same times that immigration to Germany increased.

On Friday, Germany announced a record low level of unemployment, and a booming economy.

In March the German jobless rate dropped to 5.8 per cent.

Also, this month consumer price inflation slowed to 1.5 per cent.

This occurred in the same year that Germany received an even greater proportion of asylum applications.

According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, the US unemployment rate was also down by 0.2 per cent on February 2016, to 4.7 per cent in February 2017.

HT Bloomberg

More: Donald Trump's grandfather begged a German prince not to be deported