The internet is losing its mind over these eerie photos of Nicola Sturgeon and Margaret Thatcher
The internet is losing its mind over these eerie photos of Nicola Sturgeon and Margaret Thatcher
While May is the second female prime minister, from the same party most the similarities end there. Yet there's another politician who, if not similar politically, may be intentionally aping the Iron Lady's aesthetic. On Thursday, Nicola Sturgeon signed a 'Section 30' letter, with which she formally requested a referendum on Scottish independence from Theresa May. The Scottish government posted the image to Twitter:  Those with a long memory were reminded of this image of Margaret Thatcher, in a similar pose in Downing Street, 1983.  In fact, Sturgeon's opponent and leader of the Scottish Conservatives even highlighted the similarities. Well, you know what they say about imitation and flattery.... pic.twitter.com/R7SltrrWjW  Since these images were first compared, other snaps have been unearthed. The UK politics subreddit placed these side by side.  The similarities go beyond choice of outfits. In 2016, the Scottish National Party were mocked by opponents for appearing to copy a slogan used by Thatcher in the 1979 election. Sturgeon says #Brexit needs to lessen inequality. First she steals Thatcher's poster; now she's stealing May's lines. #latetotheparty  #IoDAC  pic.twitter.com/jXAiQq6yCz  "..and then she forced through massive cuts." pic.twitter.com/h8Oc48bMNM  I can understand why Sturgeon wants to emulate Thatcher. After all Sturgeon's family were able to buy their home to due right to buy in 1984 pic.twitter.com/9HJahmS223   ,                    Keep scrolling for next article

Theresa May has been repeatedly compared to Mrs Thatcher (much to her chagrin).

While May is the second female prime minister, from the same party most the similarities end there.

Yet there's another politician who, if not similar politically, may be intentionally aping the Iron Lady's aesthetic.

On Thursday, Nicola Sturgeon signed a 'Section 30' letter, with which she formally requested a referendum on Scottish independence from Theresa May.

The Scottish government posted the image to Twitter:

Picture: Stuart Nicol Photography/The Scottish Government via Getty Images

Those with a long memory were reminded of this image of Margaret Thatcher, in a similar pose in Downing Street, 1983.

Picture: Herbie Knott /Rex Features/ Shutterstock

In fact, Sturgeon's opponent and leader of the Scottish Conservatives even highlighted the similarities.

Well, you know what they say about imitation and flattery.... pic.twitter.com/R7SltrrWjW — Ruth Davidson (@RuthDavidsonMSP) March 30, 2017

Since these images were first compared, other snaps have been unearthed.

The UK politics subreddit placed these side by side.

Pictures, left: PA/PA Archive/PA Images, right: Danny Lawson/PA Archive/PA Images



The similarities go beyond choice of outfits.

In 2016, the Scottish National Party were mocked by opponents for appearing to copy a slogan used by Thatcher in the 1979 election.

"..and then she forced through massive cuts." pic.twitter.com/h8Oc48bMNM — Kezia Dugdale (@kezdugdale) April 24, 2016

I can understand why Sturgeon wants to emulate Thatcher. After all Sturgeon's family were able to buy their home to due right to buy in 1984 pic.twitter.com/9HJahmS223 — Shteve (@SteveBlogs1) April 1, 2017

HT Reddit, Huffington Post

More: The man who wrote article 50 thinks it's "balls" independent Scotland won't be in the EU