Sen. McCain calls Michael Flynn’s request for immunity 'unusual'
Sen. McCain calls Michael Flynn’s request for immunity 'unusual'
Shares               Sen. John McCain called it "unusual" that former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn requested immunity in exchange for testimony about Russia's possible ties to him and other associates of President Trump . In a Facebook Live interview following his appearance on ABC News' “This Week" on Sunday, the Senate Armed Services Committee chairman was asked if Flynn’s immunity request could fuel suspicion that contacts between Trump associates and Russia were improper. “Well, I can only conclude that,” McCain said. “Now, other smart people who are lawyers ... say this is kind of a routine thing. Well, it may be. But it certainly is unusual from my experience.”       The Arizona Republican has repeatedly said that an independent panel is needed to investigate allegations of ties between Trump associates and Russia. “I don't know if they’re true, I don't know if they’re false,” McCain said of the allegations. “I am making no judgment. I am just saying that they need to be thoroughly investigated, and we have reached a level where a select committee or even a commission is necessary.” Even with the ongoing Russia investigations by Congress and the FBI , McCain said he believes President Trump can get his agenda back on track if he gets bipartisan support. “One of the aspects of the Reagan presidency was that he reached out to the Democrats ," McCain said. "And they fought him tooth and nail, and it was very partisan and all that. But he developed a relationship with them so when it really became crunch time, they were able to get things done. That’s what we need to do.” Shares                  Sen. McCain calls Michael Flynn’s request for immunity 'unusual'   Jared Kushner in Iraq, US official says   Trump, Rand Paul hit the links to talk health care   Third Senate Democrat pledges to support Trump's Supreme Court nominee   White House disputes claims that Trump aide's tweet violated federal ethics law   Schiff: Trump's calling news 'fake' should set off 'alarm bells'   Russia ‘is succeeding’ at influence, election interference around world, McCain says   Ash Carter on where a US pre-emptive strike on North Korea could lead   UN envoy Nikki Haley says 'there's no love' in US relationship with Russia   'This Week' Transcript 4-2-17: Ambassador Nikki Haley, Ash Carter, Sen. John McCain, and Dmitry Peskov   Mass. city council to vote on Trump impeachment resolution   Bed Bath & Beyond: We still carry Ivanka Trump-branded items   Desperate search for survivors of Colombia flood; more than 200 dead   Leftist Moreno declared winner in Ecuador presidential race   Thompson loses ANA Inspiration after day-old penalty   Twin toddlers reenact their favorite scene from 'Frozen'   London attack victim stands on her own after broken leg   Barbershop finds success in out-of-the-box idea to get kids reading   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain

Sen. John McCain called it "unusual" that former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn requested immunity in exchange for testimony about Russia's possible ties to him and other associates of President Trump.

In a Facebook Live interview following his appearance on ABC News' “This Week" on Sunday, the Senate Armed Services Committee chairman was asked if Flynn’s immunity request could fuel suspicion that contacts between Trump associates and Russia were improper.

“Well, I can only conclude that,” McCain said. “Now, other smart people who are lawyers ... say this is kind of a routine thing. Well, it may be. But it certainly is unusual from my experience.”

The Arizona Republican has repeatedly said that an independent panel is needed to investigate allegations of ties between Trump associates and Russia.

“I don't know if they’re true, I don't know if they’re false,” McCain said of the allegations. “I am making no judgment. I am just saying that they need to be thoroughly investigated, and we have reached a level where a select committee or even a commission is necessary.”

Even with the ongoing Russia investigations by Congress and the FBI, McCain said he believes President Trump can get his agenda back on track if he gets bipartisan support.

“One of the aspects of the Reagan presidency was that he reached out to the Democrats," McCain said. "And they fought him tooth and nail, and it was very partisan and all that. But he developed a relationship with them so when it really became crunch time, they were able to get things done. That’s what we need to do.”