Should Australians be able to opt out of Medicare? This professor thinks so



Should Australians be able to opt out of Medicare? This professor thinks so

Updated

Your private health insurance should be able to fully substitute Medicare, rather than overlap with and supplement it, according to one economist with a radical proposal to overhaul Australia's health system.

Currently, Australians above a certain income threshold incur what is known as the Medicare levy surcharge.

The Government offers a rebate for people who take up private health insurance as an incentive to help shift the burden of health care costs to the private sector.

But Francesco Paolucci, the head of health policy at Murdoch University's Sir Walter Murdoch School of Public Policy and International Affairs, has developed an alternative model.

He says it's designed to avoid what he describes as "inefficient duplication".

What's wrong with the current system?

Lesley Russell from the Menzies Institute of Health Policy at Sydney University says the usual rationale given for the Australian system is "choice".

"But what does that really mean?" she says.

"If you're living in rural Tasmania, what sort of choice do you really have about using a private hospital facility or even a private doctor? We've never really had that explained.

"The other thing that's unique about our public-private relationship — that's almost amusing, it's so crazy — is that you're required, if you reach certain income levels, to buy private health insurance.

"You're not required to use it, and a lot of people don't. It's estimated that fully 25 per cent of people who have private health insurance choose not to use it when they go to hospital."

What's the alternative proposal?

Professor Paolucci says his proposal builds on the strength of the current system but would let individuals decide the insurer and purchaser of their health services.

At the moment, you can access private insurance while retaining Medicare coverage.

According to Professor Paolucci's proposal, individuals would be enabled to make a choice between public and private health insurers.

"This would clearly remove the duplication," he says.

"Obviously, to make this efficient and affordable, subsidies are required targeting vulnerable groups (such as low-income and high-risk individuals).

"At the same time it would need to allow everyone to access the same services, both public and private, which would be nationally defined in a standardised package.

"Initially the Medicare Benefits Scheme and the PBS frameworks could be utilised, and similar ones would need to be developed for hospital and primary care services including GP-care currently not covered by private health insurance."

Professor Paolucci says the key is universal coverage for a standardised nationally defined basic package, which would be the same for those who opt out and for those who stay with Medicare.

"Basically, that standardised benefit package would be the basis for calculating the risk-adjusted subsidies for individuals that stay and for individuals that opt out," he says.

How would it work?

"Obviously, the key is to ensure choice and affordable access to services, independently of individuals' risk profile and income levels, while delivering them efficiently," Professor Paolucci says.

"Adopting efficient regulatory tools such as risk-adjusted subsidies, open enrolment, national standardised package of public and private services, and annual choice of health insurer, is essential.

"For example, in terms of guaranteeing affordable access risk-adjusted subsidies would ensure that individuals who have a high cost or they are chronically ill would receive a higher subsidy compared to lower-risk individuals.

"At the same time, community-rating regulations could be gradually relaxed and a system where prices differ according to risks within certain bands could be organised and managed by antitrust and prudential authorities.

"But individuals would be compensated for their premium, based on their risk profile, through the risk-adjusted subsidy scheme."

Why not go for universal health care and just rid get of private insurance altogether?

"In a single-payer mechanism like you observe in many countries — Scandinavia, Mediterranean countries and the UK — the level of choice is limited, or if it is allowed, it's mainly between providers and not between prudent buyers of care on their behalf," Professor Paolucci says.

"As an economist, I have to say that this has a number of inefficiencies, considering that individuals and providers have asymmetric access to information that is crucial to make conscious and cost-effective decisions."

Topics: adolescent-health, child-health-and-behaviour, health-insurance, health-policy, health, doctors-and-medical-professionals, australia

First posted