Homeowner arrested after fatally shooting intruder he found in his shower: Police
Homeowner arrested after killing intruder in his shower: Police
Shares               A Washington state homeowner was arrested on murder charges Saturday after he fatally shot a man who he found taking a shower in his home, according to police. The homeowner shot Nathaniel Joseph Rosa, 31, multiple times after he said he noticed signs of forced entry at his home in Mason County, Washington, the Mason County Sheriff’s office said Saturday. The homeowner, who has not been identified, was arrested on second-degree murder charges, the sheriff’s office said. The sheriff announced the arrest via Twitter and said it would release more information in a press release Monday. "There is more to the story that can not be released yet," the office said in a Twitter post Saturday.  Lots of reactions to the arrest. There is more to the story that can not be released yet. You may reserve your judgement until facts are out  The homeowner said he arrived at the home, one of at least two that he owns in the Belfair, Washington area, at around 8 a.m. and noticed that a door had been kicked in, according to police. The homeowner went inside and exchanged words with Rosa, who was in the shower, at the time, police said. The homeowner left the premises, without calling the police, and returned with a firearm, police said. "He returned home, retrieved a firearm, came back over to the residence and fired multiple rounds into the shower ... killing the intruder," Mason County Sheriff's Lt. Travis Adams told ABC affiliate KOMO.  Update: Homeowner has been arrested for Murder 2. Intruder was shot multiple times while in the shower. pic.twitter.com/1cPLo3PDEb  The homeowner called 911 and said that he had shot and killed an intruder, Adams told KOMO. It’s not clear how long the victim had been inside the property, but police said the homeowner had enough time to call for help before firing shots. "Certainly he had an opportunity to call law enforcement at that time," Adams said. "And we’ve contacted our local prosecutor, explained the circumstances to him, and he agrees that second-degree murder was an appropriate charge in this case." Shares                  Homeowner arrested after killing intruder in his shower: Police   Desperate search for survivors of Colombia flood; more than 200 dead   Jared Kushner in Iraq, US official says   Leftist claims win in Ecuador election; rival cries foul   Third Senate Democrat pledges to support Trump's Supreme Court nominee   Atlanta faces toughest test after fallen highway overpass   Sen. McCain calls Michael Flynn’s request for immunity 'unusual'   'Bathroom bill' compromise angers Democratic gov's allies   Southern California rescuers on lookout for tangled whale   UN envoy Nikki Haley says 'there's no love' in US relationship with Russia   Missing teen's family attorney calls new footage of ex-teacher, student 'a very scary image'   Thompson loses ANA Inspiration after day-old penalty   Twin toddlers reenact their favorite scene from 'Frozen'   London attack victim stands on her own after broken leg   Barbershop finds success in out-of-the-box idea to get kids reading   Girl with rare, severe face cancer sparks emotion in 'hope' photo campaign   Man buys 40 Powerades for 5th graders stranded on interstate from broken-down bus   April the giraffe 'has progressed significantly,' park owner says   Ducklings plucked from a Florida drain   Dems urge Trump to veto bill blocking online privacy rule   Venezuela opposition seeks removal of Supreme court judges   Poll: Merkel's conservatives in dead heat with challenger   Fire hits Dubai high-rise complex near world's tallest tower   Schiff: Trump's calling news 'fake' should set off 'alarm bells'   Chicago cops expect more arrests in alleged sexual assault of 15-year-old girl streamed on Facebook Live   Man rescued after shark attacks kayak off Australian coast   South Carolina wins 1st national title, beats Miss St 67-55   John Cena and Nikki Bella get engaged at WrestleMania

A Washington state homeowner was arrested on murder charges Saturday after he fatally shot a man who he found taking a shower in his home, according to police.

The homeowner shot Nathaniel Joseph Rosa, 31, multiple times after he said he noticed signs of forced entry at his home in Mason County, Washington, the Mason County Sheriff’s office said Saturday.

The homeowner, who has not been identified, was arrested on second-degree murder charges, the sheriff’s office said.

The sheriff announced the arrest via Twitter and said it would release more information in a press release Monday.

"There is more to the story that can not be released yet," the office said in a Twitter post Saturday.

Lots of reactions to the arrest. There is more to the story that can not be released yet. You may reserve your judgement until facts are out — Mason County Sheriff (@MasonCoSheriff) April 1, 2017

The homeowner said he arrived at the home, one of at least two that he owns in the Belfair, Washington area, at around 8 a.m. and noticed that a door had been kicked in, according to police.

The homeowner went inside and exchanged words with Rosa, who was in the shower, at the time, police said. The homeowner left the premises, without calling the police, and returned with a firearm, police said.

"He returned home, retrieved a firearm, came back over to the residence and fired multiple rounds into the shower ... killing the intruder," Mason County Sheriff's Lt. Travis Adams told ABC affiliate KOMO.

Update: Homeowner has been arrested for Murder 2. Intruder was shot multiple times while in the shower. pic.twitter.com/1cPLo3PDEb — Mason County Sheriff (@MasonCoSheriff) April 1, 2017

The homeowner called 911 and said that he had shot and killed an intruder, Adams told KOMO.

It’s not clear how long the victim had been inside the property, but police said the homeowner had enough time to call for help before firing shots.

"Certainly he had an opportunity to call law enforcement at that time," Adams said. "And we’ve contacted our local prosecutor, explained the circumstances to him, and he agrees that second-degree murder was an appropriate charge in this case."