Yorkshire Ripper questioned over 17 unsolved crimes - including hammer attack on 14-year-old girl
Yorkshire Ripper questioned over 17 unsolved crimes - including hammer attack on 14-year-old girl
orkshire Ripper Peter Sutcliffe has been questioned over 17 more unsolved crimes, including a hammer attack on a 14-year-old girl, it has emerged. The attacks, which are all on women who survived, are thought to bear striking similarities to the crimes perpetrated by the 70-year-old serial killer, dubbed the Yorkshire Ripper, before he was jailed in 1981. Police visited Sutcliffe in HMP Frankland, the category A prison the killer is being housed in , to discuss the historic crimes, the Sun reported. The crimes are said to have similarities with the serial killer's spree of attacks in the 1970s that saw him wield hammers, screw drivers and knives. he cases are thought to include that of Tracy Browne who, at just 14, was hit a number of times with a hammer in Silsden, West Yorks, in August 1975. Browne believes she survived because her attacker was disturbed by a car's headlights in a country lane. Sutcliffe was said to have admitted the attack to a police officer, but officials ruled a prosecution was not in the public interest. Detectives are also thought to be looking at the case of Gloria Wood, who was struck with a claw hammer on a school playing field in Bradford in 1974. Gloria, 28 at the time, gave a description of her attacker - who struck after he had offered to carry her bags - which bears a resemblance to the Ripper. A source told the Sun : "Two plain clothes officers arranged to see Sutcliffe in jail. He was pretty taken aback. "He did agree to go through all of them in detail and said something might jog his memory which seemed to suggest he might admit one or two." orry driver Sutcliffe was jailed in 1981 for 13 murders and seven attempted murders between 1976 and 1981. Most of his victims were prostitutes who were mutilated and beaten to death. e was given 20 life terms for the murders and was caught when police found him with a prostitute in his car. They became suspicious and found he had a fake licence plate and weapons including a screwdriver and hammer in the boot. The officers from West Yorkshire Police intend to make a return visit to Sutcliffe later this month over the assaults they suspect he committed, the Sun reported. Last April it was revealed Sutcliffe could be charged with more offences after detectives confirmed they were investigating a string of unsolved attacks on women dating back more than 30-years. They have even taken DNA samples from women who they believe could have been attacked by Sutcliffe before he was arrested in 1981. A government report written by former Chief Inspector Sir Lawrence Byford in the wake of Sutcliffe’s conviction concluded that he could have been responsible for many more attacks, not just across Yorkshire but also in other parts of the country. It is that report which is now understood to be forming the basis for the cold case review West Yorkshire Police are currently undertaking. A spokesman for West Yorkshire Police said the force would not name anyone in a current investigation.

Yorkshire Ripper Peter Sutcliffe has been questioned over 17 more unsolved crimes, including a hammer attack on a 14-year-old girl, it has emerged.

The attacks, which are all on women who survived, are thought to bear striking similarities to the crimes perpetrated by the 70-year-old serial killer, dubbed the Yorkshire Ripper, before he was jailed in 1981.

Police visited Sutcliffe in HMP Frankland, the category A prison the killer is being housed in, to discuss the historic crimes, the Sun reported.

The crimes are said to have similarities with the serial killer's spree of attacks in the 1970s that saw him wield hammers, screw drivers and knives.