A Wedding Invitation With The Swachh Bharat Logo Leaves PM Narendra Modi Impressed
A Wedding Invitation With The Swachh Bharat Logo Leaves PM Narendra Modi Impressed
A Wedding Invitation With The Swachh Bharat Logo Leaves PM Narendra Modi Impressed After the iPhone marriage card, the latest one to hit the internet has a Swachh Bharat logo on it. Akash Jain, an entrepreneur, took to micro-blogging platform Twitter and tweeted a photo of a marriage card with Swachh Bharat logo printed on it. “My father and I have been highly inspired by the Swachh Bharat initiative by PM Modi. My father specifically wanted the Swachh Bharat’s message and logo to be there on the wedding invitation card of my sister’s marriage on April 29, 2017. Hence I got it done,” wrote Jain. Dear @narendramodi , My dad specifically wanted @swachhbharat logo to be there on my sister's wedding invitation, hence got it. @PMOIndia  pic.twitter.com/kD28savm82 Taking many by surprise, the brains behind the Swachh Bharat campaign Prime Minister Narendra Modi retweeted the tweet and followed Akash Jain as well. This is not the first time when common people have done their bit in promoting the Swachh Bharat campaign. In the past, M Mariswami, based in Hubballi, took the Swachh Bharat campaign a little further by printing his wedding card with a 4-page text on the importance of constructing toilets in house. The Swachh Bharat Mission was launched on October 2, 2014 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Making India clean would be the best tribute to Gandhi on his 150th birth anniversary in 2019, said Modi while launching the campaign across the country.

After the iPhone marriage card, the latest one to hit the internet has a Swachh Bharat logo on it.

Akash Jain, an entrepreneur, took to micro-blogging platform Twitter and tweeted a photo of a marriage card with Swachh Bharat logo printed on it.

“My father and I have been highly inspired by the Swachh Bharat initiative by PM Modi. My father specifically wanted the Swachh Bharat’s message and logo to be there on the wedding invitation card of my sister’s marriage on April 29, 2017. Hence I got it done,” wrote Jain.

Dear @narendramodi, My dad specifically wanted @swachhbharat logo to be there on my sister's wedding invitation, hence got it. @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/kD28savm82 — Akash Jain (@akash207) April 1, 2017

Taking many by surprise, the brains behind the Swachh Bharat campaign Prime Minister Narendra Modi retweeted the tweet and followed Akash Jain as well.

This is not the first time when common people have done their bit in promoting the Swachh Bharat campaign. In the past, M Mariswami, based in Hubballi, took the Swachh Bharat campaign a little further by printing his wedding card with a 4-page text on the importance of constructing toilets in house.

The Swachh Bharat Mission was launched on October 2, 2014 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

Making India clean would be the best tribute to Gandhi on his 150th birth anniversary in 2019, said Modi while launching the campaign across the country.