Croydon 'hate crime': Police release images of three suspects after brutal attack on teen refugee
Croydon 'hate crime': Police release images of three suspects after brutal attack on teen refugee
Detectives investigating a suspected hate crime that left a teenage asylum seeker fighting for his life have released the images of three people they wish identify and question. The two men and a woman are being sought in connection with the attack on a 17-year-old Kurdish Iranian who was attacked at a bus stop in Croydon , south east London. Eight people are being held on suspicion of attempted murder following a series of arrests over the weekend. The Metropolitan Police said they know “approximately 20” were involved the incident that left the boy with a fractured skull and a blood clot on his brain. On Monday police renewed their appeal for witnesses and information as the victim remained in hospital in a serious but stable condition. Detective Inspector Gary Castle, from Croydon CID, said: “Whilst arrests have been made, we now know that a large number of people, approximately 20, were involved in the attack on the victim. “A number of them approached the victim as he waited at a bus stop with two friends outside The Goat public house in the Shrublands. “It is understood that the suspects asked the victim where he was from and when they established that he was an asylum seeker they chased him and launched a brutal attack. He sustained serious head and facial injuries as a result of this attack, which included repeated blows to the head by a large group of attackers. “A number of people came to the aid of the victim as he lay unconscious and injured following the assault. “Two friends of the victim managed to escape the attackers and suffered only minor injuries. There are no other reported injuries. “If you can help identify any of these people please call my team without delay.” Neighbours claimed up to 20 people watched while the teenager was kicked and beaten on the ground. One resident of Shrublands Avenue told the Press Association: “There were more than eight people, there was a massive group coming up from The Goat pub. “You couldn't see who was hitting who. “There was one person, the one who ended up in hospital, he was getting absolutely beaten up - kicked, mostly in the facial area. He was getting kicked and punched by everyone. “There was a group of roughly 10 people that was kicking and punching him, and the rest, another 10 or 20, were all just around watching. “Then when they heard sirens they started to go. People that were there, witnesses, because they couldn't do anything against a group of 30 people, they had to wait until they moved off and that's when they managed to help him. Read more Teenage girl arrested in connection with Croydon 'hate crime' attack Six arrested after 'brutal hate crime' beating in Croydon Boy brutally beaten by gang 'after revealing he is a refugee' “That's eventually when the ambulance and police (arrived), and that was it.” The attack has drawn widespread condemnation, with Tory minister Gavin Barwell describing the attackers as “scum”. Mr Barwell, Croydon Central's MP, said: “It's an appalling crime and I hope the people responsible are caught quickly and receive the full force of British justice.” London mayor Sadiq Khan also condemned the attack, saying hate crime “has no place in London, Britain or anywhere else”, while the Refugee Council said it was “disgusted” by the assault. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn also denounced it, saying: “Absolutely shocked at attack on young Kurdish asylum seeker, who came here searching for safety. I fervently hope he makes a full recovery.” Scotland Yard said a 23-year-old man was arrested in Croydon on Sunday on suspicion of attempted murder, while a 26-year-old man and 17-year-old girl were detained on suspicion of attempted murder and violent disorder. Five other people are still being questioned by detectives while a sixth, a woman aged 20, was released without charge. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     2 April 2017   Sunrise over Plungar in Leicestershire   Neil Squires/PA Wire     1 April 2017   Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London   Ben Stevens/PA Wire     29 March 2017   Anti-Brexit protesters, one wearing a giant Theresa May head, hold placards outside Parliament on the day the Prime Minister will announce that she has triggered the process by which Britain will leave the European Union   Reuters     29 March 2017   Faith Leaders head up a vigil including members of the public and police officers on Westminster Bridge exactly one week after the attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   Police officers holds roses on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   Members of Ahmadiyya Muslim Association pay their respects in Parliament Square, London,  exactly a week since the Westminster terror attack took place   PA wire     29 March 2017   People attend a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   A police badge topped with a white rose is placed during a vigil on Westminster Bridge in London   PA wire     29 March 2017   A police officer holding a flower stands in front of Muslim girls holding placards as they join people on Westminster Bridge during an event to remember the victims of the Westminster attack   Reuters     29 March 2017   People wearing #IAMAMUSLIM t-shirts hold a banner reading 'Love for all, hatred for none' on Westminster Bridge as they attend a vigil   Getty Images     29 March 2017   A Police officer holds a white rose on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   British ambassador to the EU, Sir Tim Barrow leaves after delivering the official notice under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to European Council President Donald Tusk in Brussels, Belgium   EPA     29 March 2017   EU Council President Donald Tusk holds British Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit letter which was delivered by Britain's permanent representative to the European Union Sir Tim Barrow in Brussels, Belgium, as part of the process that starts the formal proceedings of United Kingdom leaving the European Union   EPA     28 March 2017   Claire Blackman,wife of Alexander Blackman,celebrates outside the High Court, after Sergeant Blackman's appeal was successful. The court heard that will be free within 2 weeks   Rex     28 March 2017   Supporters of jailed former British soldier Alexander Blackman, Marine A, arrive at The Royal Courts of Justice in London, to attend the result of his sentence   Getty Images     27 March 2017   A Tate Britain staff member poses for photographers underneath "Forms in Space...by Light (in Time)" a light installation by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans, during a photo call in the Duveen Galleries at Tate Britain gallery in London   AP     27 March 2017   The recently redeveloped National Army Museum   Getty Images     27 March 2017   The National Army Museum in London   Getty Images     27 March 2017   Police walk past floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terrorist attack outside the Palace of Westminster, London   PA wire     26 March 2017   Floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terror attack are seen in Parliament Square in central London   Getty Images     26 March 2017   A aerial view of Derwentwater near Keswick in the Lake District, Cumbria, with snow capped mountains in the foreground and background, as the warm weather continues for many in the UK   PA wire     24 March 2017   British Conservative Party politician Tobias Ellwood (C), who gave first aid to the fatally wounded police officer Keith Palmer, one of the casualties of the March 22 London terror attack, shakes hands with an armed police officer as he arrives at the Houses of Parliament in London   Getty Images  The group - three men aged 20, one aged 24 and a 24-year-old woman - are also being held on suspicion of attempted murder and violent disorder. Anyone with information about the attack should call police on 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111. More about: Croydon Hate Crime assault

Detectives investigating a suspected hate crime that left a teenage asylum seeker fighting for his life have released the images of three people they wish identify and question.

The two men and a woman are being sought in connection with the attack on a 17-year-old Kurdish Iranian who was attacked at a bus stop in Croydon, south east London.

Eight people are being held on suspicion of attempted murder following a series of arrests over the weekend.

The Metropolitan Police said they know “approximately 20” were involved the incident that left the boy with a fractured skull and a blood clot on his brain.

On Monday police renewed their appeal for witnesses and information as the victim remained in hospital in a serious but stable condition.

The bus stop near the Goat Pub in Croydon , London, where the assault took place (Neil Hall/Reuters)

Detective Inspector Gary Castle, from Croydon CID, said: “Whilst arrests have been made, we now know that a large number of people, approximately 20, were involved in the attack on the victim.

“A number of them approached the victim as he waited at a bus stop with two friends outside The Goat public house in the Shrublands.

“It is understood that the suspects asked the victim where he was from and when they established that he was an asylum seeker they chased him and launched a brutal attack. He sustained serious head and facial injuries as a result of this attack, which included repeated blows to the head by a large group of attackers.

“A number of people came to the aid of the victim as he lay unconscious and injured following the assault.

“Two friends of the victim managed to escape the attackers and suffered only minor injuries. There are no other reported injuries.

The Goat pub in Croydon

“If you can help identify any of these people please call my team without delay.”

Neighbours claimed up to 20 people watched while the teenager was kicked and beaten on the ground.

One resident of Shrublands Avenue told the Press Association: “There were more than eight people, there was a massive group coming up from The Goat pub.

“You couldn't see who was hitting who.

“There was one person, the one who ended up in hospital, he was getting absolutely beaten up - kicked, mostly in the facial area. He was getting kicked and punched by everyone.

“There was a group of roughly 10 people that was kicking and punching him, and the rest, another 10 or 20, were all just around watching.

“Then when they heard sirens they started to go. People that were there, witnesses, because they couldn't do anything against a group of 30 people, they had to wait until they moved off and that's when they managed to help him.

“That's eventually when the ambulance and police (arrived), and that was it.”

The attack has drawn widespread condemnation, with Tory minister Gavin Barwell describing the attackers as “scum”.

Mr Barwell, Croydon Central's MP, said: “It's an appalling crime and I hope the people responsible are caught quickly and receive the full force of British justice.”

London mayor Sadiq Khan also condemned the attack, saying hate crime “has no place in London, Britain or anywhere else”, while the Refugee Council said it was “disgusted” by the assault.

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn also denounced it, saying: “Absolutely shocked at attack on young Kurdish asylum seeker, who came here searching for safety. I fervently hope he makes a full recovery.”

Scotland Yard said a 23-year-old man was arrested in Croydon on Sunday on suspicion of attempted murder, while a 26-year-old man and 17-year-old girl were detained on suspicion of attempted murder and violent disorder.

Five other people are still being questioned by detectives while a sixth, a woman aged 20, was released without charge.

UK news in pictures







26 show all UK news in pictures

















































1/26 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

2/26 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

3/26 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

4/26 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

5/26 2 April 2017 Sunrise over Plungar in Leicestershire Neil Squires/PA Wire

6/26 1 April 2017 Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London Ben Stevens/PA Wire

7/26 29 March 2017 Anti-Brexit protesters, one wearing a giant Theresa May head, hold placards outside Parliament on the day the Prime Minister will announce that she has triggered the process by which Britain will leave the European Union Reuters

8/26 29 March 2017 Faith Leaders head up a vigil including members of the public and police officers on Westminster Bridge exactly one week after the attack Getty Images

9/26 29 March 2017 Police officers holds roses on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

10/26 29 March 2017 Members of Ahmadiyya Muslim Association pay their respects in Parliament Square, London, exactly a week since the Westminster terror attack took place PA wire

11/26 29 March 2017 People attend a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

12/26 29 March 2017 A police badge topped with a white rose is placed during a vigil on Westminster Bridge in London PA wire

13/26 29 March 2017 A police officer holding a flower stands in front of Muslim girls holding placards as they join people on Westminster Bridge during an event to remember the victims of the Westminster attack Reuters

14/26 29 March 2017 People wearing #IAMAMUSLIM t-shirts hold a banner reading 'Love for all, hatred for none' on Westminster Bridge as they attend a vigil Getty Images

15/26 29 March 2017 A Police officer holds a white rose on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

16/26 29 March 2017 British ambassador to the EU, Sir Tim Barrow leaves after delivering the official notice under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to European Council President Donald Tusk in Brussels, Belgium EPA

17/26 29 March 2017 EU Council President Donald Tusk holds British Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit letter which was delivered by Britain's permanent representative to the European Union Sir Tim Barrow in Brussels, Belgium, as part of the process that starts the formal proceedings of United Kingdom leaving the European Union EPA

18/26 28 March 2017 Claire Blackman,wife of Alexander Blackman,celebrates outside the High Court, after Sergeant Blackman's appeal was successful. The court heard that will be free within 2 weeks Rex

19/26 28 March 2017 Supporters of jailed former British soldier Alexander Blackman, Marine A, arrive at The Royal Courts of Justice in London, to attend the result of his sentence Getty Images

20/26 27 March 2017 A Tate Britain staff member poses for photographers underneath "Forms in Space...by Light (in Time)" a light installation by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans, during a photo call in the Duveen Galleries at Tate Britain gallery in London AP

21/26 27 March 2017 The recently redeveloped National Army Museum Getty Images

22/26 27 March 2017 The National Army Museum in London Getty Images

23/26 27 March 2017 Police walk past floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terrorist attack outside the Palace of Westminster, London PA wire

24/26 26 March 2017 Floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terror attack are seen in Parliament Square in central London Getty Images

25/26 26 March 2017 A aerial view of Derwentwater near Keswick in the Lake District, Cumbria, with snow capped mountains in the foreground and background, as the warm weather continues for many in the UK PA wire

26/26 24 March 2017 British Conservative Party politician Tobias Ellwood (C), who gave first aid to the fatally wounded police officer Keith Palmer, one of the casualties of the March 22 London terror attack, shakes hands with an armed police officer as he arrives at the Houses of Parliament in London Getty Images

The group - three men aged 20, one aged 24 and a 24-year-old woman - are also being held on suspicion of attempted murder and violent disorder.

Anyone with information about the attack should call police on 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

Press Association