Gibraltar accuses EU of behaving like a 'cuckolded husband who is taking it out on the children'
Gibraltar accuses EU of behaving like a 'cuckolded husband who is taking it out on the children'
ibraltar has accused the European Union of behaving like a "cuckolded husband who is taking it out on the children" by handing Spain a veto over its future in Brexit negotiations. Fabian Picardo,  the chief minister, made the comments after Spain accused Britain of "losing its temper" over Gibraltar. It came as talk of a "war" between Britain and Spain over the row was dismissed as "absurd". lfonso Dasti, Spain's foreign minister,  said he was "surprised" by Britain's response after the EU’s draft Brexit negotiating guidelines appeared to hand Spain an ­effective veto over whether an eventual deal will apply to Gibraltar. He said: "The Spanish government is a little surprised by the tone of comments coming out of Britain, a country known for its composure." Mr Picardo said: "Gibraltar is not a bargaining chip in these negotiations. Gibraltar belongs to the Gibraltarians and we want to stay British." oris Johnson has insisted this morning that there will be no change to Gibraltar's sovereignty without Britain's consent. Speaking on arrival at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, he said: "The sovereignty of Gibraltar is unchanged and is not going to change, and cannot conceivably change without the express support and consent of the people of Gibraltar and the United Kingdom, and that is not is going to change." It came as Jack Straw, Labour former foreign secretary,  said he did not believe the status of Gibraltar poses a major danger to a Brexit deal and that the suggestion of war "reeks of 19th century jingoism." peaking on Sunday, the former Tory leader Lord Howard said that Theresa May would go to war to defend Gibraltar’s sovereignty. e said that Theresa May would show the “same resolve” over Gibraltar as Margaret Thatcher did over the Falklands. Mr Straw told BBC Radio Four's Today programme: "The idea of Britain going to war, or Spain going to war against Britain, over Gibraltar is frankly absurd and reeks of 19th century jingoism. "I doubt very much that Gibraltar will be the deal breaker." he row continued this morning after senior diplomats warned that the EU will not give way on Gibraltar during the Brexit negotiations. One diplomat told the Guardian: “Spain are taking this very, very seriously. I think there is support across the board among the member states. Why not?". "It is not a problem that was born yesterday. It has been with us a long time and we have always listened to both sides. Now we are going to support the member state. "That is the philosophy behind it. I wouldn’t think any of the 26 other states will somehow try to undermine this clause." his morning Spain’s foreign minister suggested that British politicians are losing their nerve as senior Conservative Party figures suggest that the country could go to war to defend Gibraltar’s status in a post-Brexit environment. “Someone in Britain is losing their nerve but there is no basis for this,” Mr Dastis said on Monday morning when asked by reporters for his view on the escalating war of words over the British overseas territory. sked about Conservative peer Michael Howard’s comments about the Falkland Islands conflict, Mr Dastis said “bringing up past situations like the Malvinas is a somewhat out of context”. n the possible accession of an independent Scotland to the European Union, Mr Dastis claimed his comments quoted by El País on Sunday had been “misinterpreted”. “I don’t think we should be talking about hypotheses. The only certain thing is that when the United Kingdom leaves [the EU], so will Scotland. What happens in the future is something we will see when it happens, if it happens,” Mr Dastis tried to clarify, stressing that Scotland and Catalonia are “in no way comparable”. ir Michael Fallon, the Defence Secretary, said the Government would go "all the way" to protect the interests of "the rock", while Theresa May also pledged her support to Gibraltar's chief minister yesterday. After Mrs May spoke to Mr Picardo on Sunday, a No 10 spokesperson said: "The prime minister said we will never enter into arrangements under which the people of Gibraltar would pass under the sovereignty of another state against their freely and democratically expressed wishes, nor will we ever enter into a process of sovereignty negotiations with which Gibraltar is not content."

Boris Johnson has insisted this morning that there will be no change to Gibraltar's sovereignty without Britain's consent.

Speaking on arrival at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg, he said: "The sovereignty of Gibraltar is unchanged and is not going to change, and cannot conceivably change without the express support and consent of the people of Gibraltar and the United Kingdom, and that is not is going to change."

It came as Jack Straw, Labour former foreign secretary, said he did not believe the status of Gibraltar poses a major danger to a Brexit deal and that the suggestion of war "reeks of 19th century jingoism."