David Moyes will face no action from Sunderland after threat to 'slap' female reporter
David Moyes will face no action from Sunderland after threat to 'slap' female reporter
Sunderland will take no further action over David Moyes' threatening behaviour towards a female journalist. The under-fire Scot was asked by the BBC's Vicki Sparks if the Black Cats' poor run of form might put him under pressure from chairman Ellis Short. But Moyes batted away the enquiry and then fumed at Sparks off-camera, threatening her with violence if she were to repeat her line of questioning. Premier League team of the weekend               Premier League team of the weekend    Wayne Hennessey       Jesus Navas   Navas was forced to fill in at right-back      Jonny Evans       Mamadou Sakho       Andrew Robertson       Lucas Leiva       Wilfred Ndidi       Wilfried Zaha       Philippe Coutinho       Demarai Gray       Christian Benteke    “It was getting a wee bit naughty at the end there so just watch yourself," he snarled. “You still might get a slap even though you’re a woman. Careful the next time you come in.” The BBC confirmed that Moyes had since apologised to Sparks for his choice of language, and Sunderland declared that "the matter was resolved amicably." But despite shadow sports minister Rosena Allin-Khan's calls for FA action and an outcry from fans calling for the 53-year-old's head on Monday morning, The Independent understands that the Wearsiders consider it a closed matter. This is disgraceful. David Moyes cannot get away with these sexist threats - the @FA must take action immediately. pic.twitter.com/kcMSQFmI7g Clare Phillipson, director of the domestic abuse charity Wearside Women in Need, was "stunned" when she watched the exchange on video. She said: "I think the FA have to look into it. "It is for the FA to set a clear standard about what they think is acceptable. "It was dreadful, absolutely appalling. "This is a woman, in a very small minority of sports journalists, trying to go about her job and being threatened. "It's the sort of thing you expect down the local pub, not the kind of thing you get from a professional football manager." The club are rooted to the bottom of the Premier League table, eight points adrift of 17th-place Swansea City, after losing 1-0 to Watford on Saturday. More about: David Moyes Sunderland AFC Comments

Sunderland will take no further action over David Moyes' threatening behaviour towards a female journalist.

The under-fire Scot was asked by the BBC's Vicki Sparks if the Black Cats' poor run of form might put him under pressure from chairman Ellis Short.

But Moyes batted away the enquiry and then fumed at Sparks off-camera, threatening her with violence if she were to repeat her line of questioning.

Premier League team of the weekend







11 show all Premier League team of the weekend



















1/11 Wayne Hennessey

2/11 Jesus Navas Navas was forced to fill in at right-back

3/11 Jonny Evans

4/11 Mamadou Sakho

5/11 Andrew Robertson

6/11 Lucas Leiva

7/11 Wilfred Ndidi

8/11 Wilfried Zaha

9/11 Philippe Coutinho

10/11 Demarai Gray

11/11 Christian Benteke

“It was getting a wee bit naughty at the end there so just watch yourself," he snarled.

“You still might get a slap even though you’re a woman. Careful the next time you come in.”

The BBC confirmed that Moyes had since apologised to Sparks for his choice of language, and Sunderland declared that "the matter was resolved amicably."

But despite shadow sports minister Rosena Allin-Khan's calls for FA action and an outcry from fans calling for the 53-year-old's head on Monday morning, The Independent understands that the Wearsiders consider it a closed matter.

This is disgraceful. David Moyes cannot get away with these sexist threats - the @FA must take action immediately. pic.twitter.com/kcMSQFmI7g — Dr Rosena Allin-Khan (@DrRosena) April 3, 2017

Clare Phillipson, director of the domestic abuse charity Wearside Women in Need, was "stunned" when she watched the exchange on video.

She said: "I think the FA have to look into it.

"It is for the FA to set a clear standard about what they think is acceptable.

"It was dreadful, absolutely appalling.

"This is a woman, in a very small minority of sports journalists, trying to go about her job and being threatened.

"It's the sort of thing you expect down the local pub, not the kind of thing you get from a professional football manager."

The club are rooted to the bottom of the Premier League table, eight points adrift of 17th-place Swansea City, after losing 1-0 to Watford on Saturday.