Can YOU spot the invisible artist?
Can YOU spot the invisible artist?


To solve the latest optical illusion to crop up on the internet you'll need to get in touch with your artistic side.

The puzzle, posted by Playbuzz, features a mysterious artist disguised in the painting, so can you see him?

The artist seems to have disappeared after putting the finishing touches to a portrait - which bears little resemblance to the woman posing for it.

Scroll down for reveal

Can you manage to find the artist hidden within the puzzle? He appears to have disappeared and trying to spot him is no mean feat

If you haven't managed to spot him, look closely and you'll see that something isn't quite right.

He's not standing back and assessing the painting - he's actually in it.

The dark side of her dress is the hat on his head, her dark ringlets are his beard and the pale part of her dress is his face.

There he is! The artist has actually managed to immerse himself inside his portrait of the lady

The arty image comes just days after one of the toughest puzzles yet swept the web.

Instead of asking players to spot a hidden item in the sketch, the detailed puzzle shared on Playbuzz has a total of nine animals lurking in the landscape.

To make things even tougher, the artist has thrown in a smoking man for good measure.

Can you find them? There are nine hidden animals in this picture and one lone smoking man

The nine animals you're looking for are a bull, rooster, fox, parrot, deer, elephant, crocodile, horse and goose.

But can you find them all without cheating?

Extra points go to eagle eyed players who can spot the smoking man too.

Did you spot them? The bull, rooster, fox, parrot, deer, elephant, crocodile, horse, goose and smoking man have been revealed

Another vintage puzzle shared by Playbuzz challenges players to spot the hare hiding in the kitchen.

The retro illustration features a hot-headed chef attempting to prepare a meal, but hiding somewhere among the pots and pans is the pesky hare.

A new puzzle from Playbuzz is challenging users to find the hare hidden in this kitchen

With it being such a busy scene it is tricky to spot the animal cleverly disguised in the kitchen.

However, patient players may be able to spot the hare disguised in the steam coming from the pan - but did you find him?

If not, see the reveal below.

Patient players may be able to spot the hare disguised in the steam coming from the pan - but did you find him

Last week the web was left baffled while trying to find a seven-spotted dice in another tricky puzzle.

This head-scratching brain teaser features dozens of dice, but only one with seven spots, and netizens were driven dotty while trying to find it.

The puzzle was created by gaming company Casumo, and features just one crooked dice traditionally used for cheating.

However, there is no way to cheat in this puzzle and only those with great patience will be able to spot the odd dice out in the sea of spots.

Those willing to scour the image should be able to spot the seven spotted cube in the bottom left hand corner - so did you spot it?

The latest brainteaser to leave the web feeling puzzled is challenging users to spot the seven spotted dice in this image