It’s Official: Millennial Drivers Are the Most Reckless Behind the Wheel
It’s Official: Millennial Drivers Are the Most Reckless Behind the Wheel
Millennials are known for many things — their obsession with social media, their propensity for taking selfies — and yes, even their poor driving skills. In fact, a new study by the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety found that millennials are the worst-behaved drivers in the United States. Of the 2,511 licensed drivers over the age of 16 surveyed, a shockingly high 88 percent of millennials committed at least one risky behavior while behind the wheel in the past 30 days, according to the report . Some of these actions included speeding, disobeying traffic laws, and texting behind the wheel. A lower 67.3 percent of drivers ages 60-74 admitted to the same behaviors. “Alarmingly, some of the drivers ages 19-24 believe that their dangerous driving behavior is acceptable,” Dr. David Yang, the executive director of the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety, said in a press release . “It’s critical that these drivers understand the potentially deadly consequences of engaging in these types of behaviors and that they change their behavior and attitudes in order to reverse the growing number of fatalities on U.S. roads.” The National Safety Council recently found that there were 40,200 motor-vehicle deaths in 2016 , a 6 percent increase from 2015 — illustrating that risks on the road are more alarming than ever. After the deadliest year on U.S. roads since 2007, education regarding safe driving practices is essential. How Emma Watson Made Belle From ‘Beauty and the Beast’ a Modern Style Icon Lisa Kudrow Embraces Her Age: ‘Older Women Have a Lot to Say’ Cate Blanchett Dresses Daughter in Boys’ Clothes for the Best Reason

Millennials are known for many things — their obsession with social media, their propensity for taking selfies — and yes, even their poor driving skills. In fact, a new study by the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety found that millennials are the worst-behaved drivers in the United States.

Of the 2,511 licensed drivers over the age of 16 surveyed, a shockingly high 88 percent of millennials committed at least one risky behavior while behind the wheel in the past 30 days, according to the report. Some of these actions included speeding, disobeying traffic laws, and texting behind the wheel. A lower 67.3 percent of drivers ages 60-74 admitted to the same behaviors.

“Alarmingly, some of the drivers ages 19-24 believe that their dangerous driving behavior is acceptable,” Dr. David Yang, the executive director of the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety, said in a press release. “It’s critical that these drivers understand the potentially deadly consequences of engaging in these types of behaviors and that they change their behavior and attitudes in order to reverse the growing number of fatalities on U.S. roads.”

The National Safety Council recently found that there were 40,200 motor-vehicle deaths in 2016, a 6 percent increase from 2015 — illustrating that risks on the road are more alarming than ever. After the deadliest year on U.S. roads since 2007, education regarding safe driving practices is essential.

Read more from Yahoo Style + Beauty:

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day. For Twitter updates, follow @YahooStyle and@YahooBeauty.



