Somali pirates hijack Indian commercial ship
Somali pirates hijack Indian commercial ship


Pirates have seized a small boat and kidnapped its 11 Indian crew members off the coast of Somalia, an investigator said Monday, the latest vessel targeted by the region's resurgent hijackers.

The attack on the small ship happened Saturday as the vessel passed through the narrow channel between Yemen's Socotra island and the Somali coast, said Graeme Gibbon Brooks, the CEO of the maritime firm Dryad Maritime.

The pirates are taking the vessel to the Eyl area of northern Somalia, he said.

The small dhow, a traditional wooden ship common in regional waters, initially was heading from Dubai to Bosaso, Somalia, he said.

Pirates seized a small boat and kidnapped its 11 Indian crew members off the coast of Somalia on Saturday. They're taking the vessel to Eyl, in Somalia's semiautonomous northeastern state of Puntland (pictured above)

United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO), which coordinates the management of all merchant ships and yachts in the Gulf of Aden area, said it had received information that a dhow en route to Bosasso from Dubai had been hijacked 'in the vicinity of Socotra (Island)'.

A spokesman said UKMTO was unable to confirm the location of the vessel, which he identified as Al Kausar, or what had taken place, and that investigations were ongoing.

'We understand Somali pirates hijacked a commercial Indian ship and (it is heading) towards Somalia shores,' Abdirizak Mohamed Dirir, a former director of the anti-piracy agency in Somalia's semi-autonomous Puntland region, said.

Somali pirates hijacked of the Comoros-flagged oil tanker Aris 13 last month, the first commandeering of a vessel since 2012.

Somali pirates hijacked of an oil tanker last month, the first commandeering of a vessel since 2012, but released it after a fight with the Puntland marine force (file photo of a Somali pirate)

They later released the vessel and its Sri Lankan crew after a fight with the Puntland marine force.

Pirates in late March also seized a fishing trawler.

Somalis have been angered recently by foreign fishermen flooding into their waters, some of whom have been given licences to fish there by the Somali government.

India's ministry of external affairs told Reuters it could not confirm the hijack but some local Indian media reported the ship was called Al Kaushar.

In a separate incident that highlights increased pirate activity, UKMTO said on its website that early on Monday, six skiffs had approached a vessel it did not identify and that ladders and hooks were sighted.

The vessel raised alarm, prompting armed guards to take position and the skiffs left, leaving the vessel unharmed, UKTMO said.