Brooklyn Beckham got his first tattoo and the internet has a lot of questions
Brooklyn Beckham got his first tattoo and the internet has a lot of questions
Brooklyn Beckham got his first tattoo over the weekend and the internet has a lot to say about it. SEE ALSO: Brooklyn Beckham scores a Vogue cover, Victoria is super proud The 18-year-old — who's the eldest child of Victoria and David Beckham — posted a series of Instagram snaps of the work-in-progress on his forearm as he was being tattooed by his dad's friend, tattoo artist Mark Mahoney. But not everyone was enamoured with Beckham's choice of design, which appears to be a detailed portrait of a Native American figure wearing a feathered headdress. His choice of design appears to be an homage to his dad, who has a similar tattoo on his torso. "Just like dads," wrote Beckham in one Instagram post. While some commenters appeared to really like the tattoo, others thought the tattoo design might be an act of cultural appropriation. "Are you Native American or do you have Native American blood? I had no idea. If not then this tattoo is cultural appropriation, super offensive and just wrong," wrote one commenter. "Because he is not Native American and it's incredibly offensive and just NAGL for someone who comes from colonial British lineage to be getting a tattoo of a chief in a war bonnet," wrote another. Many people had questions for Beckham. "Why Native American??" queried one follower. "Cultural appropriation?" asked another. "What's the meaning. Is anyone from your family Native American I assume not you are a English wtf," another follower asked. "Y on earth would u get a Native American tattoo when ... you're not even ... nvm," commented one confused follower. Others weren't sure what to think about the tattoo. "Not sure how I feel about this," said one person. Beckham hasn't yet responded to commenters' concerns over cultural appropriation. WATCH: Marc Jacobs' reply to dreadlock haters just fuels the fire

Brooklyn Beckham got his first tattoo over the weekend and the internet has a lot to say about it.

SEE ALSO: Brooklyn Beckham scores a Vogue cover, Victoria is super proud

The 18-year-old — who's the eldest child of Victoria and David Beckham — posted a series of Instagram snaps of the work-in-progress on his forearm as he was being tattooed by his dad's friend, tattoo artist Mark Mahoney.

But not everyone was enamoured with Beckham's choice of design, which appears to be a detailed portrait of a Native American figure wearing a feathered headdress.

His choice of design appears to be an homage to his dad, who has a similar tattoo on his torso. "Just like dads," wrote Beckham in one Instagram post.

While some commenters appeared to really like the tattoo, others thought the tattoo design might be an act of cultural appropriation.

"Are you Native American or do you have Native American blood? I had no idea. If not then this tattoo is cultural appropriation, super offensive and just wrong," wrote one commenter.

"Because he is not Native American and it's incredibly offensive and just NAGL for someone who comes from colonial British lineage to be getting a tattoo of a chief in a war bonnet," wrote another.

Many people had questions for Beckham. "Why Native American??" queried one follower. "Cultural appropriation?" asked another. "What's the meaning. Is anyone from your family Native American I assume not you are a English wtf," another follower asked.

"Y on earth would u get a Native American tattoo when ... you're not even ... nvm," commented one confused follower.

Others weren't sure what to think about the tattoo. "Not sure how I feel about this," said one person.

Beckham hasn't yet responded to commenters' concerns over cultural appropriation.

WATCH: Marc Jacobs' reply to dreadlock haters just fuels the fire