Inside North Korea: fascinating images of the world's most secretive state
Inside North Korea: fascinating images of the world's most secretive state
Inside North Korea: fascinating images of the world's most secretive state                     Mark Edward Harris has visited North Korea a remarkable 10 times and has seen many changes to the country since his first trip, largely positive. "In spite of the economic weight of international embargos, the once barren streets are now full of cars, including taxis, in Pyongyang," he said. "Economic growth seems to be slowly trickling out to cities and towns beyond the capital." Here he chooses 17 of his favourite images taken during his time in North Korea. Harris's latest book, "North Korea," was named Photography Book of the Year at the International Photography Awards. His other books include "South Korea," "Inside Iran," "Wanderlust," and "The Way of the Japanese Bath." See www.MarkEdwardHarris.com The Joint Security Area (JSA) in 2014, as seen from the North Korean side at Panmunjeom, looking across the Military Demarcation Line (MDL) to the South Korean side. In 1997 I was one of those visitors gazing across the no man's land that divides North and South Korea. In 2005 I finally made it to the other side. The only way visitors can visit both is through China or Russia. One cannot simply cross the line. Booze, Beatles and barbecued dog: What it's really like to visit North Korea

Mark Edward Harris has visited North Korea a remarkable 10 times and has seen many changes to the country since his first trip, largely positive. "In spite of the economic weight of international embargos, the once barren streets are now full of cars, including taxis, in Pyongyang," he said. "Economic growth seems to be slowly trickling out to cities and towns beyond the capital."

Here he chooses 17 of his favourite images taken during his time in North Korea. Harris's latest book, "North Korea," was named Photography Book of the Year at the International Photography Awards. His other books include "South Korea," "Inside Iran," "Wanderlust," and "The Way of the Japanese Bath." See www.MarkEdwardHarris.com

The Joint Security Area (JSA) in 2014, as seen from the North Korean side at Panmunjeom, looking across the Military Demarcation Line (MDL) to the South Korean side. In 1997 I was one of those visitors gazing across the no man's land that divides North and South Korea. In 2005 I finally made it to the other side. The only way visitors can visit both is through China or Russia. One cannot simply cross the line.

Booze, Beatles and barbecued dog: What it's really like to visit North Korea