Indian IT professionals face new challenges as Singapore shuts door
Indian IT professionals face new challenges as Singapore shuts door
India’s IT professionals are going through tough times. Amid layoffs and poor appraisals , they're facing a new trouble: overseas doors are quickly closing. SEE ALSO: Pune, India: The World's Next Great Tech City? Singapore has slowed down on issuing new visas to Indian professionals, reports  . The move is apparently an attempt by the Singapore government to foster the hiring of local talent. This also enforces new challenges to major software firms including Infosys, TCS, and Wipro, in India, who have offices in Singapore. "This (visa problem) has been lingering for a while but since early-2016, visas are down to a trickle. All Indian companies have received communication on fair consideration, which basically means hiring local people," Nasscom president R Chandrashekhar told the paper. Additionally, the authorities in Singapore have imposed several conditions to make it difficult for companies to hire people from India, a report from adds. India’s $108 billion outsourcing firms are already rethinking their hiring practices amid U.S. President Donald Trump’s campaign promises to tighten the H-1B program. As we previously noted, the U.S. issued 85,000 H1-B visas worldwide last year, of which 70 percent went to Indians. WATCH: Idealist Matches Non-Profits With Job Candidates and Resources

India’s IT professionals are going through tough times.

Amid layoffs and poor appraisals, they're facing a new trouble: overseas doors are quickly closing.

Singapore has slowed down on issuing new visas to Indian professionals, reports Times of India. The move is apparently an attempt by the Singapore government to foster the hiring of local talent.

This also enforces new challenges to major software firms including Infosys, TCS, and Wipro, in India, who have offices in Singapore.

"This (visa problem) has been lingering for a while but since early-2016, visas are down to a trickle. All Indian companies have received communication on fair consideration, which basically means hiring local people," Nasscom president R Chandrashekhar told the paper.

Additionally, the authorities in Singapore have imposed several conditions to make it difficult for companies to hire people from India, a report from Hindustan Times adds.

India’s $108 billion outsourcing firms are already rethinking their hiring practices amid U.S. President Donald Trump’s campaign promises to tighten the H-1B program.

As we previously noted, the U.S. issued 85,000 H1-B visas worldwide last year, of which 70 percent went to Indians.