‘The President is merely decorative, anyway’: Shirley Povich on Opening Day first pitches

No one man is bigger than the game, we’ve been told since infancy, and that goes, I guess, for the President of the United States. Anyway, the 1953 baseball season will open at Griffith Stadium on Monday as scheduled, despite the decision of Mr. Eisenhower to skip the whole business. The President’s absence from the opening game may be a national calamity, but I doubt it. Maybe Mr. Eisenhower was agreeing with me when he checked out of his Griffith Stadium date and decided to play golf instead. Its effect on the State of the Union figures to be nil.   If the man-on-the-street polls are to be believed, though, Mr. Eisenhower has pulled a real rock. The fans resent his runout as un-American; at least un-Presidential. Going to the opening game is simply the thing to do, and anyway, only the lucky stiffs get tickets, particularly a private box. Nobody asked me how I felt about it. I was hanging around sort of waiting to be asked, but the pollsters passed me up in their zest to take soundings from the barber, the bootblack, the cab driver and newsboy. They shunned me like a bad security risk, which I would have been, perhaps, on second thought. Anyway, I took my own poll. It wasn’t what you would call comprehensive; in fact, I interviewed only one person. But from him I got an answer that all of a sudden seemed to me to wrap up the whole situation nicely. It was a neatly phrased question I submitted, I thought, to my man on the street. “President Eisenhower is not going to the opening ball game; what do you think about it?” I said. “So? Who needs him?” That’s all he said. At first it sounded like he should have said more, but the more you mulled it, darned if it wasn’t a truly complete answer. Who needs him, indeed? I hadn’t thought of it in that light before. I’m trying to figure out now, who does need. As President, sure, he’s needed. Out there at Griffith Stadium Monday, I’m not sure he’s needed. They’ll get along somehow. Somebody will come up with a baseball, plus the national anthem; the Yankees and Nats can be depended on to show up, and they’ll have a ball game regardless.   The importance of the President of the United States at a ballgame is overrated, anyway. Exactly, as nobody pays his way into the park to see the umpires, no matter what the umpires’ esteem for themselves may be; nobody pays his way into a park to see the President, either. He goes to see a ball game, and if the President gets the same idea on the same day, well, nothing can be done about it. There wasn’t a single turnback of a ticket to the opener following disclosure that the President wouldn’t attend. In fact, the demand for seats has been even greater. Not because of the President’s absence, however. It would be unfair to suggest any such thing. It’s merely the same increased demand for tickets that always marks the week before the game. So, President Eisenhower can go down to Augusta and play his beloved golf without any compunctions about deflating the 1953 opener. The ceremonies won’t be quite the same without the President, but they’ll get along all right, and once the game starts the people will have eyes only for the athletes, anyway. At these openers, the President is merely decorative, anyway. It would be nicer, of course, if the President were there. A lot of people are pushovers for such sentimental expressions as Our Great National Game, and it was sort of customary for the President to throw out the first ball. Certainly there was nothing harmful in that sort of thing, and it made for interesting pictures in the papers and was surefire on the newsreels. It always gave baseball something special to brag about, too. Only baseball could claim a special sort of privilege at the White House. The President never threw out the first heifer at a cattle show, or squirted the first water pistol at a Legion convention, or cosigned the first note at a bankers’ clambake. Baseball used to have an exclusive on him.   For baseball, the last measure of hurt comes not from Mr. Eisenhower’s decision to bypass the opener, but from his preference for golf on that day. Golf isn’t even a game of the people. It’s for zealots only. The King of Scotland once outlawed it as a threat to his nation’s security. His yeomanry wasn’t getting in enough practice with their bows and arrows. Now we know just how insidious a game it is. Golf, indeed, on a day when you have tickets to the opener. President Eisenhower’s decision to make himself available for the opening pitch at Griffith Stadium on Tuesday could be a manifestation of his new political savvy. A year ago, he announced he would forego the opener in favor of playing some golf. The Republicans almost lost control of Congress. The opening game in Washington is a must for the President. He is supposed to check in, unless there is a war on. Mr. Eisenhower’s brush-off of the opener last year produced something of a public pout. A one-man sample of public opinion fetched the comment, “Who needs him?” … Mr. Eisenhower made no mistakes this time. At the first asking, he told Clark Griffith he’d be there. A few hours later, when he made a chummy talk to the people on a national hook-up stressing vigilance as against fear in this atomic age, it was acclaimed as one of his finest speeches. He had a friendly audience. Paradoxically, Mr. Eisenhower is the most-fan among all the Presidents who have tossed out the opening ball. Before the golf bug bit him deeply, he was so baseball-minded his friends were of the belief he stepped up the war’s mop-up in Europe so he could get to see another ball game. He beat it from the victory parade to the ball yard. The participation of the President in the opening-game ceremonies has helped to label baseball as the national game, and so importantly is it viewed that the American League in alternate years gives the Washington club an advance opening. That is to insure the President’s presence and the White House blessings on the game at the start of the season, rather than later in the week after the Nats have opened on the road. Baseball is the only industry to command such Presidential blessings annually. It’s a command performance, in reverse. The White House lends its dignity to no other private enterprise. The President, for instance, may send a word of greeting to the annual convention of the Master Plumbers, but he has yet to throw out the first plumber.

Last week’s drama over President Trump and his potential ceremonial first pitch at the Nationals’ opener was short-lived. The White House said Trump would not be making an appearance (citing a scheduling conflict); a few outlets wrote misleading headlines; and the world moved on. Monday’s first pitch(es) will instead be thrown out by representatives of each of the military’s five branches, and I can’t imagine there’s anyone unhappy about that.

Still, the episode prompted one reader (guy by the name of George — George Solomon) to point out a previous episode, 64 years ago, when a president skipping Opening Day prompted real emotions. Take it away, Shirley Povich. This column ran in the papers of Monday, April 6, 1953, and it’s a beauty.

No one man is bigger than the game, we’ve been told since infancy, and that goes, I guess, for the President of the United States. Anyway, the 1953 baseball season will open at Griffith Stadium on Monday as scheduled, despite the decision of Mr. Eisenhower to skip the whole business.

The President’s absence from the opening game may be a national calamity, but I doubt it. Maybe Mr. Eisenhower was agreeing with me when he checked out of his Griffith Stadium date and decided to play golf instead. Its effect on the State of the Union figures to be nil.

[2015 Bryce Harper or 2016 Bryce Harper? Best and worst case scenarios for 2017 Nationals.]

If the man-on-the-street polls are to be believed, though, Mr. Eisenhower has pulled a real rock. The fans resent his runout as un-American; at least un-Presidential. Going to the opening game is simply the thing to do, and anyway, only the lucky stiffs get tickets, particularly a private box.

Nobody asked me how I felt about it. I was hanging around sort of waiting to be asked, but the pollsters passed me up in their zest to take soundings from the barber, the bootblack, the cab driver and newsboy. They shunned me like a bad security risk, which I would have been, perhaps, on second thought.

Anyway, I took my own poll. It wasn’t what you would call comprehensive; in fact, I interviewed only one person. But from him I got an answer that all of a sudden seemed to me to wrap up the whole situation nicely.

It was a neatly phrased question I submitted, I thought, to my man on the street. “President Eisenhower is not going to the opening ball game; what do you think about it?” I said.

“So? Who needs him?” That’s all he said. At first it sounded like he should have said more, but the more you mulled it, darned if it wasn’t a truly complete answer. Who needs him, indeed? I hadn’t thought of it in that light before.

I’m trying to figure out now, who does need. As President, sure, he’s needed. Out there at Griffith Stadium Monday, I’m not sure he’s needed. They’ll get along somehow. Somebody will come up with a baseball, plus the national anthem; the Yankees and Nats can be depended on to show up, and they’ll have a ball game regardless.

[Going to the game? Your guide to Opening Day at Nats Park]

The importance of the President of the United States at a ballgame is overrated, anyway. Exactly, as nobody pays his way into the park to see the umpires, no matter what the umpires’ esteem for themselves may be; nobody pays his way into a park to see the President, either. He goes to see a ball game, and if the President gets the same idea on the same day, well, nothing can be done about it.

There wasn’t a single turnback of a ticket to the opener following disclosure that the President wouldn’t attend. In fact, the demand for seats has been even greater. Not because of the President’s absence, however. It would be unfair to suggest any such thing. It’s merely the same increased demand for tickets that always marks the week before the game.

So, President Eisenhower can go down to Augusta and play his beloved golf without any compunctions about deflating the 1953 opener. The ceremonies won’t be quite the same without the President, but they’ll get along all right, and once the game starts the people will have eyes only for the athletes, anyway. At these openers, the President is merely decorative, anyway.

It would be nicer, of course, if the President were there. A lot of people are pushovers for such sentimental expressions as Our Great National Game, and it was sort of customary for the President to throw out the first ball. Certainly there was nothing harmful in that sort of thing, and it made for interesting pictures in the papers and was surefire on the newsreels.

It always gave baseball something special to brag about, too. Only baseball could claim a special sort of privilege at the White House. The President never threw out the first heifer at a cattle show, or squirted the first water pistol at a Legion convention, or cosigned the first note at a bankers’ clambake. Baseball used to have an exclusive on him.

[Experts pick Nats to defend division crown, Harper MVP]

For baseball, the last measure of hurt comes not from Mr. Eisenhower’s decision to bypass the opener, but from his preference for golf on that day. Golf isn’t even a game of the people. It’s for zealots only. The King of Scotland once outlawed it as a threat to his nation’s security. His yeomanry wasn’t getting in enough practice with their bows and arrows. Now we know just how insidious a game it is. Golf, indeed, on a day when you have tickets to the opener.

So that was that. As it turned out, the 1953 opener was rained out, and Eisenhower threw a first pitch a few days later, on a day The Post ran a cartoon image of the President above its masthead. (Had the opener been delayed again, Eisenhower would have been replaced by “Relief Man Dick Nixon,” as Povich wrote.) But the following year, Eisenhower accepted the offer the first time, and Povich wrote again. Here’s the top:

President Eisenhower’s decision to make himself available for the opening pitch at Griffith Stadium on Tuesday could be a manifestation of his new political savvy. A year ago, he announced he would forego the opener in favor of playing some golf. The Republicans almost lost control of Congress.

The opening game in Washington is a must for the President. He is supposed to check in, unless there is a war on. Mr. Eisenhower’s brush-off of the opener last year produced something of a public pout. A one-man sample of public opinion fetched the comment, “Who needs him?” …

Mr. Eisenhower made no mistakes this time. At the first asking, he told Clark Griffith he’d be there. A few hours later, when he made a chummy talk to the people on a national hook-up stressing vigilance as against fear in this atomic age, it was acclaimed as one of his finest speeches. He had a friendly audience.

Paradoxically, Mr. Eisenhower is the most-fan among all the Presidents who have tossed out the opening ball. Before the golf bug bit him deeply, he was so baseball-minded his friends were of the belief he stepped up the war’s mop-up in Europe so he could get to see another ball game. He beat it from the victory parade to the ball yard.

There followed Povich’s history of presidents and baseball, including the nugget that Harry Truman pranked the crowd by practicing for his first pitch right-handed, and then throwing as a southpaw. Then came the conclusion.

The participation of the President in the opening-game ceremonies has helped to label baseball as the national game, and so importantly is it viewed that the American League in alternate years gives the Washington club an advance opening. That is to insure the President’s presence and the White House blessings on the game at the start of the season, rather than later in the week after the Nats have opened on the road.

Baseball is the only industry to command such Presidential blessings annually. It’s a command performance, in reverse. The White House lends its dignity to no other private enterprise. The President, for instance, may send a word of greeting to the annual convention of the Master Plumbers, but he has yet to throw out the first plumber.