St Petersburg Metro explosion: CCTV image of suspect emerges after at least 10 killed by 'briefcase' bomb
St Petersburg Metro explosion: CCTV image of suspect emerges after at least 10 killed by 'briefcase' bomb
ussian authorities were hunting for two suspected terrorists on Monday after a bombing on the Saint Petersburg subway system killed 10 people and wounded dozens. The blast, which struck a crowded metro train near the historic city centre at 2:20 local time, and came as Vladimir Putin was visiting the city. Shortly afterwards police discovered at larger, unexploded device at one of the city’s busiest metro stations, prompting authorities to close the entire underground transport system. "A blast occurred at Sennaya Ploshchad metro station,” a police source told the Russian news agency Tass, “several people have been injured." Witnesses on board the crowded train said it was shaken by a “thundering clap” that filled the carriages with smoke shortly after it left the station.   “We all moved to the opposite end of the wagon, people jammed together and two women passed out. This all was happening while the train was still moving, it didn't stop,” Polina, a student who was in the neighbouring carriage, told Gazeta.ru he driver of the train won praise for deciding to continue to the next station, Technologichesky Institute, rather than stopping in the tunnel, a move that investigators said probably saved lives and made it easier for rescuers to reach the injured. hotographs from the station platform showed a blue train carriage with its door reduced mangled and twisted by the force of the blast.   Videos posted on social media showed a carriage wreathed in smoke and dazed and frightened passengers trying to exit the subway tunnels, while others knelt over the bodies of the wounded and the dead.     "People were bleeding, their hair burned.  We were told to move to the exit, because the movement stopped,” a witness told Russia's Life News.   "People just fled.  My girlfriend was in the next car that exploded.  She said that he began to shake.  When she came out, she saw that people were mutilated." Russia's president Vladimir Putin, who was meeting his Belarusian counterpart Lukashenko in a suburb of St Petersburg at the time, expressed his condolences after the "possible terror attack".   “The city authorities, and if needed, the federal authorities, will take the necessary measures to help the families of those affected by the blast,” he said. “The reasons behind it are not clear yet, and so it would be premature to speak about them,” he cautioned. ater, security sources told the Interfax news agency that the device was “homemade” with a blast equivalent to 200g of TNT.   The device appeared to have been packed full of shrapnel including metal nuts and bolts to cause maximum damage and had been left in the carriage in a back pack by the attacker, investigators said. A second bomb, disguised as a fire extinguisher, was later found at the Ploshchad Vosstanaya metro station, which serves the mainline railway station that connects St Petersburg with Moscow.   The device, which apparently failed to explode, was reported to contain about 1 kilogram of TNT equivalent, prompting speculation that it was intended as the “main” attack. he Investigative Committee, Russia’s top investigative agency, opened a terrorism investigation and issued search warrants for two people in connection with the attack. he suspects, who have not been named, were believed to have each planted one of the devices, the Interfax news agency reported. Russian media published CCTV images of a bearded man they claimed was the suspected attacker. Russia law enforcement agencies did not immediately confirm whether the man pictured was one of the suspect. No group immediately claimed responsibility for the attack. Russia’s transport infrastructure has been repeatedly targeted by Islamist terror groups based in the North Caucasus over the past two decades. onday’s attack was the deadliest outside the Caucasus since two suicide bombers killed 32 people in the southern city of Volgograd in December 2013. St Petersburg was last struck by terrorism in October 2015, when a bomb on board a civilian airliner travelling from Egypt killed 224 people, many of them holiday makers from the city. Islamic State claimed responsibility for that attack, calling it revenge for Russia’s military intervention in Syria. St Petersburg authorties suspended Metro services following the blasts and stepped up security at the city’s international airport. Georgy Poltavchenko ,the governor of St Petersburg, announced three days of official mourning beginning on Tuesday. axi and Uber drivers in the city were offering free rides to passengers stranded by the transport disruption on Monday evening. Boris Johnson, the foreign secretary, said he was “horrified” by the attack. “My sympathies are with the victims and their families,” he wrote on Twitter. rance's Interior Ministry stepped up security measures on public transport in the Paris region after the attack Mathias Fekl, the French Interior Minister, said in a statement Monday the decision was a "measure of precaution" after the explosion in St. Petersburg.  Flowers laid in memory of Metro blast victims lowers are being laid in memory of the Metro explosion victims tonight, including at the Leningrad Hero City memorial by the Kremlin Wall in Moscow where a man is pictured laying a rose. Warrants issued for two people wanted over Metro bombing arrants have been issued for two people wanted over the St Petersburg bombing, the Interfax news agency reports. It is unclear if the man in the CCTV picture released earlier is one of them. 'People had blood on their clothes... and bloody faces' fter the blast, the Metro station platform was a horrific scene of human suffering. Video showed injured people lying bleeding beside the train, some being treated by emergency services and fellow passengers. Others ran away from the platform amid clouds of smoke, some screaming or holding their hands to their faces. huge hole was blown open in the side of a carriage with metal wreckage strewn across the platform. Passengers were seen hammering at the windows of one closed carriage. Russian TV said many had suffered lacerations from glass shards and metal, the force of the explosion maximised by the confines of the carriage and the tunnel. "I saw a lot of smoke, a crowd making its way to the escalators, people with blood... on their clothes, bloody faces. Many were crying," said St Petersburg resident Leonid Chaika, who said he was at the station where the blast happened. Is it safe to visit Russia? The official advice fter the Metro attack on St Petersburg, Telegraph Travel's Hugh Morris looks at how safe it is to visit Russia and what the Foreign Office says about terrorism there. Click her e for more. Russian detectives open terror investigation into bomb blast he Russian Investigative Committee has said on its website that it has opened a criminal case under the Terrorist Act after the St Petersburg bomb. Earlier, a Russian official used the phrase "terrorist attack" in an interview before the comment was retracted. The Russian Investigative Committee said it will "continue to check all possible versions of what happened". Putin pictured meeting Belarusian President in St Petersburg on day of blast ussia's President Vladimir Putin happened to be in St Petersburg at the time of the blast, for a meeting with the Belarusian President, Alexander Lukashenko. Putin said investigators were looking into whether or not the subway explosion was a terror attack or if there might have been some other cause. He says: "Law enforcement agencies and intelligence services are doing their best to establish the cause and give a full picture of what happened." 10 killed in attack: seven at station, one in ambulance and two at hospital ussia's health minister has now said that 10 people have died after the St Petersburg subway blast, including seven at the scene, one in an ambulance and two at hospital. Russian health minister: Eight people killed and 39 in hospital ight people have been killed in the St Petersburg subway blast and 39 are in hospital, Russia's health minister has said. Russia's anti-terrorism committee had earlier confirmed that 10 people had died in the explosion CCTV picture shows suspect in St Petersburg 'briefcase' bombing urveillance cameras have captured images of the man who allegedly left a bomb - reportedly in a suitcase - on a St Petersburg Metro carriage. The man had a beard and wore a black hat. The Interfax agency cited as source that confirmed the explosive device was left in a briefcase. #ЭКСКЛЮЗИВ Публикуем фото предполагаемого террориста, устроившего #взрыв в #метро Петербурга: https://t.co/6IYGIorlFV  pic.twitter.com/6Po3RCy46f Video: Passengers gather on Metro platform after blast Another bomb 'found and deactivated' at Metro station fter earlier reports that another unexploded device had been found on the St Petersburg Metro system, a Russian anti-terrorism committee has said that officials have found and deactivated the other bomb. Timeline: Recent terror attacks on Russia s Russian officials examine the cause of the St Petersburg explosion, looks back at recent terror attacks on Russia. Air ambulance takes off from outside scene of blast he air ambulance that was earlier pictured outside Sennya Square has been seen taking off from the scene of the disaster in pictures and a video posted on Twitter: Питер. Техноложка. Десятки машин спецтехники. Запах медикаментов. Молчание кругом и только звук вертолёта. pic.twitter.com/UhII25uxYt Helicopter takes off from Tekhnologichesky Institut metro station in #SaintPetersburg  #PrayForSaintpetersburg  #Russia  pic.twitter.com/6ce3l3DkdZ Foreign Office poised to support any Britons caught up in attack he Foreign Office said it was ready to support any Britons caught up in the attack, though as yet there were no reports of British casualties, reports , The Telegraph's Defence Correspondent. A spokeswoman said: “We are liaising with Russian authorities following explosions on the St Petersburg Metro. Our sympathies are with those affected and their loved ones.” Witness: 'Everything is in smoke, very scary' A lot of wounded and it's scary, the train is uncleaned and everything is in smoke, very scary! Terarism is scary Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson 'horrified' by explosion oris Johnson, the Foreign Secretary, said on Twitter he was "horrified" by the explosion: Horrified by news of explosion in St Petersburg. My sympathies are with the victims and their families. He was joined in offering his condolences to victims by Jens Stoltenberg, the head of Nato: Deepest sympathy to those affected by the #StPetersburg metro explosion, their loved ones and the Russian people. Explosion is terrorist attack, official says he Russian prosecutor general has called the St Petersburg explosion a terrorist attack. Was the bomb left in a briefcase by a man who changed carriages? ccording to RBC, one of the main news agencies in St Petersburg, a man reportedly received a 'There was a thundering clap, followed by a strong smell smell and smoke' student that Gazeta.ru identifies only as Polina who was on the train between Sennaya and Texnologichesky Institute stations is reported as saying: "We were riding in the neighboring car, and at that time it was very crowded: all the seats were taken and many were standing. "The explosion went off between stations. There was a thundering clap, followed by a strong smell smell and smoke. "We all moved to the opposite end of the wagon, people jammed together and two women passed out. This all was happening while the train was still moving, it didn't stop. "Everyone got out at Tenologicheskom Institute station. There, we saw that the neighboring wagon was shattered, the windows blown out, no light, blood." Analysis: Central metro station would make an attractive terrorist target ennya Square is a busy intersection station where three of St Petersburg's five metro lines intersect, reports Moscow Correspondent . It is not near the St Petersburg city administration, but as a central metro station would make an attractive target for a terrorist seeking to spread fear. t Petersburg was last struck by a terror attack in October 2015, when a bomb blew up a St Petersburg bound jet carrying holiday makers home from Egypt , killing all 224 people on board. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, saying it was revenge for Russia's bombing in Syria. No one has yet taken responsibility for the latest blast. ussia has been rocked by terrorist attacks committed by Islamist terrorists from the North Caucasus several times over the past two decades. Unlike the multiple attacks on the Moscow metro in 2010, this attack does not seem to be the work of a suicide bomber. Another unexploded device reportedly found on Metro network source in the emergency services has reported that only one blast occurred, instead of the two initially reported, reports . The home made device was thought to be equivalent to 200 grams of TNT and was placed on the carriage. Another unexploded device has been found on the St Petersburg metro system, Russian agencies report. "A bomb that failed to go off was found at Vosstanaya Square metro station," Interfax reported citing an anonymous source. Police have not confirmed the report. Pictures from inside St Petersburg Metro  Third unexploded bomb reportedly discovered t. Petersburg website Fontanka reports claims that a third unexploded bomb was found at the Ploshad Vosstaniya metro station. This is unconfirmed at this stage. Entire St Petersburg subway network shut down he St Petersburg subway has shut down all stations following the explosion. Meanwhile, the Governor's press office reports that 50 people have been injured. Blasts reported on two carriages on Metro system he two blasts are reported to have happened on separate Metro carriages. It is unclear if the carriages were part of the same train. They are reported to have happened at Sadovaya and Sennaya Ploshchad stations. Putin: Investigators looking into possible terror attack ussia's President Putin has said investigators are looking into what he described as a "possible terror attack", which is "among the theories" for the St. Petersburg subway blast. Witness: 'People were bleeding, their hair burned' witnesses told Russia's Life News: "People were bleeding, their hair burned.  We were told to move to the exit, because the movement stopped. "People just fled.  My girlfriend was in the next car that exploded.  She said that he began to shake.  When she came out, she saw that people were mutilated." Anti-terrorism committee confirms 10 dead in Metro blast ussia's anti-terrorism committee has confirmed that 10 people have died in the explosion in the Russian city of St Petersburg. Subway official: Explosive device set off on train he St Petersburg subway press office said an explosive device was set off on a train in the Russian city. Putin: Authorities considering all possible causes ussia's President Putin has expressed his condolences following the Metro explosions. He said that authorities are considering all possible causes. Video: Footage shows passengers reaching to help those trapped inside blast train  President Putin was due to be in St Petersburg today Kremlin spokesman said President Putin - who was supposed to be meeting Belarusian counterpart Lukashenko in St Petersburg today - has been informed. Second blast reported in carriage at different station he second explosion is reported to have happened at around 2.40pm (12.40pm BST) on the blue branch of the St. Petersburg metro at the station "Sadovaya". A device reportedly exploded in the carriage. At least 10 dead after blast from shrapnel-filled device ccording to Tass News Agency, preliminary information suggests that 10 people have died in the explosion and 30 people have been injured. The blast is said to have involved a device filled with shrapnel, Interfax said. There appear to have been blasts at two St Petersburg Metro stations, RIA cites sources.  'Unknown number of people injured' ussian state media said the explosion has injured an unknown number of people. Other reports said "at least 10 people" have been hurt. It is unclear at this stage if anyone has died. Video: Passengers surrounded by smoke on platform Several people have been injured - police source police source told Russian news agency Tass: "A blast occurred at Sennaya Ploshchad metro station, several people have been injured." No one has been confirmed killed. Picture of Metro train door blown open В Питере взрыв в метро pic.twitter.com/HZvq7tqwXd

Explosion on Metro train in Russian city of St Petersburg

At least 10 killed and dozens injured by 'briefcase' bomb

CCTV image released of suspect pictured at station

Warrants issued for two people wanted over bombing

Blast reported to have been caused by shrapnel-filled device

Another unexploded bomb deactivated at another station

Putin was in city for meeting with Belarusian counterpart

Everything we know so far about the St Petersburg explosion

Russian authorities were hunting for two suspected terrorists on Monday after a bombing on the Saint Petersburg subway system killed 10 people and wounded dozens.

The blast, which struck a crowded metro train near the historic city centre at 2:20 local time, and came as Vladimir Putin was visiting the city.

Shortly afterwards police discovered at larger, unexploded device at one of the city’s busiest metro stations, prompting authorities to close the entire underground transport system.

"A blast occurred at Sennaya Ploshchad metro station,” a police source told the Russian news agency Tass, “several people have been injured."

Witnesses on board the crowded train said it was shaken by a “thundering clap” that filled the carriages with smoke shortly after it left the station.