35 Fucking Infuriating Things That Happen In Every Rom-Com
35 Of The Most Annoying Things That Happen In Every Rom-Com
Why not just call them? Or book a plane ticket, they're not gonna drop off the face of the earth. – LauraH2410 , Pandapanda124 and Mike Hernandez, Facebook                                   – MeghanaKiran                                              How is that possible? We can afford a box in a basement. – bybdauthor                                   For example, in they go to an outdoor wedding, in Ireland, in February! And then to top it off they sleep on a bench after said wedding. The average temperature in Ireland in February is 5°C (41°F) – emmat4b381ccdc                                   He's a jerk. No thank you. – sushigal007                                   – Cadyj1392                                   Is this OK? IS IT??? – Larken                                   Is stalking OK? Let me think... Nope. Kate Sheard, Facebook                                   What is with all these women who have wonderful lives, Nora Jones-beautiful kitchens, and supportive friends, but somehow they are deeply unhappy because they are single? SINGLE! GOD NO! There's more to life than getting a guy, btw. – allisonb4b7da2348                                              Please see: , , , , , to name but a few... – danie87 , Picospeaches and marthaj4b4ecca41                                              Every other profession must be run by men. – gabbyf4f98bf5f8 and ScuzzleButt                                              What is wrong with confidence? – rwash1997                                              Cher ends up dating her step brother in . I KNOW, they're not blood related, but that's still kind of weird is it not? And the teacher falling for a pretend student in . Don't tell me that's not odd as well. – caraw4438bdc8c                                   – laurad4169b4382                                              Great message to people that can't help it if they have to wear glasses, guys. – BlueBirdZoe and Bill Poon, Facebook                                   Stereotypes are real. – kelseya42b0aeac5                                   Don't even get us started on that cheesy line. – doomsicle , tyrannosaurusjess and Katie Bingman, Facebook                                   – GirlEnchanted                                   Do you know what words are? Good. Use them to explain the situation to the other person. –Jessi Watson, Facebook, hollycc , isabelladee01 , elisevb2595 , judahachenry and lexy9898                                   Another thing that gives us unachievable expectations. Thanks. – Yas Langley                                   "Nice guy dates bitchy girl, usually for a long(ish) time. Nice girl likes nice guy. Blah blah blah stuff happens. Nice guy kisses nice girl – cheating on current bitchy girl – but is still the good guy. (HOWEVER if bitchy girl kisses/shags someone else she is in the wrong. Double standards or what?!) Nice girl and nice guy end up together and no thought is given to bitchy girl who may not actually be that bad. No one gives a thought to the fact that bitchy girl may have just had her heart broken, but it's fine because the "good" couple end up together in the end." – rebeccad4368d6a5f                                   Newsflash: Girls like to have no strings sex too. Also, virgin-shaming also isn't cool fyi. –Sara Rose Moreira, Facebook                                   For example, in the two main characters are supposed to be BEST FRIENDS but Rachel sleeps with her best friend Darcy's fiancé! Oh and Darcy sleeps with the guy she thinks is dating Rachel. Best friends don't do that shit. – alyssab4eeb7f267                                   Because that's the only role they could be there for. Stereotypes, man. – emmfarc and Dawn Sardella-Ayres , Facebook                                   – audreys4a6196a57                                   Maybe they don't need to do anything that extreme. Just maybe. – kend4fe281761                                   OH THANK GOD, he got her in time. – jodiel4ee6cd574                                   Pretty selfish tbh. And can they throw away thousands of pounds just like that? – belenl2 and alyssab4eeb7f267                                   How about the other way around for a change? –Dawn Sardella-Ayres and Annie Mills, Facebook                                              , , , , , , , , ... –Sara Lee, Facebook                                   Has it ever occurred to people that not only white people have relationships? – jennyb27                                   You've known them for two minutes! – Left Back at Home NCFC, Facebook                                   So many questions. Did they finish eating? Did they just start making out at the table?! Who paid the bill?!? Why didn't they take home the leftovers?? – jillianmccabe3                                   Just like that. So easy. Also... does it to be in public? I would kill them not jump into their arms. – Sara G                                   "Girl/guy hates something in their life (job, living situation, etc.) they have the best friend there for comic relief (sometimes a slutty friend, sometimes a gay friend). Usually they're either secretly in love with someone, or still pining over an ex. Either they end up dating the wrong person, and that wrong person does something douchey, or they fall in love with the random stranger/friend that's been there all along – yet (not-so-plot-twist) they have some sort of fight/fallout that gets resolved by some big romantic gesture or speech that makes every sap cry. And there is your basic plot summary for 80% of chick flicks." –Taryn McCarl, Facebook

Paramount Pictures

"Nice guy dates bitchy girl, usually for a long(ish) time. Nice girl likes nice guy. Blah blah blah stuff happens. Nice guy kisses nice girl – cheating on current bitchy girl – but is still the good guy.

(HOWEVER if bitchy girl kisses/shags someone else she is in the wrong. Double standards or what?!)

Nice girl and nice guy end up together and no thought is given to bitchy girl who may not actually be that bad. No one gives a thought to the fact that bitchy girl may have just had her heart broken, but it's fine because the "good" couple end up together in the end." –rebeccad4368d6a5f