NSW floods: Girl escaped car that entered Tweed River, three other passengers feared dead



NSW floods: Girl escaped car that entered Tweed River, three other passengers feared dead

Updated

Police divers will join the search this morning for three people feared dead in a submerged vehicle in the Tweed River near Tumbulgum, in northern New South Wales.

Key points: A girl, 9, is recovering after escaping a car that went into the Tweed River

Witnesses jumped in the water but could not reach the submerged car

The other occupants are feared dead

Police divers are on their way to Tumbulgum and the recovery operation will resume on Tuesday morning

A nine-year-old girl escaped the vehicle before it went under the water.

The girl was able to escape when the car entered the river, still swollen by extensive flooding, and she raised the alarm with residents nearby.

Emergency services were alerted at about 1:40pm.

Matt Grinham was travelling along Dulguigan Road near Tumbulgum when traffic stopped as the car went into the river.

He and two others went into the water to try and rescue the occupants, with the car having floated down about 40 metres from where it entered the river.

Mr Grinham struggled to open his eyes in the murky floodwaters as he followed the bubbles made by the submerged car.

"Even though we were diving down to the bubbles we couldn't get deep enough to touch the car," he said.

"It was just one of those things I suppose, you just felt helpless, couldn't do anything."

A local resident found the vehicle underwater about 5 metres off the riverbank using a fishing boat with sonar gear.

Emergency services are working to recover the other people who were inside the car.

"That is a tragic event, and we're concerned it is a tragic event that will unfold over the evening and we understand that it is going to have a major impact on the family and the Tweed community," NSW Police Assistant Commissioner Jeff Loy said.

The girl was taken to Tweed Hospital and is being looked after by family members.

Topics: floods, tumbulgum-2490, chinderah-2487, murwillumbah-2484

First posted