Ariana Grande Has a Mini 'Victorious' Reunion at Her Concert
Ariana Grande Has a Mini 'Victorious' Reunion at Her Concert
Ariana Grande Has a Mini 'Victorious' Reunion at Her Concert  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Ariana Grande was feeling pretty Victorious at her Dangerous Woman tour on Friday. As the "Into You" singer prepared to rock the stage at The Forum in Inglewood, California, she reunited with two of her former castmatesÂ backstage.Â Leon Thomas III and Matt Bennett --Â who played Andre andÂ Robbie, respectively, on the Nickelodeon show -- spent some time with Grande, with Thomas sharing a snap of the three hanging out.  The mini-reunion took place just four days afterÂ celebrated its seventh anniversary, with Grande chiming inÂ on Twitter Â about how much she missesÂ bibbleÂ (the fictional colorful popcorn theÂ characters loved on the show). While it's not totally clear what Grande, Thomas and Bennett did during their backstage hangout, surely there was some reminiscing. Check out Grande'sÂ reunion below: Here's a cool pic from the other night backstage at Ari's concert. Shout out to @jonescrow for taking this photo. -- A post shared by Leon Thomas (@leonthomas) on  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Ariana Grande was feeling pretty Victorious at her Dangerous Woman tour on Friday.

As the "Into You" singer prepared to rock the stage at The Forum in Inglewood, California, she reunited with two of her former Victorious castmatesÂ backstage.Â Leon Thomas III and Matt Bennett --Â who played Andre andÂ Robbie, respectively, on the Nickelodeon show -- spent some time with Grande, with Thomas sharing a snap of the three hanging out.

The mini-reunion took place just four days afterÂ VictoriousÂ celebrated its seventh anniversary, with Grande chiming inÂ on TwitterÂ about how much she missesÂ bibbleÂ (the fictional colorful popcorn theÂ VictoriousÂ characters loved on the show). While it's not totally clear what Grande, Thomas and Bennett did during their backstage hangout, surely there was some reminiscing.

Check out Grande'sÂ VictoriousÂ reunion below: