Panera Spikes 10% On Rumors That It's Exploring A Sale
Panera Spikes 10% On Rumors That It's Exploring A Sale
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Maggie McGrath       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. In this photo from May of 2002, Panera Bread  CEO Ron Shaich stands behind a counter at a location in St. Louis. On Monday, Bloomberg reported that Panera is considering putting itself up for sale. (AP Photo/Tom Gannam, File) Is Panera following in Popeyes' footsteps and putting itself on the market? The company isn't commenting, but shares of the fast-casual sandwich-and-soup chain have spiked in midday trading Monday following a report from Bloomberg saying that the company is exploring its options -- including a sale -- in the wake of some takeover interest. In response to queries about its plans, chief financial officer Michael Bufano said, “As a matter of policy, we never comment on rumors or speculation.” Sale or no sale, Panera does happen to be one of the more attractive restaurant companies in the market, as it has managed to thrive while the broader restaurant industry has struggled . The fast-casual operator finished 2016 with 5% revenue growth and a 10% jump in full-year earnings per share, while same-store sales at company-owned stores grew 4.2% for the year, outpacing the broader industry as a whole. And just last week, Panera became the first national restaurant chain to post information about added sugars and calories for all self-serve beverages. In a Thursday interview at the Panera Bread on Fifth Avenue, CEO and founder Ron Shaich talked to about how he makes bets on new food and technology initiatives -- though in the wake of Monday's market rumor, his comments appear applicable to any strategic decision for the brand. "Knowing what to bet on is hard," Shaich said at the time. "I spend all my time thinking about how is Panera preparing for a future that is only unfolding as we talk?" Shares of Panera shot up more than 10% immediately following the Bloomberg report; shares of the stock are currently up 9.2%. Monday's gains have pushed the company's market cap to $6.48 billion, up from about $6 billion even. What To Expect From Starbucks, Panera And The Restaurant Space In 2017 Panera Beats Earnings Expectations As Investment In 'Panera 2.0' Begins To Pay Off Restaurant Recession? Maybe Not If You're Panera, Sonic Or Starbucks Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Is Panera following in Popeyes' footsteps and putting itself on the market?

The company isn't commenting, but shares of the fast-casual sandwich-and-soup chain have spiked in midday trading Monday following a report from Bloomberg saying that the company is exploring its options -- including a sale -- in the wake of some takeover interest.

In response to queries about its plans, chief financial officer Michael Bufano said, “As a matter of policy, we never comment on rumors or speculation.”

Sale or no sale, Panera does happen to be one of the more attractive restaurant companies in the market, as it has managed to thrive while the broader restaurant industry has struggled. The fast-casual operator finished 2016 with 5% revenue growth and a 10% jump in full-year earnings per share, while same-store sales at company-owned stores grew 4.2% for the year, outpacing the broader industry as a whole.

And just last week, Panera became the first national restaurant chain to post information about added sugars and calories for all self-serve beverages. In a Thursday interview at the Panera Bread on Fifth Avenue, CEO and founder Ron Shaich talked to Forbes about how he makes bets on new food and technology initiatives -- though in the wake of Monday's market rumor, his comments appear applicable to any strategic decision for the brand.

"Knowing what to bet on is hard," Shaich said at the time. "I spend all my time thinking about how is Panera preparing for a future that is only unfolding as we talk?"

Shares of Panera shot up more than 10% immediately following the Bloomberg report; shares of the stock are currently up 9.2%. Monday's gains have pushed the company's market cap to $6.48 billion, up from about $6 billion even.

For prior Forbes coverage of Panera, see:

What To Expect From Starbucks, Panera And The Restaurant Space In 2017

Panera Beats Earnings Expectations As Investment In 'Panera 2.0' Begins To Pay Off

Restaurant Recession? Maybe Not If You're Panera, Sonic Or Starbucks