Hannity: Susan Rice 'Has a Lot of Explaining to Do' About Intel 'Unmasking'

Hannity: Susan Rice 'Has a Lot of Explaining to Do' About Intel 'Unmasking' // // // // // In his Opening Monologue on Monday, Sean Hannity said former national security adviser Susan Rice "has a lot of explaining to do" about her role in 'unmasking' associates of President Trump caught in surveillance webs. According to Fox News' Adam Housley , sources have named Rice as the member of the administration that initiated the unmasking, or identification, of those individuals. Hannity said the names that were unmasked at Rice's behest were sent to several top intelligence officials, from the National Security Council to CIA Director John Brennan and her own top aide Ben Rhodes. He asked whether Rice was lying when she told CBS that she knows nothing about the reports of her reported role in the unmasking. Hannity said Americans must be told what Rhodes, Brennan and others know about the situation, and whether the unmasking was done for political purposes. "Did they knowingly surveil an opposition party or incoming president?" he asked. Housley told Hannity that those same intelligence agencies "slow-rolled" House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) while he was investigating the allegations.

In his Opening Monologue on Monday, Sean Hannity said former national security adviser Susan Rice "has a lot of explaining to do" about her role in 'unmasking' associates of President Trump caught in surveillance webs.

According to Fox News' Adam Housley, sources have named Rice as the member of the administration that initiated the unmasking, or identification, of those individuals.

Krauthammer: 'Trump Derangement Syndrome' Has Dems Too Afraid of Their Base Over Gorsuch

NJ Mayor: Trump Wants to Make Sanctuary Cities 'Fugitive Slave Catchers'

Trump Donates First Quarter Paycheck to National Park Service

Hannity said the names that were unmasked at Rice's behest were sent to several top intelligence officials, from the National Security Council to CIA Director John Brennan and her own top aide Ben Rhodes.

He asked whether Rice was lying when she told CBS that she knows nothing about the reports of her reported role in the unmasking.

Hannity said Americans must be told what Rhodes, Brennan and others know about the situation, and whether the unmasking was done for political purposes.

"Did they knowingly surveil an opposition party or incoming president?" he asked.

Housley told Hannity that those same intelligence agencies "slow-rolled" House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) while he was investigating the allegations.

'You Know You're in Texas...': Gov. Abbott Tweets Photo of Concealed Carry Sign

Huckabee Sanders: New DNC Chair Perez 'Completely Out of Touch'

'Our Dishonest President': LA Times Op-Ed Slams Trump