Give Roy Williams the Credit He Deserves: UNC Coach Is Best of This Generation
Give Roy Williams the Credit He Deserves: UNC Coach Is Best of This Generation
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Roy Williams is in the Hall of Fame. He will play in the national championship game for the sixth time in his career Monday night and try for his third national title. So what I'm about to write might seem ridiculous, but it needs to be written. Roy Williams is underrated. Roy Williams the best coach of the new . Now before you bombard my Twitter mentions, please study this chart: And before you mention Mike Krzyzewski has five rings—and three since 2000—check this out. North Carolina ACC regular-season titles since Williams took over in 2003-04: eight. Duke ACC regular-season titles since then: three. Even if Williams loses on Monday night after reaching the title game for the second time in two years, it does not change that he's done the current era of college hoops better than anyone else. Yet when the "best coaches in college basketball" conversation happens, he rarely gets mentioned. And, obviously, he doesn't make the list of greatest coaches of all time. His hero and mentor, Dean Smith, is on that list, and so are John Wooden, Adolph Rupp, Phog Allen, Krzyzewski, Bob Knight and Rick Pitino . But Williams could pass Smith and Pitino in NCAA titles on Monday, tie Knight and move within one title of Rupp. Williams is not in the conversation due to a list of reasons that are about as dumb as judging a coach through a popularity contest. Williams has won a higher percentage of his games (.791) than all but one active coach: Gonzaga's Mark Few (.818). Few is an excellent coach himself, and trying to discredit his team's legitimacy because he coaches in the West Coast Conference is silly. But it has inflated his winning percentage. However you slice it, Williams wins and wins and wins, and he's done so in the best conferences and on the biggest stage. But, for whatever reason, he does not win the popularity contest. My good friends over at CBS Sports annually do a Candid Coaches series where they ask Division I coaches for their vote on different poll questions. Williams did not receive a single vote. But Williams has navigated the one-and-done era as well as any coach in college basketball without nabbing those top talents. Unlike John Calipari , considered the best recruiter in the game, Williams has mostly targeted the 4-star and 5-star recruits who need time to develop, and that's allowed him to enter March with NBA-caliber players with actual college experience, such as current stars Justin Jackson and Joel Berry II. North Carolina has not had a one-and-done player in 10 years. Jackson was considered a possible candidate and is the only player who was ranked in the top 15 of his class by Scout.com who is still in college. "I never had my mind set on going one-and-done," Jackson told Bleacher Report last week. "There are a lot of players who [think like that], but then they go in a different direction. "People just fall in love with Carolina. Everyone falls in love with the program. It's a family, and sometimes it's hard to leave a family." "It's just something about the brotherhood here," current freshman and 5-star recruit Tony Bradley said, admitting he will have a decision to make after this season—though it would be difficult to leave his school. Williams cannot boast that his players are having more success in the NBA than any other program, but back-to-back national-title appearances say he's doing just fine in recruiting. As an offensive coach, Williams is not considered a great X's and O's tactician. When his peers were polled on who is the best offensive coach in college hoops, Williams did not receive a single vote. That's probably because he relies on the Carolina secondary break and isn't innovating new offensive sets or systems. "If we don’t score in our secondary break, we go into motion, and motion is the hardest thing to coach because people don’t know what you’re going to do," said C.B. McGrath, who played for Williams at Kansas and has been on his coaching staff for 18 seasons. "You’ve got to spend a lot of time teaching motion for players to understand what they’re supposed to do. "It’s harder to defend because we don’t have any calls for the most part. That helps with our offense because people aren't going to know You sort of don’t know." No matter how the sausage is made, we should judge on results. And the fairest judge in basketball is efficiency. Since Ken Pomeroy began keeping track of such numbers in 2002, Williams-coached teams have been in the top 20 in adjusted offensive efficiency 12 times and ranked first three times. Only Krzyzewski can top that. "It's the attention to detail, and the fact that he doesn't let guys get away," former Tar Heel player and current staffer Sean May said. "He doesn't let guys think they're bigger than the program, and it has a way of humbling you. He always says the thing he is at his core is a teacher. His job is to get five guys to do something collectively that's bigger than anyone individually. "He sticks to his guns and sticks to his principles, and I think that's what allows him to be great." Again, no votes. But the numbers are kind to Williams on that end as well. He's finished in the top 20 in adjusted efficiency nine times in the last 16 years. Williams' critics have two cards that they typically play. First, they will point out in-game adjustments, and the fact that Williams doesn't take many timeouts when his team is the victim of a run. But you do not win as often as Williams has won without the ability to make adjustments, and Williams is one of the best ever at schooling his team so it does not need to adjust. "He adjusts things along in the game, but it might be when that timeout comes," McGrath said. "He always wants to have timeouts at the end of games. "It’s hard to criticize and prove a point. Well yeah, but maybe it wouldn’t have. What’s worked out for him is winning, and that’s what you’re trying to do." Williams always puts one of the most talented (and usually experienced) rosters in the country on the floor, and then he thrives with a simple analytical formula: get as many possessions as possible. The Heels do this by pushing the pace and crashing the offensive glass—they rank first in that category this season—and more often than not, the better team wins high-possession games. "I've always felt that rebounding, if I, Roy Williams, could only pick one thing, I would always pick rebounding as the most significant factor in determining who wins the game," Williams said. "Because I think the game's pretty simple. You get it. I get it. You get it. I get it. The only way for me to get more opportunities is to get more offensive rebounds to get another shot and to make sure that you don't get more offensive rebounds." It's fitting that on Saturday night the Tar Heels sealed the win over Oregon with two offensive rebounds in the closing seconds. This 5’7” Winthrop PG Keon Johnson Proves That Height Is Just a Number Dunk City Is Back! Florida Gulf Coast Ready to Fly High in March Dreams to Reality: Northern Iowa Buzzer Beater UNCW's Biggest Cinderella Story Is Their Walk-on Guard Chris Flemming Take Your Shot: How R.J. Hunter's Miracle 3  Led to Incredible Tourney Upset Meet Texas A&M's Robert Williams: NBA Lottery Sleeper Pick with a 7'5" Wingspan This Night in the NBA: Kawhi Leonard Makes MVP Case, Dion Waiters Goes Off History of Vinsanity B/R Presents: "Great Question" with Ice Cube This Personal Trainer Has Been Demolishing Your Bench Goals Since High School History Will Never Forget New England Patriots 5th Championship in Super Bowl LI 'Train as If Your Life Depends on It': Meet the Bodybuilder with Bionic Strength A7FL No-Pads, Full-Contact Football League Claims It's Safer Than the NFL Gridiron Heights: Patriots Win Super Bowl LI Fake Brady Makes Appearance at Super Bowl 51 Media Day Watch All-American Molly Huddle Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year Winner From Homeless to #1 Recruit: How Najee Harris Went from the Streets to Alabama Allen Iverson’s Cousin Is Grabbing Boards and Turning Heads in College Basketball From College Lacrosse to Super Bowl 51: Chris Hogan's Journey The HS Freshman Who Knows Where Top Recruits Are Headed Before Anyone Else This Night in the NBA Destruction, Chaos and Cardboard: Welcome to Boxwars 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Incredible Athlete and Double Amputee Is Redefining Heavy Lifting Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Gridiron Heights Episode 20: Roger Goodell Hosts the Griddies Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz Meet the College Basketball Coach with Dozens of Handshakes and Unlimited Swag Simms in 60: Brady's Brilliance Has Made NE Unstoppable Force Heading into SB51 Barack Obama: Fan of the Game How 15-Year-Old LaMelo Ball Is Making Half-Court Pull-Ups the New 3-Pointer Don't Get Caught: Meet Awesome Athletes Living Their Dreams in World Chase Tag Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Revisiting the Best Moments from Championship Teams Visiting President Obama Week 19 Episode of Gridiron Heights Why Are Tyson, Mayweather Training Chris Brown and Soulja Boy for Boxing Match? Former NFL Star Warrick Dunn Built Deshaun Watson's Childhood Home How Rodgers and Cobb Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Wild Card Weekend Gridiron Heights, Ep. 18: Giants and Justin Beiber Are on a Boat Simms in 60: Nothing Is More Frustrating Than Inconsistent NFL Playoff Referees The Real Story Behind This Husky Ninja's Jaw-Dropping Parkour Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns 16-Year-Old Dunking Phenom Zion Williamson Is Not Done Blowing Up Your Timeline Why Rodgers vs. Giants Defense Will Be the Best Matchup of Wild Card Weekend How Tom Brady and Julian Edelman Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Week 17 Lane Kiffin Saga Continues: CFB's Biggest Lightning Rod Keeps Burning Bridges Denied a Chance to Compete in College, This Runner Found a Way to Strike Gold Gridiron Heights, Ep. 17: Von, Cam Watch Trailer for “Playoffs: the Movie" Predicting 2017 Pro Football Hall of Fame Finalists Chris Simms' NFL Power Rankings for Week 17 Gridiron Heights, Episode 15: Christmas Special These Custom Nikes Raised $1.2M for the Doernbecher Children's Hospital Josh Norman Looks to Use His $75M Contract on a New D.C. Area Mansion Rest in Peace, Craig Sager: Paying Tribute to a Legendary NBA Sideline Reporter James Harden Is an Assassin: the Beard Makes His Case for NBA MVP Eddie George Surprises Buckeye Commit with Gatorade Player of the Year Award Simms in 60: Time to End Hypocritical Money Grab Called Thursday Night Football Cubs Star Kyle Schwarber Gives 10-Year-Old Fan Big Surprise with Batmobile Ride Packers Fan's Last Wish Comes True Malik Jackson Shows Off His Killer Beach Home with Incredible Views Meet Harrison Browne, the Transgender Athlete Who Is Redefining the Game Gridiron Heights, Ep. 14: Patriots Fight Cowboys Rebellion for 'Rogue One' Seats 2016: The Year of Cristiano Ronaldo MMA Contender Tim Kennedy: Green Beret and Top of ISIS Hit List Welcome to College Football's Largest Bowl Game Everything You Need to Know About College Football Bowl Season 2016 in 60 Seconds LeBron vs. Melo: the Rivalry Continues Between Superstar Friends Gridiron Heights Week 13 Sunday in 60: Matt Ryan Is About to Throw Away the Atlanta Falcons' Season LeBron vs. Wade: Legendary Heat Teammates Face Off in Hometown Clash Simms in 60: It's Time for NFL to Change 'Backwards' Medical Marijuana Policy Devonta Freeman's Stunning Mural Honors Atlanta & Cleat Week Larry Fitzgerald Unveils Epic Nike Spikes for B/R Cleat Week Gridiron Heights, Episode 12: The NFL Tries to Survive in "Planet Gridiron" Athlete Adventurer Ross Edgley Completes Triathlon Carrying a 100-Pound Tree Gridiron Heights, Episode 11: the Stars Give Thanks at Jerry Jones' Table This Thanksgiving Simms in 60: No One Deserves MVP Award More Than Oakland Raiders' QB Derek Carr Meet Joe Thomas Sr.: the 55-Year-Old Rudy Best Start Since Jordan: Relive DeMar Derozan's Historic Opening Weeks Simms' Hidden Truth: NFL's Top Offenses Turning Back Clock to Old-School Attack Chris Simms' Week 10 NFL Sunday Awards Gridiron Heights, Ep. 10: The Raiders Are Crashing the AFC Elites Party Gridiron Heights, Episode 9: Tom Brady, Roger Goodell Run for Mayor on Election Day AD vs. Boogie: Which Big Man Will America Choose? Sunday in 60: Dallas Cowboys Belong with New England Patriots in NFL's Top Tier The Hype: No. 1 Alabama Hopes to Keep Hopes Alive vs. Rival No. 13 LSU KD vs. Russ, Round 1: The NBA's Newest Rivalry Begins Tonight Watch No. 1 Recruit Najee Harris Star in 'Stranger Things' Inspired Trailer Fact or Fiction for Pro Football Hall of Fame Class of 2017 Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant to Go Head-to-Head in Exclusive Game of P-I-G Durant, Curry to Compete in Game of P-I-G Exclusively on B/R Gridiron Heights, Episode 8: An Unexpected Guest Crashes the Wilson's Baby Shower How Derek Carr and Seth Roberts Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Week 8 Insider Buzz: Increasingly Likely Cowboys Stick with Dak in the Long-Term The Next Adrian Peterson? Najee Harris Breaks 7 Tackles on Beast-Mode TD Run Gridiron Heights, Episode 7: A Rookie Monster Has Players Scared in Town Everything You Need to Know About College Football Week 9 in 60 Seconds Gridiron Heights: Cam, Von Miller Make Up, Tom Brady Escapes from Goodell’s Dog House The louder critics will point to the academic scandal that has been a black eye to the university. Athletes took what were essentially fake classes, and that's a bad look for the school and athletic programs. But I believe Williams when he has said he did not know about what was going on. Roy Williams is as pure a coach in this industry that you will find. Consider me naive if you'd like, but I think Williams wants to win clean. "Obviously it’s bothered him because integrity has been the thing he’s valued the most in his whole career," McGrath said. "And he’s never tried to do anything purposely wrong. He’s never tried to break a rule. We follow the rules like you can’t believe. It’s a joke." Behind all the folksiness and dadgums is a sincerity. That is just ol' Roy. He might be cheesy. But there's nothing fake about him. It is not an act. "He doesn’t say what he says in the press conference and then come in here and F-bomb everybody and say ‘I’m the reason we’re so successful,’" McGrath said. "Whatever you see out there is exactly what you see if it’s just me and him." Whether you like him or not, all that should matter is the results. And the results say no coach has been better in the modern era. The results say he's one of the all-time greats. Popularity contests be damned, dadgummit. Ol' Roy is a legend.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

UNC coach Roy Williams has his Tar Heels back in the title game. Associated Press

C.J. Moore College Basketball National Lead Writer

GLENDALE, Ariz. — Roy Williams is in the Hall of Fame. He will play in the national championship game for the sixth time in his career Monday night and try for his third national title.

So what I'm about to write might seem ridiculous, but it needs to be written.

Roy Williams is underrated.

Roy Williams is the best coach of the new millennium.

Now before you bombard my Twitter mentions, please study this chart:

Most NCAA tournament wins since 2000 NCAA tournament wins 1. Roy Williams, Kansas/UNC 55 2. Mike Krzyzewski, Duke 44 3. Tom Izzo, Michigan State 43 4. Bill Self, Tulsa/Illinois/KU 42 5. John Calipari, Memphis/UK 40 Bleacher Report

And before you mention Mike Krzyzewski has five rings—and three since 2000—check this out.

North Carolina ACC regular-season titles since Williams took over in 2003-04: eight.

Duke ACC regular-season titles since then: three.

Even if Williams loses on Monday night after reaching the title game for the second time in two years, it does not change that he's done the current era of college hoops better than anyone else.

Yet when the "best coaches in college basketball" conversation happens, he rarely gets mentioned. And, obviously, he doesn't make the list of greatest coaches of all time.

His hero and mentor, Dean Smith, is on that list, and so are John Wooden, Adolph Rupp, Phog Allen, Krzyzewski, Bob Knight and Rick Pitino.

Williams is making a case for himself as the best coach of this generation over ACC rival Mike Krzyzewski. Gerry Broome/Associated Press/Associated Press/Associated Press

But Williams could pass Smith and Pitino in NCAA titles on Monday, tie Knight and move within one title of Rupp.

Williams is not in the conversation due to a list of reasons that are about as dumb as judging a coach through a popularity contest.

Williams has won a higher percentage of his games (.791) than all but one active coach: Gonzaga's Mark Few (.818). Few is an excellent coach himself, and trying to discredit his team's legitimacy because he coaches in the West Coast Conference is silly. But it has inflated his winning percentage.

However you slice it, Williams wins and wins and wins, and he's done so in the best conferences and on the biggest stage.

But, for whatever reason, he does not win the popularity contest.

My good friends over at CBS Sports annually do a Candid Coaches series where they ask Division I coaches for their vote on different poll questions.

Who is college basketball's best recruiter? Williams did not receive a single vote.

But Williams has navigated the one-and-done era as well as any coach in college basketball without nabbing those top talents.

Unlike John Calipari, considered the best recruiter in the game, Williams has mostly targeted the 4-star and 5-star recruits who need time to develop, and that's allowed him to enter March with NBA-caliber players with actual college experience, such as current stars Justin Jackson and Joel Berry II.

North Carolina has not had a one-and-done player in 10 years.

Jackson was considered a possible candidate and is the only player who was ranked in the top 15 of his class by Scout.com who is still in college.

Justin Jackson has developed into a star while playing under Williams for three seasons. Gerry Broome/Associated Press/Associated Press/Associated Press

"I never had my mind set on going one-and-done," Jackson told Bleacher Report last week. "There are a lot of players who [think like that], but then they go in a different direction.

"People just fall in love with Carolina. Everyone falls in love with the program. It's a family, and sometimes it's hard to leave a family."

"It's just something about the brotherhood here," current freshman and 5-star recruit Tony Bradley said, admitting he will have a decision to make after this season—though it would be difficult to leave his school.

Williams cannot boast that his players are having more success in the NBA than any other program, but back-to-back national-title appearances say he's doing just fine in recruiting.

As an offensive coach, Williams is not considered a great X's and O's tactician. When his peers were polled on who is the best offensive coach in college hoops, Williams did not receive a single vote.

That's probably because he relies on the Carolina secondary break and isn't innovating new offensive sets or systems.

"If we don’t score in our secondary break, we go into motion, and motion is the hardest thing to coach because people don’t know what you’re going to do," said C.B. McGrath, who played for Williams at Kansas and has been on his coaching staff for 18 seasons. "You’ve got to spend a lot of time teaching motion for players to understand what they’re supposed to do.

"It’s harder to defend because we don’t have any calls for the most part. That helps with our offense because people aren't going to know is Justin getting the shot this time? Are we going inside to Kennedy [Meeks]? You sort of don’t know."

No matter how the sausage is made, we should judge on results. And the fairest judge in basketball is efficiency.

Since Ken Pomeroy began keeping track of such numbers in 2002, Williams-coached teams have been in the top 20 in adjusted offensive efficiency 12 times and ranked first three times. Only Krzyzewski can top that.

"It's the attention to detail, and the fact that he doesn't let guys get away," former Tar Heel player and current staffer Sean May said. "He doesn't let guys think they're bigger than the program, and it has a way of humbling you. He always says the thing he is at his core is a teacher. His job is to get five guys to do something collectively that's bigger than anyone individually.

"He sticks to his guns and sticks to his principles, and I think that's what allows him to be great."

Sean May (right) has seen Williams' greatness up close as a player and staffer. MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/Associated Press/Associated Press

Who is the best defensive coach in college basketball? Again, no votes. But the numbers are kind to Williams on that end as well. He's finished in the top 20 in adjusted efficiency nine times in the last 16 years.

Williams' critics have two cards that they typically play.

First, they will point out in-game adjustments, and the fact that Williams doesn't take many timeouts when his team is the victim of a run.

But you do not win as often as Williams has won without the ability to make adjustments, and Williams is one of the best ever at schooling his team so it does not need to adjust.

"He adjusts things along in the game, but it might be when that timeout comes," McGrath said. "He always wants to have timeouts at the end of games.

"It’s hard to criticize and prove a point. Well, maybe it would have worked out. Well yeah, but maybe it wouldn’t have. What’s worked out for him is winning, and that’s what you’re trying to do."

Williams always puts one of the most talented (and usually experienced) rosters in the country on the floor, and then he thrives with a simple analytical formula: get as many possessions as possible.

The Heels do this by pushing the pace and crashing the offensive glass—they rank first in that category this season—and more often than not, the better team wins high-possession games.

"I've always felt that rebounding, if I, Roy Williams, could only pick one thing, I would always pick rebounding as the most significant factor in determining who wins the game," Williams said. "Because I think the game's pretty simple. You get it. I get it. You get it. I get it. The only way for me to get more opportunities is to get more offensive rebounds to get another shot and to make sure that you don't get more offensive rebounds."

It's fitting that on Saturday night the Tar Heels sealed the win over Oregon with two offensive rebounds in the closing seconds.

This 5’7” Winthrop PG Keon Johnson Proves That Height Is Just a Number Dunk City Is Back! Florida Gulf Coast Ready to Fly High in March Dreams to Reality: Northern Iowa Buzzer Beater UNCW's Biggest Cinderella Story Is Their Walk-on Guard Chris Flemming Take Your Shot: How R.J. Hunter's Miracle 3 Led to Incredible Tourney Upset Meet Texas A&M's Robert Williams: NBA Lottery Sleeper Pick with a 7'5" Wingspan This Night in the NBA: Kawhi Leonard Makes MVP Case, Dion Waiters Goes Off History of Vinsanity B/R Presents: "Great Question" with Ice Cube This Personal Trainer Has Been Demolishing Your Bench Goals Since High School History Will Never Forget New England Patriots 5th Championship in Super Bowl LI 'Train as If Your Life Depends on It': Meet the Bodybuilder with Bionic Strength A7FL No-Pads, Full-Contact Football League Claims It's Safer Than the NFL Gridiron Heights: Patriots Win Super Bowl LI Fake Brady Makes Appearance at Super Bowl 51 Media Day Watch All-American Molly Huddle Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year Winner From Homeless to #1 Recruit: How Najee Harris Went from the Streets to Alabama Allen Iverson’s Cousin Is Grabbing Boards and Turning Heads in College Basketball From College Lacrosse to Super Bowl 51: Chris Hogan's Journey The HS Freshman Who Knows Where Top Recruits Are Headed Before Anyone Else This Night in the NBA Destruction, Chaos and Cardboard: Welcome to Boxwars 'We Came Up in the Struggle’: NBA’s Zach Randolph Gives $20K to Keep Lights On Incredible Athlete and Double Amputee Is Redefining Heavy Lifting Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Celebrate This Year's Oscar Nominees with the NBA's Best Actors Gridiron Heights Episode 20: Roger Goodell Hosts the Griddies Westbrook Scores Game-Winner and Earns Another Triple-Double to Defeat Jazz Meet the College Basketball Coach with Dozens of Handshakes and Unlimited Swag Simms in 60: Brady's Brilliance Has Made NE Unstoppable Force Heading into SB51 Barack Obama: Fan of the Game How 15-Year-Old LaMelo Ball Is Making Half-Court Pull-Ups the New 3-Pointer Don't Get Caught: Meet Awesome Athletes Living Their Dreams in World Chase Tag Who Should Star in the Remake of 'White Men Can’t Jump'? The Greek Freak vs. the Beard: Harden and Giannis Face Off in Houston Revisiting the Best Moments from Championship Teams Visiting President Obama Week 19 Episode of Gridiron Heights Why Are Tyson, Mayweather Training Chris Brown and Soulja Boy for Boxing Match? Former NFL Star Warrick Dunn Built Deshaun Watson's Childhood Home How Rodgers and Cobb Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Wild Card Weekend Gridiron Heights, Ep. 18: Giants and Justin Beiber Are on a Boat Simms in 60: Nothing Is More Frustrating Than Inconsistent NFL Playoff Referees The Real Story Behind This Husky Ninja's Jaw-Dropping Parkour Giannis vs. Porzingis: Battle of the International Unicorns 16-Year-Old Dunking Phenom Zion Williamson Is Not Done Blowing Up Your Timeline Why Rodgers vs. Giants Defense Will Be the Best Matchup of Wild Card Weekend How Tom Brady and Julian Edelman Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Week 17 Lane Kiffin Saga Continues: CFB's Biggest Lightning Rod Keeps Burning Bridges Denied a Chance to Compete in College, This Runner Found a Way to Strike Gold Gridiron Heights, Ep. 17: Von, Cam Watch Trailer for “Playoffs: the Movie" Predicting 2017 Pro Football Hall of Fame Finalists Chris Simms' NFL Power Rankings for Week 17 Gridiron Heights, Episode 15: Christmas Special These Custom Nikes Raised $1.2M for the Doernbecher Children's Hospital Josh Norman Looks to Use His $75M Contract on a New D.C. Area Mansion Rest in Peace, Craig Sager: Paying Tribute to a Legendary NBA Sideline Reporter James Harden Is an Assassin: the Beard Makes His Case for NBA MVP Eddie George Surprises Buckeye Commit with Gatorade Player of the Year Award Simms in 60: Time to End Hypocritical Money Grab Called Thursday Night Football Cubs Star Kyle Schwarber Gives 10-Year-Old Fan Big Surprise with Batmobile Ride Packers Fan's Last Wish Comes True Malik Jackson Shows Off His Killer Beach Home with Incredible Views Meet Harrison Browne, the Transgender Athlete Who Is Redefining the Game Gridiron Heights, Ep. 14: Patriots Fight Cowboys Rebellion for 'Rogue One' Seats 2016: The Year of Cristiano Ronaldo MMA Contender Tim Kennedy: Green Beret and Top of ISIS Hit List Welcome to College Football's Largest Bowl Game Everything You Need to Know About College Football Bowl Season 2016 in 60 Seconds LeBron vs. Melo: the Rivalry Continues Between Superstar Friends Gridiron Heights Week 13 Sunday in 60: Matt Ryan Is About to Throw Away the Atlanta Falcons' Season LeBron vs. Wade: Legendary Heat Teammates Face Off in Hometown Clash Simms in 60: It's Time for NFL to Change 'Backwards' Medical Marijuana Policy Devonta Freeman's Stunning Mural Honors Atlanta & Cleat Week Larry Fitzgerald Unveils Epic Nike Spikes for B/R Cleat Week Gridiron Heights, Episode 12: The NFL Tries to Survive in "Planet Gridiron" Athlete Adventurer Ross Edgley Completes Triathlon Carrying a 100-Pound Tree Gridiron Heights, Episode 11: the Stars Give Thanks at Jerry Jones' Table This Thanksgiving Simms in 60: No One Deserves MVP Award More Than Oakland Raiders' QB Derek Carr Meet Joe Thomas Sr.: the 55-Year-Old Rudy Best Start Since Jordan: Relive DeMar Derozan's Historic Opening Weeks Simms' Hidden Truth: NFL's Top Offenses Turning Back Clock to Old-School Attack Chris Simms' Week 10 NFL Sunday Awards Gridiron Heights, Ep. 10: The Raiders Are Crashing the AFC Elites Party Gridiron Heights, Episode 9: Tom Brady, Roger Goodell Run for Mayor on Election Day AD vs. Boogie: Which Big Man Will America Choose? Sunday in 60: Dallas Cowboys Belong with New England Patriots in NFL's Top Tier The Hype: No. 1 Alabama Hopes to Keep Hopes Alive vs. Rival No. 13 LSU KD vs. Russ, Round 1: The NBA's Newest Rivalry Begins Tonight Watch No. 1 Recruit Najee Harris Star in 'Stranger Things' Inspired Trailer Fact or Fiction for Pro Football Hall of Fame Class of 2017 Stephen Curry and Kevin Durant to Go Head-to-Head in Exclusive Game of P-I-G Durant, Curry to Compete in Game of P-I-G Exclusively on B/R Gridiron Heights, Episode 8: An Unexpected Guest Crashes the Wilson's Baby Shower How Derek Carr and Seth Roberts Connected for the Biggest Play of NFL Week 8 Insider Buzz: Increasingly Likely Cowboys Stick with Dak in the Long-Term The Next Adrian Peterson? Najee Harris Breaks 7 Tackles on Beast-Mode TD Run Gridiron Heights, Episode 7: A Rookie Monster Has Players Scared in Town Everything You Need to Know About College Football Week 9 in 60 Seconds Gridiron Heights: Cam, Von Miller Make Up, Tom Brady Escapes from Goodell’s Dog House

The louder critics will point to the academic scandal that has been a black eye to the university.

Athletes took what were essentially fake classes, and that's a bad look for the school and athletic programs.

But I believe Williams when he has said he did not know about what was going on.

Roy Williams is as pure a coach in this industry that you will find. Consider me naive if you'd like, but I think Williams wants to win clean.

"Obviously it’s bothered him because integrity has been the thing he’s valued the most in his whole career," McGrath said. "And he’s never tried to do anything purposely wrong. He’s never tried to break a rule. We follow the rules like you can’t believe. It’s a joke."

Behind all the folksiness and dadgums is a sincerity. That is just ol' Roy. He might be cheesy. But there's nothing fake about him. It is not an act.

"He doesn’t say what he says in the press conference and then come in here and F-bomb everybody and say ‘I’m the reason we’re so successful,’" McGrath said. "Whatever you see out there is exactly what you see if it’s just me and him."

Whether you like him or not, all that should matter is the results.

And the results say no coach has been better in the modern era. The results say he's one of the all-time greats.

Popularity contests be damned, dadgummit.

Ol' Roy is a legend.

C.J. Moore covers college basketball and football for Bleacher Report. You can follow him on Twitter: @CJMooreBR. Advanced stats provided by KenPom.com unless otherwise noted. Recruit info provided by Scout.com.