19 Ridiculously Clever Products That Will Level Up Your Meal Prep
19 Products That Will Seriously Up Your Meal Prep Game
"I am often cooking two to four items at once and this timer rules! It is very easy to use and the alarm sound is loud. It has two magnets on the back to hold it in place on metal surfaces. One other note, if you are not around when the alarm sounds, you also will know how long you have gone over your time limit as it starts counting (a new count) when it is beeping to alert you." — Laus Deo Get it on Amazon for $9.88 .                                   "These knives make a great set. They are very sharp. The illustration on each is very helpful when choosing the appropriate tools for cutting different foods." — GraduationGirl Get them from Macy's for $16.99 (cutting boards) and $22.99 (knives).                                   "These are fantastic in the oven. No messy pans to scrub, fresh veggies roast really nicely on these without oil." — A typical family Get the combo pack on Amazon for $20.99 .                                   "There are so many people who say they can't cook, but I swear I'm on a whole new level of not being able to cook. This little appliance helps expand our menu and I have learned to do so much with it. I will sum up in a nutshell: I love how easy it is and how I throw everything in it and it comes out done. No stirring and not many messy dishes. I seriously can't believe how many foods can be cooked in here!" — Aundrea Get it on Amazon for $99 .                                   "I'm a kitchen gadget fiend and freely admit it. There are some items that I buy and then realize they aren't as useful as I thought they would be. Others become indispensable. This blender definitely falls in that category! I've had it for eight years and it's still working as beautifully as it did on day one." — kemilie Get it on Amazon for $31.99.                                   "This thing is great! It is so much more convenient than pouring everything in a strainer and it takes up less space in the dishwasher. Plus, it stays in place and doesn't slip — I was worried it would fall off, but it stayed right where I clipped it even draining three large potatoes. Highly recommended!" — Brandy Get it on Amazon for $3.99.                                   "This is the easiest home kitchen appliance I have! I am watching what I eat and so I steam almost all of my vegetables. All I do is dump them in and turn it on! It's great for heating up the frozen chicken breast strips. Keeps them moist instead of drying them out in the microwave." — Tanya Get it on Amazon for $19 .                                   "This is really misnamed. It does rice, polenta, quinoa, brown rice, etc. Just look at it as a Microwave Multi-cooker." — Mocha's mom Get it on Amazon for $11.80 .                                   "I have been using Popit! containers for over six months now and I can say that they are truly the best. They are very sturdy, leak-proof, and affordable. I have used many different types of containers in the past and these containers have beaten those products hands down." — proxenmity Get the 12-pack on Amazon for $19.99 .                                   "Love my herb scissors. Much easier to get a neat yet fine chop using these scissors as opposed to chopping with a knife. My kitchen is full, so in order to add a new item it's really got to earn it's space in the drawer/cabinet. These scissors are definitely worth their space." — YoMama Get them on Amazon for $9.99 .                                   "I have used it quite a few times already for everything from meat to vegetables to cheese. It enables me to buy items in bulk and freeze smaller portions without worrying about freezer burn. It works especially good for veggies like broccoli and green beans where it is next to impossible to get all the air out using a regular freezer bag. It takes all the air out and the vegetables remain fresh and bright colored." — B Bard Get it on Amazon for $185.92 .                                   "Great for portioning your food for meal prepping. Please note, these are NOT something you would typically use for storing food. Some of the containers are quite small. They are only for portion controlling. And for that use, they are PERFECT. I originally was just using measuring cups to get the same effect, but having these containers have been a great time saver." — Amanda Morgan Get the set on Amazon for $9.95 .                                   "This salad bowl works like magic. It is so convenient and fast for me to make salad in a few minutes. And no need for me to wash so many dishes or bowls. The product is very excellent." — Amazon Customer Get it on Amazon for $16.99 .                                   "This is a super well-made, thick useful cutting board that has some good weight to it and you can't help but love that it includes conversions. Really happy with this purchase overall!" — jillysw Get it from Crate & Barrel for $29.95 .                                   "This is a hidden gem that more people need to know about. We've recently returned to eating natural peanut butter after we read all of the nasty ingredients in regular peanut butter. Stirring the separated peanut butter/peanut oil was a bit of a challenge, and quite messy, until we came across this stirrer. It works like a charm without a mess! I wish we would have found this sooner. Fantastic product! We highly recommend it to anyone who is seeking an easier way to stir natural peanut butter in the jar." — Mrs. Robin Get it on Amazon for $9.95 .                                   "If I am taking the time to make homemade salad dressing, I wanted a container that would hold enough dressing for a few days. I was concerned about leakage when shaking the container, since I did not want salad dressing all over me or my kitchen. But NOT A DROP escaped!" — MRP Get it on Amazon for $14.95 .                                   "I have been getting very serious about meal prepping. At 33 years old I finally figured out how much easier it makes my life and how much easier it is to be healthy. I systematically go day by day, writing down what meal we're having and then checking off any additional ingredients I need for it. That way when I get to the store I'm not frantically looking on Pinterest for what I need or just guessing and not having the right stuff. This has helped save me a lot of money by not having a ton of extra stuff that gets wasted." — Aundrea Get it on Amazon for $7 .                                   "I was a complete skeptic before using an egg cooker. Eggs aren't hard to boil! I was so, so wrong to dismiss it. It is now one of my most used gadgets and has made me more of an egg fanatic. Yes, boiling eggs isn't difficult. However, with this device, I can not only make them quickly with essentially no cleanup, but get them exactly right every time." — Nerd Alert Get it on Amazon for $19.99 .                                   "I have no idea how to express how much I love these silicone pans! This makes life so much easier in the kitchen. I didn't have to worry about clean up either as it wipes completely clean! I am amazed and thrilled that I no longer have to pull out yet another rusted pan from the dishwasher after just one use." — Terra Dawn Get it on Amazon for $9.99 .

Most promising review: "I am often cooking two to four items at once and this timer rules! It is very easy to use and the alarm sound is loud. It has two magnets on the back to hold it in place on metal surfaces.

One other note, if you are not around when the alarm sounds, you also will know how long you have gone over your time limit as it starts counting (a new count) when it is beeping to alert you." —Laus Deo

Get it on Amazon for $9.88.