Reserve Bank stuck between rock and a hard place on interest rates



Reserve Bank stuck between rock and a hard place on interest rates

Posted

Don't expect any movement in official interest rates for the foreseeable future, for the Reserve Bank has found itself trapped.

Concerned by a deterioration in the jobs market, it would dearly love to chisel off another quarter of a percentage point in official rates.

That, however, would only add fuel to an already flaming hot eastern states property market that in the past year has belligerently cast aside any attempt to come to heel.

The statement that accompanied today's decision to keep rates on hold — the eighth month in succession — contained the usual bland language for which central bankers are renowned.

It is a language of observation rather than comment, devoid of colour and emotion. But it is fair to say that issues are only ever raised if they are of concern or at least noteworthy.

When it comes to jobs, higher unemployment and modest jobs growth were mentioned, a step up in the rhetoric from last month. Clearly a worry.

But it was housing, the topic du jour, where the statement really got down to business.

This time last year, the RBA was in total denial about the rapidly inflating east coast housing market, underway at that time for three years, despite huge price rises, and near record auction clearance rates.

There are no such delusions now. And it today laid out the conundrum it is facing.

Property prices are rocketing with rises of 19 per cent in Sydney and 16 per cent in Melbourne, along with solid gains in Hobart and Canberra, mostly driven by investors. It would dearly love to bring that under control, to stop household debt soaring in the stratosphere; debt that is far outpacing income growth.

In ordinary times, it would lift rates a notch, perhaps even two.

But there is a huge supply of units, estimated at around 150,000, about to hit the market within the next year or so.

Should the Reserve Bank choke off that investor demand, the apartment glut could trigger big price falls. That may help solve the affordability problem, but the fallout from a serious property market slump would tip us into recession.

There has probably never been a more difficult period to be Reserve Bank governor, something Phillip Lowe now must be acutely aware.

These are extraordinary times. It is now increasingly obvious that all the regulators — the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Reserve Bank of Australia — are now furiously working in tandem behind the scenes to cool investor lending.

So far, it hasn't worked. That's prompted the ASIC boss Greg Medcraft, who openly calls eastern states housing a bubble, to go on the front foot, warning about the perils of poor lending standards.

That from a man who had a front row view of the American property market meltdown that caused the Global Financial Crisis.

In the interim, the RBA is content to let the commercial banks do the heavy lifting, to pull back on property investor loans, although not too hard.

The banks aren't complaining. After being told to restrict lending, they've now been given carte blanche to raise investor home loan rates out of the Reserve Bank cycle. And they're loving it. They've boosted margins, earnings momentum is back on track.

They profited hugely by inflating the boom. Now they're making hay by helping rein it in.

Topics: money-and-monetary-policy, economic-trends, housing-industry, australia