Kyrgyzstan authorities identify suspect in Russia subway bombing
Kyrgyzstan authorities identify suspect in Russia subway bombing 
Shares               The suspect in a blast that killed 14 and injured more than 40 in a St. Petersburg, Russia, subway station on Monday has been identified by authorities as a Kyrgyz-born Russian citizen, a senior intelligence official confirms to ABC News. GKNB security service has identified the suspected attacker as Akbarjon Djalilov, a Kyrgyz-born Russian citizen born in his early 20s, according to Rahat Sulaimanov, a senior Kyrgyz intelligence official. "Kyrgyz GKNB and Russian FSB work very closely, but in this case, all other info will come out of Moscow, as Djalilov is a Russian citizen only," Sulaimanov said. He said he could not specify if the attack was a suicide bombing. "Even though the suspect lived in Russia in recent years, he probably still has plenty of relatives in Osh," Sulaimanov added, referring to the suspect's hometown in Kyrgyzstan . Sulaimanov would not share any pictures of the suspect, but he noted that they were available on online. Investigators have not released many details about the bombing, but a Kremlin spokesperson told Russia's state-run news agency, TASS, that investigators had not confirmed that the attack was a suicide bombing. World leaders, including President Donald Trump , rallied behind Russia on Monday to condemn the attack. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said bombing showed the need for joint efforts against global terrorism . "This tragedy in St. Petersburg once again shows the importance of stepping up joint efforts to combat this evil," Lavrov said, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti. The blast, which took place at 2:40 p.m. local time, happened between the Sennaya Ploshad station and the Technological Institute station. Russia's health minister on Tuesday revised the death toll up to 14 from 11 and said 49 people were still hospitalized as a result of the blast. Authorities in Russia declared three days of mourning beginning Tuesday.   Shares                  Kyrgyzstan authorities identify suspect in Russia subway bombing   VA defending work to fix troubled veteran suicide hotline   Boeing Co. says it signed new $3B deal with Iranian airline   Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon visits California   Trump admin cuts off UN agency's funds over abortion concern   Man killed after mobile home flips as storms batter the South   2 survive after plane crashes at Olympic National Park   NHL ices Olympics, says no to 2018 Games in South Korea   3 dead after boiler explosion   Trump says US is 'great friend and ally' to controversial Egyptian President el-Sissi   3 tiger cubs destined for zoo in Syria rescued in Lebanon   Shark swims up to Melbourne beachgoers   Volunteer baby rockers soothe hospitalized infants   Police dog shows fastest way to capture a suspect   Tearful reunion between a boy and his neighbor's dog after a year apart   JK Rowling gives 'words of wisdom' to emerging writers   Olivia Wilde to make her Broadway debut in play of '1984'   Centennial of US entrance into WWI lures visitors to museum   Pa. couple pranks mailman with extra-long envelope   Thompson loses ANA Inspiration after day-old penalty   Twin toddlers re-enact their favorite scene from 'Frozen'   London attack victim stands on her own after broken leg   Lawmakers fail to override veto of Medicaid expansion   Mississippi LGBT religious objections law argued on appeal   Don't look for Congress to quickly pass overhaul of tax code   Trump plugs away at his central goal: undoing Obama's work   Homeowner arrested after killing intruder in his shower: Police   Japan envoy recalled over statue flap to return to S. Korea   Protests rattle Ecuador following election fraud claims   Cosby prosecutors press to use drug testimony   Deal transfers Charleston church shooter to federal custody   Death toll rises to 273 as aid begins to arrive in disaster-struck Colombia   Doris Day and 7 other celebrities in their 90s   Alec Baldwin opens up about addiction in new memoir   Alex Rodriguez and Jennifer Lopez hang out in hometown NYC

The suspect in a blast that killed 14 and injured more than 40 in a St. Petersburg, Russia, subway station on Monday has been identified by authorities as a Kyrgyz-born Russian citizen, a senior intelligence official confirms to ABC News.

GKNB security service has identified the suspected attacker as Akbarjon Djalilov, a Kyrgyz-born Russian citizen born in his early 20s, according to Rahat Sulaimanov, a senior Kyrgyz intelligence official.

"Kyrgyz GKNB and Russian FSB work very closely, but in this case, all other info will come out of Moscow, as Djalilov is a Russian citizen only," Sulaimanov said.

He said he could not specify if the attack was a suicide bombing.

"Even though the suspect lived in Russia in recent years, he probably still has plenty of relatives in Osh," Sulaimanov added, referring to the suspect's hometown in Kyrgyzstan.

Sulaimanov would not share any pictures of the suspect, but he noted that they were available on online.

Investigators have not released many details about the bombing, but a Kremlin spokesperson told Russia's state-run news agency, TASS, that investigators had not confirmed that the attack was a suicide bombing.

World leaders, including President Donald Trump, rallied behind Russia on Monday to condemn the attack.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said bombing showed the need for joint efforts against global terrorism.

"This tragedy in St. Petersburg once again shows the importance of stepping up joint efforts to combat this evil," Lavrov said, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.

The blast, which took place at 2:40 p.m. local time, happened between the Sennaya Ploshad station and the Technological Institute station.

Russia's health minister on Tuesday revised the death toll up to 14 from 11 and said 49 people were still hospitalized as a result of the blast.

Authorities in Russia declared three days of mourning beginning Tuesday.

ABC News' Dada Jovanovic and Joe Simonetti contributed to this report.