9 Products Your Vagina Will Love
9 Products Your Vagina Will Love
We hope you love the products we recommend! Just so you know, BuzzFeed may collect a share of sales from the links on this page.      "The Hitachi Magic Wand has given me the most intense orgasm of my life." — Ltodd5122 Get it on Love Honey, £40.00                                   "When I have my period, I only wear Always Infinity. They are made out of what seems like memory foam, so they conform to the shape of your body really well, and you can't feel them until they fill up, which claims to be 10x their weight. Unless your have an especially heavy flow, the same pad works all day, without making you feel like you are wearing a small diaper" — m31i  Get it at Boots, £3.15 .    "This stuff is the shit! I used to get horrible razor burn every time I shaved, not cute! I tried fucking everything to make it stop or go away and nothing worked till I found this stuff! Fucking miracle worker! Burns a little but it clears up any ingrown hairs or razor burn right away! I can't recommend it enough!" — jackieh48a648bdf Get it on Amazon, £9.92 .    I learned so much from about my own anatomy like issues that can arise, how it works and how to take care of it."— shleegeered  Get it on Amazon, £4.72 .    "They are seriously the best thing I've purchased in a while. I had a baby 8 months ago and while my Diva cup catches almost everything, almost is not good enough at work. With this underwear I don't have to worry about leaks, and toward the end of my period I don't need anything else at all. I still feel totally dry and comfortable all day. I don't know how they did it, but they work!" — Sally47263 Get them on Thinx, £27.23 .    "I have ridiculously heavy periods and regular tampons are uncomfortable to wear, but I've found that Playtex Sport Super tampons (and let's be real the most active thing I do during my period is sob as I rewatch every Tom Hanks/Meg Ryan movie), are super comfortable to wear and actually absorb all the blood trying to escape my body. They're a little wider than regular tampons but not as tall, which I think makes all the difference." — kaleep43bdb1b45 Get them on Amazon, £7.27 .    "My LilyCup is the best thing I've purchased for my vagina. I've never felt so clean during a period, and I don't feel it in there either. Just empty it every few hours depending on your flow. I don't even need a pantyliner because it keeps everything in. And I got the LilyCup because it can be compacted into a tiny carrier and taken around. They also have different sizes for different flows, and different cups based on if you've given birth vaginally or via c-section. It can be messy, but way worth it." — cmbp Get it on Inimina, £33.93 .                                   "My husband and I bought the We Vibe when it first came out on the market during our honeymoon. Best investment of our marriage. Sadly it broke within a few weeks due to poor design with the charging feature. We went ahead and splurged again on the new and improved We Vibe about three years ago. I can't sing enough praises about this product. I can use it by myself or combined with another toy but most importantly we can use it together and we both love it. It's one of those things we don't forget to pack when going on vacation, ranks right up there with toothbrush. I know these are pretty expensive but if you time it right you can get one on ebay for a lot less." Get it on Love Honey, £79.99 .                                   "Usually two weeks after my period, acne tends to form around the vulva or it gets itchy and irritated from disposable liners. But since switching to organic cotton liners, I've had no acne forming/pains or discomfort, and it absorbs the discharge well. Might need to do some searching online to get ones right for your comfort but overall they saved me so much money and trouble." — lilisamurai  Get them on Amazon, £1.79 .

"My husband and I bought the We Vibe when it first came out on the market during our honeymoon. Best investment of our marriage. Sadly it broke within a few weeks due to poor design with the charging feature. We went ahead and splurged again on the new and improved We Vibe about three years ago. I can't sing enough praises about this product. I can use it by myself or combined with another toy but most importantly we can use it together and we both love it. It's one of those things we don't forget to pack when going on vacation, ranks right up there with toothbrush. I know these are pretty expensive but if you time it right you can get one on ebay for a lot less."

Get it on Love Honey, £79.99.