‘Prison Break’: 5 Things to Know Before Season 5
‘Prison Break’: 5 Things to Know Before Season 5
Escaping from prison is the easy part — what comes next is so much harder. For four seasons, captivated viewers with intricate plotting, jaw-dropping cliffhangers, morally corrupt but fascinating characters, and the tantalizing promise of an audacious, successful escape. Now, eight years after the series ended, it returns for a fifth season on Fox — but this time, the stakes are even higher. As our catch-up video notes, Michael Scofield (Wentworth Miller) supposedly died, sacrificing himself to help wife Sara (Sarah Wayne Callies) escape prison. He did it because he was already preparing to die from a brain tumor — but when Season 5 opens, he’s still … somehow … alive. “ Michael sacrificed himself to give Sara a better life, which she will now have to grapple with. “W And if they ever reunite? Well, not only have seven years passed, and Sara gotten married, but Sara and Michael’s relationship was never … uh, conventional. “They never even went on a date!” Callies says. There’s no time like the present! • Spring TV Preview 2017: Get the Scoop on 24 New and Returning Shows • ‘The Walking Dead’ Season 7 Finale Recap: The Casualty of War • Is Bill O’Reilly Going to Lose His Job?

Escaping from prison is the easy part — what comes next is so much harder.

For four seasons, Prison Break captivated viewers with intricate plotting, jaw-dropping cliffhangers, morally corrupt but fascinating characters, and the tantalizing promise of an audacious, successful escape. Now, eight years after the series ended, it returns for a fifth season on Fox — but this time, the stakes are even higher.

As our catch-up video notes, Michael Scofield (Wentworth Miller) supposedly died, sacrificing himself to help wife Sara (Sarah Wayne Callies) escape prison. He did it because he was already preparing to die from a brain tumor — but when Season 5 opens, he’s still … somehow … alive.

“There’s a whole new set of stakes for both Sara and Michael, which is that it’s not about us anymore, it’s about this kid,” Callies tells us about the revival. And when she references “this kid,” she means Sara and Michael’s child, who’s now a pre-teen.

Michael sacrificed himself to give Sara a better life, which she will now have to grapple with. “What she had to do at a certain point was make the decision to honor her husband’s memory by raising their son with all of the love and education and care that Michael and Lincoln themselves never got. And part of that was creating a stable home,” Callies says.

And if they ever reunite? Well, not only have seven years passed, and Sara gotten married, but Sara and Michael’s relationship was never … uh, conventional.

“They never even went on a date!” Callies says.

There’s no time like the present!

Prison Break Season 5 premieres Tuesday, April 4, at 9 p.m. on Fox.

Read more from Yahoo TV:

•Spring TV Preview 2017: Get the Scoop on 24 New and Returning Shows

•‘The Walking Dead’ Season 7 Finale Recap: The Casualty of War

•Is Bill O’Reilly Going to Lose His Job?