On Equal Pay Day, Sheryl Sandberg Unveils Latest Lean In Mission: Closing Gender Gap
On Equal Pay Day, Sheryl Sandberg Unveils Latest Lean In Mission: Closing Gender Gap
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Clare O'Connor       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Emma McIntyre/Getty Images for AOL RANCHO PALOS VERDES, CA - FEBRUARY 07: Chief Operating Officer, Facebook Sheryl Sandberg speaks onstage during The 2017 MAKERS Conference Day 2 at Terranea Resort on February 7, 2017 in Rancho Palos Verdes, California. First, there was #BanBossy, backed by the likes of Beyonce, aimed at encouraging young girls to be assertive -- and to ignore a gendered word used to stigmatize women leaders. Then there was #LeanInTogether, an Emma Watson-approved attempt to convince men to join women in the fight for gender equality. Now, on April 4th -- Equal Pay Day -- Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg's nonprofit LeanIn.Org has launched its latest high-profile campaign, this time with the backing of women-friendly businesses like Salesforce and Lyft and a social media assist from Funny or Die and Hulu. #20PercentCounts highlights that women are, on average, paid 20% less than men in the U.S.; that statistic is worse for black women (37% less) and Hispanic women (46% less). As a result, families and the economy suffer, as new data commissioned by LeanIn.Org from the Institute for Women's Policy Research shows. For instance, closing the pay gap would lift 3.1 million working women and their families out of poverty. It'd add more than half a trillion dollars in new income each year to the U.S. economy. And the average woman would make $530,000 more in the course of her career. Starting on April 4th, hundreds of companies from coast to coast , from local coffee shops to international conglomerates, will be offering 20% discounts to draw attention to the impact of wage disparity. Salesforce, a leader in promoting gender equity in the sexist tech community, made a donation towards the cost of #20PercentCounts in-store signage, online advertising, and events for the participating companies. Deals include 20% off Luna energy bars through April 11 on its website, with the company -- cofounded by one of America's richest self-made women, Kit Crawford -- making a matching donation up to $100,000 to fund salary negotiation workshops for women. Lyft, which has benefited from terrible press about competitor Uber's anti-women culture, will donate 20% of ride fares on April 4th to organizations that serve women and families. Entertainment platforms Funny or Die and Hulu have also gotten in on the act, producing a video that illustrates the absurdity of the pay gap . It'll be given prominence on both companies' websites. A full list of discounts and other initiatives can be seen on LeanIn.Org. The idea grew out of one of LeanIn.Org's community peer groups, or 'circles', as they're called. Since the publication of Sandberg's 2013 corporate feminist manifesto, the nonprofit has grown to include 32,000 of these women's groups in 150 countries. "A couple years ago our Lean In D.C. chapter went door to door to local businesses and asked them to give discounts commensurate with the pay gap," said Rachel Thomas, cofounder and president of LeanIn.Org. "We asked if they minded if we took it on the road." While the Trump administration rolls back protections for working women , Thomas and her team hope businesses will pick up some slack, prioritizing pay equity in spite of the current government's antagonism . Thomas urges businesses to follow the lead of Salesforce and conduct internal pay audits , making corrections to salaries if gender or race disparities are uncovered. "Equal pay is essential to the goal of gender equality," said Sandberg, one of America's few self-made women billionaires , in a statement on the launch. "This issue speaks to how we value women’s labor, knowledge, time, training, and so much more. In short, it’s about women’s worth. There’s nothing more fundamental than that." Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Emma McIntyre/Getty Images for AOL

First, there was #BanBossy, backed by the likes of Beyonce, aimed at encouraging young girls to be assertive -- and to ignore a gendered word used to stigmatize women leaders. Then there was #LeanInTogether, an Emma Watson-approved attempt to convince men to join women in the fight for gender equality.

Now, on April 4th -- Equal Pay Day -- Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg's nonprofit LeanIn.Org has launched its latest high-profile campaign, this time with the backing of women-friendly businesses like Salesforce and Lyft and a social media assist from Funny or Die and Hulu.

#20PercentCounts highlights that women are, on average, paid 20% less than men in the U.S.; that statistic is worse for black women (37% less) and Hispanic women (46% less). As a result, families and the economy suffer, as new data commissioned by LeanIn.Org from the Institute for Women's Policy Research shows.

For instance, closing the pay gap would lift 3.1 million working women and their families out of poverty. It'd add more than half a trillion dollars in new income each year to the U.S. economy. And the average woman would make $530,000 more in the course of her career.

Starting on April 4th, hundreds of companies from coast to coast, from local coffee shops to international conglomerates, will be offering 20% discounts to draw attention to the impact of wage disparity.

Salesforce, a leader in promoting gender equity in the sexist tech community, made a donation towards the cost of #20PercentCounts in-store signage, online advertising, and events for the participating companies.

Deals include 20% off Luna energy bars through April 11 on its website, with the company -- cofounded by one of America's richest self-made women, Kit Crawford -- making a matching donation up to $100,000 to fund salary negotiation workshops for women.

Lyft, which has benefited from terrible press about competitor Uber's anti-women culture, will donate 20% of ride fares on April 4th to organizations that serve women and families.

Entertainment platforms Funny or Die and Hulu have also gotten in on the act, producing a video that illustrates the absurdity of the pay gap. It'll be given prominence on both companies' websites.

A full list of discounts and other initiatives can be seen on LeanIn.Org.

The idea grew out of one of LeanIn.Org's community peer groups, or 'circles', as they're called. Since the publication of Sandberg's 2013 corporate feminist manifesto, the nonprofit has grown to include 32,000 of these women's groups in 150 countries.

"A couple years ago our Lean In D.C. chapter went door to door to local businesses and asked them to give discounts commensurate with the pay gap," said Rachel Thomas, cofounder and president of LeanIn.Org. "We asked if they minded if we took it on the road."

While the Trump administration rolls back protections for working women, Thomas and her team hope businesses will pick up some slack, prioritizing pay equity in spite of the current government's antagonism.

Thomas urges businesses to follow the lead of Salesforce and conduct internal pay audits, making corrections to salaries if gender or race disparities are uncovered.

"Equal pay is essential to the goal of gender equality," said Sandberg, one of America's few self-made women billionaires, in a statement on the launch. "This issue speaks to how we value women’s labor, knowledge, time, training, and so much more. In short, it’s about women’s worth. There’s nothing more fundamental than that."

Follow me on Twitter and Facebook. Listen to my Forbes Podcasts show Million$ here and subscribe on iTunes.