Boost for Manchester City as Gabriel Jesus makes early return to training

Manchester City have confirmed Gabriel Jesus is ready to resume light training as part of his return after a metatarsal fracture and Pep Guardiola is hopeful he might even return to playing before the end of the season. “He has just started running and walking on the pitch again,” the Manchester City manager said. “I don’t know exactly how many weeks he needs to come back but I think he is at the end of the healing part of the process. Hopefully he can help us in the games at the end of the season.” City face Chelsea on Wednesday night in their second visit to London in less than a week, the 2-2 draw at Arsenal on Sunday having shown once again that Guardiola’s side lack either the organisation or concentration to successfully defend a lead. Twice City went in front at the Emirates Stadium, twice they were pegged back, and though Guardiola’s introduction of Yaya Touré for Raheem Sterling at half-time seemed designed to help his side hold on to their 2-1 lead, it did not succeed and slowing the game appeared to work in Arsenal’s favour. “Every game is completely different but what I always like my teams to do is have the courage to play,” Guardiola said. “Sometimes we could do better but it is a process to improve and we are still in the process. “It is important to play big games like away to Chelsea to learn for the future, it will be a big test. There are a lot of things we can improve, the player, the coach, the way of playing, they way we are in the boxes. We want to be doing that now, trying to improve all the time. “Obviously we will be able to make changes to the squad in summer, and some changes will be necessary, but in summer every other club will be doing the same. We will discuss with the chairman and the bosses what we need at the end of the season, but in the meantime the players will decide for themselves through their performances on the pitch.” Guardiola is still haunted to an extent by the 3-1 home defeat Chelsea inflicted on his side at the Etihad Stadium in December, another occasion when City surrendered a lead and lost concentration to the point of ending up with only nine men on the pitch. “That game was very frustrating, because we played well and created unbelievable chances to go two or three up,” Guardiola said. “Chelsea have just dropped points in the league but they are a good team. They deserve to be where they are in the table.”  Manchester City   Pep Guardiola   news

• Brazilian has resumed light training following metatarsal fracture • Pep Guardiola says he ‘may be able to help us before end of season’

Manchester City have confirmed Gabriel Jesus is ready to resume light training as part of his return after a metatarsal fracture and Pep Guardiola is hopeful he might even return to playing before the end of the season.

“He has just started running and walking on the pitch again,” the Manchester City manager said. “I don’t know exactly how many weeks he needs to come back but I think he is at the end of the healing part of the process. Hopefully he can help us in the games at the end of the season.”

Manchester City’s Kevin De Bruyne offers fleeting sense of order in shapeless game | Michael Cox Read more

City face Chelsea on Wednesday night in their second visit to London in less than a week, the 2-2 draw at Arsenal on Sunday having shown once again that Guardiola’s side lack either the organisation or concentration to successfully defend a lead.

Twice City went in front at the Emirates Stadium, twice they were pegged back, and though Guardiola’s introduction of Yaya Touré for Raheem Sterling at half-time seemed designed to help his side hold on to their 2-1 lead, it did not succeed and slowing the game appeared to work in Arsenal’s favour.

“Every game is completely different but what I always like my teams to do is have the courage to play,” Guardiola said. “Sometimes we could do better but it is a process to improve and we are still in the process.

“It is important to play big games like away to Chelsea to learn for the future, it will be a big test. There are a lot of things we can improve, the player, the coach, the way of playing, they way we are in the boxes. We want to be doing that now, trying to improve all the time.

“Obviously we will be able to make changes to the squad in summer, and some changes will be necessary, but in summer every other club will be doing the same. We will discuss with the chairman and the bosses what we need at the end of the season, but in the meantime the players will decide for themselves through their performances on the pitch.”

Guardiola is still haunted to an extent by the 3-1 home defeat Chelsea inflicted on his side at the Etihad Stadium in December, another occasion when City surrendered a lead and lost concentration to the point of ending up with only nine men on the pitch.

“That game was very frustrating, because we played well and created unbelievable chances to go two or three up,” Guardiola said. “Chelsea have just dropped points in the league but they are a good team. They deserve to be where they are in the table.”