Well-wishers raise thousands for teenage asylum seeker attacked in Croydon
Well-wishers raise thousands for teenage asylum seeker attacked in Croydon
crowdfunding campaign has raised more than £28,000 for Reker Ahmed , the 17-year-old Kurdish Iranian who was subjected to what police described as a "brutal attack" in Croydon on Friday night. Ahmed was left for dead with a fractured spine, fractured eye socket and a bleed on his brain after police said he and two friends were singled out as refugees in a racially motivated attack. Police said the 17-year-old was set on at a south London bus stop when a small group of attackers was joined by 20 to 30 more. Bridey Watson who set up a JustGiving page to support the boy, initially set a fundraising target of £3,500. By Tuesday afternoon more than £29,000 had been donated by well-wishers. s Watson said: "The public is giving a clear message that this young man is welcomed, loved and supported in the UK. Your support lets him know that he’s not alone as he starts the long journey to overcome this horrific attack both physically and mentally. "Feeling valued and loved is a very basic need that we can all be part of, all of us have an opportunity to make a difference for this young man. This will go a long way to ensuring he sees the best after witnessing the very worst." A spokesperson for JustGiving said that, due to the boy's age and care status, donations will be held in a trust and either used to purchase goods for his recovery or released to him once his asylum claim is complete and he turns 18. n Monday, five people, including two sets of siblings, appeared in court charged with violent disorder following the incident. aryl Davis, 20, Danyelle Davis, 24, Barry Potts, 20, George Walder, 20, and Jack Walder, 24, all from Croydon, spoke only to confirm their names, dates of birth, and addresses during the short hearing. Six more people, including a 15-year-old schoolboy, were due to appear at Croydon Magistrates' Court on Tuesday. The group, aged between 15 and 22, have all been charged with violent disorder, while two, Ben Harman, 20, and a 17-year-old boy, have also charged with racially aggravated GBH. Liam Neylen, 19, Ellie Leite, 19, James Neves, 22, and a 15-year-old boy are the others accused by police on Tuesday of involvement with the attack.

A crowdfunding campaign has raised more than £28,000 for Reker Ahmed, the 17-year-old Kurdish Iranian who was subjected to what police described as a "brutal attack" in Croydon on Friday night.

Ahmed was left for dead with a fractured spine, fractured eye socket and a bleed on his brain after police said he and two friends were singled out as refugees in a racially motivated attack.

Police said the 17-year-old was set on at a south London bus stop when a small group of attackers was joined by 20 to 30 more.

Bridey Watson who set up a JustGiving page to support the boy, initially set a fundraising target of £3,500. By Tuesday afternoon more than £29,000 had been donated by well-wishers.