How to resist Trump 101: Harvard students launch new course for activists
How to resist Trump 101: Harvard students launch new course for activists
Students at the University of Harvard have created a four-week course to teach activists how to resist Donald Trump . The course, which is open to people across the country and the world, offers four in-person and-live streamed sessions. Sessions include talks on "how to mobilise and organise our communities" and "how to sustain the resistance long-term". "Resistance School is a free four session practical training program to sharpen the tools we need to fight for our values at the federal, state, and local levels," the school's website states . Read more EXCLUSIVE: leading US media figure attacks Trump's focus on Muslims Donald Trump rolls back protections for women in workplace Former Trump adviser ‘passed energy industry documents to Russian spy’ Trump signs bill that lets companies sell browsing histories "Our goal is to keep the embers of resistance alive through concrete learning, community engagement, and forward-looking action." The school "started with a couple of students chatting with a couple of professors, having a sense of outrage and despair and beginning to feel overwhelmed and exhausted with the question of 'What are we going to do after the election?'" Shanoor Seervai, a student at Harvard's Kennedy School and one of the Resistance School co-founders told CNN . The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images  It encourages people to enrol in groups rather than as individuals. "Some are coming with groups of 700 people, some are smaller groups, potlucks, gathering in people's kitchens," Ms Seervai added. It comes after a wake of protests across the US such as the Women's Marches and the March for Science . More about: Donald Trump harvard Comments

Students at the University of Harvard have created a four-week course to teach activists how to resist Donald Trump.

The course, which is open to people across the country and the world, offers four in-person and-live streamed sessions.

Sessions include talks on "how to mobilise and organise our communities" and "how to sustain the resistance long-term".

Donald Trump shakes hands with Egypt President El-Sisi and pledges support to his regime

"Resistance School is a free four session practical training program to sharpen the tools we need to fight for our values at the federal, state, and local levels," the school's website states.

"Our goal is to keep the embers of resistance alive through concrete learning, community engagement, and forward-looking action."

The school "started with a couple of students chatting with a couple of professors, having a sense of outrage and despair and beginning to feel overwhelmed and exhausted with the question of 'What are we going to do after the election?'" Shanoor Seervai, a student at Harvard's Kennedy School and one of the Resistance School co-founders told CNN.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







8 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued













1/8 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

2/8 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

3/8 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

4/8 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

5/8 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

6/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

7/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

8/8 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

It encourages people to enrol in groups rather than as individuals.

"Some are coming with groups of 700 people, some are smaller groups, potlucks, gathering in people's kitchens," Ms Seervai added.

It comes after a wake of protests across the US such as the Women's Marches and the March for Science.