Magic's Apparent Offseason Trade Targets Leaked in Tweet
Magic's Apparent Offseason Trade Targets Leaked in Tweet
An unfortunate photo might have given away the Orlando Magic 's offseason plans. The Magic signed Argentine wing Patricio Garino Monday, which his representative Carlos Prunes commemorated in a Tweet showing the player signing his contract. The twist is that behind him in the photo is a whiteboard with a list of names. The Score provided a look at the since-deleted image: UMM...did Orlando Magic just leak their targets for trades and free agency?? 🤔 https://t.co/k9bAKImJKK https://t.co/zXoNNHzOWB Uproxx created a zoomed-in view of the whiteboard, via Cody Taylor of Basketball Insiders: Here's the picture in question that was posted by someone close to Patricio Garino after he signed with the Magic today (via @UPROXX): https://t.co/8UOwuEnUO1 The list includes numerous forwards the team could target either through free agency or a trade, including Paul Millsap and Andre Iguodala . Perhaps the most interesting note could be the reference to Dario Saric, the Philadelphia 76ers forward who is a top contender for the Rookie of the Year award. After his name reads "for AG?," which could signal a trade involving Aaron Gordon. While this is mostly speculation, the Magic probably would do well to take an aggressive approach like this in the offseason to improve the roster after missing the playoffs for the fifth straight season. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Fernando Medina/Getty Images

An unfortunate photo might have given away the Orlando Magic's offseason plans.

The Magic signed Argentine wing Patricio Garino Monday, which his representative Carlos Prunes commemorated in a Tweet showing the player signing his contract. The twist is that behind him in the photo is a whiteboard with a list of names.

The Score provided a look at the since-deleted image:

Uproxx created a zoomed-in view of the whiteboard, via Cody Taylor of Basketball Insiders:

The list includes numerous forwards the team could target either through free agency or a trade, including Paul Millsap and Andre Iguodala.

Perhaps the most interesting note could be the reference to Dario Saric, the Philadelphia 76ers forward who is a top contender for the Rookie of the Year award. After his name reads "for AG?," which could signal a trade involving Aaron Gordon.

While this is mostly speculation, the Magic probably would do well to take an aggressive approach like this in the offseason to improve the roster after missing the playoffs for the fifth straight season.