Susan Rice says it's 'absolutely false' Obama officials unmasked names for political purposes
Susan Rice says it's 'absolutely false' Obama officials unmasked names for political purposes
Shares               Former national security adviser Susan Rice says it's "absolutely false" that Obama administration officials unmasked names of associates of President Donald Trump 's campaign for political purposes. "I leaked nothing to nobody," she told MSNBC on Tuesday afternoon. "If I saw an intelligence report that looked potentially significant ... I can make that request," Rice added of unveiling names of American citizens in intelligence reports. "That's necessary for me to do my job." Bloomberg and Fox News reported this week that Rice had requested the names of Trump transition officials be unveiled in classified intelligence reports about foreign citizens. Rice added that unmasking a name in an intelligence report only revealed the name to the person who requested it -- and could not be compared to leaking the name to others broadly in the U.S. government. "There is no equivalence between so-called unmasking and leaking," she said. "There were occasions when I would receive a report in which a U.S. person was referred to -- name not provided -- just U.S. person. And sometimes, in that context, in order to understand the importance of the report, and assess its significance, it was necessary to find out, or request, the information as to who the U.S. official was," Rice said. "The intelligence community made the determination as to whether or not the identity of that American individual could be provided to me." A former national security official close Rice would not deny to ABC News that during the course of her official duties the former national security adviser may have unmasked officials connected to the Trump transition team and campaign, but insisted that she would have never done so improperly. “I’m not denying that she routinely requested the unmasking of individuals,” the source close to Rice said, adding that any instance of unmasking would have been necessary to understand the value of the intelligence being presented to her. House Intelligence Committee Chair Rep. Devin Nunes, R-California, previously said he was concerned that former Trump campaign associates were named in intelligence documents about the federal government's investigation into Russia's meddling in the 2016 election. Nunes said the classified documents show Trump associates may have been incidentally surveilled, but the Democratic ranking member Rep. Adam Schiff, D-California, said he does not agree with that assessment. "To talk about the individuals on the foreign side, who were the targets of the report itself, or any Americans who may have collected upon incidentally -- is to disclose classified information. I'm not going to do that," Rice said, saying that giving details about classified reports is "very wrong." “When it is necessary to unmask a name to understand the significance of the communication, there is a process for doing so, which is also lawful. Our committee routinely reviews whether our intelligence agencies are properly masking names and unmasking them as appropriate," Schiff said in a statement on Tuesday. “Some incidental collection is unavoidable, and as long as proper procedures are being followed, it is fully lawful. It does not constitute either wiretapping or surveillance of Americans." White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday the reports were concerning. “There is a civil liberties component to this that should be very troubling,” Spicer said. "So the question is, why was someone unmasked if that's the case? I believe there are more questions than answers at this point." President Trump tweeted a month ago that former President Barack Obama wiretapped Trump Tower during the 2016 campaign. The bipartisan leaders of both chambers of Congress, both congressional intelligence panels and top current and former intelligence officials have said there's no evidence to support that. Rice added she was "shocked" at Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping allegations, saying they are "absolutely false" and have "no basis in fact."  Shares                  Susan Rice says it's 'absolutely false' Obama officials unmasked names for political purposes   Ryan encouraged by new GOP health care talks, won't set timeline for vote   Trump campaign adviser Carter Page targeted for recruitment by Russian spies   Why DOJ’s new review of police agreements matters   Chelsea Clinton doesn't rule out her mom running for public office again   What's next in the fight over Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch   'Young Turk' online news host attempting a 'hostile takeover' of Democratic Party   The Note: Kushner’s rising profile   White House, Republicans trying to revive Obamacare repeal in new talks   Trump says US is 'great friend and ally' to controversial Egyptian President el-Sissi   The nuclear option Republicans can use to confirm Neil Gorsuch   Judge Neil Gorsuch: What to know about the SCOTUS nominee   White House blames Obama admin for suspected Syria chemical attack   NCAA satisfied with North Carolina 'bathroom bill' replacement   Lawyer 'targeted' in broad daylight killing, police say   Trump says he'll only fund shovel-ready infrastructure jobs   Firefighters honor family that returned lost wallet   Giant panda Tian Tian dangles while climbing tree   Golden retriever catches taco full of spaghetti in midair   3 tiger cubs destined for zoo in Syria rescued in Lebanon   Shark swims up to Melbourne beachgoers   Volunteer baby rockers soothe hospitalized infants   Police dog shows fastest way to capture a suspect   Tearful reunion between a boy and his neighbor's dog after a year apart   JK Rowling gives 'words of wisdom' to emerging writers   Olivia Wilde to make her Broadway debut in play of '1984'   Centennial of US entrance into WWI lures visitors to museum

Former national security adviser Susan Rice says it's "absolutely false" that Obama administration officials unmasked names of associates of President Donald Trump's campaign for political purposes.

"I leaked nothing to nobody," she told MSNBC on Tuesday afternoon.

"If I saw an intelligence report that looked potentially significant ... I can make that request," Rice added of unveiling names of American citizens in intelligence reports. "That's necessary for me to do my job."

Bloomberg and Fox News reported this week that Rice had requested the names of Trump transition officials be unveiled in classified intelligence reports about foreign citizens.

Rice added that unmasking a name in an intelligence report only revealed the name to the person who requested it -- and could not be compared to leaking the name to others broadly in the U.S. government. "There is no equivalence between so-called unmasking and leaking," she said.

"There were occasions when I would receive a report in which a U.S. person was referred to -- name not provided -- just U.S. person. And sometimes, in that context, in order to understand the importance of the report, and assess its significance, it was necessary to find out, or request, the information as to who the U.S. official was," Rice said. "The intelligence community made the determination as to whether or not the identity of that American individual could be provided to me."

A former national security official close Rice would not deny to ABC News that during the course of her official duties the former national security adviser may have unmasked officials connected to the Trump transition team and campaign, but insisted that she would have never done so improperly.

“I’m not denying that she routinely requested the unmasking of individuals,” the source close to Rice said, adding that any instance of unmasking would have been necessary to understand the value of the intelligence being presented to her.

House Intelligence Committee Chair Rep. Devin Nunes, R-California, previously said he was concerned that former Trump campaign associates were named in intelligence documents about the federal government's investigation into Russia's meddling in the 2016 election. Nunes said the classified documents show Trump associates may have been incidentally surveilled, but the Democratic ranking member Rep. Adam Schiff, D-California, said he does not agree with that assessment.

"To talk about the individuals on the foreign side, who were the targets of the report itself, or any Americans who may have collected upon incidentally -- is to disclose classified information. I'm not going to do that," Rice said, saying that giving details about classified reports is "very wrong."

“When it is necessary to unmask a name to understand the significance of the communication, there is a process for doing so, which is also lawful. Our committee routinely reviews whether our intelligence agencies are properly masking names and unmasking them as appropriate," Schiff said in a statement on Tuesday. “Some incidental collection is unavoidable, and as long as proper procedures are being followed, it is fully lawful. It does not constitute either wiretapping or surveillance of Americans."

White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday the reports were concerning.

“There is a civil liberties component to this that should be very troubling,” Spicer said. "So the question is, why was someone unmasked if that's the case? I believe there are more questions than answers at this point."

President Trump tweeted a month ago that former President Barack Obama wiretapped Trump Tower during the 2016 campaign. The bipartisan leaders of both chambers of Congress, both congressional intelligence panels and top current and former intelligence officials have said there's no evidence to support that.

Rice added she was "shocked" at Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping allegations, saying they are "absolutely false" and have "no basis in fact."

ABC News' Justin Fishel, Ben Siegel and John Parkinson contributed to this report.