This Cat Is Named After Hugh Jackman Because It's Recovering From A Fire Faster Than Wolverine
This Cat Is Named After Hugh Jackman Because It's Recovering From A Fire Faster Than Wolverine
This Cat Is Named After Hugh Jackman Because It's Recovering From A Fire Faster Than Wolverine Almost burned to death, a kitten, originally named Gene, was found abandoned on the streets of Brooklyn in New York. He was taken to the hospital and treated. However, the doctors were taken by surprise to see how quickly the kitten recovered. Overwhelmed by his remarkable recovery, they called him a superhero, and eventually renamed him – Hugh Jackman, as his healing process resembled that of Wolverine, an iconic character played by Hugh Jackman -- who uses his When the kitten was brought to the hospital, the doctors thought he was mistakenly put in a cloth dryer. However, his severe injuries later made them doubt their claim. Soon after, they discovered that he was severely burnt and also had four teeth missing. The cat was critically sick for initial few days and was given strong doses of antibiotics. But the doctors say that he doesn’t have any long-term problems and is expected to recover soon. Once he recovers completely, Hugh is most likely to go for adoption. But we kinda wish they named him Wolverine instead!

Almost burned to death, a kitten, originally named Gene, was found abandoned on the streets of Brooklyn in New York. He was taken to the hospital and treated. However, the doctors were taken by surprise to see how quickly the kitten recovered.

Overwhelmed by his remarkable recovery, they called him a superhero, and eventually renamed him – Hugh Jackman, as his healing process resembled that of Wolverine, an iconic character played by Hugh Jackman -- who uses his metal claws and special abilities to heal himself.

When the kitten was brought to the hospital, the doctors thought he was mistakenly put in a cloth dryer. However, his severe injuries later made them doubt their claim. Soon after, they discovered that he was severely burnt and also had four teeth missing.

YouTube/ACC NYC

The cat was critically sick for initial few days and was given strong doses of antibiotics. But the doctors say that he doesn’t have any long-term problems and is expected to recover soon.

Once he recovers completely, Hugh is most likely to go for adoption.

nydailynews.com

But we kinda wish they named him Wolverine instead!

Don't Miss 57.8 K SHARES 79.5 K SHARES 56.2 K SHARES 21.7 K SHARES 18.5 K SHARES