Justin Trudeau Hosts An AMA On Quora, Posts His Own Picture To Prove It's Really Him
Justin Trudeau Hosts An AMA On Quora, Posts His Own Picture To Prove It's Really Him
Justin Trudeau Hosts An AMA On Quora, Posts His Own Picture To Prove It's Really Him For as far as our memory goes, Trudeau is majorly known for his liberal nature, humility, modesty, astuteness and good looks. From the past couple of months, the world is reeling over all the bad things - the civil war, Muslim ban, attacks, bomb blasts etc. But surprisingly, for all the problems that this world is creating, the Canadian PM is making up. I mean, just look at him? Owing to his reputation and popularity, the question-answer website Quora held an exclusive AMA with PM Trudeau and it was absolutely adorable. And the fact that the Canadian PM took out time to answer these questions for us, mere mortals, is more than overwhelming in ways more than one. During the session, Trudeau answered 10 questions, ranging from an array of topics, but the cutest of all was him proving to a fan that it was him who was answering them and not his PR team. He wrote,  “SEE, IT’S ME!!!”

This is Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau, as you can tell, he is the coolest PM ever.

Getty

For as far as our memory goes, Trudeau is majorly known for his liberal nature, humility, modesty, astuteness and good looks.

From the past couple of months, the world is reeling over all the bad things - the civil war, Muslim ban, attacks, bomb blasts etc. But surprisingly, for all the problems that this world is creating, the Canadian PM is making up.

I mean, just look at him?

huffingtonpost

Owing to his reputation and popularity, the question-answer website Quora held an exclusive AMA with PM Trudeau and it was absolutely adorable.

And the fact that the Canadian PM took out time to answer these questions for us, mere mortals, is more than overwhelming in ways more than one.

During the session, Trudeau answered 10 questions, ranging from an array of topics, but the cutest of all was him proving to a fan that it was him who was answering them and not his PR team.

He wrote, “SEE, IT’S ME!!!”

Quora/ Justin Trudeau

Apart from that, someone asked him "What should world leaders be doing to support feminism in their countries and around the world?", to which he said:

As many of you probably know, I appointed a cabinet that was gender-balanced. But before I could blithely point out “because it’s 2015″, it took a lot of work in 2014, 2013, and 2012. To get great women in Cabinet, we needed to reach out to get great women to want to run for politics. Which was no easy task, given how nasty and divisive politics had become in Canada in those years. And much more to do still, given that our parliament still has only 26% women today.

And in the policy choices we make, leaders around the world should ensure that they encourage the full participation of women in society by enacting laws and regulations that facilitate this, or at the very least that do not pose an obstacle to this. (ex: there are still 18 Nations where women cannot get a job without their husband’s permission)

Don't Miss 9.2 K SHARES 1 K SHARES 47 K SHARES 28.7 K SHARES 27.7 K SHARES

And there’s much more to do on combating gender-based violence and harassment around the world, which is why men have an important role to play in the fight for women’s equality. Which is why I encourage men to sign up as HeforShe champions online, to demonstrate their support for an equal world.

Another question was about him having any regrets about his leadership, to which he replied:





feminist current

My focus needs to be on doing the best job I can every day in the best possible way for Canadians. Are there things I might have done differently, in hindsight?

Perhaps. But I know I’m making the best possible effort on every given decision, alongside a great team representing millions of different voices from across the country, with the best long-term interests of Canadians in mind.

Even though he couldn't answer all the question, the session went extremely well. You can follow the entire AMA here.