Mark Few of Gonzaga Bulldogs on missed late call: 'Just the way it goes'
Few on late missed call: 'Just the way it goes'
Few on late missed call: 'Just the way it goes' College hoops' royalty leads Way-Too-Early Top 25 North Carolina and Gonzaga alums in the NBA react to national title game How North Carolina's defense locked down a national title Complete 2017-18 CBB title odds Kennedy Meeks and Silas Melson battle for the ball. North Carolina is awarded the ball due to the possession arrow, but it appears Meeks' hand was out of bounds. (0:22) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers college basketball Joined ESPN.com in 2011 Graduate of Minnesota State University, Mankato Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment GLENDLALE, Ariz. -- Mark Few said he was unaware during the game that Kennedy Meeks had his hand out of bounds during a critical scramble for a loose ball in the final minute of North Carolina's 71-65 victory over Gonzaga in the national title game on Monday night. With 49.1 seconds to play and North Carolina leading 66-65, Meeks battled Gonzaga's Silas Melson for a loose ball. But video of the scramble showed Meeks with his right hand out of bounds as he tried to snatch the ball from Melson. A jump ball was called, and the Tar Heels retained possession before scoring the last five points of the contest. Per NCAA rules, it was not a reviewable play. "No, there wasn't [any talk of reviewing the play]," Few said after the game. "I wish ... and that's probably on me. I had no idea. I just, from my angle, it didn't look like it was a situation where there was an out-of-bounds situation, or else I would have called for a review. So nobody made me aware of it, or I certainly would have within the last minute there or two minutes. So that's tough. It's tough to hear. But, you know, that's just the way it goes." The Tar Heels turned the extra possession into an inside hoop from Isaiah Hicks that made it 68-65 with 26 seconds left. The Zags turned it over on their next possession, Justin Jackson dunked with 12 seconds left to make it 70-65, and that was pretty much it. The referees were not available for comment when The Associated Press learned about the issue through screen shots of the play making the rounds on social media. Through NCAA spokesman David Worlock, national coordinator of basketball officials J.D. Collins said the play was not reviewable. In a game with 44 fouls, there was plenty of reason to complain about officiating, though both teams steered away from really laying into the referees. "It's a very difficult game to call. I'm sitting over there, I'm not thinking the officials are doing a terrible job," North Carolina coach Roy Williams said. "I'm thinking our offense stinks." "I told them don't worry about what the referee is doing, he missed a call [earlier], but my God, we missed four free throws in a row, missed layups. So we were at fault just as much as anybody else," Williams said. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Kennedy Meeks and Silas Melson battle for the ball. North Carolina is awarded the ball due to the possession arrow, but it appears Meeks' hand was out of bounds. (0:22)

GLENDLALE, Ariz. -- Mark Few said he was unaware during the game that Kennedy Meeks had his hand out of bounds during a critical scramble for a loose ball in the final minute of North Carolina's 71-65 victory over Gonzaga in the national title game on Monday night.

With 49.1 seconds to play and North Carolina leading 66-65, Meeks battled Gonzaga's Silas Melson for a loose ball. But video of the scramble showed Meeks with his right hand out of bounds as he tried to snatch the ball from Melson.

A jump ball was called, and the Tar Heels retained possession before scoring the last five points of the contest.

Per NCAA rules, it was not a reviewable play.

"No, there wasn't [any talk of reviewing the play]," Few said after the game. "I wish ... and that's probably on me. I had no idea. I just, from my angle, it didn't look like it was a situation where there was an out-of-bounds situation, or else I would have called for a review. So nobody made me aware of it, or I certainly would have within the last minute there or two minutes. So that's tough. It's tough to hear. But, you know, that's just the way it goes."

Editor's Picks Gonzaga has to live with coming so close The Zags got to that elusive Final Four, but the goal was always to win the whole thing. Which is why this one hurts. "Man, it crushes you," Gonzaga coach Mark Few said.

Despite 2 bad ankles, UNC's Berry named MOP Joel Berry II came into Final Four weekend with two sprained ankles but powered the Tar Heels to their sixth NCAA title, and that earned the junior guard the most outstanding player award.

North Carolina scratches and claws its way to Roy Williams' third title North Carolina was able to finish the job this time around, as the Tar Heels made big plays late to outlast Gonzaga and win their sixth national title. 2 Related

The Tar Heels turned the extra possession into an inside hoop from Isaiah Hicks that made it 68-65 with 26 seconds left. The Zags turned it over on their next possession, Justin Jackson dunked with 12 seconds left to make it 70-65, and that was pretty much it.

The referees were not available for comment when The Associated Press learned about the issue through screen shots of the play making the rounds on social media. Through NCAA spokesman David Worlock, national coordinator of basketball officials J.D. Collins said the play was not reviewable.

In a game with 44 fouls, there was plenty of reason to complain about officiating, though both teams steered away from really laying into the referees.

"It's a very difficult game to call. I'm sitting over there, I'm not thinking the officials are doing a terrible job," North Carolina coach Roy Williams said. "I'm thinking our offense stinks."

"I told them don't worry about what the referee is doing, he missed a call [earlier], but my God, we missed four free throws in a row, missed layups. So we were at fault just as much as anybody else," Williams said.

Information from The Associated Press was used in this report.