Magic GM Rob Hennigan Responds to Trade and Free-Agency Big-Board Leak
Magic GM Rob Hennigan Responds to Trade and Free-Agency Big-Board Leak
Orlando Magic general manager Rob Hennigan denied the agent for Argentine guard Patricio Garino , Carlos Prunes, inadvertently revealed the team's offseason plans Monday. Hennigan told the 's Josh Robbins the names on the whiteboard were " UMM...did Orlando Magic just leak their targets for trades and free agency?? 🤔 https://t.co/k9bAKImJKK https://t.co/zXoNNHzOWB Although Hennigan said otherwise, it's hard to see how the names aren't indicative to some extent of what the Magic want to do in the offseason, unless Orlando purposefully had While the Magic weren't responsible for the leak, having Garino sign his contract in front of the whiteboard wasn't a great idea in retrospect. It's also not a good look for a general manager who may be on the hot seat. ESPN.com's Marc Stein reported in March the Magic are considering firing Hennigan at the end of the year. Whether the leaked photo will hurt Orlando to a demonstrable extent is up for debate, but the picture won't be helpful. Now the rest of the league has a good idea of whom the Magic are targeting, which gives other teams leverage in trade discussions and an idea of who else might be interested in certain free agents. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Fernando Medina/Getty Images

Orlando Magic general manager Rob Hennigan denied the agent for Argentine guard Patricio Garino, Carlos Prunes, inadvertently revealed the team's offseason plans Monday.

Hennigan told the Orlando Sentinel's Josh Robbins the names on the whiteboard were "not indicative of plans" and the team was "simply listing options, including some of which other teams have inquired about."

TheScore shared the photo from Prunes' since-deleted tweet:

Although Hennigan said otherwise, it's hard to see how the names aren't indicative to some extent of what the Magic want to do in the offseason, unless Orlando purposefully had Prunes post the photo as subterfuge, which would encompass master-level scheming.

While the Magic weren't responsible for the leak, having Garino sign his contract in front of the whiteboard wasn't a great idea in retrospect.

It's also not a good look for a general manager who may be on the hot seat. ESPN.com's Marc Stein reported in March the Magic are considering firing Hennigan at the end of the year.

Whether the leaked photo will hurt Orlando to a demonstrable extent is up for debate, but the picture won't be helpful. Now the rest of the league has a good idea of whom the Magic are targeting, which gives other teams leverage in trade discussions and an idea of who else might be interested in certain free agents.