Where Does Phil Simms Wind Up Now That Tony Romo Is At CBS?
Where Does Phil Simms Wind Up Now That Tony Romo Is At CBS?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Maury Brown       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Based on a report, CBS NFL game analyst Phil Simms will be replaced as the lead color analyst by Tony Romo. (Photo by Scott Halleran/Getty Images) As the NFL offseason has worn on, the lingering question on everyone’s mind has been, where will Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo wind up? The answer is not on the field, but the broadcast booth. Romo will become the lead analyst for CBS Sports, bumping Phil Simms out of the spot. The announcement was made by Sean McManus, Chairman of CBS Sports. “Tony has been one of the NFL’s biggest stars for the past decade, and we are thrilled to welcome him to CBS Sports,” said McManus in a statment. “He will bring the same passion, enthusiasm and knowledge that he displayed on the field to the broadcast booth. He brings a fresh and insightful perspective to our viewers having just stepped off the field. We know Tony will quickly develop into a terrific analyst, and alongside Jim Nantz, will become a must-listen for fans each week.” Romo will work both NFL on CBS Sunday broadcasts, as well as Thursday Night Football beginning with the upcoming 2017-18 season. The story was first reported by John Ourand of the The move is surprising. According to reports, unlike most going into the field, Romo has not taken part in any test broadcasts and at age 37, has no broadcast experience. Yes, Romo has been at ease in front of a camera as an interviewee, but that's entirely different from being an analyst for games, especially at CBS where they cover AFC games. Romo has spent his career in the NFC. All this has to be painful for Simms, the two-time Super Bowl winner with the New York Giants who is now eligible for the Hall of Fame. While all broadcasters and analysts have their detractors, Simms has been roundly  panned  on  more  than  one occasion. Still, Manus praised Simms even as he was being pushed out of the lead analyst chair. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

UPDATED

As the NFL offseason has worn on, the lingering question on everyone’s mind has been, where will Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo wind up? The answer is not on the field, but the broadcast booth.

Romo will become the lead analyst for CBS Sports, bumping Phil Simms out of the spot. The announcement was made by Sean McManus, Chairman of CBS Sports.

“Tony has been one of the NFL’s biggest stars for the past decade, and we are thrilled to welcome him to CBS Sports,” said McManus in a statment. “He will bring the same passion, enthusiasm and knowledge that he displayed on the field to the broadcast booth. He brings a fresh and insightful perspective to our viewers having just stepped off the field. We know Tony will quickly develop into a terrific analyst, and alongside Jim Nantz, will become a must-listen for fans each week.”

Romo will work both NFL on CBS Sunday broadcasts, as well as Thursday Night Football beginning with the upcoming 2017-18 season.

The story was first reported by John Ourand of the SportsBusiness Journal/Daily.

The move is surprising. According to reports, unlike most going into the field, Romo has not taken part in any test broadcasts and at age 37, has no broadcast experience. Yes, Romo has been at ease in front of a camera as an interviewee, but that's entirely different from being an analyst for games, especially at CBS where they cover AFC games. Romo has spent his career in the NFC.

Also on Forbes:

All this has to be painful for Simms, the two-time Super Bowl winner with the New York Giants who is now eligible for the Hall of Fame.

While all broadcasters and analysts have their detractors, Simms has been roundly panned on more than one occasion.

Still, Manus praised Simms even as he was being pushed out of the lead analyst chair.