Asos's Foreign Flair Can't Mask British Bother
Potential Pullback
Asos's Foreign Flair Can't Mask British Bother   Consumer  Andrea Felsted is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering the consumer and retail industries. She previously worked at the Financial Times.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  If you thought band T-shirts, blouses and bikinis didn't have much to do with Brexit, think again. The link is Asos Plc, the online seller of all things fashion to hip twentysomethings. As the retailer generated 62 percent of its retail sales outside of the U.K. in the first half of its financial year to the end of February, it has been a big beneficiary of the post-referendum slump in sterling. Indeed, international sales rose 54 percent in the first half, compared with an 18 percent increase in the U.K. Asos has been nicely protected from Brexit, but if the British shopper starts to cut back, some of the heady advantage it's enjoyed may start to fizzle out. On Tuesday the company upgraded its full-year sales growth forecast from between 25 percent and 30 percent to between 30 percent and 35 percent. The company has decided to reinvest the windfall from surging revenues into even lower prices and better products. Chief Executive Officer Nick Beighton said that "as and when" sterling strengthens, Asos can benefit from having built a more powerful international presence. That all looks smart. But the trouble is, price cuts and investment in a U.K. loyalty plan have taken their toll: the gross margin fell 0.6 percentage point in the first half. Asos said company was still broadly in line to achieve the mean consensus for full-year pre-tax profit of 80.6 million pounds ($100.4 million). And life is about to get tougher -- particularly in its home market. Asos pays for about 75 percent of the products it buys in sterling. It's hedged its currency exposure, and has also increased its natural defense -- the sales it generates in dollars and euros. Even so, Asos is unlikely to be able to escape the full effect of a weaker pound on its sourcing costs. At the same time, its core U.K. customers are likely to see their real incomes squeezed by faster inflation. Britain still accounts for about 40 percent of retail sales, and remains an extremely promotional market, particularly for womenswear. It also has nimble rivals to contend with -- smaller upstart boohoo.com Plc is snapping at its heels. Stretched consumers, and aggressive competitors, mean Asos won't be able to raise prices in its domestic market, and it has pledged to do all it can to avoid hikes. The shares fell as much as 7.4 percent in early trading. Investors are right to be concerned. Asos isn’t the only high-sales-growth, margin-pressure story out there. Even Inditex SA, whose sales growth has left most rivals in the shade, saw its gross margin shrink to the lowest level in almost eight years in 2016. Asos deserves some premium over bricks and mortar retailers. It is on a forward price earnings ratio of 62 times, compared with Inditex's 27, and 20 times for the Bloomberg Intelligence European specialty apparel index. But on such an outsized multiple, it can't afford any slip ups. Asos has been a great Brexit winner. The U.K. may be a shrinking share of its business as international sales continue to power ahead, but the humble British shopper still has the potential to throw it off course. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at afelsted@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at jryan13@bloomberg.net Sydney home prices, year-on-year in March Concocted Culprit  An Asian Lesson for Sydney's Property Bubble   Real Estate  Office Superstore? LBO-Ready  Private Equity Finds Staples in the Bargain Bin   Deals  Still Dead Zombie Bill  A Trumpcare Resurrection Isn't Happening, Investors   Health  Tesla's Market Cap Been There, Done That  To Unravel Tesla, GM and Einhorn, Look To Oil   Autos  Priced to Perfection Fool's Gold  Some Dross Hides in Junk-Debt Gloss   Markets  Variety Is the Spice Playing the Field  Incyte Is Smart to Date Around   Health  Red Ink While Supplies Last  Staples Takeover Talk Comes Just in Time   Consumer  Price of a revolutionary Aux Armes  France's Anti-Bank Sells Out   Finance  Sandwich Tower Bread Overload  Panera Is Too Much Dough   Deals  Targa Dividend Yield Moving Targa  A Different Kind Of Permian Play   Energy  It's Electrifying Don't Forget the Motor City  In Defense of Detroit   Autos  People with a CFA qualification Passively Aggressive  Who Killed the Active Fund Manager?   Finance  Feeling Wealthier Wealth and Taxes  The Taxman Cometh for Credit Suisse   Finance  Atkins Overseas Digging Deep  A Trump Bump, From Canada   Deals  Valuation Comparison Cuts Both Ways  Apple + Samsung = Ouch   Tech  Flight Time Cloudy Outlook  Getting Frontier Off the Ground   Industrials  Still Expanding Numbers Game  The Myth of Shrinking Asset Managers   Markets  Stuck Up Glass Houses  Mind Your Own Business, Chipotle   Consumer  Gain in S&P 500 since March 2009 Follow the Money  Ordinary Investors Shoot the Bull   Markets  Applesauce The Limits of Imagination  Apple Turns Into a Black Hole  Looking for Love Vanishing Vanish  Reckitt Can Cut More Mustard   Consumer  Worn Out A surfeit of lemons  Singapore's Brave to Battle Chinese Bosses   Markets  Rate of Change fossil fools  Coal's Dirty Secret   Energy  How Many Miles Americans Drove In January Petrol Peeve  America's Gas-Pump Puzzle   Energy

If you thought band T-shirts, blouses and bikinis didn't have much to do with Brexit, think again.

The link is Asos Plc, the online seller of all things fashion to hip twentysomethings.

As the retailer generated 62 percent of its retail sales outside of the U.K. in the first half of its financial year to the end of February, it has been a big beneficiary of the post-referendum slump in sterling. Indeed, international sales rose 54 percent in the first half, compared with an 18 percent increase in the U.K.

Streets Ahead Asos's forward p/e ratio is at a premium to its primarily store based rivals Source: Bloomberg

Asos has been nicely protected from Brexit, but if the British shopper starts to cut back, some of the heady advantage it's enjoyed may start to fizzle out.

On Tuesday the company upgraded its full-year sales growth forecast from between 25 percent and 30 percent to between 30 percent and 35 percent. The company has decided to reinvest the windfall from surging revenues into even lower prices and better products. Chief Executive Officer Nick Beighton said that "as and when" sterling strengthens, Asos can benefit from having built a more powerful international presence.

That all looks smart. But the trouble is, price cuts and investment in a U.K. loyalty plan have taken their toll: the gross margin fell 0.6 percentage point in the first half. Asos said company was still broadly in line to achieve the mean consensus for full-year pre-tax profit of 80.6 million pounds ($100.4 million).

Investing to Grow Cutting prices and improving products in Asos's international arm took its toll on its gross margin Source: Bloomberg

And life is about to get tougher -- particularly in its home market.

Asos pays for about 75 percent of the products it buys in sterling. It's hedged its currency exposure, and has also increased its natural defense -- the sales it generates in dollars and euros. Even so, Asos is unlikely to be able to escape the full effect of a weaker pound on its sourcing costs.

At the same time, its core U.K. customers are likely to see their real incomes squeezed by faster inflation. Britain still accounts for about 40 percent of retail sales, and remains an extremely promotional market, particularly for womenswear.

It also has nimble rivals to contend with -- smaller upstart boohoo.com Plc is snapping at its heels. Stretched consumers, and aggressive competitors, mean Asos won't be able to raise prices in its domestic market, and it has pledged to do all it can to avoid hikes.

Catching Up Smaller rival Boohoo.com is growing faster than Asos Source: Bloomberg

The shares fell as much as 7.4 percent in early trading. Investors are right to be concerned. Asos isn’t the only high-sales-growth, margin-pressure story out there. Even Inditex SA, whose sales growth has left most rivals in the shade, saw its gross margin shrink to the lowest level in almost eight years in 2016.

Asos deserves some premium over bricks and mortar retailers. It is on a forward price earnings ratio of 62 times, compared with Inditex's 27, and 20 times for the Bloomberg Intelligence European specialty apparel index. But on such an outsized multiple, it can't afford any slip ups.

Asos has been a great Brexit winner. The U.K. may be a shrinking share of its business as international sales continue to power ahead, but the humble British shopper still has the potential to throw it off course.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Andrea Felsted in London at afelsted@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Jennifer Ryan at jryan13@bloomberg.net