This Lady With Six Kids Is One Of The Funniest Moms On Twitter
This Mom With Six Kids Still Finds Time To Bring The LOLs On Twitter
It's 8:40am & I just broke up a fistfight over who gets the last tater tot, in case you're wondering how fulfilling parenthood is.   When you come home with a week's worth of groceries & the kids eat up two days of food while you're still unpacking.   My daughter can't find her glasses, her shoes, or her backpack, but she can spot a sliver of onion in a bowl of rice from 10 feet away.   I hate when they want food & there's no food & I have to be the one to go & buy & cook the food just so they can say they hate the food.   5pm, to kids: "Stop complaining that there's nothing good to eat here! Have some fruit!"

11pm, to self: "There's nothing good to eat here."   Practiced our school morning routine today, so I hid one of each kid's shoes, spilled cereal, & had the toddler throw my keys in the trash.   I'm just trying to hide my bedhead & guzzle coffee while dropping my kids off at school. 

Meanwhile, the PTA moms:   What's bedtime with multiple kids feel like?

THIS.   Describe what the hour before the kids' bedtime is like? Hmm.. let's see... sort of... 

Oh, right. Just like THIS.   Me: "It's bedtime; did you brush your teeth?"

7 yr old: "Yes- here, smell."

LIAR.   Me: "Why are these Legos all over the floor?!"

5: "To keep everyone else away; it's my computer turn."

BRILLIANT.   It takes my toddler son four minutes to put his shoes on, yet he can delete three apps & open Netflix on my iPhone in 12 seconds.                                  And before you ask, they are done having kids. "No seats are left in the minivan!" Ortiz says.   *watching husband sleep*

Me: "I just love him so much, he's my everyth-"

*husband snores*

Me: "I can't live like this."   8am- eats healthy breakfast
12pm- eats healthy lunch
6pm- eats healthy dinner

11pm- rips open bag of chips & straps it on like a feedbag     When you're picking up your kids from school wearing the same thing as yesterday & fellow parents walk by.   Family Movie Night- I'd tell you what movie we're watching, but with 6 kids chewing popcorn I can't hear a word...

A big family wasn’t always the plan, Ortiz tells BuzzFeed. “My original life plan involved too many cats, too many books, and NO kids. But I fell head over heels in love with my husband and we decided to have a baby after a year of marriage. That went so well that we decided, 'We could totally handle two kids!'" (And three, and four, and...)