Former Los Angeles Dodgers star Pedro Guerrero fighting for life after stroke
Ex-Dodger Guerrero gravely ill after stroke
Ex-Dodger Guerrero gravely ill after stroke Players who can most help their Hall of Fame chances in 2017 As Dexter Fowler goes, so do the Cardinals? How do you build a winning outfield? Mariners mixing up the blueprint The 65-win Cubs?!? Tales from MLB's 2017 alternative timelines Mets have another reason to fret with Noah Syndergaard's exit Nerves not an issue for Clayton Kershaw in first win of season Zach Britton re-writes Orioles-Blue Jays rivalry Sound the horns! Stephen Vogt is here to entertain you Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Former Los Angeles Dodgers star Pedro Guerrero is fighting for his life in a New York hospital after suffering a stroke, according to his stepdaugher. Jessica Mora told ESPN's Enrique Rojas that Guerrero suffered a stroke -- his second in the past few years -- on Monday and was taken to the hospital, where he currently is on life support. His wife, Roxanna Jimenez, told a Dominican Republic-based radio show Grandes en los Deportes that doctors said he was brain dead but a second opinion confirmed he was in a coma. "It was his second massive stroke," Jimenez told Grandes en los Deportes. "He's recovering, the doctor said he can improve. He opened his eyes and is trying to communicate." Guerrero was hospitalized in the Dominican Republic in 2015 for bleeding on the brain . He spent 15 years in the major leagues with the Dodgers and St. Louis Cardinals . He was MVP along with Ron Cey and Steve Yeager in the Dodgers' victory over the New York Yankees in the 1981 World Series. A five-time All-Star, Guerrero had a .300 career batting average with 215 home runs and 898 RBIs. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Former Los Angeles Dodgers star Pedro Guerrero is fighting for his life in a New York hospital after suffering a stroke, according to his stepdaugher.

Jessica Mora told ESPN's Enrique Rojas that Guerrero suffered a stroke -- his second in the past few years -- on Monday and was taken to the hospital, where he currently is on life support.

His wife, Roxanna Jimenez, told a Dominican Republic-based radio show Grandes en los Deportes that doctors said he was brain dead but a second opinion confirmed he was in a coma.

"It was his second massive stroke," Jimenez told Grandes en los Deportes. "He's recovering, the doctor said he can improve. He opened his eyes and is trying to communicate."

Guerrero was hospitalized in the Dominican Republic in 2015 for bleeding on the brain.

He spent 15 years in the major leagues with the Dodgers and St. Louis Cardinals. He was MVP along with Ron Cey and Steve Yeager in the Dodgers' victory over the New York Yankees in the 1981 World Series.

A five-time All-Star, Guerrero had a .300 career batting average with 215 home runs and 898 RBIs.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.