'Daily Show' correspondent Jordan Klepper is getting a late night spinoff
'Daily Show' correspondent Jordan Klepper is getting a late night spinoff
Comedy Central has found its replacement for Larry Wilmore's , and it's... another white dude, because late night TV clearly doesn't have enough of those. To be fair, the guy who got the gig is the very funny Jordan Klepper, who has been with since Jon Stewart's tenure, and has proven his comedic chops as the senior correspondent under Trevor Noah. His untitled companion series will air Monday-Thursday at 11:30 p.m. ET/PT, beginning this fall, taking over the timeslot vacated by , which was cancelled last August. Klepper has established himself for his mix of studio segments and field work, ranging from his multi-part series exploring the reality of being a “ Good Guy with a Gun ” to his field pieces at Trump rallies which have garnered millions of views. His new series is in the beginning stages of development and will be produced by Klepper, Trevor Noah and Stuart Miller ( , ). The untitled show will "look to embrace and define the chaos of our country by channeling Klepper’s steadfast attitude that institutions are to be trusted less than the lies of the mainstream media," according to Comedy Central's release. “The choice to entrust me with the 11:30 p.m. timeslot is both incredibly humbling and deeply disturbing,” said Klepper in a statement. “Without a doubt, it has utterly destroyed my confidence in Comedy Central’s decision making acumen. Dear God, now I have to work with these fools.” WATCH: Trevor Noah has a lesson on how to talk to conservatives

Comedy Central has found its replacement for Larry Wilmore's Nightly Show, and it's... another white dude, because late night TV clearly doesn't have enough of those.

To be fair, the guy who got the gig is the very funny Jordan Klepper, who has been with The Daily Show since Jon Stewart's tenure, and has proven his comedic chops as the senior correspondent under Trevor Noah.

His untitled Daily Show companion series will air Monday-Thursday at 11:30 p.m. ET/PT, beginning this fall, taking over the timeslot vacated by The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore, which was cancelled last August.

Klepper has established himself for his mix of studio segments and field work, ranging from his multi-part series exploring the reality of being a “Good Guy with a Gun” to his field pieces at Trump rallies which have garnered millions of views.

His new series is in the beginning stages of development and will be produced by Klepper, Trevor Noah and Stuart Miller (The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, Ferrell Takes the Field).

The untitled show will "look to embrace and define the chaos of our country by channeling Klepper’s steadfast attitude that institutions are to be trusted less than the lies of the mainstream media," according to Comedy Central's release.

“The choice to entrust me with the 11:30 p.m. timeslot is both incredibly humbling and deeply disturbing,” said Klepper in a statement. “Without a doubt, it has utterly destroyed my confidence in Comedy Central’s decision making acumen. Dear God, now I have to work with these fools.”