Drake, by starring in Top Boy, you are appropriating British working class culture
Drake, by starring in Top Boy, you are appropriating British working class culture
What would a middle class Canadian know about growing up on a working class estate in East London? Well, if you’re Drake , enough to buy the rights the TV show apparently. In the Netflix (originally Channel 4)  show, the fictional Hackney council estate, Summerhouse, forms the backdrop against which young people struggle with the temptations of violence, gangs and drugs. This is the narrative into which Drake, a suburban Torontonian child-actor-cum-rap-superstar, is inserting himself. A caveat here, I am a British middle class Indian woman. I could never imagine throwing myself into a TV show about working class Indians in the West Indies say, or adopting their mannerisms in real life. Yes, we are collectively a part of a global diaspora, but my experience has nothing to do with theirs and I could never truly understand it. I have so much more privilege, and wouldn’t dream of using my social and financial capital to appropriate their culture. This is exactly what Drake is doing. It’s not the first time either. His new album, is a love letter to grime, a genre of music that emerged from East London in the early 2000s. It features Giggs, Dave and Skepta. He has performed with Section Boyz and even went as far as to get a BBK tattoo, homage to Skepta, JME, Wiley and Jammer’s Boy Better Know collective. He uses East London lexicon  - words like blem, mandem, ends -  and also can do a mean UK accent, just check the immortal “man’s never been in Marquee when it’s shutdown, trusss mi daddi” opener from Skepta’s . I’m sure Drake is a huge grime fan, and there’s nothing wrong with showing love for what is currently the UK’s most important cultural output. But, there’s a fine line between appreciation and appropriation, and it’s got a lot to do with your intentions. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     2 April 2017   Sunrise over Plungar in Leicestershire   Neil Squires/PA Wire     1 April 2017   Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London   Ben Stevens/PA Wire     29 March 2017   Anti-Brexit protesters, one wearing a giant Theresa May head, hold placards outside Parliament on the day the Prime Minister will announce that she has triggered the process by which Britain will leave the European Union   Reuters     29 March 2017   Faith Leaders head up a vigil including members of the public and police officers on Westminster Bridge exactly one week after the attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   Police officers holds roses on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   Members of Ahmadiyya Muslim Association pay their respects in Parliament Square, London,  exactly a week since the Westminster terror attack took place   PA wire     29 March 2017   People attend a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   A police badge topped with a white rose is placed during a vigil on Westminster Bridge in London   PA wire     29 March 2017   A police officer holding a flower stands in front of Muslim girls holding placards as they join people on Westminster Bridge during an event to remember the victims of the Westminster attack   Reuters     29 March 2017   People wearing #IAMAMUSLIM t-shirts hold a banner reading 'Love for all, hatred for none' on Westminster Bridge as they attend a vigil   Getty Images     29 March 2017   A Police officer holds a white rose on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack   Getty Images     29 March 2017   British ambassador to the EU, Sir Tim Barrow leaves after delivering the official notice under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to European Council President Donald Tusk in Brussels, Belgium   EPA     29 March 2017   EU Council President Donald Tusk holds British Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit letter which was delivered by Britain's permanent representative to the European Union Sir Tim Barrow in Brussels, Belgium, as part of the process that starts the formal proceedings of United Kingdom leaving the European Union   EPA     28 March 2017   Claire Blackman,wife of Alexander Blackman,celebrates outside the High Court, after Sergeant Blackman's appeal was successful. The court heard that will be free within 2 weeks   Rex     28 March 2017   Supporters of jailed former British soldier Alexander Blackman, Marine A, arrive at The Royal Courts of Justice in London, to attend the result of his sentence   Getty Images     27 March 2017   A Tate Britain staff member poses for photographers underneath "Forms in Space...by Light (in Time)" a light installation by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans, during a photo call in the Duveen Galleries at Tate Britain gallery in London   AP     27 March 2017   The recently redeveloped National Army Museum   Getty Images     27 March 2017   The National Army Museum in London   Getty Images     27 March 2017   Police walk past floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terrorist attack outside the Palace of Westminster, London   PA wire     26 March 2017   Floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terror attack are seen in Parliament Square in central London   Getty Images     26 March 2017   A aerial view of Derwentwater near Keswick in the Lake District, Cumbria, with snow capped mountains in the foreground and background, as the warm weather continues for many in the UK   PA wire     24 March 2017   British Conservative Party politician Tobias Ellwood (C), who gave first aid to the fatally wounded police officer Keith Palmer, one of the casualties of the March 22 London terror attack, shakes hands with an armed police officer as he arrives at the Houses of Parliament in London   Getty Images  That’s where comes in. It gives him legitimacy. When he claims “Nobody makes it from my ends” in most of us want to scream “Toronto is hardly the streets!” Now, we’ll shrug and say, I know mate, Hackney’s had it hard. is unique in that it forced mainstream television audiences to acknowledge a history and an ongoing struggle. It became a success based on the merits of the stories it shared and the actors like Kano and Ashley Walters who depicted them. I hope that Drake uses his relationship with the show to raise it up, drawing attention to stories of British working class black culture that need to be told, such as the character Lisa’s struggles with mental health, a topic rarely discussed in relation to BME communities. Exposure is great for , but overshadowing it isn’t. More about: Drake Top Boy Comments

What would a middle class Canadian know about growing up on a working class estate in East London? Well, if you’re Drake, enough to buy the rights the TV show Top Boy apparently.

In the Netflix (originally Channel 4) show, the fictional Hackney council estate, Summerhouse, forms the backdrop against which young people struggle with the temptations of violence, gangs and drugs. This is the narrative into which Drake, a suburban Torontonian child-actor-cum-rap-superstar, is inserting himself.

A caveat here, I am a British middle class Indian woman. I could never imagine throwing myself into a TV show about working class Indians in the West Indies say, or adopting their mannerisms in real life. Yes, we are collectively a part of a global diaspora, but my experience has nothing to do with theirs and I could never truly understand it. I have so much more privilege, and wouldn’t dream of using my social and financial capital to appropriate their culture.

Drake's Beef - SNL

This is exactly what Drake is doing. It’s not the first time either. His new album, More Life, is a love letter to grime, a genre of music that emerged from East London in the early 2000s. It features Giggs, Dave and Skepta. He has performed with Section Boyz and even went as far as to get a BBK tattoo, homage to Skepta, JME, Wiley and Jammer’s Boy Better Know collective. He uses East London lexicon - words like blem, mandem, ends - and also can do a mean UK accent, just check the immortal “man’s never been in Marquee when it’s shutdown, trusss mi daddi” opener from Skepta’s Shutdown.

I’m sure Drake is a huge grime fan, and there’s nothing wrong with showing love for what is currently the UK’s most important cultural output. But, there’s a fine line between appreciation and appropriation, and it’s got a lot to do with your intentions.

There’s little doubt that Drake lacks the authenticity that is integral to hip-hop – his bars are neither about crime or morality, instead he has always chosen fame as his muse, mostly ruminating on how lonely you can feel when you have it all. If the trappings of wealth feel alienating to Drake, imagine how the rest of us feel listening to him whine about it.

UK news in pictures







26 show all UK news in pictures

















































1/26 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

2/26 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

3/26 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

4/26 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

5/26 2 April 2017 Sunrise over Plungar in Leicestershire Neil Squires/PA Wire

6/26 1 April 2017 Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London Ben Stevens/PA Wire

7/26 29 March 2017 Anti-Brexit protesters, one wearing a giant Theresa May head, hold placards outside Parliament on the day the Prime Minister will announce that she has triggered the process by which Britain will leave the European Union Reuters

8/26 29 March 2017 Faith Leaders head up a vigil including members of the public and police officers on Westminster Bridge exactly one week after the attack Getty Images

9/26 29 March 2017 Police officers holds roses on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

10/26 29 March 2017 Members of Ahmadiyya Muslim Association pay their respects in Parliament Square, London, exactly a week since the Westminster terror attack took place PA wire

11/26 29 March 2017 People attend a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

12/26 29 March 2017 A police badge topped with a white rose is placed during a vigil on Westminster Bridge in London PA wire

13/26 29 March 2017 A police officer holding a flower stands in front of Muslim girls holding placards as they join people on Westminster Bridge during an event to remember the victims of the Westminster attack Reuters

14/26 29 March 2017 People wearing #IAMAMUSLIM t-shirts hold a banner reading 'Love for all, hatred for none' on Westminster Bridge as they attend a vigil Getty Images

15/26 29 March 2017 A Police officer holds a white rose on Westminster Bridge during a vigil to remember the victims of last week's Westminster terrorist attack Getty Images

16/26 29 March 2017 British ambassador to the EU, Sir Tim Barrow leaves after delivering the official notice under Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to European Council President Donald Tusk in Brussels, Belgium EPA

17/26 29 March 2017 EU Council President Donald Tusk holds British Prime Minister Theresa May's Brexit letter which was delivered by Britain's permanent representative to the European Union Sir Tim Barrow in Brussels, Belgium, as part of the process that starts the formal proceedings of United Kingdom leaving the European Union EPA

18/26 28 March 2017 Claire Blackman,wife of Alexander Blackman,celebrates outside the High Court, after Sergeant Blackman's appeal was successful. The court heard that will be free within 2 weeks Rex

19/26 28 March 2017 Supporters of jailed former British soldier Alexander Blackman, Marine A, arrive at The Royal Courts of Justice in London, to attend the result of his sentence Getty Images

20/26 27 March 2017 A Tate Britain staff member poses for photographers underneath "Forms in Space...by Light (in Time)" a light installation by Welsh artist Cerith Wyn Evans, during a photo call in the Duveen Galleries at Tate Britain gallery in London AP

21/26 27 March 2017 The recently redeveloped National Army Museum Getty Images

22/26 27 March 2017 The National Army Museum in London Getty Images

23/26 27 March 2017 Police walk past floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terrorist attack outside the Palace of Westminster, London PA wire

24/26 26 March 2017 Floral tributes to the victims of the Westminster terror attack are seen in Parliament Square in central London Getty Images

25/26 26 March 2017 A aerial view of Derwentwater near Keswick in the Lake District, Cumbria, with snow capped mountains in the foreground and background, as the warm weather continues for many in the UK PA wire

26/26 24 March 2017 British Conservative Party politician Tobias Ellwood (C), who gave first aid to the fatally wounded police officer Keith Palmer, one of the casualties of the March 22 London terror attack, shakes hands with an armed police officer as he arrives at the Houses of Parliament in London Getty Images

That’s where Top Boy comes in. It gives him legitimacy. When he claims “Nobody makes it from my ends” in One Dance most of us want to scream “Toronto is hardly the streets!” Now, we’ll shrug and say, I know mate, Hackney’s had it hard.

Top Boy is unique in that it forced mainstream television audiences to acknowledge a history and an ongoing struggle. It became a success based on the merits of the stories it shared and the actors like Kano and Ashley Walters who depicted them. I hope that Drake uses his relationship with the show to raise it up, drawing attention to stories of British working class black culture that need to be told, such as the character Lisa’s struggles with mental health, a topic rarely discussed in relation to BME communities.

Exposure is great for Top Boy, but overshadowing it isn’t.