Washington Capitals star Alex Ovechkin says he's still going to Olympics
Ovechkin on Olympics: 'I don't care, I just go'
Ovechkin on Olympics: 'I don't care, I just go' How Nick Foligno learned to lead a playoff team Bruins bear down during final stretch Power Rankings: McDavid, Oilers move up to No. 3 The NHL's not planning to participate in the 2018 Olympics is not fazing Alexander Ovechkin's desire to play in the event. (1:02) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers the NHL for ESPN.com and TSN in Canada Six years on the "Hockey Night In Canada" Hotstove panel 13 years at The Canadian Press national news agency Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment TORONTO -- Alex Ovechkin did not blink Tuesday, saying he still intends to play in the Olympic Games for Russia next year regardless of the NHL's announcement that it was pulling the plug. "Yeah, I didn't change my mind and I won't," the Washington Capitals superstar captain told a huge media scrum after the morning skate at Air Canada Centre. "Because it's my country," Ovechkin added. "I think everybody wants to play there. It's the biggest opportunity in your life to play in the Olympic Games. So, I don't know, somebody [is] going to tell me 'don't go,' I don't care, I just go." He also remains hopeful, however, that an NHL deal can still be salvaged. "Yeah, I hope so," he said. "Again, right now, it's still time to make a decision; you can say whatever, but next year's schedule is not out yet. So if the schedule is not going to the Olympic Games, then you can see they don't bluff. But again, still long time, still everything can change. But in my mind, like I said already, I'm going. It doesn't matter what." Russian and Capitals teammate Evgeni Kuznetsov echoed Ovechkin, saying he, too, plans to go either way, though he said his thoughts at the moment were elsewhere: on Monday's bomb attacks in St. Petersburg, Russia. "I didn't really pay attention yesterday about that [Olympic announcement] because there were some tough things in St. Petersburg," Kuznetsov said. "But it is what it is. I still hope [the NHL] will let us play. But nothing is going to change from my point of view." Which is to say, he still intends to go. "Of course, if Russia needs us, of course," Kuznetsov said. "It's from the heart for Russian people. We'll see though. Maybe they'll let us go." New Capitals defenseman Kevin Shattenkirk, who played for the U.S. in 2014, also isn't happy with the NHL's decision. "It really seemed like kind of a knee-jerk decision by the NHL to just kibosh it," he said. "I know we really want to go, and I think we deserve to go and the world deserves to see hockey at that level. It's the highest level of hockey that I've ever played at. And it's great for our game. If we can get over there and the next two Olympics are in that part of the world and grow our game even more, I don't see why we wouldn't do it. "Now it just seems like they want to use it as a bargaining chip. That's wrong. That's not what the Olympics is for. The reason we started going was so we could grow the game and show the world how great it is when you get the best players in the world playing against each other. That's what we're trying to achieve with the World Cup, but that's going to take time and this is right in the prime of it. The last Olympics was fantastic, and to just dismiss it, really, without much conversation, is tough." Mike Babcock, two-time Olympic champion coach for Team Canada, made it clear two weeks ago that he felt the NHL should stay in the Games and reiterated that sentiment Tuesday after the morning skate in Toronto. "You've asked me this a million times, and you know the answers to all this. I made it clear a couple of weeks ago what I thought," the Maple Leafs coach said. "I told you already that I'm disappointed. I've been twice. Greatest event you'll ever go to in your life." Capitals goalie Braden Holtby , a shoo-in for Team Canada if the NHL was going, respects what Ovechkin said but doesn't believe he would be willing to go to South Korea if there were no official deal. "I have no idea if guys will or not -- that's a personal decision -- [but] I wouldn't be able to go away from my team here," Holtby said. "I couldn't do it. That's just personal. But everyone's priorities are kind of different. He plays a big role on Team Russia. But as me, I've always liked the group that I've been with through the year. That's my No. 1 focus." Shattenkirk didn't commit to either staying or going, but he doesn't have a problem with a teammate playing. "I'd tip my caps to those guys for doing it, and I think that's something that I'm sure will cause trouble with your team, but if that's your sentiment and that's how you feel, then absolutely, you should honor that and be proud that you did it," he said. "I definitely wouldn't hold anything against you." American superstar Auston Matthews of the Maple Leafs declined to get into the Olympic debate, saying Tuesday morning that his only focus was on that night's game versus Washington. Caps winger T.J. Oshie , a star at the Winter Games in 2014 for his shootout heroics against Russia, remains hopeful that a deal can be struck. "You know what? For me, right now, because it's so fresh, even though we knew this can be a reality, I just for some reason feel we're going to find a way to resolve it," Oshie said. "I just can't imagine us not going. When it comes down to it, I'll make a decision about that, but as of right now, I'm staying positive, hoping we can figure something out." Swedish star Nicklas Backstrom said he was disappointed but was noncommittal when asked whether he'd be willing to go no matter what. "I don't know. We'll see what happens," the Caps center said. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The NHL's not planning to participate in the 2018 Olympics is not fazing Alexander Ovechkin's desire to play in the event. (1:02)

TORONTO -- Alex Ovechkin did not blink Tuesday, saying he still intends to play in the Olympic Games for Russia next year regardless of the NHL's announcement that it was pulling the plug.

"Yeah, I didn't change my mind and I won't," the Washington Capitals superstar captain told a huge media scrum after the morning skate at Air Canada Centre.

"Because it's my country," Ovechkin added. "I think everybody wants to play there. It's the biggest opportunity in your life to play in the Olympic Games. So, I don't know, somebody [is] going to tell me 'don't go,' I don't care, I just go."

He also remains hopeful, however, that an NHL deal can still be salvaged.

Russia forward Pavel Datsyuk (13) and forward Alex Ovechkin (8) laugh as they wait to take a team photo during a training session in advance of the Sochi 2014 Olympic Winter Games at Bolshoy Arena. Scott Rovak/USA TODAY Sports

"Yeah, I hope so," he said. "Again, right now, it's still time to make a decision; you can say whatever, but next year's schedule is not out yet. So if the schedule is not going to the Olympic Games, then you can see they don't bluff. But again, still long time, still everything can change. But in my mind, like I said already, I'm going. It doesn't matter what."

Russian and Capitals teammate Evgeni Kuznetsov echoed Ovechkin, saying he, too, plans to go either way, though he said his thoughts at the moment were elsewhere: on Monday's bomb attacks in St. Petersburg, Russia.

"I didn't really pay attention yesterday about that [Olympic announcement] because there were some tough things in St. Petersburg," Kuznetsov said. "But it is what it is. I still hope [the NHL] will let us play. But nothing is going to change from my point of view."

Editor's Picks Olympics-decision fallout isn't over The NHL's decision to not participate in the 2018 Winter Games could have dramatic consequences regarding its relationship with the NHLPA, labor peace and, oh yeah, the global appeal of the game.

With no NHL in 2018 Games, USA Hockey faces another hurdle After reaching a landmark deal with the U.S. women, USA Hockey seemed poised to yield two gold-contending teams at the 2018 Games. The NHL changed that, delivering the federation yet another hit.

Olympics talks were a bunglefest The IOC and the NHLPA have to be taking a good look in the mirror after the NHL said Monday it will not be going to the Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea. 2 Related

Which is to say, he still intends to go.

"Of course, if Russia needs us, of course," Kuznetsov said. "It's from the heart for Russian people. We'll see though. Maybe they'll let us go."

New Capitals defenseman Kevin Shattenkirk, who played for the U.S. in 2014, also isn't happy with the NHL's decision.

"It really seemed like kind of a knee-jerk decision by the NHL to just kibosh it," he said. "I know we really want to go, and I think we deserve to go and the world deserves to see hockey at that level. It's the highest level of hockey that I've ever played at. And it's great for our game. If we can get over there and the next two Olympics are in that part of the world and grow our game even more, I don't see why we wouldn't do it.

"Now it just seems like they want to use it as a bargaining chip. That's wrong. That's not what the Olympics is for. The reason we started going was so we could grow the game and show the world how great it is when you get the best players in the world playing against each other. That's what we're trying to achieve with the World Cup, but that's going to take time and this is right in the prime of it. The last Olympics was fantastic, and to just dismiss it, really, without much conversation, is tough."

Mike Babcock, two-time Olympic champion coach for Team Canada, made it clear two weeks ago that he felt the NHL should stay in the Games and reiterated that sentiment Tuesday after the morning skate in Toronto.

"You've asked me this a million times, and you know the answers to all this. I made it clear a couple of weeks ago what I thought," the Maple Leafs coach said. "I told you already that I'm disappointed. I've been twice. Greatest event you'll ever go to in your life."

Capitals goalie Braden Holtby, a shoo-in for Team Canada if the NHL was going, respects what Ovechkin said but doesn't believe he would be willing to go to South Korea if there were no official deal.

"I have no idea if guys will or not -- that's a personal decision -- [but] I wouldn't be able to go away from my team here," Holtby said. "I couldn't do it. That's just personal. But everyone's priorities are kind of different. He plays a big role on Team Russia. But as me, I've always liked the group that I've been with through the year. That's my No. 1 focus."

Shattenkirk didn't commit to either staying or going, but he doesn't have a problem with a teammate playing.

"I'd tip my caps to those guys for doing it, and I think that's something that I'm sure will cause trouble with your team, but if that's your sentiment and that's how you feel, then absolutely, you should honor that and be proud that you did it," he said. "I definitely wouldn't hold anything against you."

American superstar Auston Matthews of the Maple Leafs declined to get into the Olympic debate, saying Tuesday morning that his only focus was on that night's game versus Washington. Caps winger T.J. Oshie, a star at the Winter Games in 2014 for his shootout heroics against Russia, remains hopeful that a deal can be struck.

"You know what? For me, right now, because it's so fresh, even though we knew this can be a reality, I just for some reason feel we're going to find a way to resolve it," Oshie said. "I just can't imagine us not going. When it comes down to it, I'll make a decision about that, but as of right now, I'm staying positive, hoping we can figure something out."

Swedish star Nicklas Backstrom said he was disappointed but was noncommittal when asked whether he'd be willing to go no matter what.

"I don't know. We'll see what happens," the Caps center said.