The One Career Lesson My First Job Taught Me
The One Career Lesson My First Job Taught Me
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Moira Forbes       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. No matter your first job, entering the workforce for the first time inevitably entails a steep learning curve that can be as daunting as it is instructive. From sharpening skill sets to navigating the office politics and building your network, the takeaways from those early professional experiences often prove invaluable in shaping your career growth. I asked six trailblazing women to weigh in on the indelible lessons taught by their first job, and how they still draw on them as leaders today. I cut my teeth as a stock analyst at investment banks on Wall Street. I once worked with an analyst who brought in lots of deals, but was also known to be a jerk—abrasive, disrespectful, combative. Despite the success, this person was fired, much to my shock. I had assumed that making money for the bank was paramount. The bank sent a message: no matter how skilled a person is in the job, s/he must contribute positively to others. I learned that cultural fit is the biggest contributor to long-term professional success. This lesson drives my career decisions. Now, when I interview candidates, I find that gauging their interests and work habits is just as important as technical skills.  The “x factor” of a job is not the job itself, but the culture. I want candidates who will thrive at Etsy and become their best selves. When someone on my team says “here I can be me,” I know I’ve chosen well. Kristina Salen, Etsy CFO In my first job as Staff Physician, my boss was an older physician who had little respect for women and women of color in particular. His words and deeds during my very first few weeks at work, made it clear that despite my objective achievements and strong work ethic, he didn’t respect me as a person or as a physician. Honestly, I was devastated and I certainly could have lost my cool --and trust me, he deserved it! However, for many reasons, that would not have been wise. So instead, I respectfully and professionally pushed back and focused my energy on doing everything I could to add significant value to the organization so that he would have an opportunity to say that I wasn’t doing a great job. And guess what, after just 2 ½ years on the job, I became HIS boss! The invaluable lessons I learned from this initial workplace experience continue to serve me very well throughout my life and career. I definitely live by the inimitable words of First Lady Michelle Obama , Very early in my career I thought I had to conform to one style of leadership – lead by being the loudest one in the room, with the sharpest elbows. I’m naturally an introvert, but I forced myself to emulate what I saw others doing. At one point I literally banged my fist on the table to make a point. It was so awkward, for me and everyone else in the room. That was a hard moment, but the harder decision was to stop doing what the successful people around me recommended, and to choose a path that was more authentic to myself. I focused on being a quiet leader – leading with the quality of my ideas and not just their volume – and that’s when my career really started to take off. I had to find my own terms for success, and it wasn’t anything like what I was told to do. Growing up I didn’t know anyone in business. My father was an electrical engineer and my mom a homemaker. I was the first woman in my family to attend college. After college, I worked as an interior designer for an architect in Philadelphia. I led a corporate headquarter redesign project, where I interviewed everyone from the security guard to the CEO. – the different functions and how they came together on behalf of their customers. I also learned what I loved about design –it's about creative problem solving. You have physical and budget constraints and your customers have a long wish list. As a designer, you devise novel solutions within these constraints without losing sight of your customer's vision. I went to business school and studied finance and marketing. In 1999, I joined Amazon and have been there ever since. Every day at Amazon I work with teams to deliver innovative products and services for our customers. I love it. I've been able to go in different directions – launching new businesses, leading a subsidiary and now as technical advisor to our CEO –always with the same focus on customers. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

This post is part of a series, “The One Thing,” where I ask today’s successful leaders to identify the single most important lesson they’ve learned on a given topic.

No matter your first job, entering the workforce for the first time inevitably entails a steep learning curve that can be as daunting as it is instructive. From sharpening skill sets to navigating the office politics and building your network, the takeaways from those early professional experiences often prove invaluable in shaping your career growth. I asked six trailblazing women to weigh in on the indelible lessons taught by their first job, and how they still draw on them as leaders today.

What’s “The One Thing” you learned in your first job that’s been invaluable to you throughout your career?

Attitude is as Important as Aptitude

I cut my teeth as a stock analyst at investment banks on Wall Street. I once worked with an analyst who brought in lots of deals, but was also known to be a jerk—abrasive, disrespectful, combative. Despite the success, this person was fired, much to my shock. I had assumed that making money for the bank was paramount. The bank sent a message: no matter how skilled a person is in the job, s/he must contribute positively to others. I learned that cultural fit is the biggest contributor to long-term professional success.

This lesson drives my career decisions. Working for companies that share my values, where I can be “my full self,” has been key to my development. Now, when I interview candidates, I find that gauging their interests and work habits is just as important as technical skills. The “x factor” of a job is not the job itself, but the culture. I want candidates who will thrive at Etsy and become their best selves. When someone on my team says “here I can be me,” I know I’ve chosen well.

Kristina Salen began her career as an equity analyst at several investment banks and now serves as the CFO of Etsy.

No One Can Cage Your Ambition

In my first job as Staff Physician, my boss was an older physician who had little respect for women and women of color in particular. His words and deeds during my very first few weeks at work, made it clear that despite my objective achievements and strong work ethic, he didn’t respect me as a person or as a physician. Honestly, I was devastated and I certainly could have lost my cool --and trust me, he deserved it! However, for many reasons, that would not have been wise. So instead, I respectfully and professionally pushed back and focused my energy on doing everything I could to add significant value to the organization so that he would never have an opportunity to say that I wasn’t doing a great job. And guess what, after just 2 ½ years on the job, I became HIS boss!

The invaluable lessons I learned from this initial workplace experience continue to serve me very well throughout my life and career. I definitely live by the inimitable words of First Lady Michelle Obama, “When they go low, you go high” because I have first-hand experience that when you do the right thing, good things really do happen!

Dara Richardson-Heron, M.D., is the CEO of YWCA USA and started her career as a staff physician.

Embrace Your Authentic Self

It’s up to you to define your own brand of leadership and your own version of success. Very early in my career I thought I had to conform to one style of leadership – lead by being the loudest one in the room, with the sharpest elbows. I’m naturally an introvert, but I forced myself to emulate what I saw others doing. At one point I literally banged my fist on the table to make a point. It was so awkward, for me and everyone else in the room.

That was a hard moment, but the harder decision was to stop doing what the successful people around me recommended, and to choose a path that was more authentic to myself. I focused on being a quiet leader – leading with the quality of my ideas and not just their volume – and that’s when my career really started to take off. I had to find my own terms for success, and it wasn’t anything like what I was told to do.

Peggy Johnson is the Executive Vice President of Business Development at . In her first job, she worked as a software engineer for the Military Electronics Division.

Ask, Listen, Learn

Growing up I didn’t know anyone in business. My father was an electrical engineer and my mom a homemaker. I was the first woman in my family to attend college.

After college, I worked as an interior designer for an architect in Philadelphia. I led a corporate headquarter redesign project, where I interviewed everyone from the security guard to the CEO. I asked each person what they did and how their departments worked. From those conversations, I learned what business was – the different functions and how they came together on behalf of their customers. I also learned what I loved about design –it's about creative problem solving. You have physical and budget constraints and your customers have a long wish list. As a designer, you devise novel solutions within these constraints without losing sight of your customer's vision.

I went to business school and studied finance and marketing. In 1999, I joined Amazon and have been there ever since. Every day at Amazon I work with teams to deliver innovative products and services for our customers. I love it. I've been able to go in different directions – launching new businesses, leading a subsidiary and now as technical advisor to our CEO –always with the same focus on customers.

Maria Renz is the Vice President and Technical Advisor to the CEO at Amazon and began her career as an interior designer.