Racial Attacks On Africans To Be Taken To UN Human Rights Council + 5 Must Read Stories
Racial Attacks On Africans To Be Taken To UN Human Rights Council + 5 Must Read Stories
Racial Attacks On Africans To Be Taken To UN Human Rights Council + 5 Must Read Stories Ambassadors from African countries have said that India has failed to deter xenophobic and racial attacks against Africans in the country. In their first official reaction since the recent incidents of attacks on Africans in Noida, the Heads of African Mission Accredited to India in a joint statement said India failed to condemn the attacks. Here are the other top stories of the day: Twitter Keeping up the humour quotient, the Indian dairy cooperative Amul, has a brilliant suggestion – Convert 16,000 liquor outlets on highways in to Amul milk bars. You will now be able to visit Malaysia and its neighbouring countries by using just one visa. Malaysia has launched a multiple-entry e-visa for Indian tourists. The multiple entry visa will be valid for 15 days and can be used by Indian tourists to fly to Malaysia, South Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia on their way back. A youth committed suicide by jumping off the Mumbai's Taj Hotel on Monday. Minutes before committing suicide, the deceased, identified as Arjun Bharadwaj had streamed a Facebook Live video which went viral on social media. MBA student Ashwini Bodkurwar (22), the daughter of BJP MLA Sanjivreddi Bodkurwar, was attacked on Monday morning by one of her classmates with a sharp weapon barely a few meters away from the main gate of her college at Tathawade.

Ambassadors from African countries have said that India has failed to deter xenophobic and racial attacks against Africans in the country. In their first official reaction since the recent incidents of attacks on Africans in Noida, the Heads of African Mission Accredited to India in a joint statement said India failed to condemn the attacks. Read more

1) Amul's Brilliant Suggestion Is To Convert Closed Liquor Shops Into Milk Bars For A Healthy Nation

Twitter

Keeping up the humour quotient, the Indian dairy cooperative Amul, has a brilliant suggestion – Convert 16,000 liquor outlets on highways in to Amul milk bars. Read more

2) Now Indians Need 'Schengen' Type One Visa To Visit Malaysia, Indonesia And Singapore

BCCL

You will now be able to visit Malaysia and its neighbouring countries by using just one visa. Malaysia has launched a multiple-entry e-visa for Indian tourists. The multiple entry visa will

be valid for 15 days and can be used by Indian tourists to fly to Malaysia, South Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia on their way back. Read more

3) Mumbai Student Live Streams Suicide on Facebook As He Jumps To Death From Taj Lands End

BCCL

A youth committed suicide by jumping off the Mumbai's Taj Hotel on Monday. Minutes before committing suicide, the deceased, identified as Arjun Bharadwaj had streamed a Facebook Live video which went viral on social media. Read more

4) Stalker-Classmate Attacks Maharashtra MLA's Daughter, Chops Off Her Finger And Breaks Her Teeth

Asianage

MBA student Ashwini Bodkurwar (22), the daughter of BJP MLA Sanjivreddi Bodkurwar, was attacked on Monday morning by one of her classmates with a sharp weapon barely a few meters away from the main gate of her college at Tathawade. Read more

Don't Miss 8.9 K SHARES 48 K SHARES 28.6 K SHARES 29.7 K SHARES

5) IES Officer Arrested For Sexually Abusing JNU Student For The Last Four Years

BCCL

An IES officer has been arrested by the Delhi Police under the POSCO Act. This comes after a JNU student alleged that she had been subjected to sexual abuse by him since 2012. Read more