Videos released by Syrian activists shows aftermath of alleged chemical attack in Syria
Video shows aftermath of alleged Syria chemical attack
Shares               Video released by media activists in Syria shows the moment a hospital treating victims of a suspected chemical attack is hit by airstrikes. The video, taken by local activist Fadi al-Halabi inside a hospital in the northern Syria town of Khan Sheikhoun, was meant to report on the victims of the suspected chemical attack.   While filming, the activists mention in Arabic that they hear warplanes flying overhead before an explosion throws the camera out of focus. After the blasts. the men filmed a short video informing their followers that they were alive and safe. Another video, released by prominent Syrian journalist Hadi al-Abdallah, shows the purported blast site of the chemical attack. Hadi wears a face mask over his mouth and nose as they walks through the site, which appears to be in ruins. He also tours a hospital in Khan Sheikhoun that was allegedly hit by a double-tap airstrike.   Hadi also spoke to White Helmets, who told him that their headquarters was also targeted by airstrikes.     The alleged attack, in the northern Syria town of Khan Sheikhoun, killed at least 58 civilians, including 11 children, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported. Gas that caused victims to choked and faint appeared to be used in the attack, according to the Observatory, a U.K.-based monitoring group, Syria Civil Defense and residents. Several residents were still asleep when the attack happened early Tuesday, Abdullah al-Hussein, a Syria Civil Defense volunteer who was at the scene, told ABC News in a voice recording in Arabic.   Airstrikes later hit a hospital where some of the victims were being treated. Abdullah said he saw more than 100 injured people and at least 20 bodies of children, women and men at one of the hospitals treating victims. White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday that the attack was a "consequence of the past administration's weakness and irresolution," adding that former President Barack Obama "did nothing" after promising in 2012 to establish a "red line" on the use of chemical weapons .   Shares                  Video shows aftermath of alleged Syria chemical attack   White House blames Obama admin for suspected Syria chemical attack   North Korea launches missile into Sea of Japan   Russian investigators confirm subway bombing was a suicide attack   19 companies pull advertising from 'The O'Reilly Factor'   Fox News, dogged by misconduct claims, faces new lawsuits   NCAA satisfied with North Carolina 'bathroom bill' replacement   Trump says he'll fund only shovel-ready infrastructure jobs   VA defends work to fix troubled veteran suicide hotline   Boeing signs $3B deal with Iran airline, a first under Trump   Firefighters honor family that returned lost wallet   Giant panda Tian Tian dangles while climbing tree   Golden retriever catches taco full of spaghetti in midair   3 tiger cubs destined for zoo in Syria rescued in Lebanon   Shark swims up to Melbourne beachgoers   Volunteer baby rockers soothe hospitalized infants   Police dog shows fastest way to capture a suspect   Tearful reunion between a boy and his neighbor's dog after a year apart   JK Rowling gives 'words of wisdom' to emerging writers   Olivia Wilde to make her Broadway debut in play of '1984'   Centennial of US entrance into WWI lures visitors to museum   'That train would have gotten him': Man pulls off subway rescue   US trade deficit drops sharply to $43.6 billion in February   Lawmakers warn UK to assess impact of no-deal Brexit   White House sells changes to health care bill to House Republicans   What you need to know about Equal Pay Day   Inside '13 Reasons Why,' the show that tackles teen suicide   Japan Cabinet allows schools to study banned imperial order   Colombia starts to bury the dead as pressure to find survivors mounts   Kerry Washington on how her 'Scandal' character has changed her   Susan Sarandon addresses alleged feud with Julia Roberts   Inspiring words by King on anniversary of his death

Video released by media activists in Syria shows the moment a hospital treating victims of a suspected chemical attack is hit by airstrikes.

The video, taken by local activist Fadi al-Halabi inside a hospital in the northern Syria town of Khan Sheikhoun, was meant to report on the victims of the suspected chemical attack.

Fadi al-Halabi/Facebook

While filming, the activists mention in Arabic that they hear warplanes flying overhead before an explosion throws the camera out of focus. After the blasts. the men filmed a short video informing their followers that they were alive and safe.

Another video, released by prominent Syrian journalist Hadi al-Abdallah, shows the purported blast site of the chemical attack. Hadi wears a face mask over his mouth and nose as they walks through the site, which appears to be in ruins. He also tours a hospital in Khan Sheikhoun that was allegedly hit by a double-tap airstrike.

Hadi Al-Abdallah/YouTube

Hadi also spoke to White Helmets, who told him that their headquarters was also targeted by airstrikes.

The alleged attack, in the northern Syria town of Khan Sheikhoun, killed at least 58 civilians, including 11 children, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported.

Gas that caused victims to choked and faint appeared to be used in the attack, according to the Observatory, a U.K.-based monitoring group, Syria Civil Defense and residents. Several residents were still asleep when the attack happened early Tuesday, Abdullah al-Hussein, a Syria Civil Defense volunteer who was at the scene, told ABC News in a voice recording in Arabic.

Edlib Media Center, via AP

Airstrikes later hit a hospital where some of the victims were being treated. Abdullah said he saw more than 100 injured people and at least 20 bodies of children, women and men at one of the hospitals treating victims.

White House press secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday that the attack was a "consequence of the past administration's weakness and irresolution," adding that former President Barack Obama "did nothing" after promising in 2012 to establish a "red line" on the use of chemical weapons.