1 in 10 pregnant women with Zika had a fetus or infant with birth defects, CDC says
1 in 10 pregnant women with Zika had a fetus or infant with birth defects, CDC says 
Shares               One in 10 pregnant women with confirmed Zika virus infections had an infant or fetus who showed signs of birth defects, according to a new report from the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention . The CDC released the news today as part of its "Vital Signs" report. Researchers found that of 250 pregnant women who were tested and found positive for Zika infection, 24 had infants or fetuses with birth defects. Among the 972 women who had evidence of possible Zika infection and went on to give birth, the rate of birth defects was approximately 5 percent. The vast majority — about 84 percent — of these birth defects involved brain anomalies, according to the CDC. "Zika virus can be scary and potentially devastating to families. Zika continues to be a threat to pregnant women across the U.S.," CDC acting Director Dr. Anne Schuchat said in a statement today. "With warm weather and a new mosquito season approaching, prevention is crucial to protect the health of mothers and babies. Health care providers can play a key role in prevention efforts." The CDC reported 1,297 pregnant women in 44 states were reportedly possibly infected with the Zika virus, with the vast majority infected while traveling outside the U.S. Testing for the virus is complicated because there is a narrow window when the infection can show up on lab tests.   In the test results available, women infected during their first trimester appeared to be at the most risk for having an infant with a birth defect . Of women with a confirmed Zika infection during the first trimester, 15 percent of the infants or fetuses had Zika-related defects, according to the CDC. While there is no treatment for Zika, health officials recommend that affected pregnant women receive additional monitoring so any birth defects can be found early. However, the CDC said many pregnant women are not being tested. It found no report of Zika testing for approximately 1 in 3 babies who had possible Zika infection in the womb. Additionally, only 1 in 4 babies with possible Zika infection in utero received brain imaging after birth to assess possible defects. Despite a slowdown in the outbreak, CDC officials said that 30 to 40 pregnant women are reported with Zika infections every week and the total number of pregnant women affected is likely more than 1,600. The Zika virus is primarily spread by the Aedes aegypti mosquito and generally causes mild symptoms in adults. But when a pregnant woman is infected, it is associated with her child's having an increased risk of birth defects, including microcephaly , which is characterized by an abnormally small head or brain and can result in diminished mental capacity or other developmental delays. Shares                  1 in 10 pregnant women with Zika had a fetus or infant with birth defects, CDC says   Formerly Conjoined Twins Get Send-Off at Hospital Where They Were Separated   CDC Issues New Vaccine Guidelines for Adults   Facebook Post Helps Toddler Get Kidney From Parents' Former HS Classmate   Flu Takes a Toll in NYC, With 4 Children Reported Dead   Mumps Outbreak Reaches 367 Cases in Washington State   Girl Surprised With Super Bowl Tickets After Being Treated for Rare Cancer   In Chicago, Witnesses to Violence Turn to First Aid to Save Lives   6-Year-Old Girls Link Intelligence to Men Over Women, Study Says   Avian Flu Outbreaks Raise Concerns About Possible Pandemic   Seoul Virus Spread by Pet Rats Under Investigation in Multiple States   Teacher Aide Accused of Faking Cancer to Hide Criminal Past   More Chronically Ill Patients Have Health Insurance After ACA, Study Finds   11-Year-Old Boy Is One of the Youngest to Get Artificial Heart   White House blames Obama admin for suspected Syria chemical attack   North Korea launches missile into Sea of Japan   Russian investigators confirm subway bombing was a suicide attack   22 companies pull advertising from 'The O'Reilly Factor'   Firefighters honor family that returned lost wallet   Giant panda Tian Tian dangles while climbing tree   Golden retriever catches taco full of spaghetti in midair   3 tiger cubs destined for zoo in Syria rescued in Lebanon   Shark swims up to Melbourne beachgoers   Volunteer baby rockers soothe hospitalized infants   Police dog shows fastest way to capture a suspect   Tearful reunion between a boy and his neighbor's dog after a year apart   JK Rowling gives 'words of wisdom' to emerging writers   Olivia Wilde to make her Broadway debut in play of '1984'   Centennial of US entrance into WWI lures visitors to museum

One in 10 pregnant women with confirmed Zika virus infections had an infant or fetus who showed signs of birth defects, according to a new report from the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention.

The CDC released the news today as part of its "Vital Signs" report. Researchers found that of 250 pregnant women who were tested and found positive for Zika infection, 24 had infants or fetuses with birth defects.

Among the 972 women who had evidence of possible Zika infection and went on to give birth, the rate of birth defects was approximately 5 percent. The vast majority — about 84 percent — of these birth defects involved brain anomalies, according to the CDC.

"Zika virus can be scary and potentially devastating to families. Zika continues to be a threat to pregnant women across the U.S.," CDC acting Director Dr. Anne Schuchat said in a statement today. "With warm weather and a new mosquito season approaching, prevention is crucial to protect the health of mothers and babies. Health care providers can play a key role in prevention efforts."

The CDC reported 1,297 pregnant women in 44 states were reportedly possibly infected with the Zika virus, with the vast majority infected while traveling outside the U.S. Testing for the virus is complicated because there is a narrow window when the infection can show up on lab tests.

In the test results available, women infected during their first trimester appeared to be at the most risk for having an infant with a birth defect. Of women with a confirmed Zika infection during the first trimester, 15 percent of the infants or fetuses had Zika-related defects, according to the CDC.

While there is no treatment for Zika, health officials recommend that affected pregnant women receive additional monitoring so any birth defects can be found early.

However, the CDC said many pregnant women are not being tested. It found no report of Zika testing for approximately 1 in 3 babies who had possible Zika infection in the womb. Additionally, only 1 in 4 babies with possible Zika infection in utero received brain imaging after birth to assess possible defects.

Despite a slowdown in the outbreak, CDC officials said that 30 to 40 pregnant women are reported with Zika infections every week and the total number of pregnant women affected is likely more than 1,600.

The Zika virus is primarily spread by the Aedes aegypti mosquito and generally causes mild symptoms in adults. But when a pregnant woman is infected, it is associated with her child's having an increased risk of birth defects, including microcephaly, which is characterized by an abnormally small head or brain and can result in diminished mental capacity or other developmental delays.