Florida Georgia Line & Backstreet Boys Performance Was the Most-Tweeted ACM Awards Moment
Florida Georgia Line & Backstreet Boys Performance Was the Most-Tweeted ACM Awards Moment
Florida Georgia Line & Backstreet Boys Performance Was the Most-Tweeted ACM Awards Moment  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Florida Georgia Line and the Backstreet Boys ' performance of "God, Your Mama and Me" -- and, of course, the boy band's classic "Everybody (Backstreet's Back)" -- at the 52nd Academy of Country Music Awards on Sunday was the night's most-tweeted event, according to Twitter.Â With Jason Aldean winning the night's entertainer of the year award and Thomas Rhett taking home the song of the year award both receiving some significant attention on the social media network, the event made a considerable splash online. The pre-show itself garnered 3.1 million unique viewers on its exclusive Twitter live stream. Meanwhile, Miranda Lambert , Rhett and Carrie Underwood were the night's most-tweeted stars, and posts from Rhett and host Luke Bryan received the most love in the form of retweets.  See all the night's most engaging moments here: 1. Florida Georgia Line & Backstreet Boys perform "God, Your Mama, And Me" 2. Jason Aldean takes home entertainer of the year 3. Thomas Rhett wins song of the year Â Â 1. @MirandaLambert 2. @ThomasRhett 3. @CarrieUnderwood Â 1. This moment. Every time. #ACMs  https://t.co/9zGPXrK8u5 2.Â Yep. Watch pic.twitter.com/JR6FHgbFE3 3. #ACMs  pic.twitter.com/GPZDgP0O4k  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Brian Kelley and Tyler Hubbard of Florida Georgia Line perform with AJ McLean, Brian Littrell, and Howie D. of Backstreet Boys onstage during the 52nd Academy Of Country Music Awards at T-Mobile Arena on April 2, 2017 in Las Vegas.

Florida Georgia Line and the Backstreet Boys' performance of "God, Your Mama and Me" -- and, of course, the boy band's classic "Everybody (Backstreet's Back)" -- at the 52nd Academy of Country Music Awards on Sunday was the night's most-tweeted event, according to Twitter.Â

With Jason Aldean winning the night's entertainer of the year award and Thomas Rhett taking home the song of the year award both receiving some significant attention on the social media network, the event made a considerable splash online. The ACM Red Carpet Live pre-show itself garnered 3.1 million unique viewers on its exclusive Twitter live stream.

Meanwhile, Miranda Lambert, Rhett and Carrie Underwood were the night's most-tweeted stars, and posts from Rhett and host Luke Bryan received the most love in the form of retweets.

See all the night's most engaging moments here:

The most-tweeted moments of the evening:

1. Florida Georgia Line & Backstreet Boys perform "God, Your Mama, And Me"

2. Jason Aldean takes home entertainer of the year

3. Thomas Rhett wins song of the year Â

Â

The most-tweeted-about stars during the show:

1. @MirandaLambert

2. @ThomasRhett

3. @CarrieUnderwood

Â

Most RT'd tweets of the night:

1.

2.Â

3.

The ACM Awards are produced by dick clark productions. DCP is part of Eldridge Industries, the U.S. holding company whose assets also include the Hollywood Reporter-Billboard Media Group.