The Internet Can't Keep Calm Over Michelle Obama's Photo In Her Natural Hair
The Internet Can't Keep Calm Over Michelle Obama's Photo In Her Natural Hair
The Internet Can't Keep Calm Over Michelle Obama's Photo In Her Natural Hair Former US First Lady, Michelle Obama has been photographed in her natural hair for the first time in 8 years of keeping it straight in the White House. It's been months that the Obamas left the White House, but the fans just keep themselves away from following them. Michelle Obama was photographed with husband and former US President Barack Obama sporting natural hair and as expected, the photo went viral on social media, gathering all the praise. Michelle has an immensely high approval ratings with the US public and has been lauded for the image which has been liked for over 84,000 times and retweeted over 30,000 times since it was shared by a fan. People have praised Michelle on Twitter and have called her a role-model. One fan said: “Seeing Michelle Obama's natural hair is life changing".  This is the picuture I have been waiting on for like 3 years. COME ON NATURAL. pic.twitter.com/HF8AYpsciB  Seeing Michelle Obama wear her hair natural while serving as First Lady... would've made my whole life  Michelle Obama looked SOOOOO fucking amazing with her natural hair omg <333 Some people said they had been waiting for this moment all this while.

Former US First Lady, Michelle Obama has been photographed in her natural hair for the first time in 8 years of keeping it straight in the White House.

It's been months that the Obamas left the White House, but the fans just keep themselves away from following them.

Michelle Obama was photographed with husband and former US President Barack Obama sporting natural hair and as expected, the photo went viral on social media, gathering all the praise.

Michelle has an immensely high approval ratings with the US public and has been lauded for the image which has been liked for over 84,000 times and retweeted over 30,000 times since it was shared by a fan.

People have praised Michelle on Twitter and have called her a role-model. One fan said: “Seeing Michelle Obama's natural hair is life changing".

This is the picuture I have been waiting on for like 3 years. COME ON NATURAL. pic.twitter.com/HF8AYpsciB — gif sommelier (@meagnacarta) April 2, 2017

Seeing Michelle Obama wear her hair natural while serving as First Lady... would've made my whole life — rhy t✨ (@rhytaylorr) April 3, 2017

Michelle Obama looked SOOOOO fucking amazing with her natural hair omg <333 — BeyAndre 3000 (@Luge_Knight) April 5, 2017

Some people said they had been waiting for this moment all this while.

Don't Miss 37.6 K SHARES 7.6 K SHARES 30.2 K SHARES 28.7 K SHARES 27.9 K SHARES