Conor McGregor's Coach Reveals How the UFC Fighter Is Training for Floyd Mayweather
Conor McGregor's Coach Reveals How the UFC Fighter Is Training for Floyd Mayweather
On April Fool’s Day, Conor McGregor ’s coach John Kavanagh trolled all of his Twitter followers by sending out a tweet about how the Conor McGregor/ Floyd Mayweather fight had been confirmed: Finally the news is confirmed. Conor v Mayweather. Let's do this! 👊👊👊 He quickly followed it up with this: Slightly unusual rule set. Me and conor v him and his dad. Hell in a Cell, no holds barred. My prediction? PAIN. But there were a lot of people that fell for his original tweet anyway, and they were upset when they found out that the McGregor/Mayweather fight was on. On Tuesday, Kavanagh made it up to those people during an interview with Fox Sports in Australia . He revealed that, while the fight is still not officially on, he and McGregor have put their MMA training on hold for now to focus on preparing for the potential fight with Mayweather. And he went as far as to say that he’s convinced the fight happen, even though it’s taking time to work out the logistics of it. "In my mind, it’s on," he said. "That’s the mentality we’re in…There’s a lot of fingers in the pie on this one. There’s different promotions, different organizations, different commissions that are involved, but as far as I’m concerned, I really believe it’s going to happen this year. That’s the mindset I have. Let the people in the suits worry about the paperwork. We’re training for it." Kavanagh then admitted that training for a fight with Mayweather will be a tall task. But he said that one advantage McGregor will have while training for it is that he won’t have to focus on all the skills he usually has to focus on while training for an MMA fight. He can simply focus on boxing while preparing for his match with Mayweather. "Boxing is one of the 10 skills you need for mixed martial arts," he said. "But now we’re only doing boxing so we can drop wrestling and jiu-jitsu and Thai boxing. We can just focus on boxing. So of course we’re getting ready to fight arguably one of the best defensive boxers of all time, but the training will become simplified ‘cause we only have to do boxing, so it’s a new challenge I’m excited about." Of course, none of this means the fight is definitely happening. But the fact that it sounds like McGregor is training is encouraging to say the least.

On April Fool’s Day, Conor McGregor’s coach John Kavanagh trolled all of his Twitter followers by sending out a tweet about how the Conor McGregor/Floyd Mayweather fight had been confirmed:

Finally the news is confirmed. Conor v Mayweather. Let's do this! 👊👊👊 — Coach Kavanagh (@John_Kavanagh) April 1, 2017

He quickly followed it up with this:

Slightly unusual rule set. Me and conor v him and his dad. Hell in a Cell, no holds barred. My prediction? PAIN. — Coach Kavanagh (@John_Kavanagh) April 1, 2017

But there were a lot of people that fell for his original tweet anyway, and they were upset when they found out that the McGregor/Mayweather fight was not on.

On Tuesday, Kavanagh made it up to those people during an interview with Fox Sports in Australia. He revealed that, while the fight is still not officially on, he and McGregor have put their MMA training on hold for now to focus on preparing for the potential fight with Mayweather. And he went as far as to say that he’s convinced the fight will happen, even though it’s taking time to work out the logistics of it.

"In my mind, it’s on," he said. "That’s the mentality we’re in…There’s a lot of fingers in the pie on this one. There’s different promotions, different organizations, different commissions that are involved, but as far as I’m concerned, I really believe it’s going to happen this year. That’s the mindset I have. Let the people in the suits worry about the paperwork. We’re training for it."

Kavanagh then admitted that training for a fight with Mayweather will be a tall task. But he said that one advantage McGregor will have while training for it is that he won’t have to focus on all the skills he usually has to focus on while training for an MMA fight. He can simply focus on boxing while preparing for his match with Mayweather.

"Boxing is one of the 10 skills you need for mixed martial arts," he said. "But now we’re only doing boxing so we can drop wrestling and jiu-jitsu and Thai boxing. We can just focus on boxing. So of course we’re getting ready to fight arguably one of the best defensive boxers of all time, but the training will become simplified ‘cause we only have to do boxing, so it’s a new challenge I’m excited about."

Of course, none of this means the fight is definitely happening. But the fact that it sounds like McGregor is training is encouraging to say the least.