Unexplained radio signals are definitely coming from space, scientists reveal
Unexplained radio signals are definitely coming from space, scientists reveal
@_andrew_griffin  Scientists have confirmed that the most mysterious signal in the universe is coming from space. Fast Radio Bursts – the strange signals that are occasionally sent down to Earth – have been pinned down to everything from aliens to a measuring mistake. But researchers have now ruled out the most down-to-Earth explanation, that the signals aren't actually coming from space but from interference on Earth. New work confirms that the mysterious bursts of radio waves, tracked over ten years, are actually coming from somewhere else in the universe. Nasa's most stunning pictures of space               Nasa's most stunning pictures of space    Earth from the ISS   From the International Space Station, Expedition 42 Flight Engineer Terry W. Virts took this photograph of the Gulf of Mexico and U.S. Gulf Coast at sunset   Nasa     Frosty slopes of Mars   This image of an area on the surface of Mars, approximately 1.5 by 3 kilometers in size, shows frosted gullies on a south-facing slope within a crater. The image was taken by Nasa's HiRISE camera, which is mounted on its Mars Reconaissance Orbiter   Nasa     Orion Capsule splashes down   The Orion capsule jetted off into space before heading back a few hours later — having proved that it can be used, one day, to carry humans to Mars   Nasa     The Soyuz TMA-15M rocket launch   The Soyuz TMA-15M rocket launches from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on Monday, Nov. 24, 2014, carrying three new astronauts to the International Space Station. It also took caviar, ready for the satellite's inhabitants to celebrate the holidays   Nasa     Yellowstone from space   NASA astronaut Reid Wiseman shared this image of Yellowstone via his twitter account   Nasa     Black Hole Friday   Nasa celebrated Black Friday by looking into space instead — sharing pictures of black holes   Nasa     NuSTAR   X-rays stream off the sun in this image showing observations from by NASA's Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array, or NuSTAR, overlaid on a picture taken by NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO)   Nasa     Saturn   This near-infrared color image shows a specular reflection, or sunglint, off of a hydrocarbon lake named Kivu Lacus on Saturn's moon Titan   Nasa     Worlds Apart   Although Mimas and Pandora, shown here, both orbit Saturn, they are very different moons. Pandora, "small" by moon standards (50 miles or 81 kilometers across) is elongated and irregular in shape. Mimas (246 miles or 396 kilometers across), a "medium-sized" moon, formed into a sphere due to self-gravity imposed by its higher mass   Nasa     Solar Flare   An X1.6 class solar flare flashes in the middle of the sun in this image taken 10 September, captured by NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory   Nasa     Solar Flare   An image from Nasa's Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO) shows a 200,000 mile long solar filament ripping through the Sun's corona in September 2013   Nasa     Cassiopeia A c   A false colour image of Cassiopeia A comprised with data from the Spitzer and Hubble Space Telescopes and the Chandra X-Ray observatory   Nasa     Large Magellanic Cloud galaxy   An image of the Large Magellanic Cloud galaxy seen in infrared light by the Herschel Space Observatory. Regions of space such as this are where new stars are born from a mixture of elements and cosmic dust   Nasa     Mars Rover Spirit   Nasa's Mars Rover Spirit took the first picture from Spirit since problems with communications began a week earlier. The image shows the robotic arm extended to the rock called Adirondack   Nasa     Morning Aurora From the Space Station   Nasa astronaut Scott Kelly captured this photograph of the green lights of the aurora from the International Space Station      Launch of History - Making STS-41G Mission in 1984   The Space Shuttle Challenger launches from Florida at dawn. On this mission, Kathryn Sullivan became the first U.S. woman to perform a spacewalk and Marc Garneau became the first Canadian in space. The crew of seven was the largest to fly on a spacecraft at that time, and STS-41G was the first flight to include two female astronauts      A Fresh Perspective on an Extraordinary Cluster of Galaxies   Galaxy clusters are often described by superlatives. After all, they are huge conglomerations of galaxies, hot gas, and dark matter and represent the largest structures in the Universe held together by gravity      Veil Nebula Supernova Remnant   Nasa's Hubble Space Telescope has unveiled in stunning detail a small section of the Veil Nebula - expanding remains of a massive star that exploded about 8,000 years ago      Hubble Sees a Galactic Sunflower   The arrangement of the spiral arms in the galaxy Messier 63, seen here in an image from the Nasa Hubble Space Telescope, recall the pattern at the center of a sunflower      A Hubble Cosmic Couple   The spectacular cosmic pairing of the star Hen 2-427 — more commonly known as WR 124 — and the nebula M1-67 which surrounds it      Pluto image   Four images from New Horizons’ Long Range Reconnaissance Imager (LORRI) were combined with colour data from the Ralph instrument to create this enhanced colour global view of Pluto      Fresh Crater Near Sirenum Fossae Region of Mars   The HiRISE camera aboard Nasa's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter acquired this closeup image of a "fresh" (on a geological scale, though quite old on a human scale) impact crater in the Sirenum Fossae region of Mars. This impact crater appears relatively recent as it has a sharp rim and well-preserved ejecta      Earth Observations From Gemini IV in 1965   This photograph of the Florida Straits and Grand Bahama Bank was taken during the Gemini IV mission during orbit no. 19 in 1965. The Gemini IV crew conducted scientific experiments, including photography of Earth's weather and terrain, for the remainder of their four-day mission following Ed White's historic spacewalk on June 3      Nasa Celebrates 50 Years of Spacewalking   For 50 years, NASA has been "suiting up" for spacewalking. In this 1984 photograph of the first untethered spacewalk, NASA astronaut Bruce McCandless is in the midst of the first "field" tryout of a nitrogen-propelled backpack device called the Manned Maneuvering Unit (MMU)      Hubble Peers into the Most Crowded Place in the Milky Way   This Nasa Hubble Space Telescope image presents the Arches Cluster, the densest known star cluster in the Milky Way      An Astronaut's View from Space   Nasa astronaut Reid Wiseman tweeted this photo from the International Space Station on 2 September 2014      Giant Landform on Mars   On Mars, we can observe four classes of sandy landforms formed by the wind, or aeolian bedforms: ripples, transverse aeolian ridges, dunes, and what are called “draa”      Expedition 39 Landing   A sokol suit helmet can be seen against the window of the Soyuz TMA-11M capsule shortly after the spacecraft landed with Expedition 39 Commander Koichi Wakata of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA), Soyuz Commander Mikhail Tyurin of Roscosmos, and Flight Engineer Rick Mastracchio of NASA near the town of Zhezkazgan, Kazakhstan      Jupiter's Great Red Spot Viewed by Voyager I   Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system and perhaps the most majestic. Vibrant bands of clouds carried by winds that can exceed 400 mph continuously circle the planet's atmosphere      Chandra Observatory Sees a Heart in the Darkness   This Chandra X-Ray Observatory image of the young star cluster NGC 346 highlights a heart-shaped cloud of 8 million-degree Celsius gas in the central region   Fast Radio Burst, or FRBs, were first found ten years ago. They last for only a fraction of a second but seem to be coming from vast distances away, and are a billion times brighter than anything we've seen in our own Milky Way. The bizarre signals – and the fact that they appear to line up in a peculiar arrangement, and come from one specific place – have led some to suggest that they might even be messages from aliens.   Scientists hear ‘huge’, mysterious signal from deep in space But others explained them by suggesting that they could be local interference, tricking astronomers into thinking they had found the unusual messages. In 2015, for instance, it emerged that researchers had actually detected their own microwave in one experiment , rather than the mysterious message from aliens they thought they found. But the new work proves that the messages do in fact originate outside the Earth's atmosphere. The scientists came to the conclusion after detecting three of the FRBs using the Molonglo radio telescope that sits outside Canberra, in Australia. That telescope has a huge focal length, which allows it to look at large parts of the sky. That makes it excellent for catching Fast Radio Bursts, which come only intermittently. Manisha Caleb, a PhD candidate at Australian National University, Swinburne University of Technology and the ARC Centre of Excellence for All-sky Astrophysics (Caastro), confirmed that their messages were extraterrestrial by re-engineering that telescope and sifting through the 1000 TB of data that it provides each day – finding three new Fast Radio Bursts, all of which definitely came from space. Scientists will now work to further understand where those messages are coming from. One of the bursts has already been pinned down to a specific galaxy , but far more remain mysterious – and the Molonglo telescope is expected to find the source of more bursts in the future. More about: Fast radio bursts Comments

Scientists have confirmed that the most mysterious signal in the universe is coming from space.

Fast Radio Bursts – the strange signals that are occasionally sent down to Earth – have been pinned down to everything from aliens to a measuring mistake. But researchers have now ruled out the most down-to-Earth explanation, that the signals aren't actually coming from space but from interference on Earth.

New work confirms that the mysterious bursts of radio waves, tracked over ten years, are actually coming from somewhere else in the universe.

Nasa's most stunning pictures of space







+ show all Nasa's most stunning pictures of space

























































1/30 Earth from the ISS From the International Space Station, Expedition 42 Flight Engineer Terry W. Virts took this photograph of the Gulf of Mexico and U.S. Gulf Coast at sunset Nasa

2/30 Frosty slopes of Mars This image of an area on the surface of Mars, approximately 1.5 by 3 kilometers in size, shows frosted gullies on a south-facing slope within a crater. The image was taken by Nasa's HiRISE camera, which is mounted on its Mars Reconaissance Orbiter Nasa

3/30 Orion Capsule splashes down The Orion capsule jetted off into space before heading back a few hours later — having proved that it can be used, one day, to carry humans to Mars Nasa

4/30 The Soyuz TMA-15M rocket launch The Soyuz TMA-15M rocket launches from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on Monday, Nov. 24, 2014, carrying three new astronauts to the International Space Station. It also took caviar, ready for the satellite's inhabitants to celebrate the holidays Nasa

5/30 Yellowstone from space NASA astronaut Reid Wiseman shared this image of Yellowstone via his twitter account Nasa

6/30 Black Hole Friday Nasa celebrated Black Friday by looking into space instead — sharing pictures of black holes Nasa

7/30 NuSTAR X-rays stream off the sun in this image showing observations from by NASA's Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array, or NuSTAR, overlaid on a picture taken by NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO) Nasa

8/30 Saturn This near-infrared color image shows a specular reflection, or sunglint, off of a hydrocarbon lake named Kivu Lacus on Saturn's moon Titan Nasa

9/30 Worlds Apart Although Mimas and Pandora, shown here, both orbit Saturn, they are very different moons. Pandora, "small" by moon standards (50 miles or 81 kilometers across) is elongated and irregular in shape. Mimas (246 miles or 396 kilometers across), a "medium-sized" moon, formed into a sphere due to self-gravity imposed by its higher mass Nasa

10/30 Solar Flare An X1.6 class solar flare flashes in the middle of the sun in this image taken 10 September, captured by NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory Nasa

11/30 Solar Flare An image from Nasa's Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO) shows a 200,000 mile long solar filament ripping through the Sun's corona in September 2013 Nasa

12/30 Cassiopeia A c A false colour image of Cassiopeia A comprised with data from the Spitzer and Hubble Space Telescopes and the Chandra X-Ray observatory Nasa

13/30 Large Magellanic Cloud galaxy An image of the Large Magellanic Cloud galaxy seen in infrared light by the Herschel Space Observatory. Regions of space such as this are where new stars are born from a mixture of elements and cosmic dust Nasa

14/30 Mars Rover Spirit Nasa's Mars Rover Spirit took the first picture from Spirit since problems with communications began a week earlier. The image shows the robotic arm extended to the rock called Adirondack Nasa

15/30 Morning Aurora From the Space Station Nasa astronaut Scott Kelly captured this photograph of the green lights of the aurora from the International Space Station

16/30 Launch of History - Making STS-41G Mission in 1984 The Space Shuttle Challenger launches from Florida at dawn. On this mission, Kathryn Sullivan became the first U.S. woman to perform a spacewalk and Marc Garneau became the first Canadian in space. The crew of seven was the largest to fly on a spacecraft at that time, and STS-41G was the first flight to include two female astronauts

17/30 A Fresh Perspective on an Extraordinary Cluster of Galaxies Galaxy clusters are often described by superlatives. After all, they are huge conglomerations of galaxies, hot gas, and dark matter and represent the largest structures in the Universe held together by gravity

18/30 Veil Nebula Supernova Remnant Nasa's Hubble Space Telescope has unveiled in stunning detail a small section of the Veil Nebula - expanding remains of a massive star that exploded about 8,000 years ago

19/30 Hubble Sees a Galactic Sunflower The arrangement of the spiral arms in the galaxy Messier 63, seen here in an image from the Nasa Hubble Space Telescope, recall the pattern at the center of a sunflower

20/30 A Hubble Cosmic Couple The spectacular cosmic pairing of the star Hen 2-427 — more commonly known as WR 124 — and the nebula M1-67 which surrounds it

21/30 Pluto image Four images from New Horizons’ Long Range Reconnaissance Imager (LORRI) were combined with colour data from the Ralph instrument to create this enhanced colour global view of Pluto

22/30 Fresh Crater Near Sirenum Fossae Region of Mars The HiRISE camera aboard Nasa's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter acquired this closeup image of a "fresh" (on a geological scale, though quite old on a human scale) impact crater in the Sirenum Fossae region of Mars. This impact crater appears relatively recent as it has a sharp rim and well-preserved ejecta

23/30 Earth Observations From Gemini IV in 1965 This photograph of the Florida Straits and Grand Bahama Bank was taken during the Gemini IV mission during orbit no. 19 in 1965. The Gemini IV crew conducted scientific experiments, including photography of Earth's weather and terrain, for the remainder of their four-day mission following Ed White's historic spacewalk on June 3

24/30 Nasa Celebrates 50 Years of Spacewalking For 50 years, NASA has been "suiting up" for spacewalking. In this 1984 photograph of the first untethered spacewalk, NASA astronaut Bruce McCandless is in the midst of the first "field" tryout of a nitrogen-propelled backpack device called the Manned Maneuvering Unit (MMU)

25/30 Hubble Peers into the Most Crowded Place in the Milky Way This Nasa Hubble Space Telescope image presents the Arches Cluster, the densest known star cluster in the Milky Way

26/30 An Astronaut's View from Space Nasa astronaut Reid Wiseman tweeted this photo from the International Space Station on 2 September 2014

27/30 Giant Landform on Mars On Mars, we can observe four classes of sandy landforms formed by the wind, or aeolian bedforms: ripples, transverse aeolian ridges, dunes, and what are called “draa”

28/30 Expedition 39 Landing A sokol suit helmet can be seen against the window of the Soyuz TMA-11M capsule shortly after the spacecraft landed with Expedition 39 Commander Koichi Wakata of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA), Soyuz Commander Mikhail Tyurin of Roscosmos, and Flight Engineer Rick Mastracchio of NASA near the town of Zhezkazgan, Kazakhstan

29/30 Jupiter's Great Red Spot Viewed by Voyager I Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system and perhaps the most majestic. Vibrant bands of clouds carried by winds that can exceed 400 mph continuously circle the planet's atmosphere

30/30 Chandra Observatory Sees a Heart in the Darkness This Chandra X-Ray Observatory image of the young star cluster NGC 346 highlights a heart-shaped cloud of 8 million-degree Celsius gas in the central region

Fast Radio Burst, or FRBs, were first found ten years ago. They last for only a fraction of a second but seem to be coming from vast distances away, and are a billion times brighter than anything we've seen in our own Milky Way.

The bizarre signals – and the fact that they appear to line up in a peculiar arrangement, and come from one specific place – have led some to suggest that they might even be messages from aliens.

But others explained them by suggesting that they could be local interference, tricking astronomers into thinking they had found the unusual messages. In 2015, for instance, it emerged that researchers had actually detected their own microwave in one experiment, rather than the mysterious message from aliens they thought they found.

But the new work proves that the messages do in fact originate outside the Earth's atmosphere. The scientists came to the conclusion after detecting three of the FRBs using the Molonglo radio telescope that sits outside Canberra, in Australia.

SpaceX launch used rocket in world first

That telescope has a huge focal length, which allows it to look at large parts of the sky. That makes it excellent for catching Fast Radio Bursts, which come only intermittently.

Manisha Caleb, a PhD candidate at Australian National University, Swinburne University of Technology and the ARC Centre of Excellence for All-sky Astrophysics (Caastro), confirmed that their messages were extraterrestrial by re-engineering that telescope and sifting through the 1000 TB of data that it provides each day – finding three new Fast Radio Bursts, all of which definitely came from space.

Artist’s impression shows three bright red flashes depicting fast radio bursts far beyond the Milky Way, appearing in the constellations Puppis and Hydra (James Josephides/Mike Dalley)

Scientists will now work to further understand where those messages are coming from. One of the bursts has already been pinned down to a specific galaxy, but far more remain mysterious – and the Molonglo telescope is expected to find the source of more bursts in the future.