Girl Had A Perfect Response When Asked Why She Wanted A Black Doll
Girl Had A Perfect Response When Asked Why She Wanted A Black Doll
When questioned about her heart’s desire, this toddler had a sick response. Brandi Benner of Clover, South Carolina, has a 2-year-old daughter named Sophia who really wants to be a doctor when she grows up. Benner told The Huffington Post that Sophia is a big fan of the children’s show “Doc McStuffins” and takes her interest in medicine very seriously. “She calls herself ‘Dr. Sophia,’” Benner told HuffPost. “Everyone in the house gets several checkups a day from her.” According to Benner, a Dr. Sophia checkup includes listening to patients’ hearts with a toy stethoscope, checking for butterflies or bunnies in their ears with an otoscope and, of course, giving everyone a shot. Benner also said that her young daughter uses the correct names for all her play medical tools. “The obsession is real,” she said. On March 31, Benner took Sophia to Target to buy her a reward for using the potty for a month. In the toy aisle, Sophia was naturally drawn to one doll in particular: a girl in a white lab coat with a stethoscope around her neck. According to a Facebook post Benner wrote about their visit to Target — which has gone viral , receiving over 520,000 likes and 200,000 shares — while the mother and Sophia were checking out, the cashier asked Sophia if she was buying the doll for a friend. Sophia told the cashier the doll was for her and was a reward for learning how to use the toilet. Benner wrote that the cashier then said: “But she doesn’t look like you. We have lots of other dolls that look more like you.” And Sophia shot back with: “Yes, she does. She’s a doctor like I’m a doctor. And I’m a pretty girl and she’s a pretty girl. See her pretty hair? And see her stethoscope?” Benner told HuffPost that her daughter’s explanation brought a smile to her face. “Proud doesn’t even begin to describe it,” she told HuffPost. The doll is now one of Sophia’s favorites. “She named her Meagann Cece,” Benner told HuffPost. “Sophia now requires that Meagann come everywhere with her, including the bathroom. Which is only fitting, I guess.” As for Target, a company representative told HuffPost that it wants “to create an environment where guests feel welcomed, valued, and respected.” Target added: “We’re aware of this situation and will use it as a training opportunity with our team.” MORE:

When questioned about her heart’s desire, this toddler had a sick response.

Brandi Benner of Clover, South Carolina, has a 2-year-old daughter named Sophia who really wants to be a doctor when she grows up. Benner told The Huffington Post that Sophia is a big fan of the children’s show “Doc McStuffins” and takes her interest in medicine very seriously.

“She calls herself ‘Dr. Sophia,’” Benner told HuffPost. “Everyone in the house gets several checkups a day from her.”

Brandi Benner Dr. Sophia with her practice.

According to Benner, a Dr. Sophia checkup includes listening to patients’ hearts with a toy stethoscope, checking for butterflies or bunnies in their ears with an otoscope and, of course, giving everyone a shot. Benner also said that her young daughter uses the correct names for all her play medical tools.

“The obsession is real,” she said.

On March 31, Benner took Sophia to Target to buy her a reward for using the potty for a month.

In the toy aisle, Sophia was naturally drawn to one doll in particular: a girl in a white lab coat with a stethoscope around her neck.

According to a Facebook post Benner wrote about their visit to Target — which has gone viral, receiving over 520,000 likes and 200,000 shares — while the mother and Sophia were checking out, the cashier asked Sophia if she was buying the doll for a friend. Sophia told the cashier the doll was for her and was a reward for learning how to use the toilet.

Benner wrote that the cashier then said: “But she doesn’t look like you. We have lots of other dolls that look more like you.”

And Sophia shot back with: “Yes, she does. She’s a doctor like I’m a doctor. And I’m a pretty girl and she’s a pretty girl. See her pretty hair? And see her stethoscope?”

Benner told HuffPost that her daughter’s explanation brought a smile to her face.

Proud doesn’t even begin to describe it. Brandi Benner said of her daughter's response

“Proud doesn’t even begin to describe it,” she told HuffPost.

The doll is now one of Sophia’s favorites.

“She named her Meagann Cece,” Benner told HuffPost. “Sophia now requires that Meagann come everywhere with her, including the bathroom. Which is only fitting, I guess.”

As for Target, a company representative told HuffPost that it wants “to create an environment where guests feel welcomed, valued, and respected.”