WhatsApp Appears To Be Prepping A Payments Service For India
WhatsApp Appears To Be Prepping A Payments Service For India
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Parmy Olson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photo: INDRANIL MUKHERJEE/AFP/Getty Images A woman checks her phone while walking through a business district in Mumbai. WhatsApp could soon introduce a payments function in India, its first-such offering anywhere in the world and potentially open the door a little wider to bringing businesses onto its network. The world’s most popular messaging app, used by more than a billion people, is currently advertising for “Digital Transactions Lead” on its careers page , a role that would be based in India and requires an understanding of the country’s new, government backed payments standard, UPI. via blog.whatsapp.com India might just be WhatsApp's most important market, making up roughly 15% of its global user base. The company's head of business development Neeraj Arora was in New Delhi to announce WhatsApp's new video calling service in November 2016, and the main blog post announcing the news featured Indian models. WhatsApp intends to piggyback on the UPI standard to roll out a peer-to-peer payments service like Venmo for its 200 million users in India within the next six months, according to a Tuesday report in The Ken , an Indian, subscription-based news site that also cited four sources with knowledge of the matter. This would be the first time WhatsApp introduces a payments service and could tie in with the company’s plans to invite businesses on the platform to chat with customers. If you can send money to a friend on WhatsApp, why not pay for a service or product with the app too? WhatsApp said more than a year ago that it would start working with businesses to test ways they could chat to people on the platform, though nothing substantial has come from that yet. One reason may be that WhatsApp is trying to avoid the possibilities of spam on the app, according to a recent Reuters report . WhatsApp is also targeting India to debut a new commercial messaging version of its app called "WhatsApp for Business," the company’s co-founder Brian Acton told The Hindustan Times during a visited to New Delhi in February. The platform will be for “very small businesses, employing less than 10 people,” said Acton, adding that it could help with managing customer contact lists or multi-agent support. In a separate interview with the Indian press, Acton said he had spoken with the government's information technology minister Ravi Shankar about digital payments in India, and that WhatsApp was "in the early stages of investigating" digital payments. Photo via twitter.com/rsprasad WhatsApp co-founder Brian Acton meeting with India’s minister of information technology, Ravi Shankar in February 2017. The two spoke about digital payments. UPI, or the Unified Payments Interface, is a government backed, interbank system that uses a “virtual payment address,” which looks a bit like an email address, to identify customers from different banks. Some of India’s biggest lenders, including the State Bank of India, ICICI Bank and Punjab National Bank, have apps that already work with the system . A payments service could be crucial to help WhatsApp maintain its dominance in India, where it competes with Hike and Snapchat. Truecaller, an app originally built to filter spam calls but is turning into an alternative communication hub in its own right, announced last week that it was rolling out a payments service in India, and plugging into the UPI platform through a partnership with ICICI Bank. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Photo: INDRANIL MUKHERJEE/AFP/Getty Images

WhatsApp could soon introduce a payments function in India, its first-such offering anywhere in the world and potentially open the door a little wider to bringing businesses onto its network.

The world’s most popular messaging app, used by more than a billion people, is currently advertising for “Digital Transactions Lead” on its careers page, a role that would be based in India and requires an understanding of the country’s new, government backed payments standard, UPI.

via blog.whatsapp.com

WhatsApp intends to piggyback on the UPI standard to roll out a peer-to-peer payments service like Venmo for its 200 million users in India within the next six months, according to a Tuesday report in The Ken, an Indian, subscription-based news site that also cited four sources with knowledge of the matter.

This would be the first time WhatsApp introduces a payments service and could tie in with the company’s plans to invite businesses on the platform to chat with customers. If you can send money to a friend on WhatsApp, why not pay for a service or product with the app too?

WhatsApp said more than a year ago that it would start working with businesses to test ways they could chat to people on the platform, though nothing substantial has come from that yet. One reason may be that WhatsApp is trying to avoid the possibilities of spam on the app, according to a recent Reuters report.

WhatsApp is also targeting India to debut a new commercial messaging version of its app called "WhatsApp for Business," the company’s co-founder Brian Acton told The Hindustan Times during a visited to New Delhi in February. The platform will be for “very small businesses, employing less than 10 people,” said Acton, adding that it could help with managing customer contact lists or multi-agent support.

“We built this for India,” he said, “and the users can give us feedback on how to make this product better, and then we will take it to Brazil and Indonesia.”

In a separate interview with the Indian press, Acton said he had spoken with the government's information technology minister Ravi Shankar about digital payments in India, and that WhatsApp was "in the early stages of investigating" digital payments.

Photo via twitter.com/rsprasad

The Indian government has strongly supported digital payments in a bid to move the population away from cash and make transactions and income tax collection more transparent.

UPI, or the Unified Payments Interface, is a government backed, interbank system that uses a “virtual payment address,” which looks a bit like an email address, to identify customers from different banks.

Some of India’s biggest lenders, including the State Bank of India, ICICI Bank and Punjab National Bank, have apps that already work with the system.

A payments service could be crucial to help WhatsApp maintain its dominance in India, where it competes with Hike and Snapchat.

Truecaller, an app originally built to filter spam calls but is turning into an alternative communication hub in its own right, announced last week that it was rolling out a payments service in India, and plugging into the UPI platform through a partnership with ICICI Bank.