EU migrants could be allowed to enter Britain until 2022, as Theresa May suggests free movement extension
EU migrants could be allowed to enter Britain until 2022, as Theresa May suggests free movement extension
igrants from the EU could be allowed to come to Britain with full citizens’ rights for years after Brexit happens in 2019, Theresa May has hinted. The Prime Minister admitted there would have to be “a period of time” after Brexit when businesses and governments are implementing the deal she negotiates with the EU , when free movement could still be allowed. It raises the prospect of Britain having no control over its borders until 2022, as EU leaders have suggested a three-year transition period will be necessary after Brexit. Mrs May also said she is confident she will reach a final deal with the EU member states within two years. Addressing reporters on the second day of her tour of the Middle East, the Prime Minister was asked directly if she could rule out free movement of migrants during any transitional period after Brexit. She said: “If you think about it, once we’ve got the deal, once we’ve agreed what the new relationship will be for the future, it will be necessary for there to be a period of time when businesses and governments are adjusting systems and so forth, depending on the nature of the deal.” She added that Britain will have “control of our borders and control of immigration” once we leave the EU, but would not set a date for when that will happen. eparately, in an interview with Sky News, Mrs May said: “What's important is that when we leave the EU, people know what the future relationship is. "It's common sense, it's pragmatic for people, it's pragmatic for businesses, and I believe that's what we will be working for and it's what both sides will be working for.” ichard Tice, co-chairman of the pressure group Leave Means Leave, warned that more than a million extra migrants could move to Britain unless a cut-off date was quickly agreed. He said: “If the Prime Minister fails to set a cut-off point on immigration, Britain must prepare for a crisis as around 1.25 million extra EU migrants will likely move to Britain… and our public services, transport and housing stock which are already at breaking point will not be able to cope.” aul Nuttall, leader of Ukip, said: “By voting to leave the EU, the British people asked the government to reduce the high levels of immigration that see a city the size of Hull and Newcastle come to the UK each year. “The fact that the Tories won’t even specify how long the period of open-door immigration will continue after we have left the EU sets alarm bells ringing.” Conservative MP and Leave campaigner Sir Bill Cash defended the Prime Minister, saying: “The fact that we leave means the end of the European legal basis for free movement. "But there will still be a need for some fluidity of labour and that will be dealt with in the Immigration Bill. "You can't have an overlap - EU law will end and the terms of the Immigration Bill will take over, but that will include movement of people for the purposes of having a proper workforce and I think that's what the Prime Minister was referring to." n ICM poll published this week suggested that the majority of voters are relaxed about the prospect of free movement continuing after Brexit. sked whether they would accept the continued free movement of people “for a few years after Brexit, as part of a transitional deal”, 54 per cent of people said it would be acceptable, with only 29 per cent saying it was not acceptable. John McFarlane, the chairman of Barclays, said earlier this year that the Government was supportive of a three-year transition period because of the “complexity” of putting the Brexit deal into action. ome manufacturing firms have even suggested a five-year transition period would be helpful. Asked if she believed a Brexit deal could be done within two years, Mrs May replied: “Yes.” She said that if she ended up in a “no deal situation” it would not be “in anybody’s interests”.

Migrants from the EU could be allowed to come to Britain with full citizens’ rights for years after Brexit happens in 2019, Theresa May has hinted.

The Prime Minister admitted there would have to be “a period of time” after Brexit when businesses and governments are implementing the deal she negotiates with the EU, when free movement could still be allowed.

It raises the prospect of Britain having no control over its borders until 2022, as EU leaders have suggested a three-year transition period will be necessary after Brexit.

Mrs May also said she is confident she will reach a final deal with the EU member states within two years.

Addressing reporters on the second day of her tour of the Middle East, the Prime Minister was asked directly if she could rule out free movement of migrants during any transitional period after Brexit.

She said: “If you think about it, once we’ve got the deal, once we’ve agreed what the new relationship will be for the future, it will be necessary for there to be a period of time when businesses and governments are adjusting systems and so forth, depending on the nature of the deal.”

She added that Britain will have “control of our borders and control of immigration” once we leave the EU, but would not set a date for when that will happen.