Leonard Fournette 12 pounds lighter at LSU Tigers pro day
Fournette 12 pounds lighter at LSU pro day
Fournette 12 pounds lighter at LSU pro day Faceless of the Game: Where have all the MLB superstars gone? The must-watch player on every major league team Free agency Love/Hate: Players rising and falling in 2017 value No easy solution to the DNP-Rest epidemic Bruins are postseason dark horse The Brady genes, NCAA nosebleeds and the future of concussions Mike Weber wants to be Ohio State's new household name at running back W2W4: U.S.-Australia highlight uber-competitive Davis Cup weekend Cormier vs. Johnson statistical breakdown Leonard Fournette details how he was able to lose 12 pounds since the NFL combine. (0:36) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covered Saints for eight years at New Orleans Times-Picayune Previously covered LSU football, San Francisco 49ers Iowa native and University of Iowa graduate Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment BATON ROUGE, La. -- Leonard Fournette weighed in at 228 pounds Wednesday at LSU's pro timing day -- 12 pounds lighter than at the NFL scouting combine last month, when what he called "water weight" raised some eyebrows. In process, the power running back shed one of the few concerns about him as a projected top-10 choice. It's unclear how many drills Fournette will perform at his home base on Wednesday. He doesn't need to improve on his 40-yard dash time of 4.51 seconds at the combine, an impressive time for someone of his size. ESPN draft analyst Todd McShay had Fournette going fourth to the Jacksonville Jaguars in his latest mock draft Wednesday even before Fournette weighed in at 228. ESPN's Mel Kiper Jr. projected Fournette at No. 8 to the Carolina Panthers , which has been a popular projection for him throughout the pre-draft process. Fournette, who measured in at 6 feet both times, shrugged off the weight concerns at the combine, saying he drank a lot of water before he weighed in and was surprised it made such a difference. He said at the time that he wanted to weigh 235, but he could easily get down to 225 if teams wanted him to. Fournette was a first-team All-American at LSU in 2015 before a lingering ankle injury derailed his season in 2016. He finished with 3,830 rushing yards (averaging 119.7 yards per game and 6.2 yards per carry) and 42 total touchdowns in just 32 career games played. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Leonard Fournette details how he was able to lose 12 pounds since the NFL combine. (0:36)

BATON ROUGE, La. -- Leonard Fournette weighed in at 228 pounds Wednesday at LSU's pro timing day -- 12 pounds lighter than at the NFL scouting combine last month, when what he called "water weight" raised some eyebrows.

In process, the power running back shed one of the few concerns about him as a projected top-10 choice.

Leonard Fournette put some fears over his weight to rest on Wednesday. Christopher Brashers/Icon Sportswire

It's unclear how many drills Fournette will perform at his home base on Wednesday. He doesn't need to improve on his 40-yard dash time of 4.51 seconds at the combine, an impressive time for someone of his size.

ESPN draft analyst Todd McShay had Fournette going fourth to the Jacksonville Jaguars in his latest mock draft Wednesday even before Fournette weighed in at 228. ESPN's Mel Kiper Jr. projected Fournette at No. 8 to the Carolina Panthers, which has been a popular projection for him throughout the pre-draft process.

Fournette, who measured in at 6 feet both times, shrugged off the weight concerns at the combine, saying he drank a lot of water before he weighed in and was surprised it made such a difference. He said at the time that he wanted to weigh 235, but he could easily get down to 225 if teams wanted him to.

Fournette was a first-team All-American at LSU in 2015 before a lingering ankle injury derailed his season in 2016. He finished with 3,830 rushing yards (averaging 119.7 yards per game and 6.2 yards per carry) and 42 total touchdowns in just 32 career games played.