Police attempt to change scope of undercover officers inquiry

Police have launched an attempt to change the scope of a judge-led public inquiry into the alleged misconduct of their undercover officers in England and Wales who spied on hundreds of political groups. The police are arguing that the inquiry, led by Lord Justice Pitchford, should scrutinise fewer undercover officers than planned at the moment, a hearing on Wednesday heard. They are also pushing for an extra seven months to prepare legal applications to keep secret the identities of many of their undercover officers. In August 2016 they were given a deadline of 1 March to submit these applications but failed to submit any. Jonathan Hall, the Metropolitan police’s QC, told the hearing this deadline was “impossible to meet”, and proposed what he called “an ambitious target date of 1 October”. Dan Squires, QC for those who have been spied on, has told the inquiry that they “still have no new information about what happened to them.” “The inquiry was triggered by recognition that serious wrongs had been perpetrated on subjects of undercover policing”. He said the police had previously argued for almost of all of the inquiry to be held in secret, but this was “rightly rejected” by Pitchford. Lawyers representing the inquiry have said the police’s failure to meet the original deadline was “particularly disappointing and is delaying the substantive progress” of the inquiry. For more than a year, police have been arguing that the inquiry should examine the activities of the vast majority of their undercover officers behind closed doors.  Pitchford is holding a hearing to decide whether to grant the police’s proposals. More than 170 people who were spied on have criticised the latest proposals as yet another attempt by the police to cover up the wrongdoing of the undercover officers. Their lawyers said many of them were “angry and frustrated” that the misconduct committed by the undercover officers remained hidden. “The difficulty facing the inquiry is that the Metropolitan police has repeatedly sought to stifle the inquiry’s effectiveness and prevent any details of wrongdoing in undercover activities being made public,” their lawyers added. The inquiry – originally ordered by Theresa May when she was home secretary in 2014 – was due to finish by 2018 . However, the inquiry is unlikely to start holding public sessions to hear evidence until next year at the earliest. The inquiry was set up to scrutinise, in the words of May, the “ very real and substantial failings ” of the undercover officers. Police have been forced to apologise after it was revealed that undercover officers had formed long-term relationships with women, gathered information on the families of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence and other grieving families, and stole the identities of dead children . Pitchford has made it clear that he wants to take evidence from all the undercover officers who are still alive. But the police are proposing that the inquiry scrutinises the conduct of a smaller number of officers in more depth. They say it would save time and money if Pitchford concentrated his inquiry on fewer officers. The police also say they need to prepare legal applications to keep secret the identities of more than 100 undercover officers who have infiltrated political groups since 1968. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating claims that a covert Scotland Yard unit shredded a large number of files after the public inquiry was commissioned by May when she was home secretary . The hearing continues.  Undercover police and policing   Police   Wales   Metropolitan police   London   news

Police push for extra time to apply to keep undercover identities secret and argue fewer officers should be scrutinised

Police have launched an attempt to change the scope of a judge-led public inquiry into the alleged misconduct of their undercover officers in England and Wales who spied on hundreds of political groups.

The police are arguing that the inquiry, led by Lord Justice Pitchford, should scrutinise fewer undercover officers than planned at the moment, a hearing on Wednesday heard.

They are also pushing for an extra seven months to prepare legal applications to keep secret the identities of many of their undercover officers.

In August 2016 they were given a deadline of 1 March to submit these applications but failed to submit any.

Jonathan Hall, the Metropolitan police’s QC, told the hearing this deadline was “impossible to meet”, and proposed what he called “an ambitious target date of 1 October”.

Dan Squires, QC for those who have been spied on, has told the inquiry that they “still have no new information about what happened to them.”

“The inquiry was triggered by recognition that serious wrongs had been perpetrated on subjects of undercover policing”.

He said the police had previously argued for almost of all of the inquiry to be held in secret, but this was “rightly rejected” by Pitchford.



Lawyers representing the inquiry have said the police’s failure to meet the original deadline was “particularly disappointing and is delaying the substantive progress” of the inquiry.



For more than a year, police have been arguing that the inquiry should examine the activities of the vast majority of their undercover officers behind closed doors.

Pitchford is holding a hearing to decide whether to grant the police’s proposals.

More than 170 people who were spied on have criticised the latest proposals as yet another attempt by the police to cover up the wrongdoing of the undercover officers.

Their lawyers said many of them were “angry and frustrated” that the misconduct committed by the undercover officers remained hidden.

“The difficulty facing the inquiry is that the Metropolitan police has repeatedly sought to stifle the inquiry’s effectiveness and prevent any details of wrongdoing in undercover activities being made public,” their lawyers added.

The inquiry – originally ordered by Theresa May when she was home secretary in 2014 – was due to finish by 2018.

However, the inquiry is unlikely to start holding public sessions to hear evidence until next year at the earliest.

The inquiry was set up to scrutinise, in the words of May, the “very real and substantial failings” of the undercover officers.

Police have been forced to apologise after it was revealed that undercover officers had formed long-term relationships with women, gathered information on the families of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence and other grieving families, and stole the identities of dead children.

Pitchford has made it clear that he wants to take evidence from all the undercover officers who are still alive.

But the police are proposing that the inquiry scrutinises the conduct of a smaller number of officers in more depth. They say it would save time and money if Pitchford concentrated his inquiry on fewer officers.

The police also say they need to prepare legal applications to keep secret the identities of more than 100 undercover officers who have infiltrated political groups since 1968.

The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating claims that a covert Scotland Yard unit shredded a large number of files after the public inquiry was commissioned by May when she was home secretary.

The hearing continues.