GM confirms Seattle Seahawks have discussed trading Richard Sherman
Seahawks GM: Sherman trade talk 'is real'
Seahawks GM: Sherman trade talk 'is real' Berry: Free agency Love/Hate, players rising and falling in 2017 value Biggest remaining hole for every NFL team Updating the QB market minus Romo Trevor Siemian, Paxton Lynch will find plenty of pressure with votes of confidence After an NFL lifetime, Cunningham ready for new gig Mark Davis: I offered a piece of Raiders to A's in effort to stay in Oakland Trading Timmy Jernigan works for Ravens if young linemen develop The First Take crew weighs in on how Richard Sherman's behavior may have led Seattle to entertain trade offers for the cornerback. (1:51) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covered the Philadelphia Eagles for Philadelphia Magazine and Philly.com from 2008 to 2015. Covered the Baltimore Ravens and the NFL for BaltimoreSun.com from 2006 to 2008. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Seattle Seahawks general manager John Schneider confirmed Wednesday that the team has discussed trading cornerback Richard Sherman . "What you've seen lately in the news is real," Schneider said on the "Brock and Salk" show on 710 ESPN Seattle. "That's on both sides. It's just open communication. He knows what's going on. We know what's going on. "I don't know if anything would ever happen. But like I tell people all the time, 98 percent of the things we're involved with, we don't follow through with. But at least we've opened that door, gone down the road and seen what's behind door A or door B." Schneider said the trade conversations began in February at the combine in Indianapolis. He said he's spoken to Sherman about the situation. "This isn't a secret like it just came out of nowhere," Schneider said. "People find things out, and we're not going to lie to each other. We're not going to BS each other. It's going to be all laid out." Sherman said last week to 710 ESPN Seattle: "I wouldn't want to leave this city and my guys, but I understand it's a business and organizational philosophies change." Sherman, 29, had two sideline blowups last season that were directed at coaches. The first involved defensive coordinator Kris Richard after the defense gave up a big play in Week 6 against the Atlanta Falcons . In Week 15, when the Seahawks attempted a pass play from the Los Angeles Rams ' 1-yard line, Sherman went off on Carroll and offensive coordinator Darrell Bevell. Afterward, Sherman did not back down, referencing the team's Super Bowl XLIX loss in which Russell Wilson was intercepted in a similar situation. At the owners' meetings in Phoenix last week, coach Pete Carroll said that the team has taken calls on Sherman. "There have been some teams that have called, and so we've talked about it," Carroll said. "But he's extremely important to our football team. I don't see anything happening at all." Sherman has two years remaining on his contract. He is due $11.431 million guaranteed in 2017 and $11 million in 2018. Sherman has never missed a game in his six-year NFL career and has made the Pro Bowl four seasons in a row. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The First Take crew weighs in on how Richard Sherman's behavior may have led Seattle to entertain trade offers for the cornerback. (1:51)

Seattle Seahawks general manager John Schneider confirmed Wednesday that the team has discussed trading cornerback Richard Sherman.

"What you've seen lately in the news is real," Schneider said on the "Brock and Salk" show on 710 ESPN Seattle. "That's on both sides. It's just open communication. He knows what's going on. We know what's going on.

"I don't know if anything would ever happen. But like I tell people all the time, 98 percent of the things we're involved with, we don't follow through with. But at least we've opened that door, gone down the road and seen what's behind door A or door B."

Editor's Picks Seahawks, Richard Sherman find themselves in a messy situation By signalling that Richard Sherman is indeed available, Pete Carroll and the Seahawks could add a big distraction in 2017 if the cornerback returns.

Seahawks' Bennett 'can't see' Sherman leaving Seattle defensive end Michael Bennett tells SportsCenter that he simply "can't see" teammate Richard Sherman playing anywhere else but for the Seahawks. 1 Related

Schneider said the trade conversations began in February at the combine in Indianapolis. He said he's spoken to Sherman about the situation.

"This isn't a secret like it just came out of nowhere," Schneider said. "People find things out, and we're not going to lie to each other. We're not going to BS each other. It's going to be all laid out."

Sherman said last week to 710 ESPN Seattle: "I wouldn't want to leave this city and my guys, but I understand it's a business and organizational philosophies change."

Sherman, 29, had two sideline blowups last season that were directed at coaches. The first involved defensive coordinator Kris Richard after the defense gave up a big play in Week 6 against the Atlanta Falcons.

In Week 15, when the Seahawks attempted a pass play from the Los Angeles Rams' 1-yard line, Sherman went off on Carroll and offensive coordinator Darrell Bevell. Afterward, Sherman did not back down, referencing the team's Super Bowl XLIX loss in which Russell Wilson was intercepted in a similar situation.

At the owners' meetings in Phoenix last week, coach Pete Carroll said that the team has taken calls on Sherman.

"There have been some teams that have called, and so we've talked about it," Carroll said. "But he's extremely important to our football team. I don't see anything happening at all."

Sherman has two years remaining on his contract. He is due $11.431 million guaranteed in 2017 and $11 million in 2018. Sherman has never missed a game in his six-year NFL career and has made the Pro Bowl four seasons in a row.