JAB snaps up Panera Bread for more than $7 billion
JAB snaps up Panera Bread for more than $7 billion
Shares                Panera is being acquired by Europe's JAB Holding Co. for more than $7 billion. JAB is better known for the growing stable of brands it owns or has a big stake in, including Peet's Coffee & Tea, Caribou Coffee Co., Stumptown Coffee and Keurig Green Mountain and Krispy Kreme Doughnuts. For days there have been rumors of a deal for Panera, with one of the companies reportedly interested being Starbucks Corp. On Wednesday, the St. Louis sandwich and soup chain revealed that it was actually JAB, an investment fund based in Luxemburg that has quietly become a Starbucks rival. "Our success for shareholders is the byproduct of our commitment to long-term decision making and operating in the interest of all stakeholders, including guests, associates, and franchisees," said Panera founder and CEO Ron Shaich. "We believe this transaction with JAB offers the best way to continue to operate with this approach. We are pleased to join with JAB, a private investor with an equally long-term perspective, as well as a deep commitment to our strategic plan." Shaich opened a Boston cookie store in the early 1980s and expanded to more than 2,000 bakery-cafes with annual revenue of $5 billion in sales. JAB will pay $315 per Panera Bread Co. share. That's a 14.5 percent premium to the company's Tuesday closing price of $274. The transaction, which includes approximately $340 million of debt, is expected to close in the third quarter. It still needs the approval of Panera shareholders. Once the deal is complete, Panera will become privately held company. Shares of Panera jumped more than 12 percent before the opening bell Wednesday. Shares                  JAB snaps up Panera Bread for more than $7 billion   UN to hold emergency meeting after suspected chemical attack in Syria   Dem senator holds floor in marathon speech to slam Supreme Court nominee   Wife of Pulse nightclub gunman to return to Florida for trial   Man charged in fatal shootings of 4 at Chicago restaurant   US-China summit at Trump's resort polishes Mar-a-Lago brand   Chinese president promises pandas to Finland on state visit   North Korea is increasingly a focus of US-China meeting   Australian police make record seizure of methamphetamine   Russian investigators confirm subway bombing was a suicide attack   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Firefighters honor family that returned lost wallet   Giant panda Tian Tian dangles while climbing tree   Golden retriever catches taco full of spaghetti in midair   3 tiger cubs destined for zoo in Syria rescued in Lebanon   Shark swims up to Melbourne beachgoers   Volunteer baby rockers soothe hospitalized infants   Police dog shows fastest way to capture a suspect   Tearful reunion between a boy and his neighbor's dog after a year apart   Mayor who led Ferguson through turmoil is re-elected   EU legislators tell UK on Brexit: no parallel talks   Plays in Garbage Time have some in NBA getting trashed   No, the U.S. House didn't vote to block Sharia law   White House sells changes to health care bill to House Republicans   Police chase leaves fence-jumper needing new pants   UK's Labour criticized over response to Nazi comments   Prince Harry takes on mother's cause to rid world of landmines   Mama June Shannon opens up on her drastic weight loss

Panera is being acquired by Europe's JAB Holding Co. for more than $7 billion.

JAB is better known for the growing stable of brands it owns or has a big stake in, including Peet's Coffee & Tea, Caribou Coffee Co., Stumptown Coffee and Keurig Green Mountain and Krispy Kreme Doughnuts.

For days there have been rumors of a deal for Panera, with one of the companies reportedly interested being Starbucks Corp.

On Wednesday, the St. Louis sandwich and soup chain revealed that it was actually JAB, an investment fund based in Luxemburg that has quietly become a Starbucks rival.

"Our success for shareholders is the byproduct of our commitment to long-term decision making and operating in the interest of all stakeholders, including guests, associates, and franchisees," said Panera founder and CEO Ron Shaich. "We believe this transaction with JAB offers the best way to continue to operate with this approach. We are pleased to join with JAB, a private investor with an equally long-term perspective, as well as a deep commitment to our strategic plan."

Shaich opened a Boston cookie store in the early 1980s and expanded to more than 2,000 bakery-cafes with annual revenue of $5 billion in sales.

JAB will pay $315 per Panera Bread Co. share. That's a 14.5 percent premium to the company's Tuesday closing price of $274.

The transaction, which includes approximately $340 million of debt, is expected to close in the third quarter. It still needs the approval of Panera shareholders. Once the deal is complete, Panera will become privately held company.

Shares of Panera jumped more than 12 percent before the opening bell Wednesday.