Prospects For Tax Reform That Doesn't Spike The Deficit Are Quickly Fading
Prospects For Tax Reform That Doesn't Spike The Deficit Are Quickly Fading
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Stan Collender       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. While President Donald Trump spoke during a town hall meeting with business executives on Tuesday, April 4, his administration was floating trial balloons on two GOP-hated taxed increases. Photographer: Olivier Douliery/Bloomberg reported early on Tuesday that two of the tax changes the GOP most despises and reviles were being considered by the Trump administration to offset the huge projected revenue loss from tax reform so it wouldn't increase the deficit. Later that same day, the White House shot down the trial balloon that it had set aloft to determine whether either of the two previously vile ideas had any political legs. But the fact that the Trump administration was testing two tax proposals -- a value-added tax and a carbon tax -- that for the past decade or so have been routinely condemned by Republican conservatives clearly demonstrates that the prospects for a revenue-neutral tax reform bill are quickly fading and that a big increase in the federal deficit and national debt are far more possible than anyone dared imagine. Neither a VAT or carbon tax would have needed to be floated if the GOP's other big possible offset -- House Speaker Paul Ryan's (R-WI) border adjustment tax -- turned out to be politically feasible. But with Republican opposition to a BAT threatening to drag tax reform down, something else had to be found. With these 3 major revenue-raisers now politically unacceptable, the Trump administration and congressional Republicans have very few other options. First, they could always decide not to do tax reform at all. However, in the wake of the Affordable Care Act repeal and replace debacle, neither Trump nor congressional Republicans can possibly allow themselves to fail on their second high-priority legislative promise. Second, they could try to pay for the planned reduction in tax rates by "base-broadening," that is, by eliminating most existing tax deductions and credits. But unless the most popular provisions such as the deductions for charitable giving and mortgage interest were eliminated, the revenue gain likely wouldn't be large enough to offset the loss. In addition, the political blowback from even suggesting these eliminations would be make the angry town hall meetings over ACA seem tame. Third, Trump and the GOP could decide to modify their tax reform plans so that rates for corporations and individuals aren't reduced as much as originally promised. That would lower the revenue loss that had to be offset but would also significantly decrease support for the overall plan and its prospects for enactment. Finally, and perhaps, almost inevitably, they could simply decide that the projected revenue loss doesn't need to be offset. If that means a higher deficit, so be it. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

The Washington Post reported early on Tuesday that two of the tax changes the GOP most despises and reviles were being considered by the Trump administration to offset the huge projected revenue loss from tax reform so it wouldn't increase the deficit. Later that same day, the White House shot down the trial balloon that it had set aloft to determine whether either of the two previously vile ideas had any political legs.

But the fact that the Trump administration was testing two tax proposals -- a value-added tax and a carbon tax -- that for the past decade or so have been routinely condemned by Republican conservatives clearly demonstrates that the prospects for a revenue-neutral tax reform bill are quickly fading and that a big increase in the federal deficit and national debt are far more possible than anyone dared imagine.

Neither a VAT or carbon tax would have needed to be floated if the GOP's other big possible offset -- House Speaker Paul Ryan's (R-WI) border adjustment tax -- turned out to be politically feasible. But with Republican opposition to a BAT threatening to drag tax reform down, something else had to be found.

With these 3 major revenue-raisers now politically unacceptable, the Trump administration and congressional Republicans have very few other options.

First, they could always decide not to do tax reform at all. However, in the wake of the Affordable Care Act repeal and replace debacle, neither Trump nor congressional Republicans can possibly allow themselves to fail on their second high-priority legislative promise.

Second, they could try to pay for the planned reduction in tax rates by "base-broadening," that is, by eliminating most existing tax deductions and credits. But unless the most popular provisions such as the deductions for charitable giving and mortgage interest were eliminated, the revenue gain likely wouldn't be large enough to offset the loss. In addition, the political blowback from even suggesting these eliminations would be make the angry town hall meetings over ACA seem tame.

Third, Trump and the GOP could decide to modify their tax reform plans so that rates for corporations and individuals aren't reduced as much as originally promised. That would lower the revenue loss that had to be offset but would also significantly decrease support for the overall plan and its prospects for enactment.

Finally, and perhaps, almost inevitably, they could simply decide that the projected revenue loss doesn't need to be offset. If that means a higher deficit, so be it.