North Korean missile test ended in fiery crash, US says
North Korea's latest missile test ended in fiery crash, US says


A North Korean missile test ended in failure when the rocket spun out of control and plunged into the ocean in a fiery crash, a senior U.S. defense official said.

The extended-range Scud missile suffered an in-flight failure and fell into the sea off North Korea's east coast after flying about 65km (40 miles), analysts said.

The launch came ahead of President Trump's first meeting with Chinese leader Xi Jinping this week, raising speculation that it was timed to get their attention.

A North Korean test of a extended-range Scud missile has ended in failure after the rocket flew just 60km before suffering an in-flight failure and plunging into the ocean

Experts had predicted Kim Jong-un was preparing to carry out another nuclear detonation after satellite imagery showed preparations at one of the North's known test sites

Initial U.S. and South Korean assessments had indicated it was an advanced KN-15 medium-range missile, whose first known test by North Korea was in February.

But unlike the KN-15, which uses solid fuel, the missile fired Wednesday used liquid fuel and was fired from a fixed location, rather than a mobile launcher.

The South Korean military said the missile was fired from land near the east coast city of Sinpo.

North Korea is pushing hard to upgrade its weapons systems to cope with what it calls U.S. hostility.

Many weapons experts say the North could have a functioning nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the continental U.S. within four years.

North Korea carried out two nuclear tests last year, one in January and one in September, drawing international condemnation.

Ralph Cossa, president of the Pacific Forum CSIS think tank in Honolulu, said he was expecting North Korea would do something to coincide with the Trump-Xi summit.

Satellite imagery had suggested the North was preparing for a nuclear test to coincide with the meeting, as some experts warn there may be to more come.

'I've joked before that they don't mind being hated but they definitely hate to be ignored,' Cossa said.

Images showed possible preparations for a detonation at North Korea's main nuclear test site, including the laying of communication cables used to initiate a blast and collect data.

It is likely the missile launch was likely to draw the world's attention ahead of the meeting between Chinese premier Xi Jinping and President Trump later this week

Trump has signaled that North Korea will be top of the agenda during his talks with Xi starting on Thursday after suggesting America is willing to go it alone in 'solving' the dictatorship

North Korea's state media have said the world will soon witness what they called 'eventful successes' in the country's space development.

The United States, South Korea and others call North Korea's space program a cover for its long-range missile development program.

South Korea's Foreign Ministry called the missile launch a 'reckless provocation' that posed a threat to international peace, while Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said his country lodged a strong protest over the launch.

U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson acknowledged the launch but said the U.S. had spoken enough about North Korea and would not comment further.

Trump has said China must do more to pressure North Korea to halt its nuclear and missile programs.

Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said Wednesday that all sides needed to be involved.

'If we are serious about solving this issue, we need to tackle the root of it,' she said at a regular news briefing.

'We need to balance the interest of each side. China wants to make efforts with all sides involved, to make denuclearization a reality, and ensure peace in the region.'

Analysts say North Korea might also time nuclear and long-range rocket tests to the April 15 birthday of North Korea founder Kim Il Sung, the late grandfather of current leader Kim Jong Un.

The North's latest missile launch also came during annual military drills between the United States and South Korea. North Korea sees the drills as an invasion rehearsal.

Two weeks ago, the South Korean and U.S. militaries said they had detected a failed North Korean ballistic missile launch.

Earlier in March, North Korea fired four ballistic missiles that flew about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles), with three of them landing in waters that Japan claims as its exclusive economic zone.

The KN-15 missile tested in February flew about 500 kilometers (310 miles).