Donald Trump removes Steve Bannon from National Security Council
Donald Trump removes Steve Bannon from National Security Council
resident Donald Trump has removed his chief strategist Steve Bannon from the National Security Council. It reversed a controversial decision early in his administration to give Mr Bannon access to the high-level meetings. A new memo about the composition of the council was published in the Federal Register. The memo no longer lists Mr Bannon as a member of the Principal's Committee,  a group of high-ranking officials that convene to discuss pressing national security issues. According to the memo the director of national intelligence and the chariman of the joint chiefs of staff have been put back on the Principal's Committee. Mr Bannon's addition to the National Security Council led to criticism from those who said it was inappropriate for a political adviser like Mr Bannon to play such a key role on national security matters. Mr Bannon's removal from the National security Council was seen as a boost to national security adviser H.R. McMaster, who officials said has struggled to work together with him. A senior White House official said Mr Bannon's was no longer needed after the departure of Michael Flynn, Mr Trump's first national security adviser.. Mr Flynn was fired in February over his contacts with Russian ambassador Sergei Kisylak. The official said Mr Bannon had originally been placed on the National Security Council as a check on Mr Flynn. Mr Bannon had only ever attended one of the National security Council's regular meetings.

President Donald Trump has removed his chief strategist Steve Bannon from the National Security Council.

It reversed a controversial decision early in his administration to give Mr Bannon access to the high-level meetings.

A new memo about the composition of the council was published in the Federal Register.

The memo no longer lists Mr Bannon as a member of the Principal's Committee, a group of high-ranking officials that convene to discuss pressing national security issues.

According to the memo the director of national intelligence and the chariman of the joint chiefs of staff have been put back on the Principal's Committee.

Mr Bannon's addition to the National Security Council led to criticism from those who said it was inappropriate for a political adviser like Mr Bannon to play such a key role on national security matters.

Mr Bannon's removal from the National security Council was seen as a boost to national security adviser H.R. McMaster, who officials said has struggled to work together with him.

A senior White House official said Mr Bannon's was no longer needed after the departure of Michael Flynn, Mr Trump's first national security adviser..

Mr Flynn was fired in February over his contacts with Russian ambassador Sergei Kisylak.

The official said Mr Bannon had originally been placed on the National Security Council as a check on Mr Flynn.

Mr Bannon had only ever attended one of the National security Council's regular meetings.