6 Social Impact Business Ideas That Could Change The World From The Under 30 Summit EMEA
6 Social Impact Business Ideas That Could Change The World From The Under 30 Summit EMEA
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Natalie Sportelli       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo: Courtesy of Jerusalem Venture Partners) Under 30 summit Emea service day at JVP. Overlooking the ancient, rolling hills of Jerusalem’s Old City, more than a hundred young entrepreneurs are gathered discussing innovation. The topic at hand: how businesses can solve social problems. During the Under 30 Summit EMEA service day at the Jerusalem Venture Partners campus attendees broke into groups to drill down into how six different industries can develop solutions at scale for global problems. The sectors they tackled were EdTech, Smart Mobility, FinTech, Digital Health, Cyber Security, and Food Tech. Those gathered first addressed a major problem in the space and then collaborated to dream up and then pitch their answer to investors and their peers at the end of the day. The education group, led by EdTech Israel founder Dr. Yaki Dayan, agreed that there’s a circle of illiteracy in poor families where the parents did not attend school. As a result, their children are often similarly uneducated due to a lack of support and resources. To fix this problem, the group devised a plan to get learning tools to kids at an early age in the form of smart toys, like Legos that connect to form an electrical circuit. “This is a way to bring learning into homes for children and also help their parents,” says Dayan. EdTech's solution for social impact? Integrate smart toys into education #Under30Summit  pic.twitter.com/ujwOn80OES — Natalie Sportelli (@N_Sportelli) April 5, 2017 “Smart mobility doesn’t just look at electric or shared cars, it looks at smart cities, your bicycle, drones, and more,” says Lior Yekoutieli, head of global technology alliances at Deloitte Israel, who facilitated the discussion. The group focused on ways to combat distracted driving, proposing an app that rewards users for not using their phone while behind the wheel, which would earn points to be redeemed for sponsored events like concerts. The FinTech contingent found the global credit crisis the most pressing social issue in the sector. “There are 2 billion people who don’t have access to financial services,” said David Benigson, a summit attendee and founder of Signal Media. He asked the assembled crowd, “How do we create a centralized, universal system to aggregate alternative data sets to serve as a form of credit history for those who’ve never visited a bank?” They found that devising a computer program that uses peer resources, social media activity and education to determine financial history could help bridge the credit gap and help people get loans. Orcam is a health tech solution for the visually impaired #Under30Summit  pic.twitter.com/zh8JvTMDDA — Forbes Under 30 (@ForbesUnder30) April 5, 2017 Healthcare founders latched onto an existing idea to advance opportunities for the visually impaired. They took Rafi Fischer’s technology, OrCam, which scans and read documents aloud to users and can be operated using hand gestures, and brought it a step further. Suggesting an additional feature which could read facial expressions and emotional responses to convey nonverbal communication to blind. “When we look at cyber security it ranges from technological solutions to specific problems to the need to actually think of it as a bigger problem,” says Yoav Tzruya, a general partner at JVP, which has $900 million under management and invests heavily in cyber security. His group focused on the problem on a global scale, proposing an international initiative to create a universal agreement or treaty on cyber security expectations and standards which would involved cooperation between nations. Getting a food product from farmer to customer is not as simple as it may seem. The food breakout group focused on issues related to distribution channels, which usually puts the most strain on the producer and the consumer. Joey Grassia, founder of Steamm and Kutoa bars, asked the audience, “How do we get more people access to healthier food that tastes good?” His group conceived an idea for a cloud-based program that would order and ship food from farmers direct to homes, where an integrated machine would prepare the meal in a healthful way that does not culminuate in adding to the food waste problem. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

(Photo: Courtesy of Jerusalem Venture Partners)

Overlooking the ancient, rolling hills of Jerusalem’s Old City, more than a hundred young entrepreneurs are gathered discussing innovation. The topic at hand: how businesses can solve social problems. During the Under 30 Summit EMEA service day at the Jerusalem Venture Partners campus attendees broke into groups to drill down into how six different industries can develop solutions at scale for global problems.

The sectors they tackled were EdTech, Smart Mobility, FinTech, Digital Health, Cyber Security, and Food Tech. Those gathered first addressed a major problem in the space and then collaborated to dream up and then pitch their answer to investors and their peers at the end of the day.

EdTech: Smart toys

The education group, led by EdTech Israel founder Dr. Yaki Dayan, agreed that there’s a circle of illiteracy in poor families where the parents did not attend school. As a result, their children are often similarly uneducated due to a lack of support and resources. To fix this problem, the group devised a plan to get learning tools to kids at an early age in the form of smart toys, like Legos that connect to form an electrical circuit. “This is a way to bring learning into homes for children and also help their parents,” says Dayan.

EdTech's solution for social impact? Integrate smart toys into education #Under30Summit pic.twitter.com/ujwOn80OES — Natalie Sportelli (@N_Sportelli) April 5, 2017

Smart Mobility: Accountability apps

“Smart mobility doesn’t just look at electric or shared cars, it looks at smart cities, your bicycle, drones, and more,” says Lior Yekoutieli, head of global technology alliances at Deloitte Israel, who facilitated the discussion. The group focused on ways to combat distracted driving, proposing an app that rewards users for not using their phone while behind the wheel, which would earn points to be redeemed for sponsored events like concerts.

FinTech: Creating a new kind of credit

The FinTech contingent found the global credit crisis the most pressing social issue in the sector. “There are 2 billion people who don’t have access to financial services,” said David Benigson, a summit attendee and founder of Signal Media. He asked the assembled crowd, “How do we create a centralized, universal system to aggregate alternative data sets to serve as a form of credit history for those who’ve never visited a bank?” They found that devising a computer program that uses peer resources, social media activity and education to determine financial history could help bridge the credit gap and help people get loans.

Orcam is a health tech solution for the visually impaired #Under30Summit pic.twitter.com/zh8JvTMDDA — Forbes Under 30 (@ForbesUnder30) April 5, 2017

Digital Health: Multisensory communication

Healthcare founders latched onto an existing idea to advance opportunities for the visually impaired. They took Rafi Fischer’s technology, OrCam, which scans and read documents aloud to users and can be operated using hand gestures, and brought it a step further. Suggesting an additional feature which could read facial expressions and emotional responses to convey nonverbal communication to blind.

Cyber Security: Cross-country treaty

“When we look at cyber security it ranges from technological solutions to specific problems to the need to actually think of it as a bigger problem,” says Yoav Tzruya, a general partner at JVP, which has $900 million under management and invests heavily in cyber security. His group focused on the problem on a global scale, proposing an international initiative to create a universal agreement or treaty on cyber security expectations and standards which would involved cooperation between nations.

Food Tech: At home chef

Getting a food product from farmer to customer is not as simple as it may seem. The food breakout group focused on issues related to distribution channels, which usually puts the most strain on the producer and the consumer. Joey Grassia, founder of Steamm and Kutoa bars, asked the audience, “How do we get more people access to healthier food that tastes good?” His group conceived an idea for a cloud-based program that would order and ship food from farmers direct to homes, where an integrated machine would prepare the meal in a healthful way that does not culminuate in adding to the food waste problem.