Blooming cherry blossoms help Tokyo shake off winter blues



Blooming cherry blossoms help Tokyo shake off winter blues

Updated

Well today's the day. The famous cherry blossom trees are officially in full bloom in Tokyo.

Analysis and speculation about the cherry blossoms starts in Japan in January.

At that time, it's just a tantalising, mid-winter discussion, when we all dream about sunny days and warmer climes.

Over the weeks that follow, weather forecasters try to predict when we'll reach peak bloom.

This year, the cold weather has stayed around for longer and late frosts were threatening to damage the buds in some places.

Finally, a few days of warmer weather this week has encouraged the delicate pink blossoms to emerge.

It's more than just a pretty flower. The cherry blossom is a symbol of happiness in Japan.

Its brief appearance is a reminder of the fragility of life — if you don't take the time to enjoy it, it will soon be gone.

"Australians can't understand it, nature is different (here). Your country is so huge, so vast but this cherry blossom only lasts seven days," a retired man tells me in Yoyogi park.

"Nobody comes with a sour face. Coming along the streets to see the cherry blossoms, everybody is smiling."

It's not just about seeing the blossoms though — picnicking under the trees is mandatory.

Shops sell blue tarpaulins (sometimes pink to match the trees) and people buy them in bulk to cover the dusty ground in the parks.

The grass has just come through a harsh winter, so it is patchy at best.

Spring revellers bring packed lunchboxes with all manner of delicious offerings to place in the middle of their party to be shared with friends and colleagues.

Shops also offer themed cherry blossom products at this time of year. Cherry blossoms adorn beer cans, chip packets and there's even a cherry blossom flavoured coffee!

There's nothing like springtime in Tokyo. There's a feeling of celebration in the air — a joyous shared moment where the whole community shakes off its winter blues together.

Topics: animals-and-nature, community-and-multicultural-festivals, japan, asia

First posted