Bionic Leaf Makes Fertilizer From Sunlight And Air
Bionic Leaf Makes Fertilizer From Sunlight And Air
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Sam Lemonick       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. First there was the artificial leaf. Now its creator has unveiled the bionic leaf, which uses engineered bacteria and sunlight to convert nitrogen from the atmosphere into a fertilizer. Dan Nocera presented early results of his new research at the American Chemical Society's national meeting in San Francisco this week. Nocera lab/Harvard University Radishes fertilized by Dan Nocera's bionic leaf are own the right. If that name sounds familiar, Nocera made a big splash in 2008 when he unveiled his first artificial leaf. The technology is a wafer-thin photovoltaic panel coated with catalysts that can split water into oxygen and hydrogen gas. Nocera’s star has faded a bit since then, not least because the hydrogen economy his leaf would have served never developed, but he's still at it. I covered one advance last year. His newest innovation builds on the artificial leaf concept. The leaf makes hydrogen. Then, that hydrogen gets eaten by genetically modified bacteria that are reprogrammed to convert the hydrogen and carbon dioxide from the air into a plastic called polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB). Hydrogen gas and PHB are both just ways to store and move the sun’s energy. When Nocera takes the hydrogen away, the bacteria start breaking down the PHB for fuel. It powers their natural enzymes, called nitrogenases, to convert nitrogen gas from the air into ammonia, an effective and widely used fertilizer. Making that happen actually requires disrupting the bacteria’s natural metabolism, which would tend to break down the ammonia to use in protein and other biological molecules. Nocera used a pesticide called glufosinate, but in small enough amounts that it doesn’t kill the bacteria. So Nocera takes the bacteria, fat with PHB, and sprays them onto soil, where plants can use the ammonia for nitrogen and grow big and healthy. Nocera tried it out too, on a crop of radishes growing in a Harvard greenhouse. He says the radishes treated with his fertilizing bacteria grew about 150 percent bigger than the control group. His research group hasn’t published the research yet; Nocera said at a press conference he expects to submit a paper describing what they did within the next 6 weeks. This isn’t going to replace the chemical factories that churned out about 145 million metric tons of ammonia in 2015, and Nocera’s the first to admit that. He envisions this technology being used in developing nations that can’t or don’t want to invest in chemical plants and distribution systems for ammonia. Nocera’s bionic leaf operates at less than 25 percent efficiency. That’s nothing compared to the industrial equivalent, the Haber-Bosch process, works at about 97 percent efficiency. But when you consider that the bacteria use renewable sources—and that plants themselves only convert about 1 percent of the sun’s energy into useful biomass—it doesn’t seem so bad. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

First there was the artificial leaf. Now its creator has unveiled the bionic leaf, which uses engineered bacteria and sunlight to convert nitrogen from the atmosphere into a fertilizer. Dan Nocera presented early results of his new research at the American Chemical Society's national meeting in San Francisco this week.

Nocera lab/Harvard University

If that name sounds familiar, Nocera made a big splash in 2008 when he unveiled his first artificial leaf. The technology is a wafer-thin photovoltaic panel coated with catalysts that can split water into oxygen and hydrogen gas. Nocera’s star has faded a bit since then, not least because the hydrogen economy his leaf would have served never developed, but he's still at it. I covered one advance last year.

His newest innovation builds on the artificial leaf concept. The leaf makes hydrogen. Then, that hydrogen gets eaten by genetically modified Xanthobacter autotrophicus bacteria that are reprogrammed to convert the hydrogen and carbon dioxide from the air into a plastic called polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB). Hydrogen gas and PHB are both just ways to store and move the sun’s energy.

When Nocera takes the hydrogen away, the bacteria start breaking down the PHB for fuel. It powers their natural enzymes, called nitrogenases, to convert nitrogen gas from the air into ammonia, an effective and widely used fertilizer.

Making that happen actually requires disrupting the bacteria’s natural metabolism, which would tend to break down the ammonia to use in protein and other biological molecules. Nocera used a pesticide called glufosinate, but in small enough amounts that it doesn’t kill the bacteria.

So Nocera takes the bacteria, fat with PHB, and sprays them onto soil, where plants can use the ammonia for nitrogen and grow big and healthy.

Nocera tried it out too, on a crop of radishes growing in a Harvard greenhouse. He says the radishes treated with his fertilizing bacteria grew about 150 percent bigger than the control group. His research group hasn’t published the research yet; Nocera said at a press conference he expects to submit a paper describing what they did within the next 6 weeks.

This isn’t going to replace the chemical factories that churned out about 145 million metric tons of ammonia in 2015, and Nocera’s the first to admit that. He envisions this technology being used in developing nations that can’t or don’t want to invest in chemical plants and distribution systems for ammonia.

Nocera’s bionic leaf operates at less than 25 percent efficiency. That’s nothing compared to the industrial equivalent, the Haber-Bosch process, works at about 97 percent efficiency. But when you consider that the bacteria use renewable sources—and that plants themselves only convert about 1 percent of the sun’s energy into useful biomass—it doesn’t seem so bad.