John Legend Makes an Appearance in Trailer for ‘Master of None’ Season 2
John Legend Makes an Appearance in Trailer for ‘Master of None’ Season 2
There is no dialogue in the new trailer for , Aziz Ansari 's Peabody-winning Netflix series. But with Italy as the backdrop (and an appearance from John Legend ), who needs words anyway? Ansari and Eric Wareheim previously teased an Italian setting with their (unofficial) video for Kanye West's track "Famous." The setting isn't exactly a surprise, however, as the first season of Ansari's critically acclaimed series ends with Dev (Ansari) heading to Italy to possibly attend culinary classes. Back in August, Ansari let fans down easy with an explanation on why we'd have to wait a little longer for new episodes. "Normally on these shows you have a pretty quick schedule, and you just go right back into writing," Ansari told the . "I was talking to Netflix, and I was like, 'Honestly, we're capped.' The show was so personalized, we dumped our heads into this, we just needed to be people and live our actual life." If the new full-length trailer is any indication, maybe Ansari is taking a page from the Woody Allen playbook circa by making the second season's (partial) location just as much a character as the characters themselves. All signs point to at least a maybe on that theory: Ottimo gnocco fritto. (Really good fried dough thing with salumi on top). A post shared by @azizansari on Feb 23, 2016 at 9:18am PST Modena è una città bella. (Modena is a beautiful city.) A post shared by @azizansari on Feb 23, 2016 at 9:10am PST A post shared by @azizansari on Feb 23, 2016 at 9:07am PST One thing we know for sure: Ansari plans to do "even more" for diversity in the new season. "One thing I've thought about in going from season 1 to season 2 is now we're in a position to help other people," Ansari said last May during a -hosted discussion on diversity with Kerry Washington. "In season 2 I've been like I gotta find—I gotta do just even more—and find even more actors of color and writers of color." returns May 12.

There is no dialogue in the new trailer for Master of None, Aziz Ansari's Peabody-winning Netflix series. But with Italy as the backdrop (and an appearance from John Legend), who needs words anyway?

Ansari and Eric Wareheim previously teased an Italian setting with their (unofficial) video for Kanye West's The Life of Pablo track "Famous." The setting isn't exactly a surprise, however, as the first season of Ansari's critically acclaimed series ends with Dev (Ansari) heading to Italy to possibly attend culinary classes.

Back in August, Ansari let fans down easy with an explanation on why we'd have to wait a little longer for new episodes. "Normally on these shows you have a pretty quick schedule, and you just go right back into writing," Ansari told the Hollywood Reporter. "I was talking to Netflix, and I was like, 'Honestly, we're capped.' The show was so personalized, we dumped our heads into this, we just needed to be people and live our actual life."

If the new full-length trailer is any indication, maybe Ansari is taking a page from the Woody Allen playbook circa Manhattan by making the second season's (partial) location just as much a character as the actual characters themselves. All signs point to at least a maybe on that theory:

Ottimo gnocco fritto. (Really good fried dough thing with salumi on top). A post shared by @azizansari on Feb 23, 2016 at 9:18am PST

Modena è una città bella. (Modena is a beautiful city.) A post shared by @azizansari on Feb 23, 2016 at 9:10am PST

A post shared by @azizansari on Feb 23, 2016 at 9:07am PST

One thing we do know for sure: Ansari plans to do "even more" for diversity in the new season. "One thing I've thought about in going from season 1 to season 2 is now we're in a position to help other people," Ansari said last May during a Variety-hosted discussion on diversity with Kerry Washington. "In season 2 I've been like I gotta find—I gotta do just even more—and find even more actors of color and writers of color."

Master of None returns May 12.