Forget graphing calculator hacks, real cheaters use a tortoise
Forget graphing calculator hacks, real cheaters use a tortoise
Look, cheating is bad. But if you're going to do it, you better have a plan. Sure, you could sneak glances at your phone, or write reminders on your hand or, if you're really committed, enter a trove of information into your graphing calculator. All of those options pale in comparison to the purest and safest method to cheat on a test: a tortoise. SEE ALSO: Zoo animals show their true selves in these gorgeous portraits Nebraska biology student Sam Tighe tweeted that a tortoise with a handful of answers to multiple choice questions taped onto it is the only reason he's passing his class. this turtle is the only reason i'm passing bio pic.twitter.com/JF2irfPGR9 — sam tighe (@scram_tighe) April 3, 2017 Sure, you could get caught up on the fact that Tighe technically has his phone out for these pictures, or that he incorrectly identified the tortoise as a turtle, or that the whole thing is almost certainly not true. But you'd be missing the point. The test tortoise is a Flinstonian throwback to another era of test-taking. When our great grandparents had to walk 16 miles uphill to school, and if they wanted to cheat, would have to train a woodland critter to bring the answers to their one-room schoolhouse. The test tortoise is old school, and that's why they'll never suspect it. Don't cheat, though. WATCH: Doug the Pug lives like Justin Bieber for the day

Look, cheating is bad. But if you're going to do it, you better have a plan.

Sure, you could sneak glances at your phone, or write reminders on your hand or, if you're really committed, enter a trove of information into your graphing calculator. All of those options pale in comparison to the purest and safest method to cheat on a test: a tortoise.

SEE ALSO: Zoo animals show their true selves in these gorgeous portraits

Nebraska biology student Sam Tighe tweeted that a tortoise with a handful of answers to multiple choice questions taped onto it is the only reason he's passing his class.

this turtle is the only reason i'm passing bio pic.twitter.com/JF2irfPGR9 — sam tighe (@scram_tighe) April 3, 2017

Sure, you could get caught up on the fact that Tighe technically has his phone out for these pictures, or that he incorrectly identified the tortoise as a turtle, or that the whole thing is almost certainly not true. But you'd be missing the point.

The test tortoise is a Flinstonian throwback to another era of test-taking. When our great grandparents had to walk 16 miles uphill to school, and if they wanted to cheat, would have to train a woodland critter to bring the answers to their one-room schoolhouse. The test tortoise is old school, and that's why they'll never suspect it.

Don't cheat, though.