Volunteers paid £14,000 to spend two months in bed
French study pays volunteers £14,000 to spend two months in bed


Most people do not take much encouragement to lie around doing nothing, but it is not often that you can also get paid for the pleasure.

That's the opportunity on offer from a medical clinic in France, which is researching the effects of near weightlessness on the human body.

Participants - nicknamed pillownauts - can earn €16,000 (£14,000/$17,000) for spending 60 days in a hospital bed to simulate conditions aboard the International Space Station.

Scroll down for video

An 88 day experiment to study some the negative effects of prolonged periods in space is being run in France. Volunteers will spend 60 days lying flat on their backs, with their heads tilted at an angle slightly lower than the rest of their body (pictured)

THE STUDY A total of 24 volunteers will spend a 88 days in hospital, including 60 days spent confined to a bed with their heads lower than the rest of their bodies. Researchers are hoping to study some of the negative effects of prolonged periods in space, and determine ways to combat them. The bedridden participants are likely to experience a decrease in muscle mass, lower bone density and difficulty standing. And a number of logistical problems are also likely to present themselves during the course of the experiment - including eating, washing and going to the toilet while lying down.

France's Institute of Space Medicine and Physiology (Medes) is looking for 24 volunteers to spend a total of 88 days in hospital.

For the first two weeks of the experiment, scientists will conduct a series of tests and measurements on the volunteers.

This will be followed by a two month period during which the participants must remain in bed.

Lying flat on their backs, their heads will be tilted at an angle slightly lower than the rest of their body.

The precise angle - just less than six degrees below the horizontal - has the same affect on the human body as flying in weightlessness.

The remaining two weeks will be spent recovering from this enforced bed-rest, as well as measuring its effects.

Dr Arnaud Beck, who is coordinating the experiment, told 20 Minutes: 'The idea of this study is to reproduce the weightlessness of the International Space Station.

'In certain conditions the cardiovascular system is affected and is not capable of making the same effort as before the experiment.

'We even see a greater tendency to drops in blood pressure and vertigo.'

Researchers are hoping to study some of the negative effects of prolonged periods in space, and determine ways to combat them.

Bedridden volunteers are likely to experience a decrease some of the effects observed in astronauts, including a loss of muscle mass, lower bone density and difficulty standing.

And a number of logistical problems are also likely to present themselves during the course of the experiment.

Researchers hoping to determine ways to combat the negative effects of prolonged periods in space. This image is of a similar study undertaken by the European Space Agency

France's Institute of Space Medicine and Physiology has a long history of 'bedrest' tests. Lying at an angle - just less than six degrees below the horizontal - has the same affect on the human body as flying in weightlessness

Eating, washing and going to the toilet while lying down are likely to offer particular challenges.

Dr Beck added: 'The rule of the game is to keep at least one shoulder in contact with the bed or stretcher.

'But volunteers absolutely must stay permanently lying down.'

Previous bedrest studies at the Medes Institute have received up to 500 applicants.

One such experiment in 2013 saw 'pillownauts' spend a total of nine weeks in bed.

Regular biopsies were taken from their thigh muscles to look at how weightlessness affects muscle tissue.

The study seeks to simulate some of the conditions faced by astronauts aboard the International Space Station. Bedridden volunteers are likely to experience some of the effects observed in astronauts (stock image)

In previous studies, biopsies were taken from each of the volunteers' thigh muscles at regular intervals. The muscle was analysed and the results can help scientists test how much flying in weightlessness damages muscle density and movement

The study is seeking men aged between 20 and 45 years old who are in perfect health, don't smoke, practice regular sports and who do not have allergies or food restrictions and have a body mass index between 22 and 27.

It will take place between September and December this year at the Mede Spatial Clinic in Toulouse.

Anyone who is tempted by what could be an uncomfortable but relatively easy way to make money, can apply via the Medes website.