How Khalil Rafati quit crack cocaine and heroin to become a juice millionaire
How Khalil Rafati quit crack cocaine and heroin to become a juice millionaire
When Khalil Rafati was on the brink of death for the ninth time, he decided to turn his life around. Now, he's a millionaire.    @kashmiragander  Glowing with health, Khalil Rafati is the best advert that his million-dollar juice brand could hope for. But almost two decades ago, he was a heroin addict on the verge of a fatal overdose, and paramedics were fighting to save his life for the ninth time. In 2003, Rafati - who was born in Ohio - was hooked on heroin and crack cocaine, and weighed just 109lbs. A decade prior, he had moved to LA to follow his dream of becoming a film star. But it didn't quite work out. Instead, he made a living washing cars for stars like Slash. After dabbling with drugs, he gradually became addicted. He was then repeatedly arrested for drug-related offences, and was in and out of rehab. But something about his ninth brush with death snapped him out of this near-deadly cycle. After spending four months at a rehab centre, he has been clean ever since and his mental and physical health havereplaced crack as his obsession.   Father pens emotional open letter about his daughter's drug addiction Rafati was among millions of Americans who have struggled with addiction to opiates and heroin. In 2016, heroin use in the US hit its highest level for two decades according to the UN. And in Rafati's opinion, “places that are shallow and pretentious as LA” lend themselves to addiction. “Millions of people come here, much like I did, to become rich and famous," the 47-year-old tells "When those dreams get shattered to sh**, it’s quite easy to pick up the drink and the drugs.” As he learned more about healthy living, he decided he wanted to help those similarly affected by addition and opened his Riviera Recovery rehab centre. There, he would blend up juices and smoothies for his clients who would pay $10,000 to get clean. As word spread of his juices' unique ingredients - from pollen to maca powder - Rafati realised he was onto something. He established Sunlife Organics in 2011 and opened a flagship store in Malibu. Now, Rafati has six juice bars and over 200 members of staff across California. Psalm 103:1-5 Bless the Lord, O my soul; And all that is within me, bless His holy name! Bless the Lord, O my soul, And forget not all His benefits: Who forgives all your iniquities, Who heals all your diseases, Who redeems your life from destruction, Who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies, Who satisfies your mouth with good things, So that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s. A post shared by I Forgot to Die, Khalil Rafati (@iforgottodiebook) on But Rafati could have hardly predicted his success. And fear, not money, was his greatest driving force to get clean. “The of fear returning to my hopeless state of despair," he says. Rafati shared his remarkable story in his autobiography . People have responded “incredibly,” to his experiences. “I think people are desperate to listen to stories of redemption and hope because there are so many people hurting in the world right now.” Juice magnate Khalil Rafati - In pictures               Juice magnate Khalil Rafati - In pictures                                           “Sometimes I go on Amazon and read the reviews in tears because they are so beautiful,” he adds. Despite his struggle with drugs, Rafati is resolute that chapter in his life is over. He rejects the idea that temptation is a daily struggle for addicts, or at least for him. Check out the SunLife brand video (link in bio) if you haven't already! Thank you, friends for an incredible journey together! A post shared by I Forgot to Die, Khalil Rafati (@iforgottodiebook) on “In the beginning, yes of course, if you have a physical addiction to something it’s going to take months to alleviate that physical craving," he says. "But if somebody is willing to really change, if they really want to change, it’s not that complicated. We just love to complicate things, especially drug addicts and alcoholics. We are so sensitive and we think we are so clever and complex.” At the same time, he has little time for those without sympathy for those hooked on drink and drugs. “They are obviously sick and broken themselves. We are all entitled to help, we should all help each other. No matter what the circumstance is. That doesn’t mean give money to a drug addict, sometimes you have to say no to somebody is suffering from addiction. Or tell a loved one to move out from the house even though it upsets them, that in a way is helping them too. We must all love each other.”   Teenagers are 'replacing drugs with smartphones', researchers suggest The biggest misconception surrounding drug addiction, he goes on, is that it is a death sentence. “They But Rafati isn’t in the business of inflating his ego, or selling himself as a hero. “I don’t get too caught up in the ones claiming my book saved their life," he adds. "I know better than that. I know better than to believe my own press. I can’t save anybody, only we can save ourselves.” More about: Khalil Rafati Crack Addiction SunLife Organics Comments

Glowing with health, Khalil Rafati is the best advert that his million-dollar juice brand could hope for. But almost two decades ago, he was a heroin addict on the verge of a fatal overdose, and paramedics were fighting to save his life for the ninth time.

In 2003, Rafati - who was born in Ohio - was hooked on heroin and crack cocaine, and weighed just 109lbs. A decade prior, he had moved to LA to follow his dream of becoming a film star. But it didn't quite work out. Instead, he made a living washing cars for stars like Slash. After dabbling with drugs, he gradually became addicted. He was then repeatedly arrested for drug-related offences, and was in and out of rehab. But something about his ninth brush with death snapped him out of this near-deadly cycle. After spending four months at a rehab centre, he has been clean ever since and his mental and physical health havereplaced crack as his obsession.

Rafati was among millions of Americans who have struggled with addiction to opiates and heroin. In 2016, heroin use in the US hit its highest level for two decades according to the UN. And in Rafati's opinion, “places that are shallow and pretentious as LA” lend themselves to addiction. “Millions of people come here, much like I did, to become rich and famous," the 47-year-old tells The Independent. "When those dreams get shattered to sh**, it’s quite easy to pick up the drink and the drugs.”

As he learned more about healthy living, he decided he wanted to help those similarly affected by addition and opened his Riviera Recovery rehab centre. There, he would blend up juices and smoothies for his clients who would pay $10,000 to get clean. As word spread of his juices' unique ingredients - from pollen to maca powder - Rafati realised he was onto something. He established Sunlife Organics in 2011 and opened a flagship store in Malibu. Now, Rafati has six juice bars and over 200 members of staff across California.

But Rafati could have hardly predicted his success. And fear, not money, was his greatest driving force to get clean. “The of fear returning to my hopeless state of despair," he says.

Rafati shared his remarkable story in his autobiography I Forgot to Die. People have responded “incredibly,” to his experiences. “I think people are desperate to listen to stories of redemption and hope because there are so many people hurting in the world right now.”

“Sometimes I go on Amazon and read the reviews in tears because they are so beautiful,” he adds.

Despite his struggle with drugs, Rafati is resolute that chapter in his life is over. He rejects the idea that temptation is a daily struggle for addicts, or at least for him.

Check out the SunLife brand video (link in bio) if you haven't already! Thank you, friends for an incredible journey together! A post shared by I Forgot to Die, Khalil Rafati (@iforgottodiebook) on May 9, 2016 at 5:52pm PDT

“In the beginning, yes of course, if you have a physical addiction to something it’s going to take months to alleviate that physical craving," he says. "But if somebody is willing to really change, if they really want to change, it’s not that complicated. We just love to complicate things, especially drug addicts and alcoholics. We are so sensitive and we think we are so clever and complex.”

At the same time, he has little time for those without sympathy for those hooked on drink and drugs. “They are obviously sick and broken themselves. We are all entitled to help, we should all help each other. No matter what the circumstance is. That doesn’t mean give money to a drug addict, sometimes you have to say no to somebody is suffering from addiction. Or tell a loved one to move out from the house even though it upsets them, that in a way is helping them too. We must all love each other.”

The biggest misconception surrounding drug addiction, he goes on, is that it is a death sentence.

“They [addicts] want to believe that it's impossible to stop because that’s the easiest thing for them to believe. Taking responsibility for where we are in our lives and what has happened to us is a very heavy burden that most people are not willing to accept.”

But Rafati isn’t in the business of inflating his ego, or selling himself as a hero.

“I don’t get too caught up in the ones claiming my book saved their life," he adds. "I know better than that. I know better than to believe my own press. I can’t save anybody, only we can save ourselves.”

I Forgot to Die is out now