Gau Rakshaks Mob Justice In Rajasthan, Ceasefire Violation By Pakistan And Other Must Reads
Gau Rakshaks Mob Justice In Rajasthan, Ceasefire Violation By Pakistan And Other Must Reads
Gau Rakshaks Mob Justice In Rajasthan, Ceasefire Violation By Pakistan And Other Must Reads After a brief lull, the notorious cow vigilante groups are back, this time in Rajasthan. A video circulating online shows a group of gau rakshaks beating up men who were transporting cows. According to reports, the five men were on their way to Haryana, after purchasing cattle from Jaipur, when they were intercepted by the gau rakshaks affiliated to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal in Alwar. Read more 1. Pakistan Violates Ceasefire For The Fourth Time In 48 Hours, Targets Indian Army Along LoC Pakistan may be showing interest in solving the Kashmir issue with the help of the United States, but there seems to be no effort on its part to end the ceasefire violation at the line of control (LoC). The provocation from the Pakistani side continued today as Indian army positions in Kashmir were targetted fourth time in the last two days. Read more 2. CRPF Commandant Chetan Cheetah Who Survived Nine Bullets In Terrorists Attack To Leave Hospital After Two Months Chetan Kumar Cheetah, a CRPF Commandant who narrowly cheated death after being hit by at least nine bullets during an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir is all set to leave his hospital bed. Chetan who had earlier slipped into a coma made a recovery, which according to doctors at AIIMS is nothing short of a miracle. Read more 3. Flipkart May Soon Buy Snapdeal After Softbank Clears The Biggest Deal In Indian E-Commerce SoftBank, the largest shareholder in Snapdeal, held boardroom discussions on the proposed sale of the online marketplace to rival Flipkart on Tuesday according to two people aware of people aware of the development.

After a brief lull, the notorious cow vigilante groups are back, this time in Rajasthan. A video circulating online shows a group of gau rakshaks beating up men who were transporting cows.

According to reports, the five men were on their way to Haryana, after purchasing cattle from Jaipur, when they were intercepted by the gau rakshaks affiliated to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal in Alwar. Read more

1. Pakistan Violates Ceasefire For The Fourth Time In 48 Hours, Targets Indian Army Along LoC

Pakistan may be showing interest in solving the Kashmir issue with the help of the United States, but there seems to be no effort on its part to end the ceasefire violation at the line of control (LoC).

The provocation from the Pakistani side continued today as Indian army positions in Kashmir were targetted fourth time in the last two days. Read more

2. CRPF Commandant Chetan Cheetah Who Survived Nine Bullets In Terrorists Attack To Leave Hospital After Two Months

Chetan Kumar Cheetah, a CRPF Commandant who narrowly cheated death after being hit by at least nine bullets during an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir is all set to leave his hospital bed.

Chetan who had earlier slipped into a coma made a recovery, which according to doctors at AIIMS is nothing short of a miracle. Read more

3. Flipkart May Soon Buy Snapdeal After Softbank Clears The Biggest Deal In Indian E-Commerce

SoftBank, the largest shareholder in Snapdeal, held boardroom discussions on the proposed sale of the online marketplace to rival Flipkart on Tuesday according to two people aware of people aware of the development.

Don't Miss 920 SHARES 6.3 K SHARES 43 K SHARES 17.6 K SHARES 30.5 K SHARES

According to the terms proposed by the Japanese media and telecom conglomerate, Snapdeal shareholders will get one share of the country's largest e-commerce company for every ten they own according to the people cited above. Read more

4. Don't Call Every Attacks On Africans As Racially Motivated Before Inquiry Is Done, Says Sushma Swaraj

External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj said that "not all attacks are racial" after opposition members raised concern over the attacks on Nigerians in the Lok Sabha.

"The incident took place when some miscreants took advantage of the anger among locals in the death of 19-year-old Manish allegedly due to drug overdose,"Sushma said on Wednesday, adding, An independent inquiry is already underway into the two incidents, including that of Kenyan national." Read more

5. Bandipur Tiger Reserve's Legendary Big Cat 'Prince' That Had Gone Missing, Is Found Dead

For many years, he was the 'star attraction' at the Bandipur Tiger Reserve giving him a celebrity status among tourists. But, 'Prince' won't be around anymore to greet the hundreds of tourists who would come to visit him.

Prince, the legendary tiger of Bandipur and a darling of tourists, was last seen two weeks ago, is believed to be dead after the discovery of a carcass on Sunday. Read more