1 in 10 Zika infected moms have babies with birth defects
1 in 10 Zika-infected moms have babies with birth defects
1 in 10 Zika-infected US moms have babies with birth defects, CDC reports Updated 1633 GMT (0033 HKT) April 5, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH (35 Videos) Story highlights The risk is greater among women infected during the first trimester of pregnancy Screenings are recommended after birth, as complications may not be immediately obvious One in 10 pregnant women with confirmed Zika infection had a fetus or baby with Zika-related complications in 2016, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday. Devastating effects JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Ongoing outbreak See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter .

Story highlights The risk is greater among women infected during the first trimester of pregnancy

Screenings are recommended after birth, as complications may not be immediately obvious

(CNN) One in 10 pregnant women with confirmed Zika infection had a fetus or baby with Zika-related complications in 2016, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday.

The findings are based on the US Zika Pregnancy Registry, which was established last year to track Zika among pregnant women in the United States and its territories (except Puerto Rico, which has a separate registry).

The report included all 972 completed pregnancies from January through December 2016. Birth defects were reported in 5% (or 51) of the pregnancies with laboratory evidence of possible Zika infection, including six pregnancy losses that may have been due to miscarriage, stillbirth or termination.

That number climbs to 10% when looking at women with confirmed Zika infections.

Birth defects were reported in 15% of women who became infected with the virus during the first three months of pregnancy, known as the first trimester. This is in line with reports indicating that the infection during the earlier part of pregnancy poses a greater risk to the fetus.

Read More