'Queen' Director Vikas Bahl Accused Of Molesting A Co-Worker, Asked To Quit Phantom Films According To A Report
'Queen' Director Vikas Bahl Accused Of Molesting A Co-Worker, Claims Report
'Queen' Director Vikas Bahl Accused Of Molesting A Co-Worker, Asked To Quit Phantom Films According To A Report Amidst the controversy surrounding TVF Founder Arunabh Kumar and multiple allegations against him, there is another sad news that has come in the spotlight. According to a report in the Mumbai Mirror, and director Vikas Bahl has landed in a big soup. A co-worker has filed a complaint against him, accusing him of molestation. The report also claims that he has been asked to step down as one of the shareholders of Phantom Films. Phantom Films had four head honchos including Anurag Kashyap, Madhu Mantena, Vikramaditya Motwane and Bahl himself. A report that was carried by Mumbai Mirror on April 5 too had hinted at Bahl’s involvement in a sexual harassment case. Confirming the report, Mumbai Mirror has claimed that a woman employee at Phantom Films has indeed accused Bahl of molesting her during their work trip to Goa a few months ago. The matter was escalated to other partners of Phantom Films and Reliance Entertainment, who have a 50:50 partnership with the company. What followed was set up of a committee as per the Vishakha guidelines which resulted in Bahl being ousted. An anonymous stakeholder was quoted in the report saying, Even though Madhu Mantena has refused to accept any such claims against Vikas, he has been reportedly asked to quit.

Amidst the controversy surrounding TVF Founder Arunabh Kumar and multiple allegations against him, there is another sad news that has come in the spotlight.

According to a report in the Mumbai Mirror, Queen and Shaandar director Vikas Bahl has landed in a big soup. A co-worker has filed a complaint against him, accusing him of molestation. The report also claims that he has been asked to step down as one of the shareholders of Phantom Films.

YouTube Screengrab

Phantom Films had four head honchos including Anurag Kashyap, Madhu Mantena, Vikramaditya Motwane and Bahl himself. A report that was carried by Mumbai Mirror on April 5 too had hinted at Bahl’s involvement in a sexual harassment case.

Confirming the report, Mumbai Mirror has claimed that a woman employee at Phantom Films has indeed accused Bahl of molesting her during their work trip to Goa a few months ago.

Filmfare

The matter was escalated to other partners of Phantom Films and Reliance Entertainment, who have a 50:50 partnership with the company.

What followed was set up of a committee as per the Vishakha guidelines which resulted in Bahl being ousted. An anonymous stakeholder was quoted in the report saying,

Phantom Films





“We (Reliance Entertainment and Phantom Films) have taken a hard stand, based on what we have heard and investigated. The decision needed to be taken because it was getting too much. There are not one, two or three but multiple victims. I was in the middle of a film shoot when I came to know about the first incident and I had to stop my shoot and come to Mumbai…there is (after all) a young girl on whom an intoxicated Vikas forced himself while they were in Goa. He has behaved badly in the past as well but when this specific complaint came, we needed to act on it.“

Even though Madhu Mantena has refused to accept any such claims against Vikas, he has been reportedly asked to quit.

Don't Miss 221 SHARES 64.5 K SHARES 64.9 K SHARES 18.2 K SHARES 16.7 K SHARES

(Vikas Bahl has denied all such allegations. In his statement, he said that he has known the woman in question since a long time, she is a friend and did not ever act uncomfortable in his company.)