A Real Life Mowgli In UP? 8-YO Girl Found Living With Monkeys, She Doesn't Behave Like Humans
A Real Life Mowgli In UP? 8-YO Girl Found Living With Monkeys, She Doesn't Behave Like Humans
A Real Life Mowgli In UP? 8-YO Girl Found Living With Monkeys, She Doesn't Behave Like Humans Cops in Uttar Pradesh have found a girl who can neither speak nor behave like normal human beings. The 8-year-old girl was rescued by the police in Bahraich from a troop of monkeys. The girl was spotted by sub-inspector Suresh Yadav, who was on a routine patrol in Motipur range of Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary. When he tried to rescue the girl, who seemed to be comfortable with the monkeys, they screeched at him and so did the girl. However, the cops after great efforts managed to rescue the girl and got her admitted to the district hospital. The girl can neither speak nor understands any language, and gets scared at the sight of human beings. The doctors treating her said that she often gets violent. The girl has shown improvement following the treatment, but the improvement has been very slow. She still eats directly from her mouth. While she has been trained to walk on her legs, at times she walks like animals using her hands and legs together.

Cops in Uttar Pradesh have found a girl who can neither speak nor behave like normal human beings. The 8-year-old girl was rescued by the police in Bahraich from a troop of monkeys.

toi

The girl was spotted by sub-inspector Suresh Yadav, who was on a routine patrol in Motipur range of Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary.

When he tried to rescue the girl, who seemed to be comfortable with the monkeys, they screeched at him and so did the girl. However, the cops after great efforts managed to rescue the girl and got her admitted to the district hospital.

bccl/representational image

The girl can neither speak nor understands any language, and gets scared at the sight of human beings. The doctors treating her said that she often gets violent.

bccl/representational image

The girl has shown improvement following the treatment, but the improvement has been very slow. She still eats directly from her mouth. While she has been trained to walk on her legs, at times she walks like animals using her hands and legs together.

Originally Published In The Times Of India