Father of boy missing 20 years pleads guilty to manslaughter
Father of boy missing 20 years pleads guilty to manslaughter
Shares                The father of a Hawaii boy who went missing 20 years ago pleaded guilty to manslaughter Wednesday in a deal with prosecutors that requires him to reveal the location of the child's body. Peter Kema Sr. also entered a guilty plea to hindering prosecution and agreed to a 20-year prison sentence, with a mandatory minimum of six years and eight months if he helps authorities find the remains of his son, Peter Jr., who was 6 when he disappeared. If Kema doesn't cooperate, prosecutors can ask for a 25-year term, Hawaii County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Ricky Damerville said. "This saga doesn't end until we find that body," the prosecutor said after the hearing on the Big Island. Peter Kema didn't provide those details in court Wednesday. He only responded "yes" when a judge asked if he recklessly caused the boy's death by not getting him medical treatment. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the boy known as "Peter Boy," became the face of a campaign for missing and abused children. Posters and bumper stickers asked, "So where's Peter?" Kema and his wife, Jaylin, have long been suspects in the boy's disappearance, but prosecutors said they didn't have enough evidence to charge them until last year, when a grand jury indicted the couple on murder charges. Jaylin Kema pleaded guilty last year to manslaughter in the first official confirmation that the child was dead. In exchange for a one-year sentence with credit for time served, she agreed to waive her marital privilege and testify against her husband if he went to trial. She agreed to facts prosecutors laid out in court about abuse suffered by the boy, her failure to get him medical treatment and his eventual death. In 1996 and 1997, extended family members were concerned that the boy's father was abusing him. An arm injury was left untreated until there was a hole so deep someone could put a finger inside it, Damerville said last year. Despite having health insurance, Jaylin Kema didn't get her son medical treatment and didn't report the abuse because she was afraid of her husband, Damerville said. Sometime between May and June 1997, the couple's then 4-year-old daughter heard Jaylin Kema calling out for her husband and saw her trying to resuscitate the boy. The girl later saw her brother in a box, Damerville said. Prosecutors believe the boy died from septic shock from not getting medical care. They do not believe Jaylin Kema knows the location of the body. Peter Kema told authorities that he took his son from the Big Island to Oahu and gave him to someone named "Aunty Rose Makuakane" in an informal adoption. Police could not find a woman as described by Kema or airline records that indicated he had flown there. Four years ago, Hawaii County Prosecuting Attorney Mitch Roth vowed to give the cold case a fresh look. Roth said he knew that without a body, prosecuting the couple would be difficult. A turning point came when Kema's wife agreed to testify against him, Roth said. Roth was in court Wednesday sitting next to Peter Boy's maternal grandfather. "Now we'll know the truth," Roth said. "It answers the question for the public: Where is Peter Boy?" Shares                  Father of boy missing 20 years pleads guilty to manslaughter   What it means for the Senate to 'go nuclear' on Gorsuch nomination   Father loses 9-month-old twins in Syrian chemical attack   Dem senator holds floor in 15-hour speech to slam Supreme Court nominee   Border wall 'unlikely' to stretch 'from sea to shining sea': DHS head   Federal agents raid California business in green card probe   Baltimore residents to comment on plan to overhaul police   Carolinas bracing for next round of severe weather   US will take action on Syrian chemical attacks if UN doesn't   F-16 crashes in suburban Maryland   Man pleads not guilty to murder as terrorism for allegedly targeting black man in NYC   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Firefighters honor family that returned lost wallet   Giant panda Tian Tian dangles while climbing tree   Golden retriever catches taco full of spaghetti in midair   US court ruling could bring more suits over Nazi-looted art   Dalai Lama consecrates monastery in India as China seethes   Hundreds march in Amsterdam to support beaten gay couple   Afghanistan dangles lithium wealth to win Trump support   Man charged in fatal shootings of 4 at Chicago restaurant   Queens jogger murder suspect now charged with sexual abuse   Wife of Pulse nightclub gunman to return to Florida for trial   Defense rests in Aaron Hernandez's double-murder trial   Dog saves wedding party from suicide bomber in Nigeria   No, the US House didn't vote to block Sharia   Tree planted in honor of allegedly kidnapped teen Elizabeth Thomas   'Master of None' season 2 trailer features celeb cast additions   Missouri sheriff charged with assault in woman's handcuffing   St. Petersburg honors bombing victims as investigation continues   Pepsi pulls protest ad with Kendall Jenner after backlash   William Shatner recalls spending First Contact Day with Carrie Fisher   Taylor Swift's home has been designated as a historic landmark

The father of a Hawaii boy who went missing 20 years ago pleaded guilty to manslaughter Wednesday in a deal with prosecutors that requires him to reveal the location of the child's body.

Peter Kema Sr. also entered a guilty plea to hindering prosecution and agreed to a 20-year prison sentence, with a mandatory minimum of six years and eight months if he helps authorities find the remains of his son, Peter Jr., who was 6 when he disappeared.

If Kema doesn't cooperate, prosecutors can ask for a 25-year term, Hawaii County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Ricky Damerville said.

"This saga doesn't end until we find that body," the prosecutor said after the hearing on the Big Island.

Peter Kema didn't provide those details in court Wednesday. He only responded "yes" when a judge asked if he recklessly caused the boy's death by not getting him medical treatment.

In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the boy known as "Peter Boy," became the face of a campaign for missing and abused children. Posters and bumper stickers asked, "So where's Peter?"

Kema and his wife, Jaylin, have long been suspects in the boy's disappearance, but prosecutors said they didn't have enough evidence to charge them until last year, when a grand jury indicted the couple on murder charges.

Jaylin Kema pleaded guilty last year to manslaughter in the first official confirmation that the child was dead. In exchange for a one-year sentence with credit for time served, she agreed to waive her marital privilege and testify against her husband if he went to trial.

She agreed to facts prosecutors laid out in court about abuse suffered by the boy, her failure to get him medical treatment and his eventual death.

In 1996 and 1997, extended family members were concerned that the boy's father was abusing him. An arm injury was left untreated until there was a hole so deep someone could put a finger inside it, Damerville said last year.

Despite having health insurance, Jaylin Kema didn't get her son medical treatment and didn't report the abuse because she was afraid of her husband, Damerville said.

Sometime between May and June 1997, the couple's then 4-year-old daughter heard Jaylin Kema calling out for her husband and saw her trying to resuscitate the boy. The girl later saw her brother in a box, Damerville said.

Prosecutors believe the boy died from septic shock from not getting medical care. They do not believe Jaylin Kema knows the location of the body.

Peter Kema told authorities that he took his son from the Big Island to Oahu and gave him to someone named "Aunty Rose Makuakane" in an informal adoption. Police could not find a woman as described by Kema or airline records that indicated he had flown there.

Four years ago, Hawaii County Prosecuting Attorney Mitch Roth vowed to give the cold case a fresh look. Roth said he knew that without a body, prosecuting the couple would be difficult.

A turning point came when Kema's wife agreed to testify against him, Roth said.

Roth was in court Wednesday sitting next to Peter Boy's maternal grandfather.

"Now we'll know the truth," Roth said. "It answers the question for the public: Where is Peter Boy?"