'Nuclear option' expected after Democrats filibuster Neil Gorsuch Supreme Court nomination
Democrats filibuster Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch
Shares               The Senate is expected to alter the longstanding practice for confirming Supreme Court justices after Democrats today blocked the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch . Republicans on their own did not have enough votes to end the floor debate on Gorsuch’s nomination, a move known as cloture, under the current rules requiring 60 votes. The first Senate vote to end debate (cloture) on Gorsuch's nomination failed with a vote of 55-45. They accuse Democrats of unfairly obstructing a qualified jurist, while Democrats argue that Gorsuch is too radical for the court.         In order to bypass Democrats’ opposition, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell , R-Ky., is expected to invoke the so-called “nuclear option,” which would allow him to change Senate precedent on voting on Supreme Court cloture votes from a 60-vote threshold to a simple majority of 51 votes. “One way or the other, we will confirm Judge Gorsuch,” McConnell told reporters Tuesday. Today on the Senate floor, Sen. McConnell made a last plea to his colleagues not to force him to trigger the "nuclear option." "So let me say this to my Democratic colleagues: If you truly cannot support the nomination of this eminently qualified nominee, then at least allow the bipartisan majority of the Senate that supports Gorsuch to take an up-or-down vote," Sen. McConnell said. "You already deployed the nuclear option in 2013. Don’t trigger it again in 2017." The actual proceedings that comprise the “nuclear option” are somewhat wonky. The majority leader and presiding officer, guided by parliamentary experts, go through a series of choreographed steps in which the leader suggests a change to the rules, the presiding officer challenges him, and then the leader calls a vote on a rules change, which only requires 51 votes. After the rules change, the Senate will hold a second cloture vote, this one only requiring the simple majority. Once passed, that vote starts the clock on a 30-hour debate period, after which time the Senate votes on the Gorsuch confirmation itself, likely sometime Friday afternoon or evening. Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., asked the Senate this morning to move the vote to late April. McConnell’s invocation of the “nuclear option” would not be the first time it’s done. Then-leader Harry Reid , D-Nevada, did the same thing in 2013 in response to what Democrats said was historic obstruction of President Barack Obama’s Cabinet nominees and lower-court judicial appointees. The margin was lowered on those votes, but the threshold for Supreme Court nominations went unchanged. Shares                  Democrats filibuster Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch   Rep. Devin Nunes steps away from Russia investigation amid ethics complaints   A timeline of Trump's unsubstantiated wiretapping claims   Trump defends Fox News' O'Reilly   10 times Trump attacked China   The Note: Trump redraws Syria lines   ANALYSIS: Senate's 'nuclear option' may have lasting consequences   Trump faces major diplomatic test in summit with China's Xi Jinping   Everything you need to know about a Senate filibuster   Border wall 'unlikely' to stretch 'from sea to shining sea': DHS head   Republicans prepare to leave Washington without resolving health care disputes   Police find remains of missing Missouri woman   Secret Service agent on Pence's detail arrested for allegedly soliciting prostitute   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Firefighters honor family that returned lost wallet

The Senate is expected to alter the longstanding practice for confirming Supreme Court justices after Democrats today blocked the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch.

Republicans on their own did not have enough votes to end the floor debate on Gorsuch’s nomination, a move known as cloture, under the current rules requiring 60 votes. The first Senate vote to end debate (cloture) on Gorsuch's nomination failed with a vote of 55-45.

They accuse Democrats of unfairly obstructing a qualified jurist, while Democrats argue that Gorsuch is too radical for the court.

J. Scott Applewhite/AP Photo

In order to bypass Democrats’ opposition, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., is expected to invoke the so-called “nuclear option,” which would allow him to change Senate precedent on voting on Supreme Court cloture votes from a 60-vote threshold to a simple majority of 51 votes.

“One way or the other, we will confirm Judge Gorsuch,” McConnell told reporters Tuesday.

Today on the Senate floor, Sen. McConnell made a last plea to his colleagues not to force him to trigger the "nuclear option."

"So let me say this to my Democratic colleagues: If you truly cannot support the nomination of this eminently qualified nominee, then at least allow the bipartisan majority of the Senate that supports Gorsuch to take an up-or-down vote," Sen. McConnell said. "You already deployed the nuclear option in 2013. Don’t trigger it again in 2017."

The actual proceedings that comprise the “nuclear option” are somewhat wonky. The majority leader and presiding officer, guided by parliamentary experts, go through a series of choreographed steps in which the leader suggests a change to the rules, the presiding officer challenges him, and then the leader calls a vote on a rules change, which only requires 51 votes.

After the rules change, the Senate will hold a second cloture vote, this one only requiring the simple majority. Once passed, that vote starts the clock on a 30-hour debate period, after which time the Senate votes on the Gorsuch confirmation itself, likely sometime Friday afternoon or evening.

Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., asked the Senate this morning to move the vote to late April.

McConnell’s invocation of the “nuclear option” would not be the first time it’s done. Then-leader Harry Reid, D-Nevada, did the same thing in 2013 in response to what Democrats said was historic obstruction of President Barack Obama’s Cabinet nominees and lower-court judicial appointees. The margin was lowered on those votes, but the threshold for Supreme Court nominations went unchanged.