Barack Obama to visit Scotland for charity fundraiser
Barack Obama to visit Scotland for charity fundraiser
Former US President Barack Obama is to make his first visit to Scotland when he addresses business leaders in the capital next month. The Democrat, who served eight years in the White House, will also answer questions from the audience at the event, which is be held to raise money for charity. The dinner in Edinburgh on May 26 is thought to be one of his first major addresses since his term as president came to an end. It is being organised by The Hunter Foundation, set up by leading businessman and philanthropist Sir Tom Hunter, with tickets for a table of 10 expected to go on sale for approximately £5,000. All of the cash raised will be split between children's charities in Scotland and the Obama Foundation, set up by the former president and his wife Michelle . Read more Donald Trump blames Barack Obama for Syria 'chemical weapons' attack Fox News tried to criticise Barack Obama, accidentally praised him Obama is 'genuinely concerned' over latest Trump developments Barack Obama is returning to politics Barack Obama calls out Donald Trump's 'ridiculous' wiretapping claims Sir Tom also plans to set aside some seats at the event for local young people. He said: “From the South Side of Chicago to the White House has been an epic, historic journey and it will be a true honour to hear that story from the man who made that journey. “We are both truly proud and delighted to be hosting the 44th President of the United States in Scotland at this event.” Sir Tom told the Press Association he is “really chuffed” Mr Obama is coming to Scotland. The Hunter Foundation has previously arranged for US politicians and actors including Bill Clinton, Leonardo DiCaprio and George Clooney to come to Scotland. “We're always looking for really inspiring speakers to come along to Scotland, and really inspire and inform,” Sir Tom said. “To be able to get President Obama, we're really chuffed.” You do not have access to view this Atom. The entrepreneur-turned-philanthropist also revealed he is planning a special surprise for the 44th US President. He said: “President Obama loves his music, so we're getting some interesting guests.” More about: Barack Obama Michelle Obama Scotland Edinburgh Comments

Former US President Barack Obama is to make his first visit to Scotland when he addresses business leaders in the capital next month.

The Democrat, who served eight years in the White House, will also answer questions from the audience at the event, which is be held to raise money for charity.

The dinner in Edinburgh on May 26 is thought to be one of his first major addresses since his term as president came to an end.

It is being organised by The Hunter Foundation, set up by leading businessman and philanthropist Sir Tom Hunter, with tickets for a table of 10 expected to go on sale for approximately £5,000.

All of the cash raised will be split between children's charities in Scotland and the Obama Foundation, set up by the former president and his wife Michelle.

Sir Tom also plans to set aside some seats at the event for local young people.

He said: “From the South Side of Chicago to the White House has been an epic, historic journey and it will be a true honour to hear that story from the man who made that journey.

“We are both truly proud and delighted to be hosting the 44th President of the United States in Scotland at this event.”

Sir Tom told the Press Association he is “really chuffed” Mr Obama is coming to Scotland.

The Hunter Foundation has previously arranged for US politicians and actors including Bill Clinton, Leonardo DiCaprio and George Clooney to come to Scotland.

“We're always looking for really inspiring speakers to come along to Scotland, and really inspire and inform,” Sir Tom said.

“To be able to get President Obama, we're really chuffed.”

You do not have access to view this Atom.

The entrepreneur-turned-philanthropist also revealed he is planning a special surprise for the 44th US President.

He said: “President Obama loves his music, so we're getting some interesting guests.”

Press Association