This person shut down a Twitter troll so hard even J.K. Rowling approved
This person shut down a Twitter troll so hard even J.K. Rowling approved
When J.K. Rowling praises your troll-crushing technique on Twitter, you know you're doing something right. SEE ALSO: 27 times J.K. Rowling was the hero we all needed in 2016 On Tuesday, designer and writer Christian Fox shared the following reaction to the now-infamous Kendall Jenner Pepsi advert . pepsi can explodes along with most of kendall jenner's hand as a frightened cop with 6 months' training sees her approach with an arm raised — Goth Ms. Frizzle (@spookperson) April 4, 2017 The tweet was shared over a thousand times and — unsurprisingly — led to a few trolls coming out of the woodwork. Luckily, Fox is clearly quite adept at handling trolls. Image: @spookperson Very, very adept. Image: @spookperson Image: @spookperson This was the end result. Image: @spookperson Fox shared those screengrabs later in the day. At the time of writing, the tweet has been shared over 21,000 times. daily reminder that there's only one way to deal with these people pic.twitter.com/DbbSSltHag — Goth Ms. Frizzle (@spookperson) April 4, 2017 By Wednesday, it had reached the original troll-crusher herself — and Rowling clearly approved. *bows reverently to a Twitter master* https://t.co/OYJeOQJdaC — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) April 5, 2017 When you make it onto J.K. Rowling's pinned tweet, you've pretty much won at life. I woke up and I'm JK Rowling's pinned tweet A post shared by Christian Fox (@spookperson) on WATCH: J.K. Rowling weighs in hard on the Donald Trump/Meryl Streep feud

When J.K. Rowling praises your troll-crushing technique on Twitter, you know you're doing something right.

On Tuesday, designer and writer Christian Fox shared the following reaction to the now-infamous Kendall Jenner Pepsi advert.

pepsi can explodes along with most of kendall jenner's hand as a frightened cop with 6 months' training sees her approach with an arm raised — Goth Ms. Frizzle (@spookperson) April 4, 2017

The tweet was shared over a thousand times and — unsurprisingly — led to a few trolls coming out of the woodwork.

Luckily, Fox is clearly quite adept at handling trolls.

Very, very adept.

This was the end result.

Fox shared those screengrabs later in the day. At the time of writing, the tweet has been shared over 21,000 times.

daily reminder that there's only one way to deal with these people pic.twitter.com/DbbSSltHag — Goth Ms. Frizzle (@spookperson) April 4, 2017

By Wednesday, it had reached the original troll-crusher herself — and Rowling clearly approved.

*bows reverently to a Twitter master* https://t.co/OYJeOQJdaC — J.K. Rowling (@jk_rowling) April 5, 2017

When you make it onto J.K. Rowling's pinned tweet, you've pretty much won at life.

I woke up and I'm JK Rowling's pinned tweet A post shared by Christian Fox (@spookperson) on Apr 5, 2017 at 12:51pm PDT