Xbox Scorpio: Does This Mean It's Game Over For The PS4?
Xbox Scorpio: Does This Mean It's Game Over For The PS4?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Erik Kain       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Sony/Erik Kain Will the Scorpio be the doom of the PlayStation 4? Microsoft is slated for an Xbox Scorpio reveal of some sort tomorrow morning at Eurogamer's hardware vertical, Digital Foundry. This is great news for gamers because Digital Foundr is one of the best, most trustworthy sources of gamer-tech info out there. Those guys are smart, savvy and honest and they should be able to give us an in-depth look at this Xbox refresh, for both layman and experts alike. We'll know a lot more tomorrow morning, but what we know right now is that the Xbox Scorpio is set to be about 4.5 times more powerful than the Xbox One, and significantly more powerful than Sony's flagship PS4 Pro. We don't know all the details---the processor remains a mystery, for instance---but the GPU runs at The question is whether that's enough to give the PS4 a run for its money. Given just how far of a lead Sony's console has at this point , it's a pretty tough call. My colleague Paul Tassi lists off the things that Microsoft needs to do with the Scorpio in order for it to succeed . I agree on pretty much every point. He argues that the system should cost no more than $400, that it needs to launch with strong exclusives, and that the power advantage has to be clear and obvious. Of these, I'm least convinced that the price-point matters. Yes, it would be nice to see it launch at $400, but if it's also going to have a clear and obvious power advantage that may not be possible right away. $400 also restricts just how far Microsoft can go when it comes to holiday sales and bundle deals. I suppose that when it comes to price, Microsoft is between a rock and a hard place. $400 strikes me as somewhat low for a system that seeks to unseat the PS4 Pro, That console retails for $400 and is significantly less powerful (though expect to see an instant price-slashing as soon as Microsoft lists the Scorpio sticker price.) Power and exclusives, then, will be the real drivers of the Scorpio's success. In the exclusive content department, the Xbox One has taken a major backseat, especially in 2017. This is why I said, somewhat puckishly, that it's "Game Over" for the Xbox One . The system is less powerful and has fewer good exclusive titles, something the current year has made more apparent than ever. To make matters worse, games like and the new will retain their PlayStation first deals, bringing exclusive content to PS4 players before Xbox and PC players for both franchises. Things are grim, to say the least. But the Scorpio could still turn the tide. If it is markedly more powerful, with much better looking games than the PS4, I could see a reversal in fortunes (even if I don't necessarily think it's a good idea for the industry, with ever more high-fidelity video games constantly driving up development costs while game prices remain fixed.) But without really, really strong exclusive content the Xbox Scorpio will continue to play second fiddle, chasing market dominance in a more expensive shell. The fact that all Xbox first-party games are now also available on PC makes this an even greater challenge. Why buy an Xbox when you can simply play its best games on Windows 10? The only good answer to that question is if the Scorpio provides a power/price + convenience value that's simply far better than what you'd get with a modern gaming PC. In any case, strong Xbox Scorpio titles are a must for the system to overtake PS4, and while that's possible, Microsoft has not inspired confidence in recent months. They've cancelled games like while tried-and-true franchises like and have long-since left their glory days behind them. The franchise is still strong, but racing games are not nearly as big a draw as major shooters. A new, innovative shooter franchise to rival would be a good idea at this point . A new couldn't hurt, either. One way or another, if the Scorpio wants to strike back at the Sony empire, it's going to need great games. Not just good games, but great games. Ideally a strong new shooter franchise (see the last link) but also something to appeal to non-American gamers, like an Xbox JRPG. A new style game wouldn't hurt, either. (Recall, the original was an Xbox console exclusive; maybe Microsoft should commission another game of that caliber and genre.) So to answer the question, ' I'd say "yes" but it's a very qualified "yes" and it depends on much more than specs and sticker-price. That being said, I think the most likely outcome is that the PS4 retains its market lead. At this point, the only way I can even imagine the Scorpio truly overtaking the PS4, at least globally, is if it ends up being a completely new console rather than a refreshed Xbox One, which strikes me as entirely unlikely at this point, and perhaps even premature. We'll know at least a few more details tomorrow morning so stay tuned. I doubt we'll learn price or any unannounced exclusives until E3 in June, however. Thoughts? The Best First-Person Shooters Of 2016 I'd love it if you followed me on Twitter and Facebook and subscribed to my channel on YouTube . Also feel free to subscribe to my posts by email . Thanks for reading. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Sony/Erik Kain

Microsoft is slated for an Xbox Scorpio reveal of some sort tomorrow morning at Eurogamer's hardware vertical, Digital Foundry. This is great news for gamers because Digital Foundry is one of the best, most trustworthy sources of gamer-tech info out there. Those guys are smart, savvy and honest and they should be able to give us an in-depth look at this Xbox refresh, for both layman and experts alike.

We'll know a lot more tomorrow morning, but what we know right now is that the Xbox Scorpio is set to be about 4.5 times more powerful than the Xbox One, and significantly more powerful than Sony's flagship PS4 Pro. We don't know all the details---the processor remains a mystery, for instance---but the GPU runs at 6 teraflops with 320GB/s bandwidth compared to the PS4 Pro's 4.12 teraflops and 218 GB/s bandwidth. We don't know what kind of memory the Scorpio has, either, or how much. More light will be shed tomorrow. Either way, this is a significant boost over the PS4 Pro, and a good sign that this new, updated Xbox One will be the most powerful console on the block.

The question is whether that's enough to give the PS4 a run for its money. Given just how far of a lead Sony's console has at this point, it's a pretty tough call.

My colleague Paul Tassi lists off the things that Microsoft needs to do with the Scorpio in order for it to succeed. I agree on pretty much every point. He argues that the system should cost no more than $400, that it needs to launch with strong exclusives, and that the power advantage has to be clear and obvious.

Of these, I'm least convinced that the price-point matters. Yes, it would be nice to see it launch at $400, but if it's also going to have a clear and obvious power advantage that may not be possible right away. $400 also restricts just how far Microsoft can go when it comes to holiday sales and bundle deals. I suppose that when it comes to price, Microsoft is between a rock and a hard place. $400 strikes me as somewhat low for a system that seeks to unseat the PS4 Pro, That console retails for $400 and is significantly less powerful (though expect to see an instant price-slashing as soon as Microsoft lists the Scorpio sticker price.)

Power and exclusives, then, will be the real drivers of the Scorpio's success. In the exclusive content department, the Xbox One has taken a major backseat, especially in 2017. This is why I said, somewhat puckishly, that it's "Game Over" for the Xbox One. The system is less powerful and has fewer good exclusive titles, something the current year has made more apparent than ever. To make matters worse, games like Destiny 2 and the new Call of Duty will retain their PlayStation first deals, bringing exclusive content to PS4 players before Xbox and PC players for both franchises.

Things are grim, to say the least. But the Scorpio could still turn the tide. If it is markedly more powerful, with much better looking games than the PS4, I could see a reversal in fortunes (even if I don't necessarily think it's a good idea for the industry, with ever more high-fidelity video games constantly driving up development costs while game prices remain fixed.) But without really, really strong exclusive content the Xbox Scorpio will continue to play second fiddle, chasing market dominance in a more expensive shell. The fact that all Xbox first-party games are now also available on PC makes this an even greater challenge. Why buy an Xbox when you can simply play its best games on Windows 10? The only good answer to that question is if the Scorpio provides a power/price + convenience value that's simply far better than what you'd get with a modern gaming PC.

In any case, strong Xbox Scorpio titles are a must for the system to overtake PS4, and while that's possible, Microsoft has not inspired confidence in recent months. They've cancelled games like Scalebound while tried-and-true franchises like Gears of War and Halo have long-since left their glory days behind them. The Forza franchise is still strong, but racing games are not nearly as big a draw as major shooters.

A new, innovative shooter franchise to rival Destiny would be a good idea at this point. A new Fable couldn't hurt, either. One way or another, if the Scorpio wants to strike back at the Sony empire, it's going to need great games. Not just good games, but great games. Ideally a strong new shooter franchise (see the last link) but also something to appeal to non-American gamers, like an Xbox JRPG. A new Mass Effect style game wouldn't hurt, either. (Recall, the original Mass Effect was an Xbox console exclusive; maybe Microsoft should commission another game of that caliber and genre.)

So to answer the question, 'Can Xbox Scorpio give the PS4 a run for its money?' I'd say "yes" but it's a very qualified "yes" and it depends on much more than specs and sticker-price. That being said, I think the most likely outcome is that the PS4 retains its market lead. At this point, the only way I can even imagine the Scorpio truly overtaking the PS4, at least globally, is if it ends up being a completely new console rather than a refreshed Xbox One, which strikes me as entirely unlikely at this point, and perhaps even premature.

We'll know at least a few more details tomorrow morning so stay tuned. I doubt we'll learn price or any unannounced exclusives until E3 in June, however.

Thoughts?

I'd love it if you followed me on Twitter and Facebook and subscribed to my channel on YouTube. Also feel free to subscribe to my posts by email. Thanks for reading.