Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago
Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago


ABC News' Lara Spencer reports the buzziest stories of the day in "GMA" Pop News.

Daniel Craig reportedly now the front-runner to return as James Bond

Prince Harry paid tribute to his late mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, in a speech urging people to carry on her fight against land mines.

Prince William, Princess Kate and Prince Harry attended service at Westminster Abbey in honor of those killed in last month's attack.

Police are searching for two "dangerous" inmates who escaped from a correctional center in Washington state Tuesday.

President Donald Trump condemned the "heinous actions" in Syria during his remarks alongside Jordanian King Abdullah II.

Evan and Melissa Tate, of Rockwall, Texas, threw an elaborate state fair-themed wedding on their family's 700-acre farm.

A musician and his cello scored a free ride from an apologetic American Airlines after the carrier booted them from a plane because the crew deemed the instrument a flight risk.

American Airlines apologizes for booting musician and his cello as flight risk

The Memphis Zoo welcomed an addition to its family: an adorable, 76-pound baby hippo. The zoo is holding a contest to name the female hippo.

Plus, the stars of "Brockmire" dish on the new comedy and Julia Roberts discusses "Smurfs: The Lost Village."

Colleen, 10, who was dropped off at a Florida fire station as a baby in 2006, unveiled the truck that was named after her on March 31, 2017.

In July 2006, Lt. Dan Miller, of Lake County Fire Rescue, in Florida, got a call from a woman that said she was going to drop off a baby.

A short time later, a woman arrived at the firehouse pushing a carriage holding a day-old infant, Colleen.

Nearly 11 years later, Miller, now a chief, came face-to-face with the girl he helped rescue for the first time after naming a fire truck in her honor.

"I was nervous," Miller said. "I didn't know exactly what to say to her, but I had a bouquet of flowers for her. We talked a little bit and then she got to see the fire truck and tour the station."

View gallery Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago (ABC News)

Miller recalled to ABC News being on duty as shift lieutenant on July 1, 2006 when an unknown woman left baby Colleen with him at the fire station.

"This woman walked up and handed me a baby carriage and inside was Colleen, sleeping," said Miller, who is now EMS battalion chief for the department. "She didn't say anything, didn't make any eye contact. I briefly asked if there's anything I needed to know and she just walked away."

Colleen was transported to the local hospital for a medical evaluation.

View gallery Lake County Fire Rescue

She was the first baby in Lake County to ever be dropped at the fire station, Miller said.

In 2000, Florida's Baby Safe Haven law went into effect. The law says parents can anonymously leave their baby, up to 7 days old, with an employee at any hospital, emergency medical services station or with a firefighter at any fire station in the state, without fear of arrest or prosecution -- so long as there is no suspected child abuse.

A year later, Miller and his colleagues received a Christmas card with a photo of Colleen and a thank you note from her adopted family.

Colleen had been adopted by a local couple, Lara and James, on Oct. 31, 2006. Over the years, Lara sent photo updates to the firefighters who ensured her daughter's safety that night in 2006.

View gallery Lake County Fire Rescue

On March 31, the firefighters of Lake County Fire Rescue invited Colleen, now 10, her family and friends, to the station for a very special reason.

"Station 112 got a brand new fire truck -- we said, 'Hey, let's name the truck after the baby that was dropped off here," Chief Miller recalled.

Colleen's mother, Lara, who declined to give her last name for privacy reasons, said: "It's very exciting."

Colleen did the unveiling of her name on the fire truck, and was named an honorary firefighter.

Her mom Lara said she will continue to bring her daughter by the firehouse in the future.

"Even though it's been almost 11 years, to think they thought unanimously that it was how they should name the truck...you never know if people are remembering her and they really did," the mom said.