What’s Wrong With This Photo of Melania Trump and Queen Rania?
What’s Wrong With This Photo of Melania Trump and Queen Rania?
Melania Trump may not live in the White House, but she made a rare appearance Wednesday to welcome King Abdullah II and Queen Rania of Jordan. Wearing an emerald-green long-sleeved dress with a black belt and black heels, Melania greeted the royal couple , alongside President Trump. Queen Rania, who is considered an international style icon and unofficial “ Balmain Army ” member, wore a calf-length black belted dress with a white neckline. The couples met in the Oval Office to discuss the war in Syria and antiterrorism measures and afterward posed for photos, one of which caught heat on Twitter for its “weird” arrangement. Journalist Yashiar Ali tweeted a shot of the two men sitting in chairs, with their wives standing stiffly behind them. A senior State Department protocol official describes this setup (with Queen Rania and Mrs. Trump standing) as "so weird" pic.twitter.com/CziAljdqWC — Yashar (@yashar) April 5, 2017 After the meeting, the president said of the chemical attack in Syria that killed 72 people , “These are very troubled times in the Middle East. And we see what happened just recently, yesterday in Syria. Horrible. Horrible thing. Unspeakable.” Melania and Queen Rania then headed off to lunch, followed by a visit to Excel Academy Public Charter School, an all-girls institution, with Education Secretary Betsy DeVos . According to a story published by ABC News, the women engaged in a roundtable discussion with students, parents, and teachers, and visited a science class and an art class. Education is an important topic for the queen, who serves as eminent advocate for UNICEF and as honorary chairperson for the United Nations Girls’ Education Initiative . Back in January, first daughter Ivanka Trump also met with Queen Rania, to discuss issues related to women around the world. Kate Middleton Inspires Stylish Copycat Bloggers Designer Defends Melania Trump’s ‘Disgusting’ Official Photo: ‘Go to Hell’ Kate Middleton Rocks Red Gown for Opening Night of Musical

Melania Trump and Queen Rania of Jordon walk outside of the White House. (Photo: Getty Images)

Melania Trump may not live in the White House, but she made a rare appearance Wednesday to welcome King Abdullah II and Queen Rania of Jordan.

Wearing an emerald-green long-sleeved dress with a black belt and black heels, Melania greeted the royal couple, alongside President Trump. Queen Rania, who is considered an international style icon and unofficial “Balmain Army” member, wore a calf-length black belted dress with a white neckline.

The couples met in the Oval Office to discuss the war in Syria and antiterrorism measures and afterward posed for photos, one of which caught heat on Twitter for its “weird” arrangement. Journalist Yashiar Ali tweeted a shot of the two men sitting in chairs, with their wives standing stiffly behind them.

A senior State Department protocol official describes this setup (with Queen Rania and Mrs. Trump standing) as "so weird" pic.twitter.com/CziAljdqWC — Yashar (@yashar) April 5, 2017





After the meeting, the president said of the chemical attack in Syria that killed 72 people, “These are very troubled times in the Middle East. And we see what happened just recently, yesterday in Syria. Horrible. Horrible thing. Unspeakable.”

Melania and Queen Rania then headed off to lunch, followed by a visit to Excel Academy Public Charter School, an all-girls institution, with Education Secretary Betsy DeVos. According to a story published by ABC News, the women engaged in a roundtable discussion with students, parents, and teachers, and visited a science class and an art class.

Education is an important topic for the queen, who serves as eminent advocate for UNICEF and as honorary chairperson for the United Nations Girls’ Education Initiative. Back in January, first daughter Ivanka Trump also met with Queen Rania, to discuss issues related to women around the world.

Read more from Yahoo Style + Beauty:

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Pinterest for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day. For Twitter updates, follow @YahooStyle and @YahooBeauty.