Senate Is Expected to Vote to End Supreme Court Filibuster
Senate Is Expected to Vote to End Supreme Court Filibuster 
Biography Byron Tau @ByronTau byron.tau@wsj.com WASHINGTON—The Senate is on the verge of a major rules change sparked by Judge Neil Gorsuch’s nomination to be a U.S. Supreme Court justice, as Republicans and Democrats barrel toward a partisan showdown on the Senate floor over the future of the filibuster. The first procedural vote on Judge Gorsuch, President Donald Trump’s nominee to a lifetime appointment on the Supreme Court, is expected Thursday morning—a vote where the GOP is expected to fall short. As a result, Senate Republicans are expected to use a procedural... Most Popular Videos  Pepsi Pulls Ad Depicting Police and Protesters  Bill O'Reilly Controversy: More Companies Pull Ads  Costco Under Pressure to Compete With Amazon Online   Trump's U.S. Golf Clubs Are Struggling    Trump Addresses Chemical Attack in Syria  Most Popular Articles      Steve Bannon Removed From National Security Council’s Principals Committee        How Target Botched Its Response to the North Carolina Bathroom Law        Senate on the Brink of ‘Nuclear Option’ in Gorsuch Vote        Sessions Presses Shift at Justice Department        Why Foreigners Keep Buying the Debt of America’s Small Towns

With Senate Republicans set to eliminate the filibuster for Supreme Court nominees, WSJ's Gerald F. Seib examines the ramifications of potentially eliminating filibusters altogether. Photo: Getty

WASHINGTON—The Senate is on the verge of a major rules change sparked by Judge Neil Gorsuch’s nomination to be a U.S. Supreme Court justice, as Republicans and Democrats barrel toward a partisan showdown on the Senate floor over the future of the filibuster.

The first procedural vote on Judge Gorsuch, President Donald Trump’s nominee to a lifetime appointment on the Supreme Court, is expected Thursday morning—a vote where the GOP is expected to fall short. As a result, Senate Republicans are expected to use a procedural...