Russian who lost family in plane crash stabs controller
Russian who lost his family in a mid-air plane crash became a murderer


Driven to murder by grief and a suffocating sense of injustice, a Russian father tracked down and slaughtered the air traffic controller he blamed for the mid-air crash that killed his family.

Vitaly Kaloyev lost his wife and two children, aged 10 and four, when a passenger jet and a cargo flight crashed above Germany in 2002.

He was adamant it was the fault of aviation expert Peter Nielsen, who was working alone when the tragedy occurred.

Grieving Kaloyev spent two years searching for answers and when he thought he had exhausted every option, he tracked down Nielsen and stabbed him to death in his back garden.

The heartbreaking story is being played out in a new film called Aftermath which stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as Kaloyev.

A heartbreaking family album photo shows Vitaly Kaloyev and his daugther Diana near their home in Vladikavkaz, Russia

Relatives of victims are pictured where the wreckage of the crashed Russian Tupolev 154 passenger plane, was found close to Uberlingen, after a commemorative service

Vitaly Kaloyev (left), who has since been released from a Swiss prison, stands at a monument for Beslan siege victims upon his return to Vladikavkaz in 2007 where he turned the family home into a shrine (right)

An undated family album picture shows his son Konstantin (left) and daughter, Diana Kaloyev

Vitaly Kaloyev lost his wife Svetlana, 10-year-old son Konstantin and four-year-old daughter Diana (left to right)

Following the tragic crash, which claimed the lives of 71 people, Kaloyev spiraled into a pit of depression, refusing to shave and constantly wore black.

He turned the family home in Vladikavkas into a shrine to his family - wife Svetlana, 10-year-old son Konstantin and four-year-old daughter Diana - and set about seeking justice for their deaths.

Two years later, he sneaked into the house of Peter Nielsen, 36, who he blamed for the crash.

He was by himself in the control room in Zurich on the night of the tragedy when he gave only 44 seconds' warning to the passenger jet on which the family was flying that it was too close to a cargo aircraft.

Kaloyev found Nielsen in his garden and plunged a 14cm knife into his stomach before fleeing the scene.

He was arrested at Zurich airport and charged with murder.

Now, former California Governor Schwarzenegger will act out the tale in a Hollywood movie, but Kaloyev said filmmakers had neither contacted nor consulted him while filming the story of his life.

The portrait, bed and toys of a four-year-old Diana, daughter of Vitaly Kaloyev, in a shrine he made for her

Vitaly Kaloyev smiles as he talks to a media at the airport in Moscow early in November 2007. Arnold Schwarzenegger (right) will play Vitaly Kaloyev in a film about his life

Headstone of the Kaloyev family at a cemetery in Vladikavkaz after they were killed in the crash

The tombstone with portraits of family members of construction engineer Vitaly Kaloyev. His wife Svetlana is holding flowers in the centre flanked by her daughter Diana (right) and son Konstantin (left)

Konstantin was killed aged 10. His father also turned his bedroom into a shrine

Vitaly Kaloyev, released from Swiss prison, stands in front of a tomb of his wife and two children

Vitaly Kaloyev drinks a traditional glass of vodka upon his arrival to a home town of Vladikavkaz

While his family were miles in the air on the brink of disaster, Kaloyev was in Barcelona waiting for them to arrive.

He was building a house in Spain and was about to head to the airport to wait for Bashkarian Airlines Flight 2973 from Moscow to arrive.

Sadly, it never showed.

It was flying over Germany when it collided with DHL flight 611 which was on its way to Belgium from Italy with a cabin full of cargo.

With their paths about to cross, air traffic control was telling the pilots one thing, the pilots of each plane were saying another and the automated Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) on board Flight 2973 was also giving different directions.

The confusion led to the two planes obliterating each other in mid air.

The passenger jet was full and 45 children, 15 adults and nine crew were killed as well as the two pilots on board the DHL plane.

A picture shows victims' relatives gathering at the place where lies the wreckage of the crash

German water inspector takes soil samples by the tail wreckage of a Bashkirian Airlines plane

Investigators stand by the tail wreckage of the doomed plane that crashed over Germany

The devastated front section of a DHL Boeing 757 cargo plane lies in a forest in Germany

Ripped apart by grief, Kayolev was one of the first relatives that arrived at the crash site, according to Newswire.

He desperately searched for his family and somehow found the body of Diana which was still intact due trees breaking her fall two miles away from the plane wreckage.

A free Kaloyev lays flowers at his family's tomb

Svetlana landed in a corn field and his son landed on the road in front of a bus shelter - both had fallen 36,000 feet.

The air traffic controller Nielsen was blamed by the families for the crash, but he was due to be cleared of any charges of negligence.

Kaloyev was offered 160,000 Swiss Francs (around £130,000) as compensation in exchange for not pursuing the company - Skyguide - criminally.

The father was left furious, and wanted to meet Nielsen, a request ignored by the company.

Riddled with grief and a sense of injustice, he hired a private investigator who helped him track down the air traffic controller's address.

Two years after the tragedy, Kayolev turned up on Nielsen's doorstep and stabbed him to death.

Nielsen died in the arms of his own wife and children and Kayolev was arrested at a nearby hotel telling officers he could not remember what he had done.

He was sentenced to eight years in a Swiss prison for the crime, but when he was released in 2007, the North Ossetia-Alania region of Russia made him deputy minister of construction.

Russian officials squeezed the Swiss authorities and Kayolev insisted he was not eligible for prison because he was mentally unstable.

An enthusiastic crowd welcomed his return to Russia when he was released.