Tesla reassures richest customers: You're still getting our best cars
Tesla reassures richest customers: You're still getting our best cars
Don't worry, Tesla Model S owners: you're still number one in Elon Musk's heart. The luxury electric automaker has focused a lot of energy on producing the affordable Model 3 for entry-level sedan buyers. That apparently left some Model S owners facing an identity crisis about whether they should slum it for one of the newer rides. So Tesla published a blog post Thursday clearing up any confusion about the official hierarchy of the Tesla vehicle line. SEE ALSO: The Detroit automaker who killed Tesla in new self-driving car rankings The apple of Tesla's eye won't be the $35,000 Model 3, with its entry-level aspirations and potentially paradigm-shifting sales goals . It's not the Model X SUV, either, which is gaining momentum and selling better lately than any other time in its history. The Model Y is nothing but a figment of Musk's imagination for now. So there's only one car that holds the crown: the $68,000 -plus Model S. "While Model 3 will be our newest car, it isn’t 'Version 3' or the next generation Tesla," the post reads. "Our higher priced premium models still include the most advanced technology and the best driving experience we have to offer." The company even negged the Model 3 for the benefit of its premium customers, saying the car will be "smaller, simpler, and will come with far fewer options than Model S, but it makes driving feel effortless and offers a good range of at least 215 miles for our starting model." Musk also reminded the Twitterverse that the Model S is superior last month: Am noticing that many people think Model 3 is the "next version" of a Tesla, like iPhone 2 vs 3. This is not true. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 24, 2017 So when the Model 3 hits the roads late this year, don't expect to see any fewer Model S cars in your nearest gated community. The Model S will be even more of a status symbol — because Tesla said so. WATCH: I tried a self-driving car in London and lived to tell the tale

Don't worry, Tesla Model S owners: you're still number one in Elon Musk's heart.

The luxury electric automaker has focused a lot of energy on producing the affordable Model 3 for entry-level sedan buyers. That apparently left some Model S owners facing an identity crisis about whether they should slum it for one of the newer rides.

So Tesla published a blog post Thursday reassuring rich Model S drivers clearing up any confusion about the official hierarchy of the Tesla vehicle line.

The apple of Tesla's eye won't be the $35,000 Model 3, with its entry-level aspirations and potentially paradigm-shifting sales goals. It's not the Model X SUV, either, which is gaining momentum and selling better lately than any other time in its history. The Model Y is nothing but a figment of Musk's imagination for now. So there's only one car that holds the crown: the $68,000-plus Model S.

"While Model 3 will be our newest car, it isn’t 'Version 3' or the next generation Tesla," the post reads. "Our higher priced premium models still include the most advanced technology and the best driving experience we have to offer."

The company even negged the Model 3 for the benefit of its premium customers, saying the car will be "smaller, simpler, and will come with far fewer options than Model S, but it makes driving feel effortless and offers a good range of at least 215 miles for our starting model."

Musk also reminded the Twitterverse that the Model S is superior last month:

Am noticing that many people think Model 3 is the "next version" of a Tesla, like iPhone 2 vs 3. This is not true. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 24, 2017

So when the Model 3 hits the roads late this year, don't expect to see any fewer Model S cars in your nearest gated community. The Model S will be even more of a status symbol — because Tesla said so.