A Dalit Groom Thrashed Badly By Upper Caste People Over 'Ghurchari' In Haryana
A Dalit Groom Thrashed Badly By Upper Caste People Over 'Ghurchari' In Haryana
A Dalit Groom Thrashed Badly By Upper Caste People Over 'Ghurchari' In Haryana A Dalit groom was thrashed in Haryana’s Charki Dadri for riding a mare to reach bride’s place as part of the ritual. The incident took place in Sanjarwas village on Tuesday night where a group of boorish youths stopped Sanjay Kumar from mounting a mare, claiming it was only meant for the upper caste. The ritual called Ghurchari is when the groom rides a mare around the village before heading to the bride’s house. The groom and others who were hurt in the fight were taken to hospital for primary treatment. The marriage ceremony was later performed under police security. The police arrived in the village soon after the incident and registered an FIR against 15-16 people of the Rajput community for attacking the Dalits. “We are conducting raids to the nab the accused,” said Vikram Singh, Station House Officer of Baund Police Station. According to a report in Tribune, the bride’s father, Rohtash Singh, has lodged a complaint with the police against 20 people. Sarpanch Vikash Singh said that some unscrupulous elements had tried to create a ruckus and dismissed reports of a caste conflict, sates the report.

A Dalit groom was thrashed in Haryana’s Charki Dadri for riding a mare to reach bride’s place as part of the ritual.

The incident took place in Sanjarwas village on Tuesday night where a group of boorish youths stopped Sanjay Kumar from mounting a mare, claiming it was only meant for the upper caste.

Picture for representation/Reuters

The ritual called Ghurchari is when the groom rides a mare around the village before heading to the bride’s house.

What followed was a heated argument between the marriage party and the upper-caste men. They allegedly thrashed Kumar and injured others who got involved in the scuffle.

The groom and others who were hurt in the fight were taken to hospital for primary treatment. The marriage ceremony was later performed under police security.

Picture for representation/rithala.org

The police arrived in the village soon after the incident and registered an FIR against 15-16 people of the Rajput community for attacking the Dalits.

“We are conducting raids to the nab the accused,” said Vikram Singh, Station House Officer of Baund Police Station.

According to a report in Tribune, the bride’s father, Rohtash Singh, has lodged a complaint with the police against 20 people.

Sarpanch Vikash Singh said that some unscrupulous elements had tried to create a ruckus and dismissed reports of a caste conflict, sates the report.

Don't Miss 304 SHARES 7.9 K SHARES 24.6 K SHARES 32.5 K SHARES 24.9 K SHARES

The incident comes days after similar violence had broken out in a village in Karnal when upper-caste men stopped a Dalit groom from carrying out the marriage ritual of ghurchari.