Indian Doctor Wins Rs 17.5 Crore In Lottery In UAE!
Indian Doctor Wins Rs 17.5 Crore In Lottery In UAE!
Indian Doctor Wins Rs 17.5 Crore In Lottery In UAE! An Indian got lucky in the UAE. A woman doctor, identified as Nishita Radhakrishna Pillai, from Kerala, has won a life-changing lottery in Abu Dhabi of over Rs 17.5 crore. She won the Dirham 10 million (approximately Rs 17,68,00,000) lottery in the Big Ticket raffle. After 50 numerous attempts at striking gold at one of the most-anticipated raffle bonanzas in the UAE, the mother of two finally joined the ranks of high-net-worth individuals. Pillai, a medical practitioner who is currently in the US, is the second person to bring home Dirham 10 million, the biggest amount granted to a draw participant since the inception of the raffle bonanza, Gulf News reported. Pillai, who used to work as a paediatrician in the UAE for approximately two years, is currently in Houston, Texas, with her husband and two children, to finish her fellowship in genetics. Since six months ago, her husband has been buying tickets online under her name and so far, 50 coupons have been purchased. "He would buy five tickets for every draw. My husband is such a big fan of the UAE. Well, we enjoyed our time working there and we do have plans to go back," Pillai was quoted as saying. Pillai and her husband have not decided what to do with the money yet. Last month, a 33-year-old Indian expatriate in Abu Dhabi won over Rs 12 crore. Sreeraj Krishnan Kopparembil, also from Kerala, won a whopping Dirham 7 million (approx. Rs 12,71,70,000) in the Abu Dhabi Big Ticket Draw.

An Indian got lucky in the UAE. A woman doctor, identified as Nishita Radhakrishna Pillai, from Kerala, has won a life-changing lottery in Abu Dhabi of over Rs 17.5 crore. She won the Dirham 10 million (approximately Rs 17,68,00,000) lottery in the Big Ticket raffle.

Facebook

After 50 numerous attempts at striking gold at one of the most-anticipated raffle bonanzas in the UAE, the mother of two finally joined the ranks of high-net-worth individuals.

Pillai, a medical practitioner who is currently in the US, is the second person to bring home Dirham 10 million, the biggest amount granted to a draw participant since the inception of the raffle bonanza, Gulf News reported.

Pillai, who used to work as a paediatrician in the UAE for approximately two years, is currently in Houston, Texas, with her husband and two children, to finish her fellowship in genetics.

Facebook

Since six months ago, her husband has been buying tickets online under her name and so far, 50 coupons have been purchased.

"He would buy five tickets for every draw. My husband is such a big fan of the UAE. Well, we enjoyed our time working there and we do have plans to go back," Pillai was quoted as saying.

Pillai and her husband have not decided what to do with the money yet.

Facebook

Last month, a 33-year-old Indian expatriate in Abu Dhabi won over Rs 12 crore.

Sreeraj Krishnan Kopparembil, also from Kerala, won a whopping Dirham 7 million (approx. Rs 12,71,70,000) in the Abu Dhabi Big Ticket Draw.