WATCH: People Ignore Woman With Her Head Stuck in NYC Subway Doors

WATCH: People Ignore Woman With Her Head Stuck in NYC Subway Doors // // // A disturbing Instagram video shows a woman with her head stuck in the closed doors of a New York City subway car , as passersby unconcernedly walk past her on the platform. The unidentified woman was on the 4 train Tuesday around 12:45 p.m. as it arrived at the Woodlawn station in the Bronx, MTA officials said. The woman apparently rushed for the closing doors after she realized it was the last stop, and got stuck. The Instagram video - which has quickly gone viral with more than 1.4 million views - was taken by another passenger sitting across the platform from her on a different train. It shows at least four people walk past the woman without so much as pausing. An MTA worker can be seen strolling by, but the agency said that the employee had already spoken to the woman and told her that workers would have the doors open soon. “While this is an unfortunate incident, the passenger was able to get out safely with assistance from our train operator,” said MTA spokeswoman Beth DeFalco. “Because the doors were ajar, the train was never in danger of moving.” Once she was freed, the woman declined medical assistance, according to officials. Watch the video above, and see this disturbing footage of a man attempting to steal a baby from a stroller at Dunkin' Donuts .

A disturbing Instagram video shows a woman with her head stuck in the closed doors of a New York City subway car, as passersby unconcernedly walk past her on the platform.

The unidentified woman was on the 4 train Tuesday around 12:45 p.m. as it arrived at the Woodlawn station in the Bronx, MTA officials said.

The woman apparently rushed for the closing doors after she realized it was the last stop, and got stuck.

The Instagram video - which has quickly gone viral with more than 1.4 million views - was taken by another passenger sitting across the platform from her on a different train.

It shows at least four people walk past the woman without so much as pausing.

An MTA worker can be seen strolling by, but the agency said that the employee had already spoken to the woman and told her that workers would have the doors open soon.

“While this is an unfortunate incident, the passenger was able to get out safely with assistance from our train operator,” said MTA spokeswoman Beth DeFalco. “Because the doors were ajar, the train was never in danger of moving.”

Once she was freed, the woman declined medical assistance, according to officials.

Watch the video above, and see this disturbing footage of a man attempting to steal a baby from a stroller at Dunkin' Donuts.

Man Tries to Grab Baby From Stroller at a Dunkin' Donuts

Nunes Steps Aside from House Russia Probe; Judge Napolitano Reacts

Harvard Students Insist Pres. Trump Is More Dangerous Than ISIS

Robert De Niro Says Trump 'Sullied and Debased the Presidency'