Carrie Fisher, Mark Hamill and Oprah named among this year's Disney Legends
Carrie Fisher, Mark Hamill and Oprah named among this year's Disney Legends
The force remains strong with the family. Disney on Thursday announced that the late Carrie Fisher (aka Princess Leia) and Mark Hamill (aka Luke Skywalker) will be among the nine new Disney Legends inducted at this year’s bi-annual D23 Expo. SEE ALSO: Carrie Fisher's memorial featured R2-D2 and James Blunt, of course Others honored this year include: Clyde “Gerry” Geronimi, Manual Gonzales, Wayne Jackson, Stan Lee, Garry Marshall, Julie Taymour, and Oprah Winfrey. Just Announced! Here are the 2017 Disney Legends Award Honorees: https://t.co/XUFRKNoybP  #D23Expo  pic.twitter.com/TWzXZclFhu — Disney D23 (@DisneyD23) April 6, 2017 D23, held in Anaheim, is a biennial celebration of all things Disney. The Disney Legends Award, which is celebrating its 30th year, was first given to Fred MacMurray in 1987. Including this year's group of honorees, there are now a total of 276 Disney Legends. “The Disney Legends Award is the highest honor our company can bestow on an individual, reserved for those few who have truly made an indelible mark on the history of The Walt Disney Company,” Disney Chairman and CEO Bob Iger said in a statement. “It’s a celebration of talent, a recognition of achievement, and an expression of gratitude to the men and women whose work has significantly contributed to Disney’s enduring reputation for creative excellence.”

The force remains strong with the Star Wars family.

Disney on Thursday announced that the late Carrie Fisher (aka Princess Leia) and Mark Hamill (aka Luke Skywalker) will be among the nine new Disney Legends inducted at this year’s bi-annual D23 Expo.

Others honored this year include: Clyde “Gerry” Geronimi, Manual Gonzales, Wayne Jackson, Stan Lee, Garry Marshall, Julie Taymour, and Oprah Winfrey.

D23, held in Anaheim, is a biennial celebration of all things Disney.

The Disney Legends Award, which is celebrating its 30th year, was first given to Fred MacMurray in 1987.

Including this year's group of honorees, there are now a total of 276 Disney Legends.

“The Disney Legends Award is the highest honor our company can bestow on an individual, reserved for those few who have truly made an indelible mark on the history of The Walt Disney Company,” Disney Chairman and CEO Bob Iger said in a statement. “It’s a celebration of talent, a recognition of achievement, and an expression of gratitude to the men and women whose work has significantly contributed to Disney’s enduring reputation for creative excellence.”