Paris police given powers to search Metro passengers' bags
Paris police allowed to search Metro users' bags after St Peterburg


Paris police have been given the authority to search the bags of Metro passengers they deem to be 'suspicious'.

Officers in the French capital typically have to provide a motive in order to carry out a search, but the new powers remove the need to do so.

The measure is temporary and must been renewed every 24 hours for as long as the police wish to use it.

Paris police have been given powers allowing them to search Metro passenger's bags without having to provide an official justification after the St Petersburg attack

In total 14 people died and around 50 were injured after a bomb detonated on the subway system in St Petersburg on Monday morning

Paris police chief Michel Cadot authorised bag checks after being ordered to step up security by the French government, The Local reports.

Officers in Paris have been on high alert since the St Petersburg bombing on Monday which killed 14 and wounded more than 50.

Around 140 extra officers were deployed around the city as interior minister Matthias Fekl warned there was a 'very high risk' of a terror attack.

Speaking after the Russia attack, Mr Fekl said: 'Following the events in the St. Petersburg metro, and as a precautionary measure, we have decided to redeploy security means in public transport across the Paris region.

'Amid an extremely high terrorism threat, the government continues to take measures to protect the French people.'

Akbarzhon Jalilov, 22, a native of Kyrgyzstan (right), was named as the perpetrator, with Islamic extremism likely the motivation for his attack

Akbarzhon Jalilov, 22, a native of Kyrgyzstan who held a Russian passport, used a backpack filled with explosives and nails in order to attack Russia's second city.

A second device was found at a nearby train station, but was defused before it could be detonated.

While no group has claimed responsibility for the attack, Kyrgyzstan has a history of radical Islamism, with around 500 people leaving the country to fight for ISIS.

Terror groups had also been threatening to strike Russia after Putin decided to intervene in the conflict in Syria.

ISIS terrorists killed 130 people in coordinated series of bomb and gun attacks in Paris back in November 2015, the majority of whom were watching a rock concert at the Bataclan theatre.