Japan's 50 Richest In 2017 Grow Wealthier From Telecom, Videogames And Technology
Japan's 50 Richest In 2017 Grow Wealthier From Telecom, Videogames And Technology
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kerry A. Dolan       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Founder & CEO of SoftBank Group, Masayoshi Son. He returns to the No. 1 spot on Forbes' list of Japan's 50 Richest. (Photo credit: LLUIS GENE/AFP/Getty Images) Economic growth in Japan may be tepid, but a buoyant Japanese stock market--a 13% rise in the Nikkei index over the 12 months through late March 2017--resulted in bigger fortunes for nearly three-quarters of those on our list of 50 Richest over the past year. Big upticks came from a mix of companies in telecom, technology and videogames. Telecom tycoon Masayoshi Son moves into the No. 1 spot from No. 2 last year and is the biggest gainer in dollar terms. His fortune rose $5.5 billion to $20.4 billion as investors bid up the price of his SoftBank stock following an early December meeting Son had with then U.S. president-elect Donald Trump. FORBES Staff See the full list of Japan's 50 Richest. The second-biggest gainer is up 51% to a $12.5 billion net worth. His Tokyo-listed sensors firm, Keyence, has capitalized on growing sales outside Japan, which now account for 50% of revenues, according to JP Morgan. Keyence customer BorgWarner, an autoparts maker, uses the company's autofocus camera to read bar codes; other products are used in food packaging. Keyence contracts out all its output to boost profits. The sole newcomer this year is a couple, who founded videogame firm Koei (now called Koei Tecmo Holdings) nearly four decades ago. Keiko chairs the company, and Yoichi is the CEO. Shares rose 22% over the past year as its game revenues grew. The company is known for its Samurai Warriors games.  is worth $800 million more from a nearly 30% jump in shares of Nidec, which makes motors for hard-disk drives and optical drives. Founder-chairman Nagamori aims to nearly double revenue to $18 billion by 2021, partly through acquisitions. Japan's Top 20 Richest Notable drop-offs include Akimitsu Sano, founder of recipe-sharing website Cookpad. Shares fell nearly 50% over the past year after a struggle with board members. Another drop-off: Ryoichi Jinnai, who has donated $400 million gained from consumer lender Promise to groups supporting agriculture on the northern island of Hokkaido. The list was compiled using information from the individuals, stock exchanges, analysts, private data bases, government agencies and other sources. Net worths were based on stock prices and exchange rates as of the close of markets on March 24. 2017. Private companies were valued by using financial ratios and other comparisons with similar publicly traded companies. Japan Pachinko Mogul Satomi Plays Korea Casino Long Shot Inside Uniqlo Billionaire Tadashi Yanai's Quest To Become The World's Biggest Retailer Japanese Billionaire Masayoshi Son's New Corporate Universe Japanese Billionaire Yusaku Maezawa On Why He's Buying Big-Name Art Follow me on Twitter at @KerryDolan Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Economic growth in Japan may be tepid, but a buoyant Japanese stock market--a 13% rise in the Nikkei index over the 12 months through late March 2017--resulted in bigger fortunes for nearly three-quarters of those on our list of 50 Richest over the past year. Big upticks came from a mix of companies in telecom, technology and videogames. In total, Japan's top 50 are worth $152 billion, up from $137 billion a year ago.

Telecom tycoon Masayoshi Son moves into the No. 1 spot from No. 2 last year and is the biggest gainer in dollar terms. His fortune rose $5.5 billion to $20.4 billion as investors bid up the price of his SoftBank stock following an early December meeting Son had with then U.S. president-elect Donald Trump.

FORBES Staff

The second-biggest gainer is Takemitsu Takizaki, up 51% to a $12.5 billion net worth. His Tokyo-listed sensors firm, Keyence, has capitalized on growing sales outside Japan, which now account for 50% of revenues, according to JP Morgan. Keyence customer BorgWarner, an autoparts maker, uses the company's autofocus camera to read bar codes; other products are used in food packaging. Keyence contracts out all its output to boost profits.

The sole newcomer this year is a couple, Yoichi & Keiko Erikawa, who founded videogame firm Koei (now called Koei Tecmo Holdings) nearly four decades ago. Keiko chairs the company, and Yoichi is the CEO. Shares rose 22% over the past year as its game revenues grew. The company is known for its Samurai Warriors games.

Shigenobu Nagamori is worth $800 million more from a nearly 30% jump in shares of Nidec, which makes motors for hard-disk drives and optical drives. Founder-chairman Nagamori aims to nearly double revenue to $18 billion by 2021, partly through acquisitions.

Notable drop-offs include Akimitsu Sano, founder of recipe-sharing website Cookpad. Shares fell nearly 50% over the past year after a struggle with board members. Another drop-off: Ryoichi Jinnai, who has donated $400 million gained from consumer lender Promise to groups supporting agriculture on the northern island of Hokkaido.

Methodology

The list was compiled using information from the individuals, stock exchanges, analysts, private data bases, government agencies and other sources. Net worths were based on stock prices and exchange rates as of the close of markets on March 24. 2017. Private companies were valued by using financial ratios and other comparisons with similar publicly traded companies.

Reported by James Simms, Chloe Sorvino, Ryan Salchert and Katie Taylor.

For more coverage from Japan's Richest 2017, see stories below:

Japan Pachinko Mogul Satomi Plays Korea Casino Long Shot

Inside Uniqlo Billionaire Tadashi Yanai's Quest To Become The World's Biggest Retailer

Japanese Billionaire Masayoshi Son's New Corporate Universe

Japanese Billionaire Yusaku Maezawa On Why He's Buying Big-Name Art

Follow me on Twitter at @KerryDolan