‘Godman’ Arrested For Sexually Assaulting and Threatening A Woman In Chennai
‘Godman’ Arrested For Sexually Assaulting and Threatening A Woman In Chennai
‘Godman’ Arrested For Sexually Assaulting and Threatening A Woman In Chennai It is just gut-wrenching how common it is for Godmen to sexually their trusting disciples. This time again, a self-styled godman Annadurai, known as Annamalai Siddhar, who runs the Aadisiva Brhamma Sivandiyargal Ashram, was arrested by the Gaduvancheri police, Chennai, for sexually assaulting a 24-year-old woman. The 59-year-old had been allegedly threatening her with dire consequences if she brought it to the notice of her family members. The woman had a severe migraine and went to the ashram in January on the advice of her grandmother who accompanied her. Sidhar spoke to them for a couple of minutes after which he asked her to come alone the next day. Sidhar, who kept her in the ashram for more than an hour, listened to her problem and then sexually assaulted her. "When the woman objected to this and warned him that she would expose his act, Sidhar told her that he would use his powers to make her son a paralytic," said an investigating officer. He also told her that he would hire men to kill her husband. The woman was intimidated by his threats and and kept the matter to herself. Her husband grew suspicious since she became withdrawn and showed signs of depression. Though he kept questioning her, she was worried that Sidhar would carry out his threats. Later, however, she was persuaded to reveal what happened to her. The woman's husband lodged a complaint with Guduvanchery police who arrested Sidhar and sealed his ashram.

It is just gut-wrenching how common it is for Godmen to sexually their trusting disciples. This time again, a self-styled godman Annadurai, known as Annamalai Siddhar, who runs the Aadisiva Brhamma Sivandiyargal Ashram, was arrested by the Gaduvancheri police, Chennai, for sexually assaulting a 24-year-old woman.

The 59-year-old had been allegedly threatening her with dire consequences if she brought it to the notice of her family members. The woman had a severe migraine and went to the ashram in January on the advice of her grandmother who accompanied her.

Sidhar spoke to them for a couple of minutes after which he asked her to come alone the next day. Sidhar, who kept her in the ashram for more than an hour, listened to her problem and then sexually assaulted her.

Picture for representation/BCCL

"When the woman objected to this and warned him that she would expose his act, Sidhar told her that he would use his powers to make her son a paralytic," said an investigating officer.

He also told her that he would hire men to kill her husband. The woman was intimidated by his threats and and kept the matter to herself.

Her husband grew suspicious since she became withdrawn and showed signs of depression. Though he kept questioning her, she was worried that Sidhar would carry out his threats.

Later, however, she was persuaded to reveal what happened to her.

The woman's husband lodged a complaint with Guduvanchery police who arrested Sidhar and sealed his ashram.

Don't Miss 1 K SHARES 65.2 K SHARES 42.2 K SHARES 26 K SHARES 33.7 K SHARES