15 Things That'll Make Your Home Smell So Much Cleaner
15 Things That'll Make Your Home Smell So Much Cleaner
It lasts for as long as two years. Reactivate the inner charcoal's air purifying abilities by placing the bag out in the sun for about an hour each month. "Alright...I admit my ride was a lil stank. Quite honestly, it had a somewhat terrible aroma. The combination of cigarette smoke, large dog, various critters that may frolic within when I accidentally leave the top down overnight, gardening expeditions that involve transporting flowers, shrubbery, sod or bags of manure also may have left a pungent olfactory residue. I refuse to accept that stuff won't fit in my car. Placed Moso under a seat while we were out of town for the weekend — HAPPILY returned to non-funky Fiat!!! And there are still dried clumps of what I insist is dirt in hard-to-vacuum spaces." — Jilly Get it from Amazon for $9.95 .                                   It doesn't take much of this stuff to eliminate the most awful of odors. "This product was recommended to me by a funeral director. He said he has been using it for years. I have to agree it is wonderful. Recently our daughter had a mouse die in her car. (She was away and the car sat in the summer heat in Florida for a week.) She was ready to sell the car...the smell just wouldn't go away. I told her about Ozium and she couldn't believe it! After one night the smell was gone! Another Ozium believer!" — jbf Get an 8-ounce bottle from Amazon for $10.89 . Also available as a gel .                                   "These bags are excellent tall white kitchen-size garbage bags. The ForceFlex really does help to avoid having the bag rip and spill trash everywhere. The Febreze scent also noticeably cut down on nasty odors emanating from our trash. We have a child that holds the bag only by the ties and he can drag it out to the larger outdoor trash receptacles without any anxiety or worrying about the bag tearing. These are excellent bags if you have children!" — Morgan Jackson Get a box of 68 from Amazon for $14.18 .                                   "I have a large trash can and cook a lot! The trash can is always open. But with the deodorizer I don't mind having it open, because it smells nice." — Andrika Get it from Amazon for $7.80 or The Grommet for $9.95 , and get a refill pack from Amazon for $8.23 .                                   Light up one of these soy candles when you start cooking fish and you won't hate yourself for the next 24 hours. "I was in a very small and crowded office. People would say it smelled like a gym locker in there. It was two men and three women. I bought this and put the gel in a formerly used air freshener container above each person's wall cabinet. Worked like a charm. People started coming into the office and saying how pleasant it smelled!" — Em in WA Get them from Amazon: the 63-ounce gel jar for $39.99 and the candle for $14.99 .                                   Yep, they're made with charcoal. And they can last as long as a year. "My running shoes were infecting everything in my suitcase when traveling. I began using these and within a week, my shoes were nearly odor-free. I use them in new shoes religiously and they never develop odor. I can also report better foot health as a result. If these don't work for you, I'd see a doctor!" — Amazon Customer Get a set of two from Amazon for $9.99 .                                   "Perhaps it's the cedar smell they leave with your shoes, the way they fill out the shoes so well, the novelty of the mechanics (like a little puppet foot)...I'm not sure why. Anyway, they fit my shoes great and I ended up buying two more sets. They aren't the cheapest thing out there, but I give them two big thumbs up!" — Amazon Customer Get them from Amazon for $25.49+ . Available in three sizes.                                   "Alright, this was bought as a joke originally, but damn this is worth it. I went from embarrassed to go at work to best digestive tract in the office. The leftover smell is a little like a fruity baby wipe, but that in preference over anything is a win. I'm buying again especially for vacations or car trips. Also fine for septic tanks!" — Brigid Washak Get them from Amazon: 4-ounce bottle of Poo-Pourri for $12.49 and 4-ounce bottle of Unicorn Gold for $14.99 .                                   "Basically, stainless steel will remove a number of bad smells from your hands when you rub in your hands under water. The only question is what shape bar you will choose and how much you're going to pay for it. I like this product because it's large enough to rub all over your hands with little effort, and is inexpensive yet sturdy. There are currently faddish stainless steel products that try to dupe you into thinking their particular product is a breakthrough. Rubbish. This one is inexpensive and works fine." — E. Campisi Get it from Amazon for $7.99 . Also available in fish .                                   "I purchased this when I found mold on several pairs of boots and shoes in my closet. I've had this in my closet for a little over a month now and it has collected over an inch of water in the bottom. I'm about to have someone come look at my closet to see what the deal is, but in the meantime, I've ordered another one of these to keep it dry in my closet." — S. Marston Get it from Amazon for $5.72 .                                   "This item works great. I like the feature of being able to run it continuously or intermittently. It was suggested I use 10 drops of oil so I used five drops and it was still way too strong for me, so I'm using two drops and it is about right; still does the whole house!" — D.H. Cesare Get it from Amazon for $19.95 .                                   "Easy to use and very cost-effective when calculating the dry cleaning bill together with the time of driving to and from the cleaners. They smell so fresh when you pull them from the dryer, and the stain remover included with the purchase has saved me a few times, as well!" — Amazon Customer Get two boxes of six cloths from Amazon for $38.99 .                                   "I have no scientific evidence that this product cleans and deodorizes garbage disposals but it seems to work and whenever I use it, the disposal seems to lose its funkiness. The best part might be the performance this product gives...it churns and foams and boils up and out of the disposal and into the sink and then, presumably when the cleaning is complete, the foam retracts into the disposal and then disappears." — Eastern Shore Get a two-pack from Amazon for $10.25 .                                   "I kept this in my room in Afghanistan. Even with multiple dudes in the room, stinky uniforms and boots, it did a good job of improving the scent in the room. It lasted longer than the package said it would, so that was a bonus. Even after it dried up, I could put a little water into it and it would keep doing its thing." — Mike Get it from Amazon for $3+ . Available in seven scents.                                   Check out some of the many ~official~ uses for the stuff on Arm & Hammer here . Get a 13.5-pound bag from Amazon for $17.73 .

It lasts for as long as two years. Reactivate the inner charcoal's air purifying abilities by placing the bag out in the sun for about an hour each month.

Promising review: "Alright...I admit my ride was a lil stank. Quite honestly, it had a somewhat terrible aroma. The combination of cigarette smoke, large dog, various critters that may frolic within when I accidentally leave the top down overnight, gardening expeditions that involve transporting flowers, shrubbery, sod or bags of manure also may have left a pungent olfactory residue. I refuse to accept that stuff won't fit in my car. Placed Moso under a seat while we were out of town for the weekend — HAPPILY returned to non-funky Fiat!!! And there are still dried clumps of what I insist is dirt in hard-to-vacuum spaces." —Jilly

Get it from Amazon for $9.95.