7 Other Times French Montana Put His Foot In His Mouth
7 Other Times French Montana Put His Foot In His Mouth
Late Wednesday night, French Montana responded to a bit of gentle online teasing with as much racially and sexually-charged language as you could fit in 140 characters . The rapper called his antagonist... well, you should see it for yourself. U musty crusty dusty rusty ass hoe With them nappy ass poetic justice braids take your cum drinking Dick banging ass somewhere n be  https://t.co/ What followed was entirely predictable: people were (rightfully) outraged, French initially defended himself with specious arguments about his family history, and then he apologized, saying on the that "I ain't know 'nappy' was a racist word." If you've followed French Montana's career up to this point, you know there were plenty of other times he said something he probably shouldn't have. Below, our list of the (other) most notable times French put his foot in his mouth. "I think everybody should say 'nigga.'" During an interview on Vlad TV, French was asked his thoughts on the n-word. The Moroccan rapper replied, "I think everybody should say 'nigga.' There's a lot of bitch-ass niggas, bitch-ass bitches... people want to get too mathematical with shit." The only reasonable response? "I don't even know how to use an email." During a sit-down with Angie Martinez , French revealed a very, um, interesting reason why he chose not to sign with Kanye West. "Kanye doesn’t have a phone. If you need to get in contact with Kanye, you have to email him," he said. "You can’t tell me how to do that. I don’t know how to use an email, so I guess me and you is never gonna talk, and I’ma put my career in your hands?" "All the lyrical rappers is broke." While talking to Angie again two years later (you'd think everyone involved would have learned their lesson), French let fly another gem. "All the lyrical rappers is broke. Straight up." - with :: # Tell that to King Kendrick—that is, Cash King Kendrick , who took in $18.5 million last year. "I wish Martin could see this right now. He would tear her ass up." French posted a photo on Instagram of actress Tichina Arnold, who played Pam on He captioned it with the line you see above. Arnold was not amused, tearing into him with a long response. French was chastened in response, saying, "I am not disrespecting you. Stay blessed." "The elephant's living better than a lot of people." In 2016, French had a pretty epic birthday celebration that culminated with a real live elephant in his backyard. After the rapper released footage of the animal being made to do tricks, people got upset. asked French about it while he was leaving a nightclub, and he responded by saying, "The elephant's living better than a lot of people," as he rolled his window up and drove away. "A green card don't make you a citizen?" This one's close to home. In the middle of an interview with Complex for a 2016 story , French got asked a fairly innocuous question about whether he was going to vote in the upcoming presidential election. Here's the exchange that followed: I think I’ma vote. [interjecting]: Huh? Yeah I can, I’m a citizen. A green card don't make you a citizen? The 10 Snipe Commandments Yet again, French's birthday got him in trouble. In 2016, Montana revealed to the world that he had gotten a gift from Drake : a framed version of their 10 Snipe Commandments—"rules" they'd developed for dealing with women. Yes, it's real. He put it on Instagram, so that the whole world could see important (and strangely specific) laws like "Thou shall never tell a ting about another man’s splash in order to execute his own splash" and "Thou shall only splash unprotected if the ting a must splash or you are too fry or you trust the vibe or you plan to keep the vibe for a minimum of 6 months with 4 interactions within the allotted time period."

Late Wednesday night, French Montana responded to a bit of gentle online teasing with as much racially and sexually-charged language as you could fit in 140 characters. The rapper called his antagonist... well, you should see it for yourself.

U musty crusty dusty rusty ass hoe

With them nappy ass poetic justice braids take your cum drinking Dick banging ass somewhere n be humble🙏 https://t.co/yBHeZCKDCz — French Montana ( @FrencHMonTanA ) April 6, 2017

What followed was entirely predictable: people were (rightfully) outraged, French initially defended himself with specious arguments about his family history, and then he apologized, saying on the Breakfast Club that "I ain't know 'nappy' was a racist word."

If you've followed French Montana's career up to this point, you know there were plenty of other times he said something he probably shouldn't have. Below, our list of the (other) most notable times French put his foot in his mouth.

"I think everybody should say 'nigga.'"

During an interview on Vlad TV, French was asked his thoughts on the n-word. The Moroccan rapper replied, "I think everybody should say 'nigga.' There's a lot of bitch-ass niggas, bitch-ass bitches... people want to get too mathematical with shit."

The only reasonable response?

"I don't even know how to use an email."

During a sit-down with Angie Martinez, French revealed a very, um, interesting reason why he chose not to sign with Kanye West.

"Kanye doesn’t have a phone. If you need to get in contact with Kanye, you have to email him," he said. "You can’t tell me how to do that. I don’t know how to use an email, so I guess me and you is never gonna talk, and I’ma put my career in your hands?"

"All the lyrical rappers is broke."

While talking to Angie again two years later (you'd think everyone involved would have learned their lesson), French let fly another gem.

Tell that to King Kendrick—that is, Forbes Cash King Kendrick, who took in $18.5 million last year.

Image via Giphy

"I wish Martin could see this right now. He would tear her ass up."

French posted a photo on Instagram of actress Tichina Arnold, who played Pam on Martin. He captioned it with the line you see above. Arnold was not amused, tearing into him with a long response. French was chastened in response, saying, "I am not disrespecting you. Stay blessed."

"The elephant's living better than a lot of people."

In 2016, French had a pretty epic birthday celebration that culminated with a real live elephant in his backyard. After the rapper released footage of the animal being made to do tricks, people got upset. TMZ asked French about it while he was leaving a nightclub, and he responded by saying, "The elephant's living better than a lot of people," as he rolled his window up and drove away.

"A green card don't make you a citizen?"

This one's close to home. In the middle of an interview with Complex for a 2016 story, French got asked a fairly innocuous question about whether he was going to vote in the upcoming presidential election. Here's the exchange that followed:

I think I’ma vote. French's publicist [interjecting]: He can’t vote. Huh? French's publicist: You’re not a citizen, you can’t vote. Yeah I can, I’m a citizen. French's publicist: You’re a citizen now? A green card don't make you a citizen? French's publicist: No. He can’t vote so we’ll skip that question.

Image via Giphy

The 10 Snipe Commandments

Yet again, French's birthday got him in trouble. In 2016, Montana revealed to the world that he had gotten a gift from Drake: a framed version of their 10 Snipe Commandments—"rules" they'd developed for dealing with women. Yes, it's real. He put it on Instagram, so that the whole world could see important (and strangely specific) laws like "Thou shall never tell a ting about another man’s splash in order to execute his own splash" and "Thou shall only splash unprotected if the ting a must splash or you are too fry or you trust the vibe or you plan to keep the vibe for a minimum of 6 months with 4 interactions within the allotted time period."