Getting Around: How Urban Transportation And Planning Unlock The Future Of Accessibility
Getting Around: How Urban Transportation And Planning Unlock The Future Of Accessibility
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Energy Innovation: Policy and Technology       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The longest traffic jam in recorded history, so far as I can discover, was a 61-mile clog in Beijing, China that took 11 days to unravel in 2010 – and this was when only one in 20 Chinese had a car! Other cities around the world have succumbed to a similar fate: Daily traffic jams in Moscow, Jakarta, and Istanbul have become axiomatic conditions of everyday transportation. People drive in a traffic jam onto the N90 highway between Albertville and Moutiers, in the Tarentaise valley, on February 18, 2017. / AFP / JEAN-PIERRE CLATOT (Photo credit should read JEAN-PIERRE CLATOT/AFP/Getty Images) The United States is hardly exempt. Last year’s Thanksgiving holiday traffic in Los Angeles was so bad it was dubbed “ the freeway version of the mannequin challenge ”, coming after the region ranked most-congested in America with an average of 104 hours in congestion during 2016. And in Washington, D.C., commuters spend more than 60 hours a year in traffic, costing the region’s economy nearly $3 billion. This is an enormous waste of drivers’ time and money: One 2015 study showed travel delays due to traffic congestion expended more than three billion gallons of fuel and kept drivers in their cars nearly seven billion extra hours, costing $160 billion nationally. Cities also lose out on billions in economic productivity when drivers sit on asphalt rather than in their offices. And let’s not forget congestion’s external costs: Idle cars on highways spew out carbon dioxide and other emissions, contributing to local air pollution and global climate change. So what’s to be done?  The beginnings of wisdom come from a simple conviction: Cities should be designed for people, not cars.  This sounds obvious in theory, but what does it mean in practice?  It means citizens should have rich options for their needs, with or without cars.  Most people think about as the goal, but the truth is we drive in order to access amenities—work, school, a restaurant, or a park, say. Urban planners can ensure accessibility through mixed-use development, or by connecting neighborhoods through a rich provision of non-motorized mobility options, like bike paths or high-quality public transportation.  If cities are attentive to non-car alternatives, they prosper in a remarkable way: Incorporating public transit systems, bike and walking paths, and mixed-use zoning into neighborhoods helps keep people “connected” and does quite a bit of good for local economic vitality. Studies from around the world show that “accessible” residential developments—residences close to public transit, bike paths, parks, and stores—command double-digit price premiums, and these numbers can be even higher for commercial space. These models of smart growth cities cut emissions as people ditch cars for walkable, mixed-use, neighborhoods. It turns out that people actually like interesting neighborhoods, taking a walk, or jumping on clean, quick, reliable transit. Who knew? Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

The longest traffic jam in recorded history, so far as I can discover, was a 61-mile clog in Beijing, China that took 11 days to unravel in 2010 – and this was when only one in 20 Chinese had a car! Other cities around the world have succumbed to a similar fate: Daily traffic jams in Moscow, Jakarta, and Istanbul have become axiomatic conditions of everyday transportation.

The United States is hardly exempt. Last year’s Thanksgiving holiday traffic in Los Angeles was so bad it was dubbed “the freeway version of the mannequin challenge”, coming after the region ranked most-congested in America with an average of 104 hours in congestion during 2016. And in Washington, D.C., commuters spend more than 60 hours a year in traffic, costing the region’s economy nearly $3 billion.

The Costs Of Traffic Congestion

This is an enormous waste of drivers’ time and money: One 2015 study showed travel delays due to traffic congestion expended more than three billion gallons of fuel and kept drivers in their cars nearly seven billion extra hours, costing $160 billion nationally. Cities also lose out on billions in economic productivity when drivers sit on asphalt rather than in their offices.

And let’s not forget congestion’s external costs: Idle cars on highways spew out carbon dioxide and other emissions, contributing to local air pollution and global climate change.

So what’s to be done? The beginnings of wisdom come from a simple conviction: Cities should be designed for people, not cars. This sounds obvious in theory, but what does it mean in practice? It means citizens should have rich options for their access needs, with or without cars. Most people think about mobility as the goal, but the truth is we drive in order to access amenities—work, school, a restaurant, or a park, say.

Building Cities For People

Urban planners can ensure accessibility through mixed-use development, or by connecting neighborhoods through a rich provision of non-motorized mobility options, like bike paths or high-quality public transportation. If cities are attentive to non-car alternatives, they prosper in a remarkable way: Incorporating public transit systems, bike and walking paths, and mixed-use zoning into neighborhoods helps keep people “connected” and does quite a bit of good for local economic vitality.

Studies from around the world show that “accessible” residential developments—residences close to public transit, bike paths, parks, and stores—command double-digit price premiums, and these numbers can be even higher for commercial space. These models of smart growth cities cut emissions as people ditch cars for walkable, mixed-use, neighborhoods. It turns out that people actually like interesting neighborhoods, taking a walk, or jumping on clean, quick, reliable transit. Who knew?