Shia LaBeouf Has Complete Meltdown at Bowling Alley, Calls Bartender a 'F**king Racist!'
Shia LaBeouf Has Complete Meltdown at Bowling Alley, Calls Bartender a 'F**king Racist!'
On Wednesday night, Shia LaBeouf went totally ballistic, loudly called a bartender a "fucking racist," and got his ass booted out of an L.A. bowling alley in the process. A witness who spoke to TMZ told the outlet that the star had been there pounding brews for three hours. The actor reportedly got belligerent in an adjoining deli, and then got into a verbal altercation with staff after they asked him to leave. "You fucking racist bitch. Don't talk to me!" he can be heard screaming in the video. "You fucked up!" He also got mad because they refused to serve him French fries, which is apparently the bulk of the clip above. "I'm asking you about French fries and you want to hit me in the head with a Grey Goose bottle?" he asked, very confusingly. The person that he referred to as a "racist" was a bartender, though it's not clear why he earned the epithet. After creating quite the scene, LaBeouf later returned when he realized he was still wearing bowling shoes. Very dignified. The whole thing is definitely a bit of a head scratcher. Maybe he was drunk. Maybe it was performance art. Or, then

On Wednesday night, Shia LaBeouf went totally ballistic, loudly called a bartender a "fucking racist," and got his ass booted out of an L.A. bowling alley in the process. A witness who spoke to TMZ told the outlet that the Transformers star had been there pounding brews for three hours.

The actor reportedly got belligerent in an adjoining deli, and then got into a verbal altercation with staff after they asked him to leave. "You fucking racist bitch. Don't talk to me!" he can be heard screaming in the video. "You fucked up!"

He also got mad because they refused to serve him French fries, which is apparently the bulk of the clip above. "I'm asking you about French fries and you want to hit me in the head with a Grey Goose bottle?" he asked, very confusingly.

The person that he referred to as a "racist" was a bartender, though it's not clear why he earned the epithet. After creating quite the scene, LaBeouf later returned when he realized he was still wearing bowling shoes. Very dignified.

The whole thing is definitely a bit of a head scratcher. Maybe he was drunk. Maybe it was performance art. Or, then again, maybe it was just stress over this. Your guess is as good as ours.