Missing Tennessee teen's father seeks to depose witnesses in hopes of finding daughter
Missing teen's father seeks to depose witnesses in hopes of finding daughter
Shares               The father of a Tennessee teenager who was allegedly kidnapped by her former teacher filed a petition in court today, asking to depose witnesses who may know more about their purported relationship. Authorities believe 15-year-old Elizabeth Thomas may have been abducted by Tad Cummins , 50, who is wanted on allegations of aggravated kidnapping and sexual contact with a minor. The court filing is asking for witnesses who may have any information that could aid authorities in their search for Elizabeth to be deposed. "The family cannot simply wait for information to trickle in," Jason Whatley, the attorney representing Anthony Thomas, Elizabeth's father, told ABC News today. "This petition will hopefully bring a fresh light into the disappearance of Elizabeth." The legal move comes more than three weeks after Elizabeth was reported missing on March 13. The only confirmed sighting of the pair was at a Walmart in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, two days after the pair disappeared. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said that Cummins, who was fired one day after the alleged kidnapping, "may have been abusing his role as a teacher to groom [the teen] ... in an effort to lure and potentially sexually exploit her." One of Elizabeth's schoolmates reported seeing her and Cummins kiss in his classroom on Jan. 23, according to a school district investigative report, but both denied the claim. A school report from January reads that neither one "admitted to behaving inappropriately towards the other." Whatley told ABC News that the family believes there are classmates, friends and teachers who may know more information that could help in the search for Elizabeth, but added that he feels some people may be intimidated or scared to talk to authorities.     Whatley added in a statement that the "process of this investigation has been frustrating" for the Thomas family. "Perhaps the most concerning element has been the hesitancy of some persons to fully cooperate in sharing information that they know," Whatley said. "The purpose of our petition as filed today will hopefully put an end to that hesitancy displayed by some and will help us, as the family, to methodically confirm facts that have been at times unclear," he continued. "We have brought this petition for no purpose except to provide a vehicle for gathering information." Authorities are asking that anyone with information call 1-800-TBI-FIND and that anyone who sees a car with Tennessee license plate number 976-ZPT call 911. Shares                  Missing teen's father seeks to depose witnesses in hopes of finding daughter   ANALYSIS: 5 political takeaways after the Syria strike   Mandated police reform could make Baltimore 'less safe,' AG says   Manhunt is underway for gun-store robbery suspect who sent manifesto to Trump   California governor declares historic drought over _ for now   NCIS: 27 suspected of 'criminal activity' in nude photos of female Marines   Myanmar ferry capsizes; 20 dead, over a dozen missing   Fast train hits Polish truck; 19 hospitalized, 7 seriously   Senate confirms Neil Gorsuch to Supreme Court   Hawaiian officials fear infections of rare parasitic worm will increase   Christie teams up with NHL's Devils against opioid addiction   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Seattle mayor denies sex abuse claims - 'simply not true'   4 dead after plane crashes while approaching Oregon airport   Police respond to gun threat at high school in west Indiana   Schwarzenegger says Kasich should run for president in 2020   Deliberations begin in ex-NFL star's double-murder trial   Delta cancels flights for third day after storm hits Atlanta   ANALYSIS: Retail takes a hit in disappointing jobs report   US employers add just 98K jobs, as rate falls to 4.5 pct.   Trump's pick to lead border security wins support from Bush- and Obama-era officials   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt   Alabama governor says he won't resign despite scandal   MTV gets rid of gender-specific categories for awards   'Friends' star David Schwimmer and his wife are taking 'time apart'   'The Fifth Trimester’ author warns new moms about work-life struggles

The father of a Tennessee teenager who was allegedly kidnapped by her former teacher filed a petition in court today, asking to depose witnesses who may know more about their purported relationship.

Authorities believe 15-year-old Elizabeth Thomas may have been abducted by Tad Cummins, 50, who is wanted on allegations of aggravated kidnapping and sexual contact with a minor.

The court filing is asking for witnesses who may have any information that could aid authorities in their search for Elizabeth to be deposed.

"The family cannot simply wait for information to trickle in," Jason Whatley, the attorney representing Anthony Thomas, Elizabeth's father, told ABC News today. "This petition will hopefully bring a fresh light into the disappearance of Elizabeth."

The legal move comes more than three weeks after Elizabeth was reported missing on March 13.

The only confirmed sighting of the pair was at a Walmart in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, two days after the pair disappeared. The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said that Cummins, who was fired one day after the alleged kidnapping, "may have been abusing his role as a teacher to groom [the teen] ... in an effort to lure and potentially sexually exploit her."

One of Elizabeth's schoolmates reported seeing her and Cummins kiss in his classroom on Jan. 23, according to a school district investigative report, but both denied the claim. A school report from January reads that neither one "admitted to behaving inappropriately towards the other."

Whatley told ABC News that the family believes there are classmates, friends and teachers who may know more information that could help in the search for Elizabeth, but added that he feels some people may be intimidated or scared to talk to authorities.

Whatley added in a statement that the "process of this investigation has been frustrating" for the Thomas family.

"Perhaps the most concerning element has been the hesitancy of some persons to fully cooperate in sharing information that they know," Whatley said.

"The purpose of our petition as filed today will hopefully put an end to that hesitancy displayed by some and will help us, as the family, to methodically confirm facts that have been at times unclear," he continued. "We have brought this petition for no purpose except to provide a vehicle for gathering information."

Authorities are asking that anyone with information call 1-800-TBI-FIND and that anyone who sees a car with Tennessee license plate number 976-ZPT call 911.