Dead gator in Florida dorm room means warning for students
Dead gator in Florida dorm room means warning for students
Shares                Wildlife officials say they've issued warnings to three Florida Gulf Coast University students who took a dead alligator to a dorm room and posted pictures of it on social media. The News-Press (https://goo.gl/Hnp4fE) reports that the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission sent an officer to the college after getting a call from school police about the alligator. School spokesman Brian Norris says the students claimed to have found the reptile dead on the side of the road. Wildlife officers took possession of the carcass and confirmed it had been road kill. The school gave the three students warnings for possession of an alligator without proper permits. ——— Information from: The (Fort Myers, Fla.) News-Press, http://www.news-press.com  Shares                  Dead gator in Florida dorm room means warning for students   ANALYSIS: 5 political takeaways after the Syria strike   Mandated police reform could make Baltimore 'less safe,' AG says   Manhunt is underway for gun-store robbery suspect who sent manifesto to Trump   California governor declares historic drought over _ for now   NCIS: 27 suspected of 'criminal activity' in nude photos of female Marines   Myanmar ferry capsizes; 20 dead, over a dozen missing   Fast train hits Polish truck; 19 hospitalized, 7 seriously   Senate confirms Neil Gorsuch to Supreme Court   Hawaiian officials fear infections of rare parasitic worm will increase   Christie teams up with NHL's Devils against opioid addiction   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Seattle mayor denies sex abuse claims - 'simply not true'   4 dead after plane crashes while approaching Oregon airport   Police respond to gun threat at high school in west Indiana   Schwarzenegger says Kasich should run for president in 2020   Deliberations begin in ex-NFL star's double-murder trial   Delta cancels flights for third day after storm hits Atlanta   ANALYSIS: Retail takes a hit in disappointing jobs report   US employers add just 98K jobs, as rate falls to 4.5 pct.   Trump's pick to lead border security wins support from Bush- and Obama-era officials   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt   Alabama governor says he won't resign despite scandal   MTV gets rid of gender-specific categories for awards   'Friends' star David Schwimmer and his wife are taking 'time apart'   'The Fifth Trimester’ author warns new moms about work-life struggles

Wildlife officials say they've issued warnings to three Florida Gulf Coast University students who took a dead alligator to a dorm room and posted pictures of it on social media.

The News-Press (https://goo.gl/Hnp4fE) reports that the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission sent an officer to the college after getting a call from school police about the alligator.

School spokesman Brian Norris says the students claimed to have found the reptile dead on the side of the road. Wildlife officers took possession of the carcass and confirmed it had been road kill.

The school gave the three students warnings for possession of an alligator without proper permits.

———

Information from: The (Fort Myers, Fla.) News-Press, http://www.news-press.com