Nicola Sturgeon says Margaret Thatcher inspired her Scottish nationalism
Nicola Sturgeon says Margaret Thatcher inspired her Scottish nationalism
icola Sturgeon has said that her desire for Scottish independence was inspired by Margaret Thatcher – because Thatcher’s controversial policies were forced on a population that had not voted for her. Ms Sturgeon, speaking on Thursday in New York, during her week-long tour of the United States , described herself as a “proud Scot” who had rejected the United Kingdom from an early age. “When I was growing up Margaret Thatcher was prime minister and the policies she was implementing were doing real damage to the kind of communities I was growing up in,” she said. “But very, very few people in Scotland voted for Margaret Thatcher. “It just seemed to me wrong that this prime minister that Scotland didn’t vote for was able to implement policies that were leading to high unemployment, devastating communities. “Margaret Thatcher once famously said there was no thing about society – well, I do believe in society. I believe in a strong, cohesive society. “So for me independence is not an end in itself – it’s how we equip our country.” sked about her row with Theresa May, the prime minister, over the holding of a second independence referendum, Ms Sturgeon said she believed Mrs May was scared of losing. “I think the fact that she is trying to stand in the way of a democratic referendum, where Scotland, in light of Brexit, can choose the path we take, probably suggests she is a bit worried of not winning that argument,” she said. he told the crowd at the Women in the World festival that she remained hopeful that she could “find common ground” with Mrs May. “We both like shoes, which is a good starting point,” she joked. “I hope we can build a good working relationship – but it takes two .”

Nicola Sturgeon has said that her desire for Scottish independence was inspired by Margaret Thatcher – because Thatcher’s controversial policies were forced on a population that had not voted for her.

Ms Sturgeon, speaking on Thursday in New York, during her week-long tour of the United States, described herself as a “proud Scot” who had rejected the United Kingdom from an early age.

“When I was growing up Margaret Thatcher was prime minister and the policies she was implementing were doing real damage to the kind of communities I was growing up in,” she said.