NY, NJ bombing suspect wants federal trial moved to Vermont
NY, NJ bombing suspect wants trial moved to Vermont
Shares               The man accused of planting bombs in New Jersey and in New York City's Chelsea neighborhood wants his federal trial moved to Vermont, according to documents filed Wednesday. The attorneys for Ahmad Rahimi, who has been in custody since his arrest in September, said the venue must be changed from the Southern District of New York to Vermont or another district the court decides is appropriate because of a “reasonable likelihood” that "prejudicial pretrial publicity" in New York "will prevent a fair trial." The attorneys named Washington, D.C., and Vermont as alternatives to New York, where the defense said media coverage has been “blatantly prejudicial.” The lawyers said, according to expert analysis, there has been twice as much media coverage of the case in New York than in Washington, D.C., and nearly five times as much coverage as in Vermont.       Rahimi is suspected of leaving explosive devices in New Jersey and in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood the weekend of Sept. 17. No one was injured in New Jersey, but the Manhattan blast went off on a busy street on a Saturday night and sent debris flying through the air and pedestrians running down the street, leaving at least 31 people injured. According to authorities, Rahimi then engaged cops in a shootout on Sept. 19 as he was captured in Linden, New Jersey.   Rahimi, who has pleaded not guilty to using weapons of mass destruction, is scheduled to stand trial around the one-year anniversary of the Manhattan blast. He is jailed in Manhattan. Federal prosecutors have not yet responded to the defense's motion. Shares                  NY, NJ bombing suspect wants trial moved to Vermont   ANALYSIS: 5 political takeaways after the Syria strike   Mandated police reform could make Baltimore 'less safe,' AG says   Manhunt is underway for gun-store robbery suspect who sent manifesto to Trump   California governor declares historic drought over _ for now   NCIS: 27 suspected of 'criminal activity' in nude photos of female Marines   Myanmar ferry capsizes; 20 dead, over a dozen missing   Fast train hits Polish truck; 19 hospitalized, 7 seriously   Senate confirms Neil Gorsuch to Supreme Court   Hawaiian officials fear infections of rare parasitic worm will increase   Christie teams up with NHL's Devils against opioid addiction   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Seattle mayor denies sex abuse claims - 'simply not true'   4 dead after plane crashes while approaching Oregon airport   Police respond to gun threat at high school in west Indiana   Schwarzenegger says Kasich should run for president in 2020   Deliberations begin in ex-NFL star's double-murder trial   Delta cancels flights for third day after storm hits Atlanta   ANALYSIS: Retail takes a hit in disappointing jobs report   US employers add just 98K jobs, as rate falls to 4.5 pct.   Trump's pick to lead border security wins support from Bush- and Obama-era officials   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt   Alabama governor says he won't resign despite scandal   MTV gets rid of gender-specific categories for awards   'Friends' star David Schwimmer and his wife are taking 'time apart'   'The Fifth Trimester’ author warns new moms about work-life struggles

The man accused of planting bombs in New Jersey and in New York City's Chelsea neighborhood wants his federal trial moved to Vermont, according to documents filed Wednesday.

The attorneys for Ahmad Rahimi, who has been in custody since his arrest in September, said the venue must be changed from the Southern District of New York to Vermont or another district the court decides is appropriate because of a “reasonable likelihood” that "prejudicial pretrial publicity" in New York "will prevent a fair trial."

The attorneys named Washington, D.C., and Vermont as alternatives to New York, where the defense said media coverage has been “blatantly prejudicial.”

The lawyers said, according to expert analysis, there has been twice as much media coverage of the case in New York than in Washington, D.C., and nearly five times as much coverage as in Vermont.

Rahimi is suspected of leaving explosive devices in New Jersey and in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood the weekend of Sept. 17. No one was injured in New Jersey, but the Manhattan blast went off on a busy street on a Saturday night and sent debris flying through the air and pedestrians running down the street, leaving at least 31 people injured. According to authorities, Rahimi then engaged cops in a shootout on Sept. 19 as he was captured in Linden, New Jersey.

Craig Ruttle/AP Photo

Rahimi, who has pleaded not guilty to using weapons of mass destruction, is scheduled to stand trial around the one-year anniversary of the Manhattan blast. He is jailed in Manhattan.

Federal prosecutors have not yet responded to the defense's motion.