HarperCollins India Is Giving Paid 'Pawternity Leave' To Staff When They Get A Pet, How Adorable Is That!
Harper Collins India Is Giving Paid 'Pawternity Leave' To Employees Adopting Pets!
HarperCollins India Is Giving Paid 'Pawternity Leave' To Staff When They Get A Pet, How Adorable Is That! That's right, "paw-ternity" leaves is now a thing! And Harper Collins India is giving its employees paid time to take care of their fuzziest family members. Adopting a pet can be a daunting task and just like babies, newborn pooches need a lot of care, they need to be fed on time and just cannot be left alone. The company will be giving it's employees paid leave of five working days to allow them train and take care of their 'furry babies'. According to a HuffPost report, designated area has been set up for the animals at the company’s Noida office. “At HarperCollins, we want the very best of work-life balance for our colleagues, and that includes being mindful of their family needs,” HCI Chief Executive Ananth Padmanabhan told HuffPost India. “Pet children need as much attention [as human children], if not more. We don’t want colleagues to worry about the number of leaves they have before deciding to start a family.” he added

That's right, "paw-ternity" leaves is now a thing! And Harper Collins India is giving its employees paid time to take care of their fuzziest family members.

Reuters

Adopting a pet can be a daunting task and just like babies, newborn pooches need a lot of care, they need to be fed on time and just cannot be left alone.

Harper Collins Publishers India have acknowledged this fact and will be granting "pawternity leave" to employees who are adopting a pet.

The company will be giving it's employees paid leave of five working days to allow them train and take care of their 'furry babies'.

Facebook/Andre Hermanto

But that's not all, the company is being more than just generous by allowing the staff to bring their pets to work!

According to a HuffPost report, designated area has been set up for the animals at the company’s Noida office.

“At HarperCollins, we want the very best of work-life balance for our colleagues, and that includes being mindful of their family needs,” HCI Chief Executive Ananth Padmanabhan told HuffPost India.

“Pet children need as much attention [as human children], if not more. We don’t want colleagues to worry about the number of leaves they have before deciding to start a family.” he added

Reuters

Don't Miss 892 SHARES 62 K SHARES 42.1 K SHARES 25.7 K SHARES 33.7 K SHARES

The 'Pawternity Leave' policy is not a new concept. In the UK there are three companies called, Mars Petcare, BitSol Solutions and BrewDog, offering employees paid time off to settle in with their new puppies.

The concept is still picking up in India and at Harper Collins, the initiative is aimed at improving work-life balance.

“We are always thinking of ways to make HarperCollins the best place to work for, in every respect. In fact, in the UK, we just won an award for diversity in the work place,” said HR chief at HCI.