8 Celebrities Who Spoke About Coping Up With Depression And Gave Us An Important Message
8 Celebrities Who Spoke About Coping Up With Depression And Gave Us An Important Message
8 Celebrities Who Spoke About Coping Up With Depression And Gave Us An Important Message This one line could have saved several lives, had this been spoken to them at the right time. Suicidal thoughts, depression, and anxiety are three feelings that indicate your mental health. While most of us have had one of these phases at some point in our lives, it's high time we understand that it's really important to address and work towards getting it checked and cured. The recent student suicide in Bombay has again left us wondering that there is something terribly wrong with us and how we take our mental health lightly. Instead of connecting the dots, we think of ending our lives and taking that drastic step. Come on! All of us have gone through similar phases. Bollywood celebrities have time and again spoken about their depression and how they battled it. From Deepika Padukone to Honey Singh, these Bollywood celebrities have been brave enough to talk about their lowest phases and in case you missed it, here are 8 celebrities who gave us some really important messages by talking about their depression. 1. Honey Singh 2. Anushka Sharma 3. Randeep Hooda 4. Dwayne Johnson

"You are not alone."

This one line could have saved several lives, had this been spoken to them at the right time. Suicidal thoughts, depression, and anxiety are three feelings that indicate your mental health. While most of us have had one of these phases at some point in our lives, it's high time we understand that it's really important to address and work towards getting it checked and cured.

The recent student suicide in Bombay has again left us wondering that there is something terribly wrong with us and how we take our mental health lightly. Instead of connecting the dots, we think of ending our lives and taking that drastic step. Come on! All of us have gone through similar phases.

Vogue

Bollywood celebrities have time and again spoken about their depression and how they battled it. From Deepika Padukone to Honey Singh, these Bollywood celebrities have been brave enough to talk about their lowest phases and in case you missed it, here are 8 celebrities who gave us some really important messages by talking about their depression.

1. Honey Singh

Talking about his depression and bi-polar disorder, Honey Singh said, "It was scary. One year had passed and I wasn't responding to medicines, until a fourth doctor from Delhi treated me. At one point, I thought I would live in this darkness forever. I had cut myself off from everyone. I didn't come out of my room, forget stepping out of the house. I had a beard and I didn't get a haircut for months. For someone who has performed in front of a crowd of 20,000, I was scared of facing 4-5 people. That's what bipolar disorder does to you."

2. Anushka Sharma

In January 2015, Anushka Sharma spoke about anxiety and depression. She took to social media platforms to talk about it. She said,"I have anxiety. And I'm treating my anxiety. I'm on medication for my anxiety. Why am I saying this? Because it’s a completely normal thing. It's a biological problem. In my family there have been cases of depression. More and more people should talk openly about it. There is nothing shameful about it or something to hide. If you had a constant stomach pain, wouldn’t you go to the doctor? It’s that simple. I want to make this my mission, to take any shame out of this, to educate people about this."

3. Randeep Hooda

In May 2016, Bollywood actor Randeep Hooda opened up about his depressing phase. He said, "There was a big hangover after 'Sarbjit' because of the involvement that was required in the film. It all lingers on. It has happened before as well. After ‘Highway’, I was depressed for a long time. I had to tell myself that I am not a petty taxi driver and that is not my life. Nobody loves me the way other characters loved mine in the film. You have to go through such things at times."

4. Dwayne Johnson

Don't Miss 11.7 K SHARES 251 SHARES 41.4 K SHARES 37.6 K SHARES 31.7 K SHARES

In November 2015, Dwayne ROCK Johnson gave us a message that we all need to note today. He said, "'I found that with depression one of the most important things you could realize is that you're not alone. 'I wish I had someone at that time who could just pull me aside and [say], "Hey, it's going to be okay. It's going to be okay. You've just gotta remember, hold onto that fundamental quality of faith. Have faith, and on the other side of your pain is something good."

5. Karan Johar

6. Deepika Padukone

After opening up about her depression on national television, she again spoke about depression and how she fought against it. She said, “I did not want to be in the situation I was. I wanted to come out of it desperately. As they say that every solution is within your own self, I found the strength within me and also the people I had around who made me believe that I can rely on them. If there is hope, there is a way.”

7. Shaheen Bhatt

Alia Bhatt's sister Shaheen was brave enough to write an Instagram post, where she had a crucial message for all of us. She said, "I have days where I feel good and then I have days where I don't. One minute everything's fine and the next it's like someone turned the light off inside my head. I go quiet and it's difficult to get out of bed. Like it always does the world around me loses focus and I struggle to make sense of it. Sometimes these bouts last an hour - sometimes they last days. Today, I say I live with depression rather than I struggle with it because for me (and I speak only for myself here) I don't see why it has to be a struggle."

8. Tiger Shroff

Even though his debut was a grand one, Tiger Shroff could not deal with his first flop. He opened up about his depression recently. He said, “I started on a high with Baaghi (2016). I was over the moon when it opened on 12 crore and did 15 crore on a Sunday. For a newcomer and for a second film, that’s pretty good. And then kept going up. But when the numbers for A Flying Jatt came in, I thought, ‘I put in so much work, why didn’t they like it?'” A month of hard-core depression. A lot of emotional eating. When I started shooting for Munna Michael, I was still in that mindset. I didn’t have any drive. But after I finished my first schedule, I thought, ‘I can’t wait for people to see this now.”