Twitter Reacts to Tim Tebow Hitting a Home Run in First Minor League At-Bat
Twitter Reacts to Tim Tebow Hitting a Home Run in First Minor League At-Bat
Whenever Tim Tebow does anything, the internet is set ablaze. After the 29-year-old former quarterback smashed a home run in his first official at-bat with the Single-A Columbia Fireflies on Thursday, Twitter had a lot to say. Below are some of the most amusing tweets about the New York Mets farm system outfielder: Matt Kemp now has as many home runs as Tim Tebow. Tim Tebow has produced more runs than the entire Mets lineup in the past 10+ innings and now I'm going to drink bleach with my dinner. #LGM Tim Tebow has more HRs in professional baseball this season than Matt Adams, Stephen Piscotty, Matt Carpenter and Yadier Molina COMBINED. 😳 Seems legit, @Sapakoff. #LetsGlow https://t.co/4WzXFSw1St Just amazing. Tim Tebow just keeps climbing up the record books. https://t.co/sw8CjPva32 Trade Tim Tebow for Mike Trout right now...I'll hang up and listen... when you're doing sports radio tomorrow and you get a tim tebow news alert https://t.co/BuEiq18cPW And now for the wildest, courtesy of David Waldstein of the : Tebow homered off Domenic Mazza, who was drafted in the 22nd round by the Giants in 2015...That was pick No. 666. @DavidWaldstein Confirmed: https://t.co/zfIiRlj3M6 That brought back memories of Tebow's 2012 NFL playoff performance against the Pittsburgh Steelers, where he threw for 316 yards and averaged 31.6 yards per pass. Some connected those stats to the Bible verse John 3:16, which Tebow wore on his eye black. [Twitter] Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Sean Rayford/Associated Press

Whenever Tim Tebow does anything, the internet is set ablaze.

After the 29-year-old former quarterback smashed a home run in his first official at-bat with the Single-A Columbia Fireflies on Thursday, Twitter had a lot to say.

Below are some of the most amusing tweets about the New York Mets farm system outfielder:



And now for the wildest, courtesy of David Waldstein of the New York Times:

That brought back memories of Tebow's 2012 NFL playoff performance against the Pittsburgh Steelers, where he threw for 316 yards and averaged 31.6 yards per pass. Some connected those stats to the Bible verse John 3:16, which Tebow wore on his eye black.

[Twitter]