One Direction's Harry Styles Hits No. 1 on Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 Chart With Debut Single 'Sign of the Times'
One Direction's Harry Styles Hits No. 1 on Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 Chart With Debut Single 'Sign of the Times'
One Direction's Harry Styles Hits No. 1 on Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 Chart With Debut Single 'Sign of the Times'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The track reigns following its overnight arrival. After months of speculation, One Direction's Harry Styles has gone solo, and his debut single "Sign of the Times" powered to the top of the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart Friday morning (April 7). The Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart measures the real-time acceleration of conversation around artists and their music on Twitter. Styles' single first appeared on the chart at No. 1 around 5 a.m. ET Friday after its release at midnight ET. He announced the single's release date on March 25 via a TV ad in the U.K. which revealed the singer in a cloud of smoke with the date "April 7" at the end. Styles confirmed on Twitter that April 7 would be the release date of his single. Styles is the fourth member (past or present) of One Direction to release a solo single since the group went on hiatus last year. Niall Horan's debut single "This Town" and multiple tracks from Zayn's debut album  also reached the top of the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart after their releases and Louis Tomlinson's "Just Hold On," with Steve Aoki, reached the top 10 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs. (Liam Payne, meanwhile, is rumored to have new solo music on the horizon.) Styles has not yet announced a release date for his forthcoming album, but will be performing on on April 15.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The track reigns following its overnight arrival.

After months of speculation, One Direction's Harry Styles has gone solo, and his debut single "Sign of the Times" powered to the top of the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart Friday morning (April 7).



The Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart measures the real-time acceleration of conversation around artists and their music on Twitter.



Styles' single first appeared on the chart at No. 1 around 5 a.m. ET Friday after its release at midnight ET. He announced the single's release date on March 25 via a TV ad in the U.K. which revealed the singer in a cloud of smoke with the date "April 7" at the end. Styles confirmed on Twitter that April 7 would be the release date of his single.

Styles is the fourth member (past or present) of One Direction to release a solo single since the group went on hiatus last year. Niall Horan's debut single "This Town" and multiple tracks from Zayn's debut album Mind of Mine also reached the top of the Billboard + Twitter Trending 140 chart after their releases and Louis Tomlinson's "Just Hold On," with Steve Aoki, reached the top 10 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs. (Liam Payne, meanwhile, is rumored to have new solo music on the horizon.)

Styles has not yet announced a release date for his forthcoming album, but will be performing on Saturday Night LiveÂ on April 15.