The Unhappiest Jobs Of 2017
The Unhappiest Jobs Of 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. This week saw the release of an annual report on the happiest and unhappiest jobs in 2017. (image credit: Shutterstock) Having a job that brings you down can feel like you’re stuck in your own personal version of the classic film Groundhog Day —each day you wake up to a familiar yet daunting roster of tasks and confrontations that make you feel a combination of bewilderment, boredom, stress, dread and exhaustion. Being unhappy in your work can pull you into a funk that can be difficult to get out of. But which jobs cause people the most unhappiness? We may have some answers to that question. This week saw the release of an annual report on the happiest and unhappiest jobs in 2017. The data it’s built on comes from CareerBliss , a fulfillment-focused job search site with more than six million independent company reviews and salary comparisons, and more than three million job listings. Based on employee reviews, see the ten Unhappiest Jobs of 2017 in our slideshow below. Also take look at our coverage of CareerBliss’s Happiest Jobs of 2017, for insight on the other side of the spectrum. The Unhappiest Jobs In 2017 Topping the list of unhappiest jobs is Customer Service Representative. Those who toil in this capacity deal with call after call from strangers – some of them quite cross – on subjects ranging from grievance to rote instructions or product information, and they only get an average annual salary of $28,887 to do it. This job received a score of 2.198 out of a possible 5. The next two job titles on the list provide even lower salaries for workers who hold them. In second place, Retail Cashier earns its practitioners a mere $18,000 annually, and received a score of 2.201 out of 5. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Having a job that brings you down can feel like you’re stuck in your own personal version of the classic film Groundhog Day—each day you wake up to a familiar yet daunting roster of tasks and confrontations that make you feel a combination of bewilderment, boredom, stress, dread and exhaustion. Being unhappy in your work can pull you into a funk that can be difficult to get out of.

But which jobs cause people the most unhappiness? We may have some answers to that question.

This week saw the release of an annual report on the happiest and unhappiest jobs in 2017. The data it’s built on comes from CareerBliss, a fulfillment-focused job search site with more than six million independent company reviews and salary comparisons, and more than three million job listings.

Based on employee reviews, see the ten Unhappiest Jobs of 2017 in our slideshow below. Also take look at our coverage of CareerBliss’s Happiest Jobs of 2017, for insight on the other side of the spectrum.

Topping the list of unhappiest jobs is Customer Service Representative. Those who toil in this capacity deal with call after call from strangers – some of them quite cross – on subjects ranging from grievance to rote instructions or product information, and they only get an average annual salary of $28,887 to do it. This job received a score of 2.198 out of a possible 5.

The next two job titles on the list provide even lower salaries for workers who hold them. In second place, Retail Cashier earns its practitioners a mere $18,000 annually, and received a score of 2.201 out of 5.