Report: Mel B's Husband Files For Divorce Citing 'Irreconcilable Differences'
Report: Mel B's Husband Files For Divorce Citing 'Irreconcilable Differences'
Report: Mel B's Husband Files For Divorce Citing 'Irreconcilable Differences'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Former Spice Girl Mel B's husband, film producer Stephen Belafonte, has filed for divorce from the judge two weeks after B filed her petition to end their 10-year marriage. According to TMZ , Belafonte'sÂ petition is seeking spousal support, something B (born Melanie Brown) asked a judge to deny in her filing; both have cited "irreconcilable differences" as the reason for their petitions. Belafonte also reportedly wants the pop star toÂ pay his legal fees and to agree to joint legal custody of the child they have together. B's original petition asked for the same arrangement, but in a restraining order she filed earlier this week she sought sole legal and physical custody of six-year-old daughter Madison. The pair don't appear to agree on when the marriage dissolved, either, as Belafonte cites March 1, 2017 as their date of separation, while Mel B lists it as Dec. 28, 2016, which TMZ said could make a difference when it comes to dividing up their property.  The pair secretly married in Las Vegas in June 2007 after dating for five months. Earlier this week TMZ reported that B's restraining order included claims that BelafonteÂ attempted to control her through physical and emotional abuse. The singer andÂ Â judge allegedly claims in the order that she was in an emotionally weak state when she married Belafonte in June 2007 in Las Vegas.Â She reportedly claims in the order filed Monday (Apr. 3)Â that Belafonte attacked her self-confidence and self-esteem, specifically as she tried to lose weight post-pregnancy and that she lived in fear that he would make good on his threat to release sex tapes on them that he'd recorded in order to ruin her career and possibly have their children taken away. A spokesperson for Brown could not be reached for comment at press time. Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Former Spice Girl Mel B's husband, film producer Stephen Belafonte, has filed for divorce from the America's Got Talent judge two weeks after B filed her petition to end their 10-year marriage. According to TMZ, Belafonte'sÂ petition is seeking spousal support, something B (born Melanie Brown) asked a judge to deny in her filing; both have cited "irreconcilable differences" as the reason for their petitions.

Belafonte also reportedly wants the pop star toÂ pay his legal fees and to agree to joint legal custody of the child they have together. B's original petition asked for the same arrangement, but in a restraining order she filed earlier this week she sought sole legal and physical custody of six-year-old daughter Madison. The pair don't appear to agree on when the marriage dissolved, either, as Belafonte cites March 1, 2017 as their date of separation, while Mel B lists it as Dec. 28, 2016, which TMZ said could make a difference when it comes to dividing up their property.

The pair secretly married in Las Vegas in June 2007 after dating for five months. Earlier this week TMZ reported that B's restraining order included claims that BelafonteÂ attempted to control her through physical and emotional abuse. The singer andÂ America's Got TalentÂ judge allegedly claims in the order that she was in an emotionally weak state when she married Belafonte in June 2007 in Las Vegas.Â

She reportedly claims in the order filed Monday (Apr. 3)Â that Belafonte attacked her self-confidence and self-esteem, specifically as she tried to lose weight post-pregnancy and that she lived in fear that he would make good on his threat to release sex tapes on them that he'd recorded in order to ruin her career and possibly have their children taken away.

A spokesperson for Brown could not be reached for comment at press time.

Â