Ranking the Top 25 Sophomores Heading into the 2017 College Football Season
Ranking the Top 25 Sophomores Heading into the 2017 College Football Season
Ranking the Top 25 Sophomores Heading into the 2017 College Football Season College football teams love a veteran-filled roster, but every program wants a few standout sophomores. These young players bring on-field energy and off-field excitement, especially since a majority of them will remain at the school for another season beyond the current campaign. We're ranking the 25 best heading into 2017 and exploring their debut, current outlook and best-case potential in the future. Redshirt sophomores are included, so the list is not limited to second-year players who were on the field last year. Consequently, some of these talents will be draft-eligible after this season, so 2017 could be the final time we see several in college. While projected 2017 role factored into the order, previous contributions had the largest impact. Honorable Mentions Many other sophomores warranted consideration for this list but either didn't hold a large enough role or weren't quite at the level of the selected group. That may change in 2017. Arkansas RB Devwah Whaley Clemson DE Clelin Ferrell Duke LB Joe Giles-Harris Georgia Tech OG Parker Braun Miami DE Joe Jackson Miami LB Michael Pinckney Michigan OG Ben Bredeson Michigan State WR Donnie Corley Ohio State RB Mike Weber Ole Miss CB Jaylon Jones Ole Miss QB Shea Patterson Ole Miss WR Van Jefferson Oklahoma LB Caleb Kelly Oklahoma State RB Justice Hill Penn State OG/OT Ryan Bates Stanford OG Nate Herbig Texas EDGE Malcolm Roach Texas QB Shane Buechele Texas WR Devin Duvernay Texas A&M RB Trayveon Williams UTSA LB Josiah Tauaefa 25. Bryan London, LB, Texas State Texas State stumbled through the 2016 season for many reasons, but Bryan London made sure the linebacking corps didn't have any more issues. He registered double-digit tackles in 10 of 12 games and ended the year with 141, which ranked second nationally. Ideally, the Bobcats defense won't play as many snaps, subsequently limiting London's opportunities. But there's no guarantee that's going to happen while Everett Withers tries to rebuild the roster. The redshirt sophomore should have the chance to put together more massive stat lines. London, a 6'2", 215-pounder, clearly has a knack for getting to the right spot. Perhaps there's no better news for Texas State, which will continue to struggle until the defensive line is more disruptive. There's no player in better position to make a run for Luke Kuechly's career tackle record of 532. 24. Clifton Duck, CB, Appalachian State Clifton Duck, on an otherwise junior- and senior-dominated Appalachian State defense, made a terrific first impression. The cornerback notched 57 tackles, five interceptions and eight pass breakups en route to being named Sun Belt Freshman of the Year. App State's opener at Georgia can help Duck begin the 2017 season in style, considering he won't face a tougher quarterback Jacob Eason and avoids Troy in the crossover slate. Duck should be headed for another first-team All-Sun Belt honor. While All-American status is probably a bit lofty, he could become one of the conference's most feared cornerbacks. The absolute best-case scenario is Duck plays well enough in 2018 that he's an under-the-radar early NFL draft declaration, but App State wouldn't mind keeping him for four years. 23. N'Keal Harry, WR, Arizona State Arizona State's receiving corps needed to replace three of its top four receivers, and N'Keal Harry admirably filled one void. He caught 58 passes for 659 yards and a team-best five touchdowns, adding two rushing scores on three carries. Hopefully the Sun Devils will quickly settle the quarterback competition between incumbent Manny Wilkins, Alabama transfer Blake Barnett and a couple other youngsters. Now that Tim White is chasing an NFL dream, Harry should be Arizona State's leading receiver in every category. With speed, great body control and a 6'4", 220-pound frame, Harry has the physical tools to become a dominant Pac-12 target. He could surpass the 1,000-yard barrier twice before becoming eligible for the NFL draft. 22. Isaac Nauta, TE, Georgia Isaac Nauta arrived in Athens with immense hype, and he did nothing to suggest it was undeserved. The tight end collected 29 receptions for 361 yards and three touchdowns, securing a place on the All- team. After a quality debut from Nauta, Georgia will be looking for more consistency. Over the final six games, he topped 40 yards three times yet had fewer than 10 three times. That also extends to run blocking, where Nauta showed promise but was far from a finished product. Since blocking is a major part of the offense, that offers Nauta the chance to develop into a coveted three-down tight end. And in the process of attracting that NFL attention, Nauta has an All-American ceiling for the Bulldogs. 21. Demetris Robertson, WR, Cal Demetris Robertson's debut probably made Cal fans forget the dramatic offseason that preceded it. He ranked second on the team with 50 receptions, 767 yards and seven touchdowns while also averaging 20.2 yards on 10 kick returns. It's a year of major transition for the offense. Gone are quarterback Davis Webb and standout receiver Chad Hansen. Robertson and fellow sophomore Melquise Stovall have 1,000-yard ability, but who's the quarterback? Assuming the Golden Bears find a long-term answer at quarterback, the highly recruited Robertson can be everything Hansen was—plus a little more explosive plays. Robertson should challenge for All-Pac-12 honors in 2018. 20. Benny Snell, RB, Kentucky Benny Snell didn't record a carry in Kentucky's first two games of 2016 yet ended the year as the program's record-holder for rushing yards as a freshman. He racked up 1,091 yards and a team-high 13 touchdowns. Not only did the Wildcats lose leading rusher Boom Williams, Jojo Kemp (349 yards, six touchdowns) was a senior. Snell will be asked to shoulder a heavy load, though it helps the offensive line returns four starters and two rotational pieces. Snell excelled in a time-share, so the excitement surrounding his first season as the featured back is justified. Turnover on the offensive line after 2016 is a concern, but Snell's burst, powerful running style and refusal to get stopped by first contact could garner NFL attention if he stays healthy. 19. Reggie Walker, EDGE, Kansas State Jordan Willis attracted most of the praise on Kansas State's defensive line, but Reggie Walker collected 11.5 tackles for loss and 6.5 sacks behind the NFL-bound rusher. Walker earned Big 12 Defensive Freshman of the Year recognition. The Wildcats will expect Walker to fill Willis' void, though it's not fair to bank on similar production immediately. Walker is suddenly respected pass-rusher rather than the complement. This role change comes with more attention. Already a balanced contributor up front, Walker's biggest challenge is making the leap from good to great. If his development goes as hoped, Kansas State will have replaced a first-team Big 12 rusher with another one. 18. Troy Dye, OLB, Oregon Saying Troy Dye's freshman year softened the negative outcome of Oregon's 2016 season is disingenuous. But it's certainly not a mistake to point to Dye as a reason for optimism after he tallied a team-best 91 stops with 13 for loss and 6.5 sacks. Dye shuffled through multiple spots last season, and he showed decent skills in coverage. But the major question for 2017 is whether new defensive coordinator Jim Leavitt will utilize Dye in more of an edge-rushing role as part of the shift from a 4-3 to a 3-4 defense. Leavitt's plan creates a significant unknown for Dye's ceiling. But with room to grow on his 6'4", 225-pound frame, Dye could develop into a dynamic edge-rusher. 17. Jarrett Stidham, QB, Auburn Two years ago at Baylor, Jarrett Stidham posted impressive garbage-time stats and played well in three starts after replacing an injured Seth Russell. However, Stidham elected to transfer from Baylor and sat out 2016 before landing at Auburn. Firstly, the gunslinger needs to officially win the quarterback job, since he's battling with incumbent Sean White. But Stidham entered the spring as the favorite to win the competition. Should he indeed start, Stidham will offer the Tigers the high-volume downfield passer they've sorely lacked recently. Stidham's arrival at Auburn immediately raised expectations for the program this season. A young group of receivers could cap his production this season, but Stidham undoubtedly has the tools necessary to entice NFL observers. 16. Brian Burns, DE, Florida State "Trapped" behind DeMarcus Walker and Josh Sweat, Brian Burns occupied a rotational role last season. But that didn't stop him from producing when given the chance. Burns totaled 24 tackles and led all freshmen nationally with 9.5 sacks. Florida State's defensive ends should be outstanding, and that's partially a product of having Derrick Nnadi and Demarcus Christmas clogging the interior. The extra attention opponents must devote to the middle should allow both Sweat and Burns to challenge for double-digit sacks in 2017. Listed at 6'5" and just 218 pounds, it's reasonable to suggest Burns needs to add weight. After seeing his production in 2016, though, that's not a concern. 15. Jessie Bates, S, Wake Forest After taking a redshirt in 2015, Jessie Bates wasted no time asserting himself on the Wake Forest defense last season. The talented safety recorded 100 tackles and grabbed a team-high five interceptions, returning two for touchdowns. While Duke Ejiofor will be the defense's key player, Bates must lead a revamped secondary that is full of inexperience. Plus, without ever-reliable Marquel Lee at linebacker, Bates must be prepared to handle a few more messes at the second level. Florida State's Derwin James, Pitt's Jordan Whitehead and Virginia's Quin Blanding will probably keep Bates under the national radar next season. But in 2018 as a fourth-year junior, Bates should be a leading choice for first-team All-ACC recognition. 14. Shaq Quarterman, MLB, Miami Due to graduation, suspensions and injury, Miami turned to three freshmen linebackers in 2016. Shaq Quarterman was the best of a talented trio that also featured Michael Pinckney and Zach McCloud. Quarterman notched 84 tackles, ranking second on the team. In defensive coordinator Manny Diaz's aggressive scheme, Quarterman will have plenty of chances to make stops behind the line of scrimmage. But what the 'Canes need most is a reliable centerpiece, especially after losing a pair of senior safeties. Quarterman will be the anchor of Miami's defense. Quarterman is a tenacious middle linebacker who shows relentless physicality and toughness, best evidenced by playing through a torn labrum in 2016. As long as injuries don't become a concern, Quarterman could be a top-five player nationally at his position in a couple years. 13. Justin Herbert, QB, Oregon After a three-game slide sent Oregon to a 2-3 record, the program turned to Justin Herbert for the remainder of the season. He didn't reverse the team's fortunes, but Herbert threw for 1,936 yards and 19 touchdowns to just four interceptions. New coach Willie Taggart will hold an open competition this spring for all positions like every new coach does, but Herbert is the clear front-runner to start. Taggart brings a fresh offensive perspective, while the Ducks return top targets Darren Carrington and Charles Nelson. Herbert is in a great position to succeed. Let's hold off on declaring Herbert the orchestrator of a return to the Marcus Mariota days. Besides, a wait-and-see approach is probably best for Herbert, considering he entered a losing situation and is now adjusting to a new coach. But with the numbers Taggart-led offenses have put up, Herbert's ceiling is appealing. 12. Rashan Gary, DE/DT, Michigan Behind a talented duo of Taco Charlton and Chris Wormley, Rashan Gary settled for dominating in a rotational role. He collected 24 tackles with five for loss and officially tallied six hurries , though Pro Football Focus credited him with 14. Charlton, Wormley and Ryan Glasgow are all headed to the NFL. Michigan has a penchant for fielding the best four on the defensive line, so Gary will almost certainly play a bit of defensive tackle in addition to starting at end. Athletically, Gary has few peers among defensive ends at the college level. If his production as a starter matches what most analysts think will happen, Gary will be an All-American contender and an early first-round NFL draft pick. 11. Ahmmon Richards, WR, Miami Miami eased Ahmmon Richards into the rotation, but he quickly made it difficult for the coaches to remove him. Richards broke the program record for receiving yards (934), surpassing the old mark set by Michael Irvin. Not bad company. Richards had 49 catches and three touchdowns. The departures of Brad Kaaya, Stacy Coley and David Njoku leave a few significant holes for the Hurricanes to fill. Richards, as well as running back Mark Walton, will be relied upon early and often for an offense that needs major development from Dionte Mullins and Braxton Berrios. Former NFL wideout Santana Moss holds the school record at 2,547 yards, which is quite an attainable mark. Richards is a big-play threat with an impressive ability to create yards after the catch. Depending on how the QB situation shakes out over the next two years, Richards has All-ACC potential plus a little more. 10. Jacob Eason, QB, Georgia Last season, it wasn't "if" Jacob Eason would start. It was a matter of when—and the top recruit only needed one game to establish himself as the best option. Eason completed 55.1 percent of his 370 pass attempts for 2,430 yards and 16 touchdowns to just eight interceptions. Georgia will continue to ride Nick Chubb and Sony Michel, but Eason should be in a better position if Nauta and Riley Ridley make the strides in their development as expected. The Bulldogs will probably be the majority favorite to win the SEC East. Because of the offensive system, Eason likely won't ever accumulate eye-popping season numbers. Purely as a prospect, though, he checks every physical-related box. Eason could be one of the 2018 NFL draft's most coveted players. 9. Deondre Francois, QB, Florida State Toughness is not really quantifiable, but Deondre Francois exemplified the trait. He took several crushing hits but always checked back in, eventually earning ACC Rookie of the Year. Francois threw for 3,350 yards and 21 touchdowns to a mere seven interceptions while running for five more scores. Although the 'Noles lost Dalvin Cook, Travis Rudolph and Kermit Whitfield, an improved defense will reduce the pressure on Francois. The redshirt sophomore's efficiency should help him secure an All-ACC honor. Francois is a mobile pocket passer, and that skill set perfectly suits both head coach Jimbo Fisher's offense and what most NFL teams desire. Francois put together a better debut than either of Christian Ponder and EJ Manuel had at their college best, yet they were both first-round picks. 8. Taylor Rapp, DB, Washington Washington boasted one of the nation's best secondaries with three players who are now NFL-bound. Kevin King, Sidney Jones and Budda Baker garnered much of the praise, but Taylor Rapp's 52 tackles ranked fifth on the defense and his four interceptions led the Dawgs. Questioning Rapp's talent level is not the same as saying we haven't seen Rapp without a pair of elite college corners locking down the outside. Plus, he moved between nickelback and safety last season, so there's no guarantee Rapp fills Baker's position on a full-time basis this season. Rapp was a fixture of the 2016 defense, and that should ring true for at least two more seasons. The big unknown is where Rapp will spend a majority of his snaps in 2017 and beyond. What Washington decides will make this question clearer. 7. Jonah Williams, OT, Alabama Contributing as a freshman is hard enough. Being an offensive lineman makes that even tougher. Jonah Williams accomplished both—while playing for Nick Saban and Alabama. The right tackle deserved every bit of his SEC All-Freshman team honor. Jalen Hurts needs a blindside protector to replace potential first-round pick Cam Robinson, and that responsibility falls on Williams. Considering the Alabama staff named him Offensive Player of the Week nine times last season, expectations aren't exactly low. If that last sentence wasn't enough to convince you of the 6'5", 296-pounder's talent, what will? The Tide regularly put linemen into the NFL, and Williams consistently performed better as a freshman than a potential Day 1 selection in Robinson. 6. Nick Bosa, DE, Ohio State Exactly like Rashan Gary up north, Nick Bosa played a second-string role and simply terrorized blocking against both the pass and run. Beyond his 29 tackles and five sacks, Pro Football Focus credited Bosa with a terrific 26 hurries. Ohio State has a "problem." How do you find adequate playing time for Sam Hubbard, Tyquan Lewis, Jalyn Holmes and Bosa? Other than the Buckeyes' awesome third-down package featuring all four, they'll be rotating with each other. That caps Bosa's production level, but it still should be high. Everything his brother Joey—a consensus All-American—accomplished, the younger Bosa could also achieve. Perhaps the only thing the now-Los Angeles Charger didn't earn was a major national award like the Bednarik or Nagurski. Nick could contend for those honors in 2018. 5. Sam Darnold, QB, USC Sam Darnold turned around what seemed like a lost season, guiding USC to a Rose Bowl victory. He took the starting reins in the fourth game and finished the year with a 67.2 completion percentage, 3,086 yards and 31 touchdowns while tossing nine interceptions. The Trojans are considered a leading threat for the national championship, and the first point of evidence typically is Darnold. The physical tools are obvious, and he handles pressure well when recognized properly. But that isn't always the case, who is prone to moments of panic in the pocket. Sharpening the mental side is key for Darnold this season. Darnold, a draft-eligible player in 2018, will be mentioned among the top prospects until proven otherwise. Former teammate JuJu Smith-Schuster said "you best believe he'll be the No. 1 pick next year," per Joey Kaufman of the . Darnold has that potential, but will the enormous weight of those expectations bring him down? 4. Jalen Hurts, QB, Alabama Alabama quickly turned from Cooper Bateman and Blake Barnett to Jalen Hurts, who responded with an SEC Freshman of the Year campaign. He amassed 2,780 yards and 23 touchdowns through the air while scampering for 954 yards and 13 more scores for the national runner-up. The switch from Lane Kiffin to Brian Daboll may have a larger impact than is generally discussed. Hurts, assuming he holds off Tua Tagovailoa, will be expected to transition seamlessly, but Kiffin was a good coordinator and simplified the offense. Hurts has All-American talent as long as coaching doesn't hurt him. Although Hurts must improve his downfield accuracy and accuracy under pressure, his ability to go through a progression and top-notch mobility are appealing assets. With proper development, Hurts could be the most gifted quarterback to emerge from a Nick Saban-coached program. 3. Derwin James, S, Florida State Two years ago, Derwin James exploded onto the college football scene with 91 tackles, 4.5 sacks and two forced fumbles. Unfortunately for the standout safety, a meniscus tear in his left knee ended the 2016 campaign after just two games. James received a medical redshirt. James will reclaim his spot as a starter in the Florida State secondary. The Seminoles should boast one of the ACC's best defenses, and James' versatility is a major reason why. He covers well both in man and zone, provides great run support and is an efficient blitzer. James is a hard-hitting safety with outstanding range. As long he stays healthy in 2017, he could earn an All-American nod warranting consideration as a first-round selection. James may declare early to hear his name called in the 2018 NFL draft. 2. Ed Oliver, DT, Houston Ed Oliver backed up his 5-star recruiting billing during his first year at Houston. The local product racked up 66 tackles with 22.5 stops for loss and five sacks. Oliver had nine pass breakups , seven hurries and three forced fumbles. Houston loses a trio of key contributors in Tyus Bowser, Steven Taylor and Cameron Malveaux. Oliver was already the best individual player, but the Cougars need to replenish the surrounding talent to keep opponents from being able to double-team him on every snap. The 6'2", 290-pounder can still improve as a pass-rusher, but Oliver is a dominant run-stuffer. His explosiveness off the ball is outstanding. A first-team AP All-America honoree as a freshman, Oliver has future top-five NFL draft pick written all over him. His play over the next two years will determine if that comes true. 1. Dexter Lawrence, DT, Clemson Dexter Lawrence didn't receive much attention while Deshaun Watson led Clemson to a national championship. Rest assured, opponents had to concentrate on the 6'5", 340-pound monster. Lawrence amassed 62 tackles, nine stops for loss and 6.5 sacks, and PFF credited him with 32 hurries. Clemson's defensive line will be spectacular, even after the departure of Carlos Watkins. Lawrence, the 2016 ACC Defensive Rookie of the Year, will be the centerpiece of a unit that also features Christian Wilkins and Clelin Ferrell. Lawrence is already an All-American-caliber tackle. Just like his elite counterpart at Houston, the biggest question is whether Lawrence can continue to sharpen his physical skills in 2017 and 2018 before NFL franchises take a keen interest in his decision about declaring early. Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

1 of 27

Jamie Sabau/Getty Images

College football teams love a veteran-filled roster, but every program wants a few standout sophomores.

These young players bring on-field energy and off-field excitement, especially since a majority of them will remain at the school for another season beyond the current campaign.

We're ranking the 25 best heading into 2017 and exploring their debut, current outlook and best-case potential in the future.

Redshirt sophomores are included, so the list is not limited to second-year players who were on the field last year. Consequently, some of these talents will be draft-eligible after this season, so 2017 could be the final time we see several in college.

While projected 2017 role factored into the order, previous contributions had the largest impact.