Over 250,000 patients forced to change surgery as record number of GP practices close
Over 250,000 patients forced to change surgery as record number of GP practices close
More than a quarter of a million patients were forced to change their doctor’s surgery last year as the closure of GP practices hit record levels, data suggests. Some 265,000 patients had to change their practice, a 150 per cent increase on 2014 figures and a 15 per cent increase on 2015, according to data collected by magazine under the Freedom of Information Act . The figures, most of which were provided by NHS England, showed that 57 practices closed completely last year. A further 34 closed due to the merger of practices.   NHS is in crisis, warn peers in damning new report Some areas were particularly hit, with Brighton seeing seven practices close in the past two years, said. Four of these closures meant 9,000 patients had to find a new surgery. Last year, NHS England announced a £500m “turnaround package” to help struggling surgeries, including those at risk of closure. Professor Helen Stokes-Lampard, chair of the Royal College of GPs, said: “GP practices are the lifeblood of our local communities so the complete closure of any practice will always be a last resort when all other options have proved unworkable. “Unfortunately, too many practices are being forced to close because GPs and their teams can no longer cope with ever-growing patient demand without the necessary funding and workforce to deal with it.” She said some practices choose to merge “in order to pool their resources to provide additional services or better appointment access, which is in the best interests of patients”. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    6 April 2017   London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app   PA wire     6 April 2017   London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app.   PA wire     6 April 2017   The cocaine haul in the fishing boat The Bianca, as her skipper Michael McDermott will be sentenced after he tried to smuggle more than £80 million of cocaine into the UK   PA wire     6 April 2017   Jon Platt arrives at the Supreme Court in central London with his wife Sally where the Court will rule on the much-anticipated legal case on an unauthorised holiday during school term time   PA wire     6 April 2017   Bunny Penny, the Playboy Club Bunny of the Year wears an edible chocolate corset and bunny ears at Marble Arch in London   PA wire     6 April 2017   105-year-old Jack Reynolds receives his Guinness World Record certificate after riding the Twistersaurus rollercoaster to raise money for the Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Rutland Air Ambulance fund at Flamingo Land in Malton, North Yorkshire.  Reynolds, who broke a Guinness World Record by becoming the oldest person in the world to get a tattoo at the age of 104, said he was not nervous, particularly after flying in a Tiger Moth plane last year   PA wire     6 April 2017   Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, leaves after meeting Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May inside 10 Downing Street   Reuters     5 April 2017   Member of the European Parliament and former leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage wears socks with Union Jack flag at the European Parliament in Strasbourg   Getty Images     5 April 2017    Getty Images     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     1 April 2017   Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London   Ben Stevens/PA Wire  Dr Chaand Nagpaul, chairman of the British Medical Association’s GP committee, told : “We know the money, targeted in the right way, for the most severely affected practices, can make a difference. “The tragedy is CCGs [Clinical Commissioning Groups] have not delivered their part in making the resource available. Many practices that should have received support have had none to date. That’s been a failing of local delivery.” An NHS England spokesman said: “All NHS patients wanting to register with a GP practice are guaranteed to be able to do so and we have increased investment in general practice by £1bn in two years in order to improve services and boost GP numbers. The spokesman said the figures “as presented” did not reflected the full picture as they included patients whose records automatically transferred after a merger. Read more The viral Facebook post written by junior doctor found dead at home If we keep the target on migration, we contribute to the NHS's demise NHS 111 helpline 'put suicidal callers on hold until they hung up' Nurse sacked for 'telling patient prayer would help survival chances' He said: “As part of our plans to improve general practice services and boost the workforce, many practices are choosing to merge in order to offer patients a much greater range of services.” Shadow Health Secretary, Jonathan Ashworth, commented: “Given the crisis in hospitals we’ve seen, we need to be taking pressure off of hospitals. “That means doing much more to protect GP services. With Labour, general practice will be at the heart of making the English NHS more focused on care closer to home. “Tory ministers need to take urgent action to address this spike in GP practice closures and explain what they will do to make sure patients can easily and safely access the GP services they need.” More about: GP NHS doctors Comments

More than a quarter of a million patients were forced to change their doctor’s surgery last year as the closure of GP practices hit record levels, data suggests.

Some 265,000 patients had to change their practice, a 150 per cent increase on 2014 figures and a 15 per cent increase on 2015, according to data collected by Pulse magazine under the Freedom of Information Act.

The figures, most of which were provided by NHS England, showed that 57 practices closed completely last year. A further 34 closed due to the merger of practices.

Some areas were particularly hit, with Brighton seeing seven practices close in the past two years, Pulse said.

Four of these closures meant 9,000 patients had to find a new surgery.

Last year, NHS England announced a £500m “turnaround package” to help struggling surgeries, including those at risk of closure.

Professor Helen Stokes-Lampard, chair of the Royal College of GPs, said: “GP practices are the lifeblood of our local communities so the complete closure of any practice will always be a last resort when all other options have proved unworkable.

“Unfortunately, too many practices are being forced to close because GPs and their teams can no longer cope with ever-growing patient demand without the necessary funding and workforce to deal with it.”

She said some practices choose to merge “in order to pool their resources to provide additional services or better appointment access, which is in the best interests of patients”.

UK news in pictures







14 show all UK news in pictures

























1/14 6 April 2017 London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app PA wire

2/14 6 April 2017 London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app. PA wire

3/14 6 April 2017 The cocaine haul in the fishing boat The Bianca, as her skipper Michael McDermott will be sentenced after he tried to smuggle more than £80 million of cocaine into the UK PA wire

4/14 6 April 2017 Jon Platt arrives at the Supreme Court in central London with his wife Sally where the Court will rule on the much-anticipated legal case on an unauthorised holiday during school term time PA wire

5/14 6 April 2017 Bunny Penny, the Playboy Club Bunny of the Year wears an edible chocolate corset and bunny ears at Marble Arch in London PA wire

6/14 6 April 2017 105-year-old Jack Reynolds receives his Guinness World Record certificate after riding the Twistersaurus rollercoaster to raise money for the Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Rutland Air Ambulance fund at Flamingo Land in Malton, North Yorkshire. Reynolds, who broke a Guinness World Record by becoming the oldest person in the world to get a tattoo at the age of 104, said he was not nervous, particularly after flying in a Tiger Moth plane last year PA wire

7/14 6 April 2017 Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, leaves after meeting Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May inside 10 Downing Street Reuters

8/14 5 April 2017 Member of the European Parliament and former leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage wears socks with Union Jack flag at the European Parliament in Strasbourg Getty Images

9/14 5 April 2017 Getty Images

10/14 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

11/14 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

12/14 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

13/14 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

14/14 1 April 2017 Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London Ben Stevens/PA Wire

Dr Chaand Nagpaul, chairman of the British Medical Association’s GP committee, told Pulse: “We know the money, targeted in the right way, for the most severely affected practices, can make a difference.

“The tragedy is CCGs [Clinical Commissioning Groups] have not delivered their part in making the resource available. Many practices that should have received support have had none to date. That’s been a failing of local delivery.”

An NHS England spokesman said: “All NHS patients wanting to register with a GP practice are guaranteed to be able to do so and we have increased investment in general practice by £1bn in two years in order to improve services and boost GP numbers.

The spokesman said the figures “as presented” did not reflected the full picture as they included patients whose records automatically transferred after a merger.

He said: “As part of our plans to improve general practice services and boost the workforce, many practices are choosing to merge in order to offer patients a much greater range of services.”

Shadow Health Secretary, Jonathan Ashworth, commented: “Given the crisis in hospitals we’ve seen, we need to be taking pressure off of hospitals.

“That means doing much more to protect GP services. With Labour, general practice will be at the heart of making the English NHS more focused on care closer to home.

“Tory ministers need to take urgent action to address this spike in GP practice closures and explain what they will do to make sure patients can easily and safely access the GP services they need.”