Sweden torn over how to handle incoming terrorists
Sweden torn over how to handle incoming terrorists
TERRORISM Sweden torn over how to handle incoming terrorists By    As investigators piece together a possible motive in Friday's apparent terror attack in Stockholm, government officials have disagreed on the right way to handle terrorists entering the country — with one lawmaker suggesting they should be “integrated” back into society. Swedish Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke, reportedly made the remarks in early March. “First of all there are suspicions of crimes, they need to be investigated — and any such crimes should be punished,” Kuhnke said. “But after that we need structures locally, such as social services, around our country to integrate them back into our democratic society.” Liberal Party leader Jan Björklund called the comments “ignorant”. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said Kuhnke's words were misinterpreted, and that security for Sweden's citizens was paramount. This week, the Gatestone Institute on International Policy Council, which describes itself as nonpartisan and nonprofit, pointed out that the Muslim Brotherhood is well established in Sweden, citing a report ordered by the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency. A Gatestone analyst warned Sweden that it “would be wise” to take the report “extremely seriously, and not discard it.”  At about this time last year, the Iraqi government warned Sweden that the Islamic State terror group may have plotted to attack civilian targets in Stockholm. An Iraqi official said that the planned attack on Stockholm involved seven or eight Iraqi citizens who were former members of Al-Qaeda in Iraq, NBC News reported . The U.S. Embassy in Stockholm confirmed last year that Swedish Police were “actively investigating” a potential terror threat against Sweden. Sweden has produced more ISIS fighters per capita than almost any other country in the European Union, CBS News reported last year. Brooke Singman is a Reporter for Fox News. Follow her on Twitter at @brookefoxnews .

As investigators piece together a possible motive in Friday's apparent terror attack in Stockholm, government officials have disagreed on the right way to handle terrorists entering the country — with one lawmaker suggesting they should be “integrated” back into society.

Swedish Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke, reportedly made the remarks in early March.

“First of all there are suspicions of crimes, they need to be investigated — and any such crimes should be punished,” Kuhnke said. “But after that we need structures locally, such as social services, around our country to integrate them back into our democratic society.”

Liberal Party leader Jan Björklund called the comments “ignorant”. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said Kuhnke's words were misinterpreted, and that security for Sweden's citizens was paramount.

This week, the Gatestone Institute on International Policy Council, which describes itself as nonpartisan and nonprofit, pointed out that the Muslim Brotherhood is well established in Sweden, citing a report ordered by the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency.

A Gatestone analyst warned Sweden that it “would be wise” to take the report “extremely seriously, and not discard it.”



At about this time last year, the Iraqi government warned Sweden that the Islamic State terror group may have plotted to attack civilian targets in Stockholm.

An Iraqi official said that the planned attack on Stockholm involved seven or eight Iraqi citizens who were former members of Al-Qaeda in Iraq, NBC News reported.

The U.S. Embassy in Stockholm confirmed last year that Swedish Police were “actively investigating” a potential terror threat against Sweden.

Sweden has produced more ISIS fighters per capita than almost any other country in the European Union, CBS News reported last year.

Brooke Singman is a Reporter for Fox News. Follow her on Twitter at @brookefoxnews.

