Lonzo Ball Reacts to LeBron James 'Mocking' His Shooting Form
Lonzo Ball Reacts to LeBron James 'Mocking' His Shooting Form
The loud fucking mouth of LaVar Ball has painted a target on his kids' backs, even if no active NBA players will admit it in public. And the most notable of these potential feuds would seem to be with LeBron James after LaVar predicted that LeBron's kids wouldn't end up as very good pro players . While LeBron issued a stern warning to LaVar to "keep my kids' names out of your mouth," he actually did compliment Lonzo by saying, "I actually like his son. I like his game." Keep that in mind as you read this. Less than a day after LeBron made those remarks, Lonzo refused to apologize . "Apologize for what?" he loudly wondered because he can never just say . "I don’t apologize for nothing." "I don't care what LeBron says. What is a warning going to do? NOTHING! Have you ever seen a superstar where the son is better? -LaVar Ball Fast forward to last Thursday when LeBron was in Chicago to play the Bulls. During warmups LeBron practiced an unorthodox/ugly shot that got caught on camera because there are cameras pointed at him 24/7. This made wonder if he was mocking Lonzo's shot, that devilish grin after he pops it probably supports that theory: Is LeBron shading Lonzo Ball or nah? 🤔 pic.twitter.com/cJgzFjB7m5 It's not actually clear if LeBron was indeed mocking Lonzo's form, but it doesn't really matter at this point since Lonzo responded to it as if he did while he was on on Thursday . Not only was Lonzo bothered by it, but he actually seemed to subscribe to the "imitation is the sincerest form of flattery," thing that people frequently peddle. “I have no problem with it. That’s my favorite player growing up. He’s shooting like me, I’m not shooting like him, he’s shooting like me, so I smile," Ball said, in sharp contrast to his father. "I’m not gonna lie, LeBron’s my favorite player. He is. I respect Kobe too.” He also added that he'd rather be a Laker than a No. 1 overall pick. Alright cool, cool. Glad to have the dust settled on those two issues. Now ask his dad what he thinks.

The loud fucking mouth of LaVar Ball has painted a target on his kids' backs, even if no active NBA players will admit it in public. And the most notable of these potential feuds would seem to be with LeBron James after LaVar predicted that LeBron's kids wouldn't end up as very good pro players. While LeBron issued a stern warning to LaVar to "keep my kids' names out of your mouth," he actually did compliment Lonzo by saying, "I actually like his son. I like his game." Keep that in mind as you read this.

Less than a day after LeBron made those remarks, Lonzo refused to apologize. "Apologize for what?" he loudly wondered because he can never just say no comment. "I don’t apologize for nothing."

"I don't care what LeBron says. What is a warning going to do? NOTHING! Have you ever seen a superstar where the son is better? -LaVar Ball — SXM College Sports (@SiriusXMCollege) March 22, 2017

Fast forward to last Thursday when LeBron was in Chicago to play the Bulls. During warmups LeBron practiced an unorthodox/ugly shot that got caught on camera because there are cameras pointed at him 24/7. This made some people wonder if he was mocking Lonzo's shot, that devilish grin after he pops it probably supports that theory:

Is LeBron shading Lonzo Ball or nah? 🤔 pic.twitter.com/cJgzFjB7m5 — Yahoo Sports (@YahooSports) March 31, 2017

It's not actually clear if LeBron was indeed mocking Lonzo's form, but it doesn't really matter at this point since Lonzo responded to it as if he did while he was on SportsNation on Thursday. Not only was Lonzo not bothered by it, but he actually seemed to subscribe to the "imitation is the sincerest form of flattery," thing that people frequently peddle.

“I have no problem with it. That’s my favorite player growing up. He’s shooting like me, I’m not shooting like him, he’s shooting like me, so I smile," Ball said, in sharp contrast to his father. "I’m not gonna lie, LeBron’s my favorite player. He is. I respect Kobe too.”

He also added that he'd rather be a Laker than a No. 1 overall pick.

Alright cool, cool. Glad to have the dust settled on those two issues. Now ask his dad what he thinks.