Foot Locker Responds to Allegations of Shady Sneaker Release
Foot Locker Responds to Allegations of Shady Sneaker Release


A Twitter user got the attention of Foot Locker this week by posting a video that he says catches a manager engaging in some suspicious sneaker selling. But the chain retailer says that nothing went wrong at the store in question.

User @Don_athon posted the below video on April 3, which has since been retweeted over 2,000 times. In the video, he accuses an employee at the Foot Locker in the Burnsville Center Mall in Burnsville, Minnesota, of "backdooring" the "Royal" Jordan 1s that released on April 1.

waited 4 hours to be lied to manager back doors 6 pairs of royals right in front of me,@footlocker this needs to be addressed, unacceptable pic.twitter.com/jczbgfFol0 — Don (@Don_athon) April 3, 2017

The "Royal" Air Jordan 1 is the type of highly sought-after release that Foot Locker usually holds raffle releases for. In the video, the man behind the camera complains about being lied to about stock and says that people buying the sneakers don't have tickets proving they won a raffle allowing them to buy the shoes. He alleges that the manager of the store broke release day rules by setting pairs aside for employees and friends.

The video is full of accusations but short on actual evidence. The man recording says multiple times that he has video of an employee telling him he'd get a pair, but that promise isn't present in the video above or any of the follow-up clips posted. At one point he claims that he also works in a sneaker store—later he admitted on Twitter that he doesn't.

After blowing up on Twitter, the video gained more traction when it hit the front page of Reddit. Users there and on Twitter have widely condemned Foot Locker for the event.

Foot Locker responded to @Don_athon on Twitter, promising to investigate the incident. The store has since informed Sole Collector that it found no instance of wrongdoing.

"We're taking this situation very seriously," a Foot Locker spokesperson says. "We have policies in place that offer associate benefits, inclusive of making a small percentage of product available to them."

Past tweets from this same user reveal similar complaints against other sneaker stores. The multiple complaints of the same sort cast doubt on the validity of his claim against Foot Locker. He's alleged that Nike sent him confirmation for a pair of shoes only to never send the shoes, and that Finish Line stiffed him on a pair of Jordans.

Image via Twitter

Image via Twitter

When Sole Collector reached out to the man who shot the video, he requested compensation in exchange for an interview, which we declined.