Even Before Recent Knee Injury, Derrick Rose's Future Was Uncertain
Even Before Recent Knee Injury, Derrick Rose's Future Was Uncertain
NEW YORK — Even before he tore his meniscus, Derrick Rose was in trouble. His injury and his subsequent surgery aren't going to boost his standing as in July. But had he finished the season vibrant and healthy, the 28-year-old would still be entering a barren market. On the surface, Rose's numbers this season, his first with the New York Knicks , look fine. He played 64 games. He scored 18 points a night on solid 47.1 percent shooting. He bumped his player efficiency rating back up to 17, per Basketball Reference , the highest it's been since 2012. Much of that explosive burst and bounce that morphed him into the 2010-11 NBA MVP returned. He even completed his season 11th in drives per game , a good number of which he finished in his trademark acrobatic fashion. Look deeper, though, past the nice comeback story and occasional 20-point game, and you see something different. Not only is Rose no longer the player he once was, but he's also someone who, come July, could have trouble finding a home. The basic problem lies in the things Rose doesn't do: play defense, shoot three-pointers and create for others. His defense has been atrocious all year . He takes off plays and dies on screens. He often appears lost when guarding off the ball. He ranks 84th out of 91 point guards in ESPN's defensive real plus-minus statistic, and the Knicks held opponents to 5.8 points per 100 possessions with him off the floor . The old Rose, pre-surgeries, was a player who could be lethargic at times and still be valuable. His ability to get to the rim and create was that electric. No more, though. You can't be a point guard and jack up less than one trey per contest, not get to the foul line an elite clip, not generate looks for others and still be a net positive. That profile doesn't mesh with today's game. All of which leads to the question: What happens to him next? Because what Rose is about to go through this offseason is unprecedented. Here you have a former MVP who will be an unrestricted free agent and who's not even 29 years old, and it's hard to come up with a handful of teams that might— —be interested in him. Of course, there are the Knicks. There are always the Knicks. If they do what they should this offseason—meaning tear the whole thing down and start a clean rebuild around Kristaps Porzingis—there's no reason to even consider Rose. That's if New York does what it should. But it rarely does. "We haven't discussed any of that—when the season ends, we'll all sit down and try to figure out a plan going forward," Knicks head coach Jeff Hornacek told reporters this week when asked if he'd like to see Rose back with the team next campaign. "Derrick did a lot of good things for us this year, with the way he can break down the defense. As the season went on, he got more comfortable with the offense. It's unfortunate he has to have another surgery. I'm sure he'll come back strong from it. He worked hard last year in the summer to get his body in good shape. I'm sure he'll do that again. We'll take a look at it and see if we can bring him back." OK, fine. How else was Hornacek going to respond? Probably not. Also, Hornacek doesn't seem to be fully in the loop about everything happening around Madison Square Garden. Remember, this is how he responded to a question about Rose's health less than an hour before The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski reported the point guard had torn his meniscus. Horancek, on Rose, pregame (questions asked by @Mike_Vorkunov): 'Maybe he can play next game; https://t.co/Ihp9bEEMF6 And while it may sound like coachspeak in any other market, the disconnect in New York has been beyond what most teams have experienced this season. Pre-injury, ESPN's Ian Begley reported the Knicks haven't ruled out bringing back Rose. That we haven't yet heard anyone say the team has no interest in his continued services, following yet another disappointing Knicks year, is telling. Think about it like this: On the court, Rose was mediocre at best. Off the court, he had myriad issues, from being sued in civil court for alleged rape to mysteriously going AWOL on a game day. Most organizations would have made it clear by now that the relationship would be ending with the season. The Knicks, however, are not most organizations. Right now, everything revolves around team president Phil Jackson. Jackson hasn't spoken publicly since late September (coy tweets don't count). All we know is he doesn't like rebuilding, he's 71 and therefore not likely working with a five-year plan and that he really really wants to make the playoffs and prove to everyone that the triangle is as awesome as he thinks it is. Rose is far from a perfect triangle fit. Also, he seems to despise the thing. "S--t, do I have a choice? Do I have a choice?" Rose told reporters in March when asked how he felt about the team's rededicating itself to Jackson's baby. And yet, it's possible the familiarity he has with the system thanks to this season is the thing that endears him to the team president. Does this make sense? Absolutely not. But this is about what could happen this offseason as opposed to what should. In all likelihood, Rose's future options will hinge on how much money he thinks he deserves. Aging superstars don't usually ride peacefully into the sunset. Vince Carter is the exception, not the rule. If Rose thinks he's still a player who deserves big-time money, then it's hard to come up with teams that would offer him a shot. Maybe a desperate franchise like the Sacramento Kings ? Or a sleepy squad like the Orlando Magic ? The Minnesota Timberwolves , a team run by Rose's former coach? The idea of a Ricky Rubio-for-Rose swap was tossed around before the Feb. 23 trade deadline, per ESPN's Marc Stein , but since the All-Star Game, Rubio has been sensational (16.2 points and 10.4 assists per contest). It's hard to envision the Wolves jettisoning him so they can bring in Rose. Rose did tell the 's Marc Berman in early March that he'd be open to joining the Milwaukee Bucks . But it's hard to see Milwaukee going after him when they have Giannis Antetokounmpo, who has played some point, and signed a strong defender in Matthew Dellavedova last summer. That leaves us back where we started, scratching our heads and trying to come up with possible Rose destinations. One-time MVPs usually spend the rest of their careers picking among their many suitors. Rose, on the other hand, is about to learn just how far he's fallen over the last five years.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Aaron Gash/Associated Press

NEW YORK — Even before he tore his meniscus, Derrick Rose was in trouble.

His injury and his subsequent surgery aren't going to boost his standing as an unrestricted free agent in July. It was his fourth knee-related injury and procedure over the past five years, making it clear this troubling trend is ongoing and not a thing of the past. But had he finished the season vibrant and healthy, the 28-year-old would still be entering a barren market.

On the surface, Rose's numbers this season, his first with the New York Knicks, look fine. He played 64 games. He scored 18 points a night on solid 47.1 percent shooting. He bumped his player efficiency rating back up to 17, per Basketball Reference, the highest it's been since 2012. Much of that explosive burst and bounce that morphed him into the 2010-11 NBA MVP returned. He even completed his season 11th in drives per game, a good number of which he finished in his trademark acrobatic fashion.

Look deeper, though, past the nice comeback story and occasional 20-point game, and you see something different. Not only is Rose no longer the player he once was, but he's also someone who, come July, could have trouble finding a home.

Jim McIsaac/Getty Images

The basic problem lies in the things Rose doesn't do: play defense, shoot three-pointers and create for others.

His defense has been atrocious all year. He takes off plays and dies on screens. He often appears lost when guarding off the ball. He ranks 84th out of 91 point guards in ESPN's defensive real plus-minus statistic, and the Knicks held opponents to 5.8 fewer points per 100 possessions with him off the floor.

The old Rose, pre-surgeries, was a player who could be lethargic at times and still be valuable. His ability to get to the rim and create was that electric. No more, though. You can't be a point guard and jack up less than one trey per contest, not get to the foul line an elite clip, not generate looks for others and still be a net positive.

That profile doesn't mesh with today's game.

Rick Bowmer/Associated Press

All of which leads to the question: What happens to him next? Because what Rose is about to go through this offseason is unprecedented. Here you have a former MVP who will be an unrestricted free agent and who's not even 29 years old, and it's hard to come up with a handful of teams that might—might—be interested in him.

Of course, there are the Knicks. There are always the Knicks. If they do what they should this offseason—meaning tear the whole thing down and start a clean rebuild around Kristaps Porzingis—there's no reason to even consider Rose. That's if New York does what it should. But it rarely does.

"We haven't discussed any of that—when the season ends, we'll all sit down and try to figure out a plan going forward," Knicks head coach Jeff Hornacek told reporters this week when asked if he'd like to see Rose back with the team next campaign.

"Derrick did a lot of good things for us this year, with the way he can break down the defense. As the season went on, he got more comfortable with the offense. It's unfortunate he has to have another surgery. I'm sure he'll come back strong from it. He worked hard last year in the summer to get his body in good shape. I'm sure he'll do that again. We'll take a look at it and see if we can bring him back."

OK, fine. How else was Hornacek going to respond? Eh, that Derrick guy, yeah, good riddance to him! Probably not.

Also, Hornacek doesn't seem to be fully in the loop about everything happening around Madison Square Garden. Remember, this is how he responded to a question about Rose's health less than an hour before The Vertical's Adrian Wojnarowski reported the point guard had torn his meniscus.

And while it may sound like coachspeak in any other market, the disconnect in New York has been beyond what most teams have experienced this season.

Pre-injury, ESPN's Ian Begley reported the Knicks haven't ruled out bringing back Rose. That we haven't yet heard anyone say the team has no interest in his continued services, following yet another disappointing Knicks year, is telling.

Think about it like this: On the court, Rose was mediocre at best. Off the court, he had myriad issues, from being sued in civil court for alleged rape to mysteriously going AWOL on a game day.

Most organizations would have made it clear by now that the relationship would be ending with the season. The Knicks, however, are not most organizations.

Right now, everything revolves around team president Phil Jackson. Jackson hasn't spoken publicly since late September (coy tweets don't count). All we know is he doesn't like rebuilding, he's 71 and therefore not likely working with a five-year plan and that he really really really wants to make the playoffs and prove to everyone that the triangle is as awesome as he thinks it is.

Rose is far from a perfect triangle fit. Also, he seems to despise the thing.

"S--t, do I have a choice? Do I have a choice?" Rose told reporters in March when asked how he felt about the team's rededicating itself to Jackson's baby.

And yet, it's possible the familiarity he has with the system thanks to this season is the thing that endears him to the team president. Does this make sense? Absolutely not. But this is about what could happen this offseason as opposed to what should.

Kathy Willens/Associated Press

In all likelihood, Rose's future options will hinge on how much money he thinks he deserves. Aging superstars don't usually ride peacefully into the sunset. Vince Carter is the exception, not the rule.

If Rose thinks he's still a player who deserves big-time money, then it's hard to come up with teams that would offer him a shot. Maybe a desperate franchise like the Sacramento Kings? Or a sleepy squad like the Orlando Magic? The Minnesota Timberwolves, a team run by Tom Thibodeau, Rose's former coach? The idea of a Ricky Rubio-for-Rose swap was tossed around before the Feb. 23 trade deadline, per ESPN's Marc Stein, but since the All-Star Game, Rubio has been sensational (16.2 points and 10.4 assists per contest). It's hard to envision the Wolves jettisoning him so they can bring in Rose.

Rose did tell the New York Post's Marc Berman in early March that he'd be open to joining the Milwaukee Bucks. But it's hard to see Milwaukee going after him when they have Giannis Antetokounmpo, who has played some point, and signed a strong defender in Matthew Dellavedova last summer.

That leaves us back where we started, scratching our heads and trying to come up with possible Rose destinations. One-time MVPs usually spend the rest of their careers picking among their many suitors.

Rose, on the other hand, is about to learn just how far he's fallen over the last five years.

All quotes obtained firsthand unless otherwise noted. All stats from NBA.com unless otherwise noted and accurate heading into Friday's games.

Yaron Weitzman covers the Knicks, and other things, for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter @YaronWeitzman and listen to his Knicks-themed podcast here.