Housing affordability: Blame supply for high prices, not tax breaks, says former banker



Housing affordability: Blame supply for high prices, not tax breaks, says former banker

Updated

As crowds flock to property auctions in Sydney and Melbourne this weekend, former banker Sir Ralph Norris says blame a lack of supply for the sky-high prices likely to be achieved.

Sir Ralph said surging demand is driving home prices up in Australia's two biggest capital cities, not generous tax policies or lax bank lending practices.

Sir Ralph finished in the role of CEO at the Commonwealth Bank in 2011 and is now the chairman of building company Fletcher Group.

He said a shortfall of supply will continue to be a problem because of significant population growth.

"The issue is going to be around appropriate infrastructure, and also land release policies," he told Business PM.

Sir Ralph said prices are frothy but not in a bubble, and he would not be drawn on whether the capital gains tax discount or negative gearing should be changed to arrest rampant investor activity.

"Obviously negative gearing is an issue and that really comes down to government tax policies, but the fundamental issue here is one of demand," he said.

This week one of the country's most senior policy makers, Reserve Bank governor Dr Philip Lowe, sounded a warning on the level of risks building up in the housing market, as borrowers take on more than they can handle in a record low interest rate environment.

"Ongoing increases in indebtedness and rising housing prices" were a "risk to the future health of the Australian economy", Dr Lowe told an event in Melbourne on Tuesday.

"Stretched balance sheets make for more volatility when things turn down."

Dr Lowe also pointed a finger at the banks for writing loans for people who could barely afford them.

"Too many loans are still made where the borrower has the skinniest of income buffers after interest."

Perhaps not surprisingly, Sir Ralph avoided heaping blame on the banks for the risks building up in the housing market.

Instead, he said lenders should be held responsible if they do not account for individual customers' circumstances.

"I'm sure the banks are going to be held accountable if they do have borrowers that can't afford to meet their repayments if they haven't factored in a reasonable buffer."

As for the direction of house prices, he said these types of double digit gains in house prices cannot continue forever and he is anticipating a mild correction, but not a crash.

"Possibly five to 10 per cent [correction in prices]. It depends on the areas. Good locations will generally do better. Less desirable ones will do a little worse."

The major banks' mortgage books account for around 60 per cent of their business, but Sir Ralph said the big lenders are well placed to cope with such a downturn in prices.

"They would weather that quite comfortably. Remember loans over 80 per cent are insured.

"And then you look at the mortgages that have been taken out over the last five to six years and many of those mortgages have very high levels of security margins on them now … because of increases in property values."

Topics: business-economics-and-finance, banking, housing, housing-industry, australia

First posted