Escort convicted in Google exec's OD death ordered deported
Escort convicted in Google exec's OD death ordered deported
Alix Tichelman appearing in a Calif. court on manslaughter and heroin charges after authorities say she injected a Google executive with heroin on his yacht and fled as he overdosed and died                Tweet     Stumble     Email  A California prostitute convicted in the heroin overdose death of a Google executive aboard his yacht has been ordered deported to her native Canada, reports CBS affiliate KION. Kiss of Death and the Google  Exec The mysterious death of a Google executive and his last night with an exotic beauty captured on video -- now a court decides her fate. "48 Hours"... Santa Cruz sheriff’s officials turned over 30-year-old Alix Tichelman to the custody of Department of Homeland Security Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents on the morning she completed her jail sentence and was released on March 29. A Santa Cruz County Superior Court judge in 2015 sentenced Tichelman to five years in prison after she pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and administering drugs. Counting time served before her guilty plea, Tichelman was released after serving about half her sentence, with time off for good behavior. Tichelman is a Canadian citizen with an American green card, reports the San Jose Mercury News. Tichelman reportedly grew up in Georgia and has spent little time in Canada. Thursday, according to KION, an immigration judge ruled that Tichelman’s criminal convictions were grounds for her deportation. She was expected to remain in ICE custody pending final arrangements. In November 2013, Tichelman injected Forrest Timothy Hayes with heroin, then left without seeking help when he passed out on the yacht, authorities say. Hayes had hired Tichelman several times before, and they were doing drugs and having sex the night he died, authorities said. A look inside Forrest Hayes' "Escape" Google executive Forrest Hayes clearly loved his yacht "Escape" and spent a great deal of time and effort to outfit it exactly the way he wanted.... The high-end call girl was arrested eight months after Hayes’ death. “48 Hours” investigated the case in the episode, “Kiss of Death and the Google Exec.” A surveillance video at the Santa Cruz harbor showed Tichelman panicking and attempting to revive Hayes as he slipped into unconsciousness, Santa Cruz Deputy District Attorney Rafael Vazquez said. Later, the video shows her gather her belongings, casually step over Hayes’ body, finish a glass of wine and lower a blind before leaving the yacht the night before the body was discovered. Santa Cruz Sheriff Sgt. Chris Clark said ICE agents appeared at the Northern California jail to detain Tichelman on her release. Clark said sheriff officials declined to honor an ICE request to hold Tichelman for two days after her release date. Clark said this is the 5th time immigration enforcement agents have appeared at the Santa Cruz County jail this year to detain an inmate being released.                Tweet     Stumble     Email

SANTA CRUZ, Calif. -- A California prostitute convicted in the heroin overdose death of a Google executive aboard his yacht has been ordered deported to her native Canada, reports CBS affiliate KION.

Santa Cruz sheriff’s officials turned over 30-year-old Alix Tichelman to the custody of Department of Homeland Security Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents on the morning she completed her jail sentence and was released on March 29.

READ: Who’s to blame in Google exec’s OD death?

A Santa Cruz County Superior Court judge in 2015 sentenced Tichelman to five years in prison after she pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and administering drugs. Counting time served before her guilty plea, Tichelman was released after serving about half her sentence, with time off for good behavior.

Tichelman is a Canadian citizen with an American green card, reports the San Jose Mercury News. Tichelman reportedly grew up in Georgia and has spent little time in Canada.

Thursday, according to KION, an immigration judge ruled that Tichelman’s criminal convictions were grounds for her deportation. She was expected to remain in ICE custody pending final arrangements.

In November 2013, Tichelman injected Forrest Timothy Hayes with heroin, then left without seeking help when he passed out on the yacht, authorities say. Hayes had hired Tichelman several times before, and they were doing drugs and having sex the night he died, authorities said.

The high-end call girl was arrested eight months after Hayes’ death. “48 Hours” investigated the case in the episode, “Kiss of Death and the Google Exec.”

WATCH: “48 Hours:” Kiss of Death and the Google Exec

A surveillance video at the Santa Cruz harbor showed Tichelman panicking and attempting to revive Hayes as he slipped into unconsciousness, Santa Cruz Deputy District Attorney Rafael Vazquez said. Later, the video shows her gather her belongings, casually step over Hayes’ body, finish a glass of wine and lower a blind before leaving the yacht the night before the body was discovered.

Santa Cruz Sheriff Sgt. Chris Clark said ICE agents appeared at the Northern California jail to detain Tichelman on her release. Clark said sheriff officials declined to honor an ICE request to hold Tichelman for two days after her release date. Clark said this is the 5th time immigration enforcement agents have appeared at the Santa Cruz County jail this year to detain an inmate being released.