Plastic Straws Are Destroying Our Environment And Here's Why We Need To Stop Using Them
Plastic Straws Are Destroying Our Environment And Here's Why We Need To Stop Using Them
Plastic Straws Are Destroying Our Environment And Here's Why We Need To Stop Using Them Accumulation of plastic in the environment adversely affects the wildlife as well as the human habitat. Its widespread usage has led to a toxic build-up that is polluting our lands and waters. And since it's slow to degradation, it's high time that we make a conscious effort to resist its use. To that end, an online campaign to #refusethestraw is gaining fast momentum. The aim is to ready people to lead a movement that bans the use of plastic straws. In the USA alone, over 500 million straws are used every day. Because straws are durable and inexpensive, its disposal has created a mass body of waste that's harming the environment. These easy-to-use tools are thrown into a garbage can without further thought. In 2015, this video went viral. Here, marine biologists remove a piece of garbage from a turtle's nose with painstaking efforts. That piece of garbage is a straw. The #refusethestraw campaign urges people to say 'no' to the straw and help make the environment safe again. The refusal can work in three ways. 1. Saying no to straws while ordering drinks. 2. Reaching out to eateries and urging them to provide straws only upon request. 3. Also, encouraging restaurants to make a switch to other options - stainless steel, paper, or glass. The alternative may prove expensive but it would still be cheaper than the price of polluting the world with plastic.

Accumulation of plastic in the environment adversely affects the wildlife as well as the human habitat. Its widespread usage has led to a toxic build-up that is polluting our lands and waters. And since it's slow to degradation, it's high time that we make a conscious effort to resist its use.

To that end, an online campaign to #refusethestraw is gaining fast momentum. The aim is to ready people to lead a movement that bans the use of plastic straws.

In the USA alone, over 500 million straws are used every day. Because straws are durable and inexpensive, its disposal has created a mass body of waste that's harming the environment. These easy-to-use tools are thrown into a garbage can without further thought.

flickr

In 2015, this video went viral. Here, marine biologists remove a piece of garbage from a turtle's nose with painstaking efforts. That piece of garbage is a straw.

The #refusethestraw campaign urges people to say 'no' to the straw and help make the environment safe again. The refusal can work in three ways.

1. Saying no to straws while ordering drinks.

2. Reaching out to eateries and urging them to provide straws only upon request.

3. Also, encouraging restaurants to make a switch to other options - stainless steel, paper, or glass.

The alternative may prove expensive but it would still be cheaper than the price of polluting the world with plastic.

Don't Miss 45.9 K SHARES 62 K SHARES 42.1 K SHARES 25.7 K SHARES 33.7 K SHARES