16 Products That Will Have Your Instagram Account Looking Fire
16 Products For Anyone Who Wants To Be Insta Famous
"I take a lot of photos with groups of friends, and there never seems to be enough light! This case has been a hit. It makes a big difference in low-light situations -- and not just for photos! I use it as a fast alternative to the flashlight app on a regular basis! It definitely makes the phone larger, but not much larger than my big protector case was....So it was worth a bit of extra size." — Tera Leigh  Get it from Amazon for $39.95+ . Available in color 6 colors.                                              "This little light is so awesome! I wasn't so sure it would actually work or that the light would be 'bright' but it ended up exceeding my expectations. It has three brightness levels, and makes your selfies turn out pretty awesome. It clips onto the top of your phone without making any marks or damaging the screen. Plus, it comes with a charging cable so it's easy to keep using every day." — Kaitlin Ram Get it from Amazon for $13.20 .                                              "Best tool for your phone! If you use the camera for either video or stills, this selfie stick does one thing you really don't see in many reviews -- it takes most of the shake out of your content. I love doing videos but the iPhone 6s does not have stabilization and walking videos are exaggerated terribly. This sturdy and well-built stick is great for both front and rear capturing without the shake." — Beemaster Get it from Amazon for $11.99+ .                                              "This Tripod stand is great for the price. I expected it to be flimsy, but the quality is much better than I expected."— Mathurin Family Get it from Amazon for $13.95 .                                              "This lens has officially become my go-to lens. The quality is stunning, the build quality is an easy 10/10, and as far as distortion goes, you really have to look hard to find any. You could never get better quality by adding more hardware and glass to a regular phone camera lens, but this lens kit has me scratching my head. It will have you amazed! I've bought numerous lens kits and this one is by far the best."— Genuine Reviewer Get it from Amazon for $19.99 .                                              "Wow! Amazing results. I thought the price was a bit high, until I used the lenses. Tight threads, very heavy quality feel. Custom storage box as well."— Dennis Roberts Get them from Amazon for $39.99 .                                              "I looked for a reliable, classy-looking Polaroid camera as a wedding reception guest book. After thorough research, I determined Instax was cheaper and just as reliable, if not more than the new Polaroid instant cameras. Both cameras function similarly and use the same film; yet Instax has better reviews and is cheaper. The 8S has a few extra bells and whistles: a clip-on lens for close-up pictures, light/dark and indoor/outdoor settings, the mirror on the front of the camera, and two shutter buttons for either landscape or portrait photographs. Also, the lithium batteries are not hard to find for sale online." — NJKramer Get it from Amazon for $64.99 . Available in 8 colors.                                              Get it from Amazon for $34.99 .                                              Get it from Amazon for $13.99.                                              "This light is a total game changer for my business! My pictures look so much better because of this light! I highly recommend this light if you have to photograph in a business. It came packaged in a case that kept it secure during transit."— Shayna Get it from Amazon for $75.99 .                                              "Perfect! Just what I was looking for. They are made of very thick card stock and I've had them hanging in my classroom for a few weeks and they haven't faded or bent. They look like the first day I got them. I also like the length, it stretches about seven to eight feet with some slack in the middle. Also liked that it came with two strands. The glitter ones are very pretty, blue comes with navy blue, gray, and silver glitter. Great purchase!"— Amazon Customer  Get it from Amazon for $12.99 .                                              "This has become one of my most favorite things I own. The patterns are incredible and the colors are so vibrant and breathtaking. The detail in this tapestry is incredible and the materiel is thick and sturdy. It is light but durable, and was very easy to hang up. It came packaged very neatly and compressed, and had practically no wrinkling."— Amazon Customer  Get it from Popular Handicrafts on Amazon for $11.79+ .                                              Get it from Amazon for $8.87 . Available in 33 colors.                                              "This blows out more air than you expect and I just bought another one for my aunt. Great price, quality. Perfect!"— Amazon Customer Get it from Amazon for $4.99 . Available in 8 colors.                                   "This car mount stays in the exact same mounted spot and hold my phone during a rollover accident I was just in earlier this week. With it being extended out as far as it was and with the weight of my Note 5, I'm impressed to say the least that it didn't break from the whiplash of the impact or fail to hold my phone through it all."— Amazon Customer Get it from Amazon for $19.95 .                                              "A flimsy piece of plastic it is NOT. Featuring a very passable smoky lens, solid buttons and realistic switches, it has both the weight and feel of a genuine camera shell. You will not be squeezing this bad brother in and out of the butt pocket of your skinny jeans. To add to the illusion, it comes with a camera strap, which works great if you don't care to dig into a bag every time you want your phone."— S.S.K. Get it from Amazon for $9.79 .

Promising review: "I take a lot of photos with groups of friends, and there never seems to be enough light! This case has been a hit. It makes a big difference in low-light situations -- and not just for photos! I use it as a fast alternative to the flashlight app on a regular basis! It definitely makes the phone larger, but not much larger than my big protector case was....So it was worth a bit of extra size." —Tera Leigh

Get it from Amazon for $39.95+. Available in color 6 colors.