WA Government ramps up pressure on Perth Mayor Lisa Scaffidi to resign



WA Government ramps up pressure on Perth Mayor Lisa Scaffidi to resign

Updated

The WA Government has stepped up pressure on Perth's Lord Mayor Lisa Scaffidi to resign.

Key points: Lisa Scaffidi's disclosures of travel and gifts are being investigated

Premier Mark McGowan promised to sack Ms Scaffidi before the state election

Local Government Minister David Templeman says the time has come

The call from local Government minister David Templeman came after Premier Mark McGowan wrote to Ms Scaffidi calling on her to make an "honourable decision" and stand down.

Mr Templeman said the time had come: "The West Australian Government renews its call for the Lord Mayor of Perth to resign her position."

"We have lost confidence in the Lord Mayor of Perth — we believe that the interests of the ratepayers, the residents and the businesses that are the city of Perth deserve to be respected," he said.

"We believe it is in the best interests of those people particularly that the Lord Mayor no longer continue in the position that she holds."

This week, the Mayor and two councillors were found to have been in minor breach of local government regulations over a motion moved without notice in October.

While the Premier had promised prior to the state election that he would sack Ms Scaffidi, he has been waiting for a State Administrative Tribunal decision on her disclosures of travel and gifts.

Mr Templeman pointed to earlier reports by the Corruption and Crime Commission and the Department of Local Government.

One of Ms Scaffidi's rivals on council, Jemma Green, has turned to Facebook, renewing her call for the mayor to stand down.

"The City of Perth cannot function without a relationship between the State Government of Western Australia," she wrote.

Mayor standing firm

Ms Scaffidi said she was herself awaiting the outcome of the process, and was not going to stand down or resign.

She said she had done nothing dishonest, and had not been in the job for personal gain.

"I am abiding by the processes that the department of local government asked me to go through; I have done that as graciously as I can," she said.

"If this is the politics that can play out on a person who is abiding by a legal process that they have been asked to go through by his department, then really what does it say for anybody out there who is having to endure a legal process?"

She rejected claims the City of Perth's operations had been affected by the controversies, saying the city was operating "very well".

Ms Scaffidi said she had had no recent conversations with Mr McGowan or Mr Templeman.

"That's fine, that's their decision and they have chosen to play it out through the media, most notably with the leaking of what I thought was a piece of private correspondence between the Lord Mayor and the Premier," she said.

She described Mr McGowan's actions as "very unilateral and highly inappropriate".

The Premier had rejected Ms Scaffidi's request to reconvene a committee designed to elevate Perth's status.

The Mayor said the City of Perth Committee was supposed to be above politics.

Topics: government-and-politics, states-and-territories, local-government, perth-6000, wa, australia

First posted