Japanese scientists plan to drill to Earth's molton mantle
Japanese scientists plan to drill to Earth's molton mantle


Japanese scientists are planning to drill through the Earth's crust to the molten mantle six miles beneath the ocean floor.

Researchers at the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology will start their preliminary studies in September off the coast of Hawaii.

It is hoped that scientists will be able to find out more about how the planet was formed and what the mantle is made of.

Japanese scientists are planning to drill through the Earth's crust to the mantle six miles beneath the ocean floor. Preliminary surveys will be carried out in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Hawaii

JAMSTEC researcher Natsue Abe told CNN: 'We don't know the exact (composition) of the mantle yet. We have only seen some mantle materials.

'The rock is very beautiful, it's kind of a yellowish green.'

Researchers hope drilling will start by 2030 and Ms Abe said she is convinced the project will work.

Drilling could take place off Hawaii, Costa Rica or Mexico.

The Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology will drill through the crust with their deep sea vessel Chikyu. The drilling could be done off Hawaii, Costa Rica or Mexico

The preliminary surveys will be carried out on JAMSTEC's deep sea research ship Kairei.

The vessel can send out sonic waves to analyse the ocean floor and the structure of the Earth's crust.

The drilling will be carried out on JAMSTEC's ship Chikyu, which can bore down three times deeper than similar vessels.

The Japanese government also hope the study will help them understand more about earthquakes, as the country is prone to the natural disasters.

In 2016, there were three earthquakes in Japan, measuring between 6.2 and 7 in magnitude.

It is hoped that the study will also help the government understand more about earthquakes and how to detect them, as Japan is prone to the natural disasters. The mantle makes up 84 per cent of the earth's volume

The earth's mantle makes up 84 per cent of the earth's volume and is 1,802 miles thick.

The temperature of the mantle varies between 1,000 and 3,700 degrees Celsius.

The upper and lower mantle are divided into two areas, the asthenosphere and the lithosphere.