Visa of Palestinian activist Bassem Tamimi revoked hours before travel to Australia



Visa of Palestinian activist Bassem Tamimi revoked hours before travel to Australia

Updated

The Immigration Department has refused to comment on exactly why it blocked the visa of a prominent Palestinian activist, but has argued it has a responsibility to protect the community from abuse or danger.

Bassem Tamimi, 50, had his visa cancelled hours before he was due to travel to Australia, on the grounds his opinions on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict could provoke anger in the community.

He had been given permission to travel to Australia on Tuesday, but the following day the Department of Immigration and Border Protection (DIBP) revoked his visa.

The ABC has obtained official departmental documents explaining the reasons for its decision.

"The department has recently been made aware of information that indicates there is a risk that members of the public will react adversely to Mr Tamimi's presence in Australia regarding his views of the ongoing political tensions in the Middle East," the DIBP stated.

"Therefore, there is a risk that his presence in Australia would or might pose a risk to the good order of the Australian community."

The ABC asked Immigration Minister Peter Dutton about the exact nature of that new information and whether the cancellation was an example of curbing freedom of speech, and the DIBP responded on his behalf.

"The Australian Government supports freedom of speech and freedom of religious and political beliefs," a DIBP spokesman said.

"The exercise of this freedom does involve a responsibility to avoid vilification of, inciting discord in, or representing a danger to, the Australian community.

"For privacy reasons, the department is unable to comment on specific details of individuals."

Visa cancellation 'censorship', supporters say

In 2012, Mr Tamimi was jailed by Israeli authorities for his role in protests against Jewish settlements in the West Bank.

The activist's supporters have described the revocation of his visa as "censorship", and cited comments by the European Union's chief spokesperson on foreign affairs and security policy in 2012 as evidence of his good character.

"The EU considers Bassem Tamimi to be a 'human rights defender' committed to non-violent protest against the expansion of an Israeli settlement on lands belonging to his West Bank village of Nabi Saleh," EU Commission vice president Catherine Ashton said.

Mr Tamimi had been invited to Australia for a speaking tour by the Palestine Action Group in Sydney, the Friends of Palestine in Perth and the Socialist Alternative's Marxism Conference in Melbourne.

He has previously lobbied for an "intifada" against Israel during speaking tours in the United States.

Topics: activism-and-lobbying, government-and-politics, immigration, federal-government, unrest-conflict-and-war, australia, palestinian-territory-occupied

First posted