The Casey Anthony trial is dissected again in a new documentary this weekend. But why?

In July 2011, a jury in Florida acquitted 25-year-old Casey Anthony of murder, aggravated child abuse and aggravated manslaughter after the death of her toddler daughter, Caylee. The verdict, which garnered worldwide media attention, stunned the majority of observers who believed Anthony was guilty. “Tot Mom will be walking free!” Nancy Grace raged on her cable news program that afternoon. “The devil is dancing tonight.” It was a captivating case, but it also ended nearly six years ago, and has already been repeatedly dissected. So why is Investigation Discovery (ID) airing a three-part docu-series starting Sunday night called “Casey Anthony: An American Murder Story”? Well, you can thank FX’s “The People v. O.J. Simpson.” Or ESPN’s “O.J.: Made in America.” Or the multiple JonBenét Ramsey documentaries last year. Or even “Serial” and Netflix’s “Making a Murderer.” The American public truly has an endless appetite for true crime, particularly situations with no real answers.   “We’ve seen a resurgence of interest in some of these iconic cases and trials — from O.J. Simpson to JonBenét Ramsey and now Casey Anthony. The common thread in each of the stories ID is telling is that these are unsolved cases — no one was convicted in any of these crimes,” Henry Schleiff, president of Investigation Discovery, Destination America and American Heroes Channel, told The Post. “It’s shocking that we don’t have closure on how and why Caylee Anthony was killed.” It also helps that 2016’s “JonBenet: An American Murder Mystery” was Investigation Discovery’s No. 1 event series of last year, proving the audiences are eager to see an old case analyzed over and over. Investigation Discovery has multiple stories in its “American Murder Mystery” franchise that will air in 2017. Anthony’s “story possesses so many dramatic and tragic elements — an innocent victim, a worried family, and a potentially villainous mother who was tried in both the court and the court of public opinion,” Schleiff said. “Now, with the benefit of time, our viewers want to understand what happened and uncover the truth.” The first episode, airing Sunday at 10 p.m. (the other two air Monday and Tuesday night), rehashes the origins of the case, as producers interview Anthony’s parents, police involved in the investigation and crime reporters. It’s a helpful gist of the facts for anyone who doesn’t remember how the case started: Police get a call from Anthony’s mother about a stolen car, but when they go to the Anthony residence, it’s revealed that Anthony’s daughter, Caylee, has been missing for a month. Viewers with a passing knowledge of the trial might remember some names that come up, like “Zanny the Nanny,” or Zenaida Gonzales, the babysitter who Anthony initially insists was the last person that she saw with Caylee. The docu-series uses reenactments to show various scenes, such as when Anthony tells police she dropped Caylee off at Zenaida’s apartment before going to her job at Universal Studios — and it’s revealed that no one named Zenaida lives in that apartment, nor is Anthony employed at Universal Studios. Police eventually realize that Anthony lied, and she’s arrested and charged with child neglect. Then, as investigators discover more details (the trunk of Anthony’s car smelled like decomposition, with evidence pointing to remains of a dead body), she’s charged with killing Caylee; Anthony insists she has no idea what happened to her daughter. The episode concludes as a utility worker finds a human skull in the woods that looks consistent with a small child, and the narrator promises that the show will “expose new, behind-the-scenes revelations” in the next two installments. One of the more telling parts of the documentary is a look at how the trial explodes into a media sensation, especially when people are shocked at Anthony’s “callous” attitude while talking about her missing daughter. And even though the case started nearly a decade ago, Investigation Discovery is banking on the fact that people will be just as interested now — and in all likelihood, they’re right. ‘Serial’: An investigative journalism podcast becomes a cultural obsession Where do the cases at the center of Netflix’s ‘Making a Murderer’ stand now? ESPN’s ‘O.J.: Made in America’ was nominated for a best documentary Oscar, and yes, that’s allowed



Casey Anthony appears in court during her trial at the Orange County Courthouse in Orlando. The Florida woman was acquitted in 2011 after standing trial in the death of her toddler daughter, Caylee. (Red Huber/Orlando Sentinel via AP)

In July 2011, a jury in Florida acquitted 25-year-old Casey Anthony of murder, aggravated child abuse and aggravated manslaughter after the death of her toddler daughter, Caylee. The verdict, which garnered worldwide media attention, stunned the majority of observers who believed Anthony was guilty. “Tot Mom will be walking free!” Nancy Grace raged on her cable news program that afternoon. “The devil is dancing tonight.”

It was a captivating case, but it also ended nearly six years ago, and has already been repeatedly dissected. So why is Investigation Discovery (ID) airing a three-part docu-series starting Sunday night called “Casey Anthony: An American Murder Story”?

Well, you can thank FX’s “The People v. O.J. Simpson.” Or ESPN’s “O.J.: Made in America.” Or the multiple JonBenét Ramsey documentaries last year. Or even “Serial” and Netflix’s “Making a Murderer.” The American public truly has an endless appetite for true crime, particularly situations with no real answers.

[How listening to ‘Serial’ made us doubt ‘Making a Murderer’]

“We’ve seen a resurgence of interest in some of these iconic cases and trials — from O.J. Simpson to JonBenét Ramsey and now Casey Anthony. The common thread in each of the stories ID is telling is that these are unsolved cases — no one was convicted in any of these crimes,” Henry Schleiff, president of Investigation Discovery, Destination America and American Heroes Channel, told The Post. “It’s shocking that we don’t have closure on how and why Caylee Anthony was killed.”

It also helps that 2016’s “JonBenet: An American Murder Mystery” was Investigation Discovery’s No. 1 event series of last year, proving the audiences are eager to see an old case analyzed over and over. Investigation Discovery has multiple stories in its “American Murder Mystery” franchise that will air in 2017.



Casey Anthony reacts to being found not guilty on murder charges as she stands next to her attorney Jose Baez in July 2011. (Pool photo by Red Huber/Getty Images)

Anthony’s “story possesses so many dramatic and tragic elements — an innocent victim, a worried family, and a potentially villainous mother who was tried in both the court and the court of public opinion,” Schleiff said. “Now, with the benefit of time, our viewers want to understand what happened and uncover the truth.”

The first episode, airing Sunday at 10 p.m. (the other two air Monday and Tuesday night), rehashes the origins of the case, as producers interview Anthony’s parents, police involved in the investigation and crime reporters. It’s a helpful gist of the facts for anyone who doesn’t remember how the case started: Police get a call from Anthony’s mother about a stolen car, but when they go to the Anthony residence, it’s revealed that Anthony’s daughter, Caylee, has been missing for a month.

Viewers with a passing knowledge of the trial might remember some names that come up, like “Zanny the Nanny,” or Zenaida Gonzales, the babysitter who Anthony initially insists was the last person that she saw with Caylee. The docu-series uses reenactments to show various scenes, such as when Anthony tells police she dropped Caylee off at Zenaida’s apartment before going to her job at Universal Studios — and it’s revealed that no one named Zenaida lives in that apartment, nor is Anthony employed at Universal Studios.

Police eventually realize that Anthony lied, and she’s arrested and charged with child neglect. Then, as investigators discover more details (the trunk of Anthony’s car smelled like decomposition, with evidence pointing to remains of a dead body), she’s charged with killing Caylee; Anthony insists she has no idea what happened to her daughter. The episode concludes as a utility worker finds a human skull in the woods that looks consistent with a small child, and the narrator promises that the show will “expose new, behind-the-scenes revelations” in the next two installments.

One of the more telling parts of the documentary is a look at how the trial explodes into a media sensation, especially when people are shocked at Anthony’s “callous” attitude while talking about her missing daughter. And even though the case started nearly a decade ago, Investigation Discovery is banking on the fact that people will be just as interested now — and in all likelihood, they’re right.

Read more:

‘Serial’: An investigative journalism podcast becomes a cultural obsession

Where do the cases at the center of Netflix’s ‘Making a Murderer’ stand now?

ESPN’s ‘O.J.: Made in America’ was nominated for a best documentary Oscar, and yes, that’s allowed