This guy went on a holiday with a group of total strangers for the greatest reason
This guy went on a holiday with a group of total strangers for the greatest reason
Instead of having to look at one empty seat all week, the group of friends decided to take matters into their own hands, and find a new Joe McGrath to take with them. One of the group messaged some Joe McGraths on Facebook. He wrote: Would you consider coming on holiday with a group of nine strangers if they had already arranged flights for you and an all inclusive hotel? It’s our friend Nathan’s 30 birthday and we decided to throw him a surprise holiday break in Mallorca. They asked 15 namesakes, but only this one said yes: @GRALambo They asked 15 Joe McGraths and I was the only mad enough Joe to say yes!!!  So this happened pic.twitter.com/99MQXdZVyw  McGrath wrote on Facebook that he doubted the legitimacy of the offer at first. He wrote: Although I had my doubt if the offer was legit, I decided to take the plunge as my legendary boss gave me the time off work. I drove down to Bristol on Saturday night and had a mad three days with complete strangers that I think I can all my good friends. What a mega group of people! I loved every minute of it. I want to apologise to my mum who thought I knew these people all along.   @o0alchemist0o  pic.twitter.com/2siIDzXBBv — Joe McGrath (@joemcgrath95) April 6, 2017  @BrookeLVincent Made my year!! I've got myself ten new best mates  When Joe McGrath couldn't go on holiday - his friends went in search of a stranger with the same name... 💼🍻⛱✈ https://t.co/Stb7rEVfhn  pic.twitter.com/69sMWwErad                     Keep scrolling for next article

For Nathan’s birthday, nine of his friends planned a trip to Majorca. But unfortunately one of them, Joe McGrath, bailed.

Instead of having to look at one empty seat all week, the group of friends decided to take matters into their own hands, and find a new Joe McGrath to take with them.

One of the group messaged some Joe McGraths on Facebook.

He wrote:

Would you consider coming on holiday with a group of nine strangers if they had already arranged flights for you and an all inclusive hotel? It’s our friend Nathan’s 30th birthday and we decided to throw him a surprise holiday break in Mallorca.

They asked 15 namesakes, but only this one said yes:

@GRALambo They asked 15 Joe McGraths and I was the only mad enough Joe to say yes!!! — Joe McGrath (@joemcgrath95) April 7, 2017

So this happened pic.twitter.com/99MQXdZVyw — Joe McGrath (@joemcgrath95) April 5, 2017

McGrath wrote on Facebook that he doubted the legitimacy of the offer at first.

He wrote:

Although I had my doubt if the offer was legit, I decided to take the plunge as my legendary boss gave me the time off work. I drove down to Bristol on Saturday night and had a mad three days with complete strangers that I think I can all my good friends. What a mega group of people! I loved every minute of it. I want to apologise to my mum who thought I knew these people all along.

It looks like he had a great time:

@BrookeLVincent Made my year!! I've got myself ten new best mates — Joe McGrath (@joemcgrath95) April 5, 2017

Here's McGrath, the new one, talking about the holiday:

When Joe McGrath couldn't go on holiday - his friends went in search of a stranger with the same name... 💼🍻⛱✈ https://t.co/Stb7rEVfhn pic.twitter.com/69sMWwErad — BBC North West (@BBCNWT) April 7, 2017

Oh yeah, and happy birthday, Nathan. Hope your thunder wasn't stolen too much.

And original Joe, well, you missed out.

More: This teen invited an older lady to join her friends because she missed going out with her friends