Here's What Keeps Mumbai's Seashore So Much Polluted All The Time
Here's What Keeps Mumbai's Seashore So Much Polluted All The Time
Here's What Keeps Mumbai's Seashore So Much Polluted All The Time While Mumbai has quite the picturesque shoreline that attracts hundreds of thousands of tourists, it has inevitably fallen victim to the process of urbanisation. A recent study by researchers from the Alfred Wegener Institute (AWI), Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research in Germany have collected and listed a significant amount of data on marine litter and will called the study ‘Litter Base’. In the study, Mumbai has been listed to have one of the most polluted sea shores in the world. The database shows an embarrassing amount of microplastics found in the beaches with 68.83 items per square meter at four beaches – Juhu, Versova, Dadar and Aksa ranging in size from 1m to 5m. The highest amount of microplastics were found at Juhu beach (55.33%), followed by Versova (28.8%), Dadar (18.6%) and Aksa (7.9%) Mumbai is made of seven islands, and is majorly surrounded by water. While the natural drainage system has helped the city up until last decade, the city is in dire need of a systematic drainage system. While the pumping stations at various points in the city are a relief, it becomes a tedious task to wade our way through the water to work in the monsoons. One of the major reasons why people end up disliking Mumbai is the hygiene. In spite of the government launching campaigns to keep streets clean, citizens and tourists end up dumping trash and even worse, the plastic bags everywhere. What goes in the drains comes back in monsoons, making it living in Mumbai a task. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) mulled improving the sewage treatment in the city for a long time. But with increasing population, the untreated sewage matter has led to an ecological threat. This has endangered the mangroves around the city, which the city once took pride in having. “BMC is supplying water about 3,750 million litres per day to the city. About 2,000 million litres of that water comes out of sewage system, which is what we are focusing on developing now,” - Ajoy Mehta, BMC Municipal Commissioner. Being a melting pot of cultures from all over the country, Mumbai has the best kind of celebration of every festival. Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri and few other festivals require immersions of deities as a cultural norm and rituals. The idols of these deities need to be more eco-friendly, and this has been said out loud by every activist and civic authorities alike. This is the time when maximum pollution takes place - be it debris or plastic or waste food - festivals are the times when the beauty of beaches gets ruefully murdered.

While Mumbai has quite the picturesque shoreline that attracts hundreds of thousands of tourists, it has inevitably fallen victim to the process of urbanisation. A recent study by researchers from the Alfred Wegener Institute (AWI), Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research in Germany have collected and listed a significant amount of data on marine litter and will called the study ‘Litter Base’.

In the study, Mumbai has been listed to have one of the most polluted sea shores in the world.

BCCL

The database shows an embarrassing amount of microplastics found in the beaches with 68.83 items per square meter at four beaches – Juhu, Versova, Dadar and Aksa ranging in size from 1m to 5m. The highest amount of microplastics were found at Juhu beach (55.33%), followed by Versova (28.8%), Dadar (18.6%) and Aksa (7.9%)

Here are reasons how we have reached the height of global pollution:

1. Lack of proper drainage: Mumbai is made of seven islands, and is majorly surrounded by water. While the natural drainage system has helped the city up until last decade, the city is in dire need of a systematic drainage system. While the pumping stations at various points in the city are a relief, it becomes a tedious task to wade our way through the water to work in the monsoons.

2. No awareness: One of the major reasons why people end up disliking Mumbai is the hygiene. In spite of the government launching campaigns to keep streets clean, citizens and tourists end up dumping trash and even worse, the plastic bags everywhere. What goes in the drains comes back in monsoons, making it living in Mumbai a task.

The ideal seashore : BCCL

3. Sewage treatment: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) mulled improving the sewage treatment in the city for a long time. But with increasing population, the untreated sewage matter has led to an ecological threat. This has endangered the mangroves around the city, which the city once took pride in having.

“BMC is supplying water about 3,750 million litres per day to the city. About 2,000 million litres of that water comes out of sewage system, which is what we are focusing on developing now,” - Ajoy Mehta, BMC Municipal Commissioner.

What the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is doing:

BMC Chief Ajoy Mehta spoke to Indiatimes, and said that while the BMC is aware of the threat that looms over the shoreline of the city becoming excessively polluted, the civic body is taking its measures to find a solution to this.

“BMC is supplying water about 3,750 million litres per day to the city. About 2,000 million litres of that water comes out of sewage system, which is what we are focusing on right developing now,” Mehta said.

1. Eco-Friendly festivals: Being a melting pot of cultures from all over the country, Mumbai has the best kind of celebration of every festival. Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri and few other festivals require immersions of deities as a cultural norm and rituals.

The idols of these deities need to be more eco-friendly, and this has been said out loud by every activist and civic authorities alike. This is the time when maximum pollution takes place - be it debris or plastic or waste food - festivals are the times when the beauty of beaches gets ruefully murdered.

Don't Miss 1.5 K SHARES 65.2 K SHARES 42.2 K SHARES 26 K SHARES

BCCL

2. Sewage Treatment Plants: Setting these up in the best condition is one of the major solutions that the city can have. “There is one sewage treatment plant at Colaba that we have worked on most recently. The ones at Worli, Bandra, Ghatkopar, Malad should start in the next few years. By the next 3-4 years, we should effectively be able to treat the water for non-potable use, thus reducing the sewage going into the sea.

3. Educating people: Not only the civic body but also the government has been trying to educate the people to say no to plastic bags. This needs to be tackled more effectively by the citizens as well as the BMC to be able to have a better shoreline and have healthier mangroves around the city. Banning was an option for the BMC, but this step requires an effective participation from the people as well.

4. Getting better drainage system: There are numerous pumping stations in Mumbai that help to get the water out of the city. However, due to floods every year, new pumping stations were recently inaugurated by the BMC.