On Resilience: How This YouTube Star Triumphed Over Crippling Anxiety To Garner More Than 100M Views
On Resilience: How This YouTube Star Triumphed Over Crippling Anxiety To Garner More Than 100M Views
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ally Bogard and Allie Hoffman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Photo courtesy of Taryn Southern and edited by Kendrick Daye Photo courtesy of Taryn Southern and edited by Kendrick Daye In my mind, that was the end of my performing career. In 2007, it was pretty unheard of for traditional entertainers to release content online or have conversations with their fans. Dane Cook and my friend Jessica Rose (Lonelygirl15) were two of the first – I think. Now, almost every celebrity is on Instagram, Twitter, Youtube, or some platform. But at the time, being online was unknown territory – so launching a career on YouTube was pretty risky. I remember feeling really afraid of strangers telling me I wasn’t good enough to be a serious musician. I thought of myself as an American Idol reject, so I thought, why shouldn’t everyone else? To avoid the critiques on my abilities, I decided my entry point was musical comedy.  Now I look back on my comedy songs and I'm like, "Wow, I had a lot of balls for a 22 year old!” I was terrified to get up on stage, but in terms of the content I wrote, I was pretty fearless. It sure was fun though. As I’ve evolved as a creator, I’ve since taken a lot of those videos down. As a creator, I’m generally excited to continue exploring creative opportunities in this new space, and as a science/technology activist I want to help democratize the creation process and empower more young people and women to pursue careers in STEM. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Photo courtesy of Taryn Southern and edited by Kendrick Daye

Taryn Southern is one of the world’s most pioneering and dynamic content creators. Back in 2007, she posted her first YouTube video; she has since produced more than 2000 videos that have collectively garnered over 100M views. With an audience of 500,000 subscribers, her channel has brought her numerous other opportunities on top 20 radio and in television and film.

All of this was born from crippling anxiety. As a 17-year-old American Idol finalist, she forgot her song lyrics – in front of millions watching at home.

Too afraid to perform in front of live audiences, she turned to YouTube, where she proceeded to build a media empire from the safety of her home. Today, she’s at the vanguard of a new media revolution: VR. She’s also focused on storytelling that makes science and technology more accessible to young people and women.

In this interview, Southern describes how she came back from the darkness of a major setback to find unique success and rise up stronger than she could have ever dreamed possible. We hope she inspires you, as she does us.

---

Allie Hoffman and Ally Bogard: What have you triumphed over?

Taryn Southern: Growing up, I always had severe performance anxiety. I never understood how some kids could just confidently get up and sing in front of other kids or teachers or the parents. I was terrified to perform in front of people, but I had this burning passion for music.

I started taking acting classes around age seven, and I remember going to class with my monologue, feeling like I was going to throw up. Even safe environments felt gut-wrenching to overcome.

I had numerous stage performances when I was ten, eleven, twelve where I would forget my lyrics or have the understudy take the stage because of my stagefright. At my sixth grade talent show, halfway through “Part of Your World” from Little Mermaid – my anxiety got the best of me, and I forgot the rest of the song. I didn’t even know what to do with myself. Despite the ongoing battle with anxiety, I was obsessed with overcoming it.

When I was 17, I tried out for American Idol. I was in L.A. for the summer studying acting at UCLA, and I had a friend drive me to Pasadena Rose Bowl. Despite my terrible nerves, I was the first contestant to get the yes from Simon, Paula, and Randy to enter the Hollywood round. Now in my second month of my freshman year at University of Miami, and forced to stay secret about why I needed a leave of absence from school, my anxiety grew worse.

Two rounds into the Hollywood round, I found myself in the hospital with stomach ulcers. The producers waited for me to be treated and then released me back to the judges, just in time to compete.

I stood up on stage and my worst nightmare came true – I forgot all the lyrics to the song I had learned the night before... on national television.

In my mind, that was the end of my performing career.

I went back to college and decided to study anthropology, mixed media and pursue documentary work. Oddly enough, this path ended up bringing me back out to L.A. and right back into performing.

By the time I graduated, YouTube had just launched. I immediately saw the opportunity it granted to be seen, without gatekeepers or people in the room. It was revolutionary.

So I started making videos. I started just by singing in my bedroom with the lens of the camera as my sole audience member. I then taught myself recording, editing, and producing. I went from singing karaoke tunes to producing full length music videos.

And that's how I essentially got back into performing and started to actually beat the stage fright that had been crippling me for years.

I still have the anxiety. It's just not nearly as crippling as it used to be.

Hoffman and Bogard: What would you say is the most adventurous or riskiest thing you've ever done professionally?

Southern: Probably making comedy videos on YouTube.

In 2007, it was pretty unheard of for traditional entertainers to release content online or have conversations with their fans. Dane Cook and my friend Jessica Rose (Lonelygirl15) were two of the first – I think. Now, almost every celebrity is on Instagram, Twitter, Youtube, or some platform. But at the time, being online was unknown territory – so launching a career on YouTube was pretty risky.

It wasn’t taken seriously by traditional media gatekeepers, and as a creator, you had to be okay opening yourself up to anonymous commentary from people you didn’t know.

I remember feeling really afraid of strangers telling me I wasn’t good enough to be a serious musician. I thought of myself as an American Idol reject, so I thought, why shouldn’t everyone else? To avoid the critiques on my abilities, I decided my entry point was musical comedy. Now I look back on my comedy songs and I'm like, "Wow, I had a lot of balls for a 22 year old!” I was terrified to get up on stage, but in terms of the content I wrote, I was pretty fearless. It sure was fun though. As I’ve evolved as a creator, I’ve since taken a lot of those videos down.

Hoffman and Bogard: If you could go into the mainframe and turn off one human trait or emotion or quality that least serves you professionally at this point, what would it be?

Southern: Self-chatter. For a really long time, I was consumed by fears about what other people thought of me, always worried about offending or upsetting someone or embarrassing myself. The fears felt so real, I gave them a name – “Mr. Scary.” In many ways, my decision to pursue a career on YouTube was almost an act of defiance this voice that gave power to my insecurities.

I've now been meditating for the last three years which has been remarkably helpful. Now Mr. Scary doesn’t come around as often. Or ya know, I just tell him to get the hell out.

Hoffman and Bogard: What is your bag? Your big hairy audacious goal?

Southern: Being on YouTube early on, I was able to witness first-hand how it made content creation accessible to the masses and dismantled the traditional media system. Now anyone has the ability to tell a story – that’s so powerful!

Now we’re seeing the beginning of what’s possible with VR, AR and machine learning, and how we can use technology to turn storytelling into transformative experiences.

This past year, I produced several experimental 360 VR pieces, as well as brought VR headsets into hospitals, senior homes, and homeless shelters. I’ve also been hosting dinners that bring scientists, storytellers and entrepreneurs together, and I'm currently developing a few projects that have resulted from these collaborative conversations.

As a creator, I’m generally excited to continue exploring creative opportunities in this new space, and as a science/technology activist I want to help democratize the creation process and empower more young people and women to pursue careers in STEM.

Hoffman and Bogard: What would be the life lesson you most hope to pass onto someone you mentor?

Southern: That nothing is fixed, including your internal state. Just like my anxiety. I wish I’d picked up these tools earlier, because I used to think the key to success was weathering storms. But if you can actually change how you feel in the storm, you really can do anything you set your mind to. And that's really cool.