US 'prepared to do more' in Syria if chemical weapons used again
US 'prepared to do more' in Syria if chemical weapons used again
Shares               After launching air strikes against a Syrian air base on Thursday, the U.S. indicated that while it had no plans for any further escalation against the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, it could not be totally ruled out either. "We are prepared to do more, but we hope that will not be necessary," Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the U.N., said during an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting on Friday. "The United States will not stand by when chemical weapons are used. It is in our vital national security interest to prevent the spread and use of chemical weapons." U.S. lawmakers, even those who supported the U.S. strikes, were unsure what the Trump administration might do next to follow up its policy. “We don’t have the benefit of a larger strategy, for the same reason that I think the previous administration had difficulty coming up with a strategy, because it’s very, very complicated,” Sen. John Cornyn , the second-highest ranking Republican in the Senate, said Friday after a meeting with the Chair of Joint Chiefs of Staff.       "It was fuzzy in terms of where do we go from here," added Rep. Eliot Engel , D-N.Y., the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Essentially, the vice president's going to be contacting Congress within the next few days, give us an indication of where their heads are at [in the White House]." Assad's office said in a statement Friday that the U.S. "naively followed a false and lying propaganda campaign" that led it to "carry out this irresponsible recklessness." While the Syrian air base targeted by the U.S. strike incurred heavy damage, two Syrian jets were nonetheless able to take off Friday from the location to carry out strikes on areas under ISIS control in the countryside of eastern Homs, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The Syrian government responded to Thursday night's U.S. strike on its Shaayrat air base by quickly fixing the base and allowing the two planes to take off from there, the human rights organization said. A U.S. official said Syrian planes took off from the base Friday but did not confirm the actions subsequently taken. Meanwhile, Haley and other Trump administration officials like Secretary of State Rex Tillerson have blasted Russia for its military support of the Syrian government, and called on Moscow to change its calculus after the U.S. strikes. Tillerson is slated to travel to Moscow next week for meetings with Russian officials. "The world is waiting for the Russian government to act responsibly in Syria," Haley said Friday. "The world is waiting for Russia to reconsider its misplaced alliance with Bashar Assad." Yet there was little evidence that any change was coming.     Speaking at the same U.N. Security Council session, Russia's deputy U.N. envoy offered a scathing rejoinder to the U.S. actions. "We strongly condemn the illegitimate actions by the U.S.," said Vladimir Safronkov. "The consequences of this for regional and international stability could be extremely serious." According to The Associated Press, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani on Saturday called for an international fact-finding mission to determine the causes of the Tuesday's chemical attack that killed 87 Syrian civilians, which was the stated reason for the U.S. decision to strike the Syrian air base on Thursday.  Iran and Russia have been the Assad government's primary national backers during the six-year old Syrian civil war . Meanwhile, many U.S. allies registered support for Thursday's military action. The Saudi Press Agency on Saturday said that Saudi King Salman called President Trump on Friday to express his support for the U.S. attack, which he called a "courageous decision." Turkey indicated on Saturday it hoped the Trump administration would do more. Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu called the attack a "cosmetic intervention" unless Assad is forced from power.  Shares                  US 'prepared to do more' in Syria if chemical weapons used again   Warplanes strike Syrian town where chemical attack killed dozens, activists say   Obama aides push back against criticism of inaction on Syria   Man journeys from living under a bridge to Boston Marathon   Joining high court, the real Neil Gorsuch set to stand up   Trump: 'Only time will tell' on improving US-China trade   Could Rikers Island spell relief for busy LaGuardia Airport?   Housing options help autistic adults find independence   Republicans hope Trump amenable to food stamp restrictions   Mandated police reform could make Baltimore 'less safe,' AG says   California governor declares historic drought over for now   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Trudeau to mark 100 years of Vimy battle that defined Canada   Tales from the border: 2 weeks along the US-Mexico frontier   Seattle mayor denies sex abuse claims - 'simply not true'   Dalai Lama says it's for people to decide fate of his office   FBI, Homeland Security consider possible retaliations following Syria strike   Myanmar ferry capsizes; 20 dead, over a dozen missing   4 dead after plane crashes while approaching Oregon airport   Police respond to gun threat at high school in west Indiana   NCIS: 27 suspected of 'criminal activity' in nude photos of female Marines   Hawaiian officials fear infections of rare parasitic worm will increase   FBI searching for gun-store robbery suspect who sent manifesto to Trump   Suspect in Stockholm attack identified as Uzbekistan-born man: Police   Athletes, fans honor Stockholm truck attack victims   Deliberations begin in ex-NFL star's double-murder trial   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt

After launching air strikes against a Syrian air base on Thursday, the U.S. indicated that while it had no plans for any further escalation against the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, it could not be totally ruled out either.

"We are prepared to do more, but we hope that will not be necessary," Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the U.N., said during an emergency U.N. Security Council meeting on Friday. "The United States will not stand by when chemical weapons are used. It is in our vital national security interest to prevent the spread and use of chemical weapons."

U.S. lawmakers, even those who supported the U.S. strikes, were unsure what the Trump administration might do next to follow up its policy.

“We don’t have the benefit of a larger strategy, for the same reason that I think the previous administration had difficulty coming up with a strategy, because it’s very, very complicated,” Sen. John Cornyn, the second-highest ranking Republican in the Senate, said Friday after a meeting with the Chair of Joint Chiefs of Staff.

"It was fuzzy in terms of where do we go from here," added Rep. Eliot Engel, D-N.Y., the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Essentially, the vice president's going to be contacting Congress within the next few days, give us an indication of where their heads are at [in the White House]."

Assad's office said in a statement Friday that the U.S. "naively followed a false and lying propaganda campaign" that led it to "carry out this irresponsible recklessness."

While the Syrian air base targeted by the U.S. strike incurred heavy damage, two Syrian jets were nonetheless able to take off Friday from the location to carry out strikes on areas under ISIS control in the countryside of eastern Homs, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

The Syrian government responded to Thursday night's U.S. strike on its Shaayrat air base by quickly fixing the base and allowing the two planes to take off from there, the human rights organization said.

A U.S. official said Syrian planes took off from the base Friday but did not confirm the actions subsequently taken.

Meanwhile, Haley and other Trump administration officials like Secretary of State Rex Tillerson have blasted Russia for its military support of the Syrian government, and called on Moscow to change its calculus after the U.S. strikes.

Tillerson is slated to travel to Moscow next week for meetings with Russian officials.

"The world is waiting for the Russian government to act responsibly in Syria," Haley said Friday. "The world is waiting for Russia to reconsider its misplaced alliance with Bashar Assad."

Yet there was little evidence that any change was coming.

Courtesy 2017 DigitalGlobe

Courtesy 2017 DigitalGlobe

Speaking at the same U.N. Security Council session, Russia's deputy U.N. envoy offered a scathing rejoinder to the U.S. actions.

"We strongly condemn the illegitimate actions by the U.S.," said Vladimir Safronkov. "The consequences of this for regional and international stability could be extremely serious."

According to The Associated Press, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani on Saturday called for an international fact-finding mission to determine the causes of the Tuesday's chemical attack that killed 87 Syrian civilians, which was the stated reason for the U.S. decision to strike the Syrian air base on Thursday.

Iran and Russia have been the Assad government's primary national backers during the six-year old Syrian civil war.

Meanwhile, many U.S. allies registered support for Thursday's military action.

The Saudi Press Agency on Saturday said that Saudi King Salman called President Trump on Friday to express his support for the U.S. attack, which he called a "courageous decision."

Turkey indicated on Saturday it hoped the Trump administration would do more.

Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu called the attack a "cosmetic intervention" unless Assad is forced from power.

ABC News' Mary Bruce and The Associated Press contributed to this report.