Thane Call Centre Scam Mastermind Arrested, After Air India, FIA Lifts Ban On Gaikwad And Other Must Reads
Thane Call Centre Scam Mastermind Arrested, FIA Lifts Ban On Gaikwad And Other Must Reads
Thane Call Centre Scam Mastermind Arrested, After Air India, FIA Lifts Ban On Gaikwad And Other Must Reads Sagar Thakkar alias 'Shaggy', the alleged mastermind of the Internal Revenue Service call centre scam in which thousands of Americans were defrauded to the tune of USD 300 million, has been arrested by Thane Police. According to Thane Police officials, Sagar, who was on the run since the unearthing of the scam last year, was placed under arrest late last night after he arrived at the Mumbai airport following his deportation from Dubai. Read more 1. After Air India, Federation Of Indian Airlines Too Revokes Ban On Shiv Sena MP The Federation of Indian Airlines (FIA), comprising four leading private carriers, today revoked the flying ban imposed on Shiv Sena lawmaker Ravindra Gaikwad. Jet Airways, SpiceJet, GoAir and IndiGo make up the grouping whose decision came a day after Air India lifted the flying ban imposed on the Lok Sabha member. Read more 2. Indian Man Who Went To US Just 25 Days Ago Shot Dead By Masked Robbers External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj confirmed that the ministry has received information regarding a shootout incident Washington state which resulted in the death of an Indian citizen. 26-year-old Vikram Jaryal, was shot dead allegedly by two masked armed robbers at AM-PM Gas Station in Yakima city, where he was working a clerk. According to reports Jaryal was behind the counter when the incident happened. Read more 3. Haryana Makes Improvement In Sex Ratio, For The First Time In History There Are 950 Girls For Every 1,000 Boys For the first time in the history of Haryana, the sex ratio in the state has touched the 950 mark, state Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said.

Sagar Thakkar alias 'Shaggy', the alleged mastermind of the Internal Revenue Service call centre scam in which thousands of Americans were defrauded to the tune of USD 300 million, has been arrested by Thane Police.

According to Thane Police officials, Sagar, who was on the run since the unearthing of the scam last year, was placed under arrest late last night after he arrived at the Mumbai airport following his deportation from Dubai. Read more

1. After Air India, Federation Of Indian Airlines Too Revokes Ban On Shiv Sena MP

The Federation of Indian Airlines (FIA), comprising four leading private carriers, today revoked the flying ban imposed on Shiv Sena lawmaker Ravindra Gaikwad.

Jet Airways, SpiceJet, GoAir and IndiGo make up the grouping whose decision came a day after Air India lifted the flying ban imposed on the Lok Sabha member. Read more

2. Indian Man Who Went To US Just 25 Days Ago Shot Dead By Masked Robbers

External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj confirmed that the ministry has received information regarding a shootout incident Washington state which resulted in the death of an Indian citizen.

26-year-old Vikram Jaryal, was shot dead allegedly by two masked armed robbers at AM-PM Gas Station in Yakima city, where he was working a clerk. According to reports Jaryal was behind the counter when the incident happened. Read more

3. Haryana Makes Improvement In Sex Ratio, For The First Time In History There Are 950 Girls For Every 1,000 Boys

For the first time in the history of Haryana, the sex ratio in the state has touched the 950 mark, state Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said.

Don't Miss 1.3 K SHARES 73 K SHARES 42.7 K SHARES 27.3 K SHARES

Khattar said the sex ratio at birth stood at 950 girls to 1,000 boys in March this year, for the first time in the history of the state. Read more

4. It Turns Out That 'Mowgli Girl' Wasn't Raised By Monkeys, She Was Abandoned By Parents For Being Mentally Ill

The curious case of an 8-year-old girl who was said to be rescued by Forest officials from Katarniyaghat wildlife sanctuary in January has taken a dramatic new twist. Officials now has rejected earlier reports that the girl was rescued from a troop of monkeys.

They said, the girl who has been named Vana Durga had mental issues and was possibly abandoned by her parents for the same reason. Read more

5. Chief Justice Wants To Hold Parties Accountable For Leaving Poll Promises Unfulfilled

Chief Justice of India J S Khehar has come down heavily on the political parties for not delivering what they promise in their election manifestos.

"Now a days manifestos have become a mere piece of paper, for this political parties have to be made accountable," the CJI said at a seminar titled 'Economic Reforms with Reference to Electoral issues'. Read more