Texas A&M Player Kirk Merritt's Lawyer Provides Unbelievable Reason for Indecent Exposure Accusation
Texas A&M Player Kirk Merritt's Lawyer Provides Unbelievable Reason for Indecent Exposure Accusation
Texas A&M sophomore wide receiver Kirk Merritt has been accused of indecent exposure on two separate occasions with two different tutors. According to the , the first incident occurred "on or about" Oct. 24, 2016 when Merritt exposed and touched himself "while sitting in arm's reach" of his tutor. The very next day, another tutor claims that the Destrehan, Louisiana native who transferred to Texas A&M last July "pulled down his shorts and held himself" while the alleged victim was once again within arm's reach. Merritt is pleading not guilty to the charges. Now this is where things get real hairy. Merritt's lawyer Rick Davis issued a statement to the in response to the accusations, arguing that "a bad case of jock itch" is the reason for his actions. "While Kirk is very embarrassed about this situation, and has apologized to the two tutors that he offended, he did not intend to gratify anyone by exposing himself," Davis wrote. "The fact is that Kirk had a bad case of jock itch. The statute Kirk has been accused of violating requires that the Defendant have an intent to arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person and that the Defendant is reckless about whether another may be present who will be offended or alarmed by his conduct." Bruh. While Davis is doing all he can to help out his client, this guy had to be looking at his computer screen after typing up that statement like, "Fuck it!" sportstips@complex.com .

Texas A&M sophomore wide receiver Kirk Merritt has been accused of indecent exposure on two separate occasions with two different tutors. According to the Houston Chronicle, the first incident occurred "on or about" Oct. 24, 2016 when Merritt exposed and touched himself "while sitting in arm's reach" of his tutor. The very next day, another tutor claims that the Destrehan, Louisiana native who transferred to Texas A&M last July "pulled down his shorts and held himself" while the alleged victim was once again within arm's reach. Merritt is pleading not guilty to the charges. Now this is where things get real hairy.

Merritt's lawyer Rick Davis issued a statement to the Chronicle in response to the accusations, arguing that "a bad case of jock itch" is the reason for his actions. "While Kirk is very embarrassed about this situation, and has apologized to the two tutors that he offended, he did not intend to gratify anyone by exposing himself," Davis wrote. "The fact is that Kirk had a bad case of jock itch. The statute Kirk has been accused of violating requires that the Defendant have an intent to arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any person and that the Defendant is reckless about whether another may be present who will be offended or alarmed by his conduct."



Bruh. While Davis is doing all he can to help out his client, this guy had to be looking at his computer screen after typing up that statement like, "Fuck it!"

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.