Spanish police helicopter accused of flying over Gibraltar
Spanish police helicopter is accused violating Gibraltar's airspace


A Spanish police helicopter has been accused of flying over Gibraltar's airspace all week as tensions rise over the British territory.

The claim comes in the same week the Royal Navy chased a Spanish patrol boat out of Gibraltar's waters.

David Parody, a resident in Gibraltar, on Wednesday posted a screen grab from a flight-tracking website which appeared to show the aircraft in the territory's airspace.

Local resident David Parody tweeted a map from a flight-tracking sight that appeared to show the Spanish helicopter violating Gibraltar's airspace

Mr Parody wrote: 'And if we hadn't had enough today, we now have Spanish Policia Nacional within our airspace!'

The financial services consultant later told The Sun: 'Flight-tracking websites show that police helicopter has been in and out of Gibraltar airspace all week. It takes off to intercept drug-smugglers from North Africa.

'It doesn’t need to cross into our airspace but it does because it feels it can.'

Gibraltar's government and the Foreign Office are believed to be investigating the incident.

A diplomatic source told The Sun: 'All incursions, air or maritime, are always followed up. They are a violation of sovereignty but not a threat.'

The claim came just one day after the Royal Navy chased a Spanish patrol boat out of Gibraltar's waters on Tuesday

Mr Parody said a police helicopter like the above was crossing into Gibraltar's airspace on missions to intercept drug smugglers from North Africa

Relations between the UK and Spain have been strained in recent weeks as tensions rise over the future sovereignty of Gibraltar.

This week's war of words comes after years of disagreements between Britain and Spain over the peninsula off the Spanish coast, which has been a British overseas territory since the 18th century.

Its 30,000 resident overwhelmingly rejected Spanish sovereignty in two referendums in 1967 and 2002, but Brexit raised new questions after they voted to stay in the European Union in June.