At least 1 dead after shooting near mall in South Florida
At least 1 dead after shooting near mall in South Florida
Shares                At least one person died Saturday after a shooting at an upscale shopping mall in South Florida , officials said. Alvaro Zabaleta of the Miami-Dade Police Department said in an email to news organizations that detectives were called to the scene of a shooting along South Lejeune Road in Coral Gables. More than a dozen police cars were seen outside the Shops at Merrick Park, an upscale shopping mall not far from the University of Miami. More than a dozen police cars were parked outside the outdoor mall, which was ringed with crime scene tape. The mall appears to have been evacuated; patrons were gathered outside. The Miami Herald (https://tinyurl.com/ml4hk2p) and other news outlets reported the shooting was at a gym at the mall. The newspaper said about 100 people were eating at Yard House's outdoor patio when the shooting began. General manager Tim Hartog said some patrons ran inside and hid under tables while others rushed out the back door before police ordered the restaurant and nearby shops on lockdown. About an hour after the shooting, a few people still in workout attire were outside the gym. One person said she was waiting to see if she would be allowed back inside to retrieve her belongings. "They said run, and I ran," said the woman, who declined to identify herself to an AP reporter. Several police and fire rescue vehicles blocked off streets in the area. The mall is usually bustling on a Saturday afternoon. There was no immediate word on when mall activities would return to normal. Shares                  At least 1 dead after shooting near mall in South Florida   Warplanes strike Syrian town where chemical attack killed dozens, activists say   Obama aides push back against criticism of inaction on Syria   Man journeys from living under a bridge to Boston Marathon   Joining high court, the real Neil Gorsuch set to stand up   Trump: 'Only time will tell' on improving US-China trade   Could Rikers Island spell relief for busy LaGuardia Airport?   Housing options help autistic adults find independence   Republicans hope Trump amenable to food stamp restrictions   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Mandated police reform could make Baltimore 'less safe,' AG says   California governor declares historic drought over for now   Trudeau to mark 100 years of Vimy battle that defined Canada   Tales from the border: 2 weeks along the US-Mexico frontier   Seattle mayor denies sex abuse claims - 'simply not true'   Dalai Lama says it's for people to decide fate of his office   FBI, Homeland Security consider possible retaliations following Syria strike   Myanmar ferry capsizes; 20 dead, over a dozen missing   FBI searching for gun-store robbery suspect who sent manifesto to Trump   Suspect in Stockholm attack identified as Uzbekistan-born man: Police   Athletes, fans honor Stockholm truck attack victims   Police respond to gun threat at high school in west Indiana   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt

At least one person died Saturday after a shooting at an upscale shopping mall in South Florida, officials said.

Alvaro Zabaleta of the Miami-Dade Police Department said in an email to news organizations that detectives were called to the scene of a shooting along South Lejeune Road in Coral Gables.

More than a dozen police cars were seen outside the Shops at Merrick Park, an upscale shopping mall not far from the University of Miami. More than a dozen police cars were parked outside the outdoor mall, which was ringed with crime scene tape.

The mall appears to have been evacuated; patrons were gathered outside.

The Miami Herald (https://tinyurl.com/ml4hk2p) and other news outlets reported the shooting was at a gym at the mall.

The newspaper said about 100 people were eating at Yard House's outdoor patio when the shooting began. General manager Tim Hartog said some patrons ran inside and hid under tables while others rushed out the back door before police ordered the restaurant and nearby shops on lockdown.

About an hour after the shooting, a few people still in workout attire were outside the gym. One person said she was waiting to see if she would be allowed back inside to retrieve her belongings.

"They said run, and I ran," said the woman, who declined to identify herself to an AP reporter.

Several police and fire rescue vehicles blocked off streets in the area.

The mall is usually bustling on a Saturday afternoon. There was no immediate word on when mall activities would return to normal.