North Korea calls Trump's airstrike an 'act of aggression'
North Korea calls Trump's strike an 'act of aggression'


North Korea has become the latest nation to wade into the row over Syria.

The communist state, which has provided arms to Bashar al-Assad, branded Donald Trump's missile strike on a Syrian airbase 'an unforgivable act of aggression'.

Vindicating its recent missile testing programme, the foreign ministry said: 'The reality of today proves our decision to strengthen our military power to stand against force with force was the right choice a million times over.'

Glorious leader Kim Jong Un: North Korea has become the latest nation to wade into the row over Syria

Diplomatically isolated North Korea considers Syria a key ally.

Before the US strikes Leader Kim Jong Un and Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad exchanged messages of warm wishes and pledges of friendship and cooperation between the two countries.

Al-Assad thanked Kim for recognising the Syrian struggle to 'meet such challenges as sinister actions of the world's terrorists and encouraging Syria to successfully weather the crisis without fail.'

President Trump ordered the attack on a Syrian airbase after a gas attack by al-Assad's government killed 87 people in a rebel-held territory.

The US strikes came as Trump hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping in Florida to press the leader of North Korea's sole diplomatic ally to do more to curb Pyongyang's nuclear ambitions.

A missile test last month: Kim watched a rocket being fired from afar as he celebrated what he called a great day in his country's history

Beaming: Kim celebrated with his generals who applauded the missile test at the launch site

President Donald Trump has accepted the invitation from Chinese President Xi Jinping to pay a state visit to China this year. Trump has called on China to pressure North Korea

North Korea is believed to be developing missiles capable of hitting the United States and a nuclear arsenal in defiance of UN sanctions. It has conducted five nuclear tests - two since the beginning of last year - and scores of missile tests.

Kim Yong-Hyun, a professor at Dongguk University said the strike against Syria was a statement of intent that was meant for a wide readership.

'It signals to Pyongyang that the US has a new sheriff in town who isn't hesitant about pulling his gun from the holster,' Kim said.

But while the move might give the North pause, it is unlikely to deter a leadership that views nuclear weapons as the sole guarantee of its future survival.

'In the long term, US military actions overseas won't help curb the North's nuclear pursuit', Kim said.

On Friday, it was revealed that The White House National Security Council has drawn up North Korea options for President Trump that involve killing the country's erratic dictator Kim Jong-un and reinserting U.S. nuclear weapons into South Korea.

The bold options were revealed by NBC News just as President Xi Jinpeng of China wrapped up a visit and meetings with Trump at to Mar-a-Lago. Trump wants China to use its leverage to get North Korea to back off its threatening behavior.

One option the network reported was bringing back nuclear bombs and positioning them likely at Osan Air Base, just 50 miles from Seoul. It would be the first U.S. deployment of nuclear weapons overseas since the end of the Coal War.

'We have 20 years of diplomacy and sanctions under our belt that has failed to stop the North Korean program,' a senior intelligence official who took part told NBC.

The strikes hit the government-controlled Shayrat air base (above) in central Syria, where U.S. officials say the Syrian military planes that dropped the chemicals had taken off

After North Korea fired off yet another ballistic missile last week, the State Department issued a terse statement: 'North Korea launched yet another intermediate range ballistic missile. The United States has spoken enough about North Korea. We have no further comment,' said Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.

Another option would be killing the famously unpredictable leader, who is known for his belligerent threats toward the U.S. and its Asian allies. Wiping out Kim and senior leaders in charge of missiles and nukes would be fraught with risks.

'Discussions of regime change and decapitation ... tend to cause the Chinese great pause of concern and tends to have them move in the opposite direction we would like them to move in terms of pressure,' said former U.S. ambassador to South Korea Mark Lippert.

Tillerson in a briefing with reporters on Friday stressed the U.S. commitment to a 'denuclearized' Korean peninsula. President Xi shared the administration's view that the situation had reached a very serious stage, according to cabinet secretaries who briefed reporters.

'I think President Xi, from their part, shared the view that this has reached a very serious stage in terms of the advancement of North Korea’s nuclear capabilities,' Tillerson said.

'They discussed the challenges that introduces for both countries, but there’s a real commitment that we work together to see if this cannot be resolved in a peaceful way. But in order for that to happen, North Korea’s posture has to change before there’s any basis for dialogue or discussions,' Tillerson added.