Stockholm attack: Uzbek man arrested had ISIS propaganda
Stockholm suspect WAS known to the police and had ISIS propaganda


Police investigating Friday's atrocity arrested three more suspects in central Stockholm on Saturday afternoon.

It is understood that the suspects were taken from a car that was connected to the suspected terrorist.

Officers smashed the window on the driver's side as they took the suspects into custody at five o'clock, Swedish media reported.

The police has not yet commented on the arrests.

It comes as a major police operation is taking place in Vårberg, a suburb of Western Stockholm about 12 miles from the scene of the attack.

Police special forces have been seen raiding a property in the area and technicians have removed a number of items of evidence from the address.

Earlier it was revealed the 39-year-old Uzbek man who has been arrested over the Stockholm truck attack was known to the police and has ISIS propaganda on his laptop.

Police also confirmed a homemade bomb was found inside the truck and the man arrested is 'likely' to be the driver.

The head of Sweden's domestic intelligence agency told a press conference today that the suspect had been on authorities' radar some time ago.

Anders Thornberg, head of the Swedish Security Service, said: 'The suspect didn't appear in our recent files but he earlier has been in our files.'

This is the truck which was used to kill at least four people - and injure eight - after a terrorist drove into crowds of people in the Swedish capital on Friday

Police cordoned off the street (pictured on Saturday) as they continued to investigate the suspected terror attack in Stockholm

On Saturday - the day after the suspected terror attack - police officers stood on the street where a man drove into a crowd of pedestrians, killing at least four people

A distraught man puts his hand over his face as he looks at flowers which were left at the scene following the attack in Sweden

Speaking at the Royal Palace in Stockholm King Gustav XVI said Sweden would continue to be a 'safe and peaceful country' while calling the death of four people an 'abhorrent deed'

Police chief Dan Eliasson added that the suspect was a 'marginal character' and was not thought to be under direct surveillance.

The man, who is from Uzbekistan, was arrested in the early hours of the morning after the terror attack left four people dead and 15 injured.

Speaking at the press conference in the Swedish capital Stockholm, Eliasson said he could not give any further details on the suspect or if he had any links to the ISIS terror group.

He said: 'He was known. The intelligence and security police were aware and said he was a marginal character.

'There is nothing that tells us that we have the wrong person.'

He added he did not know whether others were involved in the attack and said 'we cannot exclude this'.

It is not know how long the suspect had been in Sweden. Reports by Swedish media described him as a father of four who was found to have ISIS propaganda on his laptop.

Reports have also suggested that the suspect posted jihadist propaganda on social media and had pictures of injured people following the Boston Marathon explosion in 2013.

Police said they were still at a preliminary stage in the inquiry and they were trying to build up a profile of the arrested man's behaviour and to see if he was part of a wider cell.

The police said he couldn't confirm or deny if the suspect acted alone.

Eliasson urged the public to remain alert and said he was confident the police in the country could deal with any further terror attacks.

He said: 'We do not know if there were further persons in this act. We are not excluding that and we are working to see if others were involved.'

Officers said the suspect arrested first on Friday evening resembled the man in photos they issued as part of an earlier appeal (left and right)

A female police officer stood outside a property in western Stockholm as it was being raided in relation to the suspected terror attack in the capital

A woman attended the scene in Stockholm this morning after at least four were killed in a suspected terror attack in Sweden

This image shows the second man who was arrested by Swedish terror police late last night in Hjulsta. Witnesses described seeing up to a dozen police cars swoop and arrest the man

Police officers are seen in Hjulsta suburb in Stockholm after a raid following a suspected terror attack on the Drottninggatan Street in central Stockholm

HERO DRIVER SAVED PEDESTRIANS BY HONKING HORN A hero security driver saved pedestrians' lives by following the terrorist's lorry honking his horn to alert bystanders, a police source has said. The mystery driver, who works for a security company but has not been named, was making his way along Drottninggatan high street yesterday afternoon when he became suspicious about the hijacked beer lorry. When the terrorist passed him, the driver followed close behind, honking his horn to warn people to get out of the way. According to police, this act of heroism could have saved many lives, the Expressen newspaper reported. He is understood to be receiving support from his employer in the aftermath of the tragedy. The driver is the third 'hero' that have been praised by Swedish police investigating yesterday's attack. In the minutes after the atrocity, two anonymous 'hero witnesses' alerted police after spotting the suspect on foot. One woman saw the man on a commuter train in the minutes after the attack and immediately alerted police, but the man ran away before she could pursue him. Later, an unnamed man spotted the suspect at a nearby petrol station in Märsta, a suburb of Stockholm. The witness recognised the man from pictures released in the media and followed him in his car. 'If he hadn't done this, we wouldn't have found him as fast as we did,' a police source told the Aftonbladet newspaper. A nearby patrol was alerted and officers were scrambled to intercept the suspect who was arrested close to nearby Arlanda airport yesterday evening. Speaking in a mixture of Russian and Swedish, the suspect confessed to the crime as soon as he was apprehended, police have said.

Eliasson said there were 'clear similarities' to the Westminster terror attack when Khalid Masood drove a car at speed people ploughing into people walking along Westminster Bridge.

Police officer Keith Palmer was stabbed to death at the entrance to Parliament before Masood was shot dead. The four other victims all died from injuries caused by being hit by Masood's car.

Thornberg said the threat level in the country remained at 3 on a scale of 5. He said they had no intelligence to raise the threat level.

It comes after bomb disposal experts found the improvised explosive device packed into a suitcase inside the hijacked beer truck.

The discovery of the bomb points to a planned terror attack rather than an opportunistic attack. It is not known why the IED failed to detonate.

Police have said the man has been arrested and held in charges of carrying out a terror attack in which a stolen beer truck was driven at high speed into the entrance of a department store.

As the press conference was taking place, it was revealed an Uzbek man living at the same address as the terror suspect ran a cleaning company that was suspected of funding ISIS.

The company was part of a 2015 police investigation into an Uzbek crime ring in the Stockholm area which was alleged to have generated significant sums of money for the jihadi group.

The investigation was unable to prove a connection to terror financing, so the case was instead restricted to financial impropriety. Five people were charged and three were convicted.

A man identified as a key member of the group is listed at the same address as the suspect, the Expressen newspaper reported.

Meanwhile, fears are growing for an 11-year-old girl who is missing after yesterday's attack.

The child, who has not yet been named, has not been seen since the atrocity and is thought to have been walking along Drottninggatan high street at the time.

A relative told the Expressen newspaper that police have visited the girl's house asking to collect her DNA.

Police have not yet confirmed whether she was caught up in the atrocity but friends and family are said to be desperate for information.

There are fears that other children and babies may have been injured or killed in the attack after reports that a pram was seen thrown into the air by the rampaging lorry.

A 17-year-old boy who was arrested last night along with his mother have both been released this morning, the Expressen newspaper has reported.

It is understood that the main suspect, a 39-year-old man, had previously lived at their address in north Stockholm.

The boy's mother said that the terror suspect had not been living there despite being registered at the property.

Swedish police today praise two anonymous 'hero witnesses' after they followed the terror suspect following yesterday's atrocity.

According to broadcaster SVT, this suspect was arrested in the northern suburb Hjulsta and he is said to be connected to the man who was arrested earlier in the evening (see video above)

Swedish police are continuing to hunt the driver of a 30-tonne stolen truck that ploughed into shoppers in Stockholm, killing four and injuring 15

Swedish police confirmed earlier on Friday that it had identified a person arrested in another Stockholm suburb and who resembled the picture and description of a man that police went public with after the truck attack

This medic, wearing green overalls, was seen running outside Ahlens, a department store in Klarabergsgatan, covering bodies with orange blankets

The hijacked vehicle crashed into a packed shopping centre and burst into flames. This photo shows shoppers fleeing the scene

Armed police swarm around the truck, which was reported stolen from Spendrups Brewery. The foam is from a fire extinguisher that officers used to put out the flames

This image shows the beer truck being towed out of the Ahlens department store on Friday evening during recovery work after the incident

The shattered truck was pulled away by a recovery van under the watchful eye of heavily-armed police officers

A man in scrubs was seen walking along the street with several bodies, which have been covered by blankets, behind him. At least four people have died

This image shows an injured person being carried from the chaotic scenes at Ahlens, a department store in Stockholm where the lorry crashed

The back of the truck, sticking out of the shopping centre, is seen here moments after ramming several people as they were out shopping

Memorial candles are left outside the Swedish Embassy in Helsinki, Finland. Others took to social media to voice their tributes

Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven has laid a bouquet of red roses and lit a candle outside the Ahlens store. He said: 'We know that our enemies are these atrocious murderers and not each other'

The Prime Minister added: 'Our message will always be clear: you will not defeat us, you will not govern our lives, you will never ever win'

Shoppers described how severed limbs and bodies were left littered across a blood-splattered Stockholm street yesterday in a scene reminiscent of a 'warzone'

One woman saw the man on a commuter train in the minutes after the attack and immediately alerted police, but the man ran away before she could pursue him.

Later, an unnamed man spotted the suspect at a nearby petrol station in Märsta, a suburb of Stockholm.

The witness recognised the man from pictures released in the media and followed him in his car.

A police source told the Aftonbladet newspaper: 'If he hadn't done this, we wouldn't have found him as fast as we did.'

A nearby patrol was alerted and officers were scrambled to intercept the suspect who was arrested close to nearby Arlanda airport yesterday evening.

Speaking in a mixture of Russian and Swedish, the suspect confessed to the crime as soon as he was apprehended, police have said.

And this morning, flowers were laid at the spot where the lorry ploughed into the department store.

Mourners flocked to the popular shopping street to pay tribute to the dead hours after the attack, which left 15 others injured.

Moving images show tearful people placing bouquets of flowers and fastening single roses to railings at the edge of the police cordon.

A message of solidarity on a placard next to them reads: 'Je suis Stockholm..'

Other photos show debris scattered on the street and police cars remain at the scene, which is cordoned off.

It comes after footage showed the moment Swedish police snared a suspected Isis fanatic following a high-speed chase and arrested him in relation to the attack.

The father-of-four was arrested on suspicion of 'terrorist crimes through murder', Swedish prosecutors said on Saturday. Police have said he is 'likely' to be the driver.

The man, believed to be from Uzbekistan, was wearing a balaclava, with broken glass on his clothes. He reportedly confessed to being involved in the atrocity.

Police suspect he was behind the wheel of the truck, although other security sources reported in Swedish media said the driver is still at large.

He had posted Isis propaganda on Facebook and liked pictures of casualties after the terrorist attack on the Boston Marathon in 2013, Aftonblat reported.

A further arrest was made at 11pm last night in the Stockholm suburb of Hjulsta, according to Swedish newspaper Expressen.

Pictures show the second man, who looked younger, being handcuffed and taken away in a police car. According to Swedish television, the two arrested men are linked.

Photographer Janne Akkeson, who witnessed the arrest in Hjulsta, said: 'There were about 15 police cars at the scene. There was a specialist terrorist SWAT team and sniffer dogs.'

People were seen running for their lives after a truck crashed into Ahlens, a department store in Klarabergsgatan, at around 3pm local time

During the attack, which happened around 2.45pm local time, a hijacked 30-tonne truck ploughed down pedestrians before crashing into a shopping centre and bursting into flames.

One witness said a pram was hurled into the air and desperate pedestrians ran for their lives as the lorry crushed everything in its path.

Two men were tackled to the ground and arrested. Police questioned them but said they were not suspected of any crime.

Police released CCTV of the man who ran away, who was wearing a green jacket, white shoes and a grey hoodie.

Officers said the first suspect arrested on Friday evening in Marsta resembled the man in the appeal photos.

Hundreds of shoppers had to flee for their lives after the articulated lorry rammed into the corner of the Ahlens department store.

Horrifying images of the aftermath showed blood smeared on the roads and bodies covered by blankets.

Following the lorry crash, armed terrorists were seen running into Stockholm's Central railway station and opening fire. Two people were also said to have been stabbed.

Spendrups Brewery said the truck belonged to its company and was stolen.

The vehicle's original driver, who has not been named, was hurt in the hijacking after trying to cling to the vehicle.

He had climbed out of the cab while delivering its cargo of beer. At least one man, wearing a balaclava, took the chance to climb in and drove off, knocking the victim over as he tried to get back on board. He was injured, but not seriously.

Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven has laid a bouquet of red roses and lit a candle outside the Ahlens store.

And the King of Sweden addressed the nation on Saturday, saying they will recover from the trauma of the country's worst ever terror attack.

Speaking at the Royal Palace in Stockholm King Gustav XVI said Sweden would continue to be a 'safe and peaceful country' while calling the death of four people an 'abhorrent deed'.

The terror attack came just 16 days after the Westminster Bridge killer Khalid Masood used a car to murder five people before stabbing a policeman to death outside Parliament.

Last year, ISIS terrorists used trucks to kill dozens in Berlin and Nice.

After yet another terror attack on European soil, MailOnline understands:

Terror suspect jumped into cab of a beer lorry while its driver was making a delivery

Masked man sped through central Stockholm aiming at pedestrians before crashing into the Åhlens department store on Klarabergsgatan. At least four people died and 15 were injured

Witnesses heard shots fired and two suspects were filmed being detained in the street

A 39-year-old father-of-four was arrested in the northern suburb of Marsta

And there was a further arrest of a younger man at 11pm in nearby Hjulsta

This photo shows two men being apprehended by Stockholm Police around the time of the attack. Witnesses said one of these men is the driver but this has not been confirmed by officers

A man is detained inside the police security cordon. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said everything pointed to the incident being a terror attack

A man is carried away by officers wearing suits as a policewoman armed with a pistol watches on. Swedish police carry handguns as standard

A heavily-armed policeman sprints across the road near the department store. Security is being beefed up in other European cities in the wake of the attack

Witnesses described how severed limbs and bodies were left littered across the blood-splattered Drottninggatan in a scene reminiscent of a 'warzone'.

Many told how they had been browsing in busy stores when the lorry came hurtling towards them.

One told of bodies and blood 'everywhere' and even a dead dog with its owner screaming beside it.

Nils Bengtsson told of the moment when he realised it was a terror attack: 'I heard a loud bang and people screaming,' he said.

BRITISH TOURIST WITNESSED THE ATTACK A British journalist who was on holiday in Stockholm described seeing 'lifeless bodies' covered with towels after the suspected terror attack. Harriet Rose-Gale, 26, from Marlborough, Wiltshire, was eating her lunch when a truck ploughed into pedestrians in the centre of the city. She said: 'I walked up the road and we could just see a lorry, a truck, and what we could only assume was a lifeless body in front of it. 'It had a peach or orange towel covering it and there was another body with a white sheet in the middle of the road. 'There were armed police running past us and shouting in Swedish. I don't know what they were saying.'

'I then saw the truck coming towards me. Then I started to think about what happened in Nice and realised that the same thing is happening here in front of me.

'The truck was driving really fast and drove towards people at full force. I was about 100 metres [300ft] from where the truck crashed.

'I was afraid about what I might see… but I wanted to help so I left the shop and walked out and I was met by chaos.

'There were injured people everywhere around the truck.

'People around me were in shock. Everyone was crying and screaming. It felt like being in a warzone.

'There were several hundred people on the street. I saw at least three or four dead bodies on the street where the truck had crashed.'

Christoffer Ung told TT news agency: 'I was on my way to the exit and just saw the wall coming towards us like an avalanche.

'People turned in panic and fled towards the exits. My first thought was that a bomb had exploded. When I came out of the building I saw flames emerging from it.'

Store manager Malin Emto said: 'Suddenly there was a customer who had a panic attack and started screaming. We ran to the window and saw two dead bodies, badly mangled.'

Besarta Gashi, 31, who is pregnant, said she and her nine-year-old daughter Leonida were feet from being crushed by the lorry.

'We heard screams. We started to run but did not know where it came from. Just then the truck came a hair's breadth away from us,' she said. 'I jumped away and pulled back my sister and daughter.

'They had just enough time to get away. I saw parts flying... many dead on the ground. A girl under the truck who could not escape.'

At first, she feared that she had lost her unborn baby but was last night told by doctors that the child had survived.

A view of the site where the truck drove into Åhlens department store in Klarabergsgatan, left and right. The foam, seen right, is from a fire extinguisher used to dampen the flames

Blood was seen on the streets outside of the shopping centre where at least four people were killed and 15 more injured

Emergency services were seen tending to injured people and putting blankets over those who had been killed

The 'lightly injured' suspect was arrested in Marsta, a suburb north of Stockholm, after members of the public contacted police to say he was acting strangely. Pictured is a police block near to where the arrest took place

A Syrian woman, who gave her name only as Narin, sobbed as she told how she saw a woman whose legs had been cut off in the carnage.

KING GUSTAV XVI'S ADDRESS King Gustav praised the work of the police and emergency services that responded to the terror attack in a busy city centre street less than half a mile from the Royal Palace. He said on Saturday: ' We are all shaken by what happened. But it is also hopeful to see the care that people show each other. 'It shows this power in our society. All of us who want to help are many more than those who wish us harm. That knowledge gives me comfort and confidence.' The King spoke after a briefing from police and security chiefs about their investigation. Earlier in the day King Gustav's daughter Princess Victoria was seen gently weeping when she visited the scene to lay flowers. King Gustav interrupted an official visit to Brazil to fly back to Stockholm following the worst terror attack in the country's history. He said the royal family's thoughts were with the victims of the 'heinous deed.' He ended his speech by telling his people the country had suffered previous acts of violence and would emerge stronger.

She said: 'I was terrified, I am still shaking. The truck went at high speed – it crushed everything in its path. In the beginning we thought it was an explosion because of the loud sounds.'

One unnamed witness told of how he saw the truck come speeding towards him. 'He mowed down eight people there and I saw four bodies a little further away.

'A woman with a small child became completely paralysed and just stood still. I grabbed her and another woman and threw us all into a stairwell.'

As the chaos unfurled, a plain clothes officer screamed at onlookers to leave the scene, warning that there could be a bomb inside the lorry.

John Backvid witnessed the aftermath of the attack and told how passers-by tried to help the injured before the emergency services arrived. He told BBC News: 'Some people were on the ground doing CPR.

'The first thing I felt was a bit of smoke in the air. I saw a gathering of people and the truck on fire – it was deep in the store and the store fire alarm was going.

'It was chaotic. I could not see if anyone was driving it but it got out of control. I saw at least two being run over. I ran as fast as I could.'

Yosef Jawad said he saw an English-speaking woman collapsed on a zebra crossing and screaming: 'My legs, my legs.'

'Her feet hung loose and there was blood everywhere,' he said. 'I'm from the Middle East, you see very bad things on TV from Iraq, but this was terrible.'

Radio presenter Martin Svennigsen said he tried desperately to save those who had been crushed by the vehicle.

'There was blood everywhere. I saw two shattered bodies and tried to save a third, but could not.

'I leaned back and closed his eyes,' he told Swedish newspaper Expressen.

There was a heavy police presence in Stockholm this afternoon, and dozens of ambulances were on hand to help the injured

Paramedics were photographed dashing to the scene where four people died and at least 15 were injured

Heavily armed police patrolled the streets of Sweden after the horrific attacks on pedestrians in the city

This officer donned a gas mask as she attempted to calm people and evacuate them from the area where the attack took place

Emergency services cordoned off the roads around the department store. Bodies were covered in orange blankets

This terrifying security camera footage shows shoppers piling into a clothes store as the terrorist truck speeds past

The Swedish capital was put on lockdown with residents warned to stay inside as police launched a major manhunt to catch the killer

All trains in and out of the city were cancelled and motorists were told to stay away from the centre. The use of a lorry to mow down a crowd is more reminiscent of terror attacks in Nice and Berlin last year

Police hold a news conference to brief the press on the manhunt. Picture, from left is Anders Thornberg, Swedish Security Service, Dan Eliasson, National Police Commissioner and Mats Löfving, Deputy Director of the Swedish Police Authority

Jan Granroth was inside a shoe shop when he heard screams. He told Aftonbladet: 'We stood inside a shoe store and people started screaming. So I looked out of the store and I saw a huge truck slam into the wall opposite.'

Mr Granroth managed to escape after running through an emergency exit.

Another witness, called Dimitris, described the panic and saw 'at least' two people being run over.

ATTACK MIRRORS TERROR INCIDENT IN STOCKHOLM IN 2010 The incident in the Swedish capital this afternoon mirrored a terror attack in central Stockholm in December 2010. A fortnight before Christmas, a car blew up in a busy shopping area in Drottninggatan, followed moments later by a second explosion nearby. The suicide bomber who blew himself up was identified as Iraqi man Taimour-Al-Abdaly, 28, who graduated with a BSc in sports therapy at the University of Bedfordshire in 2004. He rigged an Audi car with explosives in the hope it would drive people to Drottninggatan, a busy shopping street about 200 yards away, where he was waiting to set off two more devices strapped to his chest and back. The car bomb never went off, and after setting fire to the Audi he was unable to detonate the other two explosives as planned. He made his way down a side street off Drottninggatan and, in an apparent attempt to fix the faulty trigger up his sleeve, set off the bomb on the front of his body, killing only himself. According to investigations by FBI, the bombing would likely have killed between 30 and 40 people had it succeeded. In March 2011, Strathclyde Police in Scotland arrested 30-year-old Nasserdine Menni in the Whiteinch area of Glasgow in connection with the Stockholm bombing. He was jailed for seven years in 2012 after being found guilty of supplying money.

He said: 'I went to the main street when a big truck came out of nowhere. I could not see if anyone was driving it but it got out of control.

'I saw at least two being run over - I ran as fast as I could.'

A woman, called Anna, witnessed the incident and described seeing 'hundreds of people running for their lives'.

She said: 'I turned and ran after seeing hundreds of people running, they ran for their lives.'

Shocking video showed hundreds of terrified shoppers sprint for their lives after the truck rammed into pedestrians.

In other footage, shoppers pile into a clothes store as the terrorist truck speeds past.

Just moments after the suspected terrorist incident, armed police wearing gas masks arrived at the scene and shut off the busy road in the centre of the capital.

Glen Foran, an Australian tourist in his 40s, said: 'I turned around and saw a big truck coming towards me. It swerved from side to side.

'It didn't look out of control, it was trying to hit people … it was terrible. It hit a pram with a kid in it, demolished it. It took a long time for police to get here … it felt like forever.'

Annevi Petersson, who was in the fitting room of the department store at the time of the attack, said: 'There was a lady lying with a severed foot. There was blood everywhere.

'There were bodies on the ground everywhere, and a sense of panic, people standing by their loved ones, but also people running away.'

Maria Nathalie was on the top floor of the store when the fire alarm was triggered.

Speaking on the phone, she told NBC: 'People started running down the stairs when the fire alarm started.

'When we came down to the bottom of the building all we could see was a lot of smoke.'

As the centre of the city began to clear this afternoon, the blood stains could be seen as bodies covered in blankets were left on the road.

Paramedics desperately treated injured people near the lorry after they had been caught up in the attack.

Terrified eyewitness Veronica Durango, 42, miraculously escaped and was just one metre away from being struck by the vehicle.

She told Expressen: 'I could have died.'

The Swedish royal family has issued a statement in which they say they have learned with dismay of the events. 'We follow the developments and our thoughts are with the victims and their families.'

Stockholmers appeared to be following police advice to stay indoors and avoid crowded areas, with a number of normally-bustling city streets deserted.

Security was also beefed up across European cities in the wake of the attack.

In Norway, one of the few European countries where police are not routinely armed, officials announced that officers in major urban areas would now carry firearms. In a tweet, Norwegian Police said officers in its largest cities and at Oslo's airport would be carrying weapons until further notice.

In Finland, police increased patrols in the capital Helsinki.

Last night, as world leaders sent messages of condolence, Sweden's King Carl XVI Gustaf said his 'thoughts are going out to those that were affected, and to their families'.

Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, said that it 'looks like we have seen a despicable act of terrorism' which was aimed at 'harming innocent people'.

Speaking just weeks after the Westminster terror attack, Mr Khan said that 'we will never allow terrorists to succeed' after a truck ploughed into people in Stockholm.

He said: 'My thoughts and deepest sympathies are with the victims and the families who have been affected by the horrific attack in Stockholm.

'The full details are still emerging, but once again it looks like we have seen a despicable act of terrorism aimed at harming innocent people and attacking our shared values of democracy, freedom, justice and tolerance.

'Londoners know how it feels to suffer from senseless and cowardly terrorism. And I know we share a steely determination with the people of Stockholm that we will never allow terrorists to succeed.

'We will never be cowed by terrorism, and London stands united with Stockholm and Londoners stand with the people of Stockholm.'

Tensions masked by idyllic lifestyle

With its bustling pavements and elegant shops, Stockholm has come to be seen as one of Europe's most peaceful and developed cities.

For decades, the Swedish way of politics – based on fair wealth redistribution, a welfare state with generous benefits, a large public sector and a liberal immigration policy – has been put forward as a role model for other countries.

Pundits and politicians have described Sweden as 'the safest place on Earth' and it has barely suffered from terrorist attacks.

Indeed, the last incident of note came in 2010 when a failed suicide bomber blew himself up in central Stockholm.

But yesterday's killings come two months after US President Donald Trump was ridiculed around the world for making reference to a non-existent terror attack in the country.

His outspoken remarks, in which he also said Sweden was 'having problems like they never thought possible', drew a wave of international criticism. But it prompted renewed debate over Sweden's refugee policy, which has seen it described as 'the most welcoming country in the world'. Some politicians say the country has struggled to deal with the huge numbers of migrants who have travelled there to enjoy the high quality of life.

The surge of immigration at the peak of Europe's migration crisis in 2015 saw a record 163,000 asylum applications in just one year.

The influx, to a country with a population of 10million, prompted officials to put in place additional checks at the country's borders.

Since 2012 around 300 people have travelled from Sweden to join violent Islamist groups – making the country one of the largest contributors to terrorist cells in Europe. They typically travel to Syria and Iraq but security services had felt they had stemmed the flow.

Yesterday's attack will reawaken memories of Sweden's first brush with Islamist extremism when another devastating incident was only narrowly avoided on the same street.

The botched 2010 plot was masterminded by a former British student who travelled to Drottninggatan as it was packed with Christmas shoppers.

Taimour Abdulwahab al-Abdaly, 28, who was partly radicalised while studying in Luton, had loaded his white Audi car with gas canisters, which could have killed dozens.

A remarkable stroke of luck, however, meant that the improvised weapons failed to detonate properly when the car went up in flames and only two people were injured.

The sole fatality was the perpetrator himself. He had fled the vehicle carrying pipe bombs, one of which exploded.

How vehicles became terrorists' favourite weapons Terrorists using cars and lorries to run down people like in Westminster, Nice, Berlin and now Stockholm 'is becoming the standard of an attack' security experts warned. Low tech attacks using stolen and hired vehicles to randomly rammed into crowds, were becoming increasing common by terrorists unable to get hold of guns and explosives. It is 'nigh on impossible' for security services to monitor and stop potential terrorists planning such murders and the only way to prevent them is by using barriers to protect pedestrians. Managing Director of Corporate Security Services Will Geddes said attacks of this kind will likely increase. He said: 'We have seen a marked increase since the attacks in Nice last year and there is every good chance it will become regular as it is a very easy platform to deliver an attack. 'It is incredibly difficult to stop these things. We have seen something in Stockholm which is increasingly difficult to stop and we are going to see a drastic increase in the protection of pedestrianised areas. 'Whether they are going to be permanent or temporary, time will tell. It is very difficult to stop, nigh on impossible.' There have been five attacks using cars and trucks in the past nine months. London On 22 March, Khalid Masood, 52, drove a Hyundai 4x4 over Westminster Bridge, mowing down members of the public before crashing into a fence beside Big Ben. He then got out of the car and attacked PC Keith Palmer with a knife. Masood was shot twice by police and died when he was taken to hospital. Five people died in the attack, including PC Palmer. Antwerp The day after the Westminster attack, a man in Antwerp drove into a crowded shopping area in the Belgian city in an attempted attack, but no one was injured. Prosecutors dropped terrorism charges against Mohamed R. as there was not enough evidence. He remains in custody on a weapons offence related to the incident. Jerusalem On January 8, a Palestinian lorry driver mowed down and then reversed over Israeli soldiers, killing four and wounding 15 people, in a shocking copycat of the Berlin and Nice terror massacres. Shocking video from the scene showed the driver reversing back over the soldiers, trapping ten under his wheels, during the sickening attack. Berlin A copycat ISIS-inspired massacre took place in Germany when a terrorist drove a truck through a Christmas market in Berlin. Twelve people were killed in the attack on December 19. Anis Amri stole a cargo truck and killed 12 people when he drove through a Christmas market next to the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church at Breitscheidplatz. Among the dozen people killed was the original driver of the truck Lukasz Urban who was found dead with a gunshot wound in the passenger street. Amri was a Tunisian who had failed to gain asylum status in the country. He was killed in Milan four days later after an international manhunt. Nice On Bastille Day in the summer of last year, 86 people were killed when a truck was driven through crowds enjoying fireworks in Nice. On the evening of July 14, 2016, a 19-tonne cargo truck was driven into crowds on the Promenage des Anglais. ISIS fanatic Mohamed Lahouaiej-Bouhlel was behind the wheel and after exchanging gunfire with police, the Tunisian migrant was shot dead. Thousands had gathered on the seafront to watch the fireworks that night. 86 of them died and 434 were injured.

Armed police patrol outside the central station in Stockholm where people were evacuated from the station

Bystanders were seen comforting each other outside of the Central station, where gunmen were reported to have attacked commuters

Many people in central Stockholm were clearly in shock after the terror incident. Police sealed off the centre of the city and asked members of the public to leave