Stoke v Liverpool, Manchester City v Hull, Premier League and more – live!

Full time: West Ham 1-0 Swansea City Cheikhou Kouyate was the hero as West Ham arrested their alarming slide down the table.      Full time: West Brom 0-1 Southampton Jordie Clasie scored the winning goal for Saints in this mid-table encounter. Updated       Full time: Stoke City 1-2 Liverpool Half-time substitutes Roberto Firmino and Philippe Coutinho scored the goals that enabled Liverpool to come from behind against Stoke.      Full time: Middlesbrough 0-0 Burnley Middlesbrough huffed and puffed but couldn’t blow Burnley’s house down; their failure to score leaves in deep trouble.      Full time: Manchester City 3-1 Hull City Manchester City scored one of the best team goals you will ever see as they beat relegation-threatened Hull City.      A late sucker-punch for Birmingham Tom Ince looks to have scored a late winner for Derby County against Birmingham City, whose former manager Gary Rowett is now in charge of the Rams.      Middlesbrough have Burnley under siege Boro are throwing the kitchen sink at Burnley but time is running out for them to come up with a winner. Patrick Bamford, Adama Traore and Alvaro Negredo have all been brought off the bench but Burnley’s defence is holding firm.      Norwich make it a magnificent seven Cameron Jerome makes it NOrwich City 7-1 Reading at Carrow Road, where the hosts lead 6-1 at half-time.      Going up? As things stand, Sheffield United are going to be promoted to the Championship , Doncaster Rovers are going to be promoted to League One and Livingstone are going to be promoted to the Scottish Premiership this afternoon. Updated       GOAL! Manchester City 3-1 Hull City Hull City bag themselves a consolation goal courtesy of Andrea Ranocchia. It’s his second for the club since moving from Inter in January.      More goals in the Championship Wolves have pulled a goal back against Bristol City, but still trail 3-1 at Ashton Gate. Cardiff City have come from behind to lead Brentford 2-1. Sean Morrison and Peter Whittingham scored the goals for the home side after Sergi Canos had got the travelling Bees fans buzzing.      Doncaster are heading back to League One Doncaster can confirm their promotion to League One with a win today and they’re leading Mansfield Tow at the Keepmoat Stadium.      Celtic extend their lead ... Kilmarnock are paying the price for their impertinence against the champions. Having cancelled out Celtic’s opener, they now trail 3-1 at Celtic Park. James Forrest has got Celtic’s third.      And in Spain ... Real Madrid lead Atletico Madrid 1-0 in the big derby of the day. Pepe was the unlikely scorer with a rare goal.      Celtic retake their lead Scott Sinclair’s excellent run of form continues for Celtic. The winger has just put Celtic 2-1 up against Kilmarnock.      GOAL! Stoke City 1-2 Liverpool Some inspired substitutions from Jurgen Klopp at half-time - Philippe Coutinho levelled the scores and now Roberto Firmino has put Liverpool ahead with a wonderful strike into the top corner. Updated       Birmingham equalise against Derby Che Adams has equalised for Birmingham City in the Gary Rowett derby. The former Birmingham City manager isn’t having it all his own way on his return to St Andrew’s.      GOAL! Stoke City 1-1 Liverpool Having come on for the second half, Philippe Coutinho has equalised for Liverpool with a right-footed drive into the bottom corner from about 15 yards out. Updated       Meanwhile in Scotland ... Jordan Jones has equalised for Kilmarnock in their match against Celtic. It’s 1-1 at Celtic Park with a quarter of the game to go. Elsewhere in Scotland: Hamilton 1-1 Ross County, Hearts 1-0 Dundee, Inverness 0-1 St Johnstone, Partick Thistle 1-0 Motherwell.      More goals in the Championship It’s now 2-2 between Wigan Athletic and Rotherham. Anthony Forde gave Rotherham a 2-1 lead in the 61st minute, only for Alex Gilbey to level the scores again four minutes later.      GOAL! Manchester City 3-0 Hull City Fabian Delph hasn’t had many chances to shine for Manchester City since joining them, but has got his name up in lights today. It’s Manchester City 3-0 Hull City. Updated       Fulham score a third ... Fulham are ready to improve on their already splendid home record with a win over Ipswich Town. They lead 3-0 against Mick McCarthy’s side after Stefan Johansen’s goal.      More goals in the Championship ... Burton Albion have equalised against Aston Villa in their bid to stay out of the relegation zone, while Nottingham Forest now lead Huddersfield Town 2-0 after a fine strike from Jamie Ward. In the drop zone, Blackburn Rovers are losing 2-0 against Barnsley, while Wigan are being held 1-1 by already relegated Rotherham.      Meanwhile in Spain ... The second half has begun at the Bernabeu, where it’s scoreless between Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid. You can follow the rest of that here ...      Coventry lead Peterborough ... |Coventry City are a long way from safety but can avoid being relegated today if they win against Peterborough. Ruben Lameiras has given them a 1-0 lead after Posh missed a penalty.      More misery for Leyton Orient ... Cambridge United lead Leyton Orient 3-0 and it looks as if the League Two club’s relegation from the Football League is a formality. Their owner, Francesco Becchetti, should be thoroughly ashamed of what he has done to a club that were just a couple of penalty kicks away from the Championship less than three years ago.      Bristol City pile the pain on Wolves Tammy Abraham scores his second of the afternoon, the first having come from the penalty spot, to make it Bristol City 3-0 Wolves. With Bristol City and Nottingham Forest both winning, things are looking increasingly bleak for Blackburn Rovers as they try to claw their way out of the relegation zone. They trail Barnsley 2-0 at Ewood Park on what is turning into a thoroughly miserable afternoon for Rovers fans.      GOAL! Manchester City 2-0 Hull City Sergio Aguero taps in to finish a splendid passing move to put Manchester City two up against Hull City. Updated       Liverpool bring on the reinforcements ... Jurgen Klopp has brought on Roberto Firmino and Philippe Coutinho at half-time, with youngsters Ben Woodburn and Trent Alexander-Arnold making way.      Phil Rebbeck writes ... “Fulham have won 9 games and drawn 7 at home while losing 5. This may not make Craven Cottage a fortress but can hardly be described as a ‘poor home record’!” he says, putting me firmly back in my box. Apologies Phil, I thought they’d won a lot less at Fortress Craven Cottage.      And in Spain ... It’s Real Madrid 0-0 Atletico Madrid as they approach half-time at the Bernabeu. Updated       Scottish Premiership half-times Celtic 1-0 Kilmarnock, Hamilton Academical 1-0 Ross County, Hearts 1-0 Dundee, Inverness 0-1 St Johnstone, Partick Thistle 1-0 Motherwell View the Scottish Premiership table      League Two half-times Accrington Stanley 0-2 Crewe, Barnet 0-0 Luton Town, Blackpool 1-2 Grimsby Town, Cambridge United 2-0 Leyton Orient, Carlisle United 0-0 Notts County, Colchester United 4-0 Stevenage, Crawley Town 1-0 Plymouth Argyle, Doncaster Rovers 0-0 Mansfield Town, Morecambe 0-1 Hartlepool United, Portsmouth 1-0 Yeovil Town, Wycombe Wanderers 2-2 Cheltenham Town, Exeter City 0-0 Newport County (kick-off delayed by 45 minutes) View the League Two table      League One half-times AFC Wimbledon 0-1 Bristol Rovers, Bury 0-0 Bradford City, Charlton Athletic 1-1 Southend, Chesterfield 0-0 Port Vale, Coventry City 0-0 Peterborough United, Gillingham 0-0 Millwall, Northampton Town 1-0 Sheffield United, Oldham Athletic 1-0 Fleetwood Town, Scunthorpe United 1-0 Bolton Wanderers, Shrewsbury Town 1-0 Rochdale, Swindon Town 0-1 MK Dons, Walsall 0-0 Oxford United View the League One table      Championship half-times Birmingham City 0-1 Derby County, Blackburn Rovers 0-2 Barnsley, Bristol City 2-0 Wolves, Burton Albion 0-1 Aston Villa, Cardiff City 0-1 Brentford, Fulham 2-0 Ipswich Town, Leeds United 2-0 Preston, Norwich City 6-1 Reading, Nottingham Forest 1-0 Huddersfield Town, Wigan Athletic 1-1 Rotherham, Sheffield Wednesday v Newcastle United (5.30pm BST) View the Championship table      Half-time whistles are starting to blow ... But not at Elland Road, where Pablo Hernandez has doubled Leeds United’s lead against Preston North End. Updated       GOAL! West Ham 1-0 Swansea City Cheikhou Kouyate puts West Ham one up in their crucial match against Swansea City at the London Stadium with a shot from 20 or more yards out after picking up a pass from Robert Snodgrass. Updated       Goal! Stoke City 1-0 Liverpool Jon Walters scores to put Stoke ahead. Set-piece ... Liverpool defenders AWOL ... free header etc, and so on. Updated       Norwich City are winning by a tennis score It’s Norwich 6-1 Reading at Carrow Road, where Wes Hoolahan has just bagged his second of the day. Updated       Wigan equalise against Rotherham Gabriel Obertan has levelled the scores in Wigan’s must-win match against relegated Rotherham. The bad news for Wigan is that their fellow relegation strugglers Bristol City now lead Wolverhampton 2-0, while Nottingham Forest are beating Huddersfield 1-0. Meanwhile at Carrow Road, Reading have pulled a goal back against Norwich and trail 5-1. The comeback is on!!!      Bad news for West Ham fans ... Michail Antonio has pulled up with what looks like a torn hamstring and will play no more part in this afternoon’s match between his side and Swansea City. Updated       Norwich can't stop scoring!!! alex Pritchard has just scored his second of the afternoon to put Norwich City 5-0 up against Reading, who are being humiliated at Carrow Road.      Celtic lead in Scotland StuartArmstrong has opened the scoring in the title-winners’ match against Kilmarnock. Elsewhere in Scotland’s top flight: Hamilton 1-0 Ross County, Hearts 1-0 Dundee, Inverness 0-0 St Johnstone, Partick Thistle 1-0 Motherwell.      More goals in the Championship ... Bristol City are just outside the relegation zone and are leading 1-0 against Wolves. Below them, Wigan are losing 1-0 against already-relegated Rotherham, while Blackburn Rovers are two down against Barnsley. Elsewhere, Nottingham Forest have taken the lead against Huddersfield and Norwich City have just made it 4-0 in their thrashing of Reading.      GOAL! Manchester City 1-0 Hull City (Elmohamady og) Ahmed Elmohamady hacks an attempted clearance into his own net to give Manchester City the lead in their match against Hull City. Jesus Navas with the assist there. Updated       Fulham double their lead Scott Malone passes the ball into the far corner after a neat one-two on the edge of the penalty area to make it Fulham 2-0 Ipswich Town.      Norwich heap more pain on Reading Alex Pritchard has volleyed Norwich City three goals up against Reading at Carrow Road after just 26 minutes.  Premier League   Clockwatch   Championship   League One   League Two   European club football

Donald Trump has some news for everyone who showered him with pee jokes: he's a germaphobe.

During the president elect's press conference at Trump Tower on Wednesday, Trump responded to BuzzFeed's publishing of an unverified intelligence dossier on Tuesday. The document made several shocking allegations about his close ties to the Russian government, along with one very disturbing claim that he hired prostitutes to participate in a sex act on a hotel bed.

SEE ALSO: Twitter strikes comedy gold with stream of jokes over Trump report

Among the accusations released in the dossier, Trump was said to have hired prostitutes for a "golden shower" party — which essentially is just a shower of urine — on a bed in a Moscow Ritz-Carlton Hotel.

Report: Trump allegedly hired prostitutes for a “golden shower” party on Ritz Moscow bed where Obama/Michelle slepthttps://t.co/kkrva34ixT pic.twitter.com/XtQCX0UxQt — Tom Namako (@TomNamako) January 10, 2017

Trump kicked off the press conference by swiftly denying the validity of the dossier, and though he couldn't bring himself to utter the word "pee," he did his best to assure America that specific portion of the document could not be true.

Why? Because Trump hates germs, of course. HATES them!

"Does anyone really believe that story?" he questioned before admitting, "I’m also very much of a germaphobe, by the way."

"Believe me,” Trump said with a smirk that will probably haunt our dreams.

Trump on *THAT* story in dossier: "I'm also very much a germaphobe" pic.twitter.com/g2KOenG0TS — Mashable News (@MashableNews) January 11, 2017

Twitter users swiftly responded to the Germaphobe in Chief's statement, with a great deal of skepticism and of course, more pee jokes.

Urine is relatively sterile— Science https://t.co/P6sfKigQVg — Xeni Jardin (@xeni) January 11, 2017

Trump is a germaphobe.



There. It's settled.#TrumpPressConference — Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) January 11, 2017

LINCOLN: 4 score and 7 years ago

FDR: The only thing we have to fear is fear itself

TRUMP: I’m very much a germaphobe, when it comes to pee — Jason O. Gilbert (@gilbertjasono) January 11, 2017

If Trump is a germaphobe you'd think he'd be a little more careful about where he grabs women. #TrumpPressConference — David Nitzsche (@david_nitzsche) January 11, 2017

things learned during The Presser:



1. hacking is bad

2. it shouldn't be done

3. trump is a germaphobe

4. — Mallorie Sullivan ✨ (@malloriesullivn) January 11, 2017

Trump IS a germaphobe, fyi.

I've personally seen him recoil from shaking hands (not mine, obviously..) many times. — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) January 11, 2017

'I'm very much a germaphobe'

- Trump denies Watergate 2. 😂😂 — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) January 11, 2017

Regardless of what the people on Twitter think, Trump went on to explain that he couldn't possibly be caught in a situation like this, because he's smarter than technology.

You see, Trump believes there are hidden camera is every hotel room, and basically any other place you'd never imagine.

"Be very careful, because in your hotel rooms and no matter where you go you’re going to probably have cameras," he warned.

He knows a lot about hidden camera's. Maybe want to check Trump Towers if you book in there... — Peter Dexter (@PeterDexter2) January 11, 2017

"You have camera in the strangest places. Cameras that are so small — modern technology — you can’t see them and you won’t know," he said.

Trump believes there are hidden cameras in hotels everywhere. pic.twitter.com/GdpvXOYBtg — Mashable News (@MashableNews) January 11, 2017

The president-elect brought his reflection to a close by offering us all some sage advice: "You better be careful or you’ll be watching yourself on nightly television."

Thanks for the tip, Donald.

Mashable reached out to The Trump Organization for comment on hotel camera policy.