Carrie Fisher Will Reportedly Appear in 'Star Wars: Episode IX'
Carrie Fisher Will Reportedly Appear in 'Star Wars: Episode IX' 
Carrie Fisher's death was not just a loss for friends and family, it was assumed to be the end for one of the most iconic female characters in history. But her brother says Princess Leia fans shouldn't fear, and claims she'll be appearing in the forthcoming It just wouldn't have seemed right for the Star Wars saga to continue on without Leia, and for the time being it won't have to. Todd Fisher insisted after having conversations with Carrie's daughter that the family has given their blessing to keep her at the forefront of the series. As her brother mentions, Fisher's General Leia character wouldn't be the first in the Star Wars universe to continue to play a role after the audience thought they'd passed on. Luke Skywalker was guided by the spirits of fallen Jedi during his quest in the original trilogy, and we could very well see similar storytelling techniques used again in and/or While it's an admirable enough goal to keep her legacy alive, the execution is going to be exceedingly hard to pull off. Previous deaths of major characters in the series weren't driven by real-life circumstances, which made it much easier for people like Obi-Wan Kenobi to "live on" through The Force. Fisher will reportedly not be recreated using CGI, which adds another extra layer of difficulty to keeping her around. No one is quite ready to let go of Fisher and the transcendent character she played in the universe, so here's hoping Disney and Lucasfilm find a tasteful way to send her out.

Carrie Fisher's death was not just a loss for friends and family, it was assumed to be the end for one of the most iconic female characters in history. But her brother says Princess Leia fans shouldn't fear, and claims she'll be appearing in the forthcoming Star Wars: Episode IX.

It just wouldn't have seemed right for the Star Wars saga to continue on without Leia, and for the time being it won't have to. Todd Fisher insisted after having conversations with Carrie's daughter that the family has given their blessing to keep her at the forefront of the series.

Both of us were like, ‘Yes, how do you take her out of it?’ And the answer is you don't. She’s as much a part of it as anything and I think her presence now is even more powerful than it was, like Obi Wan — when the saber cuts him down he becomes more powerful. I feel like that's what's happened with Carrie. I think the legacy should continue.

As her brother mentions, Fisher's General Leia character wouldn't be the first in the Star Wars universe to continue to play a role after the audience thought they'd passed on. Luke Skywalker was guided by the spirits of fallen Jedi during his quest in the original trilogy, and we could very well see similar storytelling techniques used again in Episode IX and/or The Last Jedi.

While it's an admirable enough goal to keep her legacy alive, the execution is going to be exceedingly hard to pull off. Previous deaths of major characters in the series weren't driven by real-life circumstances, which made it much easier for people like Obi-Wan Kenobi to "live on" through The Force. Fisher will reportedly not be recreated using CGI, which adds another extra layer of difficulty to keeping her around.

No one is quite ready to let go of Fisher and the transcendent character she played in the Star Wars universe, so here's hoping Disney and Lucasfilm find a tasteful way to send her out.