ANALYSIS: Retail takes a hit in disappointing jobs report
ANALYSIS: Retail takes a hit in disappointing jobs report
Shares               This was a disappointing jobs report. Hiring slowed dramatically in March, with the U.S. economy creating just 98,000 jobs, about half of the 180,000 economists were forecasting. It was also the weakest job creation since May 2016. Moreover, the January and February numbers were revised lower by a combined 38,000 jobs (in January the economy created 216,000 jobs, not 238,000; while in February the number was 219,000, not 235,000). The bright spot was the unemployment rate itself, which continues to drop. In March, the unemployment rate fell from 4.7 percent to 4.5 percent, the lowest level since May 2007. Economists believe an unemployment rate between 4-5 percent represents full employment – as in, anyone who wants a job has one. March also marks the 78th consecutive month of job growth – the longest since official record keeping began in 1939. Lindsey Piegza, chief economist at Stifel Fixed Income, called the March report "a mixed bag.”   One glaring trend forming in the data is the weakness in retail jobs. In March, retail lost 29,700 jobs. In February, the industry lost 30,000. You can call it the Amazon effect, or the impact of automation, but it’s clear retail is facing major pain right now and that pain is likely to continue with more bankruptcies and store closures. And what might this weakness in retail mean for the border adjustment tax? Many believe the tax would hit retailers hardest, especially apparel retailers who import the majority of their goods. This jobs report also calls into question some of the recent softer data, showing businesses and consumers feeling optimistic. Does that optimism translate into action? Investing in your company, hiring more workers, or consuming more things? Maybe not. And while average hourly earnings are still rising, up 5 cents in March to $26.14, the amount earnings are growing by is slowing down. Some analysts believe the major storm on the East Coast in March skewed some of the figures and are waiting to see what happens in the April data. Construction, for example, which gained 59,000 jobs in February, added just 6,000 in March. Were they off because of the blizzard? Or is demand for new construction slowing - a sign that the economy is also slowing? Investors are taking a wait-and-see approach. Shares                  ANALYSIS: Retail takes a hit in disappointing jobs report   Warplanes strike Syrian town where chemical attack killed dozens, activists say   Man journeys from living under a bridge to Boston Marathon   Joining high court, the real Neil Gorsuch set to stand up   Trump: 'Only time will tell' on improving US-China trade   Could Rikers Island spell relief for busy LaGuardia Airport?   Housing options help autistic adults find independence   Republicans hope Trump amenable to food stamp restrictions   Mandated police reform could make Baltimore 'less safe,' AG says   California governor declares historic drought over for now   Trump's pick to lead border security wins support from Bush- and Obama-era officials   FBI, Homeland Security consider possible retaliations following Syria strike   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Tales from the border: 2 weeks along the US-Mexico frontier   Seattle mayor denies sex abuse claims - 'simply not true'   Dalai Lama says it's for people to decide fate of his office   Myanmar ferry capsizes; 20 dead, over a dozen missing   4 dead after plane crashes while approaching Oregon airport   Police respond to gun threat at high school in west Indiana   NCIS: 27 suspected of 'criminal activity' in nude photos of female Marines   Hawaiian officials fear infections of rare parasitic worm will increase   FBI searching for gun-store robbery suspect who sent manifesto to Trump   Suspect in Stockholm attack identified as Uzbekistan-born man: Police   Deliberations begin in ex-NFL star's double-murder trial   MTV gets rid of gender-specific categories for awards   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt

This was a disappointing jobs report.

Hiring slowed dramatically in March, with the U.S. economy creating just 98,000 jobs, about half of the 180,000 economists were forecasting. It was also the weakest job creation since May 2016.

Moreover, the January and February numbers were revised lower by a combined 38,000 jobs (in January the economy created 216,000 jobs, not 238,000; while in February the number was 219,000, not 235,000).

The bright spot was the unemployment rate itself, which continues to drop. In March, the unemployment rate fell from 4.7 percent to 4.5 percent, the lowest level since May 2007. Economists believe an unemployment rate between 4-5 percent represents full employment – as in, anyone who wants a job has one.

March also marks the 78th consecutive month of job growth – the longest since official record keeping began in 1939. Lindsey Piegza, chief economist at Stifel Fixed Income, called the March report "a mixed bag.”

One glaring trend forming in the data is the weakness in retail jobs. In March, retail lost 29,700 jobs. In February, the industry lost 30,000.

You can call it the Amazon effect, or the impact of automation, but it’s clear retail is facing major pain right now and that pain is likely to continue with more bankruptcies and store closures.

And what might this weakness in retail mean for the border adjustment tax? Many believe the tax would hit retailers hardest, especially apparel retailers who import the majority of their goods.

This jobs report also calls into question some of the recent softer data, showing businesses and consumers feeling optimistic. Does that optimism translate into action? Investing in your company, hiring more workers, or consuming more things? Maybe not.

And while average hourly earnings are still rising, up 5 cents in March to $26.14, the amount earnings are growing by is slowing down.

Some analysts believe the major storm on the East Coast in March skewed some of the figures and are waiting to see what happens in the April data. Construction, for example, which gained 59,000 jobs in February, added just 6,000 in March. Were they off because of the blizzard? Or is demand for new construction slowing - a sign that the economy is also slowing?

Investors are taking a wait-and-see approach.