Basically every college student has Netflix (but guess how many pay for it)
Basically every college student has Netflix (but guess how many pay for it)
The checklist for college freshmen in 2017? Textbooks, mini-fridges, and Netflix. A new study reports that a whopping 92 percent of college students have access to Netflix. In that same survey by LendEDU, only 8 percent of college students said that they didn't have an account. The rest have their own account (34 percent), use a friend or family member's account (54 percent), or use a current or former significant other's account (5 percent). The survey, spotted by , suggests that Netflix is basically a necessity—or at least a given—for college students. Another survey question backs that up: when they had to pick one streaming service, 84 percent of the 6,660 college students surveyed chose Netflix. HBO GO came next with 12 percent, and just 4 percent said Hulu (Amazon didn't factor into the survey). LendEDU surveyed college students over a full year and a half—from October 2015 to April 2017. So maybe Hulu or HBO GO would do better now? Either way, 18- to 22-year-olds expect to have Netflix. And if the 54 percent who rely on their family accounts ever get kicked off, Netflix could get a whole bunch of new customers. The 8 percent who don't have Netflix must be busy studying, or something. In a remote part of the earth. Where there is no internet. WATCH: People attempt to sing the 'Stranger Things' theme song...it's both awkward and amazing

The checklist for college freshmen in 2017? Textbooks, mini-fridges, and Netflix.

A new study reports that a whopping 92 percent of college students have access to Netflix. In that same survey by LendEDU, only 8 percent of college students said that they didn't have an account. The rest have their own account (34 percent), use a friend or family member's account (54 percent), or use a current or former significant other's account (5 percent).

The survey, spotted by Business Insider, suggests that Netflix is basically a necessity—or at least a given—for college students. Another survey question backs that up: when they had to pick one streaming service, 84 percent of the 6,660 college students surveyed chose Netflix. HBO GO came next with 12 percent, and just 4 percent said Hulu (Amazon didn't factor into the survey).

LendEDU surveyed college students over a full year and a half—from October 2015 to April 2017. So maybe Hulu or HBO GO would do better now?

Either way, 18- to 22-year-olds expect to have Netflix. And if the 54 percent who rely on their family accounts ever get kicked off, Netflix could get a whole bunch of new customers.

The 8 percent who don't have Netflix must be busy studying, or something. In a remote part of the earth. Where there is no internet.