Athletes, fans honor Stockholm truck attack victims
Athletes, fans honor Stockholm truck attack victims
Shares                Swedish athletes competing in soccer, ice hockey and swimming have observed a minute of silence for the victims of Friday's deadly truck attack in Stockholm. Swedish media showed teams and supporters in the country's top soccer leagues, in the highest division hockey league, and at a swimming event standing silently shoulder-to-shoulder before kick-off. Dennis Fredriksson of the Swim Stockholm Open 2017 competition told Swedish broadcaster SVT that participants "were all quite shaken by what had happened" but it was "obvious to all" not to give in and cancel. The four-day event host swimmers from over 25 countries. Soccer players with the Allsvenskan and second-tier Superettan divisions were wearing black arm bands during weekend games. In Spain , Real Madrid players observed a minute of silence before their match against Atletico de Madrid. Shares                  Athletes, fans honor Stockholm truck attack victims   Trump defends decision not to hit runway on Syrian airbase   Obama aides push back against criticism of inaction on Syria   1 dead, 2 wounded in shooting at gym in upscale Florida mall   Omarosa weds Pastor John Allen Newman at Trump's DC hotel   Man journeys from living under a bridge to Boston Marathon   Joining high court, the real Neil Gorsuch set to stand up   Trump: 'Only time will tell' on improving US-China trade   Alabama governor faces impeachment hearings after ruling   Could Rikers Island spell relief for busy LaGuardia Airport?   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Mandated police reform could make Baltimore 'less safe,' AG says   California governor declares historic drought over for now   Trudeau to mark 100 years of Vimy battle that defined Canada   Tales from the border: 2 weeks along the US-Mexico frontier   Seattle mayor denies sex abuse claims - 'simply not true'   Dalai Lama says it's for people to decide fate of his office   FBI, Homeland Security consider possible retaliations following Syria strike   Myanmar ferry capsizes; 20 dead, over a dozen missing   FBI searching for gun-store robbery suspect who sent manifesto to Trump   Suspect in Stockholm attack identified as Uzbekistan-born man: Police   Police respond to gun threat at high school in west Indiana   Vin Diesel denies feud with Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt

Swedish athletes competing in soccer, ice hockey and swimming have observed a minute of silence for the victims of Friday's deadly truck attack in Stockholm.

Swedish media showed teams and supporters in the country's top soccer leagues, in the highest division hockey league, and at a swimming event standing silently shoulder-to-shoulder before kick-off.

Dennis Fredriksson of the Swim Stockholm Open 2017 competition told Swedish broadcaster SVT that participants "were all quite shaken by what had happened" but it was "obvious to all" not to give in and cancel. The four-day event host swimmers from over 25 countries.

Soccer players with the Allsvenskan and second-tier Superettan divisions were wearing black arm bands during weekend games.

In Spain, Real Madrid players observed a minute of silence before their match against Atletico de Madrid.