The Purge is cancelled: Hackers unleash sirens of doom on Dallas
The Purge is cancelled: Hackers unleash sirens of doom on Dallas
When it finally happens, the end of the world will likely begin like this: with wailing sirens tearing through the night sky sending chills down your spine as you contemplate if you've lived a good and meaningful life. Thankfully, we're not there yet, but if you live in Dallas, Texas, you got a preview of that terrifying moment on Friday night. SEE ALSO: Goodbye internet privacy, we hardly knew you Beginning around 11:44 p.m., all 156 of the outdoor warning sirens meant to alert the residents of Dallas (population 1.3 million) of impending disaster bellowed across the city. There was no immediate explanation, and the sirens didn't stop. Many people, naturally, found the sirens unsettling and some took to Twitter to post video of the incident while the city collectively wondered what impending doom the sirens might be warning of. Ever wonder what the end of the world feels like? #dallas  #sirens  pic.twitter.com/dvokKWkZ6N — ManicPixieDreamGay (@deadlyblonde) April 8, 2017 DFW police scanner...sirens going off due to "malfunction", not a Civil Defense emergency. Repeat, WWIII has not begun. #Dallas  #Sirens — Kevin Moore (@Kevrmoore) April 8, 2017 #sirens There is no way this is an accident. I've lived here for 43 years and never experienced this. #sirenhack — Dallas Cat (@SammyNoBrains73) April 8, 2017 When city officials finally attempted to calm the nerves those wondering what the hell was going on they said the system malfunctioned. But that didn't stop the speculation, or the dark humor. It's the Russians 💀 #Dallas  #sirens  pic.twitter.com/lBn2JcrJJX — Isaac ✌️ (@afro_puffs) April 8, 2017 Im too tired for the Purge right now, can we wait until tomorrow? #Dallas  #Sirens — SrBilyon Harris (@Srbharris) April 8, 2017 When #sirens keep going off in Dallas and they keep telling us it's a malfunction in the system. pic.twitter.com/sfHGQq2beq — Amy Junod (@AmyJunod) April 8, 2017 Dallas - if this is the start of The Purge,  I'm gonna need something in writing before it starts...Just for legal reasons ya know. #sirens — The DJ (@djtil) April 8, 2017 #sirens in Dallas.... has me like thinking..... pic.twitter.com/KhaOj9eMTp — Pedro Mahammad (@dRofbgm) April 8, 2017 So I can put my guns back in their hiding places because we aren't being invaded? https://t.co/XqnbBDkVsD — Ravus Nox Fleuret (@Mr_DelRey) April 8, 2017 Dallas's fire dispatch and its office of emergency management pulled the plug on the sirens, after more than an hour and a half of blaring, at about 1:20 a.m. But the sirens weren't signaling the end of the world (or end of Dallas), and they were malfunctioning, as early reports indicated. The panic was the result of a hacking attack on the city's emergency alert system. "It does appear at this time that it was a hack, and we do believe that this came from the Dallas area," officials from the City of Dallas Office of Emergency Management office confirmed to the media via Facebook on Saturday. "We can't talk a whole lot about the hack itself, because obviously we don’t want this to happen again." In order to get the sirens to stop, the city had to disconnect the system, which had been triggered to activate the sirens over 60 times. The system is still down and the city is relying on other mass notification systems including reverse 911 and social media for emergencies. Dallas is located in a part of the U.S. often referred to as "tornado alley" due to the high frequency of tornadoes, and those sirens are often used to warn residents of an impending tornado event. So while most of the jokes and concerns on social media didn’t mention much about weather, because of their traditional use, locals take those sirens very seriously. The city hopes to have the alert system back up and running by Sunday night or Monday afternoon. WATCH: Fox News anchor criticized for dramatic hurricane warning

When it finally happens, the end of the world will likely begin like this: with wailing sirens tearing through the night sky sending chills down your spine as you contemplate if you've lived a good and meaningful life.

Thankfully, we're not there yet, but if you live in Dallas, Texas, you got a preview of that terrifying moment on Friday night.

Beginning around 11:44 p.m., all 156 of the outdoor warning sirens meant to alert the residents of Dallas (population 1.3 million) of impending disaster bellowed across the city.

There was no immediate explanation, and the sirens didn't stop.

Many people, naturally, found the sirens unsettling and some took to Twitter to post video of the incident while the city collectively wondered what impending doom the sirens might be warning of.

DFW police scanner...sirens going off due to "malfunction", not a Civil Defense emergency. Repeat, WWIII has not begun. #Dallas #Sirens — Kevin Moore (@Kevrmoore) April 8, 2017

#sirens There is no way this is an accident. I've lived here for 43 years and never experienced this. #sirenhack — Dallas Cat (@SammyNoBrains73) April 8, 2017

When city officials finally attempted to calm the nerves those wondering what the hell was going on they said the system malfunctioned. But that didn't stop the speculation, or the dark humor.

Im too tired for the Purge right now, can we wait until tomorrow? #Dallas #Sirens — SrBilyon Harris (@Srbharris) April 8, 2017

When #sirens keep going off in Dallas and they keep telling us it's a malfunction in the system. pic.twitter.com/sfHGQq2beq — Amy Junod (@AmyJunod) April 8, 2017

Dallas - if this is the start of The Purge, I'm gonna need something in writing before it starts...Just for legal reasons ya know. #sirens — The DJ (@djtil) April 8, 2017

So I can put my guns back in their hiding places because we aren't being invaded? https://t.co/XqnbBDkVsD — Ravus Nox Fleuret (@Mr_DelRey) April 8, 2017

Dallas's fire dispatch and its office of emergency management pulled the plug on the sirens, after more than an hour and a half of blaring, at about 1:20 a.m.

But the sirens weren't signaling the end of the world (or end of Dallas), and they were not malfunctioning, as early reports indicated. The panic was the result of a hacking attack on the city's emergency alert system.

"It does appear at this time that it was a hack, and we do believe that this came from the Dallas area," officials from the City of Dallas Office of Emergency Management office confirmed to the media via Facebook on Saturday. "We can't talk a whole lot about the hack itself, because obviously we don’t want this to happen again."

In order to get the sirens to stop, the city had to disconnect the system, which had been triggered to activate the sirens over 60 times. The system is still down and the city is relying on other mass notification systems including reverse 911 and social media for emergencies.

Dallas is located in a part of the U.S. often referred to as "tornado alley" due to the high frequency of tornadoes, and those sirens are often used to warn residents of an impending tornado event. So while most of the jokes and concerns on social media didn’t mention much about weather, because of their traditional use, locals take those sirens very seriously.

The city hopes to have the alert system back up and running by Sunday night or Monday afternoon.