Tony Romo is Coming Out of Retirement to Join the Dallas Mavericks
Tony Romo is Coming Out of Retirement to Join the Dallas Mavericks 
Tony Romo's professional sports retirement lasted less than a week. Just days after bowing out of the NFL to take a high-profile job with CBS Sports, Romo is taking a crack at another sport: basketball. According to a report from ESPN's Marc Stein, the Dallas Mavericks are going to allow Tony Romo to suit up for the team's home finale against the Denver Nuggets. Mavericks owner Mark Cuban wants to pay tribute to Romo's prolific career as a member of the Dallas Cowboys, and the team is taking it beyond putting a montage on the Jumbotron : With starting point guard Seth Curry ailing in recent days and officially out for the rest of the season because of a shoulder ailment, Mavericks owner Mark Cuban has said on multiple occasions over the past week that the club would be looking to add "a pass-first point guard" before playing out the season's final five days. People within the organization, sources tell ESPN, say he has been referring to Romo. Though this is meant to honor Romo, Stein claims the Mavericks are going to treat him like an actual player on the roster for the day of the game; he will be in uniform and seated alongside other Mavericks players. Twitter treated the recent retiree accordingly, and lampooned his Cowboys career through the lens of his upcoming cup of coffee with the Mavs: Here's hoping Tony Romo doesn't break his collarbone not playing for the Dallas Mavericks. @SportsCenter What is this make a wish @SportsCenter So, they're honoring him by letting him dress in a Dallas uniform and sit on the bench...isn't that what he did last year with the Cowboys? The Dallas Mavericks were able to get Tony Romo to suit up before the Houston Texans  😏 https://t.co/XmbXicPJgo If you scour through the YouTube footage, Romo's hoops game actually isn't too shabby! There's video from 2007 of him getting buckets in a church league game, and he played former Duke guard Quinn Cook in a no-defense game of one-on-one a couple years back:  Romo sportstips@complex.com

Tony Romo's professional sports retirement lasted less than a week. Just days after bowing out of the NFL to take a high-profile job with CBS Sports, Romo is taking a crack at another sport: basketball.

According to a report from ESPN's Marc Stein, the Dallas Mavericks are going to allow Tony Romo to suit up for the team's home finale against the Denver Nuggets. Mavericks owner Mark Cuban wants to pay tribute to Romo's prolific career as a member of the Dallas Cowboys, and the team is taking it beyond putting a montage on the Jumbotron:

With starting point guard Seth Curry ailing in recent days and officially out for the rest of the season because of a shoulder ailment, Mavericks owner Mark Cuban has said on multiple occasions over the past week that the club would be looking to add "a pass-first point guard" before playing out the season's final five days. People within the organization, sources tell ESPN, say he has been referring to Romo.

Though this is meant to honor Romo, Stein claims the Mavericks are going to treat him like an actual player on the roster for the day of the game; he will be in uniform and seated alongside other Mavericks players. Twitter treated the recent retiree accordingly, and lampooned his Cowboys career through the lens of his upcoming cup of coffee with the Mavs:

Here's hoping Tony Romo doesn't break his collarbone not playing for the Dallas Mavericks. — Chris Walder (@WalderSports) April 8, 2017

@SportsCenter What is this make a wish — phillip Berman (@thebermanator9) April 8, 2017

@SportsCenter So, they're honoring him by letting him dress in a Dallas uniform and sit on the bench...isn't that what he did last year with the Cowboys? — Price Blissit (@Dpblissit) April 8, 2017

The Dallas Mavericks were able to get Tony Romo to suit up before the Houston Texans



😏 https://t.co/XmbXicPJgo — Tim England (@tengland150) April 8, 2017

If you scour through the YouTube footage, Romo's hoops game actually isn't too shabby! There's video from 2007 of him getting buckets in a church league game, and he played former Duke guard Quinn Cook in a no-defense game of one-on-one a couple years back:



None of this means he can cut it at the NBA level or anywhere close, but give this much to Romo: his retirement plans are much cooler than ours.

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.