Trashy TV can reveal the ugly truths about domestic violence

here’s a kind of satisfaction when glamour gets chipped like varnish, and the dirty fingernail beneath is revealed. This is part of the appeal of the television show , a seven-part melodrama in which Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman play “stay-at-home” mums, with big cars and secrets. We’re half way through the series now and, against the backdrop of a mysterious death, a school scandal and a very expensive ocean view, there is a disturbing story unfolding about an abusive relationship hidden by make-up and manipulation. We’re there for the violent sex, the husband’s jealousy and the moments when Celeste (played by Kidman) screams alone in an empty car. Which means the scariest thing about this programme isn’t the murder mystery, but the fog of sexual violence that is settling. We’ve seen domestic abuse on TV before, but never quite like this. Never with a woman who exhibits no self-doubt, who is educated, wealthy, who is not isolated, and who does not want to leave. “We both become violent sometimes. I take my share of the blame,” she tells her therapist. “I’m not a victim here.” Even Celeste, who pulls down her sleeves in the beating Californian sun, doesn’t realise that women in abusive relationships can appear as independent and collected as she does, or as a successful parent. Even when she watches her dashing husband Perry play “monster” with their kids. When Perry (played by Alexander Skarsgård) grabs her neck as one of their twins is walking in, she rearranges her face just in time to look like their mother again. In this week’s episode, we realised that Perry had forced Celeste, whose waxy perfection is an unslipping mask, to give up her job as a lawyer, and with it her identity, in order to become a Mother. And this will kill her, if he doesn’t kill her first. Being a Mother (as opposed to one with a smaller “m”) means sacrifice – of ambition, sleep, an inner life in which to retreat and question. It means that by the time you do question your life – perhaps in a lonely second standing at the sink eating your child’s leftovers in place of a meal – and wonder whether it’s possible to keep elements of your earlier self and still keep your family happy, then you will find yourself falling down a plughole of guilt. And it’s from this position of subservience and doubt that she (and presumably a number of the people watching; here is a show that never lets you forget one in three women will experience relationship violence in their lives) has learned to normalise her husband’s abuse. Perry has scooped out the parts of Celeste that would make her fight back. The sex – the sex which her friends whisper about with a deaf jealousy – is rough and angry and ambiguously consensual. After maybe-raping Celeste, Perry gives her a diamond necklace. This isn’t one of those programmes that offers a helpline as the credits roll, if you’ve been affected by the issues raised. But so often it’s in these “women’s stories”, dismissed eternally by critics, these soaps, these chat shows aimed at housewives, where the home is the stage for a hundred dramas, that we learn about violence. Although it’s impossible to quantify the impact that television has on the real lives of people in pain, after listeners to heard Rob Titchener abuse his wife Helen last year they raised £172,000 for Refuge , and 25,000 people sought online help on the BBC website. And, of course, , while fondly thought of as classic trash, featured a woman who was abused and had an abortion (illegal at the time) to terminate the resultant pregnancy. It’s in these shows that the nuance of abuse is described so seductively, in ways that reveal the cycles of control, the decorative patterns of power, and the lies friends tell to cover up bruises. It makes sense that the programmes made for women should be the ones to explore what it means to be a woman with skill and depth. The problem is that many viewers, especially men, see the gloss and the glamour of a show like this and think it will go no deeper than the topcoat.  Domestic violence   The Eva Wiseman column   Soap opera   Drama   Television   comment

There’s a kind of satisfaction when glamour gets chipped like varnish, and the dirty fingernail beneath is revealed. This is part of the appeal of the television show Big Little Lies, a seven-part melodrama in which Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman play “stay-at-home” mums, with big cars and secrets. We’re half way through the series now and, against the backdrop of a mysterious death, a school scandal and a very expensive ocean view, there is a disturbing story unfolding about an abusive relationship hidden by make-up and manipulation.

We’re there for the violent sex, the husband’s jealousy and the moments when Celeste (played by Kidman) screams alone in an empty car. Which means the scariest thing about this programme isn’t the murder mystery, but the fog of sexual violence that is settling.

We’ve seen domestic abuse on TV before, but never quite like this. Never with a woman who exhibits no self-doubt, who is educated, wealthy, who is not isolated, and who does not want to leave. “We both become violent sometimes. I take my share of the blame,” she tells her therapist. “I’m not a victim here.”

Even Celeste, who pulls down her sleeves in the beating Californian sun, doesn’t realise that women in abusive relationships can appear as independent and collected as she does, or as a successful parent. Even when she watches her dashing husband Perry play “monster” with their kids. When Perry (played by Alexander Skarsgård) grabs her neck as one of their twins is walking in, she rearranges her face just in time to look like their mother again.

In this week’s episode, we realised that Perry had forced Celeste, whose waxy perfection is an unslipping mask, to give up her job as a lawyer, and with it her identity, in order to become a Mother. And this will kill her, if he doesn’t kill her first. Being a Mother (as opposed to one with a smaller “m”) means sacrifice – of ambition, sleep, an inner life in which to retreat and question. It means that by the time you do question your life – perhaps in a lonely second standing at the sink eating your child’s leftovers in place of a meal – and wonder whether it’s possible to keep elements of your earlier self and still keep your family happy, then you will find yourself falling down a plughole of guilt.

And it’s from this position of subservience and doubt that she (and presumably a number of the people watching; here is a show that never lets you forget one in three women will experience relationship violence in their lives) has learned to normalise her husband’s abuse.

Perry has scooped out the parts of Celeste that would make her fight back. The sex – the sex which her friends whisper about with a deaf jealousy – is rough and angry and ambiguously consensual. After maybe-raping Celeste, Perry gives her a diamond necklace.

This isn’t one of those programmes that offers a helpline as the credits roll, if you’ve been affected by the issues raised. But so often it’s in these “women’s stories”, dismissed eternally by critics, these soaps, these chat shows aimed at housewives, where the home is the stage for a hundred dramas, that we learn about violence.

Although it’s impossible to quantify the impact that television has on the real lives of people in pain, after listeners to The Archers heard Rob Titchener abuse his wife Helen last year they raised £172,000 for Refuge, and 25,000 people sought online help on the BBC website. And, of course, Peyton Place, while fondly thought of as classic trash, featured a woman who was abused and had an abortion (illegal at the time) to terminate the resultant pregnancy.

It’s in these shows that the nuance of abuse is described so seductively, in ways that reveal the cycles of control, the decorative patterns of power, and the lies friends tell to cover up bruises. It makes sense that the programmes made for women should be the ones to explore what it means to be a woman with skill and depth. The problem is that many viewers, especially men, see the gloss and the glamour of a show like this and think it will go no deeper than the topcoat.

Email Eva at e.wiseman@observer.co.uk or follow her on Twitter @EvaWiseman