When And How You Should Ask For A Raise: The Dos And Don'ts
When And How You Should Ask For A Raise: The Dos And Don'ts
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  David Sturt and Todd Nordstrom       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Asking for a raise is almost always stressful. Is there a right time to ask? Are there certain ways to approach your boss that work better than others? The answer is yes. Here are few best-practice tips we’ve picked up over the years. Shutterstock It can be the most daunting of all discussions, even if you have a great relationship with your boss. For some reason, you don’t have a problem standing your ground when it comes to your opinions about a project.  You don’t have a problem setting boundaries. But, when it comes to asking for a raise, why is it so difficult? If you feel this way, you’re not alone in finding the conversation of asking for a raise daunting. While the two of us love talking to people about work, leadership, appreciation, and achieving success, we can’t express the number of times people—even leaders—have asked us, “Do you have any advice on how I should ask for a raise?” Just last week, in fact, a friend was talking to David about the improving economy and how her company was witnessing major growth. “I’ve worked at my job since the recession,” she said. “At the time, I was just happy to have a job. But, now, I feel like I’m underpaid.” Another friend and former coworker of Todd’s also recently asked, “I feel like I’ve done great things at work. Should I wait for my review to ask for a raise? And, what should I say?” Of course, we all want to know that we’re making a difference at work. And, we all want to feel that we’re being paid fairly for the work we do. Your salary can also serve as one indicator of your individual progress in your career.  In other words, it doesn’t feel like your successes matter much if your salary isn’t aligned. So, when and how should you ask for a raise? Obviously, the relationship with your boss can or will effect the outcome of the discussion, but here are a few best practices we’ve found. First, let’s start with “When should you ask for a raise?” Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

It can be the most daunting of all discussions, even if you have a great relationship with your boss. For some reason, you don’t have a problem standing your ground when it comes to your opinions about a project. You don’t have a problem setting boundaries. But, when it comes to asking for a raise, why is it so difficult?

If you feel this way, you’re not alone in finding the conversation of asking for a raise daunting. While the two of us love talking to people about work, leadership, appreciation, and achieving success, we can’t express the number of times people—even leaders—have asked us, “Do you have any advice on how I should ask for a raise?”

Just last week, in fact, a friend was talking to David about the improving economy and how her company was witnessing major growth. “I’ve worked at my job since the recession,” she said. “At the time, I was just happy to have a job. But, now, I feel like I’m underpaid.”

Another friend and former coworker of Todd’s also recently asked, “I feel like I’ve done great things at work. Should I wait for my review to ask for a raise? And, what should I say?”

Of course, we all want to know that we’re making a difference at work. And, we all want to feel that we’re being paid fairly for the work we do. Your salary can also serve as one indicator of your individual progress in your career. In other words, it doesn’t feel like your successes matter much if your salary isn’t aligned.

So, when and how should you ask for a raise? Obviously, the relationship with your boss can or will effect the outcome of the discussion, but here are a few best practices we’ve found.

First, let’s start with “When should you ask for a raise?”