Norway: Police detonate explosive device found in busy Oslo city centre street
Norway: Police detonate explosive device found in busy Oslo city centre street
Popular videos    Syria air strikes ‘will not reduce Assad's military capability’      20 killed after ferry capsizes in Burma      Muslims defy EDL rally by holding tea party for public at mosque      Girl found in Indian jungle was not raised by monkeys, officials say   Norwegian police have detonated an explosive device found outside a busy underground station in central Oslo. Officers evacuated late-night bars and restaurants near the Groenland underground station as bomb disposal experts rushed to the scene. Authorities later said the device was neutralised and a suspect arrested. "The noise from the blast was louder than our explosives themselves would cause," a police spokesman said, while adding that further investigation would be conducted at the scene. The device had appeared to be capable of causing only a limited amount of damage, the police said earlier. Police declined to give information about the suspect. "Every restaurant was being closed," Malin Myrvold, who witnessed the scene from a fourth-storey window, told the Associated Press. "You could see cops in heavy armour going in every store and restaurant. "We were trying to see what was going on. The police were screaming at us to get back inside and stay where we were." In pictures: Stockholm truck attack               In pictures: Stockholm truck attack       3 people dead when a truck crashed into Ahlens department store in central Stockholm, Sweden   Rex        People were killed when a truck crashed into department store Ahlens on Drottninggatan, in central Stockholm   Reuters        Special Police forces work at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Getty Images        Woman is assisted at the scene after a truck crashed into an Ahlens department store in Stockholm   Rex        A policewoman in a gas mask operates at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Getty Images        People react at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Rex        Reports say three people have died after a truck crashed into an Ahlens department store in Stockholm   Rex        Armed police operates at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Getty Images        People react at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Getty Images        Emergency services close to the scene of an incident in Drottninggatan, a street in the centre of Stockholm, Sweden   Lasse Gare/PA Wire        Passers react at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Getty Images        People killed in incident when a truck was driven  into a department store in central Stockholm   Reuters        Police officers work at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Getty Images        A general view shows a Ahlens department store after a truck reportedly crashed into it, at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm, Sweden   EPA        A view of a street after a truck reportedly crashed into a department store in central Stockholm, Sweden   EPA  Norway was put on high alert after neighbouring Sweden suffered a truck attack in the capital Stockholm that killed four people and injured 15. The suspect in Friday's attack, a 39-year-old native of Uzbekistan, has been arrested. More about: Oslo Norway Sweden Stockholm attack Comments

Norwegian police have detonated an explosive device found outside a busy underground station in central Oslo.

Officers evacuated late-night bars and restaurants near the Groenland underground station as bomb disposal experts rushed to the scene.

Authorities later said the device was neutralised and a suspect arrested.

"The noise from the blast was louder than our explosives themselves would cause," a police spokesman said, while adding that further investigation would be conducted at the scene.

Police cordoned off a large area around a station after finding what they described as a 'bomb-like' device, in Oslo, Norway (AP)

The device had appeared to be capable of causing only a limited amount of damage, the police said earlier.

Police declined to give information about the suspect.

"Every restaurant was being closed," Malin Myrvold, who witnessed the scene from a fourth-storey window, told the Associated Press.

"You could see cops in heavy armour going in every store and restaurant.

"We were trying to see what was going on. The police were screaming at us to get back inside and stay where we were."

In pictures: Stockholm truck attack







15 show all In pictures: Stockholm truck attack



























1/15 3 people dead when a truck crashed into Ahlens department store in central Stockholm, Sweden Rex

2/15 People were killed when a truck crashed into department store Ahlens on Drottninggatan, in central Stockholm Reuters

3/15 Special Police forces work at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Getty Images

4/15 Woman is assisted at the scene after a truck crashed into an Ahlens department store in Stockholm Rex

5/15 A policewoman in a gas mask operates at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Getty Images

6/15 People react at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Rex

7/15 Reports say three people have died after a truck crashed into an Ahlens department store in Stockholm Rex

8/15 Armed police operates at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Getty Images

9/15 People react at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Getty Images

10/15 Emergency services close to the scene of an incident in Drottninggatan, a street in the centre of Stockholm, Sweden Lasse Gare/PA Wire

11/15 Passers react at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Getty Images

12/15 People killed in incident when a truck was driven into a department store in central Stockholm Reuters

13/15 Police officers work at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Getty Images

14/15 A general view shows a Ahlens department store after a truck reportedly crashed into it, at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm, Sweden EPA

15/15 A view of a street after a truck reportedly crashed into a department store in central Stockholm, Sweden EPA

Norway was put on high alert after neighbouring Sweden suffered a truck attack in the capital Stockholm that killed four people and injured 15.

The suspect in Friday's attack, a 39-year-old native of Uzbekistan, has been arrested.