Watch The Chainsmokers Perform "Paris" During Their 'SNL' Debut
Watch The Chainsmokers Perform "Paris" During Their 'SNL' Debut
It was a big week of debuts for The Chainsmokers . Just a day after they rolled out their debut studio album , the pop-EDM duo made their first musical appearance on alongside host Louis. C.K. And, as promised, they delivered something new. The Chainsmokers put on the first live performances of "Paris" and "Break Up Every Night." You can watch their debut of "Paris" above. We are performing 'Paris' AND 'Break Up Every Night' tonight!! Weeks before filming began, Andrew Taggart and Alex Pall seemed to be in disbelief over the opportunity, even going as far to question reality. Never in our wildest dreams did I ever think this would be possible! https://t.co/rzn9rQoRUW But for real, is this actually happening... are we dreaming... Louis CK is our favorite comedian, we are playing brand new music on SNL from the album on a show we admired since we were kids! @nbcsnl Though The Chainsmokers were clearly shocked, their gig wasn’t exactly surprising. The NYC duo has been slowly taking over the pop realm, landing on everybody’s radar with their 2014 viral hit “Selfie.” Since then, Taggart and Pall have delivered a number of radio friendly tracks, such as “Roses” and “Don’t Let Me Down”; however, they’re most successful release has been the Halsey-assisted single “Closer,” which dominated the Hot 100 chart for 12 consecutive weeks. “Closer” was also The Chainsmokers—and Halsey’s—first No. 1 song. “It’s crazy because things feel like they’re moving at the speed of light,” Pall told last month. “We won a Grammy [Best Dance Recording for ‘Don’t Let Me Down’]; our lyric video for ‘Something Just Like This’ [featuring Chris Martin] just broke the YouTube record for most views in a day. We don’t get time to absorb these things anymore.” Their debut album is available now on iTunes .

It was a big week of debuts for The Chainsmokers. Just a day after they rolled out their debut studio album Memories … Do Not Open, the pop-EDM duo made their first musical appearance on Saturday Night Live alongside host Louis. C.K. And, as promised, they delivered something new.

The Chainsmokers put on the first live performances of "Paris" and "Break Up Every Night." You can watch their SNL debut of "Paris" above.

We are performing 'Paris' AND 'Break Up Every Night' tonight!! — THE CHAINSMOKERS ( @TheChainsmokers ) April 8, 2017

Weeks before filming began, Andrew Taggart and Alex Pall seemed to be in disbelief over the opportunity, even going as far to question reality.

Never in our wildest dreams did I ever think this would be possible! https://t.co/rzn9rQoRUW — THE CHAINSMOKERS (@TheChainsmokers) March 12, 2017

But for real, is this actually happening... are we dreaming... — THE CHAINSMOKERS (@TheChainsmokers) March 12, 2017

Louis CK is our favorite comedian, we are playing brand new music on SNL from the album on a show we admired since we were kids! @nbcsnl — THE CHAINSMOKERS (@TheChainsmokers) March 12, 2017

Though The Chainsmokers were clearly shocked, their SNL gig wasn’t exactly surprising. The NYC duo has been slowly taking over the pop realm, landing on everybody’s radar with their 2014 viral hit “Selfie.” Since then, Taggart and Pall have delivered a number of radio friendly tracks, such as “Roses” and “Don’t Let Me Down”; however, they’re most successful release has been the Halsey-assisted single “Closer,” which dominated the Hot 100 chart for 12 consecutive weeks. “Closer” was also The Chainsmokers—and Halsey’s—first No. 1 song.

“It’s crazy because things feel like they’re moving at the speed of light,” Pall told NME last month. “We won a Grammy [Best Dance Recording for ‘Don’t Let Me Down’]; our lyric video for ‘Something Just Like This’ [featuring Chris Martin] just broke the YouTube record for most views in a day. We don’t get time to absorb these things anymore.”

Their debut album Memories...Do Not Open is available now on iTunes.