Priyanka Chopra Gets Emotional As She Wins National Award, Posts Old Video Of Her Father To Thank Him
PC Gets Emotional As She Wins National Award, Posts Old Video Of Her Father To Thank Him
Priyanka Chopra Gets Emotional As She Wins National Award, Posts Old Video Of Her Father To Thank Him After her Marathi film Ventilator won three National Awards recently, Priyanka Chopra is riding high on happiness, but at the same time, she is missing sharing this moment of joy with her late father. The actress, who has always credited her father for supporting her to climb the highest step of success, never misses a moment to thank her. And so, when this morning she got to know about her film’s achievement, she thanked her father in an Instagram post. It's the most incredible gift to be born to such wonderful parents. For making all My dreams come true and never letting me settle...My extremely talented, gifted,kind "life of a party" father and my resilient, strong and gentle mother @madhuchopra who is also my producing partner for @purplepebblepictures . I miss u so much dad. What an incredible voice. Always my inspiration. Sharing this throwback video with you all today because I really miss him...And this void will always be my companion.. presenting.. My father..Late Dr. Ashok Chopra. A post shared by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Apr 7, 2017 at 2:14pm PDT   “We made this film for my dad and I couldn’t have done it without Madhu Chopra and my production team! 75 speaking actors! Well done team. Congratulations Rajesh Mapuskar, Rameshwar Bhagat and Alok De,” she said in a statement to IANS. PC’s Marathi film Ventilator has won Best Editing, Best Sound Mixing and also Best Director award. The actress has also crooned a song in the movie. And this is how PC celebrated the joyous moment with her mother Madhu Chopra. Lol... mommy-beti @madhuchopra #proudproducers #happydance #ventilator #nationalfilmawards2017 @purplepebblepictures A post shared by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Apr 7, 2017 at 7:02pm PDT

After her Marathi film Ventilator won three National Awards recently, Priyanka Chopra is riding high on happiness, but at the same time, she is missing sharing this moment of joy with her late father.

ndtvimg.com

The actress, who has always credited her father for supporting her to climb the highest step of success, never misses a moment to thank her. And so, when this morning she got to know about her film’s achievement, she thanked her father in an Instagram post.

“We made this film for my dad and I couldn’t have done it without Madhu Chopra and my production team! 75 speaking actors! Well done team. Congratulations Rajesh Mapuskar, Rameshwar Bhagat and Alok De,” she said in a statement to IANS.

PC’s Marathi film Ventilator has won Best Editing, Best Sound Mixing and also Best Director award. The actress has also crooned a song in the movie.

And this is how PC celebrated the joyous moment with her mother Madhu Chopra.

Lol... mommy-beti @madhuchopra #proudproducers #happydance #ventilator #nationalfilmawards2017 @purplepebblepictures A post shared by Priyanka Chopra (@priyankachopra) on Apr 7, 2017 at 7:02pm PDT

Don't Miss 1.2 K SHARES 6.2 K SHARES 59.7 K SHARES 45 K SHARES 34.2 K SHARES