Stockholm attack suspect was refused residency
Stockholm attack suspect was refused residency - BBC News


Image copyright Swedish police Image caption Police wanted to speak to this man - a suspect matching his description was later arrested

The suspect behind the Stockholm truck attack had been facing deportation, Swedish police say.

The 39-year-old man from Uzbekistan is suspected of having driven a truck into a department store in the city on Friday.

Police said on Sunday the man is known to have had extremist sympathies.

His application for residency was rejected in June last year and he was being sought by immigration officials, police said.

He had been given four weeks to leave the country in December 2016, police chief Jonas Hysing told a press conference. The suspect then disappeared, and police began searching for him, Mr Hysing added.

Four people are confirmed to have died in the attack - two Swedish nationals, a Briton and a Belgian, but police have not released their identities. Another 15 people were injured.

The truck, hijacked from a beer company, was driven into Ahlens department store in the capital on Friday afternoon.

Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption Hundreds of people have gathered for a vigil against terrorism in Stockholm

The suspect, who has not been named, was known to the security services and was arrested later on Friday.

However, he had been seen only as a "marginal character", National Police Commissioner Dan Eliasson said.

Witnesses: Truck was 'trying to hit people'

Is terror threat to Europe greater today?

Sweden has taken in nearly 200,000 refugees and migrants in recent years - more per capita than any other European country.

However, there was a drop in numbers last year after the country introduced new border checks.

Separately, Sweden is believed to have the highest number of Islamic State group fighters per capita in Europe.

About 140 of the 300 who went to Syria and Iraq have since returned, leaving the authorities to grapple with how best to reintegrate them into society.

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What we know about the Stockholm truck attack

Thousands of people have gathered in central Stockholm for a "Lovefest" vigil against terrorism, and have laid flowers outside the Ahlens shop in tribute.