Guy gets nailed in the throat with a pigeon while riding a roller coaster
Guy gets nailed in the throat with a pigeon while riding a roller coaster
The opening of the Ferrari Land theme park at PortAventura Park in Spain started with a truly unfortunate and equally hilarious event when a rider on one of the park's roller coasters collided with a bird. The park, which officially opened to the public on Friday, features the highest and fastest roller coast in Europe, which launches riders to 111 mph in just five seconds . Well, during that speedy acceleration, a rider in the front of the coaster gets nailed right in the throat by a pigeon. The guy seemed equally horrified and confused by the whole thing, and just as the pigeon came into his life, it was gone, brushed aside like an eyelash in the wind. Considering the blood left on the guy's face after the crash, it's safe to say the bird probably didn't survive. Thankfully, the man riding the roller coaster seemed unharmed, and he quickly recovered and converted back to a normal roller coaster rider a few seconds later.

The opening of the Ferrari Land theme park at PortAventura Park in Spain started with a truly unfortunate and equally hilarious event when a rider on one of the park's roller coasters collided with a bird.

The park, which officially opened to the public on Friday, features the highest and fastest roller coast in Europe, which launches riders to 111 mph in just five seconds. Well, during that speedy acceleration, a rider in the front of the coaster gets nailed right in the throat by a pigeon.

The guy seemed equally horrified and confused by the whole thing, and just as the pigeon came into his life, it was gone, brushed aside like an eyelash in the wind.

Considering the blood left on the guy's face after the crash, it's safe to say the bird probably didn't survive. Thankfully, the man riding the roller coaster seemed unharmed, and he quickly recovered and converted back to a normal roller coaster rider a few seconds later.