Church bombing north of Egypt's capital kills 26
At least 25 dead in Egyptian church bombing
Shares                A bomb exploded in a church north of Cairo that was packed with Palm Sunday worshippers, killing at least 26 people and wounding 71 others, officials said. The attack in the Nile Delta town of Tanta was the latest in a series of assaults on Egypt's Christian minority, which makes up around 10 percent of the population and has been repeatedly targeted by Islamic extremists. It comes just weeks before Pope Francis is due to visit the Arab world's most populous country. CBC TV showed footage from inside the Mar Girgis church, where a large number of people gathered around what appeared to be lifeless, bloody bodies covered with papers. Regional Deputy Health Minister Mohammed Sharshar confirmed the toll. No one immediately claimed the attack, which comes a week before Easter. Pope Francis decried the bombing, expressing "deep condolences to my brother, Pope Tawadros II, the Coptic church and all of the dear Egyptian nation." Word of the bombing came as Francis himself was marking Palm Sunday in St. Peter's Square. Grand Sheikh Ahmed el-Tayeb, head of Egypt's Al-Azhar — the leading center of learning in Sunni Islam — likewise condemned the attack, calling it a "despicable terrorist bombing that targeted the lives of innocents." The attack adds to fears that Islamic extremists who have long been battling security forces in the Sinai Peninsula may shift their focus to civilians. An Islamic State affiliate claimed a suicide bombing at a Cairo church in December that killed around 30 people, mostly women, as well as a string of killings in the restive northern Sinai that caused hundreds of Christians to flee to safer areas of the country. The group recently released a video vowing to step up attacks against Christians, who it describes as "infidels" empowering the West against Muslims. A militant group called Liwa al-Thawra claimed responsibility for an April 1 bomb attack targeting a police training center in Tanta, which wounded 16 people. The group, believed to be linked to the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood, has mainly targeted security forces and distanced itself from attacks on Christians. Egypt has struggled to combat a wave of Islamic militancy since the 2013 military overthrow of an elected Islamist president. The Sinai-based IS affiliate has mainly attacked police and soldiers, but has also claimed bombings that killed civilians, including the downing of a Russian passenger plane over the Sinai in 2015, which killed all 224 people on board and devastated Egypt's tourism industry. Egypt's Copts are one of the oldest Christian communities in the Middle East , accounting for around 10 percent of Egypt's 92 million people and have long complained of discrimination. The Copts were largely supportive of the military overthrow of President Mohammed Morsi, a senior Brotherhood figure, and incurred the wrath of many Islamists, who attacked churches and other Christian institutions after his ouster. ——— Associated Press writers Maamoun Youssef and Maggie Michael in Cairo contributed to this report. Shares                  At least 25 dead in Egyptian church bombing   Trump defends decision not to hit runway on Syrian airbase   Pope on Palm Sunday decries suffering from war, terrorism   Obama aides push back against criticism of inaction on Syria   North Korea says Syria airstrikes prove its nukes justified   Official: Ex-gym employee shoots 2 in Florida, kills self   Hot air balloon accident in Turkey kills 1, hurts 6   Omarosa weds Pastor John Allen Newman at Trump's DC hotel   Man journeys from living under a bridge to Boston Marathon   Joining high court, the real Neil Gorsuch set to stand up   Trump: 'Only time will tell' on improving US-China trade   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Alabama governor faces impeachment hearings after ruling   Housing options help autistic adults find independence   Could Rikers Island spell relief for busy LaGuardia Airport?   Mandated police reform could make Baltimore 'less safe,' AG says   California governor declares historic drought over for now   Trudeau to mark 100 years of Vimy battle that defined Canada   Tales from the border: 2 weeks along the US-Mexico frontier   Seattle mayor denies sex abuse claims - 'simply not true'   Dalai Lama says it's for people to decide fate of his office   FBI, Homeland Security consider possible retaliations following Syria strike   Cops in Wisconsin manhunt plan to keep close eye on churches   FBI searching for gun-store robbery suspect who sent manifesto to Trump   Norway police neutralize explosive device, arrest suspect   Suspect in Stockholm attack identified as Uzbekistan-born man: Police   Athletes, fans honor Stockholm truck attack victims   Police respond to gun threat at high school in west Indiana   How Trump responded to Syrian refugee crisis versus the chemical attack   Harry Potter play hopes for magic at Olivier stage awards   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt

A bomb exploded in a church north of Cairo that was packed with Palm Sunday worshippers, killing at least 26 people and wounding 71 others, officials said.

The attack in the Nile Delta town of Tanta was the latest in a series of assaults on Egypt's Christian minority, which makes up around 10 percent of the population and has been repeatedly targeted by Islamic extremists. It comes just weeks before Pope Francis is due to visit the Arab world's most populous country.

CBC TV showed footage from inside the Mar Girgis church, where a large number of people gathered around what appeared to be lifeless, bloody bodies covered with papers. Regional Deputy Health Minister Mohammed Sharshar confirmed the toll.

No one immediately claimed the attack, which comes a week before Easter.

Pope Francis decried the bombing, expressing "deep condolences to my brother, Pope Tawadros II, the Coptic church and all of the dear Egyptian nation." Word of the bombing came as Francis himself was marking Palm Sunday in St. Peter's Square.

Grand Sheikh Ahmed el-Tayeb, head of Egypt's Al-Azhar — the leading center of learning in Sunni Islam — likewise condemned the attack, calling it a "despicable terrorist bombing that targeted the lives of innocents."

The attack adds to fears that Islamic extremists who have long been battling security forces in the Sinai Peninsula may shift their focus to civilians.

An Islamic State affiliate claimed a suicide bombing at a Cairo church in December that killed around 30 people, mostly women, as well as a string of killings in the restive northern Sinai that caused hundreds of Christians to flee to safer areas of the country.

The group recently released a video vowing to step up attacks against Christians, who it describes as "infidels" empowering the West against Muslims.

A militant group called Liwa al-Thawra claimed responsibility for an April 1 bomb attack targeting a police training center in Tanta, which wounded 16 people. The group, believed to be linked to the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood, has mainly targeted security forces and distanced itself from attacks on Christians.

Egypt has struggled to combat a wave of Islamic militancy since the 2013 military overthrow of an elected Islamist president.

The Sinai-based IS affiliate has mainly attacked police and soldiers, but has also claimed bombings that killed civilians, including the downing of a Russian passenger plane over the Sinai in 2015, which killed all 224 people on board and devastated Egypt's tourism industry.

Egypt's Copts are one of the oldest Christian communities in the Middle East, accounting for around 10 percent of Egypt's 92 million people and have long complained of discrimination.

The Copts were largely supportive of the military overthrow of President Mohammed Morsi, a senior Brotherhood figure, and incurred the wrath of many Islamists, who attacked churches and other Christian institutions after his ouster.

———

Associated Press writers Maamoun Youssef and Maggie Michael in Cairo contributed to this report.