Watch Alec Baldwin Compare Trump to Finger Chili on 'Saturday Night Live'
Watch Alec Baldwin Compare Trump to Finger Chili on 'Saturday Night Live'
Watch Alec Baldwin Compare Trump to Finger Chili on 'Saturday Night Live'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  If you didn't know his new movie was in theaters this weekend, you'd think Alec Baldwin had a ton of time to kill -- because he returned to on April 8 with his increasingly mouth-puckery impression of Donald Trump. Baldwin-as-Trump stops by a small town hall to spend a little time with his supporters, and makes a few... unpleasant pledges. "As president, I promise, I'll do everything I can do to make sure you people work in coal for the rest of your lives. And your kids are going to work in coal, and your grandkids, and it's going to be incredible."  A townsperson replies, "All we want are good jobs, they don't have to be in coal." Trump disagrees. "Sorry, hombre, it's all coal. In Trump's America, men work in two places: coal mines and Goldman Sachs." The sketch continued with jokes about the stalled plansÂ to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, and Trump's parade of budget cuts to popular federal programs. "You people stand by me no matter what," Baldwin-as-Trump crows. "It's He concludes, "Keep eating that finger chili, and remember that I'm one of you." Â  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

If you didn't know his new movie The Boss Baby was in theaters this weekend, you'd think Alec Baldwin had a ton of time to kill -- because he returned to Saturday Night Live on April 8 with his increasingly mouth-puckery impression of Donald Trump.



Baldwin-as-Trump stops by a small town hall to spend a little time with his supporters, and makes a few... unpleasant pledges.

"As president, I promise, I'll do everything I can do to make sure you people work in coal for the rest of your lives. And your kids are going to work in coal, and your grandkids, and it's going to be incredible."

A townsperson replies, "All we want are good jobs, they don't have to be in coal."

Trump disagrees. "Sorry, hombre, it's all coal. In Trump's America, men work in two places: coal mines and Goldman Sachs."



The sketch continued with jokes about the stalled plansÂ to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, and Trump's parade of budget cuts to popular federal programs.

"You people stand by me no matter what," Baldwin-as-Trump crows. "It'sÂ like you found a finger in your chili but you still eat the chili because you told everyone how much you love the chili. It's tremendous."

He concludes, "Keep eating that finger chili, and remember that I'm one of you."

Â