Rubio says US can’t defeat ISIS until Syria's Assad is removed
Rubio says US can’t defeat ISIS until Syria's Assad is removed 
Shares               Sen. Marco Rubio said he is "concerned" by a Trump administration official's assertion that there is "no change" in U.S. policy on Syria despite the American airstrike against a Syrian government air base. Rubio, in an interview on ABC's "This Week" Sunday, responded to earlier comments on the show by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson that the U.S. priority in Syria is to defeat ISIS .
“I think that the strategy [Tillerson] seems to be outlining is based on assumptions that aren't going to work," Rubio, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , told ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos . Rather, the Florida Republican said, the U.S. must work to remove Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from power before it can hope to defeat ISIS. "There is no such thing as 'Assad, yes,' but 'ISIS, no,'" Rubio said. "This focus that you can defeat ISIS as long as Assad is there is not true. They are two sides of the same coin." The senator continued: “As long as Bashar al-Assad is in power in Syria, you will have a reason for people to be radicalized in Syria and that's what's going to happen." He added that other extremist groups operating in Syria could later step in to replace ISIS. "In all this about ISIS, there's an al-Qaeda group growing in strength, this al-Nusra coalition, that are prepared to step into the vacuum left behind by a defeated ISIS. You cannot have a stable Syria without jihadist elements on the ground as long as Bashar al-Assad is in power.” Tillerson earlier on "This Week" told Stephanopoulos that the U.S. hopes for a political process in Syria that could bring stability and allow the country's citizens to determine if they want to keep Assad as president. "The Syrian people will lawfully be able to decide the fate of Bashar al-Assad," Tillerson said.     Shares                  Rubio says US can’t defeat ISIS until Syria's Assad is removed   After Syria strikes, Trump officials seem to send mixed signals on Assad   Schiff says Russia is absolutely 'complicit' in Syrian chemical attack   Despite Trump campaign promise, Tillerson didn't discuss paying for border wall with Mexico   'This Week' Transcript 4-9-17: Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, Sen. Marco Rubio, and Rep. Adam Schiff   Trump defends decision not to hit runway on Syrian air base   Tillerson: 'No change' to Syria policy after strike   Officials: Trump demands feuding aides 'work this out'   The path to Devin Nunes stepping aside from Russia probe   What's next in Syria after US strikes   ANALYSIS: 5 political takeaways after the Syria strike   ANALYSIS: Trump redefines own doctrine with Syria strike   Coalition and Syrian rebel forces repel ISIS attack on base   French candidate condemns 'criminal act' by US in Syria   Syrian refugees see glimmer of hope in Trump's policy shift   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom

Sen. Marco Rubio said he is "concerned" by a Trump administration official's assertion that there is "no change" in U.S. policy on Syria despite the American airstrike against a Syrian government air base.

Rubio, in an interview on ABC's "This Week" Sunday, responded to earlier comments on the show by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson that the U.S. priority in Syria is to defeat ISIS. “I think that the strategy [Tillerson] seems to be outlining is based on assumptions that aren't going to work," Rubio, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos.

Rather, the Florida Republican said, the U.S. must work to remove Syrian President Bashar al-Assad from power before it can hope to defeat ISIS.

"There is no such thing as 'Assad, yes,' but 'ISIS, no,'" Rubio said. "This focus that you can defeat ISIS as long as Assad is there is not true. They are two sides of the same coin."

The senator continued: “As long as Bashar al-Assad is in power in Syria, you will have a reason for people to be radicalized in Syria and that's what's going to happen."

He added that other extremist groups operating in Syria could later step in to replace ISIS.

"In all this about ISIS, there's an al-Qaeda group growing in strength, this al-Nusra coalition, that are prepared to step into the vacuum left behind by a defeated ISIS. You cannot have a stable Syria without jihadist elements on the ground as long as Bashar al-Assad is in power.”

Tillerson earlier on "This Week" told Stephanopoulos that the U.S. hopes for a political process in Syria that could bring stability and allow the country's citizens to determine if they want to keep Assad as president.

"The Syrian people will lawfully be able to decide the fate of Bashar al-Assad," Tillerson said.