Monash Medical Centre's sleep laboratory helps kids who struggle through the night



Monash Medical Centre's sleep laboratory helps kids who struggle through the night

Updated

Armine Movsisian often hears her four-year-old daughter, Melina, chattering away after she puts her to bed. Her little voice drifts out across the hall. Sometimes she sings, or counts, or pretends she's reading a book. Sometimes for an hour.

But it wasn't until mother and child shared a bed on a beach holiday that Armine noticed something else: Melina seemed to be stopping breathing and gasping in her sleep.

In the morning, she was struggling to wake up and couldn't get through the day without napping.

The family saw a couple of specialists who suggested Melina might need surgery, a septoplasty.

This is where the sleep study comes in.

"I really, really wanted to do it," says Armine.

"Specialists were talking about tonsils, septoplasty, thyroid … so many different things. This will give us a result and we'll know what to do."

A night in the lab

For a place where sleep is studied, the room where Melina will spend the night is not the cosiest.

Fluorescent lights, a hospital bed. A microphone hangs from the ceiling, a surveillance-style camera keeps watch.

The clinical feel is broken by a Winnie the Pooh picture on the wall and the warmth of paediatric sleep nurse Alice Lee.

Melina gazes at the picture, her attention split between the scene depicted there and a cartoon that's playing on a screen high in the corner.

She got to pick which movie she wanted. As a distraction technique, it works beautifully. Melina is engrossed. For mum Armine, it's a relief.

"I didn't know what to tell her about why we're here. What if I terrify her?"

She was at the dentist recently and he told her an instrument was an elephant that was going to give her a kiss. It freaked her out.

"I said, 'no darling, it's just a camera — he's going to check your broken tooth'. She's very mature. If you just explain to her what's happening, it's much better."

It takes an hour or so to attach all the electrodes and wires that'll give the medical team a detailed picture of what goes on when Melina sleeps.

Pads are attached to her scalp with conductive paste, wires secured with tape against her thigh.

Nail polish is gently removed to attach more wires to her big toe. Nurse Lee chats with her tiny patient as she makes her way methodically around her body, somehow keeping all the wires straight.

By the time she's done, Melina has a second ponytail longer than her own, made of rainbow-coloured wires.

Brave Rapunzel, another of the nurses calls her.

Why do a sleep study?

Melina's doctor is childhood sleep specialist Margot Davey, who heads the Melbourne Children's Sleep Unit at Monash Medical Centre in Clayton.

Dr Davey says a sleep study can help get to the bottom of what's causing a child's sleep problems before resorting to surgical interventions.

"It's important to see whether children suffer from obstructive sleep apnoea, of which the most common symptom is snoring," Dr Davey says.

She says often things can be done to improve a child's or teenager's sleep. The trick is detecting the problem in the first place.

"When kids are less than five years old, parents tend to be in there checking on them a lot more at night.

"It's harder with teenagers. They shut the door."

But even with a young child, Dr Davey says, the littlie might go to bed at 8:00pm, and their parents might check on them when they go to bed themselves at 10:00pm, but by that time the child mightn't have entered dream sleep, which is where breathing problems tend to be most noticeable.

In dream sleep, the muscles relax. It's how we manage not to act out our dreams, Dr Davey says.

But when the upper airway muscles soften, some children can experience recurrent blockages. It can have to do with the shape of the airway or tonsils.

"If you're stopping breathing 15 times an hour, it's like me standing beside you poking you 15 times an hour," Dr Davey says.

"Imagine how you wake up in the morning. It always amazes me how resilient kids are. I look at them and think, gosh, how do you manage that?"

How a sleep study works

A sleep study is kind of like an ever vigilant parent who never goes to sleep and sits by their child's bed all night long, noticing every nuance.

"There's no needles. Nothing hurts," Dr Davey is keen to emphasise.

"We measure brainwave patterns to look at sleep quality and to make sure there are no abnormalities.

"We examine breathing — oxygen levels, carbon dioxide levels, how hard children work to breathe, airflow.

"We also look at their movements and arousals during the night so we can see if they're waking up and what's causing it."

Pads on the face detect eye movements to indicate rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Those under the chin pick up muscle tone because when the body hits dream sleep, the chin relaxes.

Ten to 15 per cent of children regularly snore but some conditions can lead to a drop in oxygen levels overnight. Other patterns can involve disruptive and non-restorative sleep.

The treatment

If they have significant obstructive sleep apnoea, which is the case for three to five per cent of kids the sleep centre sees, often the removal of tonsils and adenoids is the first course of treatment.

"But we need to differentiate those kids who need surgery from those who just snore," Dr Davey says.

"We need to identify the ones who need medical treatment and the ones we ought to just monitor."

Sleep medicine

It was an Australian, Colin Sullivan, who invented the Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) machine often used to treat breathing difficulties during sleep.

However, sleep medicine in Australia in the 80s was in its infancy.

"Now you can open any newspaper and find stories about sleep. It's become incredibly sexy, but back when I started people thought, sleep? What's that?"

So in 1989, Dr Davey ventured overseas to the United States to do a fellowship in the field.

It was at the Boston Children's Hospital at Harvard that she was first exposed to a sleep lab.

"I knew nothing about it and I was fascinated. It was a new field but you could see how it could really help kids and make a huge difference."

Sleep interweaves with so many other aspects of life, and medicine.

"It affects family functioning, behaviour, relationships. Just parenting when everyone's exhausted can be a challenge. It's much better appreciated than 25 years ago," she says.

A common problem

About 1,000 kids stay overnight for a sleep study every year.

Most weeknights, every bed in the sleep unit has a little body in it.

Or not so little. The unit examines newborn babies through to teenagers. But the bulk of its charges are aged two to 12. Most are under eight.

In premature babies, control of breathing can be immature, requiring oxygen.

Children who are obese have increased risk of sleep problems, as do those with developmental problems like Down syndrome or cerebral palsy, and others with small jaws or abnormalities of facial shape.

A third of families will complain of problems with a child's sleep.

"I've learned how important it is not to dismiss a parent's concerns," says Dr Davey.

"You can have children wander in looking perfectly normal but then the physiological changes that come with sleep unmask breathing issues."

An evolution continues

The Melbourne Children's Sleep Unit, established in 1978, evolved through grants for work on conditions including SIDS.

It remains the only paediatric sleep research and clinical facility in Melbourne.

Rehomed in the new Monash Medical Centre building, the unit has better digs including six beds instead of four.

Rooms are bigger and designed to accommodate parent and child more comfortably.

Inbuilt beds for mum or dad replace spring-out camper cots. The space is more child-friendly and has a lot more storage.

And, since their visit, Melina and her parents have received some good news.

The sleep study did not uncover any underlying problems. Melina's snoring will be treated with nasal sprays.

Topics: sleep, sleep-disorders, diseases-and-disorders, health, community-and-society, family-and-children, children, clayton-3168, melbourne-3000, vic

First posted