Definitely-not-Russian hackers just so happen to slam Trump after he bombs a Russian ally
Definitely-not-Russian hackers just so happen to slam Trump after he bombs a Russian ally
Back in August, when Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump were still fighting for the presidency, a hacking group called the Shadow Brokers released secret NSA hacking tools. At the time they claimed they weren't working with the Russian government. Now that claim looks, well, ridiculous. Here's what they said on Saturday, shortly after Donald Trump bombed Syria, a Russian ally. “Respectfully, what the fuck are you doing?" they wrote on Medium . They continued ( everywhere, obviously): "TheShadowBrokers voted for you. TheShadowBrokers supports you. TheShadowBrokers is losing faith in you ...  Is appearing you are abandoning 'your base', 'the movement', and the peoples who getting you elected." "Respectfully, what the fuck are you doing?" This is a very different tone than the group took during the Obama Administration, reported, when they said they were releasing the hacked NSA tools for money, not political causes. The Shadow Brokers—which yes, sounds like a terrible DJ outfit—demanded $600 million for the key to access an encrypted file. That absurd price tag, along with the sophistication of the hack, made it seem like these weren't really crybercriminals looking to make a buck, but instead Putin stooges with bad grammar. The group retired a week before Trump became president, releasing more NSA code as a "final fuck you." Now they've come back from retirement, the same week Trump bombed Syria. The Kremlin, along with Iran, backs Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The U.S. backs some Syrian rebels, but not all of them. It's all very complicated. Anyway, now the Shadow Brokers have released the encrypted files for free, which makes the whole hackers-for-money thing seem very unlikely. They've even offered to hack Sen. John McCain for supporting the missile strike. And while they claim they're not Russian, they do have a message for the president. On Medium, they claimed that Trump's supporters: Just some advice from your friendly neighborhood hackers who are definitely not working for Russia. WATCH: Trump accidentally stood next to Darth Vader and this is why symbolism exists

Back in August, when Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump were still fighting for the presidency, a hacking group called the Shadow Brokers released secret NSA hacking tools.

At the time they claimed they weren't working with the Russian government. Now that claim looks, well, ridiculous.

Here's what they said on Saturday, shortly after Donald Trump bombed Syria, a Russian ally.

“Respectfully, what the fuck are you doing?" they wrote on Medium.

They continued (sic everywhere, obviously):

"TheShadowBrokers voted for you. TheShadowBrokers supports you. TheShadowBrokers is losing faith in you ... Is appearing you are abandoning 'your base', 'the movement', and the peoples who getting you elected."

"Respectfully, what the fuck are you doing?"

This is a very different tone than the group took during the Obama Administration, The Daily Beast reported, when they said they were releasing the hacked NSA tools for money, not political causes.

The Shadow Brokers—which yes, sounds like a terrible DJ outfit—demanded $600 million for the key to access an encrypted file.

That absurd price tag, along with the sophistication of the hack, made it seem like these weren't really crybercriminals looking to make a buck, but instead Putin stooges with bad grammar.

The group retired a week before Trump became president, releasing more NSA code as a "final fuck you."

Now they've come back from retirement, the same week Trump bombed Syria. The Kremlin, along with Iran, backs Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The U.S. backs some Syrian rebels, but not all of them. It's all very complicated.

Anyway, now the Shadow Brokers have released the encrypted files for free, which makes the whole hackers-for-money thing seem very unlikely.

They've even offered to hack Sen. John McCain for supporting the missile strike.

And while they claim they're not Russian, they do have a message for the president. On Medium, they claimed that Trump's supporters:

- Don’t care if you swapped wives with Mr Putin, double down on it, "Putin is not just my firend he is my BFF".



- Don’t care if the election was hacked or rigged, celebrate it "so what if I did, what are you going to do about it".

Just some advice from your friendly neighborhood hackers who are definitely not working for Russia.