Fox uses Trump's 'pussy grabbing tapes to teach employees about harassment'
Fox uses Trump's 'pussy grabbing tapes to teach employees about harassment'
Popular videos    US had 'no conversation' with Mexico about paying for border wall      Trump's grandchildren sing in Mandarin for Chinese President      Labour's John McDonnell says Tom Watson 'wrong' to back US air strikes      British father Chris Bevington named as Stockholm terror victim   Fox has reportedly been using Donald Trump ’s infamous “pussy grabbing” audio recordings to teach people about harassment in the workplace. A 21st Century Fox employee said there was an “audible gasp” in the room after the media company broadcast the president’s widely condemned conversation with Billy Bush which was leaked last Autumn. According to the employee, towards the end of a one-hour seminar last Tuesday, a photo appeared on the big screen which included President Trump, Bush, and actor Arianne Zucker from the 2005 tape. In the widely-circled footage she is referring to, Mr Trump can be heard bragging about groping and making unwanted advances on women. Speaking to host Bush, Mr Trump boasts about making a pass at a married woman before noticing the soap opera actress Arianne Zucker who he then lewdly objectifies. “I better use some Tic Tacs just in case I start kissing her," Mr Trump said. "You know I’m automatically attracted to beautiful – I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re a star they let you do it. You can do anything […] Grab them by the pussy. You can do anything". After the footage was unearthed, Mr Trump initially attempted to dismiss the obscene and degrading comments as nothing more than "locker room" banter but later issued a scripted 90-second long apology for the remarks. Nevertheless, when probed about the comments during the second presidential debate, Mr Trump repeatedly described them as “locker room talk”. According to the , Fox News, a network which has been criticised for its overly favourable coverage of Mr Trump, has been using the leaked tapes in seminars for the past few months. The seminars are said to be led by a human resources executive with a focus on preventing harassment, discrimination and retaliation at work. The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued               The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued    Trump and the media   White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing   Getty Images     Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership   Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC   Getty     Trump and the Mexico wall   People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City   Getty Images     Trump and the Mexico wall   A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border   Getty Images     Trump and abortion   US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York.  US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation   Getty Images     Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline   US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York   Getty Images     Trump and 'Obamacare'   Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California.  The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms   Getty Images  "They went through the scenario of the tape, why it was harassment and why it's something you should report," the employee explained.  "There was an audible gasp in the room, like, 'Can you believe this is happening?' Trump was defended on after that tape came out.... Someone joked about getting fired for harassment and wondering if the defence could be, 'We were only told a behaviour was bad once in a seminar,' but said it was 'just locker room talk' over and over again." A number of popular personalities, including Sean Hannity and Jeanine Pirro, defended Trump in the wake of the leaked tape. What’s more, CEO Roger Ailes was forced to resign last summer after fellow Fox  anchor Gretchen Carlson, filed a lawsuit against Mr Ailes, alleging that he did not renew her contract after she refused sexual advances from him. Carlson and others alleged that Mr Ailes engaged in a pattern of workplace harassment.   Lena Dunham dresses as Donald Trump's 'grabbed pussy' for Halloween A recent exposé reported lead Fox News anchor Bill O'Reilly and his employer had paid five women $13 million to settle allegations of sexual harassment or other inappropriate conduct by Fox's highest rated host. According to the unnamed employee, a human resources executive joked during the harassment seminar that the department handled all of Fox except , so the presentation could not include any information about Mr Ailes or Mr O'Reilly. A Fox News declined to comment on whether Mr Trump was included in the harassment presentation. More about: Fox News Donald Trump Comments

Fox has reportedly been using Donald Trump’s infamous “pussy grabbing” audio recordings to teach people about harassment in the workplace.

A 21st Century Fox employee said there was an “audible gasp” in the room after the media company broadcast the president’s widely condemned Access Hollywood conversation with Billy Bush which was leaked last Autumn.

According to the employee, towards the end of a one-hour seminar last Tuesday, a photo appeared on the big screen which included President Trump, Bush, and actor Arianne Zucker from the 2005 Access Hollywood tape.

In the widely-circled footage she is referring to, Mr Trump can be heard bragging about groping and making unwanted advances on women. Speaking to Access Hollywood host Bush, Mr Trump boasts about making a pass at a married woman before noticing the soap opera actress Arianne Zucker who he then lewdly objectifies.

“I better use some Tic Tacs just in case I start kissing her," Mr Trump said. "You know I’m automatically attracted to beautiful – I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re a star they let you do it. You can do anything […] Grab them by the pussy. You can do anything".

After the Access Hollywood footage was unearthed, Mr Trump initially attempted to dismiss the obscene and degrading comments as nothing more than "locker room" banter but later issued a scripted 90-second long apology for the remarks. Nevertheless, when probed about the comments during the second presidential debate, Mr Trump repeatedly described them as “locker room talk”.

According to the Hollywood Reporter, Fox News, a network which has been criticised for its overly favourable coverage of Mr Trump, has been using the leaked tapes in seminars for the past few months. The seminars are said to be led by a human resources executive with a focus on preventing harassment, discrimination and retaliation at work.

The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued







8 show all The controversial orders Donald Trump has already issued













1/8 Trump and the media White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer takes questions during the daily press briefing Getty Images

2/8 Trump and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Union leaders applaud US President Donald Trump for signing an executive order withdrawing the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations during a meeting in the Roosevelt Room of the White House in Washington DC Getty

3/8 Trump and the Mexico wall People protest against US President Donald Trump's inauguration next to a fake wall with a Mexican national flag and a dummy representing him in Mexico City Getty Images

4/8 Trump and the Mexico wall A US Border Patrol vehicle sits waiting for illegal immigrants at a fence opening near the US-Mexico border near McAllen, Texas. The number of incoming immigrants has surged ahead of the upcoming Presidential inauguration of Donald Trump, who has pledged to build a wall along the US-Mexico border Getty Images

5/8 Trump and abortion US President Donald Trump signs an executive order as Chief of Staff Reince Priebus looks on in the Oval Office of the White House Getty Images

6/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline Opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines hold a rally as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York. US President Donald Trump signed executive orders reviving the construction of two controversial oil pipelines, but said the projects would be subject to renegotiation Getty Images

7/8 Trump and the Dakota Access pipeline US actress and political activist Jane Fonda attends a rally with opponents of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines as they protest US President Donald Trump's executive orders advancing their construction, at Columbus Circle in New York Getty Images

8/8 Trump and 'Obamacare' Nancy Pelosi who is the minority leader of the House of Representatives speaks beside House Democrats at an event to protect the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles, California. The Republican-led US Senate has launched their much-anticipated effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act by passing a budget blueprint which would allow them to begin rolling back the health care reforms Getty Images

"They went through the scenario of the tape, why it was harassment and why it's something you should report," the employee explained. "There was an audible gasp in the room, like, 'Can you believe this is happening?' Trump was defended on Fox News after that tape came out.... Someone joked about getting fired for harassment and wondering if the defence could be, 'We were only told a behaviour was bad once in a seminar,' but Fox News said it was 'just locker room talk' over and over again."

A number of popular Fox News personalities, including Sean Hannity and Jeanine Pirro, defended Trump in the wake of the leaked tape. What’s more, Fox News CEO Roger Ailes was forced to resign last summer after fellow Fox anchor Gretchen Carlson, filed a lawsuit against Mr Ailes, alleging that he did not renew her contract after she refused sexual advances from him. Carlson and others alleged that Mr Ailes engaged in a pattern of workplace harassment.

A recent New York Times exposé reported lead Fox News anchor Bill O'Reilly and his employer had paid five women $13 million to settle allegations of sexual harassment or other inappropriate conduct by Fox's highest rated host.

According to the unnamed employee, a human resources executive joked during the harassment seminar that the department handled all of Fox except Fox News, so the presentation could not include any information about Mr Ailes or Mr O'Reilly.

A Fox News declined to comment on whether Mr Trump was included in the harassment presentation.