Hawaii LGBT couples seek equal access to fertility treatment
Hawaii LGBT couples seek equal access to fertility treatment
Shares                Sean Smith and his husband paid more than $20,000 for a fertility procedure when they decided to have a child using a surrogate mother. They did not know at the time that if they were a heterosexual couple, they might have saved that money. Now, Smith and other members of Hawaii's lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community are lobbying for equal access to the financial help married, heterosexual couples enjoy under state law. They are pushing legislation that would require insurance companies to cover in vitro fertilization for more couples, including making Hawaii the first state to require the coverage for surrogates, which would help male same-sex couples who must use a surrogate. "Now that marriage equality is the law of the land and is accepted, now let's turn to family building, and let's figure out how we fix all these inequities that exist," said Barbara Collura, president and CEO of Resolve, a national organization that advocates for access to fertility treatments. Hawaii is one of eight states that require insurance companies to cover in vitro fertilization, a costly procedure where a doctor retrieves eggs from a woman, combines them with sperm from a man and then implants an embryo into a woman's uterus. But Hawaii's mandate applies only to married heterosexual couples because it covers the medical intervention only if a woman uses sperm from her spouse, leaving the LGBT community and single women behind. "At the end of the visit, I would be going into the office and pulling out my credit card, and other people are probably just walking out and insurance is picking up the tab," Smith said. "We had to borrow money, refinance a second mortgage, and I'm sure there are people who don't even explore the option because the expenses are too great." The measure pending in the Hawaii Legislature removes requirements that the egg and sperm come from a married couple and includes surrogates among the people to be covered. No other state has included surrogates in their laws, Collura said. "It is definitely groundbreaking," Collura said. "And it's an often-overlooked way that people choose to build their family, and it should not be left out. It's great to see that Hawaii is taking the lead." Kaiser Permanente Hawaii opposed the measure, saying the medical provider and insurer does not perform in vitro fertilization with donor eggs or surrogates because of complex legal issues and medical risks. The company asked lawmakers to remove egg donors and surrogates from the bill, saying requiring coverage of additional procedures would raise costs for the company and its customers. A similar measure in Hawaii failed in previous legislative sessions. But aside from Kaiser, the bill has seen little opposition this year. A broad coalition including the American Civil Liberties Union of Hawaii, the Hawaii Civil Rights Commission and the Democratic Party of Hawaii are working with LGBT groups to push for change. The proposal passed the state Senate and is up for a vote in the House this week. Maryland had a law that also excluded same-sex couples until about a year ago, when the Legislature changed the provision so it no longer required using a husband's sperm. That helped lesbian couples, but gay men were still left out because the law didn't cover surrogates, Collura said. Most state mandates limit insurance reimbursement to a certain number of in vitro fertilization trials or allow coverage only after years of infertility. Some states also allow religious or small employers to get out of the requirement. "We need to change these laws," Collura said. "We need to update them and make them so that they are no longer discriminatory." Shares                  Hawaii LGBT couples seek equal access to fertility treatment   After Syria strikes, Trump officials seem to send mixed signals on Assad   French candidate condemns 'criminal act' by US in Syria   Syrian refugees see glimmer of hope in Trump's policy shift   Norway police defuse explosive device, arrest suspect   Thousands protest Serbia presidential outcome for 7th day   Despite Trump campaign promise, Tillerson didn't discuss paying for border wall with Mexico   Police say Equinox gunman who killed 2 had just been fired   Speaker who shuns hardball seeks win after health care loss   Policeman slain in London attack gets Parliament honor   To some, aggressive Justice Dept stance looks like step back   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Oakley set for day in court in wake of MSG arrest   Questions and answers about the Penn Station derailment   Berlin to see its first Jewish campus after the Holocaust   Somalia's new army chief survives car bomb that kills 13   Hot air balloon accident in Turkey kills Frenchman; 7 hurt   North Korea says Syria airstrikes prove its nukes justified   Feds looking beyond Wisconsin for manifesto suspect   Cops in Wisconsin manhunt plan to keep close eye on churches   Schiff says Russia is absolutely 'complicit' in Syrian chemical attack   Trump defends decision not to hit runway on Syrian air base   Father of 9-month-old twins killed in Syrian chemical attack wants more US airstrikes   Joining high court, the real Neil Gorsuch set to stand up   Tenn. mom on a mission to prove daughter's death was no accident   Vin Diesel denies feud with Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt

Sean Smith and his husband paid more than $20,000 for a fertility procedure when they decided to have a child using a surrogate mother. They did not know at the time that if they were a heterosexual couple, they might have saved that money.

Now, Smith and other members of Hawaii's lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community are lobbying for equal access to the financial help married, heterosexual couples enjoy under state law.

They are pushing legislation that would require insurance companies to cover in vitro fertilization for more couples, including making Hawaii the first state to require the coverage for surrogates, which would help male same-sex couples who must use a surrogate.

"Now that marriage equality is the law of the land and is accepted, now let's turn to family building, and let's figure out how we fix all these inequities that exist," said Barbara Collura, president and CEO of Resolve, a national organization that advocates for access to fertility treatments.

Hawaii is one of eight states that require insurance companies to cover in vitro fertilization, a costly procedure where a doctor retrieves eggs from a woman, combines them with sperm from a man and then implants an embryo into a woman's uterus.

But Hawaii's mandate applies only to married heterosexual couples because it covers the medical intervention only if a woman uses sperm from her spouse, leaving the LGBT community and single women behind.

"At the end of the visit, I would be going into the office and pulling out my credit card, and other people are probably just walking out and insurance is picking up the tab," Smith said. "We had to borrow money, refinance a second mortgage, and I'm sure there are people who don't even explore the option because the expenses are too great."

The measure pending in the Hawaii Legislature removes requirements that the egg and sperm come from a married couple and includes surrogates among the people to be covered.

No other state has included surrogates in their laws, Collura said.

"It is definitely groundbreaking," Collura said. "And it's an often-overlooked way that people choose to build their family, and it should not be left out. It's great to see that Hawaii is taking the lead."

Kaiser Permanente Hawaii opposed the measure, saying the medical provider and insurer does not perform in vitro fertilization with donor eggs or surrogates because of complex legal issues and medical risks. The company asked lawmakers to remove egg donors and surrogates from the bill, saying requiring coverage of additional procedures would raise costs for the company and its customers.

A similar measure in Hawaii failed in previous legislative sessions. But aside from Kaiser, the bill has seen little opposition this year.

A broad coalition including the American Civil Liberties Union of Hawaii, the Hawaii Civil Rights Commission and the Democratic Party of Hawaii are working with LGBT groups to push for change. The proposal passed the state Senate and is up for a vote in the House this week.

Maryland had a law that also excluded same-sex couples until about a year ago, when the Legislature changed the provision so it no longer required using a husband's sperm. That helped lesbian couples, but gay men were still left out because the law didn't cover surrogates, Collura said.

Most state mandates limit insurance reimbursement to a certain number of in vitro fertilization trials or allow coverage only after years of infertility. Some states also allow religious or small employers to get out of the requirement.

"We need to change these laws," Collura said. "We need to update them and make them so that they are no longer discriminatory."