Thank You, Censor Board! Lipstick Under My Burkha Is Now Eligible For Golden Globes
Thank You, Censor Board! Lipstick Under My Burkha Is Now Eligible For Golden Globes
Thank You, Censor Board! Lipstick Under My Burkha Is Now Eligible For Golden Globes , which is not getting a certificate from the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) in India, screened at the 15th edition of Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles (IFFLA) on their opening night. While the director of the film Alankrita Shrivastava was elated with this honour, she had no idea there was more in store for her. Before the screening, director of IFFLA, Christina Marouda, made a huge announcement. She said, "We are honored that the Hollywood Foreign Press Association has chosen our opening night film, , to be an official Golden Globes qualifying screening. The director of the film will now have the opportunity to properly plan a Golden Globes campaign should she choose to submit the film for nomination." Our goal in working closely with Hollywood Foreign Press Association is to ensure that the Golden Globes are on the radar of filmmakers in India and that they become more and more aware of this platform and can begin to formulate their strategy," she added. Well, this should definitely be a big blow for India as an Indian movie is making it's way into people's heart abroad and has not seen a day of release back in the country.

Lipstick Under My Burkha, which is not getting a certificate from the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) in India, screened at the 15th edition of Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles (IFFLA) on their opening night.

Poster

While the director of the film Alankrita Shrivastava was elated with this honour, she had no idea there was more in store for her.



Before the screening, director of IFFLA, Christina Marouda, made a huge announcement.

She said, "We are honored that the Hollywood Foreign Press Association has chosen our opening night film, Lipstick Under My Burkha, to be an official Golden Globes qualifying screening. The director of the film will now have the opportunity to properly plan a Golden Globes campaign should she choose to submit the film for nomination."

Screengrab



Our goal in working closely with Hollywood Foreign Press Association is to ensure that the Golden Globes are on the radar of filmmakers in India and that they become more and more aware of this platform and can begin to formulate their strategy," she added.



Well, this should definitely be a big blow for India as an Indian movie is making it's way into people's heart abroad and has not seen a day of release back in the country.

Don't Miss 492 SHARES 64.5 K SHARES 31 K SHARES 45.4 K SHARES