Judge Jeanine Challenges GOP: 'Put Your Big Boy Pants On,' Get Behind Trump

Judge Jeanine Challenges GOP: 'Put Your Big Boy Pants On,' Get Behind Trump // // // // In her Opening Statement on Saturday, Judge Jeanine Pirro praised President Trump for conducting a targeted airstrike in Syria, and urged Republicans to show courage similar to their party's leader. "This is what we voted for," she said. Pirro demanded that Congressional Republicans "put on their big boy pants" and have the political courage Trump showed in responding to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad allegedly gassing his own people. She urged Republicans to unify as a "team" with the president and pass meaningful legislation like health care and tax reform, without squabbling over their differences in public. Pirro said Republicans must also have the courage to continue their agenda in the face of Democrat criticism, and not recuse themselves every time someone on the left has a problem with them. Earlier this week, Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) stepped aside from the Susan Rice probe because of such criticism, allowing subordinate member Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas) to take over the investigation. She called Democrats' ability to create controversies like Nunes' "partisan sideshows... worthy of Houdini." "Strap in, buckle up and start fighting like your leader," Pirro said.

In her Opening Statement on Saturday, Judge Jeanine Pirro praised President Trump for conducting a targeted airstrike in Syria, and urged Republicans to show courage similar to their party's leader.

"This is what we voted for," she said.

Pirro demanded that Congressional Republicans "put on their big boy pants" and have the political courage Trump showed in responding to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad allegedly gassing his own people.

Eli Lake: Dems' Nunes Outrage 'Absurd' In Light of Praise for Flynn Leaks

Syrian Refugee Heaps Praise on Trump After Airstrike

Could Another Trump Shake-Up the NY Governor's Race?

She urged Republicans to unify as a "team" with the president and pass meaningful legislation like health care and tax reform, without squabbling over their differences in public.

Pirro said Republicans must also have the courage to continue their agenda in the face of Democrat criticism, and not recuse themselves every time someone on the left has a problem with them.

Earlier this week, Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) stepped aside from the Susan Rice probe because of such criticism, allowing subordinate member Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas) to take over the investigation.

She called Democrats' ability to create controversies like Nunes' "partisan sideshows... worthy of Houdini."

"Strap in, buckle up and start fighting like your leader," Pirro said.

Rob O'Neill: Trump 'Hit The Bully in the Face', Raised Troop Morale

Trump Applauds US Military After Syria Airstrike

Puzder: Minimum Wage Hikes Are 'Robot Employment Acts'