Hottest Spring New-Car Lease Deals Under $200 A Month
Hottest Spring New-Car Lease Deals Under $200 A Month
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jim Gorzelany       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The midsize Subaru Legacy sedan is leasing this month for just $175 a month, and that's with all-wheel-drive standard.  (Credit: Subaru of America) If you’re looking for the best deal on a new car you’ve landed on the right page. This month we’re featuring 15 of the most-affordable leasing deals we could find, all with monthly payments at less than $200 a month. Any of these are great for budget-minded motorists, as an extra car in the family fleet, or those looking to supply a college kid with a dependable ride that can be turned in soon after graduation. The best deal this month, assuming you can do without a back seat and much in the way of useable cargo room, is the tiny Smart ForTwo coupe, which is going for a monthly payment of just $109. If you’re not fussy, the 2016 edition leases for a mere $89 a month, which is tip money to some people. The best deal of the month could well be the midsize Subaru Legacy sedan, which comes with all-wheel-drive as standard equipment and can be leased for as little as $175 a month. Check out the full list of this month’s best cut-rate leasing deals in the accompanying slideshow . 15 Best New-Vehicle Lease Deals Under $200 A Month Unless otherwise noted, these deals are for 2017 base models, and are good through the end of April; payments do not include options, taxes, licensing or other fees. Leasing deals often vary by region, so check automakers’ websites with your zipcode entered to find any local promotions that may apply. Cited deals are typically limited to those having top credit scores; those with less than pristine ratings will be charged higher monthly payments and/or down payments. Dealer participation may vary. And, as with any new-vehicle transaction, virtually every aspect of a lease is open to negotiation, and that starts with a car or truck’s transaction price. Check prices on the Internet before visiting a dealership and negotiate the price before entering into a leasing contract with the so-called “dealer’s invoice” as your target – this amount is usually a few percent above a dealer’s actual cost. A lower transaction price usually enables a lower monthly payment. Follow us on Facebook , Twitter and Pinterest . Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

If you’re looking for the best deal on a new car you’ve landed on the right page. This month we’re featuring 15 of the most-affordable leasing deals we could find, all with monthly payments at less than $200 a month. Any of these are great for budget-minded motorists, as an extra car in the family fleet, or those looking to supply a college kid with a dependable ride that can be turned in soon after graduation.

The best deal this month, assuming you can do without a back seat and much in the way of useable cargo room, is the tiny Smart ForTwo coupe, which is going for a monthly payment of just $109. If you’re not fussy, the 2016 edition leases for a mere $89 a month, which is tip money to some people. The best deal of the month could well be the midsize Subaru Legacy sedan, which comes with all-wheel-drive as standard equipment and can be leased for as little as $175 a month.

Check out the full list of this month’s best cut-rate leasing deals in the accompanying slideshow.

Unless otherwise noted, these deals are for 2017 base models, and are good through the end of April; payments do not include options, taxes, licensing or other fees. Leasing deals often vary by region, so check automakers’ websites with your zipcode entered to find any local promotions that may apply. Cited deals are typically limited to those having top credit scores; those with less than pristine ratings will be charged higher monthly payments and/or down payments. Dealer participation may vary.

And, as with any new-vehicle transaction, virtually every aspect of a lease is open to negotiation, and that starts with a car or truck’s transaction price. Check prices on the Internet before visiting a dealership and negotiate the price before entering into a leasing contract with the so-called “dealer’s invoice” as your target – this amount is usually a few percent above a dealer’s actual cost. A lower transaction price usually enables a lower monthly payment.

Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Pinterest.