Dana White Says Floyd Mayweather vs. Conor McGregor Fight Will Happen
Dana White Says Floyd Mayweather vs. Conor McGregor Fight Will Happen
UFC President Dana White went on the record expressing optimism that the megafight between Conor McGregor and Floyd Mayweather will likely be finalized at some point. Speaking at UFC 210 Saturday, White said he plans to meet with McGregor to work out some of the details, per MMAjunkie's Mike Bohn : ve said many times Conor has done a lot. He's stepped up for big fights for this company, and for me and for [former UFC CEO] Lorenzo [Fertitta]. I can't deny him this fight. … Conor is having a baby any day now, and after Conor has his baby, Conor and I are going to meet in New York. White added preliminary discussions about the fight are underway. Jeff Mayweather, Floyd's uncle, told Intending to speed things along, Floyd laid down the challenge to McGregor in a March 11 interview with FightHype.com (via 's Mike Coppinger ). A June 10 date wouldn't leave much time for each fighter to prepare, nor would promoters be able to properly build up hype for the pay-per-view.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC/Getty Images

UFC President Dana White went on the record expressing optimism that the megafight between Conor McGregor and Floyd Mayweather will likely be finalized at some point.

Speaking at UFC 210 Saturday, White said he plans to meet with McGregor to work out some of the details, per MMAjunkie's Mike Bohn:

I see this fight happening. Conor wants it, and Floyd wants it. I've said many times Conor has done a lot. He's stepped up for big fights for this company, and for me and for [former UFC CEO] Lorenzo [Fertitta]. I can't deny him this fight. … Conor is having a baby any day now, and after Conor has his baby, Conor and I are going to meet in New York.

White added preliminary discussions about the fight are underway.

Jeff Mayweather, Floyd's uncle, told Helen Yee of Eyes on the Game that the UFC was holding up the bout by demanding an 80-20 purse split with McGregor. White disputed the notion at UFC 210, per Bohn.

Intending to speed things along, Floyd laid down the challenge to McGregor in a March 11 interview with FightHype.com (via USA Today's Mike Coppinger).

"I don't want to hear no more excuses about the money, about the UFC," he said. "Sign the paper with the UFC so you can fight me in June. Simple and plain, let's fight in June."

FloCombat's Duane Finley reported in March the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas has intentionally left June 10 free in the chance McGregor and Mayweather announce that as the date of their fight.

However, McGregor told the Los Angeles Times' Lance Pugmire he envisions a September date, which would make more sense considering the current time frame. A June 10 date wouldn't leave much time for each fighter to prepare, nor would promoters be able to properly build up hype for the pay-per-view.

The notion of a cross-promotional fight between McGregor and Mayweather once seemed crazy, but White's comments continue the general sense of inevitability now surrounding the event.

For more news, rumors and related stories about Conor McGregor and the UFC, check out the UFC stream on Bleacher Report's app.