Drake's 'More Life' Is The No. 1 Album For The Third Straight Week
Drake's 'More Life' Is The No. 1 Album For The Third Straight Week
Drake 's latest album continues to win on the charts . will spend its third straight week at the top of the Billboard 200 list, though competition for the Toronto rapper is on the horizon. According to did see sales fall in the third week; Drake's project declined in equivalent sales by 40 percent compared to its second week, but still clocks in with a healthy 136,000 equivalent album units. As we've seen in previous weeks, is being propped up by its dominance on streaming services, as 111,000 of those units are derived from streaming equivalent albums. That figure might undersell the the impact of the album on streaming services: it's equal to 167 song streams in a single week. Ed Sheeran's is the No. 2 album for the third consecutive week, but a shake-up of the charts is on the way. Kendrick Lamar's hotly-anticipated album drops on Friday, April 14, and all signs point to his new project having a sizable impact on the Billboard 200. K. Dot's latest single for the project, "Humble" is on track to be a top five hit in the next edition of Billboard's Hot 100, and is more than likely going to be the top-selling and most-streamed song of the week. Lamar has had plenty of success to date, but this would represent his first top 10 hit for Kendrick as the lead artist, which bodes well for album sales. Kendrick kicking Drake out of the top spot would add another chapter to their complicated relationship , so next week's numbers will be eagerly anticipated by fans of both rappers. Let the battle for No. 1 commence.

Drake's latest album More Life continues to win on the charts. More Life will spend its third straight week at the top of the Billboard 200 list, though competition for the Toronto rapper is on the horizon.

According to Billboard, More Life did see sales fall in the third week; Drake's project declined in equivalent sales by 40 percent compared to its second week, but still clocks in with a healthy 136,000 equivalent album units. As we've seen in previous weeks, More Life is being propped up by its dominance on streaming services, as 111,000 of those units are derived from streaming equivalent albums. That figure might undersell the the impact of the album on streaming services: it's equal to 167 million song streams in a single week.

Ed Sheeran's Divide is the No. 2 album for the third consecutive week, but a shake-up of the charts is on the way. Kendrick Lamar's hotly-anticipated album drops on Friday, April 14, and all signs point to his new project having a sizable impact on the Billboard 200.

K. Dot's latest single for the project, "Humble", is on track to be a top five hit in the next edition of Billboard's Hot 100, and is more than likely going to be the top-selling and most-streamed song of the week. Lamar has had plenty of success to date, but this would represent his first top 10 hit for Kendrick as the lead artist, which bodes well for album sales.

Kendrick kicking Drake out of the top spot would add another chapter to their complicated relationship, so next week's numbers will be eagerly anticipated by fans of both rappers. Let the battle for No. 1 commence.