25 Photos To Remind You How Hot Leonardo DiCaprio Was, Is, And Always Will Be
25 Photos To Remind You How Hot Leonardo DiCaprio Was, Is, And Always Will Be
Here's Leo during the 89th Annual Academy Awards before giving Emma Stone the award for Best Actress.                                  I'm sure Emma was more excited about that sweet little kiss he gave her than the actual award, TBH.                                   Leo got his first Oscar for Best Actor in the film and he looks damn good holding it.                                   Leo was intently listening to a speech about the environment. Because if he wasn’t perfect enough already, he also cares about the environment.                                   He's hot and wants to help the world? Just be mine already. Leo was obviously in the process of growing out his beard/hair for during this time.                                   He's the real MVP.                                   They were both at the BAFTA Los Angeles' 18th Annual Awards Season Tea Party in Beverly Hills. Totally a chill event.                                   The two were at The Star Opening Party in Sydney, Australia.                                   I'm weak at the knees. He was at a photocall for in this glorious shot.                                              Save a seat for me, Leo.                                   He was actually at the Paris photocall in Paris, France... and damn he made those flowers look good.                                   He was on stage for Live Earth New York (but, yes, it does sort of look like he's at Target).                                   GAWD what a sweetie.                                   Here he is attending another session about climate change like the good citizen he is.                                   You make Beverly Hills look good, babe.                                              See, look how great a father he would be to my children?!                                   BE STILL MY HEART.                                   He wears that police officer hat so well.                                   He is at the premier of his film in this photo.                                   This photo was taken during the first day of shooting for his movie in southern Thailand.                                   Leo, just a little heartthrob in the making.                                   This was the year came out. OMG.                                   I'm guessing this is when his love for hot, blonde models started?                                   Just look at that perfection.                                   Hey, every great career has to start somewhere.

Eduardo Munoz Alvarez / Getty Images

He's hot and wants to help the world? Just be mine already. Leo was obviously in the process of growing out his beard/hair for The Revenant during this time.