American soldier killed fighting ISIS in Afghanistan
American soldier killed fighting ISIS in Afghanistan 
Shares               An American soldier was killed in action in Afghanistan Saturday, Navy Capt. Bill Salvin, spokesperson for the U.S. Forces in Afghanistan, said in a statement. The soldier was conducting operations against ISIS in Nangarhar Province when he was fatally wounded, Salvin confirmed.   The service member's name and rank have not yet been released. The news comes just days after President Trump hosted a White House event honoring wounded warriors. "You've earned our freedom with your sweat, blood and your incredible sacrifice," Trump said Tuesday. "We salute you, we salute your service." More than 2,200 American service-members have been killed since the war in Afghanistan began in 2001, according to the Department of Defense. Shares                  American soldier killed fighting ISIS in Afghanistan   After Syria strikes, Trump officials seem to send mixed signals on Assad   Coalition and Syrian rebel forces repel ISIS attack on base   French candidate condemns 'criminal act' by US in Syria   Norway police defuse explosive device, arrest suspect   Thousands protest Serbia presidential outcome for 7th day   Despite Trump campaign promise, Tillerson didn't discuss paying for border wall with Mexico   Police say Equinox gunman who killed 2 had just been fired   NSA McMaster: 'Prudent' to send strike group to Korean Peninsula   Policeman slain in London attack gets Parliament honor   Speaker who shuns hardball seeks win after health care loss   To some, aggressive Justice Dept stance looks like step back   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Girl fighting cancer given American Girl doll with matching prosthetic leg   North Carolina bridesmaids trade bouquets for rescue puppies in wedding photos   Couple throws an epic state-fair-themed wedding complete with Ferris wheel, corn dogs   Hip, hip, hooray! Hippo born at the Memphis Zoo   Mattress flies into path of motorcycle going 50 mph in dramatic video   Firefighters name truck after baby left at station 11 years ago   Doctor works to create cancer-fighting video game in honor of late patient   8-year-old with heart defect joins youth baseball team   High school junior takes his 93-year-old grandmother to prom   Oakley set for day in court in wake of MSG arrest   Questions and answers about the Penn Station derailment   Berlin to see its first Jewish campus after the Holocaust   Somalia's new army chief survives car bomb that kills 13   Hot air balloon accident in Turkey kills Frenchman; 7 hurt   North Korea says Syria airstrikes prove its nukes justified   Syrian refugees see glimmer of hope in Trump's policy shift   Father of 9-month-old twins killed in Syrian chemical attack wants more US airstrikes   Trump defends decision not to hit runway on Syrian air base   Schiff says Russia is absolutely 'complicit' in Syrian chemical attack   Syrian jets take off from air base hit by US   Joining high court, the real Neil Gorsuch set to stand up   Tenn. mom on a mission to prove daughter's death was no accident   Vin Diesel denies feud with Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson   Cuba Gooding Jr. responds to controversy over lifting Sarah Paulson's skirt

An American soldier was killed in action in Afghanistan Saturday, Navy Capt. Bill Salvin, spokesperson for the U.S. Forces in Afghanistan, said in a statement.

The soldier was conducting operations against ISIS in Nangarhar Province when he was fatally wounded, Salvin confirmed.

The service member's name and rank have not yet been released.

The news comes just days after President Trump hosted a White House event honoring wounded warriors.

"You've earned our freedom with your sweat, blood and your incredible sacrifice," Trump said Tuesday. "We salute you, we salute your service."

More than 2,200 American service-members have been killed since the war in Afghanistan began in 2001, according to the Department of Defense.