Bernie Sanders Has a Podcast Now, So You Can Feel the Bern All Year Long
Bernie Sanders Has a Podcast Now, So You Can Feel the Bern All Year Long
Have you been looking for a place to fill the void since Bernie Sanders ' loss in last year's Democratic presidential primary? Are you searching for a way to get some more Bernie in your life without all that finger-wagging?  “Election days come and go, but political revolutions that attempt to transform our society and our politics never end,” he wrote. “Listen to to stay informed on the political revolution, our focus in the fight for a progressive agenda and how Bernie and others are fighting back against the Trump administration and its efforts divide us up.” Late last month, Sanders dropped three episodes (quietly on Mar. 26, 27, and 28), clearly knowledgeable in the importance of supply #content to his fans. The first one features a conversation with NAACP national board member Rev. William Barber about the civil rights problems that plague our society today. The second episode is quite the change of pace with Bill Nye where the two discuss the issue of , also get into climate change while also delving into  What are you still doing reading this post? Check out the podcast here !

Have you been looking for a place to fill the void since Bernie Sanders' loss in last year's Democratic presidential primary? Are you searching for a way to get some more Bernie in your life without all that finger-wagging?



Then we have the perfect podcast for you! The U.S. Senator from Vermont recently released The Bernie Sanders Show. On his Facebook page, Sanders explained the goal of his self-titled podcast. “Election days come and go, but political revolutions that attempt to transform our society and our politics never end,” he wrote. “Listen to The Bernie Sanders Show to stay informed on the political revolution, our focus in the fight for a progressive agenda and how Bernie and others are fighting back against the Trump administration and its efforts divide us up.”

Late last month, Sanders dropped three episodes (quietly on Mar. 26, 27, and 28), clearly knowledgeable in the importance of supply #content to his fans. The first one features a conversation with NAACP national board member Rev. William Barber about the civil rights problems that plague our society today. The second episode is quite the change of pace with Bill Nye where the two discuss the issue of climate change and what needs to "transform our energy system." The final one piggybacks off of the same topic Bernie explored with Nye. Josh Fox, filmmaker and director of the environmental documentary How to Let Go of the World (And Love All the Things Climate Can't Change, also get into climate change while also delving into fracking.

What are you still doing reading this post? Check out the podcast here!