Career Advice From HBO's 'Big Little Lies'
Career Advice From HBO's 'Big Little Lies'
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Lelia Gowland       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. There’s a moment in that I can’t get out of my head. In the third episode of the mini-series, Laura Dern’s character, Renata Klein, is talking with her husband about their daughter’s challenges at school. When her husband tries to make a joke to  lighten the mood, she tells him, “Just let me be a scared mom.” HOLLYWOOD, CA - FEBRUARY 07: (L-R) Actors Laura Dern, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, Zoe Kravitz, and Reese Witherspoon attend the premiere of HBO's 'Big Little Lies' at TCL Chinese Theatre on February 7, 2017 in Hollywood, California. (Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images) Given the fascinating way the show covers women’s relationships with their partners, other women, work, sexuality and more, it felt surprising and significant that that’s the line I kept coming back to, even after the series’ conclusion. It’s because so often clients are coming to me with their fears. They’ll say, I’m scared they’ll give the job to someone else if I negotiate, I’m scared if I take on this new project, I’ll fail, or I’m scared that if I go after a promotion and don’t get it, I won’t be happy in my current role. They tell me they’re scared about something fairly often, but rarely are they comfortable with feeling that emotion. They often interpret fear as a sign they shouldn’t take action. They may be coming to me with the hope that I’ll have some magical life hack to override their fear response and make it go away. What was so compelling about Klein’s request was that she was owning her fear.  She was willing to name it, “I’m scared,” and ask for support to stay with that feeling. “Let me be scared.” Fear is an emotion that can be hard to sit with, one we’re taught to avoid. We think it indicates something is bad or wrong and that we should flee whatever it is that makes us afraid. Fear of physical harm, for example, is an important self preservation instinct. On the other hand, fear also commonly surfaces when we’re stretching into a new space professionally. If we feel scared, it can be difficult to differentiate between fear that indicates danger and fear that’s healthy and a sign of growth. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

There’s a moment in Big Little Lies that I can’t get out of my head.

In the third episode of the mini-series, Laura Dern’s character, Renata Klein, is talking with her husband about their daughter’s challenges at school. When her husband tries to make a joke to lighten the mood, she tells him, “Just let me be a scared mom.”

Given the fascinating way the show covers women’s relationships with their partners, other women, work, sexuality and more, it felt surprising and significant that that’s the line I kept coming back to, even after the series’ conclusion.

It’s because so often clients are coming to me with their fears. They’ll say,

I’m scared they’ll give the job to someone else if I negotiate,

I’m scared if I take on this new project, I’ll fail, or

I’m scared that if I go after a promotion and don’t get it, I won’t be happy in my current role.

They tell me they’re scared about something fairly often, but rarely are they comfortable with feeling that emotion. They often interpret fear as a sign they shouldn’t take action. They may be coming to me with the hope that I’ll have some magical life hack to override their fear response and make it go away.

What was so compelling about Klein’s request was that she was owning her fear. She was willing to name it, “I’m scared,” and ask for support to stay with that feeling. “Let me be scared.”

Fear is an emotion that can be hard to sit with, one we’re taught to avoid. We think it indicates something is bad or wrong and that we should flee whatever it is that makes us afraid. Fear of physical harm, for example, is an important self preservation instinct. On the other hand, fear also commonly surfaces when we’re stretching into a new space professionally.

If we feel scared, it can be difficult to differentiate between fear that indicates danger and fear that’s healthy and a sign of growth.