New trade deal with India could be years away, Malcolm Turnbull says



New trade deal with India could be years away, Malcolm Turnbull says

Updated

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has conceded a free-trade deal with India could still be years away, saying Australia has to be "realistic" about the length of time it would take to hammer out an agreement.

Mr Turnbull discussed the deal with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi in New Delhi today as both sides try to find a way to resuscitate discussions.

Former prime minister Tony Abbott championed the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) while he was in power, with both India and Australia vowing they would try to strike a deal by the end of 2015.

But negotiations became bogged down last year after that deadline sailed by. Talks have now come to a virtual standstill with Australia turning its attention to a trade deal with Indonesia instead.

Mr Modi has announced the two sides would "soon" return to the negotiating table for another round of talks, and Mr Turnbull said both countries remained committed to the agreement.

But Mr Turnbull did not set a deadline for striking a deal, and gave a sober assessment of the negotiations so far.

"I think it's fair to say progress has not been as fast as either of us would like to be," Mr Turnbull said.

The two prime ministers have now asked negotiators on both sides to try and find a way forward by listing their priorities and reporting back to them.

"There's no point setting a target for an agreement without having regard to the quality of the agreement," Mr Turnbull said.

"You can sign an agreement at any time — it's a question of whether it's got the provisions that make it valuable, worthwhile, from Australia's point of view.

"So it will take time, but the important thing is to persevere."

Agriculture a sticking point in negotiations

The talks stalled partly because both sides could not overcome thorny issues that could become incendiary political problems.

India has resisted Australia's demand that it open up its market to agricultural products — arguing that could endanger the livelihood of the vast number of small-scale farmers in India.

Mr Turnbull indicated that agriculture remained a sticking point for Australian negotiators.

"India has a long tradition of protection, particularly for agriculture. From our point of view we're a huge agricultural exporter so we want open markets," Mr Turnbull said.

Meanwhile Australia has resisted India's push for it to relax some immigration restrictions, including on 457 visas, which would allow greater numbers of Indians to work here.

But Mr Turnbull was uncompromising on that point.

"We see our temporary migration program as being conducted in a very focussed way in Australia's national interest," he said.

"Our commitment is to assure that when jobs can be done by Australians they should be done by Australians."

Mr Turnbull said the agreement was still "on the agenda" and both countries remained committed to it, but Australia had to be "realistic" about timing.

"It's important to make sure that you have an agreement that meets your requirements, not just reaching an agreement for the sake of saying you've reached an agreement," he said.

The Prime Minister said he would concentrate on building the broader economic relationship between Australia and India, which was still on a good trajectory.

He was bullish about striking an agreement over the long term as India sheds its protectionist mentality and larger numbers of Indians continued to move to Australia to live and work.

But he said in the short term India was focussed on other trade deals.

"The big agenda in terms of trade in the region now is R-CEP (the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership) and that's I think the priority that the ASEAN countries and India and China and Australia are giving to that," Mr Turnbull said.

Topics: trade, business-economics-and-finance, immigration, community-and-society, federal-government, world-politics, government-and-politics, australia, india

First posted