John Oliver Wants To Make You Finally Care About Gerrymandering
John Oliver Wants To Make You Finally Care About Gerrymandering
Gerrymandering might not be the most exciting topic in politics, but John Oliver pointed out during Sunday’s episode of “Last Week Tonight” that it’s one of the most important. “Gerrymandering has become a very precise science,” Oliver said about the practice of redrawing district boundaries so one party has a better chance of winning. “Interestingly, it is one of the few remaining types of science in which the Republican Party currently believes.” While the GOP has certainly benefitted most in recent years, Oliver noted that the Democrats have been pretty good at gerrymandering at times. Oliver said neither party should be allowed to “dilute our votes” by redrawing district maps. “Everyone, every one of us, should get an equal chance to make a bad decision which fucks things up for everybody else,” he said.  ALSO ON HUFFPOST 10 Great Movies About Politics       Share this slide:       MORE:

"The Candidate"

In 1976, Robert Redford starred in one of the all-time great political films, "All the President's Men," a thrilling adaptation of Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward's story of the investigation that broke open the Watergate scandal.



But just a few years earlier, Redford delivered an equally compelling performance in a fictional political drama. In "The Candidate," he plays Bill McKay, a long-shot contender for a U.S. Senate seat in California. Recruited by a grizzled consultant (Peter Boyle), McKay enters the political fray only when assured he will be able to speak his mind and promote his own political issues, rather than stick to conventions. But he learns that in politics, image and perception -- rather than ideas and substance -- are paramount to success.



In November, when honoring Redford with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, President Barack Obama called it "perhaps the best movie about what politics is actually like — ever."



Available on Amazon Prime.