Seven people to be executed in 11 days because lethal injection drugs are about to expire
Seven people to be executed in 11 days because lethal injection drugs are about to expire
Arkansas is preparing to execute seven death row inmates in 11 days this month before the state's deadly drugs expire, an unprecedented number of lethal injections in such a narrow window. The scheduled executions have prompted unease from the state's Republican governor, lawsuits from the condemned inmates, concerns about the frenzied schedule and criticism from an array of former corrections officials nationwide. Though the death penalty has been dormant in Arkansas - these would be the first executions there in 12 years - the lethal injections have put the state at the centre of the debate about capital punishment as it becomes less common in the United States. Fewer states are putting condemned inmates to death, public support for executions is declining and authorities are struggling to find the drugs used in lethal injections amid a shortage spurred in part by drugmakers' objections to the death penalty. Read more Arkansas passes a law allowing guns at football games In Trump's America, women have no authority over their own bodies Arkansas passes law letting rapists sue victims who want an abortion Kidnapped journalist reveals ordeal of beatings and mock executions Advocates for capital punishment argue that the delays in Arkansas amount to justice denied for the families of the victims. Civil liberties advocates worry that the rush in Arkansas could lead to "torture and injustice," in particular because corrections officials are being tasked with executing two men a day. Arkansas officials blame the packed April execution schedule on the drug shortage, which has sent states scrambling for replacement chemicals and, in some cases, has caused them to contemplate other methods of execution. After the lengthy lull in executions - owing to legal challenges and the drug shortage - Arkansas state authorities say these lethal injections are overdue. But Gov. Asa Hutchinson, R, who set the dates, admitted to feeling uneasy about being caught between needing to schedule them and the looming expiration of the state's stock of midazolam, a controversial sedative that will be one of three drugs used in the lethal injections. "It's not my choice," Hutchinson said at a news conference. "I would love to have those extended over a period of multiple months and years, but that's not the circumstances that I find myself in." The state's midazolam supply is set to expire at the end of April, officials say. And with no clear answer about whether the state will be able to obtain a new set of drugs, Hutchinson said he had little choice but to set the dates. "It is uncertain as to whether another drug can be obtained, and the families of the victims do not need to live with continued uncertainty after decades of review," he said in a statement. Drug manufacturers are required by law to put an expiration date on drugs in the United States, and after that date they cannot guarantee the drug's effectiveness or safety. A state official did not immediately respond to a question regarding whether Arkansas officials are prohibited by state law from using an expired drug.   Death row prisoners have executions stayed in lethal injection wrangle Arkansas acquired its midazolam in 2015, according to documents the state provided to The Washington Post. The drug prompted controversy after it was used in a bungled execution in Oklahoma and in unusually long lethal injection procedures in Ohio, Arizona and, most recently, in Alabama in December. According to the Arkansas documents, the state got its midazolam just days after the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the use of the drug in Oklahoma's lethal injections. Citing the state's secrecy law, the Corrections Department declined to say when all the drugs expire, where they were obtained, how much they cost and how much the state has in stock. The documents also show that Arkansas obtained vecuronium bromide, a paralytic, in 2016, and potassium chloride, which stops the heart, in March, the week after Hutchinson set the execution dates. Hutchinson originally scheduled eight executions in an 11-day span, but a judge on Thursday blocked one of them because the state's parole board said it would recommend commuting that inmate's sentence to life in prison without parole, a process that will extend beyond the drug expiration date. The seven inmates still facing execution all were convicted of capital murder. All are men; four are black and three are white. They all received their sentences by the year 2000, and some of them have been on death row for a quarter-century or longer. In a recent report, the Fair Punishment Project at Harvard Law School said it found concerns with the Arkansas cases, saying that some of the inmates appear to suffer from intellectual impairment and outlining qualms about the legal representation the men have had. Executions are a rarity in Arkansas, trailing more active death-penalty states including Texas, Florida and Oklahoma. Since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated capital punishment in 1976, there have been 1,448 executions nationwide, according to the Death Penalty Information Centre. Arkansas has executed 27 inmates in the past four decades. Texas has carried out more executions - 34 - since the beginning of 2014. Arkansas also is not among the country's leaders in death-row populations. For every death row inmate in Arkansas, there are 20 in California. If the seven executions in Arkansas are carried out, the state would eliminate one-fifth of its entire death row population. While executions in the United States have been rapidly declining - falling to 20 last year, the fewest in a quarter-century - states still hoping to carry out executions have tried to obtain drugs in the wake of a years-long shortage. European officials and companies, objecting to their chemicals being used to kill people, have spurred states to begin adapting new and untested combinations of drugs. Lethal injection remains the country's primary method of execution, but due to the shortage, states have also been looking to other methods. Utah, Tennessee and Oklahoma added or broadened their abilities to use a firing squad, electric chair or nitrogen gas, respectively. Others have sought to shroud their drug suppliers in secrecy to protect them from political or public pressure; Virginia passed such a law last year. Most executions are carried out with little public notice, but the scheduling in Arkansas has drawn remarkable national scrutiny and criticism. "We've never seen anything like back-to-back executions, four times, over a span of 11 days," said Robert Dunham, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, a Washington-based nonprofit group. "We've never seen anything close to that." Dunham said his group has tracked just 10 back-to-back executions on a single day, and none since 2000, though he noted that in the 1990s, Arkansas twice executed three inmates in one day. Texas once executed six prisoners in a 10-day span on two different occasions, but the Arkansas schedule would surpass that, Dunham said. World news in pictures               World news in pictures       Paramedics work at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Rex        Reports say three people have died after a truck crashed into an Ahlens department store in Stockholm
Truck drives into crowds on a street in central Stockholm   Rex        The guided-missile destroyer USS Porter (DDG 78) launches a tomahawk land attack missile in the Mediterranean Sea   AP        The United States military launched at least 50 tomahawk cruise missiles at al-Shayrat military airfield near Homs, Syria, in response to the Syrian military's alleged use of chemical weapons in an airstrike in a rebel held area in Idlib province   EPA        Demonstrators pray next to mock coffins during a protest against Russian and Iran in Ankara, Turkey   Reuters        People carry symbolic coffins with pictures of Syrian victims and inscriptions which translates as "killer Asad" and "killer Putin" during a protest against Russia for its alleged role in a chemical attack in the Syrian province of Idlib, in front of the Russian embassy, in Ankara   Getty Images     6 April 2017   A man watches a TV news program reporting about North Korea's missile firing with a file footage, at Seoul Train Station in Seoul, South Korea   AP     6 April 2017   Filipino villagers collect recyclable materials amongst debris following a fire at a shanty town in Bacoor, Cavite province, Philippines   EPA     6 April 2017   According to media reports, more than a thousand familes were left homeless from the fire, which burned around seven hundred shanties. The fire marshal, Superintendent Robert Pacis, stated that the four-hour fire was likely started by children allegedly playing with matches in the house of a person named Raffy Una   EPA     6 April 2017   Filipino Eddito Fernandez displays his hands that are covered in dirt as he collects belongings amongst debris following a fire at a shanty town in Bacoor, Cavite province, Philippines   EPA     6 April 2017   Israeli forces stand guard at the scene of a Palestinian car ramming attack near the Jewish settlement of Ofra near the West Bank city of Ramallah   Reuters     6 April 2017   Israeli soldiers and police arrest a Palestinian attacker at the scene of a car ramming attack near the Israeli settlement of Ofra, north of Ramallah   EPA     6 April 2017   One Israeli was killed and another wounded in a car-ramming attack near the Ofra settlement in the occupied West Bank, the army said. The alleged attacker was arrested, an army statement said, without giving details about him   Getty Images     6 April 2017   Activists of the Basle political action committee 'March against Monsanto and Syngenta' protest in front of the Syngenta headquarters against the acquisition of Syngenta by the Chinese company ChemChina, in Basle, Switzerland   EPA     5 April 2017   Universidad de Chile fans clash with the police during a Copa Sudamericana soccer match against Brazil's Corinthians in Sao Paulo, Brazil   AP     5 April 2017   Universidad de Chile fans scuffle with riot police during their match agains Corinthians at the Arena Corinthians Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil   Getty Images     5 April 2017   Members of the military police of Sao Paulo clash with supporters of Universidad de Chile before the Copa Sudamericana soccer match between Corinthians and Universidad de Chile at the Arena Itaquera Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil   EPA     5 April 2017   Members of the military police of Sao Paulo clash with supporters of Universidad de Chile before the Copa Sudamericana soccer match between Corinthians and Universidad de Chile at the Arena Itaquera Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil   EPA     5 April 2017   Jose Adan Salazar Umana, a businessman and alleged leader of the Texis Cartel, one of the largest money laundering and drug trafficking networks in El Salvador, is presented at the headquarters of the National Civil Police in San Salvador, El Salvador   EPA     5 April 2017   Nikki Haley, United States' Ambassador United Nations, shows pictures of Syrian victims of chemical attacks as she addresses a meeting of the Security Council on Syria at U.N. headquarters   AP     5 April 2017   Russia's deputy UN ambassador, Vladimir Safronkov attends the United Nations Security Council meet in an emergency session at the UN in New York, about the suspected deadly chemical attack that killed civilians, including children, in Syria   Getty Images     5 April 2017   Syrian children, along first aiders and civil defense volunteers, hold placards and photos showing victims of the recent alleged chemical attack Khan Sheikhoun, during a gathering to show solidarity with the victims in Douma, Syria   EPA     5 April 2017   Reports state 72 people, including 20 children, were killed in an alleged chemical attack on Khan Sheikhoun of Idlib province   EPA     4 April 2017   Destruction at a hospital room in Khan Sheikhun, a rebel-held town in the northwestern Syrian Idlib province, following a suspected toxic gas attack   AFP/Getty Images     4 April 2017   Abdul-Hamid Alyousef, 29, holds his twin babies who were killed during a suspected chemical weapons attack, in Khan Sheikhoun in the northern province of Idlib, Syria. Alyousef also lost his wife, two brothers, nephews and many other family members in the attack that claimed scores of his relatives   Alaa Alyousef via AP     3 April 2017   Omid, whose surname has not been released, during an interview with the Press Association at a care home in north London.  The 54-year-old, who has a non-terminal but incurable illness and is seeking a change in the law on assisted dying, has refused to see his children for more than half a year because he does not want them to witness his deteriorating health   PA wire     2 April 2017   Colombian soldiers evacuating victims from the landslide-hit town of Mocoa, Putumayo region, Colombia   EPA     2 April 2017   Colombian soldiers working in the evacuation of victims from the landslide-hit town of Mocoa, Putumayo region, Colombia   EPA     2 April 2017   The death toll from a devastating landslide in the Colombian town of Mocoa stood at around 200 on Sunday as rescuers clawed through piles of muck and debris in search of survivors   Getty Images     2 April 2017   Members of the Dubai Civil Defence arrive at the scene of a fire which broke out in a construction site near the Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, and burned for several hours in Dubai   Getty Images     2 April 2017   Emirati firefighters try to put out a fire which broke out in a construction site near the Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, and burned for several hours in Dubai   Getty Images     1 April 2017   People attend the funeral services for Timothy Caughman. Caughman was alone and collecting bottles for recycling last month when he was attacked from behind with a sword.  His assailant, James Harris Jackson, took a bus last month to New York to kill black men.  Jackson is being held without bail on charges of murder as a hate crime   AP     1 April 2017   Fidelino Quintana and his wife Felicita, parents of Rodrigo Quintana, who was killed last night by a rubber bullet fired by the police in the headquarters of the Liberal Party after clashes, react during their son's funeral in Asuncion, Paraguay   Reuters     1 April 2017   Relatives and friends mourn over the coffin of Rodrigo Quintana, 25, leader of the opposition Liberal Party's youth branch, who was shot dead on the eve during a protest against the approval of a constitutional amendment for presidential re-election, in Asuncion   Getty Images     1 April 2017   A relative cries as she attends the wake of Rodrigo Quintana, a member of the Authentic Radical Liberal Party who was killed in an incident at party's headquarters away from congress at the party's headquarters on Friday, in Asuncion, Paraguay   AP     1 April 2017   Smashed windows at the Congress building, set on fire on the eve by demonstrators protesting against the approval of a constitutional amendment for presidential re-election, in Asuncion, Paraguay   Getty Images  "We know that the state is aware of how to do this in a more orderly and less unseemly way," Dunham said. "They've simply chosen to carry them out in 11 days because they won't be able to use their execution drug a week later." Arkansas officials have defended their execution scheduling as needed to help families find justice and closure. "The victims' families have waited far too long to see justice for their loved ones," a spokesman for Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge (R) said in a statement Thursday after one of the executions was called off. Rutledge would "respond to any and all challenges that might occur between now and the executions as the prisoners continue to use all available means to delay their lawful sentences." For some relatives of the victims, though, they have been down this road before. "I won't really believe it's going to happen until it happens," said Genie Boren, whose husband Cecil Boren was shot and killed by Kenneth Williams and has been waiting more than a decade for his death sentence to be carried out. Williams, whose execution is scheduled for April 27 and is the last one this month in Arkansas, was serving a life sentence when he escaped prison by hiding in a garbage truck. He then travelled to the Boren house near Grady, about 70 miles from Little Rock, according to court summaries of his case. When Williams got there, Genie Boren was at church, but he found Cecil Boren working on his car, the court records state. Williams then shot and killed Cecil Boren, dragged his body to a bayou and took the car. Williams was captured after a car chase that killed another driver. In 2000, he was sentenced to death for killing Boren. "We'd like for it to happen before all of us die ourselves," said Genie Boren, 73. "You know, you wait that many years, you're just waiting and waiting and waiting. I'm not sitting around thinking it's going to happen for sure, but this is closer than we've ever gotten." Boren said she still lives in the same house where her husband was killed, not far from where Williams is being held. While she had originally planned not to attend the execution because she did not want to see someone die, Boren said she changed her mind. "I don't know if I will get anything from that," Boren said. "But you know, I live two miles from the prison. . . . I always look over that way, because I know he's there," she said. "And once he's gone, I'll know he's gone." Attorneys for the inmates have filed challenges questioning the scheduled pace and the particular drugs used. But the rush of work is "overwhelming," said Julie Vandiver, an assistant federal public defender in Little Rock, who is representing some of the inmates. "This is not the way that it should go," Vandiver said. "The end stage of litigation is very important, and when an execution warrant is signed, there are all kinds of processes that start up." She pointed to clemency petitions, which can only be contemplated after an execution date is set. She dismissed the state's argument that is has a deadline approaching, calling it "manufactured" and noting that the state has gotten drugs before and can get them again. Vandiver said the schedule "creates an impossible situation for all the people involved," including the corrections officials who "are going to have to execute these people." Corrections officials have raised similar concerns. In a letter to Hutchinson last month, two dozen such officials pleaded with him to change the pace, warning that "performing so many executions in so little time will impose extraordinary and unnecessary stress and trauma" on the corrections officials. "Even under less demanding circumstances, carrying out an execution can take a severe toll on corrections officers' wellbeing," they wrote. Jerry Givens, who signed the letter and spent 17 years as Virginia's chief executioner, said corrections officers are already under enough pressure before taking on the added weight of multiple executions. "How can you expect them to do something of this magnitude? It's rough," Givens, who executed 62 people and now opposes the death penalty, said Friday. "I know the effect it can have on you when you participate in executions . . . It takes a while to really come out of that." Wendy Kelley, director of corrections in Arkansas, declined an interview request. A spokesman, Solomon Graves, said Thursday that the corrections department rolled out training for the executions and that it would make counseling available to any staff members who participate in an execution. Givens and the other corrections officials also worry that the pace "will increase the chance" of a mistake. They pointed to the last state that intended to carry out two executions in one night: Oklahoma, which bungled the execution of Clayton Lockett, a convicted murderer, in 2014. Lockett grimaced, writhed and appeared to be in pain during the process, witnesses said, dying a short time after the execution was called off. In a state review, authorities wrote that the execution team placed the IV incorrectly and that officials involved described a feeling of extra stress and urgency because a second execution was scheduled for the same night. The second execution was postponed, and when it was carried out in January 2015, Oklahoma officials used the wrong drug. The state has not carried out an execution since, though it came close later that year. Executions are regularly halted in the United States. In some cases, it is because a court intervenes, but executions also have been called off recently for other reasons. Oklahoma abruptly called off another execution in 2015 when state officials realized they had again obtained the wrong drug. The same year, Georgia twice called off the execution of the state's only female death row inmate, first because of a winter storm and then because the drugs looked "cloudy." Officials later said they determined the drugs were just too cold, and they executed her months later. More about: Arkansas United States Oklahoma Comments

Arkansas is preparing to execute seven death row inmates in 11 days this month before the state's deadly drugs expire, an unprecedented number of lethal injections in such a narrow window.

The scheduled executions have prompted unease from the state's Republican governor, lawsuits from the condemned inmates, concerns about the frenzied schedule and criticism from an array of former corrections officials nationwide.

Though the death penalty has been dormant in Arkansas - these would be the first executions there in 12 years - the lethal injections have put the state at the centre of the debate about capital punishment as it becomes less common in the United States. Fewer states are putting condemned inmates to death, public support for executions is declining and authorities are struggling to find the drugs used in lethal injections amid a shortage spurred in part by drugmakers' objections to the death penalty.

Advocates for capital punishment argue that the delays in Arkansas amount to justice denied for the families of the victims. Civil liberties advocates worry that the rush in Arkansas could lead to "torture and injustice," in particular because corrections officials are being tasked with executing two men a day.

Arkansas officials blame the packed April execution schedule on the drug shortage, which has sent states scrambling for replacement chemicals and, in some cases, has caused them to contemplate other methods of execution. After the lengthy lull in executions - owing to legal challenges and the drug shortage - Arkansas state authorities say these lethal injections are overdue.

But Gov. Asa Hutchinson, R, who set the dates, admitted to feeling uneasy about being caught between needing to schedule them and the looming expiration of the state's stock of midazolam, a controversial sedative that will be one of three drugs used in the lethal injections.

"It's not my choice," Hutchinson said at a news conference. "I would love to have those extended over a period of multiple months and years, but that's not the circumstances that I find myself in."

The state's midazolam supply is set to expire at the end of April, officials say. And with no clear answer about whether the state will be able to obtain a new set of drugs, Hutchinson said he had little choice but to set the dates.

"It is uncertain as to whether another drug can be obtained, and the families of the victims do not need to live with continued uncertainty after decades of review," he said in a statement.

Drug manufacturers are required by law to put an expiration date on drugs in the United States, and after that date they cannot guarantee the drug's effectiveness or safety. A state official did not immediately respond to a question regarding whether Arkansas officials are prohibited by state law from using an expired drug.

Arkansas acquired its midazolam in 2015, according to documents the state provided to The Washington Post. The drug prompted controversy after it was used in a bungled execution in Oklahoma and in unusually long lethal injection procedures in Ohio, Arizona and, most recently, in Alabama in December. According to the Arkansas documents, the state got its midazolam just days after the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the use of the drug in Oklahoma's lethal injections.

Citing the state's secrecy law, the Corrections Department declined to say when all the drugs expire, where they were obtained, how much they cost and how much the state has in stock. The documents also show that Arkansas obtained vecuronium bromide, a paralytic, in 2016, and potassium chloride, which stops the heart, in March, the week after Hutchinson set the execution dates.

Hutchinson originally scheduled eight executions in an 11-day span, but a judge on Thursday blocked one of them because the state's parole board said it would recommend commuting that inmate's sentence to life in prison without parole, a process that will extend beyond the drug expiration date.

The seven inmates still facing execution all were convicted of capital murder. All are men; four are black and three are white. They all received their sentences by the year 2000, and some of them have been on death row for a quarter-century or longer. In a recent report, the Fair Punishment Project at Harvard Law School said it found concerns with the Arkansas cases, saying that some of the inmates appear to suffer from intellectual impairment and outlining qualms about the legal representation the men have had.

Executions are a rarity in Arkansas, trailing more active death-penalty states including Texas, Florida and Oklahoma. Since the U.S. Supreme Court reinstated capital punishment in 1976, there have been 1,448 executions nationwide, according to the Death Penalty Information Centre. Arkansas has executed 27 inmates in the past four decades. Texas has carried out more executions - 34 - since the beginning of 2014.

Arkansas also is not among the country's leaders in death-row populations. For every death row inmate in Arkansas, there are 20 in California. If the seven executions in Arkansas are carried out, the state would eliminate one-fifth of its entire death row population.

While executions in the United States have been rapidly declining - falling to 20 last year, the fewest in a quarter-century - states still hoping to carry out executions have tried to obtain drugs in the wake of a years-long shortage. European officials and companies, objecting to their chemicals being used to kill people, have spurred states to begin adapting new and untested combinations of drugs.

Lethal injection remains the country's primary method of execution, but due to the shortage, states have also been looking to other methods. Utah, Tennessee and Oklahoma added or broadened their abilities to use a firing squad, electric chair or nitrogen gas, respectively. Others have sought to shroud their drug suppliers in secrecy to protect them from political or public pressure; Virginia passed such a law last year.

Most executions are carried out with little public notice, but the scheduling in Arkansas has drawn remarkable national scrutiny and criticism.

"We've never seen anything like back-to-back executions, four times, over a span of 11 days," said Robert Dunham, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, a Washington-based nonprofit group. "We've never seen anything close to that."

Dunham said his group has tracked just 10 back-to-back executions on a single day, and none since 2000, though he noted that in the 1990s, Arkansas twice executed three inmates in one day. Texas once executed six prisoners in a 10-day span on two different occasions, but the Arkansas schedule would surpass that, Dunham said.

World news in pictures







36 show all World news in pictures





































































1/36 Paramedics work at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Rex

2/36 Reports say three people have died after a truck crashed into an Ahlens department store in Stockholm Truck drives into crowds on a street in central Stockholm Rex

3/36 The guided-missile destroyer USS Porter (DDG 78) launches a tomahawk land attack missile in the Mediterranean Sea AP

4/36 The United States military launched at least 50 tomahawk cruise missiles at al-Shayrat military airfield near Homs, Syria, in response to the Syrian military's alleged use of chemical weapons in an airstrike in a rebel held area in Idlib province EPA

5/36 Demonstrators pray next to mock coffins during a protest against Russian and Iran in Ankara, Turkey Reuters

6/36 People carry symbolic coffins with pictures of Syrian victims and inscriptions which translates as "killer Asad" and "killer Putin" during a protest against Russia for its alleged role in a chemical attack in the Syrian province of Idlib, in front of the Russian embassy, in Ankara Getty Images

7/36 6 April 2017 A man watches a TV news program reporting about North Korea's missile firing with a file footage, at Seoul Train Station in Seoul, South Korea AP

8/36 6 April 2017 Filipino villagers collect recyclable materials amongst debris following a fire at a shanty town in Bacoor, Cavite province, Philippines EPA

9/36 6 April 2017 According to media reports, more than a thousand familes were left homeless from the fire, which burned around seven hundred shanties. The fire marshal, Superintendent Robert Pacis, stated that the four-hour fire was likely started by children allegedly playing with matches in the house of a person named Raffy Una EPA

10/36 6 April 2017 Filipino Eddito Fernandez displays his hands that are covered in dirt as he collects belongings amongst debris following a fire at a shanty town in Bacoor, Cavite province, Philippines EPA

11/36 6 April 2017 Israeli forces stand guard at the scene of a Palestinian car ramming attack near the Jewish settlement of Ofra near the West Bank city of Ramallah Reuters

12/36 6 April 2017 Israeli soldiers and police arrest a Palestinian attacker at the scene of a car ramming attack near the Israeli settlement of Ofra, north of Ramallah EPA

13/36 6 April 2017 One Israeli was killed and another wounded in a car-ramming attack near the Ofra settlement in the occupied West Bank, the army said. The alleged attacker was arrested, an army statement said, without giving details about him Getty Images

14/36 6 April 2017 Activists of the Basle political action committee 'March against Monsanto and Syngenta' protest in front of the Syngenta headquarters against the acquisition of Syngenta by the Chinese company ChemChina, in Basle, Switzerland EPA

15/36 5 April 2017 Universidad de Chile fans clash with the police during a Copa Sudamericana soccer match against Brazil's Corinthians in Sao Paulo, Brazil AP

16/36 5 April 2017 Universidad de Chile fans scuffle with riot police during their match agains Corinthians at the Arena Corinthians Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil Getty Images

17/36 5 April 2017 Members of the military police of Sao Paulo clash with supporters of Universidad de Chile before the Copa Sudamericana soccer match between Corinthians and Universidad de Chile at the Arena Itaquera Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil EPA

18/36 5 April 2017 Members of the military police of Sao Paulo clash with supporters of Universidad de Chile before the Copa Sudamericana soccer match between Corinthians and Universidad de Chile at the Arena Itaquera Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil EPA

19/36 5 April 2017 Jose Adan Salazar Umana, a businessman and alleged leader of the Texis Cartel, one of the largest money laundering and drug trafficking networks in El Salvador, is presented at the headquarters of the National Civil Police in San Salvador, El Salvador EPA

20/36 5 April 2017 Nikki Haley, United States' Ambassador United Nations, shows pictures of Syrian victims of chemical attacks as she addresses a meeting of the Security Council on Syria at U.N. headquarters AP

21/36 5 April 2017 Russia's deputy UN ambassador, Vladimir Safronkov attends the United Nations Security Council meet in an emergency session at the UN in New York, about the suspected deadly chemical attack that killed civilians, including children, in Syria Getty Images

22/36 5 April 2017 Syrian children, along first aiders and civil defense volunteers, hold placards and photos showing victims of the recent alleged chemical attack Khan Sheikhoun, during a gathering to show solidarity with the victims in Douma, Syria EPA

23/36 5 April 2017 Reports state 72 people, including 20 children, were killed in an alleged chemical attack on Khan Sheikhoun of Idlib province EPA

24/36 4 April 2017 Destruction at a hospital room in Khan Sheikhun, a rebel-held town in the northwestern Syrian Idlib province, following a suspected toxic gas attack AFP/Getty Images

25/36 4 April 2017 Abdul-Hamid Alyousef, 29, holds his twin babies who were killed during a suspected chemical weapons attack, in Khan Sheikhoun in the northern province of Idlib, Syria. Alyousef also lost his wife, two brothers, nephews and many other family members in the attack that claimed scores of his relatives Alaa Alyousef via AP

26/36 3 April 2017 Omid, whose surname has not been released, during an interview with the Press Association at a care home in north London. The 54-year-old, who has a non-terminal but incurable illness and is seeking a change in the law on assisted dying, has refused to see his children for more than half a year because he does not want them to witness his deteriorating health PA wire

27/36 2 April 2017 Colombian soldiers evacuating victims from the landslide-hit town of Mocoa, Putumayo region, Colombia EPA

28/36 2 April 2017 Colombian soldiers working in the evacuation of victims from the landslide-hit town of Mocoa, Putumayo region, Colombia EPA

29/36 2 April 2017 The death toll from a devastating landslide in the Colombian town of Mocoa stood at around 200 on Sunday as rescuers clawed through piles of muck and debris in search of survivors Getty Images

30/36 2 April 2017 Members of the Dubai Civil Defence arrive at the scene of a fire which broke out in a construction site near the Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, and burned for several hours in Dubai Getty Images

31/36 2 April 2017 Emirati firefighters try to put out a fire which broke out in a construction site near the Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, and burned for several hours in Dubai Getty Images

32/36 1 April 2017 People attend the funeral services for Timothy Caughman. Caughman was alone and collecting bottles for recycling last month when he was attacked from behind with a sword. His assailant, James Harris Jackson, took a bus last month to New York to kill black men. Jackson is being held without bail on charges of murder as a hate crime AP

33/36 1 April 2017 Fidelino Quintana and his wife Felicita, parents of Rodrigo Quintana, who was killed last night by a rubber bullet fired by the police in the headquarters of the Liberal Party after clashes, react during their son's funeral in Asuncion, Paraguay Reuters

34/36 1 April 2017 Relatives and friends mourn over the coffin of Rodrigo Quintana, 25, leader of the opposition Liberal Party's youth branch, who was shot dead on the eve during a protest against the approval of a constitutional amendment for presidential re-election, in Asuncion Getty Images

35/36 1 April 2017 A relative cries as she attends the wake of Rodrigo Quintana, a member of the Authentic Radical Liberal Party who was killed in an incident at party's headquarters away from congress at the party's headquarters on Friday, in Asuncion, Paraguay AP

36/36 1 April 2017 Smashed windows at the Congress building, set on fire on the eve by demonstrators protesting against the approval of a constitutional amendment for presidential re-election, in Asuncion, Paraguay Getty Images

"We know that the state is aware of how to do this in a more orderly and less unseemly way," Dunham said. "They've simply chosen to carry them out in 11 days because they won't be able to use their execution drug a week later."

Arkansas officials have defended their execution scheduling as needed to help families find justice and closure.

"The victims' families have waited far too long to see justice for their loved ones," a spokesman for Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge (R) said in a statement Thursday after one of the executions was called off. Rutledge would "respond to any and all challenges that might occur between now and the executions as the prisoners continue to use all available means to delay their lawful sentences."

For some relatives of the victims, though, they have been down this road before.

"I won't really believe it's going to happen until it happens," said Genie Boren, whose husband Cecil Boren was shot and killed by Kenneth Williams and has been waiting more than a decade for his death sentence to be carried out.

Williams, whose execution is scheduled for April 27 and is the last one this month in Arkansas, was serving a life sentence when he escaped prison by hiding in a garbage truck. He then travelled to the Boren house near Grady, about 70 miles from Little Rock, according to court summaries of his case.

When Williams got there, Genie Boren was at church, but he found Cecil Boren working on his car, the court records state. Williams then shot and killed Cecil Boren, dragged his body to a bayou and took the car. Williams was captured after a car chase that killed another driver. In 2000, he was sentenced to death for killing Boren.

"We'd like for it to happen before all of us die ourselves," said Genie Boren, 73. "You know, you wait that many years, you're just waiting and waiting and waiting. I'm not sitting around thinking it's going to happen for sure, but this is closer than we've ever gotten."

Boren said she still lives in the same house where her husband was killed, not far from where Williams is being held. While she had originally planned not to attend the execution because she did not want to see someone die, Boren said she changed her mind.

"I don't know if I will get anything from that," Boren said. "But you know, I live two miles from the prison. . . . I always look over that way, because I know he's there," she said. "And once he's gone, I'll know he's gone."

Attorneys for the inmates have filed challenges questioning the scheduled pace and the particular drugs used. But the rush of work is "overwhelming," said Julie Vandiver, an assistant federal public defender in Little Rock, who is representing some of the inmates.

"This is not the way that it should go," Vandiver said. "The end stage of litigation is very important, and when an execution warrant is signed, there are all kinds of processes that start up."

She pointed to clemency petitions, which can only be contemplated after an execution date is set. She dismissed the state's argument that is has a deadline approaching, calling it "manufactured" and noting that the state has gotten drugs before and can get them again.

Vandiver said the schedule "creates an impossible situation for all the people involved," including the corrections officials who "are going to have to execute these people."

Corrections officials have raised similar concerns. In a letter to Hutchinson last month, two dozen such officials pleaded with him to change the pace, warning that "performing so many executions in so little time will impose extraordinary and unnecessary stress and trauma" on the corrections officials.

"Even under less demanding circumstances, carrying out an execution can take a severe toll on corrections officers' wellbeing," they wrote.

Jerry Givens, who signed the letter and spent 17 years as Virginia's chief executioner, said corrections officers are already under enough pressure before taking on the added weight of multiple executions.

"How can you expect them to do something of this magnitude? It's rough," Givens, who executed 62 people and now opposes the death penalty, said Friday. "I know the effect it can have on you when you participate in executions . . . It takes a while to really come out of that."

Wendy Kelley, director of corrections in Arkansas, declined an interview request. A spokesman, Solomon Graves, said Thursday that the corrections department rolled out training for the executions and that it would make counseling available to any staff members who participate in an execution.

Givens and the other corrections officials also worry that the pace "will increase the chance" of a mistake. They pointed to the last state that intended to carry out two executions in one night: Oklahoma, which bungled the execution of Clayton Lockett, a convicted murderer, in 2014.

Lockett grimaced, writhed and appeared to be in pain during the process, witnesses said, dying a short time after the execution was called off. In a state review, authorities wrote that the execution team placed the IV incorrectly and that officials involved described a feeling of extra stress and urgency because a second execution was scheduled for the same night.

The second execution was postponed, and when it was carried out in January 2015, Oklahoma officials used the wrong drug. The state has not carried out an execution since, though it came close later that year.

Executions are regularly halted in the United States. In some cases, it is because a court intervenes, but executions also have been called off recently for other reasons. Oklahoma abruptly called off another execution in 2015 when state officials realized they had again obtained the wrong drug. The same year, Georgia twice called off the execution of the state's only female death row inmate, first because of a winter storm and then because the drugs looked "cloudy." Officials later said they determined the drugs were just too cold, and they executed her months later.

©The Washington Post