Blame the Strong Dollar. No, Not That One
Strong Dollar Claims First Victim. No, Not the Greenback
Blame the Strong Dollar. No, Not That One   Tech  Tim Culpan is a technology columnist for Bloomberg Gadfly. He previously covered technology for Bloomberg News.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  At first glance, a 1.5 percent miss in quarterly sales doesn't seem like a big deal. But when the results are for Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., a company whose history of hitting its outlook target rivals a Marine sniper, that figure is significant. TSMC makes chips on-spec for clients including Apple Inc. and Qualcomm Inc. Its incredible predictive abilities come from the fact that orders are placed as many as three months in advance, which means TSMC already knows how much customers will be spending for that quarter by the time it releases guidance midway through the period. What TSMC can't predict, however, is currency fluctuations. Instead of weakening about by 0.7 percent, as TSMC had modeled, the average Taiwan dollar rate strengthened by almost 2 percent during the first quarter. (TSMC guidance and earnings are based on average exchange rates during the period.) Currency fluctuations have always been part of business, and TSMC was even a beneficiary last year. Yet a gain of more than 6 percent in the Taiwan dollar from January to March 31 marked the biggest quarterly rise in at least six years, well beyond the swings to which companies are accustomed. Instead of sales beating by about 1 percent, TSMC posted its largest shortfall versus analyst estimates in eight years. Don't think TSMC will be alone. While Taiwanese companies run their accounts and report earnings in local currency, most technology pricing and transactions are done in dollars. That means you can expect more forex-related surprises as this season's earnings roll out. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  To contact the author of this story: in at tculpan1@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at knicholas2@bloomberg.net Staley's pay Mole Hunting  Barclays Blows the Whistle. On Its Own CEO   Finance  Big spenders Shiny, Unhappy People  Madison Avenue Takes a Darker Turn  Policy Plus Unfettered  China Insurance Probe Won't Halt Firms' Overseas Urge   Deals  Disconnect INTELLIGENT INVESTORS  Unicom Can Win by Playing Smart   Tech  More Than Enough power crazies  Australia's Energy Luck Runs Out   Energy  Number of Workers on U.S. Oil Industry Payrolls Hire and Hire  Nonplussed by Payrolls? Try the Oil Business   Energy  Okta's IPO multiple to 12-month trailing revenue Public Handoff  IPO Market Takes Baton of Tech Insanity   Tech  Darwinism Spare Parts  GE Light Bulbs and the Industrial Misfits   Industrials  Cheap Winnings Missing the Point  Who Wants an Opaque ETF?   Markets  War Gaming  Syria Matters for Oil Tomorrow, Not Today   Energy  Class Bully  Mighty Amazon Finds It Hard to Make Friends   Tech  No Satisfaction Tranquility Base  Stocks Keep Calm Amid Carrying On   Markets  Stock buyback Awkward Precedent  Unilever's Debt Temptation   Data  Tesco's share of U.K. grocery market Nasties and Symbols  The Mighty Tesco and The Regulator's Thumb   Consumer  Size of the sovereign wealth fund Norway's Billions  Norway Misses a (Green) Trick   Finance  Escalation Ant vs Euronet  The Patriot Act   Tech  Speed Bump On Your Bike  China Has Smarter Places to Park Money   Deals  Reliability Factor Who's No. 1?  League Table Credit Isn't Always Creditworthy   Deals  Sticking Point Puffed Up  Allergan Guilty of Wishful Botox Thinking  Number Of Major Restaurant Deals In The Past 6 Weeks Sell-By Date  The Restaurant Deal Frenzy Has a Shelf Life   Deals  Possible Saudi Aramco Valuation Weighting Game  Saudi Aramco May Revive London's, Er, Glorious Past   Energy  Intelsat haircut Junk Bond Joust  Star Wars at SoftBank   Finance  Valeant Asset-Sale Target Wheeee  Valeant's Merry-Go-Round of Disappointment Won't Stop   Health  Election Rebound Glass-Steagall  Cohn vs Goldman vs Dimon   Finance

At first glance, a 1.5 percent miss in quarterly sales doesn't seem like a big deal.

But when the results are for Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., a company whose history of hitting its outlook target rivals a Marine sniper, that figure is significant.

Forex Pain A strengthening Taiwan dollar pushed TSMC to its biggest miss in sales against analyst estimates since the global financial crisis Source: Bloomberg, TSMC

TSMC makes chips on-spec for clients including Apple Inc. and Qualcomm Inc. Its incredible predictive abilities come from the fact that orders are placed as many as three months in advance, which means TSMC already knows how much customers will be spending for that quarter by the time it releases guidance midway through the period.

What TSMC can't predict, however, is currency fluctuations. Instead of weakening about by 0.7 percent, as TSMC had modeled, the average Taiwan dollar rate strengthened by almost 2 percent during the first quarter. (TSMC guidance and earnings are based on average exchange rates during the period.)

Tougher in Taipei Taiwan's dollar strengthened against the U.S. currency during the first quarter Source: Bloomberg

Currency fluctuations have always been part of business, and TSMC was even a beneficiary last year. Yet a gain of more than 6 percent in the Taiwan dollar from January to March 31 marked the biggest quarterly rise in at least six years, well beyond the swings to which companies are accustomed.

A Swing, and a Miss Currency fluctuations are common, but the Taiwan dollar's first quarter rise against the greenback was bigger than usual Source: Bloomberg

Instead of sales beating by about 1 percent, TSMC posted its largest shortfall versus analyst estimates in eight years.

Don't think TSMC will be alone. While Taiwanese companies run their accounts and report earnings in local currency, most technology pricing and transactions are done in dollars. That means you can expect more forex-related surprises as this season's earnings roll out.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

Tim Culpan in Taipei at tculpan1@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Katrina Nicholas at knicholas2@bloomberg.net