Henry Cavill auditioning in the original 'Superman' suit is a thing of beauty
Henry Cavill auditioning in the original 'Superman' suit is a thing of beauty
Henry Cavill may strut around in an expensive, shiny looking suit in and , but it wasn't always that way. Back when he was first auditioning, Cavill had to go old school. "We didn't have the suit made when Henry was auditioning, so he wore the original Christopher Reeve suit," said director Zack Snyder in an interview with . "He put it on and when he came out of the trailer, everyone was like, 'Dang, you're Superman!'" And now we have photo evidence. SEE ALSO: Henry Cavill announces role in 'Mission: Impossible 6' in the cheekiest possible way First, here's a reminder of what Cavill looks like in Here’s an exclusive image from BvS juuuust because the press tour is right around the corner! @batmanvsuperman #whowillwin A post shared by Henry Cavill (@henrycavill) on Now here's what Christopher Reeve looked like back in 1978, when he appeared in the first movie. The original Superman. Image:  warner bros. Finally, here's a picture of Henry Cavill in that original costume, which the says Snyder shared on the social network Vero . Henry Cavill in Christopher Reeve's original #Superman suit. Captured by @ZackSnyder during a screen test for #ManofSteel . pic.twitter.com/ZYiKVJ042H — Adam Hlavac (@adamhlavac) April 7, 2017 It's not hard to see why Snyder thought he looked the part. WATCH: Henry Cavill talks being Superman on the 2016 Oscar Red Carpet

Henry Cavill may strut around in an expensive, shiny looking suit in Man of Steel and Batman v Superman, but it wasn't always that way.

Back when he was first auditioning, Cavill had to go old school.

"We didn't have the suit made when Henry was auditioning, so he wore the original Christopher Reeve suit," said director Zack Snyder in an interview with Dujour.

"He put it on and when he came out of the trailer, everyone was like, 'Dang, you're Superman!'"

And now we have photo evidence.

First, here's a reminder of what Cavill looks like in Batman v Superman:

Here’s an exclusive image from BvS juuuust because the press tour is right around the corner! @batmanvsuperman #whowillwin A post shared by Henry Cavill (@henrycavill) on Mar 5, 2016 at 9:31am PST

Now here's what Christopher Reeve looked like back in 1978, when he appeared in the first Superman movie.

The original Superman. Image: warner bros.

Finally, here's a picture of Henry Cavill in that original costume, which the Hollywood Reporter says Snyder shared on the social network Vero.

Henry Cavill in Christopher Reeve's original #Superman suit. Captured by @ZackSnyder during a screen test for #ManofSteel. pic.twitter.com/ZYiKVJ042H — Adam Hlavac (@adamhlavac) April 7, 2017

It's not hard to see why Snyder thought he looked the part.