Blue and black dress riddle finally solved
The riddle of a blue and black dress which went viral may be solved


It was the the question that divided the internet: was a dress to be worn by the mother of a Scottish bride at her wedding white and gold, or blue and black?

Now almost two years since the controversy, science may finally explain why people reported such a split in their perceptions of its colour.

A new study has found that our internal body clocks may be the crucial factor.

Researchers suggest that people who wake up earlier are significantly more likely to see the dress as white and gold, compared to those who love a lie-in.

Scroll down for video

People who spend more time in sunlight are more likely to assume 'warm' illumination and see the dress as white and gold. A number of people in 2015 turned to photo editing software to highlight the role of illumination in the illusion (pictured)

THE STUDY New York University (NYU) neuro-scientist Pascal Wallisch sought to answer the question 'Is the colour you see the same colour I see?'. He used the 2015 meme 'The Dress' as the basis for his experiment. Dr Wallisch, theorised that our own circadian rhythms - our internal body clocks - and consequently our exposure to sunlight could be the determining factor. And he found that 'larks' - people who rise and go to bed early and spend many of their waking hours in sunlight - are more likely to see the dress as white and gold. And night 'owls' - whose world is illuminated not by the sun, but by long-wavelength artificial light - see black and blue.

The results are based on an online study with more than 13,000 participants, undertaken by New York University (NYU) researcher Pascal Wallisch.

The study's participants - who had all previously seen the dress - were asked whether or not they believed it was in a shadow.

And their beliefs strongly affected how they perceived the dress.

Among those who thought it was in a shadow, four out of five participants believed it to be white and gold.

But only half of the people did not see the shadow thought the garment bore these colours.

Dr Wallisch theorised that our own circadian rhythms - our internal body clocks - and consequently our exposure to sunlight could be the determining factor.

The research aimed to answer the questions 'Is the colour you see the same colour I see?'

And the answer - based on his results - is 'not necessarily'.

'If illumination conditions are unclear, your assumptions about the illumination source will matter,' said Dr Wallisch.

'The original image was overexposed, rendering the illumination source uncertain.

THE DRESS THAT STORMED THE INTERNET The picture of the dress was posted on Tumblr in 2015 by Caitlin McNeill, a 21-year-old aspiring singer from Scotland, after noticing her friends saw different colours in the photograph. The image has become an online sensation, with posts arguing over the dress's original colours - and science behind the debate - being viewed and shared millions of times. Even celebrities weighed in on the fashion debate, with Kim Kardashian asking her 29.4million Twitter followers to help settle a disagreement between herself and husband Kanye West. And the hashtag #TheDress started trending worldwide on Twitter as the debate when global.

'As a result, we make assumptions about how the dress was illuminated, which affects the colours we see.

'And those might depend on lifestyle choices, such as when you go to sleep.'

'Shadows are blue, so we mentally subtract the blue light in order to view the image, which then appears in bright colours - gold and white.

Even celebrities weighed in on the fashion debate, with Taylor Swift tweeting: 'I don't understand this odd dress debate and I feel like it's a trick somehow. I'm confused and scared. PS it's obviously blue and black'

Kim Kardashian asking her 29.4million Twitter followers to help settle a disagreement between herself and husband Kanye West

Justin Bieber saw the dress as blue and black, which suggests he is more of a late-riser, based on the findings of the study

'However, artificial light tends to be yellowish, so if we see it brightened in this fashion we factor out this colour - leaving us with a dress that we see as black and blue.

'This is a basic cognitive function: to appreciate the colour on an object, the illumination source has to be taken into account, which the brain does continuously.'

This Adidas jacket did the same, with people saying that they saw numerous color combinations, including blue and white, green and gold, black and brown, and green and brown

Dr Wallisch also considered what could explain these findings.

Put simply, 'larks' - people who rise and go to bed early and spend many of their waking hours in sunlight - are more likely to see the dress as white and gold.

And night 'owls', whose world is illuminated not by the sun, but by long-wavelength artificial light will see black and blue.

To put this to the test, he questioned his participants to find out whether they were larks or owls.

He found that larks were significantly more likely to see the dress as white and gold, compared to owls.

'This suggests that whatever kind of light one is typically exposed to influences how one perceives colour,' Dr Wallisch added.

Demographic factors such like gender and age had very little effect, however.