Shetland Islands could go independent if Scotland leaves UK, former Chancellor claims
Shetland Islands could go independent if Scotland leaves UK, former Chancellor claims
The Shetland Islands could become an overseas territory if Scotland votes for independence, a former Tory chancellor has said. Lord Norman Lamont , who ran the Treasury between 1990 and 1993, has argued for the islands to sever ties with the Scottish mainland and have a similar relationship with the UK as that of the Faroe islands and Denmark. The Faroes are an archipelago in the Arctic circle between Scotland and Iceland which are technically part of Denmark but have autonomy over their own domestic affairs and opted out of EU membership when the Danish joined in 1973. Read more Sturgeon rules out legal action to secure second Scottish referendum Shetland: the archipelago and its Nordic connections Lib Dems could lose last seat in Scotland amid by-election threat Speaking in a podcast for , the Conservative peer said a Faroese-style option should be available for the islanders if Scotland votes to leave the UK. Lord Lamont, who was born in the islands' main town of Lerwick , said that many Shetlanders were already independent in spirit and many felt they had more in common with Norway than Scotland. He said they would be able to support themselves from the revenues of the substantial oilfields in their territorial waters. The islands, which are slightly closer to Norway than Scotland, voted overwhelmingly against Scottish independence in 2014 with 64 per cent of voters saying No. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    6 April 2017   London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app   PA wire     6 April 2017   London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app.   PA wire     6 April 2017   The cocaine haul in the fishing boat The Bianca, as her skipper Michael McDermott will be sentenced after he tried to smuggle more than £80 million of cocaine into the UK   PA wire     6 April 2017   Jon Platt arrives at the Supreme Court in central London with his wife Sally where the Court will rule on the much-anticipated legal case on an unauthorised holiday during school term time   PA wire     6 April 2017   Bunny Penny, the Playboy Club Bunny of the Year wears an edible chocolate corset and bunny ears at Marble Arch in London   PA wire     6 April 2017   105-year-old Jack Reynolds receives his Guinness World Record certificate after riding the Twistersaurus rollercoaster to raise money for the Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Rutland Air Ambulance fund at Flamingo Land in Malton, North Yorkshire.  Reynolds, who broke a Guinness World Record by becoming the oldest person in the world to get a tattoo at the age of 104, said he was not nervous, particularly after flying in a Tiger Moth plane last year   PA wire     6 April 2017   Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, leaves after meeting Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May inside 10 Downing Street   Reuters     5 April 2017   Member of the European Parliament and former leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage wears socks with Union Jack flag at the European Parliament in Strasbourg   Getty Images     5 April 2017    Getty Images     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     1 April 2017   Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London   Ben Stevens/PA Wire  Lord Lamont, who supported Brexit but is opposed to Scottish independence, said: “If a majority of Shetland islanders thought that was a sensible thing . . . it should be pursued if Scotland were independent. “I think looking for a Faroese-type devolution would be a perfectly legitimate thing to ask for.” He insisted he was not “just trying to stir it up” and it has “always seemed to me to be an idea that was likely to rear its head again in the event of Scottish independence”.   This is what Scottish independence could actually look like In the run-up to the first referendum Orkney and Shetland MP Alistair Carmichael , who was then Scottish Secretary, said the Shetlands may “reconsider” their place in Scotland in the event of a Yes vote. He said then Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond should not take for granted that Shetland oil would remain Scottish after independence. Lord Lamont said he remained opposed to the idea of a second referendum so soon after the first. He said: “Referenda ought to be occasional. You can’t just keep testing public opinion until you get the answer you want.” More about: Shetland Islands Scottish independence indyref2 Norman Lamont Comments

The Shetland Islands could become an overseas territory if Scotland votes for independence, a former Tory chancellor has said.

Lord Norman Lamont, who ran the Treasury between 1990 and 1993, has argued for the islands to sever ties with the Scottish mainland and have a similar relationship with the UK as that of the Faroe islands and Denmark.

The Faroes are an archipelago in the Arctic circle between Scotland and Iceland which are technically part of Denmark but have autonomy over their own domestic affairs and opted out of EU membership when the Danish joined in 1973.

Speaking in a podcast for The Shetland Times, the Conservative peer said a Faroese-style option should be available for the islanders if Scotland votes to leave the UK.

Lord Lamont, who was born in the islands' main town of Lerwick, said that many Shetlanders were already independent in spirit and many felt they had more in common with Norway than Scotland.

He said they would be able to support themselves from the revenues of the substantial oilfields in their territorial waters.

The islands, which are slightly closer to Norway than Scotland, voted overwhelmingly against Scottish independence in 2014 with 64 per cent of voters saying No.

UK news in pictures







14 show all UK news in pictures

























1/14 6 April 2017 London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app PA wire

2/14 6 April 2017 London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app. PA wire

3/14 6 April 2017 The cocaine haul in the fishing boat The Bianca, as her skipper Michael McDermott will be sentenced after he tried to smuggle more than £80 million of cocaine into the UK PA wire

4/14 6 April 2017 Jon Platt arrives at the Supreme Court in central London with his wife Sally where the Court will rule on the much-anticipated legal case on an unauthorised holiday during school term time PA wire

5/14 6 April 2017 Bunny Penny, the Playboy Club Bunny of the Year wears an edible chocolate corset and bunny ears at Marble Arch in London PA wire

6/14 6 April 2017 105-year-old Jack Reynolds receives his Guinness World Record certificate after riding the Twistersaurus rollercoaster to raise money for the Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Rutland Air Ambulance fund at Flamingo Land in Malton, North Yorkshire. Reynolds, who broke a Guinness World Record by becoming the oldest person in the world to get a tattoo at the age of 104, said he was not nervous, particularly after flying in a Tiger Moth plane last year PA wire

7/14 6 April 2017 Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, leaves after meeting Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May inside 10 Downing Street Reuters

8/14 5 April 2017 Member of the European Parliament and former leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage wears socks with Union Jack flag at the European Parliament in Strasbourg Getty Images

9/14 5 April 2017 Getty Images

10/14 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

11/14 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

12/14 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

13/14 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

14/14 1 April 2017 Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London Ben Stevens/PA Wire

Lord Lamont, who supported Brexit but is opposed to Scottish independence, said: “If a majority of Shetland islanders thought that was a sensible thing . . . it should be pursued if Scotland were independent.

“I think looking for a Faroese-type devolution would be a perfectly legitimate thing to ask for.”

He insisted he was not “just trying to stir it up” and it has “always seemed to me to be an idea that was likely to rear its head again in the event of Scottish independence”.

In the run-up to the first referendum Orkney and Shetland MP Alistair Carmichael, who was then Scottish Secretary, said the Shetlands may “reconsider” their place in Scotland in the event of a Yes vote.

He said then Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond should not take for granted that Shetland oil would remain Scottish after independence.

Lord Lamont said he remained opposed to the idea of a second referendum so soon after the first.

He said: “Referenda ought to be occasional. You can’t just keep testing public opinion until you get the answer you want.”