Tropical Cyclone Cook: New Caledonia braces itself as severe system hits east coast



Tropical Cyclone Cook: New Caledonia braces itself as severe system hits east coast

Posted

People in northern parts of New Caledonia have been told to stay indoors as severe Tropical Cyclone Cook buffets the French territory.

Key points: Cook has intensified to category 3 cyclone

Expected to pass 50 kilometres southwest of capital Noumea

Wind gusts of 200 kilometres per hour predicted

The category-three cyclone hit the main island Grand Terre at almost the same time as high tide, packing winds of up to 200 kilometres per hour.

The gales brought down coconut trees, blocking roads and forcing residents to seek shelter indoors.

Floods and waves as tall as 10 metres were also forecast by weather authorities.

"The threat to New Caledonia is very serious," the meteorological service said in a cyclone alert that will be extended to cover the southern province this evening.

The Directorate of Civil Security and Risk Management has issued a level-two cyclone alert for the northern province requiring people to remain inside their homes or emergency shelters.

In the capital Noumea, Pacific Community deputy director-general Cameron Diver said most people went home from work before midday to prepare for Cook's arrival.

"I think people are taking it with a lot of calm, nobody's panicking. It's one of those cases where you prepare for the worst and hope for the best," he said.

Nickel group Societe Le Nickel, a subsidiary of French conglomerate Eramet, had suspended mining at its five locations in New Caledonia, though smelting operations continued at a reduced level in Noumea.

New Caledonia has not experienced a direct hit since Cyclone Erica in 2003.

But Mr Diver said recent disasters elsewhere in the region meant people were taking the warnings seriously.

"People are very much aware of what's gone on in other Pacific islands, Vanuatu with Cyclone Pam and Fiji with Cyclone Winston, so they're taking the precautions that are necessary," he said.

Cyclone Cook hit Vanuatu yesterday but authorities reported no major damage.

Meteo France expects Severe Tropical Cyclone Cook to cross the centre of Grand Terre overnight and pass 50 kilometres to the south-west of Noumea.

Topics: cyclones, cyclone, new-caledonia, pacific