It Runs in the Family: Musical Siblings Who Rock
It Runs in the Family: Musical Siblings Who Rock 
It Runs in the Family: Musical Siblings Who Rock  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  In honor of National Siblings Day on April 10, take a look at the sisters and brothers who have musical talent in their DNA -- from Beyonce and Solange Knowles to The Jackson 5. The edgy singer, who is five years younger than Beyonce, got her showbiz start as a backup dancer for Destiny's Child. “My sister was very protective of me, and we were very sweet with each other,” Solange has said . “I’m sure if we were closer in age we wouldn’t have gotten along so great. But we’ve been super-close ever since I was about 13.” It’s a very family affair for Arcade Fire: In addition to the brothers, Win’s wife Régine Chassagne is also in the band. The hip-hop duo achieved serious media attention with their single “No Flex Zone,” which peaked at No. 36 on the Billboard Hot 100. The women have been playing bluegrass music together since they were kids, but with the addition of Natalie Maines, the Dixie Chicks rose to superstardom. The guys showed they had the right stuff in the early '90s, and they’re still going strong today. Originally rocking out from ’84-’94, they broke up when Jonathan Knight decided to leave the band, however in 2008 the group got stepping once again. The electronic musical duo’s debut album, , was nominated for best dance/electronica album at the 2014 Grammy Awards One of the best-selling musical acts of all time, the duo played together professionally for 14 years before Karen tragically passed away in 1983 due to health complications related to anorexia. The two may make great music together, but there was always behind-the-scenes drama. In a January 2015 blog post , Rich confirmed the band’s breakup, saying, in part, “I hold my time with the Black Crowes with the utmost respect and sincerest appreciation…. I love my brother and respect his talent, but his present demand that I must give up my equal share of the band and that our drummer for 28 years and original partner, Steve Gorman, relinquish 100 percent of his share, reducing him to a salaried employee, is not something I could agree to." The Swedish folk duo rose to prominence thanks to a 2008 YouTube cover of "Tiger Mountain Peasant Song .” Perhaps the most famous musician siblings, the Jackson 5 originally formed in 1964, before giving way to the superstar solo career of Michael Jackson. The recent first-time Grammy winners have been playing together for a long time, which means they know how to work out disagreements. “We still do have the typical -- stereotypical -- sibling, I guess you’d call them spats, but we call the discussions – a more appropriate word,” Reid explained . “But you know, growing up together, it’s a lot about just the insignificant things, nothing to do with creativity or business decisions. I think we’ve gotten really good about getting on the same page when it comes to that.” Alongside Pete Quaife, the brothers founded The Kinks in 1963. Although the siblings had a famously troubled on-and off-stage relationship, the brothers are both hopeful for some reunion shows this year. "It would be a shame if Ray and I didn't do something next year," Dave told in 2014 . "I'm prepared to talk. If Ray's got some great ideas, let me hear them. I have my own ideas about how it should be presented. But I don't want it to be a Ray Davies show where he lets his little brother stand in the corner, which he likes to do." It's no secret the two haven't always seen eye to eye. Following Oasis' break-up in 2009, Liam Gallagher told magazine , "Everyone knows my feelings, I’m not shy with that. I love our kid -- as in the Noel that’s not in a band and not in the music business and not all that bullshit that people see he is. But the band Noel? The fuckin’ geezer that’s in the band? I fuckin’ absolutely fuckin’ despise [him]. And I guess he feels the same way." Alongside cousin Matthew, the family band was officially formed in 1999 and have released six albums between 2003-2013. Jessica Simpson may now be best-known as a fashion mogul, but a decade ago, both she and younger sister Ashlee were playing the pop game. The younger Simpson often struggled with the comparisons, singing at one time, “I was living in the shadow/ of someone else’s dream.” The sisters both released pop music in the early aughts, and while Hilary had the bigger career, the two sometimes collaborated on musical endeavors, such as a cover of “Our Lips Are Sealed.” The Haim sisters are pop-rockers (and Taylor Swift BFFs) who have always made music together: First, they played in a family band with their parents when they were little, then the sisters broke off and became HAIM in 2007. Their buzzy first EP, , dropped in 2012. Both trained in classical piano as kids, the brothers -- Eddie on guitar, Alex on drums -- formed the iconic rock group with David Lee Roth and Michael Anthony in 1974. Through multiple iterations of the group, they've stuck together. Little Donny Osmond got his career star as a tot with the family singing group The Osmonds, before becoming a teen idol alongside sister Marie Osmond in their ABC variety show ,’from 1976-1979. Both have had successful solo careers and are now back performing together in Las Vegas at the Flamingo. Of working with his little brother Jonny, Colin quipped , "It’s wonderful, it’s good, it makes my promise to keep an eye on him for my mother a lot easier, having him right next to me all the time. But he’s very easy to look after anyway, 'cause he’s very well behaved." While Britney is obviously the bigger star, her kid sister is also getting her feet wet in the music scene, occasionally showing up at bars and open mics to perform. Does she tire of always being referred to Spears’ little sister? “Not at all. I'm very proud. That is something I want to be attached to,” Jamie Lynn recently shared . In addition to the three brothers, The Beach Boys also consisted of their cousin Mike Love and friend Al Jardine. The band released hit after hit in the '60s and '70s. Dennis passed away in 1983, and Carl died in 1998. The brothers are better known among the under-18 set as the stars behind the Nickelodeon show The Naked Brothers Band, a hyperbolic sitcom based on their real lives. Scott and Seth may have always been into music, but it wasn’t always together. “Seth and I...we were in two bands,” Scott said in an interview . “Those two bands kind of deconstructed and came together, so we had this rock band. It was loud and rocking, and as that was starting to sort of implode, Seth and I were starting to look for a clearer medium, or a clearer way to present or express through music.” When guitarist Malcolm Young was forming AC/DC, he kept it in the family, recruiting younger brother and fellow axeman Angus to join in on the fun as well. Malcolm retired from the hard-rocking group over an undisclosed illness in 2014.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Josh Brasted/Getty Images

Beyonce & Solange Knowles

In honor of National Siblings Day on April 10, take a look at the sisters and brothers who have musical talent in their DNA -- from Beyonce and Solange Knowles to The Jackson 5.

Beyonce and Solange Knowles

The edgy singer, who is five years younger than Beyonce, got her showbiz start as a backup dancer for Destiny's Child. “My sister was very protective of me, and we were very sweet with each other,” Solange has said. “I’m sure if we were closer in age we wouldn’t have gotten along so great. But we’ve been super-close ever since I was about 13.”