2 dead in shooting at San Bernardino elementary school, police say
2 dead in shooting at San Bernardino elementary school, police say
Shares               Two adults are dead after a school shooting at a San Bernardino, California, elementary school, according to police. The deceased were found in a classroom at North Park Elementary School, San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan wrote on Twitter. The shooting appears to be a murder-suicide, Burguan added. Two injured victims -- possibly students -- were taken to local hospitals for treatment, Burguan said. Their condition is unknown at this time, he added. The suspected shooter is believed to be "down" and there is no further threat at this time, according to Burguan.  We believe this to be a murder suicide. Happened in a class room. Two students have been transported to the hospital.  The school is currently on lockdown, and other area schools have been placed on precautionary lockdown, San Bernardino City Schools Communications Officer Maria Garcia told ABC News. Students at the school are be taking to Cajon High School for safety, Burguan added. Helicopter footage from ABC Los Angeles station KABC shows students gathered near an exterior fence on campus. The footage also shows law enforcement canvassing the campus parking lot.   The mother of a fourth-grade student at the school told KABC that she was watching the news when she heard about the shooting and said she "ran right over" to the school to check on her daughter, saying she was "scared to death." The woman said she could see her daughter on the other side of the fence and said she was "crying" as she held hands with her classmates. San Bernardino was the site of a December 2015 terror attack that killed 14 people and injured 22 others.  Shares                  2 dead in shooting at San Bernardino elementary school, police say   Judge shot to death in Chicago, manhunt on for suspect   Spicer stops short of calling Assad a war criminal   McCain: Russia cooperated with Syria in chemical attack   Police: Gunman who killed Texas lawman killed himself   Airlines often oversell flights, end up bumping passengers   Wells claws back $75 million from top execs in sales scandal   Carrier group heads to Sea of Japan amid N. Korea tensions   Palm Sunday bombings latest in string of attacks against Egypt's Christians   Le Pen criticized for denying French blame in WWII roundup   Julia, a Muppet with autism, makes first appearance on 'Sesame Street'   Author shares tips to fight rising health care costs   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   Trump to sell attack planes to Nigeria for Boko Haram fight   After Syria attack, Tillerson vows to defend innocents   Brake lights stretch for miles after Atlanta bridge collapse   Israel shuts Egypt border after terror warning Passover eve   China bars wife of detained Taiwanese activist from visiting   Jewish family renews fight for Passover manuscript   Canada PM Trudeau visits Juno Beach, site of D-Day landings   Utah doctor convicted of killing wife in bathtub dies   Barclays CEO investigated for trying to unmask whistleblower   What to know about the Fox News and Bill O'Reilly controversies   Officer appears to slam woman onto sidewalk in video   Attacks test Egypt's president who orders state of emergency   Key moments in Charleston church shooting case as Dylann Roof pleads guilty   'Thor: Ragnarok': Watch the 1st explosive trailer   Kimberly Williams-Paisley recalls her most difficult scene in 'Father of the Bride'

Two adults are dead after a school shooting at a San Bernardino, California, elementary school, according to police.

The deceased were found in a classroom at North Park Elementary School, San Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan wrote on Twitter. The shooting appears to be a murder-suicide, Burguan added.

Two injured victims -- possibly students -- were taken to local hospitals for treatment, Burguan said. Their condition is unknown at this time, he added.

The suspected shooter is believed to be "down" and there is no further threat at this time, according to Burguan.

We believe this to be a murder suicide. Happened in a class room. Two students have been transported to the hospital. — Chief Jarrod Burguan (@SBPDChief) April 10, 2017

The school is currently on lockdown, and other area schools have been placed on precautionary lockdown, San Bernardino City Schools Communications Officer Maria Garcia told ABC News. Students at the school are be taking to Cajon High School for safety, Burguan added.

Helicopter footage from ABC Los Angeles station KABC shows students gathered near an exterior fence on campus. The footage also shows law enforcement canvassing the campus parking lot.

KABC

The mother of a fourth-grade student at the school told KABC that she was watching the news when she heard about the shooting and said she "ran right over" to the school to check on her daughter, saying she was "scared to death."

The woman said she could see her daughter on the other side of the fence and said she was "crying" as she held hands with her classmates.

San Bernardino was the site of a December 2015 terror attack that killed 14 people and injured 22 others.

This is a breaking news story. Please check back for updates.