Mexico's Peso Survived Trump, But Will Suffer 'Amlo' Obrador
Mexico's Peso Survived Trump, But Will Suffer 'Amlo' Obrador
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kenneth Rapoza       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. , Andrés Manuel López Obrador, is billing himself as the Mexican Never-Trumper. He is pro-migrant (insofar as he wants them all to stay here) and is seen as a negative for the peso. (AP Photo/Andres Kudacki) So you thought the Mexican peso was a slap across the face of Donald Trump, didn't you? It went from 22 to the dollar to 18.67 in less than five weeks. Bond managers made a nice chunk of change. Trump's big beautiful rhetorical wall was no match for it. Not so fast, Over the last two weeks, several economists and fund managers from BlackRock to PNC Financial Services Group have warned that Mexico has more problems than the gringo in the White House. Next year's election cycle will bring to it a host of problems, especially if anti-Trump populist and former Mexico City governor Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador (aka "Amlo") becomes president. So far, the three-time presidential candidate is ahead in the polls . "There is a very short window on the peso," says Gerardo Rodriguez, a former deputy at the Finance Ministry in Mexico and now a fund manager for BlackRock in New York. "By the end of the year, things will get rocky again because of politics." As a result of domestic pressures from politics to inflation, Mexico's peso is going to go back to 2016 levels. Nomura Securities thinks the peso loses ground against the dollar this quarter, slipping to 19 and then to 19.6 in the third and then to 20 in the fourth and then to 21 to the dollar at this point next year. Mexicans head to the polls in July 2018. The outlook for the peso now depends on political developments, which begins in earnest in the June 4 mayoral elections. The peso has been gaining recently thanks two things: less rhetoric about the end of NAFTA and support from Banxico, the Mexican central bank.  While this may not seem sexy to political junkies and the political press, what's helped the peso has been short-term dollar derivatives being auctioned off to the tune of around $20 billion, providing a lot of support to the peso. On the fiscal side, the government reduced its 2017 fiscal deficit to 1.4% of GDP from the 2.5% target and the concerns of recession are now subsiding. The combined impact of the peso's greater stability and better sentiment for the economy have reduced the chances of a ratings downgrade. Mexico's credit outlook is on negative watch at all three U.S. credit rating agencies. Better fiscal data has led Nomura to forecast a stronger peso this quarter, at 19 from their previous forecast of 19.6. But that will not hold. "The media coverage associated with the 2018 presidential election could start impacting the peso by December," says Benito Berber, an executive director at Nomura in New York. Mexico is not the only country facing domestic political pressures. If a third shot at the presidency seals it for Amlo, the same may hold true for Brazil's ex-president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. Lula also won the presidency on his third try. And now, in a strange twist of fortunes, he is running again. Or so he says. A win would give him a third term in Brasilia. This is unlikely, however. Lula is currently the most reviled of all politicians expected to announce a run next year. Lula never made his candidacy a sure thing, but said he would run if "Brazil needs" him. Barring those who believe he is the victim of a political witch hunt, Lula is basically seen as the Godfather of the Soul-Crushing Petrobras graft scheme. That scheme made Brazilian public works contract rigging a national art form and it nearly crushed oil giant Petrobras. It also led to the arrest of Brazil's most powerful politicians and CEOs, including Marcelo Odebrecht, whose company built one of the terminals at Miami International Airport. Nomura thinks that next year's general election will send the Brazilian real lower. Third time's a charm? Brazil's former president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has a handful of charges levied against him in the massive Petrobras political scandal. He says he wants to run for president again. He is ahead in the polls, despite having a high level of rejection. (AP Photo/Eraldo Peres) If Lula throws his hat into the ring next year, the Brazilian real is going from 3.10 today to 3.50 by election day in October 2018.  This looks like a fairly conservative estimate for Nomura, suggesting they think Lula doesn't stand a chance. Assuming Lula does stand a chance, and if he wins the first round of voting, then there is no doubt that the Brazilian real heads to 4.00, at least. "I wouldn't be surprised if Lula runs and wins," says Fernando Pertini, CEO of Millenia Asset Management in Panama City. Brazil's real is also being pressured by the current leadership which is failing on its promise to deliver pension fund reform. Nomura thinks the real goes to 3.20 by June and then to 3.40 in the fourth quarter before it weakens again next year. Nomura, which has a few Brazilians on their fixed income team in New York, is still hopeful that they will see some government success on pension reform. But following last week's failure to move forward on a bill in the lower house, Nomura is now starting to rethink things. A more diluted pension reform law may be the best-case scenario at this point. For what it's worth, Lula's Workers' Party, which was roundly kicked out of office in October, just two months after its president Dilma Rousseff was indicted for accounting fraud, will play up this pension reform failure to the best of their ability in hopes to deter from the Petrobras investigations. In theory, the Workers' Party only has two hands to play. One is the victimization card: "Lula is the victim of a political coup." The other hand is the pension card: "the ruling elites want to take your money and make you work forever." Brazil's public employees account for roughly 12% of the nation's salaried workforce, according to the OECD . The majority of them retire at or around 50 years of age. The government now wants to increase that to around 65 to 66 years of age, putting Brazilians on par with their American counterparts. The bill is unpopular because many politicians and high net worth public sector employees are against changing the rules. The World's Five Most Expensive Cities To Live In Find me on Twitter at @BRICBreaker Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

So you thought the Mexican peso was a slap across the face of Donald Trump, didn't you? It went from 22 to the dollar to 18.67 in less than five weeks. Bond managers made a nice chunk of change. Trump's big beautiful rhetorical wall was no match for it. Viva Mexico!

Not so fast, hombre.

Over the last two weeks, several economists and fund managers from BlackRock to PNC Financial Services Group have warned that Mexico has more problems than the gringo in the White House. Next year's election cycle will bring to it a host of problems, especially if anti-Trump populist and former Mexico City governor Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador (aka "Amlo") becomes president. So far, the three-time presidential candidate is ahead in the polls.

"There is a very short window on the peso," says Gerardo Rodriguez, a former deputy at the Finance Ministry in Mexico and now a fund manager for BlackRock in New York. "By the end of the year, things will get rocky again because of politics."

As a result of domestic pressures from politics to inflation, Mexico's peso is going to go back to 2016 levels. Nomura Securities thinks the peso loses ground against the dollar this quarter, slipping to 19 and then to 19.6 in the third and then to 20 in the fourth and then to 21 to the dollar at this point next year. Mexicans head to the polls in July 2018.

The outlook for the peso now depends on political developments, which begins in earnest in the June 4 mayoral elections.

The peso has been gaining recently thanks two things: less rhetoric about the end of NAFTA and support from Banxico, the Mexican central bank. While this may not seem sexy to political junkies and the political press, what's helped the peso has been short-term dollar derivatives being auctioned off to the tune of around $20 billion, providing a lot of support to the peso.

On the fiscal side, the government reduced its 2017 fiscal deficit to 1.4% of GDP from the 2.5% target and the concerns of recession are now subsiding. The combined impact of the peso's greater stability and better sentiment for the economy have reduced the chances of a ratings downgrade. Mexico's credit outlook is on negative watch at all three U.S. credit rating agencies. Better fiscal data has led Nomura to forecast a stronger peso this quarter, at 19 from their previous forecast of 19.6. But that will not hold. "The media coverage associated with the 2018 presidential election could start impacting the peso by December," says Benito Berber, an executive director at Nomura in New York.

Mexico is not the only country facing domestic political pressures.

If a third shot at the presidency seals it for Amlo, the same may hold true for Brazil's ex-president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. Lula also won the presidency on his third try. And now, in a strange twist of fortunes, he is running again. Or so he says. A win would give him a third term in Brasilia. This is unlikely, however. Lula is currently the most reviled of all politicians expected to announce a run next year.

Lula never made his candidacy a sure thing, but said he would run if "Brazil needs" him. Barring those who believe he is the victim of a political witch hunt, Lula is basically seen as the Godfather of the Soul-Crushing Petrobras graft scheme. That scheme made Brazilian public works contract rigging a national art form and it nearly crushed oil giant Petrobras. It also led to the arrest of Brazil's most powerful politicians and CEOs, including Marcelo Odebrecht, whose company built one of the terminals at Miami International Airport.

Nomura thinks that next year's general election will send the Brazilian real lower.

Third Time's A Charm?

If Lula throws his hat into the ring next year, the Brazilian real is going from 3.10 today to 3.50 by election day in October 2018. This looks like a fairly conservative estimate for Nomura, suggesting they think Lula doesn't stand a chance. Assuming Lula does stand a chance, and if he wins the first round of voting, then there is no doubt that the Brazilian real heads to 4.00, at least.

"I wouldn't be surprised if Lula runs and wins," says Fernando Pertini, CEO of Millenia Asset Management in Panama City.

Brazil's real is also being pressured by the current leadership which is failing on its promise to deliver pension fund reform. Nomura thinks the real goes to 3.20 by June and then to 3.40 in the fourth quarter before it weakens again next year.

Nomura, which has a few Brazilians on their fixed income team in New York, is still hopeful that they will see some government success on pension reform. But following last week's failure to move forward on a bill in the lower house, Nomura is now starting to rethink things. A more diluted pension reform law may be the best-case scenario at this point.

For what it's worth, Lula's Workers' Party, which was roundly kicked out of office in October, just two months after its president Dilma Rousseff was indicted for accounting fraud, will play up this pension reform failure to the best of their ability in hopes to deter from the Petrobras investigations. In theory, the Workers' Party only has two hands to play. One is the victimization card: "Lula is the victim of a political coup." The other hand is the pension card: "the ruling elites want to take your money and make you work forever."

Brazil's public employees account for roughly 12% of the nation's salaried workforce, according to the OECD. The majority of them retire at or around 50 years of age. The government now wants to increase that to around 65 to 66 years of age, putting Brazilians on par with their American counterparts. The bill is unpopular because many politicians and high net worth public sector employees are against changing the rules.

Find me on Twitter at @BRICBreaker