San Bernardino elementary school shooting: 2 reported dead in suspected murder-suicide, 2 students critically injured
San Bernardino elementary school shooting: 2 reported dead in suspected murder-suicide, 2 students critically injured
California San Bernardino elementary school shooting: 2 reported dead in suspected murder-suicide, 2 students critically injured   Two adults, one male and one female, were shot and killed at a California elementary school Monday in what police believe to be a murder-suicide and two students were rushed to a hospital with critical injuries. San Bernardino Police Captain Ron Maass said the male suspect arrived to visit the female instructor in her classroom at North Park Elementary school in San Bernardino when he opened fire and killed the  teacher and wounded two students before turning the gun on himself. Two adults are deceased in a classroom, believed to be a murder suicide. We believe the suspect is down and there's no further threat. Officals are not releasing names or ages at this time. Authorities are still trying to determine a relationship between the victim and killer. Google Street View  Maass added that one student was airlifted and one student was taken by ground ambulance to local hospitals with critical injuries but says he doesn't believe they were targeted. According to officials, the shooter entered the school and checked in with the front office before heading to the classroom. He did not reveal he had a gun until he came into the room. The incident happened around 10 a.m. local time. Police operations are continuing to secure the area. However, we do believe the threat is down. The school is on lockdown along with two others: Hillside Elementary School and Cajon High School. All students removed from the campus, taken to Cajon High School. Garcia told the San Bernardino Sun that school officials believe the “situation is contained.” All other students were safe and were being taken to Cajon High School, where parents or guardians could pick them up, she said. Students gathered on a field and a blacktop basketball court inside the fenced-in grounds of the campus near a line of school buses. The school has about 600 students in kindergarten through sixth grades. Emergency personnel respond to a shooting inside North Park School Elementary School on Monday, April 10, 2017, in San Bernardino, Calif. (Rick Sforza/Los Angeles Daily News via AP) Marina Ramos told news station KABC-TV that she rushed to the school to try to pick up her grandson after she heard about the shooting. She said she spoke to him, and he told her he was safe but was upset. "He was crying. He's scared," she said. "It was a typical morning and then chaos broke out." Federal law enforcement sources told Fox News that the San Bernardino Police Department is the lead agency responding to and investigating the shooting. The ATF's Los Angeles division has also lent assets to San Bernardino police and the FBI has offered its assistance, the sources added. The city of 216,000 was the site of the December 2015 terror attack that killed 14 people and wounded 22 others at a meeting of San Bernardino County employees. Husband-and-wife shooters Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik were killed in a gunbattle with authorities later that day. The city is known for its high rates of violent crime, especially homicides, and has struggled to emerge from bankruptcy. .

Two adults, one male and one female, were shot and killed at a California elementary school Monday in what police believe to be a murder-suicide and two students were rushed to a hospital with critical injuries.

San Bernardino Police Captain Ron Maass said the male suspect arrived to visit the female instructor in her classroom at North Park Elementary school in San Bernardino when he opened fire and killed the teacher and wounded two students before turning the gun on himself.

Two adults are deceased in a classroom, believed to be a murder suicide. We believe the suspect is down and there's no further threat. — Chief Jarrod Burguan (@SBPDChief) April 10, 2017

Officals are not releasing names or ages at this time.

Authorities are still trying to determine a relationship between the victim and killer.

Expand / Contract Google Street View (The North Park Elementary school in San Bernardino, Calif.)

Maass added that one student was airlifted and one student was taken by ground ambulance to local hospitals with critical injuries but says he doesn't believe they were targeted.

According to officials, the shooter entered the school and checked in with the front office before heading to the classroom. He did not reveal he had a gun until he came into the room.

The incident happened around 10 a.m. local time.

Police operations are continuing to secure the area. However, we do believe the threat is down. — Chief Jarrod Burguan (@SBPDChief) April 10, 2017

The school is on lockdown along with two others: Hillside Elementary School and Cajon High School.

All students removed from the campus, taken to Cajon High School. — Chief Jarrod Burguan (@SBPDChief) April 10, 2017

Garcia told the San Bernardino Sun that school officials believe the “situation is contained.”

All other students were safe and were being taken to Cajon High School, where parents or guardians could pick them up, she said. Students gathered on a field and a blacktop basketball court inside the fenced-in grounds of the campus near a line of school buses.

The school has about 600 students in kindergarten through sixth grades.

Expand / Contract Emergency personnel respond to a shooting inside North Park School Elementary School on Monday, April 10, 2017, in San Bernardino, Calif. (Rick Sforza/Los Angeles Daily News via AP)

Marina Ramos told news station KABC-TV that she rushed to the school to try to pick up her grandson after she heard about the shooting. She said she spoke to him, and he told her he was safe but was upset.

"He was crying. He's scared," she said. "It was a typical morning and then chaos broke out."

Federal law enforcement sources told Fox News that the San Bernardino Police Department is the lead agency responding to and investigating the shooting. The ATF's Los Angeles division has also lent assets to San Bernardino police and the FBI has offered its assistance, the sources added.

The city of 216,000 was the site of the December 2015 terror attack that killed 14 people and wounded 22 others at a meeting of San Bernardino County employees. Husband-and-wife shooters Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik were killed in a gunbattle with authorities later that day.

The city is known for its high rates of violent crime, especially homicides, and has struggled to emerge from bankruptcy.

Click for more from Fox 11.

Fox News' Matt Dean and the Associated Press contributed to this report.contributed to this report.