Michael Savage: Syria Is a No-Win Situation for America
Michael Savage: Syria Is a No-Win Situation for America - Breitbart
FOR OUR NEWSLETTER Michael Savage spoke out forcefully against intervention in Syria and aggression towards Russia during both Thursday’s and Friday’s monologue segments of the . Savage asked Thursday, “who got to you, Mr. President? Who is whispering in your ear and could have made you make this dramatic of a change towards Russia in just three days?” On Friday he condemned the strikes, saying “we just helped ISIS.” Although his Thursday remarks were broadcast before the United States attacked a Syrian airbase , Savage warned against military action that would raise tensions with Russia, saying, “Do you want war with Russia, all of you idiots, all of you fools who are pounding the war drums?” Savage compared President Trump to President Woodrow Wilson, noting that Thursday was the 100-year anniversary of Wilson asking for a declaration of war on Germany. According to Savage, “Like Trump, Woodrow Wilson ran on an ‘America first’ platform. He was elected largely because he kept us out of the war in Europe. But someone got to him, too.” In Savage’s opinion, it is “the generals” who are leading President Trump into military conflicts. At the same time, be believes key advisers are being pushed away from Trump’s team. Savage pointed to both Jeff Sessions and Representative Devin Nunes (R-CA) removing themselves from inquiries into Russia, and also mentioned former Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, saying “the generals have gotten to him and turned him from peace with Russia. And the people standing in the way of war, like Steve Bannon, are being shown the door.” Savage rebuked President Trump on Friday, sarcastically calling the strike a “military tweet.” He later expanded that thought, saying it was “a limp-wristed attack in order to gain the attention of the fools in the media and the fools amongst the so-called republican voters who think this was a real great military action.” He criticized not only the President but also members of Congress on both sides of the aisle who applauded the strikes, exclaiming, “You know you’re on the wrong side if that cesspool of filth supports your actions.” Michael Savage believes Thursday’s strike was a poor decision by President Trump that is out of line with the goals of his campaign and the desires of those who voted for him. Savage asked, “how is is this an ‘America first’ decision?” He added that Syrian intervention wouldn’t create a single job and is a no-win situation for America, likely to turn into another quagmire. He also used his monologue to lay out a case that the poison gas attack may not be what it seems. According to Savage, “This was a complete false flag event… Assad had nothing to gain by gassing his own people.” He believes the symptoms witnessed in Syria are consistent with a phosgene gas, not the sarin gas widely reported. He stated “the West jumped to a conclusion,” and later added, “we just helped ISIS.” Michael Savage refers to himself as a “conservative peacenik.” He may have titled his latest book , but that was in no way a reference to military intervention in Syria. Savage cited his book at several points on Friday to discuss the groups now cheering the President’s actions, including establishment Republicans and the mainstream media. Savage’s Thursday and Friday broadcasts clearly demonstrate that he is not an apologist for the Trump administration. He is proving a point made in as highlighted in our review of the book — in which he says “I will continue to do my job as a member of the fourth estate: to be a thorn in the government’s side, even Donald Trump’s government, if it goes off course.”

SIGN UP FOR OUR NEWSLETTER

Michael Savage spoke out forcefully against intervention in Syria and aggression towards Russia during both Thursday’s and Friday’s monologue segments of the Michael Savage Show.

Savage asked Thursday, “who got to you, Mr. President? Who is whispering in your ear and could have made you make this dramatic of a change towards Russia in just three days?” On Friday he condemned the strikes, saying “we just helped ISIS.”

Although his Thursday remarks were broadcast before the United States attacked a Syrian airbase, Savage warned against military action that would raise tensions with Russia, saying, “Do you want war with Russia, all of you idiots, all of you fools who are pounding the war drums?” Savage compared President Trump to President Woodrow Wilson, noting that Thursday was the 100-year anniversary of Wilson asking for a declaration of war on Germany. According to Savage, “Like Trump, Woodrow Wilson ran on an ‘America first’ platform. He was elected largely because he kept us out of the war in Europe. But someone got to him, too.”

In Savage’s opinion, it is “the generals” who are leading President Trump into military conflicts. At the same time, be believes key advisers are being pushed away from Trump’s team. Savage pointed to both Jeff Sessions and Representative Devin Nunes (R-CA) removing themselves from inquiries into Russia, and also mentioned former Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen K. Bannon, saying “the generals have gotten to him and turned him from peace with Russia. And the people standing in the way of war, like Steve Bannon, are being shown the door.”

Savage rebuked President Trump on Friday, sarcastically calling the strike a “military tweet.” He later expanded that thought, saying it was “a limp-wristed attack in order to gain the attention of the fools in the media and the fools amongst the so-called republican voters who think this was a real great military action.” He criticized not only the President but also members of Congress on both sides of the aisle who applauded the strikes, exclaiming, “You know you’re on the wrong side if that cesspool of filth supports your actions.”

Michael Savage believes Thursday’s strike was a poor decision by President Trump that is out of line with the goals of his campaign and the desires of those who voted for him. Savage asked, “how is is this an ‘America first’ decision?” He added that Syrian intervention wouldn’t create a single job and is a no-win situation for America, likely to turn into another quagmire.

He also used his monologue to lay out a case that the poison gas attack may not be what it seems. According to Savage, “This was a complete false flag event… Assad had nothing to gain by gassing his own people.” He believes the symptoms witnessed in Syria are consistent with a phosgene gas, not the sarin gas widely reported. He stated “the West jumped to a conclusion,” and later added, “we just helped ISIS.”

Michael Savage refers to himself as a “conservative peacenik.” He may have titled his latest book Trump’s War, but that was in no way a reference to military intervention in Syria. Savage cited his book at several points on Friday to discuss the groups now cheering the President’s actions, including establishment Republicans and the mainstream media.

Savage’s Thursday and Friday broadcasts clearly demonstrate that he is not an apologist for the Trump administration. He is proving a point made in Trump’s War as highlighted in our review of the book — in which he says “I will continue to do my job as a member of the fourth estate: to be a thorn in the government’s side, even Donald Trump’s government, if it goes off course.”

Colin Madine is a contributor and editor at Breitbart News and can be reached at cmadine@breitbart.com