Bride Calls Off Wedding After Watching Groom's Reaction To Guests Leaving Without Dinner
Bride Calls Off Wedding After Watching Groom's Reaction To Guests Leaving Without Dinner
Bride Calls Off Wedding After Watching Groom's Reaction To Guests Leaving Without Dinner After 30 guests went without dinner during a pre-wedding reception in a south Bengaluru wedding hall on Saturday night, the groom's side kicked up a huge row. Though the dispute was resolved, it sowed seeds of doubt in the minds of the bride, who in the wee hours of Sunday, decided not to go ahead with the marriage. Though both sides met and even police were summoned, the girl stood her ground. By afternoon the incident in the Konanakunta marriage hall became a topic of debate on local TV channels. The relatives and the groom himself appeared on TV claiming that the bride's family called off the wedding without any provocation and dinner-related scuffle was just an alibi. The groom even claimed the bride wanted him to leave his parents after marriage and his refusals to do so was the reason for calling of the marriage. The groom's family later gave a statement that they were ready for the marriage and the media should convince the girl. However, the girl's family did not change their stance. In her statement to the media in the morning, the bride said she couldn't live with someone who didn't stand up for her and her family.

After 30 guests went without dinner during a pre-wedding reception in a south Bengaluru wedding hall on Saturday night, the groom's side kicked up a huge row. Though the dispute was resolved, it sowed seeds of doubt in the minds of the bride, who in the wee hours of Sunday, decided not to go ahead with the marriage.

sadifest/Representational Image

Though both sides met and even police were summoned, the girl stood her ground. By afternoon the incident in the Konanakunta marriage hall became a topic of debate on local TV channels. The relatives and the groom himself appeared on TV claiming that the bride's family called off the wedding without any provocation and dinner-related scuffle was just an alibi.

unitedwithlove/Representational Image

The groom even claimed the bride wanted him to leave his parents after marriage and his refusals to do so was the reason for calling of the marriage.

The groom's family later gave a statement that they were ready for the marriage and the media should convince the girl. However, the girl's family did not change their stance. In her statement to the media in the morning, the bride said she couldn't live with someone who didn't stand up for her and her family.

Originally published in Times of India

Don't Miss 992 SHARES 402 SHARES 45.4 K SHARES 43.5 K SHARES 124.6 K SHARES