Islamophobia in China on the rise fuelled by online hate speech
Islamophobia in China on the rise fuelled by online hate speech
The flood of angry anti-Muslim rhetoric on social media was the first sign of how fiercely the suburban middle-class homeowners in this central China city opposed a planned mosque in their neighbourhood. It quickly escalated into something more sinister. Soon a pig's head was buried in the ground at the future Nangang mosque, the culmination of a rally in which dozens of residents hoisted banners and circled the planned building site. Then the mosque's imam received a text message carrying a death threat: “In case someone in your family dies, I have a coffin for you — and more than one, if necessary.” “How did things get stirred up to this point?” the imam, Tao Yingsheng, said in a recent interview. “Who had even heard of the Nangang mosque before?” On the dusty plains of the Chinese heartland, a bitter fight over a mosque exemplifies how a surge in anti-Muslim sentiment online is spreading into communities across China, exacerbating simmering ethnic and religious tensions that have in the past erupted in bloodshed. It's also posing a dilemma for the ruling Communist Party, which has allowed Islamophobia to fester online for years as part of its campaign to justify security crackdowns in its restive region of Xinjiang. “It's let the genie out of the bottle,” said James Leibold, a professor at La Trobe University in Australia who has tracked the growth of anti-Muslim hate speech on China's internet. Read more Canadian parliament passes anti-Islamophobia motion Hate crimes against US mosques double so far in 2017 Europe has started to enshrine Islamophobia into law Hijabi blogger on what it's like to travel in non-Muslim countries Everyone should read this guide about how to handle Islamophobia Interviews with residents and an examination of social media show how a few disparate online complaints by local homeowners evolved into a concerted campaign to spread hate. Key to it was an unexpected yet influential backer: a Chinese propaganda official, 2,500 kilometres (1,500 miles) away in Xinjiang, whose inflammatory social media posts helped draw people into the streets on New Year's Day, resulting in a police crackdown. A stone inscription outside its gate shows the original Nangang mosque was established in the 1780s by members of the Hui minority, the descendants of Silk Road traders who settled across China centuries ago. In its present form, the mosque has served the area's 4,500 Hui for decades, its domed silhouette partially hidden by overgrown shrubs in the countryside beyond Hefei's last paved boulevards. Over the past 10 years urbanisation has come to Hefei, with sprawling development reconfiguring the landscape and its demographic flavour, and Hui leaders had been pushing for years to relocate their mosque to a more convenient urban location. City planners in November finally selected a site adjacent to the newly built Hangkong New City condominiums, with its $200,000 two-bedroom units, faux-Mediterranean stylings and a Volvo dealership across the street. The project's homeowners overwhelmingly members of China's ethnic Han majority began complaining on China's popular microblog, Weibo . Some complained the mosque would occupy space promised for a park. Others warned that safety in the area would be compromised. Others were more blunt: Han residents were uncomfortable that a centre for Hui community life would be less than 100 metres (300 feet) from their building, a homeowner who later identified himself in messages to the AP by his surname, Cheng, wrote in a petition posted in December. “And the less said about what happens on Eid al-Adha, the better,” Cheng wrote, referring to the Islamic holiday in which animals are slaughtered for a sacrificial feast. “It's absolutely shocking.” The story soon caught the attention of Cui Zijian, a boyish-looking propaganda official in Xinjiang who writes about the threat of religious extremism on his Weibo account with nearly 30,000 followers. On December 16, Cui suggested homeowners lobby local officials to block the construction, adding: “If that doesn't work, then how about pig head, pig blood.” Cui followed that a few hours later with another post repeating the four Chinese characters for pig blood and pig head over and over, attracting hundreds of reposts. While Cui was criticised by some on Weibo, a larger number — including at least one other government propaganda official — took his post as their cue to hurl abuse at the Hui. The mosque dispute was just the latest flashpoint for an increasingly active anti-Muslim social media movement in China. A video of a Hui girl reciting the Quran in Arabic sparked outrage last May over so-called terrorist infiltration of Chinese schools, prompting officials to announce a “strict ban” on religion on campuses. Online activists derailed a Hui official's effort to regulate the halal food industry, arguing that religion was creeping into the officially atheistic Chinese state. Han Chinese, who make up 95 percent of the population, have long grumbled about the dozens of China's officially recognised minority groups receiving advantages on the hyper-competitive college entrance exams or exemptions from family-size limits, but online abuse has increasingly targeted Muslims. The rise in Islamophobia comes as Chinese have been buffeted by news of militant attacks in Europe, while at home, violence in Xinjiang and elsewhere has been blamed on Muslim separatists. Beijing has responded to the bloody, years-long insurgency from Muslim Uighur minorities in Xinjiang with further restrictions on Islamic expression, a move rights groups warn could potentially radicalise moderate Muslims. Such policies have also drawn vows of retaliation from Isis and al-Qaeda . Ethnic hostility can only deepen, scholars say, when the government stops discussion of the plight of Muslims or ethnic policies while allowing anti-Muslim rhetoric and hate speech to go unchecked. In 2014, Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti, who had founded a website to host debates about ethnic tensions in Xinjiang, was sentenced to life in prison on separatism charges. Government censors go after descriptions of abuses against Muslims, but “it doesn't take long whatsoever to find incredibly Islamophobic things that seem to be not censored at all,” said William Nee, China researcher at Amnesty International, which has appealed for Tohti's release. Political observers say the recent rise of a faction within the Communist Party advocating for a hard-line approach on religious affairs has coincided with the rise of government-linked commentators who openly warn about the danger of Islam. “Interest groups have actively promoted Islamophobia in interior regions in order to create a nationwide environment that justifies Xinjiang's anti-terrorism campaign,” said Ma Haiyun, a history professor specialising in China's Muslims at Frostburg State University in Maryland. “There's an Islamophobic movement that aims at creating chaos and even conflicts at the local level.” After briefly moderating his remarks about the Nangang mosque, the propaganda official, Cui, renewed his criticism in February with an essay arguing that his professional and patriotic duty was to resist extremism. His online speech about Muslims was part of the job, he said. “For that, we're labelled Muslim-smearers,” wrote Cui, who did not respond to repeated requests for comment. “But it is those who instigate a fear of Islam, precisely the terrorists and the extremists, who are the ones smearing Muslims.” Reached in March, an official at the propaganda department where he worked refused to comment on Cui's involvement in the controversy. But Cui now appears to be even better positioned to influence discourse: The official said Cui was transferred in February to work in the cyberspace administration, the agency in charge of censoring online speech. Tao, the 50-year old imam, recalled the day in December when he heard his mosque was suddenly the subject of thousands of posts and hundreds of comments on Weibo, a service he barely used. He soon found himself soothing local Hui who approached him, shaken by what they were seeing online. “They said people were planning to hang a pig's head outside our mosque. I said, 'Then we'll remove it.' They said people will bury a pig's head in the ground. I said 'Why can't we just dig it up?”' Tao said. After protesters followed through with the threat at the New Year's Day demonstration, police detained two protest leaders for two weeks and summoned others for questioning, according to residents. Since then Han indignation has gave way to quiet seething. “People have been scared into silence,” said Cheng, the Han tea seller. During a recent visit to Hangkong New City, homeowners repeated the government's mantra that ethnic unity was important, but complained that officials sacrificed their interests to appease a minority. “If 99 percent of our compound is Han, it doesn't seem appropriate that they put a mosque next door,” said a middle-aged woman who said her surname was Han. Ma Jianhua, a Nangang district planning official, told the AP that construction will proceed after his office “appropriately handled” homeowners' petitions, but declined to elaborate. The mosque dispute has left the city's Hui community on the defensive, with many eager to emphasise their desire to peacefully coexist with their Han neighbours as well as their confidence in the government's handling of the situation. At a ranch past the undulating rapeseed field that separates the condos from rubble-strewn Huimin Lu — Hui People's Road — workers at what is one of the few Hui businesses that hasn't been demolished to make way for high-rises expressed surprise about the mosque dispute, given the area's history of ethnic mingling. “We've been in these parts a long time,” a worker surnamed Tao, who is not related to the imam, said as he loaded sacks of dried fatty beef. “We mind our business and they mind theirs. We don't stir up trouble and they don't either.” But Tao, the imam, seemed to acknowledge a hardening of attitudes toward Muslims in recent years. World news in pictures               World news in pictures       Paramedics work at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm   Rex        Reports say three people have died after a truck crashed into an Ahlens department store in Stockholm
Truck drives into crowds on a street in central Stockholm   Rex        The guided-missile destroyer USS Porter (DDG 78) launches a tomahawk land attack missile in the Mediterranean Sea   AP        The United States military launched at least 50 tomahawk cruise missiles at al-Shayrat military airfield near Homs, Syria, in response to the Syrian military's alleged use of chemical weapons in an airstrike in a rebel held area in Idlib province   EPA        Demonstrators pray next to mock coffins during a protest against Russian and Iran in Ankara, Turkey   Reuters        People carry symbolic coffins with pictures of Syrian victims and inscriptions which translates as "killer Asad" and "killer Putin" during a protest against Russia for its alleged role in a chemical attack in the Syrian province of Idlib, in front of the Russian embassy, in Ankara   Getty Images     6 April 2017   A man watches a TV news program reporting about North Korea's missile firing with a file footage, at Seoul Train Station in Seoul, South Korea   AP     6 April 2017   Filipino villagers collect recyclable materials amongst debris following a fire at a shanty town in Bacoor, Cavite province, Philippines   EPA     6 April 2017   According to media reports, more than a thousand familes were left homeless from the fire, which burned around seven hundred shanties. The fire marshal, Superintendent Robert Pacis, stated that the four-hour fire was likely started by children allegedly playing with matches in the house of a person named Raffy Una   EPA     6 April 2017   Filipino Eddito Fernandez displays his hands that are covered in dirt as he collects belongings amongst debris following a fire at a shanty town in Bacoor, Cavite province, Philippines   EPA     6 April 2017   Israeli forces stand guard at the scene of a Palestinian car ramming attack near the Jewish settlement of Ofra near the West Bank city of Ramallah   Reuters     6 April 2017   Israeli soldiers and police arrest a Palestinian attacker at the scene of a car ramming attack near the Israeli settlement of Ofra, north of Ramallah   EPA     6 April 2017   One Israeli was killed and another wounded in a car-ramming attack near the Ofra settlement in the occupied West Bank, the army said. The alleged attacker was arrested, an army statement said, without giving details about him   Getty Images     6 April 2017   Activists of the Basle political action committee 'March against Monsanto and Syngenta' protest in front of the Syngenta headquarters against the acquisition of Syngenta by the Chinese company ChemChina, in Basle, Switzerland   EPA     5 April 2017   Universidad de Chile fans clash with the police during a Copa Sudamericana soccer match against Brazil's Corinthians in Sao Paulo, Brazil   AP     5 April 2017   Universidad de Chile fans scuffle with riot police during their match agains Corinthians at the Arena Corinthians Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil   Getty Images     5 April 2017   Members of the military police of Sao Paulo clash with supporters of Universidad de Chile before the Copa Sudamericana soccer match between Corinthians and Universidad de Chile at the Arena Itaquera Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil   EPA     5 April 2017   Members of the military police of Sao Paulo clash with supporters of Universidad de Chile before the Copa Sudamericana soccer match between Corinthians and Universidad de Chile at the Arena Itaquera Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil   EPA     5 April 2017   Jose Adan Salazar Umana, a businessman and alleged leader of the Texis Cartel, one of the largest money laundering and drug trafficking networks in El Salvador, is presented at the headquarters of the National Civil Police in San Salvador, El Salvador   EPA     5 April 2017   Nikki Haley, United States' Ambassador United Nations, shows pictures of Syrian victims of chemical attacks as she addresses a meeting of the Security Council on Syria at U.N. headquarters   AP     5 April 2017   Russia's deputy UN ambassador, Vladimir Safronkov attends the United Nations Security Council meet in an emergency session at the UN in New York, about the suspected deadly chemical attack that killed civilians, including children, in Syria   Getty Images     5 April 2017   Syrian children, along first aiders and civil defense volunteers, hold placards and photos showing victims of the recent alleged chemical attack Khan Sheikhoun, during a gathering to show solidarity with the victims in Douma, Syria   EPA     5 April 2017   Reports state 72 people, including 20 children, were killed in an alleged chemical attack on Khan Sheikhoun of Idlib province   EPA     4 April 2017   Destruction at a hospital room in Khan Sheikhun, a rebel-held town in the northwestern Syrian Idlib province, following a suspected toxic gas attack   AFP/Getty Images     4 April 2017   Abdul-Hamid Alyousef, 29, holds his twin babies who were killed during a suspected chemical weapons attack, in Khan Sheikhoun in the northern province of Idlib, Syria. Alyousef also lost his wife, two brothers, nephews and many other family members in the attack that claimed scores of his relatives   Alaa Alyousef via AP     3 April 2017   Omid, whose surname has not been released, during an interview with the Press Association at a care home in north London.  The 54-year-old, who has a non-terminal but incurable illness and is seeking a change in the law on assisted dying, has refused to see his children for more than half a year because he does not want them to witness his deteriorating health   PA wire     2 April 2017   Colombian soldiers evacuating victims from the landslide-hit town of Mocoa, Putumayo region, Colombia   EPA     2 April 2017   Colombian soldiers working in the evacuation of victims from the landslide-hit town of Mocoa, Putumayo region, Colombia   EPA     2 April 2017   The death toll from a devastating landslide in the Colombian town of Mocoa stood at around 200 on Sunday as rescuers clawed through piles of muck and debris in search of survivors   Getty Images     2 April 2017   Members of the Dubai Civil Defence arrive at the scene of a fire which broke out in a construction site near the Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, and burned for several hours in Dubai   Getty Images     2 April 2017   Emirati firefighters try to put out a fire which broke out in a construction site near the Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, and burned for several hours in Dubai   Getty Images     1 April 2017   People attend the funeral services for Timothy Caughman. Caughman was alone and collecting bottles for recycling last month when he was attacked from behind with a sword.  His assailant, James Harris Jackson, took a bus last month to New York to kill black men.  Jackson is being held without bail on charges of murder as a hate crime   AP     1 April 2017   Fidelino Quintana and his wife Felicita, parents of Rodrigo Quintana, who was killed last night by a rubber bullet fired by the police in the headquarters of the Liberal Party after clashes, react during their son's funeral in Asuncion, Paraguay   Reuters     1 April 2017   Relatives and friends mourn over the coffin of Rodrigo Quintana, 25, leader of the opposition Liberal Party's youth branch, who was shot dead on the eve during a protest against the approval of a constitutional amendment for presidential re-election, in Asuncion   Getty Images     1 April 2017   A relative cries as she attends the wake of Rodrigo Quintana, a member of the Authentic Radical Liberal Party who was killed in an incident at party's headquarters away from congress at the party's headquarters on Friday, in Asuncion, Paraguay   AP     1 April 2017   Smashed windows at the Congress building, set on fire on the eve by demonstrators protesting against the approval of a constitutional amendment for presidential re-election, in Asuncion, Paraguay   Getty Images  “It may be that the situation has grown more sensitive in that place that we all know about,” he said after a pause, referring to but not daring to mention Xinjiang. Still he tries to not harbour resentment toward the Han protesters. “I don't blame the locals because I believe they were influenced,” he said, sitting below framed pictures of him greeting government religious affairs officials. “I want them to know Muslims are virtuous people. We are peaceful. We are reasonable. We are tolerant. And we are good Chinese.” More about: China Islamophobia Weibo Anhui Comments

The flood of angry anti-Muslim rhetoric on social media was the first sign of how fiercely the suburban middle-class homeowners in this central China city opposed a planned mosque in their neighbourhood. It quickly escalated into something more sinister.

Soon a pig's head was buried in the ground at the future Nangang mosque, the culmination of a rally in which dozens of residents hoisted banners and circled the planned building site. Then the mosque's imam received a text message carrying a death threat: “In case someone in your family dies, I have a coffin for you — and more than one, if necessary.”

“How did things get stirred up to this point?” the imam, Tao Yingsheng, said in a recent interview. “Who had even heard of the Nangang mosque before?”

On the dusty plains of the Chinese heartland, a bitter fight over a mosque exemplifies how a surge in anti-Muslim sentiment online is spreading into communities across China, exacerbating simmering ethnic and religious tensions that have in the past erupted in bloodshed. It's also posing a dilemma for the ruling Communist Party, which has allowed Islamophobia to fester online for years as part of its campaign to justify security crackdowns in its restive region of Xinjiang.

“It's let the genie out of the bottle,” said James Leibold, a professor at La Trobe University in Australia who has tracked the growth of anti-Muslim hate speech on China's internet.

Interviews with residents and an examination of social media show how a few disparate online complaints by local homeowners evolved into a concerted campaign to spread hate. Key to it was an unexpected yet influential backer: a Chinese propaganda official, 2,500 kilometres (1,500 miles) away in Xinjiang, whose inflammatory social media posts helped draw people into the streets on New Year's Day, resulting in a police crackdown.

A stone inscription outside its gate shows the original Nangang mosque was established in the 1780s by members of the Hui minority, the descendants of Silk Road traders who settled across China centuries ago. In its present form, the mosque has served the area's 4,500 Hui for decades, its domed silhouette partially hidden by overgrown shrubs in the countryside beyond Hefei's last paved boulevards.

Over the past 10 years urbanisation has come to Hefei, with sprawling development reconfiguring the landscape and its demographic flavour, and Hui leaders had been pushing for years to relocate their mosque to a more convenient urban location.

City planners in November finally selected a site adjacent to the newly built Hangkong New City condominiums, with its $200,000 two-bedroom units, faux-Mediterranean stylings and a Volvo dealership across the street. The project's homeowners overwhelmingly members of China's ethnic Han majority began complaining on China's popular microblog, Weibo.

Some complained the mosque would occupy space promised for a park. Others warned that safety in the area would be compromised.

Others were more blunt: Han residents were uncomfortable that a centre for Hui community life would be less than 100 metres (300 feet) from their building, a homeowner who later identified himself in messages to the AP by his surname, Cheng, wrote in a petition posted in December.

“And the less said about what happens on Eid al-Adha, the better,” Cheng wrote, referring to the Islamic holiday in which animals are slaughtered for a sacrificial feast. “It's absolutely shocking.”

The story soon caught the attention of Cui Zijian, a boyish-looking propaganda official in Xinjiang who writes about the threat of religious extremism on his Weibo account with nearly 30,000 followers.

On December 16, Cui suggested homeowners lobby local officials to block the construction, adding: “If that doesn't work, then how about pig head, pig blood.”

Cui followed that a few hours later with another post repeating the four Chinese characters for pig blood and pig head over and over, attracting hundreds of reposts. While Cui was criticised by some on Weibo, a larger number — including at least one other government propaganda official — took his post as their cue to hurl abuse at the Hui.

The mosque dispute was just the latest flashpoint for an increasingly active anti-Muslim social media movement in China.

A video of a Hui girl reciting the Quran in Arabic sparked outrage last May over so-called terrorist infiltration of Chinese schools, prompting officials to announce a “strict ban” on religion on campuses. Online activists derailed a Hui official's effort to regulate the halal food industry, arguing that religion was creeping into the officially atheistic Chinese state.

The Nangang mosque (Gerry Shih /AP)

Han Chinese, who make up 95 percent of the population, have long grumbled about the dozens of China's officially recognised minority groups receiving advantages on the hyper-competitive college entrance exams or exemptions from family-size limits, but online abuse has increasingly targeted Muslims.

The rise in Islamophobia comes as Chinese have been buffeted by news of militant attacks in Europe, while at home, violence in Xinjiang and elsewhere has been blamed on Muslim separatists. Beijing has responded to the bloody, years-long insurgency from Muslim Uighur minorities in Xinjiang with further restrictions on Islamic expression, a move rights groups warn could potentially radicalise moderate Muslims. Such policies have also drawn vows of retaliation from Isis and al-Qaeda.

Ethnic hostility can only deepen, scholars say, when the government stops discussion of the plight of Muslims or ethnic policies while allowing anti-Muslim rhetoric and hate speech to go unchecked. In 2014, Uighur scholar Ilham Tohti, who had founded a website to host debates about ethnic tensions in Xinjiang, was sentenced to life in prison on separatism charges.

Government censors go after descriptions of abuses against Muslims, but “it doesn't take long whatsoever to find incredibly Islamophobic things that seem to be not censored at all,” said William Nee, China researcher at Amnesty International, which has appealed for Tohti's release.

Political observers say the recent rise of a faction within the Communist Party advocating for a hard-line approach on religious affairs has coincided with the rise of government-linked commentators who openly warn about the danger of Islam.

“Interest groups have actively promoted Islamophobia in interior regions in order to create a nationwide environment that justifies Xinjiang's anti-terrorism campaign,” said Ma Haiyun, a history professor specialising in China's Muslims at Frostburg State University in Maryland. “There's an Islamophobic movement that aims at creating chaos and even conflicts at the local level.”

After briefly moderating his remarks about the Nangang mosque, the propaganda official, Cui, renewed his criticism in February with an essay arguing that his professional and patriotic duty was to resist extremism. His online speech about Muslims was part of the job, he said.

“For that, we're labelled Muslim-smearers,” wrote Cui, who did not respond to repeated requests for comment. “But it is those who instigate a fear of Islam, precisely the terrorists and the extremists, who are the ones smearing Muslims.”

Reached in March, an official at the propaganda department where he worked refused to comment on Cui's involvement in the controversy. But Cui now appears to be even better positioned to influence discourse: The official said Cui was transferred in February to work in the cyberspace administration, the agency in charge of censoring online speech.

Tao, the 50-year old imam, recalled the day in December when he heard his mosque was suddenly the subject of thousands of posts and hundreds of comments on Weibo, a service he barely used. He soon found himself soothing local Hui who approached him, shaken by what they were seeing online.

“They said people were planning to hang a pig's head outside our mosque. I said, 'Then we'll remove it.' They said people will bury a pig's head in the ground. I said 'Why can't we just dig it up?”' Tao said.

After protesters followed through with the threat at the New Year's Day demonstration, police detained two protest leaders for two weeks and summoned others for questioning, according to residents. Since then Han indignation has gave way to quiet seething.

“People have been scared into silence,” said Cheng, the Han tea seller.

During a recent visit to Hangkong New City, homeowners repeated the government's mantra that ethnic unity was important, but complained that officials sacrificed their interests to appease a minority.

“If 99 percent of our compound is Han, it doesn't seem appropriate that they put a mosque next door,” said a middle-aged woman who said her surname was Han.

Ma Jianhua, a Nangang district planning official, told the AP that construction will proceed after his office “appropriately handled” homeowners' petitions, but declined to elaborate.

The mosque dispute has left the city's Hui community on the defensive, with many eager to emphasise their desire to peacefully coexist with their Han neighbours as well as their confidence in the government's handling of the situation.

At a ranch past the undulating rapeseed field that separates the condos from rubble-strewn Huimin Lu — Hui People's Road — workers at what is one of the few Hui businesses that hasn't been demolished to make way for high-rises expressed surprise about the mosque dispute, given the area's history of ethnic mingling.

“We've been in these parts a long time,” a worker surnamed Tao, who is not related to the imam, said as he loaded sacks of dried fatty beef. “We mind our business and they mind theirs. We don't stir up trouble and they don't either.”

But Tao, the imam, seemed to acknowledge a hardening of attitudes toward Muslims in recent years.

World news in pictures







36 show all World news in pictures





































































1/36 Paramedics work at the scene where a truck crashed into the Ahlens department store at Drottninggatan in central Stockholm Rex

2/36 Reports say three people have died after a truck crashed into an Ahlens department store in Stockholm Truck drives into crowds on a street in central Stockholm Rex

3/36 The guided-missile destroyer USS Porter (DDG 78) launches a tomahawk land attack missile in the Mediterranean Sea AP

4/36 The United States military launched at least 50 tomahawk cruise missiles at al-Shayrat military airfield near Homs, Syria, in response to the Syrian military's alleged use of chemical weapons in an airstrike in a rebel held area in Idlib province EPA

5/36 Demonstrators pray next to mock coffins during a protest against Russian and Iran in Ankara, Turkey Reuters

6/36 People carry symbolic coffins with pictures of Syrian victims and inscriptions which translates as "killer Asad" and "killer Putin" during a protest against Russia for its alleged role in a chemical attack in the Syrian province of Idlib, in front of the Russian embassy, in Ankara Getty Images

7/36 6 April 2017 A man watches a TV news program reporting about North Korea's missile firing with a file footage, at Seoul Train Station in Seoul, South Korea AP

8/36 6 April 2017 Filipino villagers collect recyclable materials amongst debris following a fire at a shanty town in Bacoor, Cavite province, Philippines EPA

9/36 6 April 2017 According to media reports, more than a thousand familes were left homeless from the fire, which burned around seven hundred shanties. The fire marshal, Superintendent Robert Pacis, stated that the four-hour fire was likely started by children allegedly playing with matches in the house of a person named Raffy Una EPA

10/36 6 April 2017 Filipino Eddito Fernandez displays his hands that are covered in dirt as he collects belongings amongst debris following a fire at a shanty town in Bacoor, Cavite province, Philippines EPA

11/36 6 April 2017 Israeli forces stand guard at the scene of a Palestinian car ramming attack near the Jewish settlement of Ofra near the West Bank city of Ramallah Reuters

12/36 6 April 2017 Israeli soldiers and police arrest a Palestinian attacker at the scene of a car ramming attack near the Israeli settlement of Ofra, north of Ramallah EPA

13/36 6 April 2017 One Israeli was killed and another wounded in a car-ramming attack near the Ofra settlement in the occupied West Bank, the army said. The alleged attacker was arrested, an army statement said, without giving details about him Getty Images

14/36 6 April 2017 Activists of the Basle political action committee 'March against Monsanto and Syngenta' protest in front of the Syngenta headquarters against the acquisition of Syngenta by the Chinese company ChemChina, in Basle, Switzerland EPA

15/36 5 April 2017 Universidad de Chile fans clash with the police during a Copa Sudamericana soccer match against Brazil's Corinthians in Sao Paulo, Brazil AP

16/36 5 April 2017 Universidad de Chile fans scuffle with riot police during their match agains Corinthians at the Arena Corinthians Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil Getty Images

17/36 5 April 2017 Members of the military police of Sao Paulo clash with supporters of Universidad de Chile before the Copa Sudamericana soccer match between Corinthians and Universidad de Chile at the Arena Itaquera Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil EPA

18/36 5 April 2017 Members of the military police of Sao Paulo clash with supporters of Universidad de Chile before the Copa Sudamericana soccer match between Corinthians and Universidad de Chile at the Arena Itaquera Stadium in Sao Paulo, Brazil EPA

19/36 5 April 2017 Jose Adan Salazar Umana, a businessman and alleged leader of the Texis Cartel, one of the largest money laundering and drug trafficking networks in El Salvador, is presented at the headquarters of the National Civil Police in San Salvador, El Salvador EPA

20/36 5 April 2017 Nikki Haley, United States' Ambassador United Nations, shows pictures of Syrian victims of chemical attacks as she addresses a meeting of the Security Council on Syria at U.N. headquarters AP

21/36 5 April 2017 Russia's deputy UN ambassador, Vladimir Safronkov attends the United Nations Security Council meet in an emergency session at the UN in New York, about the suspected deadly chemical attack that killed civilians, including children, in Syria Getty Images

22/36 5 April 2017 Syrian children, along first aiders and civil defense volunteers, hold placards and photos showing victims of the recent alleged chemical attack Khan Sheikhoun, during a gathering to show solidarity with the victims in Douma, Syria EPA

23/36 5 April 2017 Reports state 72 people, including 20 children, were killed in an alleged chemical attack on Khan Sheikhoun of Idlib province EPA

24/36 4 April 2017 Destruction at a hospital room in Khan Sheikhun, a rebel-held town in the northwestern Syrian Idlib province, following a suspected toxic gas attack AFP/Getty Images

25/36 4 April 2017 Abdul-Hamid Alyousef, 29, holds his twin babies who were killed during a suspected chemical weapons attack, in Khan Sheikhoun in the northern province of Idlib, Syria. Alyousef also lost his wife, two brothers, nephews and many other family members in the attack that claimed scores of his relatives Alaa Alyousef via AP

26/36 3 April 2017 Omid, whose surname has not been released, during an interview with the Press Association at a care home in north London. The 54-year-old, who has a non-terminal but incurable illness and is seeking a change in the law on assisted dying, has refused to see his children for more than half a year because he does not want them to witness his deteriorating health PA wire

27/36 2 April 2017 Colombian soldiers evacuating victims from the landslide-hit town of Mocoa, Putumayo region, Colombia EPA

28/36 2 April 2017 Colombian soldiers working in the evacuation of victims from the landslide-hit town of Mocoa, Putumayo region, Colombia EPA

29/36 2 April 2017 The death toll from a devastating landslide in the Colombian town of Mocoa stood at around 200 on Sunday as rescuers clawed through piles of muck and debris in search of survivors Getty Images

30/36 2 April 2017 Members of the Dubai Civil Defence arrive at the scene of a fire which broke out in a construction site near the Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, and burned for several hours in Dubai Getty Images

31/36 2 April 2017 Emirati firefighters try to put out a fire which broke out in a construction site near the Dubai Mall and Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, and burned for several hours in Dubai Getty Images

32/36 1 April 2017 People attend the funeral services for Timothy Caughman. Caughman was alone and collecting bottles for recycling last month when he was attacked from behind with a sword. His assailant, James Harris Jackson, took a bus last month to New York to kill black men. Jackson is being held without bail on charges of murder as a hate crime AP

33/36 1 April 2017 Fidelino Quintana and his wife Felicita, parents of Rodrigo Quintana, who was killed last night by a rubber bullet fired by the police in the headquarters of the Liberal Party after clashes, react during their son's funeral in Asuncion, Paraguay Reuters

34/36 1 April 2017 Relatives and friends mourn over the coffin of Rodrigo Quintana, 25, leader of the opposition Liberal Party's youth branch, who was shot dead on the eve during a protest against the approval of a constitutional amendment for presidential re-election, in Asuncion Getty Images

35/36 1 April 2017 A relative cries as she attends the wake of Rodrigo Quintana, a member of the Authentic Radical Liberal Party who was killed in an incident at party's headquarters away from congress at the party's headquarters on Friday, in Asuncion, Paraguay AP

36/36 1 April 2017 Smashed windows at the Congress building, set on fire on the eve by demonstrators protesting against the approval of a constitutional amendment for presidential re-election, in Asuncion, Paraguay Getty Images

“It may be that the situation has grown more sensitive in that place that we all know about,” he said after a pause, referring to but not daring to mention Xinjiang.

Still he tries to not harbour resentment toward the Han protesters.

“I don't blame the locals because I believe they were influenced,” he said, sitting below framed pictures of him greeting government religious affairs officials. “I want them to know Muslims are virtuous people. We are peaceful. We are reasonable. We are tolerant. And we are good Chinese.”

Associated Press