Reliance Jio Promises Tariff Packs And 'Exciting New Offers' To Customers Very Soon
Reliance Jio Promises Tariff Packs And "Exciting New Offers" To Customers Very Soon
Reliance Jio Promises Tariff Packs And 'Exciting New Offers' To Customers Very Soon Now that its ‘Summer Surprise’ offer has been discontinued, Reliance Jio has set out to attract users with the promise of new offers soon. The company posted an announcement on its website, saying it will soon be making available new tariff packs and special offers. However, the company is keeping customers in suspense, refusing to divulge any further details before launch day. The announcement comes shortly after the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) last week ordered Reliance Jio to withdraw its 'Summer Surprise' offer . TRAI said the reason for the order was that the offer did not fit into the existing “regulatory framework” for telecom services. To recap, the ‘Summer Surprise’ offer would provide Jio Prime customers with an additional three months of free smartphone data usage, or at least those who purchased a minimum recharge of Rs 303. To clarify, users who purchased the ‘Summer Surprise’-applicable recharges will still receive the benefits promised, but the offer itself will soon be unavailable to other customers. Reliance Jio has said it’s ready to comply with TRAI’s notice, and will be withdrawing the new offer “as soon as operationally feasible, over the next few days.”

Now that its ‘Summer Surprise’ offer has been discontinued, Reliance Jio has set out to attract users with the promise of new offers soon.

The company posted an announcement on its website, saying it will soon be making available new tariff packs and special offers. However, the company is keeping customers in suspense, refusing to divulge any further details before launch day.

The announcement comes shortly after the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) last week ordered Reliance Jio to withdraw its 'Summer Surprise' offer. TRAI said the reason for the order was that the offer did not fit into the existing “regulatory framework” for telecom services.

To recap, the ‘Summer Surprise’ offer would provide Jio Prime customers with an additional three months of free smartphone data usage, or at least those who purchased a minimum recharge of Rs 303. To clarify, users who purchased the ‘Summer Surprise’-applicable recharges will still receive the benefits promised, but the offer itself will soon be unavailable to other customers.

Reliance Jio has said it’s ready to comply with TRAI’s notice, and will be withdrawing the new offer “as soon as operationally feasible, over the next few days.”