NFL Players Reportedly to Be Fined for Participating in Las Vegas Arm Wrestling
NFL Players Reportedly to Be Fined for Participating in Las Vegas Arm Wrestling
NFL players who participated in a Las Vegas arm wrestling contest will be fined by the league for a violation of its gambling policy. Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported the news. Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison, Miami Dolphins Kenny Stills San Francisco 49ers NaVorro Bowman Oakland Raiders Marquette King were among the active NFL players who participated in the event. Former NFL running back Marshawn Lynch , who is currently contemplating a comeback, was also among the headliners. The event featured more than 30 current and former NFL players, according to David Purdum of ESPN.com. The Pro Football Arm Wrestling Championship took place from April 5-9 in Las Vegas and is slated to air on CBS on May 27-28 and June 3. “Had we been asked in advance if this was acceptable, we would have indicated that it was in direct violation of the gambling policy,” Joe Lockhart, the NFL’s executive vice president for communications and public affairs, told Jarrett Bell of . “No one sought pre-approval.” The NFL has bans in place on events taking place in Las Vegas, which has legalized sports gambling. In the past, the league has banned players from participating in sponsored events in the city—most notably a fantasy football event with former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo. The NFL approved the Raiders' move to Las Vegas in March.  Like the new article format? Send us feedback ! Where can I comment?

Charles LeClaire-USA TODAY Sports

NFL players who participated in a Las Vegas arm wrestling contest will be fined by the league for a violation of its gambling policy.

Ian Rapoport of NFL Network reported the news.

Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker James Harrison, Miami Dolphins wide receiver Kenny Stills, San Francisco 49ers linebacker NaVorro Bowman and Oakland Raiders punter Marquette King were among the active NFL players who participated in the event. Former NFL running back Marshawn Lynch, who is currently contemplating a comeback, was also among the headliners.

The event featured more than 30 current and former NFL players, according to David Purdum of ESPN.com. The Pro Football Arm Wrestling Championship took place from April 5-9 in Las Vegas and is slated to air on CBS on May 27-28 and June 3.

“Had we been asked in advance if this was acceptable, we would have indicated that it was in direct violation of the gambling policy,” Joe Lockhart, the NFL’s executive vice president for communications and public affairs, told Jarrett Bell of USA Today. “No one sought pre-approval.”

The NFL has bans in place on events taking place in Las Vegas, which has legalized sports gambling. In the past, the league has banned players from participating in sponsored events in the city—most notably a fantasy football event with former Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo. The NFL approved the Raiders' move to Las Vegas in March.

Players who are part of the winning individual and team competitions will have some of the prize money donated to a charity of their choice.