Wait, Are Quavo and Karrueche Dating?
Wait, Are Quavo and Karrueche Dating?
Quavo and Karrueche Tran may or may not be actively engaging in couple stuff together. The two were spotted by  's team of people who follow other, more successful people around for a living doing some vaguely couple-esque stuff at this weekend's Gulf Coast Spring Fest in Biloxi, Mississippi. The fest took place Saturday at Mississippi Coast Coliseum and included performances from Migos , Jeezy, Boosie Badazz, Lloyd, Meek Mill, and more. Quavo and Karrueche Tran are dating. What are your thoughts? pic.twitter.com/KZdlcNyDUd Karrueche Tran, at least according to , watched Migos' set from backstage. After the show, Quavo and his team made their way to the venue's exit. Tran joined them. Citing alleged "eyewitnesses,"  said Quavo and Tran had a quick hug before leaving the venue "in the same whip . . . by themselves." This seemingly marks the first time Quavo and Tran have been linked in the press. Last month, Quavo was hit with similar dating rumors regarding Lira Galore.  reported in March that Quavo and Galore, who previously dated Rick Ross, were seen "in the VIP of a club in North Carolina." Karrueche Tran was granted a temporary restraining order against ex Chris Brown in February. Court documents obtained by  showed Tran had accused Brown of threatening to kill her. In the documents, said, Tran stated that Brown "threatened to kill me to others, threatened me via text messages and threatened to harass my friends." In March, reported that Tran was seeking a permanent restraining order against Brown.

Quavo and Karrueche Tran may or may not be actively engaging in couple stuff together. The two were spotted by TMZ's team of people who follow other, more successful people around for a living doing some vaguely couple-esque stuff at this weekend's Gulf Coast Spring Fest in Biloxi, Mississippi. The fest took place Saturday at Mississippi Coast Coliseum and included performances from Migos, Jeezy, Boosie Badazz, Lloyd, Meek Mill, and more.

Quavo and Karrueche Tran are dating. What are your thoughts? pic.twitter.com/KZdlcNyDUd — DMV (@TheDMVDaily) April 10, 2017

Karrueche Tran, at least according to TMZ, watched Migos' set from backstage. After the show, Quavo and his team made their way to the venue's exit. Tran joined them. Citing alleged "eyewitnesses," TMZ said Quavo and Tran had a quick hug before leaving the venue "in the same whip . . . by themselves."

This seemingly marks the first time Quavo and Tran have been linked in the press. Last month, Quavo was hit with similar dating rumors regarding Lira Galore. XXL reported in March that Quavo and Galore, who previously dated Rick Ross, were seen "in the VIP of a club in North Carolina."

Karrueche Tran was granted a temporary restraining order against ex Chris Brown in February. Court documents obtained by E! News showed Tran had accused Brown of threatening to kill her. In the documents, E! said, Tran stated that Brown "threatened to kill me to others, threatened me via text messages and threatened to harass my friends." In March, TMZ reported that Tran was seeking a permanent restraining order against Brown.