Commuting To Gurugram Just Became A Nightmare, Haryana Govt. Introduces New Tax On Cabs
Commuting To Gurugram Just Became A Nightmare, Haryana Govt. Introduces New Tax On Cabs
Commuting To Gurugram Just Became A Nightmare, Haryana Govt. Introduces New Tax On Cabs The new motor tax introduced by the Haryana government may end up becoming a huge problem for those who travel to Gurgaon for work. Commuters may find it hard to get cab services like Uber and Ola to get to Haryana soon. Haryana government introduced Rs 100 tax for taxis entering the state from April 1. This has replaced the earlier road tax of Rs 950 which was paid to the Regional Transport Authority every three months. Sarvodaya Drivers Association will also hold a protest against the new tax imposed. “After two unsuccessful attempts, an Ola driver agreed to ply towards Gurgaon. One driver said he is part of a protest and is joining the protesters at Central Delhi while another said the lines at the border for payment of taxes deter him from heading there,” Dhruv Virmani, a resident of Shanti Niketan was quoted in HT. “Drivers have to stand in queues for nearly an hour before they can pay their taxes. When we had protested against app-based aggregators earlier this year, the Haryana government had intervened and gave us reassurance that driver’s demands will be fulfilled and ease their lives. However, the new tax collection system has only added to the burden,” Kamaljeet Singh, the president of Sarvodaya Drivers Association too was quoted by HT.

The new motor tax introduced by the Haryana government may end up becoming a huge problem for those who travel to Gurgaon for work. Commuters may find it hard to get cab services like Uber and Ola to get to Haryana soon. Haryana government introduced Rs 100 tax for taxis entering the state from April 1. This has replaced the earlier road tax of Rs 950 which was paid to the Regional Transport Authority every three months.

PTI

Sarvodaya Drivers Association will also hold a protest against the new tax imposed. “After two unsuccessful attempts, an Ola driver agreed to ply towards Gurgaon. One driver said he is part of a protest and is joining the protesters at Central Delhi while another said the lines at the border for payment of taxes deter him from heading there,” Dhruv Virmani, a resident of Shanti Niketan was quoted in HT.

“Drivers have to stand in queues for nearly an hour before they can pay their taxes. When we had protested against app-based aggregators earlier this year, the Haryana government had intervened and gave us reassurance that driver’s demands will be fulfilled and ease their lives. However, the new tax collection system has only added to the burden,” Kamaljeet Singh, the president of Sarvodaya Drivers Association too was quoted by HT.