Helpless dog winched to safety by group of children
Helpless dog winched to safety by children using makeshift lasso


A helpless dog that had fallen to the bottom of a deep well was rescued by children with a lasso made from a vine.

The youngsters lowered down their makeshift rope to the injured dog which was languishing at the bottom of a hole.

But the story didn't end there - as just minutes after they saved the animal the group got lost in the vast landscape and the canine miraculously led them to safety.

The group of children saved the dog from the bottom of a deep well and found him with bleeding claws

The youngsters lowered down their makeshift rope to the injured canine which was languishing at the bottom of a hole

They had heard the animal whimpering in the distance while trekking in the Chandragutti Hills in the Indian state of Karnakata

It came after they saved the dog by hoisting their rope over his body and hauling him to safety.

Prajwal, one of those who found the dog, explained that after saving the canine it then led them off the hill.

He said: 'The dog barked and made a sign to follow him. We followed the dog and came off the hill and in this way ended our trek.'

The group had been the Chandragutti Hills in the Indian state of Karnakata when they heard a dog 'whimpering' in the distance.

They followed the direction of the sound and found the bleeding animal trapped at the bottom of a hidden deep well.

After following the direction of the whimpering the group of children found the dog and pulled him up using their makeshift lasso

The dog is thought to have been trapped for a number of days before being found by the youngsters

After a few attempts they hauled the soaked and dirty pooch to safety before giving it a treat of dried coconut.

The dog is thought to have been trapped for a number of days before being found by the children.

Prajwal said: 'We followed the direction of the sound and saw an undiscovered deep well at the top of the hill.

'There was the bleeding dog in the water, which was vainly trying to come out.

'We searched for a rope to pull out the dog but failed to find any as it was an uninhabited area.

After a few attempts they hauled the soaked and dirty pooch to safety using a vine they had found

The bleeding animal had been trapped at the bottom of the well and had no way to get out until the group arrived

Prajwal, who took the picture above, explained that after saving the canine it then led them off the hill. He said: 'The dog barked and made a sign to follow him. We followed the dog and came off the hill and in this way ended our trek'

'We traced a creeper [vine] which was thick and pulled it out, thinking it would help us.

'We tried our best to bring the dog out of the well after few attempts.

'The claws were bleeding as the dog had been trying to come out for the past few days.'