Charleston church shooter Dylann Roof 'is not all bad,' grandfather says
Charleston church shooter 'is not all bad,' grandfather says
Shares               Families of the Charleston church shooting victims -- and the grandfather of the convicted killer -- spoke out in court today as Dylann Roof pleaded guilty to all state charges against him. As Roof's grandfather Joe Roof, a longtime real estate lawyer in Columbia, South Carolina, addressed the court for the first time today, he said, "Dylann is not all bad." His grandson, who is white, has already been convicted of hate crimes in a federal case and has been sentenced to death for the murders of nine black parishioners at the Emanuel AME Church in June 2015. "We’re sorry," Joe Roof said, adding, "We have been distressed and just sick over what has happened to these families." "My wife and I have them in our prayers every night, every meal," Joe Roof said. "What happened here I will never understand," he added. "I will go to my grave not understanding."   Joe Roof said he's lost his grandson, who turned 23 last week, and said today is likely the last time he will see him. "I'm just aching to hold him and hug him as I did when he was a tot," he said. He added: "The system which I worked in almost 60 years now and believe in seems to have worked as it should have worked."         Family members of Roof's nine victims also spoke. Nadine Collier, daughter of victim Ethel Lance, who was thrust into the spotlight after she told Dylann Roof she forgave him at his bond hearing less than 48 hours after the shooting, said today she still forgives him and now she is moving on. "Today I wanted to address the court. I wanted to say to Dylann Roof I’m the one that forgave you in the bond hearing, and I still do today," Collier said.   "He came here to start a battle -- but I win the war," Collier continued. "I wore white today to let everybody know the chapter in my life right now today is closed. I will not open that book again. And I just want to say have mercy on your soul." Melvin Graham, brother of victim Cynthia Hurd, was emotional as he spoke in court, saying he wanted to let Hurd speak for herself. Graham read an email that Hurd sent to their sister in 2013; Graham said Hurd sent the email when their sister was having a difficult time handling the death of their parents.   In the email, which Graham read aloud, Hurd said that Easter was her favorite holiday because it reminded her that death is not forever and they will have the chance to be reunited one day. Blondell Gadsden, sister of victim Myra Thompson, said to the court of Dylann Roof, "Even though we're at a point where death has been the sentence for him, my heart still goes out to him in hopes that he would repent to save himself from himself." "I can't think of anything worse that he could do at this point than to not accept Christ and try to make his days on this earth a little bit more peaceful," Gadsden added. "I come here today not to do anything more than to thank the court system and on behalf of my family say that we are pleased with everything that has been done." Dylann Roof, who was sentenced to death in January in his federal trial, today pleaded guilty to all state charges, including nine counts of murder and three counts of attempted murder, instead of going through a second trial. Dylann Roof's guilty plea in state court was in exchange for life in prison without the possibility of parole.   Ninth Circuit Solicitor Scarlett Wilson said the mission for the guilty plea was to get the "surest path to Dylann Roof's execution" in connection with the federal trial. Shares                  Charleston church shooter 'is not all bad,' grandfather says   3 dead in apparent murder-suicide at San Bernardino elementary school, police say   Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley resigns amid sex scandal   SEAL instructor will not face charges in death of trainee who drowned   McCain: Russia cooperated with Syria in chemical attack   Police: Gunman who killed Texas lawman killed himself   Airlines often oversell flights, end up bumping passengers   Trump to sell attack planes to Nigeria for Boko Haram fight   Palm Sunday bombings latest in string of attacks against Egypt's Christians   Carrier group heads to Sea of Japan amid N. Korea tensions   Le Pen criticized for denying French blame in WWII roundup   Julia, a Muppet with autism, makes first appearance on 'Sesame Street'   Author shares tips to fight rising health care costs   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Firefighters, police save birthday of boy hailed as hero in family's house fire   Newborn girl shares birthday with dad and great-grandfather   What exactly is US Syria policy? Big questions for allies   Brake lights stretch for miles after Atlanta bridge collapse   Israel shuts Egypt border after terror warning Passover eve   China bars wife of detained Taiwanese activist from visiting   Jewish family renews fight for Passover manuscript   Canada PM Trudeau visits Juno Beach, site of D-Day landings   Wells Fargo details sales scandal findings, seizing $75M in compensation from 2 former execs   Utah doctor convicted of killing wife in bathtub dies   Barclays CEO investigated for trying to unmask whistleblower   What to know about the Fox News and Bill O'Reilly controversies   Wendy Walsh says Bill O'Reilly 'became hostile' after she rebuffed his alleged sexual advances   Fox News, dogged by misconduct claims, faces new lawsuits   United CEO tells employees 'there are lessons we can learn' after man is dragged off flight   Officer appears to slam woman onto sidewalk in video   Attacks test Egypt's president who orders state of emergency   The Hulk, Cate Blanchett and more highlights from 'Thor: Ragnarok' trailer   Kimberly Williams-Paisley recalls her most difficult scene in 'Father of the Bride'

Families of the Charleston church shooting victims -- and the grandfather of the convicted killer -- spoke out in court today as Dylann Roof pleaded guilty to all state charges against him.

As Roof's grandfather Joe Roof, a longtime real estate lawyer in Columbia, South Carolina, addressed the court for the first time today, he said, "Dylann is not all bad."

His grandson, who is white, has already been convicted of hate crimes in a federal case and has been sentenced to death for the murders of nine black parishioners at the Emanuel AME Church in June 2015.

"We’re sorry," Joe Roof said, adding, "We have been distressed and just sick over what has happened to these families."

"My wife and I have them in our prayers every night, every meal," Joe Roof said.

"What happened here I will never understand," he added. "I will go to my grave not understanding."

Pool photo byGrace Beahm/The Post And Courier via AP

Joe Roof said he's lost his grandson, who turned 23 last week, and said today is likely the last time he will see him. "I'm just aching to hold him and hug him as I did when he was a tot," he said.

He added: "The system which I worked in almost 60 years now and believe in seems to have worked as it should have worked."

Family members of Roof's nine victims also spoke.

Nadine Collier, daughter of victim Ethel Lance, who was thrust into the spotlight after she told Dylann Roof she forgave him at his bond hearing less than 48 hours after the shooting, said today she still forgives him and now she is moving on.

"Today I wanted to address the court. I wanted to say to Dylann Roof I’m the one that forgave you in the bond hearing, and I still do today," Collier said.

Pool photo by Grace Beahm/The Post And Courier via AP

"He came here to start a battle -- but I win the war," Collier continued. "I wore white today to let everybody know the chapter in my life right now today is closed. I will not open that book again. And I just want to say have mercy on your soul."

Melvin Graham, brother of victim Cynthia Hurd, was emotional as he spoke in court, saying he wanted to let Hurd speak for herself. Graham read an email that Hurd sent to their sister in 2013; Graham said Hurd sent the email when their sister was having a difficult time handling the death of their parents.

Randall Hill/Reuters

In the email, which Graham read aloud, Hurd said that Easter was her favorite holiday because it reminded her that death is not forever and they will have the chance to be reunited one day.

Blondell Gadsden, sister of victim Myra Thompson, said to the court of Dylann Roof, "Even though we're at a point where death has been the sentence for him, my heart still goes out to him in hopes that he would repent to save himself from himself."

"I can't think of anything worse that he could do at this point than to not accept Christ and try to make his days on this earth a little bit more peaceful," Gadsden added. "I come here today not to do anything more than to thank the court system and on behalf of my family say that we are pleased with everything that has been done."

Dylann Roof, who was sentenced to death in January in his federal trial, today pleaded guilty to all state charges, including nine counts of murder and three counts of attempted murder, instead of going through a second trial.

Dylann Roof's guilty plea in state court was in exchange for life in prison without the possibility of parole.

Pool photo by Grace Beahm/The Post And Courier via AP

Ninth Circuit Solicitor Scarlett Wilson said the mission for the guilty plea was to get the "surest path to Dylann Roof's execution" in connection with the federal trial.