Civil service chief dragged into row over Libor
Civil service chief dragged into row over Libor

ritain's most senior civil servant has been dragged into a row over setting the Libor as it emerged the Bank of England and former  Labour government may have been involved in its manipulation. Sir Jeremy Heywood, who is now the head of civil  service and held senior positions in the last Labour government, is understood to have attended meetings where setting the rate was discussed. Alistair Darling, who served as chancellor, is also likely to have attended some of the meetings although there is no suggestion of any wrongdoing. Libor – the London Interbank Offered Rate – is the rate at which banks lend to each other, and is used to set millions of pounds’ worth of financial deals including car loans and mortgages. It is also used in complex overseas financial transactions. Parliament is coming under pressure to investigate claims that the rate’s manipulation may have been sanctioned, which could lead to minutes of the private meetings being revealed. n Monday night, the BBC’s Panorama said it had uncovered a 2008 recording of a conversation between a senior Barclays’ manager and its Libor submitter that suggested that the Bank of England and the government was exerting pressure on lenders to “low-ball” the rate. Mark Dearlove, a senior manager at Barclays, reportedly told the submitter: “The bottom line is you’re going to absolutely hate this ... but we’ve had some very serious pressure from the UK Government and the Bank of England about pushing our Libors lower.” At the time, the Bank of England would have wanted to keep rates low to ensure banks kept lending to one another during the credit crisis. hris Philp, the MP for Croydon South, who sits on the Treasury select committee, said he believed that MPs should launch an inquiry into the claims and would raise the issue with his colleagues next week. It is understood that the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) is still investigating allegations of Libor rigging dating to the period 2005 to 2008. Mr Philp said the recordings raised questions about evidence given by  former Barclays boss Bob Diamond, and Paul Tucker, who served as the central bank’s deputy governor, to the Treasury Select Committee in 2012,  regarding a call between them in 2008. r Diamond maintained that an email note based on that conversation, which discussed how Barclays had consistently been near the top end of Libor pricing, was not an instruction to artificially lower Barclays’ reported rate. Mr Tucker said in 2012 that no government minister had asked him to “lean on” Barclays over its inter-bank lending rates. Mr Philp said that the tape recording appeared to indicate that Barclays were “pressured or even instructed to lower their Libor rate”. He said: “My view is that the Treasury committee should be urgently investigating this, because the committee was potentially misled.” Mr Diamond told the BBC: “I never misled parliament and… I stand by everything I have said previously.” Mr Tucker did not respond to questions. Lord Darling yesterday declined to comment but has previously denied that he knew anything about the lowering of Libors while in office. He said: “I would find it absolutely astonishing that the bank would ever make such a suggestion, and equally I can think of no circumstances that anyone, certainly in a department which I was  responsible for – the Treasury – would ever suggest wrongdoing like this.” ir Jeremy served as a senior aide to chancellors Norman Lamont, Kenneth Clarke and Gordon Brown, and then to Tony Blair, before quitting for a job in investment banking. He was drafted back into government by Mr Brown and rose to become Downing Street chief of staff and, in 2012, Cabinet Secretary. In 2014 he became Head of the Home Civil Service. Last night a spokesman for the Cabinet Office declined to comment on Sir Jeremy’s behalf. Bank of England spokesman said: “Libor and other global benchmarks were not regulated in the UK or elsewhere during the period in question. “Nonetheless, the Bank of England has been assisting the SFO’s criminal investigations into Libor manipulation by employees at commercial banks and brokers by providing, on a voluntary basis, documents and records  requested by the SFO.” The spokesman said that, while the Bank was “committed” to publishing material related to the investigation when appropriate, it was “not in a position” to do so until the SFO laid its investigation to rest.  Barclays declined to comment.

Britain's most senior civil servant has been dragged into a row over setting the Libor as it emerged the Bank of England and former Labour government may have been involved in its manipulation.

Sir Jeremy Heywood, who is now the head of civil service and held senior positions in the last Labour government, is understood to have attended meetings where setting the rate was discussed.

Alistair Darling, who served as chancellor, is also likely to have attended some of the meetings although there is no suggestion of any wrongdoing.

Libor – the London Interbank Offered Rate – is the rate at which banks lend to each other, and is used to set millions of pounds’ worth of financial deals including car loans and mortgages.

It is also used in complex overseas financial transactions. Parliament is coming under pressure to investigate claims that the rate’s manipulation may have been sanctioned, which could lead to minutes of the private meetings being revealed.