Blaze devastates Grand-Synthe migrant camp outside Dunkirk

Agence France-Presse in Grande-Synthe   A large fire has broken out in the Grande-Synthe migrant camp outside the northern French city of Dunkirk, reducing it to “a heap of ashes”, according to the region’s prefect. Firefighters said at least ten people had been injured on Monday night in the blaze at the camp, which was home to about 1,500 people at the end of March, living in closely packed wooden huts. “There is nothing left but a heap of ashes,” said Michel Lalande, prefect of France’s Nord region, at the site. “It will be impossible to put the huts back where they were before.” Lalande said the fire had started after a fight at the camp between Afghans and Kurds on Monday afternoon that had left six injured with knife wounds. A massive plume of smoke rose from the camp into the night sky and was visible from several kilometres away. French officials had said in mid-March that security forces were planning to start dismantling the camp following clashes at the site. The population of the Grande-Synthe camp has swelled since the destruction last October of the Calais refugee camp, about 25 miles (40km) away. For more than a decade, France’s northern coast has been a focal point for refugees and migrants trying to reach the UK, with French authorities repeatedly tearing down camps in the region. There have been several violent incidents at the Grande-Synthe camp, with police intervening last month after five men were injured in a fight. Another man was stabbed in November.  Migration   France   Europe

At least 10 people injured as prefect of French region says fire has left ‘nothing but a heap of ashes’

A large fire has broken out in the Grande-Synthe migrant camp outside the northern French city of Dunkirk, reducing it to “a heap of ashes”, according to the region’s prefect.



Firefighters said at least ten people had been injured on Monday night in the blaze at the camp, which was home to about 1,500 people at the end of March, living in closely packed wooden huts.

“There is nothing left but a heap of ashes,” said Michel Lalande, prefect of France’s Nord region, at the site. “It will be impossible to put the huts back where they were before.”

Lalande said the fire had started after a fight at the camp between Afghans and Kurds on Monday afternoon that had left six injured with knife wounds.

A massive plume of smoke rose from the camp into the night sky and was visible from several kilometres away.

French officials had said in mid-March that security forces were planning to start dismantling the camp following clashes at the site.

The population of the Grande-Synthe camp has swelled since the destruction last October of the Calais refugee camp, about 25 miles (40km) away.

For more than a decade, France’s northern coast has been a focal point for refugees and migrants trying to reach the UK, with French authorities repeatedly tearing down camps in the region.

There have been several violent incidents at the Grande-Synthe camp, with police intervening last month after five men were injured in a fight. Another man was stabbed in November.