'New York Times' jumps the gun, announces Pulitzer wins way before announcement
'New York Times' jumps the gun, announces Pulitzer wins way before announcement
The prestigious Pulitzer Prizes were announced Monday afternoon for accomplishments in journalism, but long before the winners were revealed the was acting like it had already won. SEE ALSO: Here's why Indians are trolling The New York Times Near the front of Monday's paper it included a small segment with details about a Facebook Live interview with its 2017 winners, as called out. The post from the paper said, "How does it feel to get a Pulitzer Prize? Ask The Times's recently announced 2017 winners yourself..." It went on to plug the Live session with the winners. Whoops! The New York Times mistakenly announced its Pulitzer Prize win: https://t.co/eErQmGgpf0  pic.twitter.com/Qz9Y05WmES — Ben Mullin (@BenMullin) April 10, 2017 The told it was "a mistake, combined with a little bit of hopeful thinking." The paper went on to win as a team in the international reporting category, while writer C.J. Chivers scooped one for feature writing. The paper also picked up an accolade for breaking news photography. As the Associated Press reports , news organizations often get wind of their wins before they are officially announced. WATCH: This chocolate museum would even make Willy Wonka jealous

The prestigious Pulitzer Prizes were announced Monday afternoon for accomplishments in journalism, but long before the winners were revealed the New York Times was acting like it had already won.

Near the front of Monday's paper it included a small segment with details about a Facebook Live interview with its 2017 winners, as Poynter called out.

The post from the paper said, "How does it feel to get a Pulitzer Prize? Ask The Times's recently announced 2017 winners yourself..." It went on to plug the Live session with the winners.

Whoops! The New York Times mistakenly announced its Pulitzer Prize win:https://t.co/eErQmGgpf0 pic.twitter.com/Qz9Y05WmES — Ben Mullin (@BenMullin) April 10, 2017

The NYT told Poynter it was "a mistake, combined with a little bit of hopeful thinking."

The paper went on to win as a team in the international reporting category, while writer C.J. Chivers scooped one for feature writing. The paper also picked up an accolade for breaking news photography.

As the Associated Press reports, news organizations often get wind of their wins before they are officially announced.