Adani: Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull meets with chairman, reiterates support for mine



Adani: Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull meets with chairman, reiterates support for mine

Updated

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is understood to have told the Adani group chairman the issue of Native Title in Australia will soon be resolved.

Key points: A Senate inquiry threw into question more than 100 mining and pastoral agreements with Native Title holders — including one covering the Carmichael project

PM Turnbull met with Guatam Adani and senior executives of the Adani mine

Adani is seeking a $900-million Federal Government loan for a railway link to the port; Mr Turnbull said the loan is outside his control

Mr Turnbull met privately with Gautam Adani and senior Adani executives for approximately half an hour last night in New Delhi, during his three-day state visit to India.

The meeting comes as Mr Adani prepares to make a final investment decision on the controversial $21-billion Carmichael mine in Queensland's Galilee basin — which, if built, would be Australia's biggest.

A Senate inquiry is examining the fallout from a recent federal court ruling that threw into question more than 100 mining and pastoral agreements with Native Title holders, including one covering Adani's Carmichael project.

The Federal Government is trying to pass legislation which would reverse that court ruling.

No promise of loan for Abbot Point rail link

Adani is also seeking a $900-million Federal Government loan for a railway linking the mine to port, from the Government's Northern Australia Infrastructure Fund.

It is understood Mr Adani acknowledged to Mr Turnbull that the loan needed independent approval.

Earlier yesterday Mr Turnbull said while he was "looking forward" to meeting Mr Adani, the loan was outside his control.

"That's an independent process, it has to go through that process — that independent assessment by the board," Mr Turnbull said.

Mr Turnbull also said he supported exporting Australian coal and other resources to India to assist with India's "enormous need" for more electricity.

"We play a big role as a coal exporter of course and [we are] now in a position to export uranium," Mr Turnbull said.

Environmental activists have threatened to disrupt construction if the mine goes ahead, arguing the emissions from burning coal will drive climate change and threaten Queensland's Great Barrier Reef.

Trade talks to be resuscitated

Separately, following a lengthy one-on-one meeting with India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi yesterday, last night Mr Turnbull re-iterated the two leaders' decision to work out what stood between them on trade.

"That is a very important prime-ministerial commitment to getting on with it and dealing with it and identifying where the parties are close, where they're apart," Mr Turnbull said.

"The process needed some energy, and it has been re-energised today."

Former prime minister Tony Abbott visited India in 2014 and set the ambitious target of signing a free trade agreement by 2015, but since then there has been little, if any, progress.

At a speech on India-Australia education links last night, Mr Turnbull praised Mr Modi for agreeing that progress had been "too slow" and that the talks should be resuscitated.

"We have agreed to direct our chief negotiators to meet as soon as possible," Mr Turnbull said, describing the development as an "important prime-ministerial commitment to getting on with it".

The Prime Minister's comments last night reflect a change of attitude from his criticism of Indian protectionism ahead of his meeting with Mr Modi.

"It will take some time," Mr Turnbull warned when asked about progress on the deal.

"India has a long tradition of protection, particularly for agriculture."

Neither side has committed to a timeframe for concluding a deal.

Topics: government-and-politics, federal-government, turnbull-malcolm, business-economics-and-finance, mining-environmental-issues, mining-industry, india, australia, qld

First posted