Krauthammer: Syria Strike 'Total Contradiction to Bannonism'

Krauthammer: Syria Strike 'Total Contradiction to Bannonism' // // Charles Krauthammer called President Trump's 59-missile strike on a Syrian airbase "a total contradiction to Bannonism." Krauthammer said White House adviser Stephen Bannon trumpeted a theme of "America First," in that he would not support global actions that weren't directly in America's interest. He said that by choosing to strike back at Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Trump showed that he is not against taking decisive action for purely humanitarian interests. "The strike on Syria was a total contradiction to Bannonism," he said, adding that 'Bannonism' is "in decline" now. Krauthammer also expressed criticism at administration leaks showing Bannon appearing to be at odds with fellow adviser Jared Kushner. Kushner is the husband of first daughter Ivanka Trump.

Charles Krauthammer called President Trump's 59-missile strike on a Syrian airbase "a total contradiction to Bannonism."

Krauthammer said White House adviser Stephen Bannon trumpeted a theme of "America First," in that he would not support global actions that weren't directly in America's interest.

WATCH: 'Radical Left' Jeers GOP Rep During Town Hall

House Dem Wants to Ban ICE Agents From Identifying as Police

WATCH: Neil Gorsuch Takes Oath, Sworn-In as Supreme Court Justice

He said that by choosing to strike back at Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, Trump showed that he is not against taking decisive action for purely humanitarian interests.

"The strike on Syria was a total contradiction to Bannonism," he said, adding that 'Bannonism' is "in decline" now.

Krauthammer also expressed criticism at administration leaks showing Bannon appearing to be at odds with fellow adviser Jared Kushner.

Kushner is the husband of first daughter Ivanka Trump.

WATCH: FL Officers in Ski Masks Send Message to Drug Dealers

Peters: Retaliation for Syria Strikes Most Likely to Come From Iran