United CEO's response to passenger being dragged from plane made the situation even worse
United CEO's response to passenger being dragged from plane made the situation even worse
United Airlines ' CEO has responded to viral footage of a doctor being dragged from one of its planes. person who says they were on the flight even after offering $800 United CEO response to United Express Flight 3411. pic.twitter.com/rF5gNIvVd0  Initial reactions to Munoz's response were negative. Using "re-accomodate" to describe this abhorrent event is straight out of a dystopian future sci-fi nightmare. The CEO should resign. https://t.co/0hfNR2Q0bm    @united I think your idea of "re-accomodate" paying passengers and the idea of the passengers themselves differ. Just a tad. Meanwhile, the head of Altimeter Capital, which is one of United's largest shareholders, also weighed in on the event. Brad Gerstner, the founder of the hedge fund Altimeter Capital, said he was disgusted by the treatment of the passenger. I am disgusted how local police treated a United passenger last night in Chicago. I have no doubt the company shares these views. $ual   NOW WATCH: Robert Shiller on what a rate hike will do to asset prices and who Trump shouldn't put in charge of the fed Buick's new Regal is primed to take on Audi and BMW United is trying to make flying less of a chore after weathering changes that customers hated Tesla is now bigger than Ford despite selling a fraction of the cars — and a threat is looming over the future

United Airlines' CEO has responded to viral footage of a doctor being dragged from one of its planes.

According to a person who says they were on the flight, the airline needed room on the overbooked aircraft to reposition crew for another flight. But when it couldn't find enough volunteers, even after offering $800, the airline selected the man and several other passengers to deplane.

But the man allegedly refused and was dragged off by police.

According to a statement by the Chicago Police, the aviation officers attempted to carry the man off when he fell and hit his head on an armrest. He was then taken to Lutheran General Hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

"I apologize for having to re-accommodate those customers," CEO Oscar Munoz said in a statement posted to the airlines' Twitter account.

Some people are now threatening to boycott the airline, using the hashtag #BoycottUnited.

Here's the statement:

United CEO response to United Express Flight 3411. pic.twitter.com/rF5gNIvVd0 — United (@united) April 10, 2017

Initial reactions to Munoz's response were negative.

Using "re-accomodate" to describe this abhorrent event is straight out of a dystopian future sci-fi nightmare. The CEO should resign. https://t.co/0hfNR2Q0bm — Eric Butler (@codebutler) April 10, 2017

@united I think your idea of "re-accomodate" paying passengers and the idea of the passengers themselves differ. Just a tad. — karen munro (@BaileyPittipat) April 10, 2017

Meanwhile, the head of Altimeter Capital, which is one of United's largest shareholders, also weighed in on the event.

Brad Gerstner, the founder of the hedge fund Altimeter Capital, said he was disgusted by the treatment of the passenger.

I am disgusted how local police treated a United passenger last night in Chicago. I have no doubt the company shares these views. $ual — Brad Gerstner (@altcap) April 10, 2017

NOW WATCH: Robert Shiller on what a rate hike will do to asset prices and who Trump shouldn't put in charge of the fed





More From Business Insider

