News Anchor Learns About Her Husband's Death During Live Broadcast
News Anchor Learns About Her Husband's Death During Live Broadcast
A news anchor for India's IBC24 channel was able to keep her composure after learning about her husband’s death on live TV. According to the , 28-year-old Supreet Kaur was reporting on a fatal car crash that occurred in Chhattisgarh state on Saturday. Her colleague was at the scene of the tragedy and provided several details over the phone, including the make of the vehicles involved in the accident. Though Kaur’s was able to keep her poise on air, she was aware that one of the victims was her husband, Harshad Kawade, as he was traveling in the area at the time of the collision and was driving one of the cars described. Kaur completed the hour-long broadcast, and reportedly broke down after her husband’s death was confirmed. The two had been married for 18 years. “She got a sense that it was her husband’s vehicle. She read the bulletin and only when she came out of the studio, she started calling her relatives,” a senior editor told the . When asked if other staff members were aware that one of the victims was Kaur’s husband, the editor confirmed that his identity and relationship to Kaur was known; however, he said no one told the reporter because they “did not have the courage.” Following the broadcast, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh tweeted a message to Kaur, praising her bravery and professionalism. Salute Supreet's strength in dealing with her husband's demise with extraordinary bravery & professionalism.May departed soul rest in peace You can watch the video above.

A news anchor for India's IBC24 channel was able to keep her composure after learning about her husband’s death on live TV.

According to the Hindustan Times, 28-year-old Supreet Kaur was reporting on a fatal car crash that occurred in Chhattisgarh state on Saturday. Her colleague was at the scene of the tragedy and provided several details over the phone, including the make of the vehicles involved in the accident. Though Kaur’s was able to keep her poise on air, she was aware that one of the victims was her husband, Harshad Kawade, as he was traveling in the area at the time of the collision and was driving one of the cars described.

Kaur completed the hour-long broadcast, and reportedly broke down after her husband’s death was confirmed. The two had been married for 18 years.

“She got a sense that it was her husband’s vehicle. She read the bulletin and only when she came out of the studio, she started calling her relatives,” a senior editor told the Hindustan Times. When asked if other staff members were aware that one of the victims was Kaur’s husband, the editor confirmed that his identity and relationship to Kaur was known; however, he said no one told the reporter because they “did not have the courage.”

Following the broadcast, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh tweeted a message to Kaur, praising her bravery and professionalism.

Salute Supreet's strength in dealing with her husband's demise with extraordinary bravery & professionalism.May departed soul rest in peace — Dr Raman Singh (@drramansingh) April 8, 2017

You can watch the video above.