Warship review – one of our ships keeps breaking down

he final of University Challenge is always a bittersweet affair. The pleasure of having made it to the end of a 36-week marathon in which you have been made to feel increasingly stupid during the latter stages as the questions ratchet up from the hard to the almost impossible, offset by the sadness of knowing there will be a half-hour hole in your Monday evenings for the next 16 weeks. But thankfully the TV schedulers have indulged this desire for The Remembrance of Things Past by putting on two new shows which feel exactly like TV programmes you have watched before. (Channel 4) is just like every other documentary about the navy you have ever seen. All the main characters come straight from central casting. The rather grumpy second in command who talks in cliches of “using skill sets” and “doing bad stuff to bad people”; the hardened old-timer who saw service in the Falklands; the posh helicopter pilot who was at Sandhurst with Prince William; and the chirpy 17-year-old woman on her first deployment whose main role on board ship seemed to be the comic ingenue. Over the years, television has done submarines (still just about submerged) and aircraft carriers (long since decommissioned) and we are now on to HMS Ocean, the navy’s current flagship, which was on its way to the Persian Gulf with a cargo of helicopters and marines. Things didn’t get off to the best of starts: within an hour of leaving Devonport, HMS Ocean had ground to a halt as one of her engines had packed up. After checking through the ship’s manuals, the engineer in charge suggested switching the engines off and then restarting them. Success. Though not for long. Somewhere in the Bay of Biscay the engines’ cooling system failed and the shop ground to a halt again as someone was sent to tie a clamp round the leaking pipe. But that wasn’t the end of it. On day 12, the engines suffered an even more catastrophic failure as one of the exhaust valves in the engine cylinder jammed, leading to a 35-hour holdup as a team of men worked round the clock to try to fix it. At which point, I began to wonder if the whole programme hadn’t been dreamed up by the navy’s PR department. The armed forces are facing large budget cuts in the next couple of years and, with the cost of much equipment also going up by 20% due to the fall in the value of the pound, the navy is feeling the squeeze. So what better than a film in which every other person said, “Ocean is more than 20 years old, so these breakdowns are to be expected,” to shame the Ministry of Defence into handing over more cash. It’s one thing to break down when on exercise; it’s another to become a sitting duck in a combat zone. My father served in the navy during the second world war and used to tell me that war entails long, long periods of boredom interspersed with a few intense moments of excitement and terror. It was a balance that Warship managed – perhaps not intentionally – to capture perfectly. Still, it had a great deal more to offer than (ITV1) which promised an insight into the stresses of policing coastal and rural areas as well as inner-city crime. Only the film-makers either couldn’t find any inner-city crime – or decided it wasn’t photogenic enough, and chose to concentrate on as many photogenic areas as they could find. Imagine An Island Parish only with kindly cops rather than kindly vicars and you’ll get the idea. We started in the Scilly Isles, where half a dozen people were getting excited about the possibility of a five-minute royal visit. “Who will it be?” wondered the valium-fuelled voice-over – whose scriptwriter clearly hadn’t bothered to watch the opening credits in which Prince William and Kate had been spotted chatting awkwardly to a small group. Otherwise the main excitements centred around a retired lieutenant-colonel who had only just remembered he had brought a grenade home with him in the 1950s; a caravan that upended itself on a main road; and a possible sighting of the Beast of Exmoor. As was right and proper for a documentary whose sole purpose was that nothing should happen, no evidence of the Beast was uncovered. And ... relax. It’s only a few months until the new series of University Challenge.  Culture   Last night's TV   reviews

The final of University Challenge is always a bittersweet affair. The pleasure of having made it to the end of a 36-week marathon in which you have been made to feel increasingly stupid during the latter stages as the questions ratchet up from the hard to the almost impossible, offset by the sadness of knowing there will be a half-hour hole in your Monday evenings for the next 16 weeks. But thankfully the TV schedulers have indulged this desire for The Remembrance of Things Past by putting on two new shows which feel exactly like TV programmes you have watched before.

Warship (Channel 4) is just like every other documentary about the navy you have ever seen. All the main characters come straight from central casting. The rather grumpy second in command who talks in cliches of “using skill sets” and “doing bad stuff to bad people”; the hardened old-timer who saw service in the Falklands; the posh helicopter pilot who was at Sandhurst with Prince William; and the chirpy 17-year-old woman on her first deployment whose main role on board ship seemed to be the comic ingenue.

Over the years, television has done submarines (still just about submerged) and aircraft carriers (long since decommissioned) and we are now on to HMS Ocean, the navy’s current flagship, which was on its way to the Persian Gulf with a cargo of helicopters and marines.

Things didn’t get off to the best of starts: within an hour of leaving Devonport, HMS Ocean had ground to a halt as one of her engines had packed up. After checking through the ship’s manuals, the engineer in charge suggested switching the engines off and then restarting them. Success.

Though not for long. Somewhere in the Bay of Biscay the engines’ cooling system failed and the shop ground to a halt again as someone was sent to tie a clamp round the leaking pipe. But that wasn’t the end of it. On day 12, the engines suffered an even more catastrophic failure as one of the exhaust valves in the engine cylinder jammed, leading to a 35-hour holdup as a team of men worked round the clock to try to fix it.

At which point, I began to wonder if the whole programme hadn’t been dreamed up by the navy’s PR department.

The armed forces are facing large budget cuts in the next couple of years and, with the cost of much equipment also going up by 20% due to the fall in the value of the pound, the navy is feeling the squeeze.

So what better than a film in which every other person said, “Ocean is more than 20 years old, so these breakdowns are to be expected,” to shame the Ministry of Defence into handing over more cash. It’s one thing to break down when on exercise; it’s another to become a sitting duck in a combat zone.

My father served in the navy during the second world war and used to tell me that war entails long, long periods of boredom interspersed with a few intense moments of excitement and terror. It was a balance that Warship managed – perhaps not intentionally – to capture perfectly.

Still, it had a great deal more to offer than Devon and Cornwall Cops (ITV1) which promised an insight into the stresses of policing coastal and rural areas as well as inner-city crime. Only the film-makers either couldn’t find any inner-city crime – or decided it wasn’t photogenic enough, and chose to concentrate on as many photogenic areas as they could find. Imagine An Island Parish only with kindly cops rather than kindly vicars and you’ll get the idea.

We started in the Scilly Isles, where half a dozen people were getting excited about the possibility of a five-minute royal visit. “Who will it be?” wondered the valium-fuelled voice-over – whose scriptwriter clearly hadn’t bothered to watch the opening credits in which Prince William and Kate had been spotted chatting awkwardly to a small group.

Otherwise the main excitements centred around a retired lieutenant-colonel who had only just remembered he had brought a grenade home with him in the 1950s; a caravan that upended itself on a main road; and a possible sighting of the Beast of Exmoor.

As was right and proper for a documentary whose sole purpose was that nothing should happen, no evidence of the Beast was uncovered. And ... relax. It’s only a few months until the new series of University Challenge.