Joy Villa: 'I Lost Friends' After Wearing Pro-Trump Gown to Grammys

Joy Villa: 'I Lost Friends' After Wearing Pro-Trump Gown to Grammys // // Two months after turning heads at the Grammys with a pro-Trump gown, singer Joy Villa returned to "Fox & Friends" to discuss an interesting social experiment she conducted in New York City. Villa, who wore a blue "Make America Great Again" dress to the Feb. 12 awards show, recently walked around the Big Apple in a flag-themed, pro-Trump outfit. She said the reactions of people on the street were about 50-50 - better than she expected - and that she didn't need security. As for her now-famous dress, which caused Villa's album to skyrocket on the iTunes and Amazon charts, she said she lost friends for making her political views known. Thank you so much for having me back on, I adore @foxandfriends  #maga  #joyvilla  https://t.co/cKoXeX9bHz — Joy Villa (@Joy_Villa) April 10, 2017 "When I voted for him, I said this is is my president and I'm gonna stand by him," said Villa, explaining that she was trying to do something positive. She revealed that after she left the red carpet, a producer asked whether it was all a stunt and if she really supports Trump. Since that time, Villa said she's noticed media members ignoring her at red carpet events. Watch the interview above and Villa's walk around Manhattan below.

WATCH: People Ignore Woman With Her Head Stuck in NYC Subway Doors

Stephen Baldwin: Hollywood Trump-Bashing Shows 'Disconnect' From Reality

Two months after turning heads at the Grammys with a pro-Trump gown, singer Joy Villa returned to "Fox & Friends" to discuss an interesting social experiment she conducted in New York City.

Villa, who wore a blue "Make America Great Again" dress to the Feb. 12 awards show, recently walked around the Big Apple in a flag-themed, pro-Trump outfit.

She said the reactions of people on the street were about 50-50 - better than she expected - and that she didn't need security.

As for her now-famous dress, which caused Villa's album to skyrocket on the iTunes and Amazon charts, she said she lost friends for making her political views known.

WATCH: Harvard Students Insist Pres. Trump Is More Dangerous Than ISIS

Judge Jeanine on Syria: The So-Called Trump-Putin 'Bromance' Is Over

"When I voted for him, I said this is is my president and I'm gonna stand by him," said Villa, explaining that she was trying to do something positive.

She revealed that after she left the red carpet, a producer asked whether it was all a stunt and if she really supports Trump.

Since that time, Villa said she's noticed media members ignoring her at red carpet events.

Watch the interview above and Villa's walk around Manhattan below.

'The View' Co-Host Says Syria Airstrikes Show Trump Is a 'Dictator'

Judge Jeanine Challenges GOP: 'Put Your Big Boy Pants On,' Get Behind Trump

Syrian Refugee Heaps Praise on Trump After Airstrike