17 Things Couples In Open Relationships Need You To Know
17 Things Couples In Open Relationships Need You To Know
We asked couples in open relationships what they would like to say about their relationships, and we picked the best answers to share in this post. We have left the couples themselves anonymous.                                   Couples in open relationships do not necessarily want to convert you or for you to think that your monogamous relationship is "old-fashioned."                                   It involves bigger issues: it's a lifestyle, a choice about the philosophy of how you want to live with your partner.                                   You don't have to tell me if you agree with it or not. It's OK.                                   There is only what's best for you. Monogamous love is not any "truer" than free love.                                   Relationships can take on thousands of different forms, but what matters most is that you talk with one another and work out what the details are.                                   It's much more than that — it's about a dating or married couple freeing themselves from the idea of possession, and feeling happy that the person you love is free.                                   Some open couples are actually pretty boring.                                   The difference is how you deal with the jealousy. You need to assess how selfish your feelings are and rethink how you will react, but it's not off limits to approach your boyfriend or girlfriend and admit: "You're making me jealous."                                   Each couple has a different idea of what it considers "betrayal." In order to betray your partner, all you have to do is be dishonest.                                   A lot of people say they'd like to open the relationship, but they can't because they are jealous. If you want to, you can do it. Nobody was born being ready for an open relationship. It's a process.                                   Respect is always important, and the interest has to be mutual.                                   Both people have to want to open up the relationship. You shouldn't open up your relationship just to satisfy your partner or for fear of losing him or her.                                   Non-monogamous couples can have children, start families, etc. Nothing changes.                                   The decision is mutual, well thought out, and always based on respect. If either person feels uneasy or uncomfortable, they have to stop and rethink the arrangement.                                   The couple values the way they interact with one another, how they get along, and how they love one another. That's what's important. Because the rules can always change.                                   It's a way to make everything even better. It's not that they don't have enough love — they have too much!                                   Thinking about the safety of yourself and your partner when you have sex, whether they are there or not, is essential in an open relationship.

Cyano66 / Getty Images

The difference is how you deal with the jealousy. You need to assess how selfish your feelings are and rethink how you will react, but it's not off limits to approach your boyfriend or girlfriend and admit: "You're making me jealous."