Asia's Best Universities In 2017
Asia's Best Universities In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A well-known school in Singapore topped this year's list of best Asian universities. (image credit: Shutterstock) The beginnings of a great future and healthy career often come in the form of a solid education. That’s why, from time to time, we look into recent ratings of universities and colleges and one of the newest analyses comes focused on institutions based in Asia. Compiled by Times Higher Education (THE) a U.K.-based publication focused on education this roster rates the top colleges and universities as a subsection of THE’s annual evaluation of schools around the world. The report covers the top 300 institutions from 24 countries, but if you’d like to peruse the top-10, check out our slideshow below. Asia’s 10 Best Universities In 2017 Coming out on top in this year’s list is the National University of Singapore, as it did last year. That school ranks #1 in Asia but also 24th overall when stacked up against institutions from across the globe in THE’s most recent report. National University of Singapore has a student body of more than 31,000, which has equal numbers men and women students.  About 32% of the student body is international students and the university has its 17 schools across three campus locations in Singapore. In second place this year, for the second year in a row, is Peking University, based in Beijing, China. When compared to other schools throughout the world, Peking is ranked 29th overall, and ranks 21 in terms of educational reputation, according to THE reports . Enrollment is nearly 43,000 full time students and those prospective students must score highly in order to be considered. Peking University is a member of the C9 League in China, which THE explains is similar to the Ivy League group of schools in the United States — older institutions with great reputations. In third place we find Chinese school based in Beijing — Tsinghua University; which jumps up from fifth place last year. The 41,537 full time students enjoy a 14 to one student-teacher ratio, but female students are outnumbered by males 68 to 32. When pitted against other schools in the world, Tsinghua University ranks 35th overall. When we look at the entire roster of 300 ranked schools, Japan is the nation that comes away with the price for the most schools ranked, followed by China with 54 and India with 33. In the top-20, China is represented by six universities, South Korea and Hong Kong both have five, and Japan and Singapore have two apiece. “The clear trends, in the fifth year of this annual list, are the continuing strength of China, the rise of India and the emergence of several potential future stars in higher education,” said Phil Baty, the editor of the Times Higher Education rankings, as part of the study’s release. “While Japan is the continent’s leading university nation the first time in three years that it is the sole bearer of this title the majority of its universities have declined. In contrast, several of China’s leading universities have risen up the ranks, including Tsinghua, Shanghai Jiao Tong and Tongji.” In explaining its methodology, THE says the Asia University Rankings use the same 13 calibrated performance indicators as it does for its global rankings but the weightings are specially recalibrated to reflect the priorities of Asian institutions. More methodology information is available at the organization’s website . Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

The beginnings of a great future and healthy career often come in the form of a solid education. That’s why, from time to time, we look into recent ratings of universities and colleges and one of the newest analyses comes focused on institutions based in Asia.

Compiled by Times Higher Education (THE) — a U.K.-based publication focused on education — this roster rates the top colleges and universities as a subsection of THE’s annual evaluation of schools around the world. The report covers the top 300 institutions from 24 countries, but if you’d like to peruse the top-10, check out our slideshow below.

Coming out on top in this year’s list is the National University of Singapore, as it did last year. That school ranks #1 in Asia but also 24th overall when stacked up against institutions from across the globe in THE’s most recent report. National University of Singapore has a student body of more than 31,000, which has equal numbers men and women students. About 32% of the student body is international students and the university has its 17 schools across three campus locations in Singapore.

In second place this year, for the second year in a row, is Peking University, based in Beijing, China. When compared to other schools throughout the world, Peking is ranked 29th overall, and ranks 21 in terms of educational reputation, according to THE reports. Enrollment is nearly 43,000 full time students and those prospective students must score highly in order to be considered. Peking University is a member of the C9 League in China, which THE explains is similar to the Ivy League group of schools in the United States — older institutions with great reputations.

In third place we find Chinese school based in Beijing — Tsinghua University; which jumps up from fifth place last year. The 41,537 full time students enjoy a 14 to one student-teacher ratio, but female students are outnumbered by males 68 to 32. When pitted against other schools in the world, Tsinghua University ranks 35th overall.

When we look at the entire roster of 300 ranked schools, Japan is the nation that comes away with the price for the most schools ranked, followed by China with 54 and India with 33. In the top-20, China is represented by six universities, South Korea and Hong Kong both have five, and Japan and Singapore have two apiece.

“The clear trends, in the fifth year of this annual list, are the continuing strength of China, the rise of India and the emergence of several potential future stars in higher education,” said Phil Baty, the editor of the Times Higher Education rankings, as part of the study’s release. “While Japan is the continent’s leading university nation — the first time in three years that it is the sole bearer of this title — the majority of its universities have declined. In contrast, several of China’s leading universities have risen up the ranks, including Tsinghua, Shanghai Jiao Tong and Tongji.”

In explaining its methodology, THE says the Asia University Rankings use the same 13 calibrated performance indicators as it does for its global rankings but the weightings are specially recalibrated to reflect the priorities of Asian institutions. More methodology information is available at the organization’s website.

Follow me on Twitter @KarstenStrauss

Follow me on LinkedIn