This Photo Of Harbhajan Singh's Toddler Bonding With Jonty Rhodes' Daughter Is Just Too Cute!
This Photo Of Harbhajan Singh's Toddler Bonding With Jonty Rhodes' Daughter Is Just Too Cute!
This Photo Of Harbhajan Singh's Toddler Bonding With Jonty Rhodes' Daughter Is Just Too Cute! Harbhajan Singh and Jonty Rhodes know each other for quite sometime now. In fact, they're both in good touch as Rhodes is Bhajji's IPL team Mumbai Indians' fielding coach. Now it's time for their daughters to bond. Both India and Hinaya met each other over breakfast at a hotel where the Mumbai Indians squad was putting up. Going by the photo that Bhajji posted on his Instagram handle, both the munchkins had a great time in each other's company. Not to forget that the photo has an overdose of cuteness. When baby 👶 Hinaya met baby India Rhodes at the breakfast this morning ❤❤❤❤❤ @jontyrhodes8 #ipldiaries #bondingsession A post shared by Harbhajan Turbanator Singh (@harbhajan3) on Apr 8, 2017 at 4:51am PDT   Mumbai Indians next face Royal Challengers Bangalore in their next encounter on Friday. It also marks the return of Virat Kohli to cricket. Bhajji didn't play in the first IPL match of the Mumbai Indians. He last played for India in the T20I World Cup 2016. He's still waiting for an India comeback, which doesn't really seem on the cards.

Harbhajan Singh and Jonty Rhodes know each other for quite sometime now. In fact, they're both in good touch as Rhodes is Bhajji's IPL team Mumbai Indians' fielding coach.

Now it's time for their daughters to bond. Both India and Hinaya met each other over breakfast at a hotel where the Mumbai Indians squad was putting up. Going by the photo that Bhajji posted on his Instagram handle, both the munchkins had a great time in each other's company. Not to forget that the photo has an overdose of cuteness.

When baby 👶 Hinaya met baby India Rhodes at the breakfast this morning ❤❤❤❤❤ @jontyrhodes8 #ipldiaries #bondingsession A post shared by Harbhajan Turbanator Singh (@harbhajan3) on Apr 8, 2017 at 4:51am PDT

Mumbai Indians next face Royal Challengers Bangalore in their next encounter on Friday. It also marks the return of Virat Kohli to cricket.

Twitter

Bhajji didn't play in the first IPL match of the Mumbai Indians. He last played for India in the T20I World Cup 2016. He's still waiting for an India comeback, which doesn't really seem on the cards.