Stepfather of suspect in nationwide manhunt fears 'suicide-by-cop' plot
Stepfather of suspect in manhunt fears 'suicide-by-cop' plot
Shares               The stepfather of a Wisconsin man who is on the run after allegedly robbing a gun store and sending a 161-page anti-government manifesto to the White House said his stepson may be preparing for a showdown with police. Donald McLean said he fears his stepson, Joseph Jakubowski, 32, could be plotting a final showdown with police. "I'm afraid he's trying to commit suicide-by-cop," McLean told ABC affiliate WKOW on Monday. "I believe he is capable of that." Jakubowski, of the Janesville, Wisconsin, area, is at the center of a nationwide manhunt involving 150 state and federal law enforcement officers. He is suspected of stealing more than a dozen high-end firearms from the Armageddon Supplies gun shop in Janesville last week and sending a 161-page manifesto to President Donald Trump . The manifesto, which authorities confirmed reached the White House, included "grievances against government and personal angst towards anyone or anything other than natural law or rule," Rock County Sheriff Robert Spoden said last week.   The sheriff’s office also released a video that appears to show Jakubowski mailing a package to Trump. "To anybody that got this letter, you might want to read it," Jakubowski says in the video as approachea a Wisconsin post office , holding a large white envelope with multiple stamps on it. "There it is, you see, it's getting shipped. Revolution. It's time for change." McLean said he and Jakubowski's mother, Julie McLean, live just a few miles from the suspect’s rental unit, but they’ve been estranged for about two years. "He's trying to make a statement, McLean told WKOW. “Ten years from now, no one's going to know his name." The FBI is offering a $10,000 reward for any information that leads to Jakubowski’s arrest. Police said he should be considered “armed and dangerous.” Shares                  Stepfather of suspect in manhunt fears 'suicide-by-cop' plot   Top issues on the table as Tillerson heads to Moscow   Lawyer: Suspect admits ramming truck into crowd in Stockholm   Thieves ram stolen truck into Florida gun shop in daring heist   Trump jobs demands force automakers into political conflict   Sessions to tour Arizona-Mexico border Tuesday   North Korea calls US aircraft carrier dispatch outrageous   SEAL instructor will not face charges in death of trainee who drowned   Police: Gunman who killed Texas lawman killed himself   Airlines often oversell flights, end up bumping passengers   Le Pen criticized for denying French blame in WWII roundup   High school senior jumps out of plane for elaborate skydiving 'promposal'   Family avoids cat-astrophe after mountain lion invades home   Bat reportedly found in salad spurs CDC investigation   Definition of lazy: Man gets his takeout from his roof   Julia, a Muppet with autism, makes first appearance on 'Sesame Street'   Author shares tips to fight rising health care costs   3-legged dog named Miracle up for adoption after saving her puppies from factory fire   Double amputee leaves her wheelchair behind   Bombardment in Iraq's Mosul takes heavy toll on civilians   What exactly is US Syria policy? Big questions for allies   Wells Fargo details sales scandal findings, seizing $75M in compensation from 2 former execs   Brake lights stretch for miles after Atlanta bridge collapse   Israel shuts Egypt border after terror warning Passover eve   China bars wife of detained Taiwanese activist from visiting   Jewish family renews fight for Passover manuscript   Canada PM Trudeau visits Juno Beach, site of D-Day landings   Palm Sunday bombings latest in string of attacks against Egypt's Christians   Utah doctor convicted of killing wife in bathtub dies   What to know about the Fox News and Bill O'Reilly controversies   Wendy Walsh says Bill O'Reilly 'became hostile' after she rebuffed his alleged sexual advances   Fox News, dogged by misconduct claims, faces new lawsuits   United CEO tells employees 'there are lessons we can learn' after man is dragged off flight   Officer appears to slam woman onto sidewalk in video   Indiana grandma marries high school prom date 64 years later   College student creates 3-page dating application for potential suitors   8 arrested in connected with St. Petersburg bombing   Charleston church shooter 'is not all bad,' grandfather says   The Hulk, Cate Blanchett and more highlights from 'Thor: Ragnarok' trailer   Nikki Bella says people respect her more now that she's engaged to John Cena   The Rat Pack: Dog, cat and rat form unlikely love triangle

The stepfather of a Wisconsin man who is on the run after allegedly robbing a gun store and sending a 161-page anti-government manifesto to the White House said his stepson may be preparing for a showdown with police.

Donald McLean said he fears his stepson, Joseph Jakubowski, 32, could be plotting a final showdown with police.

"I'm afraid he's trying to commit suicide-by-cop," McLean told ABC affiliate WKOW on Monday. "I believe he is capable of that."

Jakubowski, of the Janesville, Wisconsin, area, is at the center of a nationwide manhunt involving 150 state and federal law enforcement officers.

He is suspected of stealing more than a dozen high-end firearms from the Armageddon Supplies gun shop in Janesville last week and sending a 161-page manifesto to President Donald Trump.

The manifesto, which authorities confirmed reached the White House, included "grievances against government and personal angst towards anyone or anything other than natural law or rule," Rock County Sheriff Robert Spoden said last week.

The Associated Press

The sheriff’s office also released a video that appears to show Jakubowski mailing a package to Trump.

"To anybody that got this letter, you might want to read it," Jakubowski says in the video as approachea a Wisconsin post office, holding a large white envelope with multiple stamps on it. "There it is, you see, it's getting shipped. Revolution. It's time for change."

McLean said he and Jakubowski's mother, Julie McLean, live just a few miles from the suspect’s rental unit, but they’ve been estranged for about two years.

"He's trying to make a statement, McLean told WKOW. “Ten years from now, no one's going to know his name."

The FBI is offering a $10,000 reward for any information that leads to Jakubowski’s arrest. Police said he should be considered “armed and dangerous.”