Cops Hunt Accused Gun Thief Who Sent Anti-Government Manifesto To Trump
Cops Hunt Accused Gun Thief Who Sent Anti-Government Manifesto To Trump
Police in Wisconsin have been searching for days for a “highly agitated” man they say stole a cache of firearms from a gun shop and threatened public officials, including President Donald Trump . Joseph Jakubowski, 32, sent a menacing, anti-government and anti-religion manifesto to Trump on April 4, the same day he stole a “large quantity of high-end handguns and rifles” from a gun shop in Janesville, according to the Rock County Sheriff’s Office. Jakubowski has been “highly agitated recently regarding a variety of political issues,” the sheriff’s office said. About 30 minutes after the break-in at the Armageddon Gun Shop last week, Jakubowski’s station wagon was found on fire, the result of arson, the sheriff’s department said in a statement . It’s unclear if Jakubowski is hiding in the southern part of the state or has fled the area, authorities said . Federal, state and local departments have supplied officers to help with the manhunt. He also made threats against schools, but didn’t mention a specific location, according to the sheriff’s office. Janesville School District canceled classes on Friday as a precaution. More officers have been patrolling near churches, because of the unspecified anti-religious remarks in the suspect’s manifesto, the sheriff’s office said over the weekend. Authorities on Friday released video appearing to show Jakubowski addressing en envelope to Trump and buying postage to send his 161-page manifesto to the White House. “To anybody that got this letter, you might want to read it,” the man police identified as Jakubowski says as he walks through a parking lot after visiting the post office. “Revolution. It’s time for change.” The sheriff’s office said the manifesto “includes grievances against government and personal angst toward anyone or anything other than natural law or rule,” according to CNN . A second man also is heard on the video. “D-day. Today is the day,” says the second man off camera as the video follows Jabukowski. “So remember this face.” Jakubowski was imprisoned in 2009 for trying to seize a cop’s gun, The New York Times reported. He has long harbored anti-police attitudes, his stepfather said, and may be trying to provoke an officer into killing him, according to NBC News. Jakubowski is white with brown hair and green eyes. He stands 5-feet-10 and weighs 200 pounds, according to the sheriff’s office. He’s described as armed and dangerous. The FBI is offering up to $10,000 for information that leads to his capture. Tipsters can call the bureau at 800-225-5324. ALSO ON HUFFPOST MORE:

Police in Wisconsin have been searching for days for a “highly agitated” man they say stole a cache of firearms from a gun shop and threatened public officials, including President Donald Trump.

Joseph Jakubowski, 32, sent a menacing, anti-government and anti-religion manifesto to Trump on April 4, the same day he stole a “large quantity of high-end handguns and rifles” from a gun shop in Janesville, according to the Rock County Sheriff’s Office.

Jakubowski has been “highly agitated recently regarding a variety of political issues,” the sheriff’s office said.

About 30 minutes after the break-in at the Armageddon Gun Shop last week, Jakubowski’s station wagon was found on fire, the result of arson, the sheriff’s department said in a statement.

It’s unclear if Jakubowski is hiding in the southern part of the state or has fled the area, authorities said. Federal, state and local departments have supplied officers to help with the manhunt.

He also made threats against schools, but didn’t mention a specific location, according to the sheriff’s office. Janesville School District canceled classes on Friday as a precaution. More officers have been patrolling near churches, because of the unspecified anti-religious remarks in the suspect’s manifesto, the sheriff’s office said over the weekend.

Authorities on Friday released video appearing to show Jakubowski addressing en envelope to Trump and buying postage to send his 161-page manifesto to the White House.

“To anybody that got this letter, you might want to read it,” the man police identified as Jakubowski says as he walks through a parking lot after visiting the post office. “Revolution. It’s time for change.”

The sheriff’s office said the manifesto “includes grievances against government and personal angst toward anyone or anything other than natural law or rule,” according to CNN.

A second man also is heard on the video.

“D-day. Today is the day,” says the second man off camera as the video follows Jabukowski. “So remember this face.”

Jakubowski was imprisoned in 2009 for trying to seize a cop’s gun, The New York Times reported. He has long harbored anti-police attitudes, his stepfather said, and may be trying to provoke an officer into killing him, according to NBC News.

Jakubowski is white with brown hair and green eyes. He stands 5-feet-10 and weighs 200 pounds, according to the sheriff’s office. He’s described as armed and dangerous.