Anupam Kher Creates Website To Help Lonely And Depressed People, Shares His E-mail ID
Anupam Kher Creates Website To Help Lonely And Depressed People, Shares His E-mail ID
Anupam Kher Creates Website To Help Lonely And Depressed People, Shares His E-mail ID Veteran actor Anupam Kher has shared his e-mail address on social media as he wants to connect with "lonely or depressed" people. He feels that there is a need to listen to the young generation and not pass off their silence. Anupam's comment comes after Arjun Bhardwaj, an engineering student checked into a suite on the 19th floor of a hotel before daybreak on Monday. Hours later, he broke a window and jumped, according to reports. Anupam then shared his e-mail address with his fans and asked them to connect with people, who are feeling lonely. "Appreciation is a wonderful thing: It makes what is excellent in others belong to us as well.":) "Please write to me at anupam@anupamkhercompany.com if someone you know is feeling low, lonely or depressed. Will be happy to talk to them," he tweeted. "Arjun Bhardwaj's suicide is a reminder that we live in the times where feeling lonely and depressed has become so common with young people," Anupam said. The actor says he grew up in a joint family and didn't know what depression was. Please read & share. 🙏 Arjun Bhardwaj suicide: Anupam Kher to develop website to help the lonely and depressed https://t.co/fjGi2ln0Lq  "Having lived in a poor but a joint family during my growing up years... was always surrounded by people. Didn't know much about depression," he said. "We need to talk to and listen to the young generation. Not pass off their changing moods and silences as 'they are like that only.' Arjun Bhardwaj," he added.

Veteran actor Anupam Kher has shared his e-mail address on social media as he wants to connect with "lonely or depressed" people. He feels that there is a need to listen to the young generation and not pass off their silence.

Twitter/Anupam Kher

Anupam's comment comes after Arjun Bhardwaj, an engineering student checked into a suite on the 19th floor of a hotel before daybreak on Monday. Hours later, he broke a window and jumped, according to reports.



Anupam then shared his e-mail address with his fans and asked them to connect with people, who are feeling lonely.

"Appreciation is a wonderful thing: It makes what is excellent in others belong to us as well.":) — Anupam Kher (@AnupamPkher) April 11, 2017



"Please write to me at anupam@anupamkhercompany.com if someone you know is feeling low, lonely or depressed. Will be happy to talk to them," he tweeted.



"Arjun Bhardwaj's suicide is a reminder that we live in the times where feeling lonely and depressed has become so common with young people," Anupam said.



The actor says he grew up in a joint family and didn't know what depression was.

Please read & share. 🙏 Arjun Bhardwaj suicide: Anupam Kher to develop website to help the lonely and depressed https://t.co/fjGi2ln0Lq — Anupam Kher (@AnupamPkher) April 10, 2017



"Having lived in a poor but a joint family during my growing up years... was always surrounded by people. Didn't know much about depression," he said.

"We need to talk to and listen to the young generation. Not pass off their changing moods and silences as 'they are like that only.' Arjun Bhardwaj," he

added.

Don't Miss 27.4 K SHARES 8.5 K SHARES 33.8 K SHARES

(Inputs from IANS)