UK inflation holds steady at three-and-a-half year high as cheaper air fares and falling petrol offset food price rises
UK inflation holds steady at three-and-a-half year high as cheaper air fares and falling petrol offset food price rises
nflation remained at a three-and-a-half year high last month, as cheaper air fares and falling petrol costs helped to offset a rise in food and clothing prices. Prices, as measured by the consumer prices index (CPI), rose by 2.3pc in the year to March. This was in line with economists' expectations and follows four consecutive months of rising inflation. It is also the joint highest rate since September 2013. The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said the late timing of the Easter holidays this year - which fall in April, compared with March last year, pushed down the cost of air fares compared with a year ago. A drop in petrol prices between February and March also exerted downward pressure on the headline rate. owever, this was offset by rising food and clothing prices as the fall in the value of the pound following last year's Brexit vote continued to push up consumer costs. The ONS's preferred measure of inflation, which includes a measure of housing costs for home owners, also stood at 2.3pc in March, unchanged from February. It said all 13 broad categories of goods and services it measures pushed up the headline rate for the first time since June 2014. Separate ONS data showed falling fuel prices helped to ease the pressure at the factory gate. Output prices climbed 3.6pc in the year to March, following an increase of 3.7pc in February, while input prices paid by UK manufacturers rose at an annual rate of 17.9pc in March, following growth of 19.4pc the previous month. onathan Athow, deputy national statistician at the ONS, said: “The costs of raw materials and the price of manufactured goods leaving factories were both little changed, as falling fuel prices helped stem further rises. Inflation to jump again next month Economists expect inflation to rise again next month as Easter-related price rises kick-in, while rising energy bills are also expected to push up inflation in the coming months. Ruth Gregory, an economist at Capital Economics, said: "Air fares inflation should add a few tenths of a percentage point back onto the CPI rate in April, while electricity prices will rise sharply in the coming months as a result of utility companies’ price hikes. "As a result, we think that CPI inflation will peak at just over 3pc before the end of the year." A spokesman for the Treasury said: "We are building an economy that works for everyone and helping families with the cost of living by cutting income taxes for 31 million people, freezing fuel duty and increasing the National Living Wage to £7.50 per hour."

Inflation remained at a three-and-a-half year high last month, as cheaper air fares and falling petrol costs helped to offset a rise in food and clothing prices.

Prices, as measured by the consumer prices index (CPI), rose by 2.3pc in the year to March.

This was in line with economists' expectations and follows four consecutive months of rising inflation. It is also the joint highest rate since September 2013.

The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said the late timing of the Easter holidays this year - which fall in April, compared with March last year, pushed down the cost of air fares compared with a year ago.

A drop in petrol prices between February and March also exerted downward pressure on the headline rate.