This Hospital Granted A Patient's Dying Wish For A Glass Of Wine And Cigarette
This Hospital Granted A Patient's Dying Wish For A Glass Of Wine And Cigarette
This Hospital Granted A Patient's Dying Wish For A Glass Of Wine And Cigarette While Watching The Sunset This picture captures the moment when 75-year-old, Carsten Hansen was enjoying his last few hours at the hospital. His only wish as his life slipped through his fingers, was to smoke a cigarette, sip a glass of wine while watching the sun go. And, a Danish hospital broke all the protocol to fulfill Mr.Hansen's wish. Hansen was brought to the hospital with a burst artery in his abdomen. The surgeons said he was too sick to undergo an operation and said that he would die within hours or days. The news devastated Hansen, but that did not stop him from enjoying his every last minute. His family sat by him as he watched the sun go. A local news website quoted Hansen's daughter as saying,  "I think that the nurses chose to bend the rules because he is human. They showed empathy and tenderness for my father.It also meant a lot to us as a family that my father could have his last wish fulfilled." The picture captioned "a dignified death" has touched millions of hearts across the world.

This picture captures the moment when 75-year-old, Carsten Hansen was enjoying his last few hours at the hospital.

His only wish as his life slipped through his fingers, was to smoke a cigarette, sip a glass of wine while watching the sun go.

Facebook/Aarhus Universitetshospital

And, a Danish hospital broke all the protocol to fulfill Mr.Hansen's wish.

Hansen was brought to the hospital with a burst artery in his abdomen. The surgeons said he was too sick to undergo an operation and said that he would die within hours or days.

The news devastated Hansen, but that did not stop him from enjoying his every last minute. His family sat by him as he watched the sun go.

A local news website quoted Hansen's daughter as saying, "I think that the nurses chose to bend the rules because he is human. They showed empathy and tenderness for my father.It also meant a lot to us as a family that my father could have his last wish fulfilled."

The picture captioned "a dignified death" has touched millions of hearts across the world.