Nancy Kerrigan Reveals Miscarriage Woes on 'Dancing With the Stars'
Nancy Kerrigan Reveals Miscarriage Woes on 'Dancing With the Stars'
On Dancing With the Stars, two-time Olympic medalist Nancy Kerrigan revealed that she had six miscarriages over the course of 8 years. Kerrigan said that after the birth of her first son, Matthew, she soon got pregnant again. However that fetus and the following five resulted in miscarriages that were emotionally and physically taxing. Kerrigan said, "It almost felt shameful because I couldn't do it on my own." Fortunately Kerrigan persevered and was able to have two more children, Brian and Nicole, with the help in vitro fertilization. And it was that perseverance that she chose to showcase in her dancing performance. The judges loved her performance, with Carrie Ann Inaba saying, "You have that incredible vulnerability that lies just beneath the surface of this incredible courage. You touched me, and everybody else, because you're dancing on the edge. You push yourself to your edge emotionally and physically and it's so inspiring and you're one courageous lady."

On Dancing With the Stars, two-time Olympic medalist Nancy Kerrigan revealed that she had six miscarriages over the course of 8 years.

Kerrigan said that after the birth of her first son, Matthew, she soon got pregnant again. However that fetus and the following five resulted in miscarriages that were emotionally and physically taxing. Kerrigan said, "It almost felt shameful because I couldn't do it on my own."

Fortunately Kerrigan persevered and was able to have two more children, Brian and Nicole, with the help in vitro fertilization. And it was that perseverance that she chose to showcase in her dancing performance.

The judges loved her performance, with Carrie Ann Inaba saying, "You have that incredible vulnerability that lies just beneath the surface of this incredible courage. You touched me, and everybody else, because you're dancing on the edge. You push yourself to your edge emotionally and physically and it's so inspiring and you're one courageous lady."