1 dead, 2 injured in shooting at Ficosa plant in Tennessee
1 dead, 2 injured in shooting at Ficosa plant in Tennessee
Shares               One person is dead and two were hospitalized after a shooting at an automotive part production plant in Cookeville, Tennessee, the Putnam County Sheriff's Office said. The scene at the Ficosa plant has since been secured and there is no danger to the public, the Cookeville Police Department said. The shooting took place at about 10:35 a.m., police said. The conditions of the two injured individuals were not immediately clear, the sheriff's office said.  Shares                  1 dead, 2 injured in shooting at Ficosa plant in Tennessee   Tillerson draws line in the sand over Russia's support of Assad regime   Sessions warns of 'Trump era' of immigration enforcement   Trump urges China to 'solve the North Korea problem'   'Heartbroken' Ivanka Trump influenced Syria strike, her brother says   Kremlin demanding clarity on US' Syria policy, as Tillerson arrives in Moscow   Suspect admits ramming truck into Stockholm crowd: Lawyer   Obama expected at Protestant event in Berlin next month   Iraq says Islamic State has lost most of the land it seized   North Korea calls US aircraft carrier dispatch outrageous   Thieves ram truck into gun shop in daring heist   7th grader wins awards for 'remarkable' cancer research   Chris Pratt tells wife Anna Faris, 'I'm grateful to have you'   Instead of dyeing Easter eggs, try decoupage   College student creates 3-page dating application for potential suitors   Teen's quest for Wendy's nuggets gets huge Twitter support   Indiana grandma marries high school prom date 64 years later   High school senior jumps out of plane for elaborate skydiving 'promposal'   Family avoids cat-astrophe after mountain lion invades home   Bat reportedly found in salad spurs CDC investigation   Definition of lazy: Man gets his takeout from his roof   8 arrested in connection with St. Petersburg bombing   US, Canada, Mexico ask FIFA for faster World Cup bid process   Wells banker singled out for excesses had a meteoric rise   Appeals court reverses ruling blocking tribe's casino bid   Bombardment in Iraq's Mosul takes heavy toll on civilians   Cases, but also cafeteria duty, await Gorsuch at high court   Mystery surrounds murder of Chicago judge   Judge shot to death in Chicago, manhunt on for suspect   Family of Navy SEAL trainee who died plans to take legal action   SEAL instructor will not face charges in death of trainee who drowned   Nancy Kerrigan opens up about her 6 miscarriages in 8 years   1 killed, several hurt in explosion in Turkey   Officials anticipate 'endgame' with fugitive who sent manifesto to Trump   'The Daily Show' star to host White House correspondents' dinner   Mr. T insists he wasn't 'booted' off 'Dancing With the Stars'   The Rat Pack: Dog, cat and rat form unlikely love triangle

One person is dead and two were hospitalized after a shooting at an automotive part production plant in Cookeville, Tennessee, the Putnam County Sheriff's Office said.

The scene at the Ficosa plant has since been secured and there is no danger to the public, the Cookeville Police Department said.

The shooting took place at about 10:35 a.m., police said.

The conditions of the two injured individuals were not immediately clear, the sheriff's office said.

This story is developing. Please check back for more updates.