Kendrick Lamar Revealed Title Of His New Album 'DAMN.' Over A Week Ago
Kendrick Lamar Revealed Title Of His New Album 'DAMN.' Over A Week Ago
Early this morning, Kendrick Lamar casually dropped the title, album art, and tracklist for , his fourth studio album, which is due out on Friday, April 14. For those— DJ Akademiks included —who were still skeptical on if Kendrick would even be dropping an album this Friday, this appears to have silenced the naysayers. I mean, hell, the album has a title now... we should be fine, right? Leave it to Complex News anchor/the face of the P&P Update Jinx to point out something many of us didn't even notice in Kendrick's "Humble" video. Album title was on Kendrick's shirt in the "Humble" video. Bet there's a few other gems throughout... Word? He snuck that in there EARLY! We had to investigate, and sure enough, in all of these scenes where he's on the bike, he's definitely rocking a white tee with 'DAMN' written across it. Might be hard to see, but trust, it's there. We see you, K-Dot, and we respect you. is out this Friday and is available for pre-order on iTunes .

Early this morning, Kendrick Lamar casually dropped the title, album art, and tracklist for DAMN., his fourth studio album, which is due out on Friday, April 14. For those—DJ Akademiks included—who were still skeptical on if Kendrick would even be dropping an album this Friday, this appears to have silenced the naysayers. I mean, hell, the album has a title now... we should be fine, right?

Leave it to Complex News anchor/the face of the P&P Update Jinx to point out something many of us didn't even notice in Kendrick's "Humble" video.

Album title was on Kendrick's shirt in the "Humble" video. Bet there's a few other gems throughout... — Brandon / Jinx (@Jersey_Jinx) April 11, 2017

Word? He snuck that in there EARLY! We had to investigate, and sure enough, in all of these scenes where he's on the bike, he's definitely rocking a white tee with 'DAMN' written across it.

Might be hard to see, but trust, it's there.

Image via YouTube

We see you, K-Dot, and we respect you. DAMN. is out this Friday and is available for pre-order on iTunes.