CMO Today: United Grapples With PR Disaster
CMO Today: United Grapples With PR Disaster
Biography Jack Marshall @JackMarshall Google+ jack.marshall@wsj.com  It’s 2017, which means many people on planes have smartphones, and therefore video cameras within reach at a moment’s notice -- so perhaps airlines should avoid having customers dragged from their planes wherever possible. Twitter and Facebook lighted up Sunday and Monday with videos of a distressed passenger being forcibly removed from a United Airlines flight at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport, The Wall Street Journal reports. United said that its employees weren’t directly involved in the incident but that it asked airport security to remove the passenger after he refused to disembark to make space for a United crew member flying on standby. Nevertheless, the mere existence of such footage is a PR nightmare for United, which appeared to make matters worse Monday with what many social-media users viewed as a rather lackluster response to the matter. A note United Continental Chief Executive Oscar Munoz sent employees Monday evening described the passenger as “disruptive and belligerent,” and Mr. Munoz said he “stands behind” the actions of United employees, CNBC reports.  Alphabet generated more than $60 billion in digital advertising revenue last year, so it’s perhaps unsurprising the ad giant is figuring out ways to force commercials on viewers of its new internet TV offering. YouTube TV, which launched in select markets last week for $35 a month, promises subscribers access to more than 50 live streaming TV channels and an “unlimited” digital video recorder stored in Google’s cloud. But viewers who expect to use that DVR service to skip past ads on prerecorded shows might be unpleasantly surprised to learn they can’t , the Journal reports. Thanks to the tangle of contracts YouTube has in place with major media companies, YouTube will force viewers to watch on-demand versions of shows if they’re available -- complete with unskippable ads -- instead of allowing viewers to access their own DVR recordings. A YouTube spokeswoman said the arrangement is “tied to deals” with TV programmers, but it’s a departure from the deals TV networks usually strike with cable partners, which typically allow users to access both on-demand and DVR content as they wish. The concession on YouTube’s part could be a result of TV networks’ reluctance to strike deals with a property owned by Alphabet, with which media and technology companies of all stripes increasingly compete.  Newspapers have enjoyed something of a resurgence in recent months, thanks in large part to the ascension of Donald Trump and the continued spread of intentionally misleading or “fake” news. “Traditional” print publications were buoyed further Monday with the announcement of this year’s Pulitzer prizes , many of which were awarded to newspapers instead of digital outlets, which had begun scooping up awards in recent years. The New York Times was awarded three prizes, The Wall Street Journal received one, and the combined reporting of the New York Daily News and ProPublica won the coveted award for public-service journalism, the Journal reports. Smaller papers such as the Charleston Gazette-Mail, the East Bay Times and the Salt Lake Tribune also picked up awards, while the Washington Post’s David Fahrenthold won the award for national reporting for his series of stories looking at President Trump’s reported charitable donations.  “Fake news” has been the subject of much debate over the past year, as the media and consumers wonder about the impact of intentionally false news articles on the U.S. political process and debate whose responsibility it is to help prevent its dissemination. With most fake news articles there is little recourse, other than attempting to shut off the ads that appear alongside such content. When it comes to misleading articles affecting the stock market, however, it appears the Securities and Exchange Commission doesn’t mess around. The SEC on Monday announced a crackdown on alleged stock-promotion schemes in which writers were paid to post hundreds of articles about public companies on financial websites, Reuters reports. Nearly 30 individuals and entities were charged with misleading investors into believing they were reading “unbiased analyses” of various stocks across a range of financial sites, including Seeking Alpha, Benzinga and Wall Street Cheat Sheet. The SEC said it found more than 450 dubious articles, of which more than 250 falsely said the authors weren’t being paid for their posts. “Here, we allege the fraud was in presenting the analysis as impartial,” said Stephanie Avakian, acting director of the SEC enforcement division. Elsewhere Comcast hopes to take on video rivals including Netflix with a video service offering streaming access to shows from its NBCUniversal TV networks in the next 18 months. [ Bloomberg ] Fox News has named Amy Listerman as its first female chief financial officer in the history of the network. The appointment comes in the midst of a widening sexual-harassment scandal at the cable news network. [ The Wrap ] Facebook has more than 5 million business advertising across its social network, up from 3 million a little over a year ago [ Reuters ] Nielsen has launched an out-of-home reporting service, which it says can measure linear TV commercial viewing in bars, restaurants and other non-domestic locals. [ Broadcasting & Cable ] Hearst is launching a new product for Amazon’s voice-enabled assistant Alexa, through which consumers can opt to hear Oprah Winfrey read short snippets from her new book. [ CMO Today ] Employees at Breitbart News reportedly have been asked to avoid writing negative stories about Jared Kushner, a senior adviser and son-in-law to Donald Trump. [ Business Insider ] Video site Dailymotion plans to abandon its roots as a home for user-generated content ahead of a relaunch in June, after which it plans to focus its efforts on professionally produced content. [ Variety ] Press Gazette, a U.K.-based journalism trade publication, said it launched a campaign designed to stop Facebook and Google “destroying journalism.” [ Press Gazette ] About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @digitalshields , @VranicaWSJ , @JackMarshall , @alexbruell , @srabil , @asharma  Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .  Jack Marshall at Jack.Marshall@wsj.com      Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print   Why Digital Attribution Matters  The proliferation of media channels and the wealth of customer data now available increase the need for marketers to accurately measure online ad performance. Some companies are creating digital attribution systems that track the performance of different channels so they can optimize campaigns and make smarter budget allocation decisions.  Please note: The Wall Street Journal News Department was not involved in the creation of the content above. Most Popular Videos  United Airlines Passenger Violently Removed From Flight  Thyroid Cancer: Link to Household Products?   Beware Fake Amazon Deals: Hackers Hit Sellers    Opinion: The FBI, Billy Bush and the Upset of 2016    Opinion Journal: Repeal and Replace Revival?  Most Popular Articles      Opinion: Peggy Noonan Wins 2017 Pulitzer Prize for Commentary        Videos of Man Dragged Off United Flight Spark Backlash        Wall Street Made Charles Murphy Successful and Rich, but Happiness Eluded Him        Seoul Plays Down Possibility of Pre-Emptive U.S. Strike on North Korea     In the $75 Billion Videogame Industry, Hiring People Is a Last Resort

Photo: Seth Wenig/Associated Press

PR NOSEDIVE: It’s 2017, which means many people on planes have smartphones, and therefore video cameras within reach at a moment’s notice -- so perhaps airlines should avoid having customers dragged from their planes wherever possible. Twitter and Facebook lighted up Sunday and Monday with videos of a distressed passenger being forcibly removed from a United Airlines flight at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport, The Wall Street Journal reports. United said that its employees weren’t directly involved in the incident but that it asked airport security to remove the passenger after he refused to disembark to make space for a United crew member flying on standby. Nevertheless, the mere existence of such footage is a PR nightmare for United, which appeared to make matters worse Monday with what many social-media users viewed as a rather lackluster response to the matter. A note United Continental Chief Executive Oscar Munoz sent employees Monday evening described the passenger as “disruptive and belligerent,” and Mr. Munoz said he “stands behind” the actions of United employees, CNBC reports.

AD SKIP: Alphabet generated more than $60 billion in digital advertising revenue last year, so it’s perhaps unsurprising the ad giant is figuring out ways to force commercials on viewers of its new internet TV offering. YouTube TV, which launched in select markets last week for $35 a month, promises subscribers access to more than 50 live streaming TV channels and an “unlimited” digital video recorder stored in Google’s cloud. But viewers who expect to use that DVR service to skip past ads on prerecorded shows might be unpleasantly surprised to learn they can’t, the Journal reports. Thanks to the tangle of contracts YouTube has in place with major media companies, YouTube will force viewers to watch on-demand versions of shows if they’re available -- complete with unskippable ads -- instead of allowing viewers to access their own DVR recordings. A YouTube spokeswoman said the arrangement is “tied to deals” with TV programmers, but it’s a departure from the deals TV networks usually strike with cable partners, which typically allow users to access both on-demand and DVR content as they wish. The concession on YouTube’s part could be a result of TV networks’ reluctance to strike deals with a property owned by Alphabet, with which media and technology companies of all stripes increasingly compete.

PULITZERS FOR PAPERS: Newspapers have enjoyed something of a resurgence in recent months, thanks in large part to the ascension of Donald Trump and the continued spread of intentionally misleading or “fake” news. “Traditional” print publications were buoyed further Monday with the announcement of this year’s Pulitzer prizes, many of which were awarded to newspapers instead of digital outlets, which had begun scooping up awards in recent years. The New York Times was awarded three prizes, The Wall Street Journal received one, and the combined reporting of the New York Daily News and ProPublica won the coveted award for public-service journalism, the Journal reports. Smaller papers such as the Charleston Gazette-Mail, the East Bay Times and the Salt Lake Tribune also picked up awards, while the Washington Post’s David Fahrenthold won the award for national reporting for his series of stories looking at President Trump’s reported charitable donations.

SEC FAKE NEWS CRACKDOWN: “Fake news” has been the subject of much debate over the past year, as the media and consumers wonder about the impact of intentionally false news articles on the U.S. political process and debate whose responsibility it is to help prevent its dissemination. With most fake news articles there is little recourse, other than attempting to shut off the ads that appear alongside such content. When it comes to misleading articles affecting the stock market, however, it appears the Securities and Exchange Commission doesn’t mess around. The SEC on Monday announced a crackdown on alleged stock-promotion schemes in which writers were paid to post hundreds of articles about public companies on financial websites, Reuters reports. Nearly 30 individuals and entities were charged with misleading investors into believing they were reading “unbiased analyses” of various stocks across a range of financial sites, including Seeking Alpha, Benzinga and Wall Street Cheat Sheet. The SEC said it found more than 450 dubious articles, of which more than 250 falsely said the authors weren’t being paid for their posts. “Here, we allege the fraud was in presenting the analysis as impartial,” said Stephanie Avakian, acting director of the SEC enforcement division.

Elsewhere

Comcast hopes to take on video rivals including Netflix with a video service offering streaming access to shows from its NBCUniversal TV networks in the next 18 months. [Bloomberg]

Fox News has named Amy Listerman as its first female chief financial officer in the history of the network. The appointment comes in the midst of a widening sexual-harassment scandal at the cable news network. [The Wrap]

Facebook has more than 5 million business advertising across its social network, up from 3 million a little over a year ago [Reuters]

Nielsen has launched an out-of-home reporting service, which it says can measure linear TV commercial viewing in bars, restaurants and other non-domestic locals. [Broadcasting & Cable]

Hearst is launching a new product for Amazon’s voice-enabled assistant Alexa, through which consumers can opt to hear Oprah Winfrey read short snippets from her new book. [CMO Today]

Employees at Breitbart News reportedly have been asked to avoid writing negative stories about Jared Kushner, a senior adviser and son-in-law to Donald Trump. [Business Insider]

Video site Dailymotion plans to abandon its roots as a home for user-generated content ahead of a relaunch in June, after which it plans to focus its efforts on professionally produced content. [Variety]

Press Gazette, a U.K.-based journalism trade publication, said it launched a campaign designed to stop Facebook and Google “destroying journalism.” [Press Gazette]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @digitalshields, @VranicaWSJ, @JackMarshall, @alexbruell, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Jack Marshall at Jack.Marshall@wsj.com