Fake Shark Brings New Single 'Heart 2 Heart' to Life in Colorful Video: Premiere
Fake Shark Brings New Single 'Heart 2 Heart' to Life in Colorful Video: Premiere
Fake Shark Brings New Single 'Heart 2 Heart' to Life in Colorful Video: Premiere  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Fake Shark unveiled its latest single "Heart 2 Heart" on March 24, a groovy electronic indie-pop track that'sÂ almost irresistible to dance to.Â The groovy song now hasÂ a video to bring it to life,Â premiering on today (April 11). The visual sees the band (frontman Kevvy Mental, guitarist Louis Wu and bassist Tony Dallas) playing their new tune against a bright pink backdrop -- similar to the neon hueÂ of Kevvy'sÂ hair -- that changes colors throughout the video. On top of the colorful background,Â animator Jarrett Sitter providedÂ white illustrations including hearts, stars, skeletons and other images that addÂ even more liveliness to the bouncy tune. "The video came togetherÂ within three days, which is almost too fast for something of quality. I showed Ben Knechtal (the director) the song and artwork for the record, and specifically the lighting, we traded some Odd Future and Danny Brown music video moments we liked back and forth, and literally a day later he was on a flight to Vancouver to do it," Kevvy explained to . "Ben is able to find candidness where other directors can't, and that's why we wanted him and no one else. The song is about the details of personal experiences. The things you forget about something that happened to you unless you write them down." As for Sitter's animations, the band explained that they really let him do whatever he felt was fitting to the song's vibe.Â "When he came back having animated my cat tattoos into Misfits logos, I knew we could just let him do whatever he was thinking. This was the perfect team for a great video and nobody questioned each other artistically."Â "Heart 2 Heart" is the first track from Fake Shark's upcoming full-length albumÂ -- the first under their newly shortened name (goodbye,Â Fake Shark - Real Zombie!) --Â which will be released on May 26 via Light Organ Records. Watch the "Heart 2 Heart" video below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Fake Shark unveiled its latest single "Heart 2 Heart" on March 24, a groovy electronic indie-pop track that'sÂ almost irresistible to dance to.Â The groovy song now hasÂ a video to bring it to life,Â premiering on Billboard today (April 11).

The visual sees the band (frontman Kevvy Mental, guitarist Louis Wu and bassist Tony Dallas) playing their new tune against a bright pink backdrop -- similar to the neon hueÂ of Kevvy'sÂ hair -- that changes colors throughout the video. On top of the colorful background,Â animator Jarrett Sitter providedÂ white illustrations including hearts, stars, skeletons and other images that addÂ even more liveliness to the bouncy tune.

"The video came togetherÂ within three days, which is almost too fast for something of quality. I showed Ben Knechtal (the director) the song and artwork for the record, and specifically the lighting, we traded some Odd Future and Danny Brown music video moments we liked back and forth, and literally a day later he was on a flight to Vancouver to do it," Kevvy explained to Billboard. "Ben is able to find candidness where other directors can't, and that's why we wanted him and no one else. The song is about the details of personal experiences. The things you forget about something that happened to you unless you write them down."

As for Sitter's animations, the band explained that they really let him do whatever he felt was fitting to the song's vibe.Â "When he came back having animated my cat tattoos into Misfits logos, I knew we could just let him do whatever he was thinking. This was the perfect team for a great video and nobody questioned each other artistically."Â

"Heart 2 Heart" is the first track from Fake Shark's upcoming full-length albumÂ Faux RealÂ -- the first under their newly shortened name (goodbye,Â Fake Shark - Real Zombie!) --Â which will be released on May 26 via Light Organ Records.

Watch the "Heart 2 Heart" video below.