China 'executed more in 2016 than rest of world combined'
China 'executed more in 2016 than the rest of world combined'


China executed more people last year than the rest of the world combined, according to a human rights group.

Even as executions have dropped by more than a third globally, China's death penalty rate is 'shockingly high' although the full extent of the secretive practice is unknown, Amnesty International said.

While President Xi Jinping's much-hyped corruption crackdown has seen many high-ranking figures sent to jail, their death sentences have often been commuted.

Meanwhile ordinary people caught in the crosshairs of the law have not been so lucky, it said. The rights groups put the number of annual executions in China in 2016 in the thousands - but it didn't offer a more precise estimate due to a lack of accurate information.

China executed more people last year than the rest of the world combined, according to a human rights group (file picture shows a Chinese officer in Beijing's Tiananmen Square)

While President Xi Jinping's (pictured) much-hyped corruption crackdown has seen many high-ranking figures sent to jail, their death sentences have often been commuted

Farmers were more frequently sentenced to death than any other group in China, Amnesty said in a report that sought to lift the veil on the workings of the system.

China's ruling Communist Party regards execution figures as a state secret, meaning that hundreds of death sentences are omitted from the public database of court verdicts.

'China is really the only country that has such a complete regime of secrecy over executions,' Amnesty's East Asia director Nicholas Bequelin said at a press conference in Hong Kong.

'Probably the reason is the numbers are shockingly high', he added.

Around the rest of the world, executions fell by more than a third last year - but perversely a record number of people were sentenced to death, Amnesty said.

The group found there were 1,032 executions in 23 countries where the death penalty is in use, compared to 1,634 the previous year. But the statistics do not include China, where thousands are believed to be executed every year.

The report says 3,117 people were sentenced to death in 55 countries and there are currently 18,848 individuals on Death Row globally.

Abbas al Samea (pictured left) was one of three people executed in Bahrain in January for offences related to a political protest. Ali al-Nimr (right), faces execution in Saudi Arabia in connection with another protest

Although local media reports estimated that at least 931 individuals were executed between 2014 and 2016, only 85 of them were found in the online database, Amnesty said.

Estimates from other rights groups also puts the number of annual executions in China in the thousands.

From arrest to execution, the process is characterised by secrecy and speed: a 2016 report from US-based Dui Hua Foundation said China's average death row prisoner waits only two months before being executed.

Dui Hua estimates that there were approximately 2,000 executions in China in 2016, down from 2,400 in 2013 and some 4,000 in 2010 - following legal reforms that improved oversight.

Concerns over wrongful convictions have grown in recent years, fuelled by police reliance on forced confessions and the lack of effective defence in criminal trials.

Chinese courts have a conviction rate of 99.92 percent.

The nation's top judge, Zhou Qiang, apologised in 2015 for past miscarriages of justice, saying: 'We feel deep remorse for wrongful convictions'.

Public anger has mounted over miscarriages of justice, including a high-profile case that saw a teenager in Inner Mongolia wrongfully convicted and executed for rape and murder in 1996.

Hugjiltu was put to death two months after the woman was killed and was finally exonerated nine years later when a serial killer confessed to the crime.

Despite Chief Justice Zhou's call to 'correct' mistakes, experts say recent reforms have not been widely implemented.

'Coerced confessions are supposed to be excluded from evidence. In practice, however, the police have unchallenged discretion to... extract confessions by detaining and torturing suspects for long periods,' New York University professor Jerome Cohen told AFP.

Kulbhushan Jadhav (pictured) was sentenced to death on Monday. He is accused of sneaking across the border from Iran and spying on behalf of India

Even cases which provoke widespread anger and online petitions calling for death sentences to be revoked are not exempt.

Farmer Jia Jinglong was sentenced to death for killing a village official with a nail gun after his home was demolished weeks before his wedding day in 2013.

Jia was beaten and denied compensation for his house, the state-run Global Times reported, and the case prompted fury in China, where land seizures and forced evictions of villagers by local officials have become a major source of social resentment.

But despite the public outcry and calls from legal experts to commute his sentence, he was executed last November.

Amnesty's figures came out only hours after Pakistan sentenced an Indian naval officer to death for spying.

Kulbhushan Jadhav was arrested after the crossing border from Iran into Pakistan in March 2016 and has been convicted by a military tribunal of plotting terrorist acts in the province of Baluchistan and the port of Karachi.

General Qamar Javed Bajwa, the head of Pakistan's armed forces, has confirmed the death sentence but India said if it went ahead it would be 'premeditated murder'.

Amnesty's UK Director Kate Allen said: 'We fear that trade and security issues are trumping human rights, with UK officials damping down their objections to the death penalty when it comes to countries like Saudi Arabia or Bahrain.

'If governments in Beijing, Manama, Islamabad and Riyadh see there's very little public outrage over executions, then they're going to think they've got a green light to carry on killing.'

In Iran convicted killers can cheat the gallows if their victim's families intervene. This man was due to be executed but his victim's mother slapped him in the face and his sentence was commuted to life in prison STOCK PHOTO

Reprieve director Maya Foa told Mail Online: 'While the overall trend towards fewer executions is welcome, it's disturbing that certain governments are increasingly using the death penalty as a means of crushing dissent.

'Many of those with the worst record on executions are countries which British Prime Minister Theresa May has been actively courting in recent weeks – including Saudi Arabia, where juveniles face beheading and crucifixion, and Bahrain, where political protesters have been executed on the basis of forced 'confessions'.'

She added: 'The UK government must not let the trade agenda trump concerns for human rights. Mrs May must condemn the use of the death penalty as a tool of oppression.'

Executions in the United States fell to the lowest level in a quarter of a century, with only 20 people put to death last year.

Iran executed 567 people, a big decrease on the 977 who were killed the previous year, and the death toll fell in Pakistan too - from 326 to 87.

They do not include China, where executions are said to run to thousands annually, or Syria or Iraq where ISIS has killed hundreds, usually without any trials at all.

Methods of execution used around the world included beheading, hanging, lethal injection and shooting.

The number of countries in the world who have officially abolished the death penalty now stands at 141 although some, including Turkey and Russia, have seen renewed debates about restoring it.