Yoenis Cespedes Hits 3 Home Runs vs. Philadelphia Phillies
Yoenis Cespedes Hits 3 Home Runs vs. Philadelphia Phillies
New York Mets outfielder Yoenis Cespedes had one home run this season entering Tuesday's contest against the Philadelphia Phillies . He had four a mere five innings later. The slugger hit home runs in the first, fourth and fifth innings of Tuesday's game. The first-inning blast was a three-run homer that gave the Mets a commanding lead out of the gate in what turned into a 14-4 victory. Cespedes finished 4-for-6 with five RBI and three runs, and the Mets as a whole hit seven home runs. Cespedes is the 5th active player to hit 3 HR at Citizens Bank Park. The others: Charlie Blackmon, Ryan Braun, Jayson Werth &amp; Jose Reyes Cespedes was one home run shy of the all-time record of four in a single game. According to MLB.com , 16 players in league history have drilled four long balls in a game, with the Texas Rangers ' Josh Hamilton the most recent to do so in 2012. ESPN Stats & Info noted Cespedes became the first Mets player in team history with multiple three-homer games. While he was a power hitter for the Oakland Athletics , Boston Red Sox and Detroit Tigers as well with more than 20 homers every season of his career, he has taken another step since New York acquired him via trade in 2015. He hit 17 home runs in 57 games for the Mets in 2015 on his way to a career-high 35 and followed that up with 31 last year.

Drew Hallowell/Getty Images

New York Mets outfielder Yoenis Cespedes had one home run this season entering Tuesday's contest against the Philadelphia Phillies.

He had four a mere five innings later.

The slugger hit home runs in the first, fourth and fifth innings of Tuesday's game. The first-inning blast was a three-run homer that gave the Mets a commanding lead out of the gate in what turned into a 14-4 victory.

Cespedes finished 4-for-6 with five RBI and three runs, and the Mets as a whole hit seven home runs.

Jayson Stark of ESPN.com pointed out Philadelphia's Citizens Bank Park is familiar with the accomplishment:

Cespedes was one home run shy of the all-time record of four in a single game. According to MLB.com, 16 players in league history have drilled four long balls in a game, with the Texas Rangers' Josh Hamilton the most recent to do so in 2012.

ESPN Stats & Info noted Cespedes became the first Mets player in team history with multiple three-homer games.

While he was a power hitter for the Oakland Athletics, Boston Red Sox and Detroit Tigers as well with more than 20 homers every season of his career, he has taken another step since New York acquired him via trade in 2015. He hit 17 home runs in 57 games for the Mets in 2015 on his way to a career-high 35 and followed that up with 31 last year.

For more news, rumors and related stories about Yoenis Cespedes, the New York Mets and the MLB, check out the MLB and Mets streams on Bleacher Report's app.