Why Building Community Is Way Better For Your Career Than Networking
Why Building Community Is Way Better For Your Career Than Networking
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Paulina Guditch       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Whether you want to launch a startup or land your dream job, networking is critical to your success. Although most of us realize this, we still are not networking effectively. Hint: If your idea of networking involves handing out business cards like candy and talking about yourself to anyone who will listen, you’re doing it wrong. At brunchwork , we recently interviewed Matthew Brimer, one of the most well-connected entrepreneurs in New York City, over farm-to-table brunch and mimosas. Brimer and Radha Agrawal started Daybreaker, the morning alcohol-free dance party , as a small experiment. They invited 300 of their friends to participate, and hosted in the basement of The Coffee Shop in Union Square. Today, Daybreaker has grown into a movement with almost 350,000 members and events in over 15 global cities. brunchwork General Assembly and Daybreaker cofounder Matthew Brimer speaking at brunchwork. (Source: brunchwork) Brimer is also the cofounder of General Assembly , a company that is reinventing education with courses in tech, design and entrepreneurship in 20 campuses worldwide. He credits much of his success to his community, and shared three strategies that you can start using today to build your own. ‘Networking’ has mixed and somewhat negative connotations. The word is transactional in nature. There is an expectation that by shaking hands, pitching yourself and handing out your business card, you’ll get a job, an investment or a new client. When done effectively, networking is all about community building, not making transactions. Your goals should be meeting interesting people and building relationships. One day, those connections may lead to greater opportunities, but that shouldn’t be your main focus when meeting someone new. brunchwork brunchwork members meeting and building relationships. (Source: brunchwork) "I was able to build the General Assembly community, because I was not asking people: Do you want a GA membership? Do you want to take a class?" It is hard to build relationships at typical networking events because most attendees have the same mindset: What can you offer me? Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Whether you want to launch a startup or land your dream job, networking is critical to your success. Although most of us realize this, we still are not networking effectively. Hint: If your idea of networking involves handing out business cards like candy and talking about yourself to anyone who will listen, you’re doing it wrong.

At brunchwork, we recently interviewed Matthew Brimer, one of the most well-connected entrepreneurs in New York City, over farm-to-table brunch and mimosas.

Brimer and Radha Agrawal started Daybreaker, the morning alcohol-free dance party, as a small experiment. They invited 300 of their friends to participate, and hosted in the basement of The Coffee Shop in Union Square. Today, Daybreaker has grown into a movement with almost 350,000 members and events in over 15 global cities.

brunchwork

Brimer is also the cofounder of General Assembly, a company that is reinventing education with courses in tech, design and entrepreneurship in 20 campuses worldwide. He credits much of his success to his community, and shared three strategies that you can start using today to build your own.

1. CHANGE YOUR DEFINITION OF NETWORKING

‘Networking’ has mixed and somewhat negative connotations. The word is transactional in nature. There is an expectation that by shaking hands, pitching yourself and handing out your business card, you’ll get a job, an investment or a new client.

When done effectively, networking is all about community building, not making transactions. Your goals should be meeting interesting people and building relationships. One day, those connections may lead to greater opportunities, but that shouldn’t be your main focus when meeting someone new.

brunchwork

"I was able to build the General Assembly community, because I was not asking people: Do you want a GA membership? Do you want to take a class?"

It is hard to build relationships at typical networking events because most attendees have the same mindset: What can you offer me?