Spicer clarifies Hitler remarks as Pelosi calls for his firing
Spicer clarifies Hitler remarks as Pelosi calls for his firing
White House Spicer clarifies Hitler remarks as Pelosi calls for his firing White House press secretary Sean Spicer pauses while talking to the media during the daily press briefing at the White House in Washington, Tuesday, April 11, 2017. Spicer discussed Syria, Trump's 2016 tax returns, the Easter Egg Roll and other topics. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)
	                        
	                        	 (Copyright 2017 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.) White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer attempted Tuesday to clarify his statement that Adolf Hitler "didn't even sink to using chemical weapons," as the top House Democrat called for his dismissal. Spicer was discussing last week's chemical weapons attack in Syria, which the administration is blaming on that country's President Bashar Assad. "We didn't use chemical weapons in World War II," said Spicer, adding that "someone as despicable as Hitler ... didn't even sink to using chemical weapons." After the briefing, Spicer emailed a statement to reporters: "In no way was I trying to lessen the horrendous nature of the Holocaust. I was trying to draw a distinction of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weapons on population centers. Any attack on innocent people is reprehensible and inexcusable."  House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., accused Spicer of "downplaying the horror of the Holocaust." "Sean Spicer must be fired, and the President must immediately disavow his spokesman’s statements," Pelosi said in a statement. "Either he is speaking for the President, or the President should have known better than to hire him." When asked to clarify his remarks during the briefing, Spicer tried to differentiate between Hitler's actions and the gas attack on Syrian civilians. "I think when you come to sarin gas, there was no, he (Hitler) was not using the gas on his own people the same way that Assad is doing," Spicer said. "There was clearly ... I understand your point, thank you. There was not ... He brought them into the Holocaust center I understand that." "I appreciate the clarification. That was not the intent," he added. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis touched on the issue later Tuesday when discussing missile strikes launched by the U.S. against one of Assad's airfields in response to the chemical attack. "Even in World War II, chemical weapons were not used on battlefields," Mattis said. "Since World War I, there has been an international convention on this. To stand idly by, when that convention is violated, that is what we had to take action on, urgently, in our own vital interest." Spicer's comments came on the second day of Passover and a day after the White House held a Seder dinner marking the emancipation of the Jewish people, a tradition started during the Obama administration. According to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, the Nazis experimented with poison gas in late 1939 with the killing of killing of mental patients, which was termed "euthanasia." It was the second day in a row in which Spicer appeared to have trouble articulating the president's foreign policy at a critical time. On Monday, the White House was forced to walk back remarks Spicer made from the podium that the use of barrel bombs by Assad's government might lead to further military action by the United States. Spicer had appeared to draw a new red line for the Trump administration when he told reporters that if a country gases a baby or it puts "a barrel bomb into innocent people, I think you will see a response from this president." Until Monday the administration had maintained that last week's airstrikes was in response to the Syrian government's use of chemical weapons against its own citizens. A White House spokesman said later that "nothing has changed in our posture" and the president retains the option to act if it's in the national interest.

White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer attempted Tuesday to clarify his statement that Adolf Hitler "didn't even sink to using chemical weapons," as the top House Democrat called for his dismissal.

Spicer was discussing last week's chemical weapons attack in Syria, which the administration is blaming on that country's President Bashar Assad.

"We didn't use chemical weapons in World War II," said Spicer, adding that "someone as despicable as Hitler ... didn't even sink to using chemical weapons."

After the briefing, Spicer emailed a statement to reporters: "In no way was I trying to lessen the horrendous nature of the Holocaust. I was trying to draw a distinction of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weapons on population centers. Any attack on innocent people is reprehensible and inexcusable."



House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., accused Spicer of "downplaying the horror of the Holocaust."

"Sean Spicer must be fired, and the President must immediately disavow his spokesman’s statements," Pelosi said in a statement. "Either he is speaking for the President, or the President should have known better than to hire him."

When asked to clarify his remarks during the briefing, Spicer tried to differentiate between Hitler's actions and the gas attack on Syrian civilians.

"I think when you come to sarin gas, there was no, he (Hitler) was not using the gas on his own people the same way that Assad is doing," Spicer said. "There was clearly ... I understand your point, thank you. There was not ... He brought them into the Holocaust center I understand that."

"I appreciate the clarification. That was not the intent," he added.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis touched on the issue later Tuesday when discussing missile strikes launched by the U.S. against one of Assad's airfields in response to the chemical attack.

"Even in World War II, chemical weapons were not used on battlefields," Mattis said. "Since World War I, there has been an international convention on this. To stand idly by, when that convention is violated, that is what we had to take action on, urgently, in our own vital interest."

Spicer's comments came on the second day of Passover and a day after the White House held a Seder dinner marking the emancipation of the Jewish people, a tradition started during the Obama administration. According to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, the Nazis experimented with poison gas in late 1939 with the killing of killing of mental patients, which was termed "euthanasia."

It was the second day in a row in which Spicer appeared to have trouble articulating the president's foreign policy at a critical time.

On Monday, the White House was forced to walk back remarks Spicer made from the podium that the use of barrel bombs by Assad's government might lead to further military action by the United States.

Spicer had appeared to draw a new red line for the Trump administration when he told reporters that if a country gases a baby or it puts "a barrel bomb into innocent people, I think you will see a response from this president."

Until Monday the administration had maintained that last week's airstrikes was in response to the Syrian government's use of chemical weapons against its own citizens. A White House spokesman said later that "nothing has changed in our posture" and the president retains the option to act if it's in the national interest.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.