Samsung Rushed Galaxy S8 Despite Design Flaw, Says Analyst
Samsung Rushed Galaxy S8 Despite Design Flaw, Says Analyst
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jean Baptiste Su       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. DJ Koh, the president of Samsung's mobile communications business introduced the new Galaxy S8 during a launch event, late March in New York City, despite a serious design flaw that undermines the flagship device's user experience and security. (Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images) It's been quite an impressive past few months in the smartphone world. Most of the top Google Android smartphone makers have now unveiled - at CES 2017 in January and Mobile World Congress (MWC) in February - their mass-market flagship device for the year including Huawei (P10), LG (G6), Samsung (Galaxy S8) and Sony (Xperia XZ Premium). And so far the superphone that impressed us the most is Samsung’s S8. The look of the Korean manufacturer latest Android device is simply gorgeous and a clear step up from its predecessor, the Galaxy S7 Edge, with its narrow ‘ Infinity Display ’, a new curved and edgeless screen that covers the entire front of the device which still feels confortable in the hand despite being taller. The only let down in Samsung’s overall design was the misplacement of the fingerprint scanner that was moved to the back of the device, adjacent to the camera lens. An incredibly awkward and unnatural position, especially considering that Samsung have gotten everything else right with this phone. Since the fingerprint sensor is located so high up on this already tall phone, it’s actually hard to reach it without holding the device with both hands and sometimes requiring us to turn the smartphone around just to make sure we actually hit the fingerprint scanner and not the heartbeat sensor, which is symmetrically located on the other side of the camera. These contorsions get even worse with the taller S8+! To make matters worse, the fingerprint scanner is located so close to the camera that it’s almost impossible not to touch the camera lens every time you want to unlock the phone, leaving smudges on the lens. Admitting the seriousness of this design flaw, Samsung decided to display a warning message to remind users to regularly clean the camera lens. Indeed, what’s the point having one of the best smartphone camera if all the shots are blurred because of dirty and oily fingers! Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

It's been quite an impressive past few months in the smartphone world.

Most of the top Google Android smartphone makers have now unveiled - at CES 2017 in January and Mobile World Congress (MWC) in February - their mass-market flagship device for the year including Huawei (P10), LG (G6), Samsung (Galaxy S8) and Sony (Xperia XZ Premium).

And so far the superphone that impressed us the most is Samsung’s S8.

The look of the Korean manufacturer latest Android device is simply gorgeous and a clear step up from its predecessor, the Galaxy S7 Edge, with its narrow ‘Infinity Display’, a new curved and edgeless screen that covers the entire front of the device which still feels confortable in the hand despite being taller.

A nearly perfect Android device…

The only let down in Samsung’s overall design was the misplacement of the fingerprint scanner that was moved to the back of the device, adjacent to the camera lens.

An incredibly awkward and unnatural position, especially considering that Samsung have gotten everything else right with this phone.

Since the fingerprint sensor is located so high up on this already tall phone, it’s actually hard to reach it without holding the device with both hands and sometimes requiring us to turn the smartphone around just to make sure we actually hit the fingerprint scanner and not the heartbeat sensor, which is symmetrically located on the other side of the camera.

These contorsions get even worse with the taller S8+!

To make matters worse, the fingerprint scanner is located so close to the camera that it’s almost impossible not to touch the camera lens every time you want to unlock the phone, leaving smudges on the lens.

Admitting the seriousness of this design flaw, Samsung decided to display a warning message to remind users to regularly clean the camera lens.

Indeed, what’s the point having one of the best smartphone camera if all the shots are blurred because of dirty and oily fingers!