Project Include Has a Simple Starting Point for Workplace Diversity: Better Data
Project Include Has a Simple Starting Point for Workplace Diversity: Better Data
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Katheryn Thayer       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Kapor Center/Ashleigh Richelle The cofounders of Project Include         For more recommendations and insights, visit the Project Include website . Follow me on Twitter @KATontap Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Kapor Center/Ashleigh Richelle

The underrepresentation of women and minorities is a documented issue in the tech industry, yet many workers have trouble seeing it.

Women (47% of the total U.S. labor force) fill 28% of tech sector jobs, and African Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans (31% of workforce) fill 12-15% of tech sector jobs, according to Intel and Dalberg.

Yet 83% of tech employees say they work at diverse companies, and 94% gave the tech industry, their companies and their teams a passing grade for diversity, according to Atlassian’s 2017 State of Diversity Report.

Project Include, launched last May, is a group that hopes to help the industry get more realistic — and more accountable — with diversity assessments. The 8 cofounders, who include notable inclusion advocates such as Tracy Chou and Ellen Pao, have made a mission of compiling resources to help CEOs and management teams diversify.

One of the group’s core recommendations is for companies to track a set of metrics, included below, that addresses not just hiring, but also workplace issues like bonuses, equity and conflict resolution.

“You can’t manage what you don’t measure,” cofounder Ellen Pao said over email. The group hopes to make public diversity reports standard practice, and Pao points out that official reports can help companies sideline negative rumors and assumptions. “Diversity reports allow companies to be judged on facts and not on what people will assume by their absence or on word of mouth.”

These are the metrics Project Include recommends leaders track by demographic:

Employees overall, by function, seniority, and tenure

Employee status (full-time / part-time / contractor)

Management and leadership Employees reporting to female managers Employees reporting to managers from underrepresented groups

Salary Raises and bonuses

Equity, for all-time and 12 months trailing Employee equity pool, for all-time and 12 months trailing Investor equity pool Vesting rates

Board of Directors

Candidate pools and hiring funnels, by role

Voluntary and involuntary attrition rates

Promotion rates

Complaints (formal and informal) Complaint resolution status



For more recommendations and insights, visit the Project Include website.

Follow me on Twitter @KATontap