Sean Spicer Steps in It by Comparing Assad to Hitler
Sean Spicer Steps in It by Comparing Assad to Hitler
On Tuesday afternoon, White House press secretary Sean Spicer stepped in some shit when he appeared to imply that Syrian president Bashar al-Assad was worse than Hitler. He also stated, inaccurately , that Hitler never used chemical weapons, either during WWII or against his own people. What he probably meant (although, after four separate clarifications in a single hour, it was somehow still unclear) was that Hitler didn't use them on the battlefield. Either way, Spicer was the No. 1 trending topic on Twitter for several hours. "We didn’t use chemical weapons in World War II. You know, you had someone as despicable as Hitler who didn’t even sink to using chemical weapons," Spicer said. "So you have to, if you are Russia, ask yourself: Is this a country and a regime that you want to align yourself with?” As you learned in social studies, or maybe while watching before it totally lost its shit and started airing shows about aliens making contact with ancient civilizations, Hitler oversaw a number of concentration/extermination camps where millions of Jews, Slavs, Roma, dissidents, people with disabilities, Jehovah's Witnesses, homosexuals, and others were gassed to death. Later on Spicer was asked to clarify his remarks, and maintained there was a difference between Hitler's and Assad's usage of poisonous gases. "I think when you come to sarin gas, [Hitler] was not using the gas on his own people the same way that Assad is doing," Spicer stated. The press secretary then mentioned "Holocaust centers," by which he almost certainly meant Nazi death camps. That didn't go over well with people either, and it also began its own Twitter trend. After the briefing, Spicer attempted to fix things with a statement, saying: “In no way was I trying to lessen the horrendous nature of the Holocaust. I was trying to draw a distinction of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weapons on population centers. Any attack on innocent people is reprehensible and inexcusable.” Spicer's comments sparked outrage, which you're free to point out isn't unusual. Here's the followup @PressSec comment about Assad & Hitler. I've rewound it 4 times. Did he say "Holocaust center?" https://t.co/oVQAWmm570 Apparently @seanspicer thinks concentration camps were called "Holocaust centers"?? pic.twitter.com/1X8QYWTffq Sean Spicer would show up to the gallows & be like "does anyone know when the neck hugging ceremony starts?" Honestly, "holocaust centers" is weirder than anything else he said. Sean Spicer says Hitler didn't use chemical weapons....do gas chambers to kill millions of Jews count? Yikes... Reason we know time travel won't be invented in our lifetimes is that an older Sean Spicer didn't suddenly appear and scream "Stop Talking!" https://t.co/fwFIgDDN05 In case you didn't get to see it, I have the footage from Sean Spicer's press briefing today. pic.twitter.com/v5JqUgxfK0 Sean Spicer saying during a White House briefing that Hitler never used chemical weapons is one of my biggest WTF moments of the year so far "Even Hitler didn't have a private email server." -Sean Spicer, probably. This is the day Sean Spicer became Press Secretary. Hitler "was not using the gas on his own people," says Sean Spicer, writing German Jews out of history. I hope @PressSec takes time to visit @HolocaustMuseum . It's a few blocks away. https://t.co/24fNoMUyS8 The Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect (not an organization you'd want to criticize any Holocaust-related statement you might make) called for Spicer to be fired: . @POTUS  @realDonaldTrump MUST FIRE SEAN SPICER NOW FOR ENGAGING IN HOLOCAUST DENIAL. OUR STATEMENT BELOW. #Antisemitism  #NeverAgain  pic.twitter.com/4dB9ESCaZr

On Tuesday afternoon, White House press secretary Sean Spicer stepped in some shit when he appeared to imply that Syrian president Bashar al-Assad was worse than Hitler. He also stated, inaccurately, that Hitler never used chemical weapons, either during WWII or against his own people. What he probably meant (although, after four separate clarifications in a single hour, it was somehow still unclear) was that Hitler didn't use them on the battlefield. Either way, Spicer was the No. 1 trending topic on Twitter for several hours.

"We didn’t use chemical weapons in World War II. You know, you had someone as despicable as Hitler who didn’t even sink to using chemical weapons," Spicer said. "So you have to, if you are Russia, ask yourself: Is this a country and a regime that you want to align yourself with?”

As you learned in social studies, or maybe while watching The History Channel before it totally lost its shit and started airing shows about aliens making contact with ancient civilizations, Hitler oversaw a number of concentration/extermination camps where millions of Jews, Slavs, Roma, dissidents, people with disabilities, Jehovah's Witnesses, homosexuals, and others were gassed to death.

Later on Spicer was asked to clarify his remarks, and maintained there was a difference between Hitler's and Assad's usage of poisonous gases. "I think when you come to sarin gas, [Hitler] was not using the gas on his own people the same way that Assad is doing," Spicer stated. The press secretary then mentioned "Holocaust centers," by which he almost certainly meant Nazi death camps. That didn't go over well with people either, and it also began its own Twitter trend.

After the briefing, Spicer attempted to fix things with a statement, saying:

“In no way was I trying to lessen the horrendous nature of the Holocaust. I was trying to draw a distinction of the tactic of using airplanes to drop chemical weapons on population centers. Any attack on innocent people is reprehensible and inexcusable.”

Spicer's comments sparked outrage, which you're free to point out isn't unusual.

Here's the followup @PressSec comment about Assad & Hitler. I've rewound it 4 times. Did he say "Holocaust center?" https://t.co/oVQAWmm570 — Brian Stelter (@brianstelter) April 11, 2017

Apparently @seanspicer thinks concentration camps were called "Holocaust centers"?? pic.twitter.com/1X8QYWTffq — Andrew Kirell (@AndrewKirell) April 11, 2017

Sean Spicer would show up to the gallows & be like "does anyone know when the neck hugging ceremony starts?" — Aparna Nancherla (@aparnapkin) April 11, 2017

Honestly, "holocaust centers" is weirder than anything else he said. — Christopher Hayes (@chrislhayes) April 11, 2017

Sean Spicer says Hitler didn't use chemical weapons....do gas chambers to kill millions of Jews count? Yikes... — Katie Pavlich (@KatiePavlich) April 11, 2017

Reason we know time travel won't be invented in our lifetimes is that an older Sean Spicer didn't suddenly appear and scream "Stop Talking!" https://t.co/fwFIgDDN05 — Jonah Goldberg (@JonahNRO) April 11, 2017

In case you didn't get to see it, I have the footage from Sean Spicer's press briefing today. pic.twitter.com/v5JqUgxfK0 — Caroline O. (@RVAwonk) April 11, 2017

Sean Spicer saying during a White House briefing that Hitler never used chemical weapons is one of my biggest WTF moments of the year so far — Seth Abramson (@SethAbramson) April 11, 2017

"Even Hitler didn't have a private email server." -Sean Spicer, probably. — Wil Wheaton (@wilw) April 11, 2017

This is the day Sean Spicer became Press Secretary. — Scott Conroy (@ScottFConroy) April 11, 2017

Hitler "was not using the gas on his own people," says Sean Spicer, writing German Jews out of history. — Spencer Ackerman (@attackerman) April 11, 2017

I hope @PressSec takes time to visit @HolocaustMuseum. It's a few blocks away. https://t.co/24fNoMUyS8 — Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) April 11, 2017

The Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect (not an organization you'd want to criticize any Holocaust-related statement you might make) called for Spicer to be fired: