How Much Do You Actually Know About Dogs?
How Much Do You Actually Know About Dogs?
Dogs do sweat, but only through the pads of their feet!      This dog is the Alaskan Malamute! The other dog is a Siberian Husky.     Dogs cannot see all the colours of the spectrum, but they don't see everything in black and white! Dogs can see yellow and blue , so their world isn't greyscale!     This is a Boston terrier! The other dog is a French bulldog.     Chow-chows do have blue tongues!     The tallest dog breed, on average, is the Irish Wolfhound ! However, though on average Irish Wolfhounds are the tallest, the tallest individual dog was a Great Dane called Zeus , who measured 44" (or 1.118m) tall.     It's a Shiba Inu! Unfortunately, "doge" is not the officially recognised name for this breed.     This is the Samoyed! The other dog is a Great Pyrenees.     It's true! Dogs prefer to poo in alignment with the Earth's magnetic field.  No one really knows why, exactly.     This is the Pomeranian! The other dog is a Japanese Spitz.  How Much Do You Actually Know About Dogs? Maybe you're a cat person, or you're overwhelmed by the sheer and beautiful variation of dogs in the world, but there is definitely room for improvement! Take quizzes and chill with the BuzzFeed app. You're not too fussed about dog breeds, probably because you appreciate all dogs equally with little concern to their specifics. Take quizzes and chill with the BuzzFeed app. You can tell the difference between your Shiba Inu and your Akitas, your Boston Terriers and French bulldogs. There's not a dog breed you can't identify. Take quizzes and chill with the BuzzFeed app.

The other dog is a Japanese Spitz.

This is the Pomeranian!

No one really knows why, exactly.

The other dog is a Great Pyrenees.

This is the Samoyed!

Unfortunately, "doge" is not the officially recognised name for this breed.

However, though on average Irish Wolfhounds are the tallest, the tallest individual dog was a Great Dane called Zeus , who measured 44" (or 1.118m) tall.

The tallest dog breed, on average, is the Irish Wolfhound !

The other dog is a French bulldog.

Dogs can see yellow and blue , so their world isn't greyscale!

Dogs cannot see all the colours of the spectrum, but they don't see everything in black and white!

The other dog is a Siberian Husky.

This dog is the Alaskan Malamute!

Dogs do sweat, but only through the pads of their feet!

How Much Do You Actually Know About Dogs?

You're not yet proficient in dog facts Maybe you're a cat person, or you're overwhelmed by the sheer and beautiful variation of dogs in the world, but there is definitely room for improvement! Tap to play GIF Tap to play GIF youtube.com

Take quizzes and chill with the BuzzFeed app. Get the app

You have a pretty solid knowledge of dogs You're not too fussed about dog breeds, probably because you appreciate all dogs equally with little concern to their specifics. Tap to play GIF Tap to play GIF reddit.com

Take quizzes and chill with the BuzzFeed app. Get the app

You're a professional dog-spotter You can tell the difference between your Shiba Inu and your Akitas, your Boston Terriers and French bulldogs. There's not a dog breed you can't identify. Tap to play GIF Tap to play GIF reddit.com

Take quizzes and chill with the BuzzFeed app. Get the app