Dailymotion to Reboot This Summer With Focus on Premium Content
Dailymotion to Reboot This Summer With Focus on Premium Content
Dailymotion to Reboot This Summer With Focus on Premium Content  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Dailymotion, the Vivendi-owned video streaming platform that has long played second fiddle to YouTube, has announced it will re-launch in June with a beefed-up focus on premium -- rather than user-generated -- content. The site is currently working on expanding its lineup of content partners, which already includes Universal Music Group, another Vivendi property. CEO Maxime Saada told that users will still be able to post their own videos, but that that type of content will not be the "main purpose of the platform" any more. Saada said the goal of the rebootÂ will be to tap into its already-sizable audience -- currently 300 million unique monthly visitors -- to promote a curated experience of professional content instead of the current hodgepodge. As part of the move, Dailymotion is rebuilding its current apps and video player. When it launches, the new site will be available on iOS, Android and Apple TV. Only premium content will be monetized, the company said.  Vivendi has not determined when UMG music videos will begin surfacing on Dailymotion; currently they are only licensed to appear on Vevo, which in turn distributes them through YouTube. (UMG holds a 31 percent stake in Vevo.) Since taking over at the company in January 2016, Saada has been tasked with accelerating the synergies between Dailymotion and Vivendi's other businesses, which also include French media giant Canal+ and digital gaming company Gameloft.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Dailymotion, the Vivendi-owned video streaming platform that has long played second fiddle to YouTube, has announced it will re-launch in June with a beefed-up focus on premium -- rather than user-generated -- content. The site is currently working on expanding its lineup of content partners, which already includes Universal Music Group, another Vivendi property.

CEO Maxime Saada told Variety that users will still be able to post their own videos, but that that type of content will not be the "main purpose of the platform" any more. Saada said the goal of the rebootÂ will be to tap into its already-sizable audience -- currently 300 million unique monthly visitors -- to promote a curated experience of professional content instead of the current hodgepodge.

As part of the move, Dailymotion is rebuilding its current apps and video player. When it launches, the new site will be available on iOS, Android and Apple TV. Only premium content will be monetized, the company said.

Vivendi has not determined when UMG music videos will begin surfacing on Dailymotion; currently they are only licensed to appear on Vevo, which in turn distributes them through YouTube. (UMG holds a 31 percent stake in Vevo.) Since taking over at the company in January 2016, Saada has been tasked with accelerating the synergies between Dailymotion and Vivendi's other businesses, which also include French media giant Canal+ and digital gaming company Gameloft.