Young Thug Avoids Battery Charges After Allegedly Slapping a Woman
Young Thug Avoids Battery Charges After Allegedly Slapping a Woman 
Young Thug is dodging criminal charges left and right. The Atlanta rapper has reportedly avoided battery charges after he was accused of slapping a woman outside of a nightclub last month. According to , the case was thrown out due to a lack of evidence. The case stems from a March 5 incident that occurred at Atlanta nightclub Palace. Thugger’s former employee Valerie Raven claimed she was in a verbal dispute with the rapper’s fiancée, Jerrika Karlae. During the argument, Raven said Thugger stepped in and slapped her across the left side of her face. She then contacted authorities, but Thug and Karlae fled the scene before officers arrived. Raven ultimately filed a battery report; however, law enforcement said they reviewed footage taken in the parking lot and saw no evidence of the rapper making physical contact with the woman. Earlier this month, Thug also avoided felony drug charges stemming from a 2015 raid. The rapper’s lawyers argued officers conducted an illegal raid of Thug's Georgia home, as they did not have a proper warrant. Despite the discovery of cocaine, marijuana, and guns in the house, the district attorney decided to drop the felony charges. Will his winning streak continue? The rapper will attend a plea hearing later this month for a speeding ticket issued in 2014, according to Fulton County court records. Though it's only a misdemeanor charge, we'll see of Thug and his legal team can find a way out of this one.

Young Thug is dodging criminal charges left and right.

The Atlanta rapper has reportedly avoided battery charges after he was accused of slapping a woman outside of a nightclub last month. According to TMZ, the case was thrown out due to a lack of evidence.

The case stems from a March 5 incident that occurred at Atlanta nightclub Palace. Thugger’s former employee Valerie Raven claimed she was in a verbal dispute with the rapper’s fiancée, Jerrika Karlae. During the argument, Raven said Thugger stepped in and slapped her across the left side of her face. She then contacted authorities, but Thug and Karlae fled the scene before officers arrived.

Raven ultimately filed a battery report; however, law enforcement said they reviewed footage taken in the parking lot and saw no evidence of the rapper making physical contact with the woman.

Earlier this month, Thug also avoided felony drug charges stemming from a 2015 raid. The rapper’s lawyers argued officers conducted an illegal raid of Thug's Georgia home, as they did not have a proper warrant. Despite the discovery of cocaine, marijuana, and guns in the house, the district attorney decided to drop the felony charges.

Will his winning streak continue? The rapper will attend a plea hearing later this month for a speeding ticket issued in 2014, according to Fulton County court records. Though it's only a misdemeanor charge, we'll see of Thug and his legal team can find a way out of this one.