Shocking video shows moment drink-driving mother flies 14ft into the air with toddler in the back seat
Shocking video shows moment drink-driving mother flies 14ft into the air with toddler in the back seat
Popular videos    A shot-by-shot breakdown of the Thor: Ragnarok trailer      Exclusive clip from the  Gemma Arterton-starring drama Their Finest      Death Grips side-project's The I.L.Y.’s release surreal new video      Pro-Trump Stephen Baldwin has not spoken to brother Alec Baldwin   A drink-driving mother who smashed into a concrete roundabout island and launched her car 14ft into the air while her toddler was in the back has been jailed. Tania Chikwature, 32, was more than three times the drink-drive limit when she lost control of her Nissan Qashqai as she drove to a wake, Peterborough Magistrates' Court heard. The defendant drank vodka the night before and a vodka bottle was found in the car, said Corinne Soanders-Silk, prosecuting. A lorry driver who witnessed the crash said he did not think those in the car would survive it, and that the car cleared the roundabout and hit a tree before landing on its roof. Read more British man charged after US gamer is shot by police following hoax Manchester police deal with 31 Spice-related calls in 24 hours Tributes pour in for hijabi police officer who died in Egypt bombing Chikwature's 20-month-old son was unhurt in the crash which was captured on dashcam footage as she illegally overtook a lorry on the approach to a roundabout on the A606 in Peterborough. The defendant sustained unspecified injuries. Chikwature, of Butterfly Way in Coventry, admitted drink-driving and dangerous driving at an earlier hearing. District judge Ken Sheraton jailed her for 26 weeks and ordered a three-year driving ban. “It's only by luck and certainly by no judgment of yours that you're not here today facing far more serious charges, and you're fortunate that somebody didn't die in that accident,” he told the defendant. Ms Soanders-Silk said Chikwature was seen overtaking an HGV on the wrong side of solid white lines. Lorry driver Richard Jones said, in a written statement, that he saw the car approaching “at speed” in his mirrors and had to brake to allow the car to complete the overtake manoeuvre. “The car seemed out of control and from the speed it came past me I knew it wasn't making the roundabout,” he said. “I saw it veer right and mount the concrete roundabout. I remember thinking as it launched into the air, 'they're not going to make it'.” He said the car went 14ft in the air. “It cleared the roundabout, hitting a tree as it flew over it,” he said. “I could see utter devastation.” The toddler was freed from the vehicle by a passing motorist, and Chikwature was freed by firefighters. Ms Soanders-Silk said that, apart from being shocked, the toddler “thankfully was unhurt”. She said the defendant refused to provide police with a breath sample at the scene, but agreed to give a blood sample four hours later in hospital. Police, using a back calculation, found she had 246 mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood at the time of the incident. The legal limit is 80 mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood. “She said she had been drinking vodka from 9pm to 1am the night before,” said Ms Soanders-Silk. “She said she didn't feel drunk.” UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    10 April 2017   A girls looks at floral tributes for PC Keith Palmer during the funeral parade outside Parliament in London   EPA     10 April 2017   Police officers line the route in Southwark as the funeral procession of PC Keith Palmer makes its way to Southwark Cathedral   Getty Images     10 April 2017   Pall bearers carry the coffin of PC Keith Palmer, in to Southwark Cathedral   Getty Images     9 April 2017   John Boyega attends The Olivier Awards 2017 at Royal Albert Hall in London   Getty Images     9 April 2017   Amanda Holden attends The Olivier Awards 2017 at Royal Albert Hall in London   Getty Images     9 April 2017   Kenneth Branagh and Lindsay Brunnock attend The Olivier Awards 2017 at the Royal Albert Hall   Getty Images     6 April 2017   London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app   PA wire     6 April 2017   London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app.   PA wire     6 April 2017   The cocaine haul in the fishing boat The Bianca, as her skipper Michael McDermott will be sentenced after he tried to smuggle more than £80 million of cocaine into the UK   PA wire     6 April 2017   Jon Platt arrives at the Supreme Court in central London with his wife Sally where the Court will rule on the much-anticipated legal case on an unauthorised holiday during school term time   PA wire     6 April 2017   Bunny Penny, the Playboy Club Bunny of the Year wears an edible chocolate corset and bunny ears at Marble Arch in London   PA wire     6 April 2017   105-year-old Jack Reynolds receives his Guinness World Record certificate after riding the Twistersaurus rollercoaster to raise money for the Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Rutland Air Ambulance fund at Flamingo Land in Malton, North Yorkshire.  Reynolds, who broke a Guinness World Record by becoming the oldest person in the world to get a tattoo at the age of 104, said he was not nervous, particularly after flying in a Tiger Moth plane last year   PA wire     6 April 2017   Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, leaves after meeting Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May inside 10 Downing Street   Reuters     5 April 2017   Member of the European Parliament and former leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage wears socks with Union Jack flag at the European Parliament in Strasbourg   Getty Images     5 April 2017    Getty Images     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     1 April 2017   Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London   Ben Stevens/PA Wire  Chikwature, a married stay-at-home mother, denied she had an alcohol problem. “She did state 'I could have killed my son',” said Ms Soanders-Silk. Chikwature was jailed for 26 weeks for dangerous driving and 12 weeks for drink-driving, to be served concurrently. She was banned from driving for three years and ordered to pay £115 costs. More about: drink-driving

A drink-driving mother who smashed into a concrete roundabout island and launched her car 14ft into the air while her toddler was in the back has been jailed.

Tania Chikwature, 32, was more than three times the drink-drive limit when she lost control of her Nissan Qashqai as she drove to a wake, Peterborough Magistrates' Court heard.

The defendant drank vodka the night before and a vodka bottle was found in the car, said Corinne Soanders-Silk, prosecuting.

A lorry driver who witnessed the crash said he did not think those in the car would survive it, and that the car cleared the roundabout and hit a tree before landing on its roof.

Chikwature's 20-month-old son was unhurt in the crash which was captured on dashcam footage as she illegally overtook a lorry on the approach to a roundabout on the A606 in Peterborough.

The defendant sustained unspecified injuries.

Chikwature, of Butterfly Way in Coventry, admitted drink-driving and dangerous driving at an earlier hearing.

District judge Ken Sheraton jailed her for 26 weeks and ordered a three-year driving ban.

“It's only by luck and certainly by no judgment of yours that you're not here today facing far more serious charges, and you're fortunate that somebody didn't die in that accident,” he told the defendant.

Ms Soanders-Silk said Chikwature was seen overtaking an HGV on the wrong side of solid white lines.

Lorry driver Richard Jones said, in a written statement, that he saw the car approaching “at speed” in his mirrors and had to brake to allow the car to complete the overtake manoeuvre.

“The car seemed out of control and from the speed it came past me I knew it wasn't making the roundabout,” he said. “I saw it veer right and mount the concrete roundabout. I remember thinking as it launched into the air, 'they're not going to make it'.”

He said the car went 14ft in the air.

“It cleared the roundabout, hitting a tree as it flew over it,” he said. “I could see utter devastation.”

The toddler was freed from the vehicle by a passing motorist, and Chikwature was freed by firefighters.

Ms Soanders-Silk said that, apart from being shocked, the toddler “thankfully was unhurt”.

She said the defendant refused to provide police with a breath sample at the scene, but agreed to give a blood sample four hours later in hospital.

Police, using a back calculation, found she had 246 mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood at the time of the incident. The legal limit is 80 mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood.

“She said she had been drinking vodka from 9pm to 1am the night before,” said Ms Soanders-Silk. “She said she didn't feel drunk.”

UK news in pictures







20 show all UK news in pictures





































1/20 10 April 2017 A girls looks at floral tributes for PC Keith Palmer during the funeral parade outside Parliament in London EPA

2/20 10 April 2017 Police officers line the route in Southwark as the funeral procession of PC Keith Palmer makes its way to Southwark Cathedral Getty Images

3/20 10 April 2017 Pall bearers carry the coffin of PC Keith Palmer, in to Southwark Cathedral Getty Images

4/20 9 April 2017 John Boyega attends The Olivier Awards 2017 at Royal Albert Hall in London Getty Images

5/20 9 April 2017 Amanda Holden attends The Olivier Awards 2017 at Royal Albert Hall in London Getty Images

6/20 9 April 2017 Kenneth Branagh and Lindsay Brunnock attend The Olivier Awards 2017 at the Royal Albert Hall Getty Images

7/20 6 April 2017 London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app PA wire

8/20 6 April 2017 London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app. PA wire

9/20 6 April 2017 The cocaine haul in the fishing boat The Bianca, as her skipper Michael McDermott will be sentenced after he tried to smuggle more than £80 million of cocaine into the UK PA wire

10/20 6 April 2017 Jon Platt arrives at the Supreme Court in central London with his wife Sally where the Court will rule on the much-anticipated legal case on an unauthorised holiday during school term time PA wire

11/20 6 April 2017 Bunny Penny, the Playboy Club Bunny of the Year wears an edible chocolate corset and bunny ears at Marble Arch in London PA wire

12/20 6 April 2017 105-year-old Jack Reynolds receives his Guinness World Record certificate after riding the Twistersaurus rollercoaster to raise money for the Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Rutland Air Ambulance fund at Flamingo Land in Malton, North Yorkshire. Reynolds, who broke a Guinness World Record by becoming the oldest person in the world to get a tattoo at the age of 104, said he was not nervous, particularly after flying in a Tiger Moth plane last year PA wire

13/20 6 April 2017 Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, leaves after meeting Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May inside 10 Downing Street Reuters

14/20 5 April 2017 Member of the European Parliament and former leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage wears socks with Union Jack flag at the European Parliament in Strasbourg Getty Images

15/20 5 April 2017 Getty Images

16/20 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

17/20 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

18/20 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

19/20 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

20/20 1 April 2017 Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London Ben Stevens/PA Wire

Chikwature, a married stay-at-home mother, denied she had an alcohol problem.

“She did state 'I could have killed my son',” said Ms Soanders-Silk.

Chikwature was jailed for 26 weeks for dangerous driving and 12 weeks for drink-driving, to be served concurrently.

She was banned from driving for three years and ordered to pay £115 costs.