Borussia Dortmund bus bombs detonated by 'MOBILE PHONE'
Borussia Dortmund team bus hit by explosion


The explosion that hit the Borussia Dortmund team bus ahead of their Champions League quarter-final with Monaco was a targeted attack against the team, German police say.

The three explosions happened as Borussia Dortmund was leaving the L'Arrivee Hotel and Spa, about six miles or a 12-minute drive from the stadium, Signal Iduna Park, for a match against Monaco.

The chief executive of a Dortmund, Hans-Joachim Watzke, said police informed him that the explosives that went off near the team bus were hidden by the exit of a hotel and detonated as the bus passed.

Defender Marc Bartra was injured in the explosion and was taken to hospital, the team said on Twitter. Dortmund told supporters on Twitter that Bartra was undergoing surgery on his right wrist following the incident.

Tuesday night's match was cancelled following the explosion and has been rescheduled for Wednesday.

While investigators do not yet know the source of the explosions, police have confirmed that additional 'suspicious objects' were found at the Dortmund team hotel in the wake of the bus bombing.

A German prosecutor said Tuesday night that a letter found outside the hotel the team bus was departing from when the explosions happened 'takes responsibility for the act'.

Prosecutor Sandra Luecke said authorities won't give details of the letter at this stage, citing the ongoing investigation. The authenticity of the letter has not been verified.

Scroll down for video

The Borussia Dortmund team bus has been hit by an explosion while carrying the squad to their Champions League quarter-final against Monaco, with one player taken to hospital

The explosions appeared to shatter the bus's windows in two two large circular regions toward the back right side of the vehicle

Defender Marc Bartra was injured in the explosion and was taken to hospital, the team said on Twitter, wishing the player a quick recovery

The team's Twitter confirmed the incident took place as the bus was leaving the team's hotel, L'Arrivee, a 12-minute drive from the stadium - Signal Iduna Park

Forensic experts searched the area where the explosion occurred in the hours after the incident

Officers did not reveal the nature of the find but confirmed that a drone was deployed to assist in the search around the hotel.

Gunnar Wortmann, a police spokesman, said: 'We will be working throughout the night to discover who was behind this attack. All police and vehicles in Dortmund have been mobilized.'

Dortmund city's police chief Gregor Lange added: "We are assuming that they were a targeted attack against the Dortmund team.'

Three explosions detonating at the exact moment the bus passed by suggest a sophisticated expertise in both bomb building and detonation - perhaps using a mobile phone or a garage door-opening device.

BORUSSIA DORTMUND BUS EXPLOSIONS AS IT HAPPENED 6.15pm (BST) Three explosions are heard outside the L'Arrivee Hotel and Spa as the Borussia Dortmund team make their way to their home stadium for their Champions League match against Monaco. The explosions smashed the windows of the bus and burst tyres. Dortmund defender Marc Bartra is injured with cuts to his arms from the shards of broken glass. 6.30pm Local police confirm a Borussia Dortmund players is injured following explosions near the team bus. North Rhine-Westphalia police spokesman Gunnar Wortmann said that there were 'three explosions near the team bus as they left the hotel to go to the stadium' and that 'there was one player injured inside and damage to a window.' Dortmund tweeted that a 'bomb explosion' had hit their team bus. They added that the injured player was 'in safety' and that 'there is no danger in and around the stadium.' 7.50pm Borussia Dortmund confirm defender Marc Bartra was injured and is being treated at a hospital and that the match was to be postponed for 24 hours. The team did not provide any details about Bartra's condition. A spokesman at the already crowded stadium informed fans of the cancellation, saying that 'there is no reason for panic here at the stadium'. Dortmund recommended that fans stay in the stadium and remain calm to facilitate an 'orderly departure.' The club thanked supporters of opponent Monaco for their 'patience and understanding' and for chanting 'Dortmund! Dortmund!' when the reason for the postponement was announced 8.05pm The chief executive of Borussia Dortmund Hans-Joachim Watzke confirms Marc Bartra's injuries are 'nothing life-threatening'. Dortmund police spokeswoman Nina Vogt says investigators do not yet know the source of the explosions that went off. 8.20pm Police inform Mr Watzke that the explosives that went off near the team bus were hidden by the exit of a hotel and detonated as the bus passed. He said in a video on the club's website that the team 'is totally shocked' by the explosions that damaged the bus and injured defender Marc Bartra. He added: 'It's our task now to digest this somehow because it's only 24 hours before we have to play. That's our job.' 8.45pm Borussia Dortmund goalkeeper Roman Buerki said 'there was a huge bang, literally an explosion' that sent glass flying about on the bus. He added: 'We're all shocked. Nobody thought about a football match in the minutes after that.'

But nearly three hours after the attack there were no real clues as to who may have been behind it.

Neither club has a radical fan following, leading to speculation it may yet be claimed by radical Islamist groups.

There are no indications that the three explosions were part of an organised terror attack, national news agency DPA reported, citing unnamed security sources.

'No element' points in the direction of such an assault, said the German agency, in line with police who have so far also avoided describing it as a terror attack.

Shortly after the explosions, police confirmed that there was no immediate danger to anyone in and around the football stadium.

Police said in a statement they were working on the assumption that the blasts were caused by 'serious explosive devices', which may have been hidden in a hedge near a car park.

They didn't elaborate on the possible nature of the devices or say who might have planted them ahead of first-leg match between Borussia Dortmund and Monaco.

Explosive devices were believed to have been placed in a bush by the road along which the bus was travelling, according to German newspaper Bild.

'The explosive devices were placed outside the bus. Several windows were broken,' police spokesman Gunnar Wortmann was quoted as saying.

In a statement, Dortmund police said earlier that they could not say 'exactly what the explosion was or exactly where something exploded'.

'According to what is currently known, the windows of the bus were (entirely or partly) smashed and one person was injured,' Dortmund police said, adding that the incident happened in Hoechsten, located outside the city.

Several windows were smashed in the explosion, and Bartra, a Spanish national, was the only player to be taken to hospital.

Borussia Dortmund goalkeeper Roman Buerki said the team bus had just pulled out of the hotel driveway when it was rocked by an explosion.

Buerki told Swiss daily Blick that 'there was a huge bang, literally an explosion' that sent glass flying about.

The Swiss keeper said he was sitting in the last row of the bus, next to Bartra. He said Bartra was hit by shards of glass from the broken back window.

Buerki added that players ducked for cover, wondering if there would be more explosions. He said police were at the scene quickly.

The goalkeeper told Blick: 'We're all shocked. Nobody thought about a football match in the minutes after that.'

Bartra, the only player injured in the explosion, joined the club from Barcelona last year, and his former club were quick to wish him well.

'All of our support to @MarcBartra, @BVB and their fans,' Barcelona tweeted in support of their former player.

Bartra, 26, joined Dortmund for eight million euros ($8.48million, £6.79million) last year from Barcelona, after coming through the Catalan club's youth system.

He has made 12 appearances for the Spanish national team.

Borussia Dortmund's managing director Hans-Joachim Watzke was quoted telling Sky TV: 'The whole team is in a state of shock.'

Monaco striker Radamel Falcao also sent his best wishes to the player and his club, tweeting: 'I'm sorry for everything that has happened. We are all well. I wish a speedy recovery to Marc Bartra.'

Dortmund also released a statement explaining what happened.

'Shortly after the departure of the Borussia Dortmund team bus from the hotel to the stadium there was an incident,' Dortmund said in a statement.

'The bus has been damaged in two places. One person has been injured and is in the hospital. At this point we will inform as soon as we know more.'

In the immediate aftermath of the explosions, Dortmund said there was 'no cause for concern' for those at the stadium, and added the club were in close contact with the emergency services and UEFA.

Monaco released a statement, saying: 'Faced with this difficult situation, AS Monaco wishes to express its full support for the whole Borussia Dortmund team and club.'

Dortmund players stand outside the team bus after it was damaged in an explosion on Tuesday night in western Germany

Borussia Dortmund coach Thomas Tuchel is seen by the team bus after an explosion near their hotel before the game

Head coach Thomas Tuchel, centre, is surrounded by players after evacuating the bus following Tuesday night's explosion

Dortmund players check their smartphones as they stand outside their team bus following the explosion

Police officers stand in front of Dortmund's damaged team bus after the explosion on Tuesday

According to reports, explosions were heard as the coach went over a bridge six miles from the stadium

AS Monaco goalkeeper Danijel Subasic told Croatian daily newspaper 24sata: 'We are currently in the stadium, in a safe place, but the feeling's horrible.'

An announcement was made inside the stadium with a message put on the big screen informing supporters of the incident.

Police Dortmund said in a statement: 'In the run-up to the Champions League game between BVB (Dortmund) and AS Monaco, there was just after 1900 tonight an explosion close to the BVB team bus.'

Following the announcement that the match had been postponed, Police Dortmund tweeted: 'To reassure stadium visitors and relatives: There are currently no indications of a threat to visitors in the stadium.'

Dortmund recommended that fans stay in the stadium and remain calm to facilitate an 'orderly departure'.

The club thanked supporters of opponent Monaco for their 'patience and understanding' and for chanting 'Dortmund! Dortmund!' when the reason for the postponement was announced.

And Dortmund's official Twitter alerted Monaco fans to the hashtag #bedforawayfans as home supporters offered to put up supporters hoping to stay for the revised kick off on Wednesday.

Monaco also announced that it would give fans 80 euros (£68) toward hotel rooms for the night.

President of Borussia Dortmund Reinhard Rauball (cenre) reacts on the reports at the stadium in Dortmund, Germany

Borussia Dortmund Hans-Joachim Watzke (second left) and President of Borussia Dortmund Reinhard Rauball (second right) talk with journalists as they react on the reports at the stadium in Dortmund

Police officers and firefighters stand outside the Dortmund team bus after it was damaged in an explosion

Dortmund police spokeswoman Nina Vogt said investigators do not yet know the source of the explosions

Dortmund's Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, left, talks to teammates after a window of Dortmund's team bus was damaged in an explosion

#BEDFORAWAYFANS: KIND-HEARTED DORTMUND FANS OPEN THEIR DOORS FOR VISITING MONACO SUPPORTERS Kind-hearted people in Germany are offering Monaco fans a place to stay after three explosions hit the Borussia Dortmund team bus - forcing their Champions League match to be postponed tonight. The explosions happened as the German club's bus was leaving L'Arrivee Hotel and Spa, about six miles from the stadium, Signal Iduna Park, for their quarter final clash with the French side. Defender Marc Bartra was injured in the explosion and was taken to hospital, the team said on Twitter, wishing the player a quick recovery. Tonight's match was postponed following the explosion and has been rescheduled for tomorrow. And many kind people in Dortmund have taken to Twitter to offer their homes as a place to stay for tonight and tomorrow, using the #bedforawayfans Thousands of Monaco supporters made the 730-mile trip for the match and the majority were in the stadium before it was called off. And many kind people in Dortmund have taken to Twitter to offer their homes as a place to stay for tonight and tomorrow, using the #bedforawayfans. Vespafoto tweeted: 'Dear @AS_Monaco_ES fan. We have accomodation (sic) for for 5 people tonight to stay in Dortmund until tomorrow, just message me #bedforawayfans. Fischer said: 'I have space for 8 people. 15 mins away from the stadium.' The hashtag caught on and was endorsed by both clubs, with Dortmund saying: 'Dear supporter of @AS_Monaco_EN! If you need accommodation in Dortmund, please check #bedforawatyfans.' The social media site was also used with Monaco fans asking for help. Meanwhile, the chief executive of Borussia Dortmund, Hans-Joachim Watzke, said police informed him that the explosives that went off near the team bus were hidden by the exit of a hotel and detonated as the bus passed. Dortmund police spokeswoman Nina Vogt said investigators do not yet know the source of the explosions. Watzke said: 'It's our task now to digest this somehow because it's only 24 hours before we have to play. That's our job.'

'The team is totally shocked, that's clear. It's our task now to digest this somehow because it's only 24 hours before we have to play. That's our job,' Dortmun Chief executive Watzke said.

He added that there was 'no alternative' to rescheduling the match for Wednesday, as Monaco also has to play at the weekend and the return Champions League match is scheduled for next week.

'It's a very unfortunate situation but there was no other way,' he said.

After the explosions, Dortmund players were transferred to the ground in minibuses and later made their way home on private cars.

Dortmund and German Football League (DFL) president Reinhard Rauball said it would be a 'bad thing' for the perpetrators to have any impact on the outcome of the quarter-final tie.

He said in a statement on the club's website: 'Of course this is an extremely difficult situation for the players.

'But they are professionals, and I am convinced that they will put this away and will produce a performance (on Wednesday).

'It would be a bad thing for those who did this to succeed because the team is influenced in some way.'

Several of the players made phone calls as they stood outside the bus following the explosion

Dortmund's Marcel Schmelzer and other players speak to police officers outside the team bus after it was damaged in an explosion

Police escorted team members to an unknown location following the blast on Tuesday night

Police Dortmund praised fans for the way they dealt with developments, tweeting: 'High praise to all stadium visitors! Without problems almost all left the stadium and are on the way home!'

Wolves manager Paul Lambert, who lifted the Champions League with Borussia Dortmund in 1997, was inside Signal Iduna Park working as a pundit for BT Sport and said the right decision had been made.

'It looks like the game will be called off and quite right so. It's really uncertain what has happened but you've got to call it off,' he said.

Fellow summariser Glen Hoddle agreed, adding: 'It's dreadful [if a player is on their way to hospital]. The game has got to not go ahead there is no doubt about. UEFA has got to put out a statement in the next few minutes.

'Your mind immediately as a player will go to your friend, your team-mate and hoping that he's OK.

'You'll be shaken up by the incident yourself so to be expected to concentrate on the level of game which is the Champions League quarter-final tonight, it's unfair. It's unfair on the players and unfair on the club.'

Borussia Dortmund put a message on the stadium screens informing fans of the incident

One fan looks concerned as he reacts to news of the bus attack as it is flashed on the screen

Several fans checked their mobiles and made phone calls following news of the explosion

One distraught fan showed her emotions and raised two peace signs after the postponement of Tuesday's game

Mounted police patrol around the stadium in Dortmund ahead of Tuesday's cancelled match

Emergency vehicles arrived on scene shortly after the explosions and took Bartra to the hospital

European football's governing body UEFA released a statement after the game was postponed.

The statement said: 'This decision was made after a meeting held at the Westfalenstadion between UEFA, representatives of the two clubs and local authorities.'

German Justice Minister Heiko Maas wrote on Twitter following the explosion: 'Shocking news. Our thoughts are with (Borussia Dortmund). You'll never walk alone!'

Germany's interior minister Thomas de Maziere also spoke out after the incident.

He said: 'My thoughts are with the team. Now we have to find out what lay behind this. I hope that tomorrow football will once again take centre stage.'

Germany has seen matches postponed over security concerns before.

In Hannover, in November 2015, Germany's international soccer friendly against the Netherlands was canceled just before kickoff after police feared an explosive device might be detonated at the stadium.

It came days after devices were detonated outside the Stade de France in Paris as France was playing Germany as part of a coordinated attack on the French capital.