Pilot walked away after plane crashes nose first on Maine highway
Pilot walks away after plane crash on Maine highway
Shares               A pilot was able to walk away after his plane crashed on a Maine highway Tuesday morning, according to police. Maine State Police posted a photo of the plane crash scene on I-295 near the town of Bowdoinham. The plane appears to have nose-dived onto the shoulder of the highway before it collided with the guardrail around 10:15 a.m., police said.  A close-up of the small plane on top of I-295 guardrail. pic.twitter.com/iyDmisU9uo  The pilot not only survived, but walked away from the wreck, police said. It is unclear if the pilot sustained any injuries.        Photo of crashed plane on I-295 near Exit 37. pic.twitter.com/YIPT5e59hf  Southbound traffic was not affected as a result of the crash, but authorities may need to reduce the highway to one lane in order to remove the plane, police said. Further details on the incident were not immediately available.  Shares                  Pilot walks away after plane crash on Maine highway   Russians trying to 'cover up' what happened in Syria, US officials say   Spicer raises eyebrows, saying Hitler didn't 'sink to using chemical weapons'   Spicer apologizes for Hitler-Assad comparison: 'It was insensitive and inappropriate'   Alabama ends death penalty by judicial override   Sessions makes clear: It's 'Trump era' of immigration enforcement   Firearms stolen from gun stores spiked in 2016   Germany: Pregame blasts rock soccer team bus; player injured   1 dead, 2 injured in shooting at Ficosa plant in Tennessee   Suspect admits ramming truck into Stockholm crowd: Lawyer   North Korea decries US carrier dispatch as parliament meets   7th grader wins awards for 'remarkable' cancer research   Chris Pratt tells wife Anna Faris, 'I'm grateful to have you'   Instead of dyeing Easter eggs, try decoupage   College student creates 3-page dating application for potential suitors   Teen's quest for Wendy's nuggets gets huge Twitter support   Indiana grandma marries high school prom date 64 years later   High school senior jumps out of plane for elaborate skydiving 'promposal'   Family avoids cat-astrophe after mountain lion invades home   Bat reportedly found in salad spurs CDC investigation   Definition of lazy: Man gets his takeout from his roof   What patients need to know about new recommendations for prostate cancer screening   Prosecutor sues governor after he took death cases from her   NFL could fine players for arm wrestling at Las Vegas casino   Penn State leader says problems could doom fraternity system   8 arrested in connection with St. Petersburg bombing   US, Canada, Mexico ask FIFA for faster World Cup bid process   Wells banker singled out for excesses had a meteoric rise   Appeals court reverses ruling blocking tribe's casino bid   Bombardment in Iraq's Mosul takes heavy toll on civilians   Mystery surrounds murder of Chicago judge   Judge shot to death in Chicago, manhunt on for suspect   Family of Navy SEAL trainee who died plans to take legal action   SEAL instructor will not face charges in death of trainee who drowned   Michael Buble's son doing well after cancer treatment   Nancy Kerrigan opens up about her 6 miscarriages in 8 years   Family urges fugitive who sent manifesto to Trump to surrender   'The Daily Show' star to host White House correspondents' dinner   Mr. T insists he wasn't 'booted' off 'Dancing With the Stars'   The Rat Pack: Dog, cat and rat form unlikely love triangle

A pilot was able to walk away after his plane crashed on a Maine highway Tuesday morning, according to police.

Maine State Police posted a photo of the plane crash scene on I-295 near the town of Bowdoinham. The plane appears to have nose-dived onto the shoulder of the highway before it collided with the guardrail around 10:15 a.m., police said.

A close-up of the small plane on top of I-295 guardrail. pic.twitter.com/iyDmisU9uo — Tom Ward (@DeliaandDobie) April 11, 2017

The pilot not only survived, but walked away from the wreck, police said. It is unclear if the pilot sustained any injuries.

Photo of crashed plane on I-295 near Exit 37. pic.twitter.com/YIPT5e59hf — Tom Ward (@DeliaandDobie) April 11, 2017

Southbound traffic was not affected as a result of the crash, but authorities may need to reduce the highway to one lane in order to remove the plane, police said. Further details on the incident were not immediately available.

ABC News' Gregory Croft contributed to this report.