Stockholm terror attack victim named as Ebba Åkerlund
Girl, 11, killed in Stockholm terror attack is named as Ebba Åkerlund


Ebba Åkerlund, 11, was killed as she walked home from school

An 11-year-old girl who was walking home from school has been named as the latest victim of last Friday's jihadi atrocity in Stockholm.

Schoolgirl Ebba Åkerlund went missing in the panic which ensued when a terrorist mowed down innocent pedestrians in one of the Swedish capital's busiest shopping districts.

The 11-year-old's grief stricken family launched a desperate social media appeal to find her after the atrocity - but tonight confirmed she was killed as she walked home.

According to local media, Ebba's family are understood to have found out on Saturday she was one of the victims killed in the horrifying attack.

In a statement, Ebba's family said: 'With all our heart we thank the Swedish people for all the warmth and love you have given us in a time of despair and pain.

'We now need peace and quiet to process our grief and ask for your understanding that we need to do it in peace.'

Her family said Ebba knew the route well, and would take the bus from school to central Stockholm in the afternoons, before switching to the subway and continuing back to her parents' home.

The 11-year-old's grief stricken family launched a desperate social media appeal to find her after the atrocity - but tonight confirmed she was killed as she walked home

Ebba's photograph was shared across social media when she didn't arrive home last Friday.

A failed asylum seeker who has professed his support for Islamic State today admitted carrying out last week’s terror attack in Stockholm.

Rakhmat Akilov, 39, said he was responsible for the rampage in which four people were killed.

The other three victims in the terrorist attack have been named as Lena Wahlberg, 69, from Sweden, Chris Bevington, 41, from Britain and Maïlys Dereymaeker, 31, from Belgium.

The construction worker from Uzbekistan was being sought by deportation officers when he used a hijacked 30-ton beer truck to mow down pedestrians on the Swedish capital’s main shopping street.

After being arrested, he allegedly told police that he had plotted the attack as revenge for ‘the bombing in Syria’.

The scene of the terror attack in Stockholm has since been flooded with floral tributes

Rakhmat Akilov, 39, said he was responsible for the rampage in which four people were killed

He also left 15 wounded after ploughing a stolen beer truck through crowds of people in one of the Swedish capital's busiest shopping districts. Pictured, members of the public lay flowers at the scene

Akilov also told authorities of his ISIS sympathies. He has previously expressed support for extremist group Hizb ut-Tahrir.

The suspect appeared in a Stockholm District Court today, where his lawyer Johan Eriksson said: ‘His position is that he admits to a terrorist crime and accepts therefore that he will be detained.’

A trial may not take place for another year as authorities try to determine if he was acting as part of a terror cell.

A Swedish prosecutor demanded that Akilov remain in custody under maximum restrictions.

Under the conditions, he would be kept in solitary confinement without access to television or internet and will not be allowed to communicate with the outside world.