‘Everyone Has a Price’: Readers React to Passenger Removed from United Flight
‘Everyone Has a Price’: Readers React to Passenger Removed from United Flight
United Criticized Over Passenger Dragged From Plane After facing a backlash, the airline apologized for its treatment of the passenger.      Cellphone videos of an unidentified man being dragged off a United Airlines flight on Sunday elicited outrage after passengers posted it on Twitter. The footage shows the man screaming as he was forced out of his seat by a security officer and dragged down the aisle by his arms. There was blood visible on his mouth, and his glasses and shirt were askew. Readers were swift to reply to a New York Times article about the episode. In thousands of comments received on the website and The Times’s Facebook page, most expressed outrage over the airline’s treatment of the customer, while others shared their own stories of being bumped from a flight. Below is a selection of those comments, which have been edited for length and clarity. ‘I am Speechless.’ I’m a retired United pilot. While I agree this was unnecessary roughness, there are several points to clarify. This was not mainline United Airlines. This was on a United Express flight, meaning the flight crew and agents work for a totally separate air carrier that flies smaller planes under contract by United Airlines. Advertisement Just an educated hunch, not knowing the facts here, but it sounds like the four employees who were “must rides” were going to Louisville to crew another aircraft, and this was a last-minute reassignment. Advertisement But none of this supports throwing a passenger off a plane physically. I am speechless. Not an impressive move by United, and in the city of their headquarters. I used to be a United Global Services member, which (oddly) meant that they would remove someone from a flight if the flight was sold out and I wanted a seat on that flight. Apparently, this now extends to employees who want to hop from city to city. Shame on UAL. ‘I Was ‘Escorted’ From the Door’ Same thing happened to me on a United flight some years ago. While I didn’t get dragged down the aisle like him, I was “escorted” from the door of the aircraft back to the gate. When a few us reached the door to the aircraft, the flight attendants stopped me and said I couldn’t board at the last minute because the flight was over booked. Advertisement When I protested, two female flight attendants on either side took both my arms and escorted me back to the gate. I was furious. After much wrangling, I was able to get back on the plane because I had a 9 a.m. job interview and it was the last plane out of Chicago to L.A. and someone was kind enough to let me have her seat. I have never taken another United flight again. For this “assault,” they gave me a $150 voucher which I tore up and threw away. They are reprehensible. By the way, I’m Asian too. ‘What Were the Cops Supposed to do?’ The man was disorderly and refusing to obey airline staff and police instructions. What were the cops supposed to do? Meekly tell him to have a nice day and walk off the plane? When the police are called in most cases like this they take some kind of action. This gentleman bears the responsibility for how this scene played out. Advertisement ‘Everyone Has a Price’ I’m trying to understand why airlines aren’t required to simply keep upping their offer until they get volunteers. We supposedly live in a free market society and everyone has a price. Yes, they’ll probably get into scenarios where they are losing money. Tough. They’re breaking a contract with their customer; they should have to pay the price for that. Advertisement I was once on a JetBlue flight that was overbooked. They offered a hotel room to whoever want to leave. When no one volunteered the upped the offer until someone did. They didn’t drag someone out of their seat. This is no way to conduct a business. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy — Judy Ranalli on Facebook I was bumped off a flight once and was replaced by the airline’s captain (or a first officer). I was on my way to my aunt’s funeral, and before I departed the cabin I turned and pleaded with the other passengers if anyone could go off the plane so I could fly. No one offered. I was really [bummed] because I knew I might miss the funeral and family gathering. Advertisement Of course I got a free round-trip ticket to use within the continental United States and luckily got on a flight one hour later. The first plane from which I was bumped ended up having landing gear issues! It had to dump all of its fuel and the circle the airport while my plane landed just ahead of it. I saw those first plane passengers in baggage claim and they were all stressed and shook up. The guy who was seated next to me on the first plane saw me and acted like he had seen a ghost. That made my day. It is strange how sometimes getting bumped isn’t all bad. Advertisement I hope this ends up being the most expensive passenger “bump” in the history of United. They could have just offered more cash for willing volunteers. Instead, I hope this man sues. And the other 3 people who were made to leave should sue also. ‘Is it Too Much to Expect That They Won’t Beat You?’ I am a cardiologist who has been asked to provide emergency care on two separate flights. I never received, or expected, anything in return. But is it too much to expect that they won’t beat you? In what other industry can you pay hundreds of dollars for a service (that is often essential personally or professionally) and then have that service randomly revoked? So the airlines make a bit less money — they are already raking it in. Ending overbooking practices would not cost airlines anything except immoral profits at the expense of desperate travelers! Advertisement ‘United Thought He’d be Easy Pickings’ I served on the board of a Chinese-American civil rights organization for 30 years. The organization routinely monitored dozens of incidents every year involving law enforcement and Asian-Americans due to racist perceptions that we’re passive, docile, never litigate or protest official misconduct or mistreatment. Advertisement It’s likely that this particular passenger wasn’t randomly chosen but consciously selected because United thought he’d be easy pickings as a bespectacled Asian follows orders and goes quietly. Advertisement I still am asked if I speak English or told that my English is pretty good for a “Chinaman.” When I used to travel to Chapel Hill for work, I’m asked if dogs are part of my diet. Older Chinese speak of the “bitter tea” we must drink in America, even if we’re American. I wasn’t aware it was a featured beverage on United. It’s a taste the doctor will never get over. Advertisement ‘Are we Just a Society of Video Makers?’ That all the other passengers on the plane saw this going on and not one of them volunteered to take his place. Surely, there was at least one person on that plane who could show some flexibility in their travel arrangements? The whole situation is just appalling, for all involved. I’m happy other passengers documented this violence. I’d like to imagine that I would have stood in the aisle and blocked the officer. Imagine the aisle filled with other passengers blocking the exit. I don’t think I am brave enough to have done that, but I need to think about what my actions should be in responding to all police violence. Are we just a society of video makers? Am I willing to step in before they shoot someone? Have you Ever Been Bumped From a Flight? Share Your Experience. You have words left. First and last preferred, please. We will not  share your contact information. By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, does not plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, does not violate anyone’s rights and is not libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to our Terms of Service. Thank you for your submission. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Just an educated hunch, not knowing the facts here, but it sounds like the four employees who were “must rides” were going to Louisville to crew another aircraft, and this was a last-minute reassignment.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But none of this supports throwing a passenger off a plane physically. I am speechless.

— Howard, Virginia

Not an impressive move by United, and in the city of their headquarters. I used to be a United Global Services member, which (oddly) meant that they would remove someone from a flight if the flight was sold out and I wanted a seat on that flight. Apparently, this now extends to employees who want to hop from city to city. Shame on UAL.

— Compassion & Resilience, San Clemente, Calif.

‘I Was ‘Escorted’ From the Door’

Same thing happened to me on a United flight some years ago. While I didn’t get dragged down the aisle like him, I was “escorted” from the door of the aircraft back to the gate. When a few us reached the door to the aircraft, the flight attendants stopped me and said I couldn’t board at the last minute because the flight was over booked.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When I protested, two female flight attendants on either side took both my arms and escorted me back to the gate. I was furious. After much wrangling, I was able to get back on the plane because I had a 9 a.m. job interview and it was the last plane out of Chicago to L.A. and someone was kind enough to let me have her seat. I have never taken another United flight again. For this “assault,” they gave me a $150 voucher which I tore up and threw away. They are reprehensible. By the way, I’m Asian too.

— Labrador, New York

‘What Were the Cops Supposed to do?’

The man was disorderly and refusing to obey airline staff and police instructions. What were the cops supposed to do? Meekly tell him to have a nice day and walk off the plane? When the police are called in most cases like this they take some kind of action. This gentleman bears the responsibility for how this scene played out.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

— Tornadoxy, Ohio

‘Everyone Has a Price’

I’m trying to understand why airlines aren’t required to simply keep upping their offer until they get volunteers. We supposedly live in a free market society and everyone has a price.

Yes, they’ll probably get into scenarios where they are losing money. Tough. They’re breaking a contract with their customer; they should have to pay the price for that.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

— Earth Resident, Denver

I was once on a JetBlue flight that was overbooked. They offered a hotel room to whoever want to leave. When no one volunteered the upped the offer until someone did. They didn’t drag someone out of their seat. This is no way to conduct a business.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

— Judy Ranalli on Facebook

I was bumped off a flight once and was replaced by the airline’s captain (or a first officer). I was on my way to my aunt’s funeral, and before I departed the cabin I turned and pleaded with the other passengers if anyone could go off the plane so I could fly. No one offered. I was really [bummed] because I knew I might miss the funeral and family gathering.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Of course I got a free round-trip ticket to use within the continental United States and luckily got on a flight one hour later. The first plane from which I was bumped ended up having landing gear issues! It had to dump all of its fuel and the circle the airport while my plane landed just ahead of it.

I saw those first plane passengers in baggage claim and they were all stressed and shook up. The guy who was seated next to me on the first plane saw me and acted like he had seen a ghost. That made my day. It is strange how sometimes getting bumped isn’t all bad.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

— Lingonberry, Seattle

I hope this ends up being the most expensive passenger “bump” in the history of United.

They could have just offered more cash for willing volunteers. Instead, I hope this man sues. And the other 3 people who were made to leave should sue also.

— Carrie, ABQ



‘Is it Too Much to Expect That They Won’t Beat You?’

I am a cardiologist who has been asked to provide emergency care on two separate flights. I never received, or expected, anything in return. But is it too much to expect that they won’t beat you?

— Alan Zelcer MD, Delray Beach, Fla.

In what other industry can you pay hundreds of dollars for a service (that is often essential personally or professionally) and then have that service randomly revoked? So the airlines make a bit less money — they are already raking it in. Ending overbooking practices would not cost airlines anything except immoral profits at the expense of desperate travelers!

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

— Alex W., Brooklyn

‘United Thought He’d be Easy Pickings’

I served on the board of a Chinese-American civil rights organization for 30 years. The organization routinely monitored dozens of incidents every year involving law enforcement and Asian-Americans due to racist perceptions that we’re passive, docile, never litigate or protest official misconduct or mistreatment.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It’s likely that this particular passenger wasn’t randomly chosen but consciously selected because United thought he’d be easy pickings as a bespectacled Asian follows orders and goes quietly.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I still am asked if I speak English or told that my English is pretty good for a “Chinaman.” When I used to travel to Chapel Hill for work, I’m asked if dogs are part of my diet.

Older Chinese speak of the “bitter tea” we must drink in America, even if we’re American. I wasn’t aware it was a featured beverage on United. It’s a taste the doctor will never get over.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

— Yuri Asian, Bay Area

‘Are we Just a Society of Video Makers?’

That all the other passengers on the plane saw this going on and not one of them volunteered to take his place. Surely, there was at least one person on that plane who could show some flexibility in their travel arrangements? The whole situation is just appalling, for all involved.

— Jennifer, Portland

I’m happy other passengers documented this violence.

I’d like to imagine that I would have stood in the aisle and blocked the officer. Imagine the aisle filled with other passengers blocking the exit.

I don’t think I am brave enough to have done that, but I need to think about what my actions should be in responding to all police violence. Are we just a society of video makers? Am I willing to step in before they shoot someone?

— Lynne Jahnke, Santa Barbara, Calif.