A Forgotten Giant More Prized Than Amazon
A Forgotten Asian Giant, More Prized Than Amazon
A Forgotten Giant More Prized Than Amazon   Consumer  David Fickling is a Bloomberg Gadfly columnist covering commodities, as well as industrial and consumer companies. He has been a reporter for Bloomberg News, Dow Jones, the Wall Street Journal, the Financial Times and the Guardian.  Facebook   Twitter   Email   Print   Share  Someone is getting it badly wrong on Japan's biggest retailer. Analysts haven't had a single buy rating on supermarket and mall giant Aeon Co. since September 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. But the stock has risen by nearly one-third since March 2015, the last time two separate analysts thought it worthy of a "buy." With annual results due Wednesday, Aeon sits on a blended forward 12-month price-earnings ratio of 62 -- not far behind Amazon.com Inc.'s 66, and well above the 16 median of global retailers with at least $10 billion in annual sales. On the less predictive measure of historic price-earnings ratios, it's the most richly valued member of that group, on 223, compared with Amazon's 183, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.'s 54, and Inditex SA's 33. What's going on? It's not hard to see why analysts are down on the stock. Japan's retail industry is highly fragmented, with Aeon's 4 percent share enough to make it the market leader in 2016, according to Euromonitor International. Even in the fields of supermarkets and mixed retailing, where it's also the biggest player, the company has respective market shares of 8.6 percent and 19 percent, according to Euromonitor. Large-format retailers where Aeon dominates have been losing ground to convenience stores like those run by Seven & i Holdings Co. and FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co. for several years, as Japan's population ages and people turn to local outlets. Margins in its core chains are now so low that Aeon typically makes the bulk of its earnings from financial services and shopping mall development -- businesses that account for less than 10 percent of revenue. That might be part of the explanation, though. Aeon's financial and real estate businesses are huge, with 4.7 trillion yen ($43 billion) in gross assets and 162 billion yen of Ebitda in the year through February 2016. Apply the median Ebitda multiple of 15.23 for Japanese financial companies to that sum and give the units a share of Aeon's cash proportionate to their debts, and the market cap of the businesses alone should be about 1.63 trillion yen -- more than the 1.44 trillion yen value for the group as a whole. Unfortunately, you can't wish away the retail stores with which the finance units are intertwined. Full-year operating profit at the group as a whole will rise about 4 percent to 185 billion yen, the Nikkei Asian Review reported last week , without saying where it got the information -- markedly below the 7.4 percent gain the company forecast as recently as January. Revenue will be flat at 8.2 trillion yen, Nikkei reported, in contrast to the company's 8.4 trillion yen forecast. There are significant headwinds to improving that picture -- particularly the uncertain turnaround of the Daiei Inc. chain, which Aeon took over in 2014 . Analysts have lifted their price targets 18 percent so far this year, bringing their discount to the share price close to the narrowest levels since 2014 The challenges of flat growth, fragmented markets and unprofitable stores suggest a sustained recovery remains a way off. Aeon's worst years may now be behind it -- but it's no Amazon.com. This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.  Book-value estimates tend to be better for financial companies, but it's hard to work out such a number for Aeon's financial-services units. Subtracting the value of gross debts, banking and lessee deposits from their gross assets, you get a figure of 1.11 trillion yen, but that's almost certainly an overestimate. At the median 0.96 book-value multiple for Japanese financial-services companies, it would suggest a valuation of 1.07 trillion yen.  To contact the author of this story: in at dfickling@bloomberg.net To contact the editor responsible for this story: at psillitoe@bloomberg.net Voters still undecided null  France's Bond Roller-Coaster   Markets  Proportion of H-1B visas that go to Indians HOME RUN  Trump Puts India First   Tech  Gone Sour Milk It  HSBC Dims Huishan Investor Hopes   Industrials  Axovant CEO Stock Jump Stiff Head Winds  New Captain, Same Ship for Axovant   Health  NextEra Steps  NextEra Needs Oncor Or An Encore   Deals  Apple's Demands From Qualcomm Marginalized  Apple Goes to Court to Protect its Profits   Tech  Pressure Cooker  Play Along, Whole Foods   Consumer  Raining Bonds In Your Debt  Wall Street's Thank-You Letter to Corporate America   Markets  Reality Bites  Retail Investors, Listen to the Kids   Consumer  Number of companies in which France owns stakes Government risk  Pruning France's $106 Billion Portfolio   Finance  Dialog sales to Apple Second Bite  Don't Depend on Apple   Tech  Wardrobe Staple Timeless  LVMH: Luxury's Little Black Dress   Consumer  Toshiba goodwill writedown Goodwill Hunting  The $7 Trillion Hazard That Lies Beneath the M&A Boom   Deals  Australian Rules tax discredit  Gold, Franking Nonsense and Err   Commodities  Brown Out Giant check  Money Talks in Toshiba Chip Fight   Tech  Out of Reach Break it Down  Hong Kong Developers Dance to Their Own Tune   Real Estate  All Together Now Long Haul  Happy Trucker, Happy Merger   Deals  Powder Play Snow Job  Buyout Shows Why Investors Shouldn't Get Over Their Skis   Deals  Tenured Voting Record  The Wells Fargo Clean Sweep   Finance  Staley's pay Mole Hunting  Barclays Blows the Whistle. On Its Own CEO   Finance  Big spenders Shiny, Unhappy People  Madison Avenue Takes a Darker Turn   Media  Tougher in Taipei Spitting Chips  Blame the Strong Dollar. No, Not That One   Tech  Policy Plus Unfettered  China Insurance Probe Won't Halt Firms' Overseas Urge   Deals  Disconnect INTELLIGENT INVESTORS  Unicom Can Win by Playing Smart   Tech

Someone is getting it badly wrong on Japan's biggest retailer.

Analysts haven't had a single buy rating on supermarket and mall giant Aeon Co. since September 2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. But the stock has risen by nearly one-third since March 2015, the last time two separate analysts thought it worthy of a "buy."

Overdue an Upgrade Equity analysts are finally coming round to shareholders' view of Aeon Source: Bloomberg

With annual results due Wednesday, Aeon sits on a blended forward 12-month price-earnings ratio of 62 -- not far behind Amazon.com Inc.'s 66, and well above the 16 median of global retailers with at least $10 billion in annual sales. On the less predictive measure of historic price-earnings ratios, it's the most richly valued member of that group, on 223, compared with Amazon's 183, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.'s 54, and Inditex SA's 33.

Big in Japan Aeon's price-earnings ratios are among the highest in the global retail sector Source: Bloomberg

What's going on?

It's not hard to see why analysts are down on the stock. Japan's retail industry is highly fragmented, with Aeon's 4 percent share enough to make it the market leader in 2016, according to Euromonitor International. Even in the fields of supermarkets and mixed retailing, where it's also the biggest player, the company has respective market shares of 8.6 percent and 19 percent, according to Euromonitor.

You Can Bank on It The low margins in Aeon's main retail chains make it a financial services company in all but name Source: Company reports, Gadfly calculations

Large-format retailers where Aeon dominates have been losing ground to convenience stores like those run by Seven & i Holdings Co. and FamilyMart UNY Holdings Co. for several years, as Japan's population ages and people turn to local outlets. Margins in its core chains are now so low that Aeon typically makes the bulk of its earnings from financial services and shopping mall development -- businesses that account for less than 10 percent of revenue.

Financial and real estate gross assets 4.7 trillion yen

That might be part of the explanation, though. Aeon's financial and real estate businesses are huge, with 4.7 trillion yen ($43 billion) in gross assets and 162 billion yen of Ebitda in the year through February 2016.

Apply the median Ebitda multiple of 15.23 for Japanese financial companies to that sum and give the units a share of Aeon's cash proportionate to their debts, and the market cap of the businesses alone should be about 1.63 trillion yen -- more than the 1.44 trillion yen value for the group as a whole.

Low Prices Everyday Aeon's operating profits are recovering, but it's no growth stock Source: Bloomberg

Unfortunately, you can't wish away the retail stores with which the finance units are intertwined. Full-year operating profit at the group as a whole will rise about 4 percent to 185 billion yen, the Nikkei Asian Review reported last week, without saying where it got the information -- markedly below the 7.4 percent gain the company forecast as recently as January. Revenue will be flat at 8.2 trillion yen, Nikkei reported, in contrast to the company's 8.4 trillion yen forecast.

There are significant headwinds to improving that picture -- particularly the uncertain turnaround of the Daiei Inc. chain, which Aeon took over in 2014.

Analysts have lifted their price targets 18 percent so far this year, bringing their discount to the share price close to the narrowest levels since 2014 The challenges of flat growth, fragmented markets and unprofitable stores suggest a sustained recovery remains a way off. Aeon's worst years may now be behind it -- but it's no Amazon.com.

This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg LP and its owners.

To contact the author of this story:

David Fickling in Sydney at dfickling@bloomberg.net

To contact the editor responsible for this story:

Paul Sillitoe at psillitoe@bloomberg.net