Revolution Bandmates to Speak at Prince Anniversary Event
Revolution Bandmates to Speak at Prince Anniversary Event
Revolution Bandmates to Speak at Prince Anniversary Event  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Musicians who played on stage with Prince will speak at a four-day celebration of the "Purple Rain" superstar at Paisley Park. Organizers of "Celebration 2017" announced speakers for the event on Tuesday. It's scheduled to run April 20-23, being held during the anniversary of Prince's death. Among the speakers are Lisa Coleman, Wendy Melvoin, drummer Bobby Z, keyboardist Matt Fink and bassist BrownMark from Prince's 1980s band, The Revolution.  Other speakers include Levi Seacer from Prince's 1990s band, New Power Generation, keyboardist Morris Hayes, costume designer Stacia Lang and singer Shelby J. Tickets are nearly sold out. Only certain general admission passes are still available, at $549 each. Each day will include performances on Paisley Park's soundstage.Â Prince died April 21, 2016, Â of an accidental overdose.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Prince performs on Feb. 18, 1986 at the Forum in Inglewood, Calif.

Musicians who played on stage with Prince will speak at a four-day celebration of the "Purple Rain" superstar at Paisley Park.

Organizers of "Celebration 2017" announced speakers for the event on Tuesday. It's scheduled to run April 20-23, being held during the anniversary of Prince's death.

Among the speakers are Lisa Coleman, Wendy Melvoin, drummer Bobby Z, keyboardist Matt Fink and bassist BrownMark from Prince's 1980s band, The Revolution.

Other speakers include Levi Seacer from Prince's 1990s band, New Power Generation, keyboardist Morris Hayes, costume designer Stacia Lang and singer Shelby J.

Tickets are nearly sold out. Only certain general admission passes are still available, at $549 each.

Each day will include performances on Paisley Park's soundstage.Â Prince died April 21, 2016,Â of an accidental overdose.