ADPVoice: 3 Ways To Equalize The Treatment Of Women In The Workplace
ADPVoice: 3 Ways To Equalize The Treatment Of Women In The Workplace
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  ADP       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. If you believe the treatment of women in the workplace is improving, you may be overly optimistic. Gender bias is rarely conscious, but HR leaders should be aware of the risks surrounding discrimination to avoid conflicts, legal risks and disengaged female talent. Research confirms that female professionals are often held to a higher standard at work than their male peers. Broadly reports that not only are female lawyers held to higher ethical standards, they're also more punished and frequently disbarred than male attorneys over similar ethical violations. Furthermore, data continues to indicate that gender bias, not poor negotiation, is behind the persistent pay gap. According to McKinsey & Company , even though women negotiate for raises as often as their male peers, they face more resistance than men when doing so. McKinsey reports that less than one-third of employees feel management is accountable for gender-based outcomes. Despite the fact that many women are aware of how their gender could affect their ability to achieve their professional goals, research also reveals that even women have internalized gender biases. Business Wire reports that 77 percent of men and 55 percent of women feel that men are better leaders in important projects, and a surprising number of men and women think women simply aren't wanted in the C-suite. A culture where women are held to higher standards can result in talent attrition, as women quit for better work environments or to pursue entrepreneurial interests or contract-based work. For HR leaders, the risks of failing to turn the tide around treatment of women in the workplace can be huge. Despite data that indicates a significant amount of discrimination isn't reported, there are notable examples of organizations being held accountable. The Atlantic notes how a class action lawsuit against a well-known tech employer for systemic gender discrimination resulted in a $23.5 million settlement. To protect your organization against talent and discrimination risks, HR taking should consider the following three steps. HR can help ensure better representation in the C-suite by establishing a larger female presence in decision processes around opportunities, promotions, raises and other important aspects of the employee experience. Broadly reports that greater representation of women among decision-makers results in fewer instances where women are treated unfairly. Some of the wisest organizations are treating their gender discrimination issue like any other serious business problem. The Atlantic reports how former Coca-Cola executive Jeffery Tobias Halter sees a best-in-class approach being one that includes women in the business planning process by establishing dedicated resources, metrics and accountability. Identifying opportunities for immediate action can prevent female employees from becoming disengaged. Boston Consulting Group (BCG) reports that they recently conducted internal surveys to identify the root of lower job satisfaction among female employees. After learning that women felt they had insufficient access to apprenticeship opportunities, BCG made immediate changes to their apprenticeship model. Even if you believe your organization has made strides toward better treatment of women in the workplace, that's not always a sign that you've achieved a culture free of unequal standards. Working toward a culture where employees are provided with opportunities based on accomplishments and merit, and not gender, requires active effort and a serious commitment from senior leaders. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Jasmine Gordon

If you believe the treatment of women in the workplace is improving, you may be overly optimistic. Gender bias is rarely conscious, but HR leaders should be aware of the risks surrounding discrimination to avoid conflicts, legal risks and disengaged female talent.

How Women Are Treated in the Workplace

Research confirms that female professionals are often held to a higher standard at work than their male peers. Broadly reports that not only are female lawyers held to higher ethical standards, they're also more punished and frequently disbarred than male attorneys over similar ethical violations.

Furthermore, data continues to indicate that gender bias, not poor negotiation, is behind the persistent pay gap. According to McKinsey & Company, even though women negotiate for raises as often as their male peers, they face more resistance than men when doing so. McKinsey reports that less than one-third of employees feel management is accountable for gender-based outcomes.

Despite the fact that many women are aware of how their gender could affect their ability to achieve their professional goals, research also reveals that even women have internalized gender biases. Business Wire reports that 77 percent of men and 55 percent of women feel that men are better leaders in important projects, and a surprising number of men and women think women simply aren't wanted in the C-suite.

The Risks of Ignoring Gender-Based Discrimination

A culture where women are held to higher standards can result in talent attrition, as women quit for better work environments or to pursue entrepreneurial interests or contract-based work.

For HR leaders, the risks of failing to turn the tide around treatment of women in the workplace can be huge. Despite data that indicates a significant amount of discrimination isn't reported, there are notable examples of organizations being held accountable. The Atlantic notes how a class action lawsuit against a well-known tech employer for systemic gender discrimination resulted in a $23.5 million settlement.

3 Ways to Better Manage the Treatment of Women in the Workplace

To protect your organization against talent and discrimination risks, HR taking should consider the following three steps.

Develop Balanced Leadership

HR can help ensure better representation in the C-suite by establishing a larger female presence in decision processes around opportunities, promotions, raises and other important aspects of the employee experience. Broadly reports that greater representation of women among decision-makers results in fewer instances where women are treated unfairly.

Have an Operating Plan

Some of the wisest organizations are treating their gender discrimination issue like any other serious business problem. The Atlantic reports how former Coca-Cola executive Jeffery Tobias Halter sees a best-in-class approach being one that includes women in the business planning process by establishing dedicated resources, metrics and accountability.

Prevent Disengagement

Identifying opportunities for immediate action can prevent female employees from becoming disengaged. Boston Consulting Group (BCG) reports that they recently conducted internal surveys to identify the root of lower job satisfaction among female employees. After learning that women felt they had insufficient access to apprenticeship opportunities, BCG made immediate changes to their apprenticeship model.

Even if you believe your organization has made strides toward better treatment of women in the workplace, that's not always a sign that you've achieved a culture free of unequal standards. Working toward a culture where employees are provided with opportunities based on accomplishments and merit, and not gender, requires active effort and a serious commitment from senior leaders.