MS Dhoni's Wife Sakshi Gives It Back To Harsh Goenka After His Comments On The Former Skipper
MS Dhoni's Wife Sakshi Gives It Back To Harsh Goenka After His Comments On The Former Skipper
MS Dhoni's Wife Sakshi Gives It Back To Harsh Goenka After His Comments On The Former Skipper MS Dhoni may not have been responding to the taunts by Harsh Goenka on Twitter, but his wife is in no mood to keep silent. Sakshi responded by sending a cryptic message to Harsh by posting it on Instagram. Harsh is the brother of Rising Pune Supergiant owner Sanjiv Goenka. A post shared by Sakshi (@sakshisingh_r) on Apr 10, 2017 at 1:09am PDT   She had also shared an image in a Chennai Super Kings jersey, the team Dhoni led for 8 editions. #throwback !! A post shared by Sakshi (@sakshisingh_r) on Apr 9, 2017 at 11:40am PDT   Earlier, when he tried to prove that appointing Steve Smith as skipper over Dhoni was a good move. This happened after Pune won their opening game against Mumbai Indians. But the man did not stop there. After the to Kings XI Punjab, he took to Twitter again and shared the screenshots of the strike-rates of Pune players this season. #RPS batting statistics until now - Manoj Tiwari, Rahane , Christian have the best strike rates. pic.twitter.com/JKya3lxHKC Clearly all is not well between the two and Sakshi certainly is not tolerating any insult of her husband.

MS Dhoni may not have been responding to the taunts by Harsh Goenka on Twitter, but his wife is in no mood to keep silent.

BCCI

Sakshi responded by sending a cryptic message to Harsh by posting it on Instagram. Harsh is the brother of Rising Pune Supergiant owner Sanjiv Goenka.

A post shared by Sakshi (@sakshisingh_r) on Apr 10, 2017 at 1:09am PDT

She had also shared an image in a Chennai Super Kings jersey, the team Dhoni led for 8 editions.

#throwback !! A post shared by Sakshi (@sakshisingh_r) on Apr 9, 2017 at 11:40am PDT

Earlier, Harsh had been massively trolled when he tried to prove that appointing Steve Smith as skipper over Dhoni was a good move. This happened after Pune won their opening game against Mumbai Indians.

But the man did not stop there. After the to Kings XI Punjab, he took to Twitter again and shared the screenshots of the strike-rates of Pune players this season.

#RPS batting statistics until now - Manoj Tiwari, Rahane , Christian have the best strike rates. pic.twitter.com/JKya3lxHKC — Harsh Goenka (@hvgoenka) April 8, 2017

Clearly all is not well between the two and Sakshi certainly is not tolerating any insult of her husband.

Don't Miss 26.1 K SHARES 12.5 K SHARES 6.9 K SHARES