United CEO Oscar Munoz felt 'shame' to see passenger dragged off flight
United CEO felt 'shame' to see passenger dragged off flight 
Shares                Oscar Munoz , the CEO of Untied Airlines , today said he felt "shame" when he saw the viral video of a bloodied passenger dragged from one of his airline's flights Sunday night. "This will never happen again," Munoz told ABC News' "Good Morning America" in an exclusive interview. The passenger, David Dao of Elizabethtown, Kentucky, a 69-year-old physician specializing in pulmonary disease , is at a Chicago hospital undergoing treatment for his injuries, according to lawyers for his family. United Flight 3411, operated by Republic Airways, was set to depart Chicago's O'Hare International Airport at 5:40 p.m. local time Sunday, bound for Louisville International Airport, when the incident occurred. United told ABC News that passengers were offered up to $800 to give up their seats for four crew members who needed to board. When no one volunteered, the airline generated a list of four names to be removed from the flight and be re-accommodated, according to the airline's contract of carriage. Of the four people, Dao was the only one who refused to comply, which triggered a call to airport police. One of the officers involved was placed on leave Monday. The Chicago Department of Aviation said it did not condone the officer’s actions and that they were not in keeping with standard operating procedure. "The aviation security officer in question is on paid administrative duty pending an investigation," a spokesman for the Chicago Department of Aviation said Tuesday.     Shares                  United CEO felt 'shame' to see passenger dragged off flight   Russian foreign minister scolds Tillerson over Syria during Moscow visit   Xi stresses China's North Korea concerns in talk with Trump   Swedish couple say 11-year-old daughter died in truck attack   Spicer apologizes for Hitler-Assad comparison: 'It was insensitive and inappropriate'   Nikki Haley calls Spicer's Hitler comparison 'unfortunate'   Republican wins tight special election in Kansas for House seat   Guitarist J. Geils dead at 71, police say   Alabama ends death penalty by judicial override   Firearms stolen from gun stores spiked in 2016   Germany: Pregame blasts rock soccer team bus; player injured   1 dead, 2 injured in shooting at Ficosa plant in Tennessee   Woman finds her cat on Facebook 2 years after he went missing   7th grader wins awards for 'remarkable' cancer research   Chris Pratt tells wife Anna Faris, 'I'm grateful to have you'   Instead of dyeing Easter eggs, try decoupage   College student creates 3-page dating application for potential suitors   Teen's quest for Wendy's nuggets gets huge Twitter support   Indiana grandma marries high school prom date 64 years later   High school senior jumps out of plane for elaborate skydiving 'promposal'   Family avoids cat-astrophe after mountain lion invades home   Bat reportedly found in salad spurs CDC investigation   Definition of lazy: Man gets his takeout from his roof   US show of force to North Korea also could show US weakness   In surprise move, Iran's Ahmadinejad to run for president   Turkey: explosion at police station was 'terror attack'   'American Gangster' prosecutor pleads guilty to tax charges   Prosecutor sues governor after he took death cases from her   Suspect admits ramming truck into Stockholm crowd: Lawyer   What patients need to know about new recommendations for prostate cancer screening   Obama expected at Protestant event in Berlin next month   NFL could fine players for arm wrestling at Las Vegas casino   Penn State leader says problems could doom fraternity system   8 arrested in connection with St. Petersburg bombing   Mystery surrounds murder of Chicago judge   Judge shot to death in Chicago, manhunt on for suspect   Family of Navy SEAL trainee who died plans to take legal action   SEAL instructor will not face charges in death of trainee who drowned   Michael Buble's wife says 3-year-old son is recovering after cancer treatment   After 'Dancing With the Stars' reveal, Nancy Kerrigan discusses tragic miscarriages   Dortmund fans open doors to stranded Monaco supporters   Family urges fugitive who sent manifesto to Trump to surrender   Fans can win trip to 'Last Jedi' premiere through 'Force for Change'   Charlie Hunnam and Robert Pattinson open up about 'The Lost City of Z'   Elephant snatches bananas from Queen Elizabeth, Prince Philip

Oscar Munoz, the CEO of Untied Airlines, today said he felt "shame" when he saw the viral video of a bloodied passenger dragged from one of his airline's flights Sunday night.

"This will never happen again," Munoz told ABC News' "Good Morning America" in an exclusive interview.

The passenger, David Dao of Elizabethtown, Kentucky, a 69-year-old physician specializing in pulmonary disease, is at a Chicago hospital undergoing treatment for his injuries, according to lawyers for his family.

United Flight 3411, operated by Republic Airways, was set to depart Chicago's O'Hare International Airport at 5:40 p.m. local time Sunday, bound for Louisville International Airport, when the incident occurred.

United told ABC News that passengers were offered up to $800 to give up their seats for four crew members who needed to board.

When no one volunteered, the airline generated a list of four names to be removed from the flight and be re-accommodated, according to the airline's contract of carriage.

Of the four people, Dao was the only one who refused to comply, which triggered a call to airport police.

One of the officers involved was placed on leave Monday. The Chicago Department of Aviation said it did not condone the officer’s actions and that they were not in keeping with standard operating procedure.

"The aviation security officer in question is on paid administrative duty pending an investigation," a spokesman for the Chicago Department of Aviation said Tuesday.

ABC News’ Paul Blake contributed to this report.

This is a breaking story. Please check back for updates.