Arrest made in Germany soccer bus bombing
Arrest made in Germany soccer bus bombing
Shares               Police have made one arrest following an incident in which multiple explosions went off near the team bus of Borussia Dortmund, one of Germany's top soccer clubs, as it set off for a Champions League quarterfinal match on Tuesday evening. One of the team's players was injured in the attack. Two suspects “from the Islamist spectrum have come into the focus of the criminal prosecution,” according to authorities, and their apartments have been searched. The chief prosecutor in the investigation also provided more details about the man who was injured in the attack. "One of the passengers incurred serious injuries on his arm from a broken window pane," the chief prosecutor said in a statement. "The explosive devices were loaded with metal pins. One metal pin embedded itself in the headrest of one of the bus seats. The explosive devices had an explosive effect of more than 100 meters," the statement added.    Shares                  Arrest made in Germany soccer bus bombing   Russian foreign minister scolds Tillerson over Syria during Moscow visit   Person of interest questioned in judge's murder   Melania Trump wins damages from Daily Mail publisher   Swedish couple say 11-year-old daughter died in truck attack   Putin meets Tillerson as tensions rise over Syria   Nikki Haley calls Spicer's Hitler comparison 'unfortunate'   Federal government to partially lift hiring freeze   Moms plan to 'egg' houses on Easter for special cause   Woman finds her cat on Facebook 2 years after he went missing   7th grader wins awards for 'remarkable' cancer research   Chris Pratt tells wife Anna Faris, 'I'm grateful to have you'   Instead of dyeing Easter eggs, try decoupage   College student creates 3-page dating application for potential suitors   Teen's quest for Wendy's nuggets gets huge Twitter support   Indiana grandma marries high school prom date 64 years later   High school senior jumps out of plane for elaborate skydiving 'promposal'   Family avoids cat-astrophe after mountain lion invades home   Complaint: Manifesto suspect wrote apology before gun theft   Security reviewed at all Champions Leagues games   US show of force to North Korea also could show US weakness   In surprise move, Iran's Ahmadinejad to run for president   ANALYSIS: Spicer's Hitler gaffe complicates Trump push on Russia   Sean Spicer on Hitler gaffe: 'I've let the president down'   US senator blasts Russia for interference in Balkans   Days after death of doctor who killed wife, daughter opens up about decadelong nightmare   Utah doctor convicted of killing wife in bathtub dies   'Orange Is the New Black' season 5 trailer debuts   Guitarist J. Geils dead at 71, police say   Al-Shabab vows 'doubled response' to US move in Somalia   San Bernardino school shooting victims hailed at emotional vigil   Shia LaBeouf spending a month living alone in Finland cabin   After 'Dancing With the Stars' reveal, Nancy Kerrigan discusses tragic miscarriages   Elephant snatches bananas from Queen Elizabeth, Prince Philip

Police have made one arrest following an incident in which multiple explosions went off near the team bus of Borussia Dortmund, one of Germany's top soccer clubs, as it set off for a Champions League quarterfinal match on Tuesday evening. One of the team's players was injured in the attack.

Two suspects “from the Islamist spectrum have come into the focus of the criminal prosecution,” according to authorities, and their apartments have been searched.

The chief prosecutor in the investigation also provided more details about the man who was injured in the attack.

"One of the passengers incurred serious injuries on his arm from a broken window pane," the chief prosecutor said in a statement.

"The explosive devices were loaded with metal pins. One metal pin embedded itself in the headrest of one of the bus seats. The explosive devices had an explosive effect of more than 100 meters," the statement added.

This is a breaking story. Please check back for updates.