In A Bid To Save Cows, Madhya Pradesh Will Ban Plastic Bags From May 1
In A Bid To Save Cows, Madhya Pradesh Will Ban Plastic Bags From May 1
In A Bid To Save Cows, Madhya Pradesh Will Ban Plastic Bags From May 1 Efforts are being made to save cows across the country. At some places the self-appointed Gau Rakshaks are killing people, accusing them of being beef-eaters, while at other places, there some sincere efforts are being made to save the sacred animal. In the latest move, the Madhya Pradesh government decided on Tuesday to ban plastic and polythene bags across the state from May 1, saying it is leading to cow deaths and polluting the environment. The government had declared tourist destinations and holy cities in MP polythene-free, on January 1. Environmentalists have hailed the ban. "The state cabinet expressed concern over increasing use of polythene carry bags and their consumption in large number by the cattle resulting in their deaths. It was unanimously decided to ban polythene bags across the state from May 1," said legislative affairs and public relations minister Narottam Mishra. On Republic Day, the CM had announced a total ban on polythene from May 1. The cabinet decision came in view of directives issued by the National Green Tribunal during a hearing of a case filed by an environmentalist. When TOI spoke to a senior official of the pollution control board — the agency that will enforce the ban — he was clueless on whether only thin polyethene bags were banned. "We are yet to get the order," he said.

Efforts are being made to save cows across the country. At some places the self-appointed Gau Rakshaks are killing people, accusing them of being beef-eaters, while at other places, there some sincere efforts are being made to save the sacred animal.

In the latest move, the Madhya Pradesh government decided on Tuesday to ban plastic and polythene bags across the state from May 1, saying it is leading to cow deaths and polluting the environment.

bccl/representational image

The government had declared tourist destinations and holy cities in MP polythene-free, on January 1.

Environmentalists have hailed the ban.

Also Read: Now Madhya Pradesh Goes UP's Way As Hoshangabad Likely To Ban Meat

"The state cabinet expressed concern over increasing use of polythene carry bags and their consumption in large number by the cattle resulting in their deaths. It was unanimously decided to ban polythene bags across the state from May 1," said legislative affairs and public relations minister Narottam Mishra.

bccl/representational image

On Republic Day, the CM had announced a total ban on polythene from May 1. The cabinet decision came in view of directives issued by the National Green Tribunal during a hearing of a case filed by an environmentalist.

bccl/representational image

When TOI spoke to a senior official of the pollution control board — the agency that will enforce the ban — he was clueless on whether only thin polyethene bags were banned. "We are yet to get the order," he said.

Also Read: After Giving Special Protection To Cows With New Laws, Now Gujarat To Promote Cow-Oriented Startups

Inputs From TNN

Don't Miss 273 SHARES 1 K SHARES 82.8 K SHARES 80.9 K SHARES 36.2 K SHARES