Federal Government program hopes to keep medical specialists in regional areas



Federal Government program hopes to keep medical specialists in regional areas

Posted

More medical specialists will be able to complete their training in regional Australia as part of a Federal Government program to address shortages of health professionals in country areas.

The Government will provide funding for 26 new regional training hubs, to be coordinated by existing universities around the country.

Three extra university departments of rural health will also be set up at the University of Notre Dame in Western Australia, Charles Sturt University in New South Wales and the University of Queensland.

The new departments will focus on workforce shortages in their particular region, including nursing, midwifery and dentistry.

Assistant Health Minister David Gillespie said the move would help stem the flow of medical professionals headed to capital cities to finish their postgraduate training.

He said most people spent six to eight years completing their speciality training after graduation and many moved to metropolitan areas to do so, making it harder to entice health professionals back to the country.

"We are trying to expand the footprint in the postgraduate space so that we can flip the paradigm and for a decent proportion of those people training in the specialities, whether it's general practice or in the surgical or medical specialities, they can do it out in regional Australia," Dr Gillespie said.

"So that when somebody who has got an aspiration to live in rural and regional Australia, they don't get dragged back into the metropolitan vortex and get stuck there until they're 32 or 34, by which time they've got a partner, a partner's career, children, kids at schools.

"It's very hard to then relocate, uproot and go back out to regional Australia."

The Government has allocated $54 million to the program over the next two years.

Topics: doctors-and-medical-professionals, rural, regional, health, australia