'Detroit' trailer sends John Boyega back into the 1960s
'Detroit' trailer sends John Boyega back into the 1960s
Before John Boyega returns to the galaxy this winter, he'll be making a stop a little closer to home. The British star leads the ensemble cast of , set during the civil unrest that rocked the city in the summer of 1967. And if it's anything like director Kathryn Bigelow's last few films, including and , this one's bound to get people talking. SEE ALSO: Things you probably didn't know about 'The Hurt Locker' Also starring are Hannah Murray ( ), Will Poulter ( ), Jason Mitchell ( ), John Krasinski ( ), and Anthony Mackie ( ). Curiously missing in action? Any prominent black female characters. Hopefully the film itself will be better on that front, though (as some have already pointed out on Twitter ) the IMDb page doesn't exactly look promising. is in theaters August 4. Google's new video to push Pixel phones is going viral Optimus Prime meets his maker in the 'Transformers: The Last Knight' trailer Hear the new Gorillaz album early with their cool augmented reality app 'Star Wars: Battlefront II' trailer leaks early, looks amazing

Before John Boyega returns to the Star Wars galaxy this winter, he'll be making a stop a little closer to home.

The British star leads the ensemble cast of Detroit, set during the civil unrest that rocked the city in the summer of 1967.

And if it's anything like director Kathryn Bigelow's last few films, including The Hurt Locker and The Revenant, this one's bound to get people talking.

Also starring are Hannah Murray (Game of Thrones), Will Poulter (The Revenant), Jason Mitchell (Straight Outta Compton), John Krasinski (13 Hours), and Anthony Mackie (Captain America: Civil War).

Curiously missing in action? Any prominent black female characters. Hopefully the film itself will be better on that front, though (as some have already pointed out on Twitter) the IMDb page doesn't exactly look promising.

Detroit is in theaters August 4.