Samsung's Galaxy S8 Arrives at a Critical Time for Smartphones
Samsung's Galaxy S8 Arrives at a Critical Time for Smartphones
The Samsung Galaxy S8+ smartphone. Hi everyone, it's Mark Gurman , and I'm excited to tell you about a new show we're launching today called Gadgets With Gurman. Each week, I'll take a look at a new device, and answer your questions, give you pro-tips and tell you the best way to buy it. You can watch it on Facebook , Twitter , Bloomberg.com and the Bloomberg terminal. Our inaugural episode today will feature the new Samsung Galaxy phones , which will ship to consumers next week at a critical time not just for the company but for the entire sector as well. The consumer device market, which is dominated by smartphones, is at an inflection point. Over the past few years, there's been a lack of innovation. The smartphone hasn't been turned on its head since the first iPhone in 2007 or even the Palm Pre (remember that thing?) in 2009. Sure, Samsung moved the needle for mobile productivity with bigger screens. Google took smartphones to every corner of the earth with Android. But we've been stuck with more or less the same old smartphone style for years. This needs to change—and change soon. Even products designed to be the next category after the smartphone have either flopped or not yet taken off. Google Glass was too flimsy, the Apple Watch is yet to go mainstream, VR headsets are still too big and expensive and more stylish AR glasses are still years away. So the smartphone will remain dominant for the foreseeable future. For 2017, the first big player to show its cards is Samsung. The South Korea-based tech giant is releasing the Galaxy S8 on April 21. My first impression is that this is an awesome phone. And I think some of the S8's new features—slimmer bezels alongside a taller display, for example—will end up starting a new trend in the industry. We'll see a new iPhone this fall to mark the 10th anniversary of the iconic device, and we'll see Android creator Andy Rubin's startup Essential also launch a new phone —one that we’ve reported will combine no bezels and ceramic to create a cool new look. Until those launch, the most important blockbuster phone for 2017 is the S8, and it so far has not disappointed smartphone fans. I'll also answer your questions live on Facebook and Twitter , or you can send me your questions ahead of time. Hope to see you there.

Hi everyone, it's Mark Gurman, and I'm excited to tell you about a new show we're launching today called Gadgets With Gurman. Each week, I'll take a look at a new device, and answer your questions, give you pro-tips and tell you the best way to buy it. You can watch it on Facebook, Twitter, Bloomberg.com and the Bloomberg terminal. Our inaugural episode today will feature the new Samsung Galaxy phones, which will ship to consumers next week at a critical time not just for the company but for the entire sector as well.

The consumer device market, which is dominated by smartphones, is at an inflection point. Over the past few years, there's been a lack of innovation. The smartphone hasn't been turned on its head since the first iPhone in 2007 or even the Palm Pre (remember that thing?) in 2009.

Sure, Samsung moved the needle for mobile productivity with bigger screens. Google took smartphones to every corner of the earth with Android. But we've been stuck with more or less the same old smartphone style for years.

This needs to change—and change soon. Even products designed to be the next category after the smartphone have either flopped or not yet taken off. Google Glass was too flimsy, the Apple Watch is yet to go mainstream, VR headsets are still too big and expensive and more stylish AR glasses are still years away. So the smartphone will remain dominant for the foreseeable future.

For 2017, the first big player to show its cards is Samsung. The South Korea-based tech giant is releasing the Galaxy S8 on April 21. My first impression is that this is an awesome phone. And I think some of the S8's new features—slimmer bezels alongside a taller display, for example—will end up starting a new trend in the industry.

We'll see a new iPhone this fall to mark the 10th anniversary of the iconic device, and we'll see Android creator Andy Rubin's startup Essential also launch a new phone—one that we’ve reported will combine no bezels and ceramic to create a cool new look.

Until those launch, the most important blockbuster phone for 2017 is the S8, and it so far has not disappointed smartphone fans. On my new series today, at 12:30 p.m. PT/3:30 p.m. ET, I'll reveal more. I'll also answer your questions live on Facebook and Twitter, or you can send me your questions ahead of time. Hope to see you there.

A version of this article also ran on Bloomberg Technology's newsletter Fully Charged. Sign up here.