Miami Dolphins receiver Jarvis Landry predicts sweep of New England Patriots
Dolphins WR Landry predicts sweep of Patriots
Dolphins WR Landry predicts sweep of Patriots Mark Sanchez picks 6; Bears fans may not be done booing Jay Cutler's number 49ers' new regime sent message with Tramaine Brock's swift release In Redskins' GM search, other teams provide a blueprint for success Relocation. Relocation. Relocation. The Raiders' new home, Vegas, is over 30 percent Hispanic Coty Sensabaugh brings 'eye-opening' water mission to Steelers It might be Von Miller's time to be Broncos' captain Ravens request to skip post-London bye, save break for later Biggest remaining hole for every NFL team Few recent draft picks are still with teams that drafted them Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment A Temple graduate and Hyattsville, Maryland, native who lives in Miami Joined ESPN in 2008 Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The first bold prediction of the 2017 season comes from the Miami Dolphins and their leading receiver Jarvis Landry . Miami's two-time Pro Bowler told a London crowd over the weekend that the Dolphins will sweep the reigning Super Bowl champion New England Patriots this upcoming season. Landry followed up his comments in an interview with Sports Illustrated's "Monday Morning Quarterback." "If you're a competitor, that's the way you should feel, and I don't mind saying it," Landry said. "It's time for a change. I have all the respect in the world for the Patriots, and I respect Tom Brady tremendously. But they're not our big brother anymore." Despite Miami going 10-6, New England swept the Dolphins in two games last season. The Patriots also have won the AFC East Division eight consecutive years and 14 of the past 16 seasons. According ESPN Stats & Information, the Patriots are the only team in the NFL that hasn't been swept by a divisional opponent in a single regular season since 2002 (current division format). Every other team has at least three such instances. Landry is one of Miami's most competitive players and an emotional leader. Perhaps he is trying to set the tone and expectations early with Dolphins players, who are due to report for the start of their offseason workout program Monday. "It's ridiculous. It's a problem," Landry said of New England's dominance. "We cannot let that happen anymore. What I've seen is, when we play that game, sometimes we focus on the guys on the other side of the line instead of just focusing on us. And I want to be part of that change. I want to go into the games against New England expecting to win -- that's something we need to do." Miami has some business of its own to take care of with Landry. He's entering the final year of his rookie contract and both sides are expected to work out an extension before the start of the season. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The first bold prediction of the 2017 season comes from the Miami Dolphins and their leading receiver Jarvis Landry.

Miami's two-time Pro Bowler told a London crowd over the weekend that the Dolphins will sweep the reigning Super Bowl champion New England Patriots this upcoming season. Landry followed up his comments in an interview with Sports Illustrated's "Monday Morning Quarterback."

"If you're a competitor, that's the way you should feel, and I don't mind saying it," Landry said. "It's time for a change. I have all the respect in the world for the Patriots, and I respect Tom Brady tremendously. But they're not our big brother anymore."

Despite Miami going 10-6, New England swept the Dolphins in two games last season. The Patriots also have won the AFC East Division eight consecutive years and 14 of the past 16 seasons.

According ESPN Stats & Information, the Patriots are the only team in the NFL that hasn't been swept by a divisional opponent in a single regular season since 2002 (current division format). Every other team has at least three such instances.

Jarvis Landry scores a touchdown against the Patriots last season. Reinhold Matay/USA TODAY Sports

Landry is one of Miami's most competitive players and an emotional leader. Perhaps he is trying to set the tone and expectations early with Dolphins players, who are due to report for the start of their offseason workout program Monday.

"It's ridiculous. It's a problem," Landry said of New England's dominance. "We cannot let that happen anymore. What I've seen is, when we play that game, sometimes we focus on the guys on the other side of the line instead of just focusing on us. And I want to be part of that change. I want to go into the games against New England expecting to win -- that's something we need to do."

Miami has some business of its own to take care of with Landry. He's entering the final year of his rookie contract and both sides are expected to work out an extension before the start of the season.