Future Unveils 'Mask Off' Artwork on Instagram Stories
Future Unveils 'Mask Off' Artwork on Instagram Stories
Future Unveils 'Mask Off' Artwork on Instagram Stories  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Future is striking while the iron is hot. With "Mask Off" rapidly climbing the Billboard Hot 100 (it jumps No. 18-11 this week), the Atlanta rapper released the artwork for his smooth single on Instagram Stories. The artwork displays a picture of Future in black-and-white with his hand covering one side of his face. "Mask Off" lives on Future's eponymous fifth album and has quickly become a social-media phenomenon. The track is produced by Metro Boomin', and a slew of talented artists ignited the #MaskOffChallenge online. The challenge highlightsÂ musicians from different backgrounds tackling the flute-driven instrumental. Earlier this week, "Mask Off" went gold by selling more than 500,000 units.Â Last month, Joey Bada$$ flexed his lyrical muscles when he pounced on the Metro Boomin' beat during a radio freestyle.Â  This May, Future is slated to embark on his Nobody Safe Tour, with Migos and Tory Lanez. Earlier this year, he notched an unprecedented feat when he earned back-to-back No 1 albums in consecutive weeks. Take a look at the artwork forÂ "Mask Off"Â below:   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Future is striking while the iron is hot. With "Mask Off" rapidly climbing the Billboard Hot 100 (it jumps No. 18-11 this week), the Atlanta rapper released the artwork for his smooth single on Instagram Stories.

The artwork displays a picture of Future in black-and-white with his hand covering one side of his face. "Mask Off" lives on Future's eponymous fifth album and has quickly become a social-media phenomenon. The track is produced by Metro Boomin', and a slew of talented artists ignited the #MaskOffChallenge online. The challenge highlightsÂ musicians from different backgrounds tackling the flute-driven instrumental. Earlier this week, "Mask Off" went gold by selling more than 500,000 units.Â

Last month, Joey Bada$$ flexed his lyrical muscles when he pounced on the Metro Boomin' beat during a radio freestyle.Â

This May, Future is slated to embark on his Nobody Safe Tour, with Migos and Tory Lanez. Earlier this year, he notched an unprecedented feat when he earned back-to-back No 1 albums in consecutive weeks.

Take a look at the artwork forÂ "Mask Off"Â below: