Charlie Murphy, Actor and Comedian, Dies at 57: Report
Charlie Murphy, Actor and Comedian, Dies at 57: Report
Charlie Murphy, Actor and Comedian, Dies at 57: Report  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Charlie Murphy, famed actor and comedian, has reportedly died in an NYC hospital. According to TMZ , Murphy's manager revealed that the star had been suffering from leukemia, and had been undergoing chemotherapy. He was 57 years old. Though Murphy spent much of his career in the shadow of his younger brother, film and TV superstar Eddie Murphy, he eventually became a renowned comedic actor in his own right. His initial breakthrough came in movies like 1993's and 2005's , but he became a phenomenon for his mid-'00s work on , where he served as narrator of the recurring "Charlie Murphy's True Hollywood Stories" segment, telling classic stories about his memorable encounters with '80s icons like Prince and Rick James.  Post- -- where he also worked as a writer -- Murphy got further film work in hit movies like 2006's , and became a frequent guest voice on television; particularly on animated Adult Swim shows like , and . He also began a successful career in stand-up, getting his own special ( ) on Comedy Central in 2010. has reached out for confirmation and further comment.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Charlie Murphy, famed actor and comedian, has reportedly died in an NYC hospital. According to TMZ, Murphy's manager revealed that the Chappelle's Show star had been suffering from leukemia, and had been undergoing chemotherapy. He was 57 years old.

Though Murphy spent much of his career in the shadow of his younger brother, film and TV superstar Eddie Murphy, he eventually became a renowned comedic actor in his own right. His initial breakthrough came in movies like 1993's CB4 and 2005's Kings Ransom, but he became a phenomenon for his mid-'00s work on Chappelle's Show, where he served as narrator of the recurring "Charlie Murphy's True Hollywood Stories" segment, telling classic stories about his memorable encounters with '80s icons like Prince and Rick James.

Post-Chappelle's Show -- where he also worked as a writer -- Murphy got further film work in hit movies like 2006's Night at the Museum, and became a frequent guest voice on television; particularly on animated Adult Swim shows like The Boondocks, Black Dynamite and Black Jesus. He also began a successful career in stand-up, getting his own special (Charlie Murphy: I Will Not Apologize) on Comedy Central in 2010.

Billboard has reached out for confirmation and further comment.