Marc Bartra out for 'several weeks' after surgery on injury from Borussia Dortmund bus explosions
Marc Bartra out for 'several weeks' after surgery on injury from Borussia Dortmund bus explosions
orussia Dortmund's Marc Bartra has thanked those who have sent him messages after being injured in last night's attack on his team's bus . The defender required surgery on his right arm and wrist after being wounded in the incident. Dortmund say the Spain defender will be out of action for "several weeks" after being wounded when his team bus was hit by three explosions while going to a Champions League match. He Instagram message read: "Hello everybody! As you can see I am doing much better. Thank you everybody for all your support and your messages! All my strength to my team mates, supporters and fans and to BVB for tonight's match!" Dortmund said Wednesday that Bartra had to have an operation on his arm and wrist after the attack Tuesday night but say it went well. The club added the 26-year-old will watch the Champions League quarter-final match between his team and Monaco on television Wednesday evening and "is keeping his fingers crossed for his colleagues."  Hola a todos! Como veis ya estoy mucho mejor, muchas gracias a todo el mundo por los mensajes de apoyo! Toda mi fuerza a mis compañeros, afición y todo el @bvb09 el partido de esta noche! #HejaBVB Hello everybody! As you can see I am doing much better. Thank you everybody for all your support and your messages! All my strength to my team mates, supporters and fans and to @bvb09 for tonight's match! #HejaBVB A post shared by Marc Bartra (@marcbartra) on he match was originally scheduled for Tuesday evening but was pushed back a day after the attack. Prosecutors say the explosive devices used in the bus attack contained metal pins, one of which buried its way into a headrest on the bus. European soccer authority UEFA said it was reviewing security for Wednesday's Champions League matches and would increase it where necessary, a day after explosions hit the Borussia Dortmund team bus. EFA said in a statement there had been no specific intelligence regarding any threat to Wednesday's matches. hey include the rescheduled Dortmund/Monaco game, while Bayern Munich are due to host Real Madrid in Germany with Atletico Madrid at home to Leiceister City in Spain. our ties in the secondary Europa League competition are due to be played Thursday with matches in Lyon, Amsterdam, Brussels and the Spanish city of Vigo. "UEFA – in co-operation with the police, security services, stadium management and the clubs involved – is reviewing the security arrangements for tonight’s matches and security procedures will be enhanced accordingly wherever needed," it said. Giorgio Marchetti, UEFA's competitions director, told Reuters television that it was the first such incident the European soccer body had to deal with. "And no, we have not received any information regarding this type of attack, prior to the match," he said at UEFA headquarters. "We have already asked the clubs to review, with the police, their security arrangements and measures to guarantee the safety and security of all those involved today and also tomorrow." He said that there would be "more body searches" at the Dortmund game. "Backpacks will not be admitted into the stadium, there will be restriction for the car parking and of course, more stewards and more policemen around."

Borussia Dortmund's Marc Bartra has thanked those who have sent him messages after being injured in last night's attack on his team's bus.

The defender required surgery on his right arm and wrist after being wounded in the incident.

Dortmund say the Spain defender will be out of action for "several weeks" after being wounded when his team bus was hit by three explosions while going to a Champions League match.

He Instagram message read: "Hello everybody! As you can see I am doing much better. Thank you everybody for all your support and your messages! All my strength to my team mates, supporters and fans and to BVB for tonight's match!"

Dortmund said Wednesday that Bartra had to have an operation on his arm and wrist after the attack Tuesday night but say it went well. The club added the 26-year-old will watch the Champions League quarter-final match between his team and Monaco on television Wednesday evening and "is keeping his fingers crossed for his colleagues."