What you need to know about NATO as Trump meets with its secretary general
What you need to know about NATO as Trump meets with its secretary general
Shares               President Trump will meet with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg at the White House today, the first in-person meeting for the two leaders. Mike Pence, in his first overseas trip as vice president in February, sought to reassure European allies at NATO headquarters in Brussels that America will honor its security commitments and has "strong support" for NATO, despite Trump's casting doubt on the U.S. role in the organization as recently as January. In an interview with The Times of London, then-President-elect Trump repeated his view that NATO was "obsolete," raising doubts about whether the United States, under his leadership, would jump to the defense of its NATO allies in Europe if Russia attacked them. “I said a long time ago that NATO had problems. Number one it was obsolete, because it was designed many, many years ago. Number two the countries aren’t paying what they’re supposed to pay," Trump said in January. "I took such heat, when I said NATO was obsolete. It’s obsolete because it wasn’t taking care of terror. I took a lot of heat for two days. And then they started saying Trump is right." In July, when specifically asked in an interview with The New York Times about his views of Russia, Trump said that if it attacked some of the small Baltic states, which are the most recent members of NATO, he would decide whether to come to their aid only after reviewing whether those nations "have fulfilled their obligations to us."     Pence tried to assuage European fears with a new message, saying during his trip, "It is my privilege here at NATO headquarters to express the strong support of President Trump and the United States of America to NATO and our transatlantic alliance." "This alliance plays a crucial role in promoting peace and prosperity in the north Atlantic and frankly in the entire world," he added. Pence's words come after Defense Secretary James Mattis also affirmed "the full U.S. commitment to NATO" during his meetings in Brussels.   But one European official wasn't letting the new administration forget President Trump's criticisms of NATO. European Union Council President Donald Turk said in February that "too many new and sometimes surprising opinions have been voiced over this time about our relations -- and our common security -- for us to pretend that everything is as it used to be." "We are counting as always in the past on the United States' wholehearted and unequivocal -- let me repeat, unequivocal -- support for the idea of a united Europe," Tusk said. "The world would be a decidedly worse place if Europe were not united." "The idea of NATO is not obsolete, just like the values which lie at its foundation are not obsolete," he added. So, what exactly is NATO? ABC News breaks down the organization’s history, importance and criticisms below:  What is NATO? NATO stands for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a security alliance established in 1949 during the early days of the Cold War to counter Soviet aggression in Europe. Now numbering 28 countries in Europe and North America, the alliance’s goal is to “safeguard the freedom and security of its members through political and military means,” NATO’s website reads. The organization promotes “democratic values” and encourages member nations to work together on issues of defense and security to prevent long-term conflict. When security disputes occur, NATO advocates peaceful resolutions. But there are guidelines for how military force can be used, outlined in Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, the founding treaty of NATO. NATO adheres to a policy of collective defense, meaning an attack on one member is considered "an attack against all." The policy is outlined in Article 5 and has only been invoked once, after the Twin Towers in New York City were attacked Sept. 11, 2001, and NATO members sent troops to Afghanistan. After the Taliban fell, a United Nations Security Council resolution established the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), under NATO’s control, to stabilize the country. There were 1,044 non-U.S. NATO service members killed fighting in Afghanistan.    How does NATO work? Headquartered in Brussels, Belgium, each member nation is represented by an ambassador that sits on the North Atlantic Council (NAC), the alliance’s political decision-making body. The NAC meets at least once a week and is chaired by Secretary General Stoltenberg, the former prime minister of Norway. When political decisions require the military, NATO’s Military Committee is involved in the planning and resourcing of military elements needed for an operation. While NATO has few permanent military forces, member nations can voluntarily contribute forces when the need arises. The Military Committee is made up of the Chiefs of Defense of NATO-member countries; the International Military Staff, the Military Committee’s executive body; and the military command structure, composed of Allied Command Operations and Allied Command Transformation.  Where is NATO operating right now? Currently, NATO’s website lists five active operations and missions: Afghanistan, Kosovo, counter-piracy off of East Africa, monitoring the Mediterranean, and supporting the African Union.  Who pays for NATO? NATO recommends that member countries spend 2 percent of their gross domestic product ( GDP ) on defense. Currently, only five members meet that goal: the United States, Great Britain, Greece, Estonia and Poland. In January's interview with The Times, Trump mentioned the five, saying, "There’s five countries that are paying what they’re supposed to. Five. It’s not much.” Latvia and Lithuania are two Baltic states that don't meet the target, but those countries are likely to raise their defense spending in the face of growing Russian aggression. During his trip to NATO headquarters, Vice President Pence repeated Trump's desire for all NATO members to pay their fair share, telling nations who don't have a plan to increase their defense spending to "get one." And Jens Stoltenberg, NATO's Secretary General, has emphasized in his remarks that, in 2016, defense spending increased in Europe and Canada by 3.8 percent in real terms, or 10 billion U.S. dollars. "We still have a long way to go," Stoltenberg admitted.  What is the history behind its origin? The North Atlantic Treaty was signed April 4, 1949, in the aftermath of World War II and rising geopolitical tension with the Soviet Union. NATO’s website lists three purposes for its creation: “deterring Soviet expansionism, forbidding the revival of nationalist militarism in Europe through a strong North American presence on the continent, and encouraging European political integration.”   As the Cold War settled in, NATO stood in opposition to the Soviet bloc, communist nations that allied with the Soviet Union. In 1991, after the Soviet Union dissolved, NATO developed partnerships with former adversaries. NATO responded to its first major crisis response operation in 1995 in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the Bosnian civil war. More recently, NATO responded to the Libyan crisis in 2011 by carrying out airstrikes to protect civilians under attack by the Gaddafi regime.  Is Trump alone in his criticism of NATO? No. Trump isn’t the first to criticize other NATO members for contributing less than the United States. In 2011, Defense Secretary Robert Gates called the future of NATO “dim” if other nations didn’t increase their participation in allied activities. “The blunt reality is that there will be dwindling appetite and patience in the U.S. Congress -- and in the American body politic writ large -- to expend increasingly precious funds on behalf of nations that are apparently unwilling to devote the necessary resources or make the necessary changes to be serious and capable partners in their own defense,” he said. It should be noted that Gates made these comments prior to Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014 and escalating regional tension there. NATO’s history is fraught with waves of criticism, often in moments of relative peace. After the fall of the Soviet Union, critics alleged that a European alliance was no longer necessary to counter communist governments. But militant nationalism was still occurring and soon NATO was put to the test with the Balkan Wars. Indeed, changing security threats have consistently pushed NATO to evolve over the past 60 years. But NATO’s website perhaps provides the best defense of itself: “Since its founding in 1949, the transatlantic Alliance’s flexibility, embedded in its original Treaty, has allowed it to suit the different requirements of different times. In the 1950s, the Alliance was a purely defensive organization. In the 1960s, NATO became a political instrument for détente. In the 1990s, the Alliance was a tool for the stabilization of Eastern Europe and Central Asia through the incorporation of new Partners and Allies. Now NATO has a new mission: extending peace through the strategic projection of security." “This is not a mission of choice, but of necessity. The Allies neither invented nor desired it. Events themselves have forced this mission upon them. Nation-state failure and violent extremism may well be the defining threats of the first half of the 21st century. Only a vigorously coordinated international response can address them. This is our common challenge. As the foundation stone of transatlantic peace, NATO must be ready to meet it.”  Shares                  What you need to know about NATO as Trump meets with its secretary general   President Trump on NATO: 'It's no longer obsolete'   Man charged in murder of Chicago judge   Manifesto suspect stole machine gun, drafted apology to gun store, prosecutors say   North Miami police officer charged in July 2016 shooting of caretaker of man with autism   Melania Trump wins damages from Daily Mail publisher   Wildlife conservationists sue over proposed border wall   Clinton lauds free NY tuition plan as a progressive first   Swedish couple says 11-year-old daughter died in truck attack   Dad runs Boston Marathon to honor unborn daughter with Down syndrome   Quiet rooms for autistic children popping up at airports   Moms plan to 'egg' houses on Easter for special cause   Woman finds her cat on Facebook 2 years after he went missing   7th grader wins awards for 'remarkable' cancer research   Chris Pratt tells wife Anna Faris, 'I'm grateful to have you'   Instead of dyeing Easter eggs, try decoupage   College student creates 3-page dating application for potential suitors   Teen's quest for Wendy's nuggets gets huge Twitter support   Complaint: Manifesto suspect wrote apology before gun theft   Security reviewed at all Champions Leagues games   Hard-line ex-leader Ahmadinejad stuns Iran with election bid   Prosecutor: 'Manchester by the Sea' inspired duo to kill son   A closer look at Carter Page, the Trump associate who was under FBI scrutiny   Trump won't say if he has confidence in Bannon: Report   ANALYSIS: Spicer's Hitler gaffe complicates Trump push on Russia   Days after death of doctor who killed wife, daughter opens up about decadelong nightmare   Utah doctor convicted of killing wife in bathtub dies   Khloe Kardashian would say yes if boyfriend Tristan Thompson proposed   US show of force to North Korea also could show US weakness   Boy killed in classroom was 'happy child' with rare disorder   Josh Brolin cast as Cable in 'Deadpool 2'   Kerrigan talks eating disorder she developed after '94 attack   Guitarist J. Geils dead at 71, police say

President Trump will meet with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg at the White House today, the first in-person meeting for the two leaders.

Mike Pence, in his first overseas trip as vice president in February, sought to reassure European allies at NATO headquarters in Brussels that America will honor its security commitments and has "strong support" for NATO, despite Trump's casting doubt on the U.S. role in the organization as recently as January.

In an interview with The Times of London, then-President-elect Trump repeated his view that NATO was "obsolete," raising doubts about whether the United States, under his leadership, would jump to the defense of its NATO allies in Europe if Russia attacked them.

“I said a long time ago that NATO had problems. Number one it was obsolete, because it was designed many, many years ago. Number two the countries aren’t paying what they’re supposed to pay," Trump said in January. "I took such heat, when I said NATO was obsolete. It’s obsolete because it wasn’t taking care of terror. I took a lot of heat for two days. And then they started saying Trump is right."

In July, when specifically asked in an interview with The New York Times about his views of Russia, Trump said that if it attacked some of the small Baltic states, which are the most recent members of NATO, he would decide whether to come to their aid only after reviewing whether those nations "have fulfilled their obligations to us."

Pence tried to assuage European fears with a new message, saying during his trip, "It is my privilege here at NATO headquarters to express the strong support of President Trump and the United States of America to NATO and our transatlantic alliance."

"This alliance plays a crucial role in promoting peace and prosperity in the north Atlantic and frankly in the entire world," he added.

Pence's words come after Defense Secretary James Mattis also affirmed "the full U.S. commitment to NATO" during his meetings in Brussels.

AFP/Getty Images

But one European official wasn't letting the new administration forget President Trump's criticisms of NATO.

European Union Council President Donald Turk said in February that "too many new and sometimes surprising opinions have been voiced over this time about our relations -- and our common security -- for us to pretend that everything is as it used to be."

"We are counting as always in the past on the United States' wholehearted and unequivocal -- let me repeat, unequivocal -- support for the idea of a united Europe," Tusk said. "The world would be a decidedly worse place if Europe were not united."

"The idea of NATO is not obsolete, just like the values which lie at its foundation are not obsolete," he added.

So, what exactly is NATO? ABC News breaks down the organization’s history, importance and criticisms below:

What is NATO?

NATO stands for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, a security alliance established in 1949 during the early days of the Cold War to counter Soviet aggression in Europe.

Now numbering 28 countries in Europe and North America, the alliance’s goal is to “safeguard the freedom and security of its members through political and military means,” NATO’s website reads.

The organization promotes “democratic values” and encourages member nations to work together on issues of defense and security to prevent long-term conflict.

When security disputes occur, NATO advocates peaceful resolutions. But there are guidelines for how military force can be used, outlined in Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, the founding treaty of NATO.

NATO adheres to a policy of collective defense, meaning an attack on one member is considered "an attack against all." The policy is outlined in Article 5 and has only been invoked once, after the Twin Towers in New York City were attacked Sept. 11, 2001, and NATO members sent troops to Afghanistan.

After the Taliban fell, a United Nations Security Council resolution established the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), under NATO’s control, to stabilize the country. There were 1,044 non-U.S. NATO service members killed fighting in Afghanistan.

Geert Vanden Wijngaert/AP Photo

How does NATO work?

Headquartered in Brussels, Belgium, each member nation is represented by an ambassador that sits on the North Atlantic Council (NAC), the alliance’s political decision-making body. The NAC meets at least once a week and is chaired by Secretary General Stoltenberg, the former prime minister of Norway.

When political decisions require the military, NATO’s Military Committee is involved in the planning and resourcing of military elements needed for an operation. While NATO has few permanent military forces, member nations can voluntarily contribute forces when the need arises.

The Military Committee is made up of the Chiefs of Defense of NATO-member countries; the International Military Staff, the Military Committee’s executive body; and the military command structure, composed of Allied Command Operations and Allied Command Transformation.

Where is NATO operating right now?

Currently, NATO’s website lists five active operations and missions: Afghanistan, Kosovo, counter-piracy off of East Africa, monitoring the Mediterranean, and supporting the African Union.

Who pays for NATO?

NATO recommends that member countries spend 2 percent of their gross domestic product (GDP) on defense.

Currently, only five members meet that goal: the United States, Great Britain, Greece, Estonia and Poland.

In January's interview with The Times, Trump mentioned the five, saying, "There’s five countries that are paying what they’re supposed to. Five. It’s not much.”

Latvia and Lithuania are two Baltic states that don't meet the target, but those countries are likely to raise their defense spending in the face of growing Russian aggression.

During his trip to NATO headquarters, Vice President Pence repeated Trump's desire for all NATO members to pay their fair share, telling nations who don't have a plan to increase their defense spending to "get one."

And Jens Stoltenberg, NATO's Secretary General, has emphasized in his remarks that, in 2016, defense spending increased in Europe and Canada by 3.8 percent in real terms, or 10 billion U.S. dollars.

"We still have a long way to go," Stoltenberg admitted.

What is the history behind its origin?

The North Atlantic Treaty was signed April 4, 1949, in the aftermath of World War II and rising geopolitical tension with the Soviet Union.

NATO’s website lists three purposes for its creation: “deterring Soviet expansionism, forbidding the revival of nationalist militarism in Europe through a strong North American presence on the continent, and encouraging European political integration.”

AP Photo

As the Cold War settled in, NATO stood in opposition to the Soviet bloc, communist nations that allied with the Soviet Union.

In 1991, after the Soviet Union dissolved, NATO developed partnerships with former adversaries.

NATO responded to its first major crisis response operation in 1995 in Bosnia and Herzegovina after the Bosnian civil war.

More recently, NATO responded to the Libyan crisis in 2011 by carrying out airstrikes to protect civilians under attack by the Gaddafi regime.

Is Trump alone in his criticism of NATO?

No. Trump isn’t the first to criticize other NATO members for contributing less than the United States.

In 2011, Defense Secretary Robert Gates called the future of NATO “dim” if other nations didn’t increase their participation in allied activities.

“The blunt reality is that there will be dwindling appetite and patience in the U.S. Congress -- and in the American body politic writ large -- to expend increasingly precious funds on behalf of nations that are apparently unwilling to devote the necessary resources or make the necessary changes to be serious and capable partners in their own defense,” he said.

It should be noted that Gates made these comments prior to Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014 and escalating regional tension there.

NATO’s history is fraught with waves of criticism, often in moments of relative peace. After the fall of the Soviet Union, critics alleged that a European alliance was no longer necessary to counter communist governments. But militant nationalism was still occurring and soon NATO was put to the test with the Balkan Wars. Indeed, changing security threats have consistently pushed NATO to evolve over the past 60 years.

But NATO’s website perhaps provides the best defense of itself:

“Since its founding in 1949, the transatlantic Alliance’s flexibility, embedded in its original Treaty, has allowed it to suit the different requirements of different times. In the 1950s, the Alliance was a purely defensive organization. In the 1960s, NATO became a political instrument for détente. In the 1990s, the Alliance was a tool for the stabilization of Eastern Europe and Central Asia through the incorporation of new Partners and Allies. Now NATO has a new mission: extending peace through the strategic projection of security."

“This is not a mission of choice, but of necessity. The Allies neither invented nor desired it. Events themselves have forced this mission upon them. Nation-state failure and violent extremism may well be the defining threats of the first half of the 21st century. Only a vigorously coordinated international response can address them. This is our common challenge. As the foundation stone of transatlantic peace, NATO must be ready to meet it.”

ABC News' Brian McBride contributed to this report.