Atlanta Braves foam tomahawks spill onto highway, cause traffic delays
Braves foam tomahawks spill onto Atlanta highway, cause traffic delays
Braves foam tomahawks spill onto Atlanta highway, cause traffic delays Olney: Four-man outfield is coming to a ballpark near you Will Jean Afterman be baseball's first female GM? The sport should be so lucky Real or not? Mets the best power-hitting team and Tribe has top trio Top MLB DFS building blocks for Wednesday Power Rankings: One week in, Cubs still on top MLB's 2017 holiday uniforms Don't change the channel with these players up to bat Emmett Ashford, first black umpire in the majors, makes his debut It's a new year -- and Joey Votto has come out swinging MLB fan survey: Is baseball boring and other burning questions Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Welcome to Atlanta, where traffic jams are inevitable -- and that apparently includes delays caused by foam tomahawks. Yes, you read that correctly. Around 11 a.m. Wednesday, boxes of Atlanta Braves foam tomahawks fell from a truck, blocking the two left lanes of I-75 south, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported . The incident occurred less than 10 minutes from the Braves' new home at SunTrust Park. Delays lasted for almost an hour. Debris: I-75/sb south of Windy Hill Rd;  Atlanta Braves foam tomahawks in the two left lanes; delays; https://t.co/oChLshdbT4  #ATLtraffic  pic.twitter.com/z20AqYOiUW — AJC WSB Traffic (@ajcwsbtraffic) April 12, 2017 The Braves play the inaugural game at SunTrust Park on Friday against the San Diego Padres . Hopefully, all foam tomahawks will arrive safe and sound by then. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Welcome to Atlanta, where traffic jams are inevitable -- and that apparently includes delays caused by foam tomahawks. Yes, you read that correctly.

Around 11 a.m. Wednesday, boxes of Atlanta Braves foam tomahawks fell from a truck, blocking the two left lanes of I-75 south, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.

The incident occurred less than 10 minutes from the Braves' new home at SunTrust Park. Delays lasted for almost an hour.

Debris: I-75/sb south of Windy Hill Rd; Atlanta Braves foam tomahawks in the two left lanes; delays; https://t.co/oChLshdbT4 #ATLtraffic pic.twitter.com/z20AqYOiUW — AJC WSB Traffic (@ajcwsbtraffic) April 12, 2017

The Braves play the inaugural game at SunTrust Park on Friday against the San Diego Padres. Hopefully, all foam tomahawks will arrive safe and sound by then.

-- Alex Tekip