Jamiroquai Jumps Onto Dance/Electronic Albums Charts With 'Automaton'
Jamiroquai Jumps Onto Dance/Electronic Albums Charts With 'Automaton'
Jamiroquai Jumps Onto Dance/Electronic Albums Charts With 'Automaton'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Plus, bows for Yellow Claw, Calvin Harris, Cheat Codes & Demi Lovato. Jamiroquai earns its second No. 1 on 's Dance/Electronic Album Sales chart as debuts atop the list (dated April 22) with 6,000 albums sold, according to Nielsen Music. The sales help push the album to a No. 2 debut on the consumption-based Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart, Jamiroquai's third top five entry. reigned in 2001 and blasted in at No. 2 in 2005. The set marks Jamiroquai's first appearance on the Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart since 2012's , which reached No. 17. The funk vets also debut on the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart at No. 46 with "Cloud 9"; the new LP's title track hit No. 31 in February. Elsewhere on Top Dance/Electronic Albums, Yellow Claw snags a No. 3 debut with its sophomore studio album (5,000 units). On Hot Dance/Electronic Songs, the set's "Open," featuring Moksi and Jonna Fraser, and "Good Day," featuring DJ Snake and Elliphant, rank at Nos. 39 and 40, respectively. Speaking of the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart, Calvin Harris and Cheat Codes each debut new songs in the top 15. Harris' "Heatstroke," featuring Young Thug , Pharrell Williams and Ariana Grande , makes the week's highest bow (No. 13). It sold 18,000 downloads in its first week and also debuts at No. 6 on the Dance/Electronic Digital Song Sales chart. "Heatstroke" is Harris' 22nd entry on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs, tying him with David Guetta for the third-most in the chart's five-year history. Skrillex leads with 25, followed by Avicii, with 24. Cheat Codes' "No Promises," featuring Demi Lovato , opens at No. 14 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs after pushing 16,000 downloads in its first week (also good for a No. 8 debut on Dance/Electronic Digital Song Sales). With the collab, Lovato score her first visit to Hot Dance/Electronic Songs.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Plus, bows for Yellow Claw, Calvin Harris, Cheat Codes & Demi Lovato.

Jamiroquai earns its second No. 1 on Billboard's Dance/Electronic Album Sales chart as Automaton debuts atop the list (dated April 22) with 6,000 albums sold, according to Nielsen Music. The sales help push the album to a No. 2 debut on the consumption-based Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart, Jamiroquai's third top five entry. A Funk Odyssey reigned in 2001 and Dynamite blasted in at No. 2 in 2005.



The set marks Jamiroquai's first appearance on the Top Dance/Electronic Albums chart since 2012's Rock Dust Light Star, which reached No. 17. The funk vets also debut on the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart at No. 46 with "Cloud 9"; the new LP's title track hit No. 31 in February.



Elsewhere on Top Dance/Electronic Albums, Yellow Claw snags a No. 3 debut with its sophomore studio album Los Amsterdam (5,000 units). On Hot Dance/Electronic Songs, the set's "Open," featuring Moksi and Jonna Fraser, and "Good Day," featuring DJ Snake and Elliphant, rank at Nos. 39 and 40, respectively.

Speaking of the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart, Calvin Harris and Cheat Codes each debut new songs in the top 15. Harris' "Heatstroke," featuring Young Thug, Pharrell Williams and Ariana Grande, makes the week's highest bow (No. 13). It sold 18,000 downloads in its first week and also debuts at No. 6 on the Dance/Electronic Digital Song Sales chart.



"Heatstroke" is Harris' 22nd entry on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs, tying him with David Guetta for the third-most in the chart's five-year history. Skrillex leads with 25, followed by Avicii, with 24.



Cheat Codes' "No Promises," featuring Demi Lovato, opens at No. 14 on Hot Dance/Electronic Songs after pushing 16,000 downloads in its first week (also good for a No. 8 debut on Dance/Electronic Digital Song Sales). With the collab, Lovato score her first visit to Hot Dance/Electronic Songs.