Men Are Injecting Their Balls With Botox in Disturbing New Trend
Men Are Injecting Their Balls With Botox in Disturbing New Trend
Everyone falls victim to trends at some point. Whether you were one of the millions of people wearing Livestrong bracelets during Lance Armstrong's peak or you're a woman appreciating the choker revival of the last couple years, you've probably been involved with some sort of hard-to-explain craze. And if you're a man who likes to keep up with the times, boy do we have a new trend for you. Plastic surgery has become increasingly common since the turn of the century, but a new procedure focuses on a body part most men hide on a daily basis: their balls. That's right, for the low price of around $1,000, apparently you can live out your dreams and be the man with the smoothest balls on the block. Here's what the procedure is like, according to a doctor who spoke with : The procedure is relatively simple: Doctor's apply a topical cream to numb the area and inject the testicle skin (no needles go into the actual sack). This is done multiple times in the selected area, with Botox from a fine needle, as it would be done to a creased forehead or a smattering of crows feet around the eye. The downtime is virtually non-existent. The end product, according to Dr. Rieder of NYU's Langhorne Medical Center, is "three to four months of bulging balls" and smoothness akin to a baby's bottom. As someone who tries to live a fairly active lifestyle, this would seem like an impediment to any sort of strenuous activity. It's already bad enough to inadvertently take damage to the family jewels, so having someone stick a needle in them only to make them bigger and more susceptible to incidental contact feels like a bad idea. Maybe you'd impress that special someone in your life, but the balls don't tend to be the feature presentation as it is. The procedure is not without risk, either. Another doctor interviewed claims it could affect the recipient's sperm count, and says he would avoid staying away if you're actively seeking to have children. Beyond the pain risk, that seems like a pretty good reason to stay away from the injection altogether. On the flip side, this rise in testicle injections once again shows how comedic legend Dave Chappelle is ahead of the game. You might remember this riff from his stand-up special in 2004: With all due respect to Chappelle and the pioneers who have undergone this treatment to date, if the best idea you have for $1,000 is to get Botox injected into your balls, please feel free to send the money my way instead.

Everyone falls victim to trends at some point. Whether you were one of the millions of people wearing Livestrong bracelets during Lance Armstrong's peak or you're a woman appreciating the choker revival of the last couple years, you've probably been involved with some sort of hard-to-explain craze. And if you're a man who likes to keep up with the times, boy do we have a new trend for you.

Plastic surgery has become increasingly common since the turn of the century, but a new procedure focuses on a body part most men hide on a daily basis: their balls. That's right, for the low price of around $1,000, apparently you can live out your dreams and be the man with the smoothest balls on the block.

Here's what the procedure is like, according to a doctor who spoke with GQ:

The procedure is relatively simple: Doctor's apply a topical cream to numb the area and inject the testicle skin (no needles go into the actual sack). This is done multiple times in the selected area, with Botox from a fine needle, as it would be done to a creased forehead or a smattering of crows feet around the eye. The downtime is virtually non-existent.

The end product, according to Dr. Rieder of NYU's Langhorne Medical Center, is "three to four months of bulging balls" and smoothness akin to a baby's bottom.

As someone who tries to live a fairly active lifestyle, this would seem like an impediment to any sort of strenuous activity. It's already bad enough to inadvertently take damage to the family jewels, so having someone stick a needle in them only to make them bigger and more susceptible to incidental contact feels like a bad idea. Maybe you'd impress that special someone in your life, but the balls don't tend to be the feature presentation as it is.

The procedure is not without risk, either. Another doctor interviewed claims it could affect the recipient's sperm count, and says he would avoid staying away if you're actively seeking to have children. Beyond the pain risk, that seems like a pretty good reason to stay away from the injection altogether.

On the flip side, this rise in testicle injections once again shows how comedic legend Dave Chappelle is ahead of the game. You might remember this riff from his For What It's Worth stand-up special in 2004:

With all due respect to Chappelle and the pioneers who have undergone this treatment to date, if the best idea you have for $1,000 is to get Botox injected into your balls, please feel free to send the money my way instead.