Tomi Lahren Asks Glenn Beck and The Blaze to 'Let Me Move On'
Tomi Lahren Asks Glenn Beck and The Blaze to 'Let Me Move On'
Amidst all the drama with her boss Glenn Beck and employer After revealing that she is pro-choice on in late March, Tomi was quickly suspended by the network. A one-week suspension turned into a permanent ban that Lahren refers to as a " public smear campaign " in the lawsuit she filed against Beck and last week. Related Tomi Lahren's Fall From Conservative Grace Has Been a Long Time Coming Twitter Laughed Mercilessly After Tomi Lahren Reportedly Lost Her Job With The Blaze Tomi Lahren's Lowkey Liberal Past Exposed in Old TV Footage Who knows how this story is going to end, but it would be in Tomi and 's to find a way to reach some sort of civilized split.

Amidst all the drama with her boss Glenn Beck and employer The Blaze, Tomi Lahren is still holding out hope that both sides can work out a clean break. “Let me go. Let me move on,” Lahren said, during her appearance on Nightline. “I’m deeply hurt by what has happened, I’m disappointed in what has happened. But if this is the way that it is, let’s just part ways, cleanly."

After revealing that she is pro-choice on The View in late March, Tomi was quickly suspended by the network. A one-week suspension turned into a permanent ban that Lahren refers to as a "public smear campaign" in the lawsuit she filed against Beck and The Blaze last week. Tomi is reportedly under contract with The Blaze until September.

"I just want to work and have the freedom to put my voice out there and I want to interact with my fans and my followers, that’s all I want out of this," an emotional Lahren said. “It’s my job, this is my life. Without that, I feel lost. When your outlet is taken away from you, when your catharsis is stripped from you and you don’t understand why and you’re so disappointed and you’re so blindsided by it—it hurts.”

Who knows how this story is going to end, but it would be in Tomi and The Blaze's best interest to find a way to reach some sort of civilized split. Lahren's entire interview on Nightline will air Thursday at 12:35 a.m. ET.