Is Govt's Plan To Ask Restaurants To Limit Food Portions A Step In The Right Direction?
Is Govt's Plan To Ask Restaurants To Limit Food Portions A Step In The Right Direction?
The central government has proposed a bill, proposing to limit the amount of food one can order at hotels and restaurants to stop large-scale food wastage in the country. The comes after PM Narendra Modi expressed concern about wastage of food in his radio programme. To begin with, this looks a  welcome move by the authorities, because there is a definite need to check the wastage and ensure proper distribution of the recourses, particularly food. However, a closer look at it raises several pertinent questions. This is a simple solution to a rather complex problem and presents many hiccups that we will address as simply here. A government exists to turn the wants and needs of its people into reality so that all can exist in harmony. They are the voice of the people, but needless to say, democracies have failed time and again in providing viable solutions to people’s problems. Is PM Modi going too far though by actually penetrating into people’s systems to determine how much they can eat? First, it was banning alcohol at restaurants within 500 meters of the highway, and now he wants to make restaurants and hotels his territory as well? Ridiculous!!! Are we heading towards a nanny state? Aren't there better ways to control food wastage?? https://t.co/XeM4UaZiD1 Other ideas - elasticity of roomali roti - inner & outer diameter of medu wada - radius of poori https://t.co/6r7qIbgpIl No, it certainly doesn’t! How can the government of the second most populous country in the world determine how much people of different shapes and sizes will eat? Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Ram Vilas Paswan, said, “If a person can eat only two prawns, why should he or she be served six? If a person eats two idlis, why serve four! It’s wastage of food and also money people pay for something that they don’t eat.” Person X might eat four, but Person Y might eat six, and Person Z might eat eight. In a country of 1.3 billion people, The government must really come up with a transparent plan, which will really satiate the desires of billions of people. Can I get extra if I show my Aadhar card? https://t.co/vYRoWmCldW

The central government has proposed a bill, proposing to limit the amount of food one can order at hotels and restaurants to stop large-scale food wastage in the country. The comes after PM Narendra Modi expressed concern about wastage of food in his Mann Ki Baat radio programme. To begin with, this looks a welcome move by the authorities, because there is a definite need to check the wastage and ensure proper distribution of the recourses, particularly food. However, a closer look at it raises several pertinent questions.

This is a simple solution to a rather complex problem and presents many hiccups that we will address as simply here.

Is the government going too far?

Unsplash

A government exists to turn the wants and needs of its people into reality so that all can exist in harmony. They are the voice of the people, but needless to say, democracies have failed time and again in providing viable solutions to people’s problems. Is PM Modi going too far though by actually penetrating into people’s systems to determine how much they can eat? First, it was banning alcohol at restaurants within 500 meters of the highway, and now he wants to make restaurants and hotels his territory as well?

Ridiculous!!! Are we heading towards a nanny state? Aren't there better ways to control food wastage?? https://t.co/XeM4UaZiD1 — Sumit S Suneja (@sumitssuneja) April 11, 2017

Other ideas

- elasticity of roomali roti

- inner & outer diameter of medu wada

- radius of poorihttps://t.co/6r7qIbgpIl — Ameya (@khabri_lal) April 11, 2017

One size fits all?

No, it certainly doesn’t! How can the government of the second most populous country in the world determine how much people of different shapes and sizes will eat?

Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Ram Vilas Paswan, said, “If a person can eat only two prawns, why should he or she be served six? If a person eats two idlis, why serve four! It’s wastage of food and also money people pay for something that they don’t eat.”

Season with spice

Person X might eat four, but Person Y might eat six, and Person Z might eat eight. In a country of 1.3 billion people, The government must really come up with a transparent plan, which will really satiate the desires of billions of people.

Can I get extra if I show my Aadhar card? https://t.co/vYRoWmCldW — Ivan Mehta (@IndianIdle) April 11, 2017

Don't Miss 331 SHARES 4.6 K SHARES 84.6 K SHARES 82.4 K SHARES 47.1 K SHARES

Also, who’s to say that people won’t waste the limited food set on their plate. And how will the government intervene when a customer sends a plate of food back, thereby wasting food.

Is BJP saying that only people of a certain economic class waste food?

Unsplash

By proposing to limit the amount of food served at restaurants, is the government insinuating that only those who can afford to eat at restaurants and hotels waste food? In fact, restaurants make up a very small portion of India’s food sector.

The reality of India’s food wastage is actually quite rotten. It wastes about 67 million tonnes of food every year, it was revealed in 2016 in a government study. The amount of food wasted is enough to feed one whole state for 365 days.

Also, the value of food loss is nearly two-thirds of what it costs the government to feed almost 600 million people under the National Food Security Programme. A Central Institute of Post-Harvesting Technology (Ciphet) study revealed that fruits, vegetables and pulses are among the most wasted items due to gluts, pests and lack of proper storage systems. Much of food in India is also wasted in transportation.

It was reported that in one transportation cycle, up to one million tonnes of onions and 2.2 million tonnes of tomatoes are lost. And a staggering five million eggs crack or rot because of poor storage systems.

Instead of enforcing a categorical limitation, an inconspicuous approach might help

Unsplash

The intentions behind this bill aren’t bad. The government wants to decrease the amount of food wasted, which is a prosperous goal to work towards. However, on the face of it, this bill certainly doesn’t seem to offer any viable and long-term solution. According to the Nudge Theory, which was first proposed in 2008 by Richard Thaler and Cass Sustein in their book, Nudge - Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth and Happiness, people can be “nudged” towards better decision making patterns by promoting preferred behavioural choices rather than obstructing them.

The authors claim that nudging is more beneficial than traditional regulation as a means to affect people’s everyday choices. A classic example is placing fruit at eye level in a cafeteria than banning junk food altogether.

Truth or legend, who knows?

It hasn’t yet been properly established whether this is a true story or an old legend, but one that carries a strong moral nonetheless.

A group of ravenous Indians walked into a restaurant in Germany’s Hamburg. Sat on the table next to them was a small group of elderly women. They were ordering small portions at a time, and would only order when they finished all that was on their plate. On another table, there was a couple of only two cans of beer and two dishes on their table.

Unsplash

The Indian group ordered a lot of food in the state of massive hunger and eventually ended up wasting almost two-thirds. As they were leaving, the old ladies called them back and told them they were unhappy about how much food had been wasted. One of the men retorted by saying they’ve paid for the food, so it’s no one’s business how much is consumed. The old ladies called an emergency number perhaps, and someone from the Social Security Agency arrived and issued a Euro 50 fine.

The moral of the story is quite loud and clear – wasting food is bad.

According to The State of Food Insecurity in the World report published in 2015, 194.6 million in India are undernourished. The intentions behind this bill are no doubt valid, but the means of reaching that end are scarred with imperfection.