Injured ants use chemicals to call colony for help
Ants have their own version of dialling 999


A secret weapon of a species of ants in its daily battles against termite prey has been revealed.

Researchers found that when African Matabele ants are injured in a fight, they will 'call' their nest mates for help by excreting special chemicals.

The recovery effort surprised scientists - as individual ants have been previously been viewed as expendable to the collective of the colony.

And the findings could aid our understanding of the evolution of 'selfless' behaviours in animals.

Researchers from the University of Wurzburg in Germany studying the rescue behaviour of the African Matabele ant have discovered chemical signals alert the rest of the colony to insects that are in danger (circled)

THE FINDINGS Researchers from the University of Wurzburg in Germany studied the rescue behaviour of the ants. And the findings - collected from some of the first experiments testing the value of this form of rescue - help to identify drivers of 'selfless' evolutionary behaviours in animals. Two compounds - dimethyl disulfide and dimethyl trisulfide - present in the mandibular gland reservoirs of the ants, trigger the rescue behaviour. Injured ants that were forced by the experimenters to return without help, die in 32 per cent of cases. Rescue behaviour reduced the number of ants who died as the result of combat to nearly 0. This was at no cost to the rescuer, which means the behaviour benefits not just the injured insect but the colony as whole. The researchers believe the behaviour helps to maintain a 28.7 per cent larger colony size.

The team - from the University of Wurzburg in Germany - studied the rescue behaviour of the ant species, which is widespread south of the Sahara.

They are a specialised termite hunter, setting out to hunt prey up to four times a day.

Proceeding in long files they raid termites at their foraging sites, killing workers and hauling the prey back to their nest.

But their attacks are met with resistance and the ants get involved in fights with termites of the soldier caste.

Ants often get injured as the soldier termites are 'very adept' at using their powerful jaws to fend off the attackers.

But the ingenious ants have developed a 'rescue behaviour' previously unknown in insects.

The ants emit two pheromones - dimethyl disulfide and dimethyl trisulfide - present in the mandibular gland reservoirs of the ants, trigger the rescue behaviour.

The injured insect is then carried back to the nest by its comrades, where it can recover and receive treatment.

This usually involves removing the termites that are still clinging to the ant, according to the researchers.

They found Injured ants that were forced to return without help, died in 32 per cent of cases.

Rescue behaviour reduced the number of ants who died as the result of combat to nearly zero.

The injured insect is then carried back to the nest by its comrades, where it can recover and receive treatment. Pictured - a handicapped minor ant (Megaponera analis), with two termites clinging to it, had to stop moving because of exhaustion during a return journey

This was at no cost to the rescuer, which means the behaviour benefits not just the injured insect but the colony as whole.

The researchers believe the behaviour helps to maintain a 28.7 per cent larger colony size.

Erik Frank, a PhD student at the university and author of the paper, said: 'We have observed helping behaviour vis-a-vis injured animals for the first time in invertebrates.

'This was an unexpected finding, especially for social insects, where individuals are usually of little value.'

The findings were published in the journal Science Advances.