Middle-aged people should take magnesium supplements
Middle-aged people should take magnesium supplements


Taking magnesium supplements in middle age could help protect bones, a study suggests.

The pills may hold the key to reducing rates of the most preventable cause of disability in middle-aged and elderly people, UK scientists said.

Researchers discovered middle-aged men who had high levels of magnesium in their blood nearly halved their chances of breaking a bone over the next 25 years.

They believe the same effect might apply to women - although the study only included men - as magnesium helps to strengthen bones in the same way in both sexes.

New research suggests that giving elderly people magnesium supplements may help keep their bones strong

Although magnesium is known to be important for bone health, it is thought this is the first study to show how it could prevent breaks.

Lead researcher Dr Setor Kunutsor, of Bristol University, said: ‘The findings are quite clear – there is quite a substantial reduction in risk of fractures.’

He recommended doctors consider screening older people to check their magnesium levels and treat problems before their bones weaken.

He added: ‘As people get older it becomes harder to absorb magnesium. But they don’t show any symptoms until they break a bone.

‘Screening for magnesium levels could be one way to go in the future. Then perhaps they could be prescribed magnesium pills to increase levels if they have gone too low.’

In the UK, around half of women and a fifth of men over 50 will break a bone at some point.

Around 3million Britons, the majority women, suffer from osteoporosis – a disease which weakens bones and can cause painful breaks from relatively minor falls.

Fractures can be debilitating and lead to other complications, which can ultimately be fatal for elderly people.

WHY MAGNESIUM IS IMPORTANT Magnesium is a mineral which is found in several foods, particularly green leafy vegetables like spinach and kale. It is also found in nuts, brown rice, wholegrain bread, fish, meat and dairy products. The mineral helps the body convert food into energy. It is also important for bone health as it ensures the parathyroid glands work normally. The glands control levels of calcium, which is essential for strong, healthy bones. Around 50 to 60 per cent of magnesium in the body is in the bones, with most of the rest in soft tissue. Less than 1 per cent is in the blood, which makes testing levels difficult. Men need to consume more magnesium than women. The recommended amount for adults under 65 years old is 300mg for men and 270mg for women. Older people may need more. Most people get all the magnesium they need from their diet but some people on poor or restricted diets may need to take a supplement. Taking too much magnesium can cause stomach problems and it may be dangerous in high doses.

Most people get the magnesium they need from their diet as it is found in many foods including green leafy vegetables, fish, meat, dairy, nuts, brown rice and wholegrain bread.

But supplements can help people with a poor or restricted diet.

For the study, researchers at Bristol University and Eastern Finland University followed 2,245 Finnish men aged between 42 and 61 from the mid-1980s.

The participants’ magnesium levels were measured when they signed up to the study. Around 25 years later, they were checked to see how many had broken bones in the intervening years. In total, the men suffered 123 fractures.

Men with lower blood levels of magnesium had an increased risk of fractures, particularly of the hip.

The risk of suffering a fracture was reduced by 44 per cent in men with higher blood levels and none of the 22 men who had very high magnesium levels had any fractures at all.

But the study found the reduction in risk was only caused by having higher levels of magnesium in the blood.

Taking more magnesium in the diet to boost levels appeared to have little or no effect, as the kidneys usually filter out any of the mineral the body thinks it does not need.

Dr Kunutsor said a supplement could help people reach the recommended daily allowance of magnesium – 300mg for men and 270mg for women – if they were not getting it from their diet.

He said people taking magnesium should also take calcium and vitamin D for maximum effect and it was unlikely a magnesium supplement would have any effect on its own.

In order to increase blood levels of magnesium, the researchers said it was important to treat any underlying problems which prevented it from being absorbed properly.

Bone fractures are one of the leading causes of disability and ill-health in the older population

Some people struggle to absorb the amount the body needs, especially if they are elderly, have bowel problems or are on certain medications.

Professor Jari Laukkanen, of the University of Eastern Finland, said: ‘The overall evidence suggests that increasing [blood] magnesium concentrations may protect against the future risk of fractures; however, well-designed magnesium supplementation trials are needed to investigate these potential therapeutic implications.’

Previous research has suggested hip fractures could be prevented by adding magnesium to tap water.

Norwegian scientists found that in areas where tap water contained magnesium both men and wom-en suffered fewer breaks.

Magnesium has also been linked to a reduction in the risk of heart disease, strokes and diabetes.

But taking too much magnesium – more than 400mg a day – can be harmful, especially in people with kidney problems.