Hungry boy, 8, steals car for McDonald’s after YouTube tutorials
Hungry boy, 8, steals car for McDonald’s after YouTube tutorials 
A young boy who stole his father’s car for a trip to McDonald’s learnt how to drive on YouTube, police say. The eight-year-old drove his four-year-old sister to his local McDonald’s drive-thru a mile and a half from his home in East Palestine, Ohio County, while his parents were sleeping. He observed the rules of the road and ordered a cheeseburger using money from his piggy bank, according to reports. The McDonald’s workers who took his order thought it was a prank. “This kid learned how to drive on YouTube,” patrolman Jacob Koehler told The Weirton Daily Times . “I think there is a good teaching point here. With the way technology is … kids will learn how to do anything and everything. “He probably looked it up for five minutes and then said it was time to go.” He added: “He didn’t hit a single thing on the way there. It was unreal. “A friend of the family saw what was going on and called the grandparents.” The police received several calls from concerned members of the public who witnessed the boy driving. No charges are being filed against the parents. Last year, a boy led police on a 'dangerous' car chase after a Grand Theft Auto session . Extraordinary McDonald's restaurants around the world Register Log in commenting policy

The boy really wanted some McDonald’s - AFP or licensors

A young boy who stole his father’s car for a trip to McDonald’s learnt how to drive on YouTube, police say.

The eight-year-old drove his four-year-old sister to his local McDonald’s drive-thru a mile and a half from his home in East Palestine, Ohio County, while his parents were sleeping.

He observed the rules of the road and ordered a cheeseburger using money from his piggy bank, according to reports. The McDonald’s workers who took his order thought it was a prank.

View photos The child headed to McDoanld'sCredit: Bloomberg More

“This kid learned how to drive on YouTube,” patrolman Jacob Koehler told The Weirton Daily Times.

“I think there is a good teaching point here. With the way technology is … kids will learn how to do anything and everything.

“He probably looked it up for five minutes and then said it was time to go.”

He added: “He didn’t hit a single thing on the way there. It was unreal.

“A friend of the family saw what was going on and called the grandparents.”

The police received several calls from concerned members of the public who witnessed the boy driving.

No charges are being filed against the parents.

Last year, a boy led police on a 'dangerous' car chase after a Grand Theft Auto session.

Related:

For more news videos visit Yahoo View, available now on iOS and Android.

Extraordinary McDonald's restaurants around the worldRegisterLog incommenting policy