8-year-old drives younger sister to McDonald's after craving a burger
8-year-old drives younger sister to McDonald's after craving a burger
Odd News 8-year-old drives younger sister to McDonald's after craving a burger An 8-year-old boy drove himself to McDonald's while his parents were sleeping, police said.
	                        
	                        	 (REUTERS/Rick Wilking, File) An 8-year-old Ohio boy wanted a cheeseburger so badly, he got behind the wheel of his dad’s van and took matters into his own hands, police said. The boy said it was simple: He just watched some YouTube videos on how to drive a car, according to investigators. Before long, they said he chauffeured his sister effortlessly to the McDonald’s half a mile from his East Palestine home while his parents were sleeping. Witnesses said the 8-year-old obeyed all traffic laws like making sure to stop properly at red lights, waiting for traffic to pass before taking a left turn, and staying within the speed limits, Fox 5 reported. When the two siblings pulled up to the drive-through window with piggy bank money in tow, the McDonald’s workers were convinced this was all a prank. “The workers thought that the parents were in the back, but obviously they weren’t,” responding patrolman Jacob Koehler told WFMJ . When confronted by the police, the boy realized he had done something wrong and told Koehler through tears that he just really wanted a cheeseburger, according to the Weirton Daily Times. The children did get to eat at McDonald’s while they waited for their grandparents to pick them up. No charges are being filed.

An 8-year-old Ohio boy wanted a cheeseburger so badly, he got behind the wheel of his dad’s van and took matters into his own hands, police said.

The boy said it was simple: He just watched some YouTube videos on how to drive a car, according to investigators. Before long, they said he chauffeured his sister effortlessly to the McDonald’s half a mile from his East Palestine home while his parents were sleeping.

3 CANADIANS DROVE 500 MILES TO TRY MCDONALD'S PIZZA

Witnesses said the 8-year-old obeyed all traffic laws like making sure to stop properly at red lights, waiting for traffic to pass before taking a left turn, and staying within the speed limits, Fox 5 reported.

When the two siblings pulled up to the drive-through window with piggy bank money in tow, the McDonald’s workers were convinced this was all a prank.

“The workers thought that the parents were in the back, but obviously they weren’t,” responding patrolman Jacob Koehler told WFMJ.

NORTH CAROLINA MCDONALD'S DRIVE-THRU ALLEGEDLY HACKED

When confronted by the police, the boy realized he had done something wrong and told Koehler through tears that he just really wanted a cheeseburger, according to the Weirton Daily Times.

The children did get to eat at McDonald’s while they waited for their grandparents to pick them up. No charges are being filed.