WINNER Hits New Peak on World Digital Song Sales Chart With Latest Comeback
WINNER Hits New Peak on World Digital Song Sales Chart With Latest Comeback
WINNER Hits New Peak on World Digital Song Sales Chart With Latest Comeback  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  It's a comeback that counts for WINNER as the band reaches a new peak on 's World Digital Song Sales chart . The K-pop outfit's new tropical house-inspiredÂ single "Really Really" debuts at No. 3 on World Digital Song Sales, marking the group's best position to date. The track is also the best-selling K-pop song in America this week. Just below is "Fool," which starts at No. 4. WINNER's new ballad ties the boy band's previous peaks on the ranking following their 2014 debut single "Empty" and 2016's "Pricked." The guys previously sent "Color Ring" to No. 24 in 2014.  The well-received return should be a sigh of relief for the outfit, which not only brings a new sound, but it's their first release since original member Taehyun departed in November 2016. While "Fool" plays off the tender balladry that made fans initially fall in love with WINNER -- and sentÂ their debut album Â to No. 1 on the World Albums chart -- "Really Really" is a refreshing, dance-inspired sound that is clearly being embraced by U.S. listeners. Like their past releases, the members were heavily involved in the music creationÂ with leader Kang SeungyoonÂ writing and co-producing "Fool," while Kang and his band mates Mino and Seunghoon wrote "Really Really."Â All inÂ all, the new chart highs indicate an excitingÂ chapter two for the group. Watch WINNER bring "Fool" to life below:  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

It's a comeback that counts for WINNER as the band reaches a new peak on Billboard's World Digital Song Sales chart.

The K-pop outfit's new tropical house-inspiredÂ single "Really Really" debuts at No. 3 on World Digital Song Sales, marking the group's best position to date. The track is also the best-selling K-pop song in America this week.

Just below is "Fool," which starts at No. 4. WINNER's new ballad ties the boy band's previous peaks on the ranking following their 2014 debut single "Empty" and 2016's "Pricked." The guys previously sent "Color Ring" to No. 24 in 2014.

The well-received return should be a sigh of relief for the outfit, which not only brings a new sound, but it's their first release since original member Taehyun departed in November 2016. While "Fool" plays off the tender balladry that made fans initially fall in love with WINNER -- and sentÂ their debut album 2014 S/SÂ to No. 1 on the World Albums chart -- "Really Really" is a refreshing, dance-inspired sound that is clearly being embraced by U.S. listeners.

Like their past releases, the members were heavily involved in the music creationÂ with leader Kang SeungyoonÂ writing and co-producing "Fool," while Kang and his band mates Mino and Seunghoon wrote "Really Really."Â All inÂ all, the new chart highs indicate an excitingÂ chapter two for the group.

Watch WINNER bring "Fool" to life below: