Someone Made Edible Water Bubbles To Replace Plastic Bottles And This Is How You'll Drink In Future
Edible Water Bubbles To Replace Plastic Bottles Are Here And This Is How You'll Drink In Future
Someone Made Edible Water Bubbles To Replace Plastic Bottles And This Is How You'll Drink In Future I believe we all agree that plastic is bad for us. It might have become a part of modern lifestyle, but the convenience of plastic shopping bags carries with it a very high cost to the environment and our health. Therefore, in order to build awareness about the ills of plastic and facilitate something that can be used as a replacement, these edible water bubbles, called the Ooho are here. Encasing a blob of drinking water within an edible layer made from natural seaweed extract ensures that nothing goes to waste. Furthermore, the blobs are fully biodegradable. There'll be nothing left if they're not used for more than 6 weeks. Skipping Rocks Lab , the brilliant team behind this idea is not a multinational organisation, but a bunch of smart kids from Imperial College in London. They first introduced this project back in 2013 and since then they have been relentlessly working to make their idea a success. The crowdfunding page that they recently set up received 750k USD ( 4 crore rupees). We are crowdfunding on #Crowdcube ! Help us make packaging disappear, buy shares today, and spread the word! https://t.co/oK56F5JHy8  #ooho  pic.twitter.com/ubvktBiRru Given that plastic bottles take hundreds of years to decompose, if this water bubble becomes commercially available, imagine how much plastic we will be eradicating from our lives! Menarik -> Ooho, The Edible Water Bottle pic.twitter.com/Pgw0Fs99Pb

I believe we all agree that plastic is bad for us. It might have become a part of modern lifestyle, but the convenience of plastic shopping bags carries with it a very high cost to the environment and our health.

Therefore, in order to build awareness about the ills of plastic and facilitate something that can be used as a replacement, these edible water bubbles, called the Ooho are here.

skippingrockslab

Encasing a blob of drinking water within an edible layer made from natural seaweed extract ensures that nothing goes to waste.

Furthermore, the blobs are fully biodegradable. There'll be nothing left if they're not used for more than 6 weeks.



Skipping Rocks Lab, the brilliant team behind this idea is not a multinational organisation, but a bunch of smart kids from Imperial College in London.

They first introduced this project back in 2013 and since then they have been relentlessly working to make their idea a success.

The crowdfunding page that they recently set up received 750k USD ( 4 crore rupees).

Given that plastic bottles take hundreds of years to decompose, if this water bubble becomes commercially available, imagine how much plastic we will be eradicating from our lives!

Menarik -> Ooho, The Edible Water Bottle pic.twitter.com/Pgw0Fs99Pb — @azisaz (@azisaz) April 11, 2017

Don't Miss 7.5 K SHARES 84.8 K SHARES 82.5 K SHARES 47.8 K SHARES

Huge!