Before, after photos show California landscapes making a comeback from drought
Before, after photos show California landscapes making a comeback from drought
Shares               Before-and-after photos of various landscapes in California show what a difference the deluge of winter rain has made after years of drought. Photos taken by Getty Images photographer Justin Sullivan in the summer of 2014 -- in the middle of the drought -- show brown fields and dried-up reservoirs. They differ starkly from the photos taken by Sullivan Tuesday. The summer of 2014 was the most "severe" period during California's four-year drought, said Amir AghaKouchak, associate professor, civil and environmental engineering, at the University of California, Irvine. While California's groundwater resources will still take a while to "recharge and recover," AghaKouchak added that "overall ... the drought is over." Gov. Jerry Brown ended the drought emergency for most of the state last week.   Sullivan, who is based in San Francisco, told ABC News that it was "kind of ironic" to see the vast difference from 2014 to now. "It was so brown everywhere," Sullivan said when describing what it was like to snap the photos in 2014. For years, it seemed like the landscape would "get green for a couple of months," but would then return to its brown state, he said.   AghaKouchak, who spends a lot of time outdoors, said this is "probably the greenest" that he has seen landscapes in Southern California in the past four or five years. There is even a field on the UC Irvine campus that is sprouting yellow flowers, he said.            It was "amazing" to see everything so green, Sullivan said.   AghaKouchak said the photos were "not surprising at all" considering the Golden State's recent weather. "It's because of all the rain," AghaKouchak said, adding that California sees most of its rain between December and March. Since November, when California's rainy season began, the landscape has "changed slowly over time."   Sullivan said that one of the biggest differences he saw was in Lake Oroville, which was "basically empty" when he first took the photos in 2014. AghaKouchak added California's reservoirs are now in "much better shape" after the rainy winter. In February, areas near the Oroville Dam were evacuated after the dam was damaged by excess water.    Shares                  Before, after photos show California landscapes making a comeback from drought   Ex-Trump aide: 'Something may have come up' with Russians about lifting US sanctions   Kremlin: No positive shift yet on Russia-US ties   Cosby loses bid to question accuser before trial   Pope off to maximum-security prison for foot washing ritual   FBI's Comey: People 'confused' by bureau's actions last year   Boy injured in school shooting 'recovering well'   Dortmund struggles to come to terms with bomb attack on bus   France: Gasoline bomb hits Le Pen's Paris campaign office   Japan PM: N. Korea may be capable of sarin-loaded missiles   Wrongfully convicted men go from serving time to serving others   Teens, retirees assemble Easter baskets for homeless children   Suspected robber drops wad of cash after heist, police say   Doctor delivers 'baseball team' with 3 sets of triplets in 6 weeks   Dad runs Boston Marathon to honor unborn daughter with Down syndrome   Quiet rooms for autistic children popping up at airports   Moms plan to 'egg' houses on Easter for special cause   Woman finds her cat on Facebook 2 years after he went missing   7th grader wins awards for 'remarkable' cancer research   Chris Pratt tells wife Anna Faris, 'I'm grateful to have you'   Instead of dyeing Easter eggs, try decoupage   Nigeria: Talks with Boko Haram continue over Chibok girls   Police: Remains found in Hawaii after man says he killed mom   Merkel seeks good ties with Trump, despite differences   Trump on NATO: 'It's no longer obsolete'   Syrian refugee who fled war feared drowned off San Diego   Manifesto suspect stole machine gun, drafted apology to gun store, prosecutors say   Wildlife conservationists sue over proposed border wall   Ex-teacher in student kidnapping case may need medication, left note for wife   Missing teen's father seeks to depose witnesses in hopes of finding daughter   Days after death of doctor who killed wife, daughter opens up about decadelong nightmare   Utah doctor convicted of killing wife in bathtub dies   Malala becomes honorary Canadian, notes Trudeau's tattoos   Sculptor of Wall Street's bull wants 'Fearless Girl' moved   Germany favors ban on boat exports to Libya to stop migrants   Charlie Murphy's final tweet is heartbreaking   'Scandal' cast reflect on reaching 100th episode and memorable fan moments   Everything you need to know about new 'Star Wars Forces of Destiny' series   Bill O'Reilly's show to be 'unchanged' until return from vacation

Before-and-after photos of various landscapes in California show what a difference the deluge of winter rain has made after years of drought.

Photos taken by Getty Images photographer Justin Sullivan in the summer of 2014 -- in the middle of the drought -- show brown fields and dried-up reservoirs. They differ starkly from the photos taken by Sullivan Tuesday.

The summer of 2014 was the most "severe" period during California's four-year drought, said Amir AghaKouchak, associate professor, civil and environmental engineering, at the University of California, Irvine.

While California's groundwater resources will still take a while to "recharge and recover," AghaKouchak added that "overall ... the drought is over."

Gov. Jerry Brown ended the drought emergency for most of the state last week.

Sullivan, who is based in San Francisco, told ABC News that it was "kind of ironic" to see the vast difference from 2014 to now.

"It was so brown everywhere," Sullivan said when describing what it was like to snap the photos in 2014. For years, it seemed like the landscape would "get green for a couple of months," but would then return to its brown state, he said.

AghaKouchak, who spends a lot of time outdoors, said this is "probably the greenest" that he has seen landscapes in Southern California in the past four or five years. There is even a field on the UC Irvine campus that is sprouting yellow flowers, he said.

It was "amazing" to see everything so green, Sullivan said.

AghaKouchak said the photos were "not surprising at all" considering the Golden State's recent weather.

"It's because of all the rain," AghaKouchak said, adding that California sees most of its rain between December and March. Since November, when California's rainy season began, the landscape has "changed slowly over time."

Sullivan said that one of the biggest differences he saw was in Lake Oroville, which was "basically empty" when he first took the photos in 2014. AghaKouchak added California's reservoirs are now in "much better shape" after the rainy winter.

In February, areas near the Oroville Dam were evacuated after the dam was damaged by excess water.

ABC News' Phaedra Singelis, Jeff Swartz and Liz Kreutz contributed to this report.