From The Fate Of The Furious To Bahubali 2, Seven Movies Worth Watching In Theatres This April
From The Fate Of The Furious To Bahubali 2, Seven Movies Worth Watching In Theatres This April
From The Fate Of The Furious To Bahubali 2, Seven Movies Worth Watching In Theatres This April With films such as and releasing in April, the month promises to stake a heavy claim to your salaries this month. Besides these films, there are several other interesting movies from different genres including historical, action and animated adventure lined up for release this month. If you are confused as to which movie to head out for, here is a list of movies releasing this April.

With films such as The Fate of The Furious and Bahubali 2 releasing in April, the month promises to stake a heavy claim to your salaries this month. Besides these films, there are several other interesting movies from different genres including historical, action and animated adventure lined up for release this month. If you are confused as to which movie to head out for, here is a list of movies releasing this April.

1. Begum Jaan – April 14





After Kahaani 2, Vidya Balan is back to the rock the silver screen with yet another enthralling story. Stepping into the shoes of Rituparna Sengupta, the madam of the brothel, Vidya is all set to captivate her fans with yet another powerhouse performance.

Apart from Vidya Balan, if there’s any other actor to look out for in the movie, it is Chunky Pandey, who looks unrecognisable with shaved head sporting a mean look in the trailer. The high-voltage dialogues from the film have already cast its spell on the audience. Furthermore, Amitabh Bachchan’s narration in his deep voice adds up to the mood of the period drama.

Helmed by National Film Award-winning director Srijit Mukherji, Begum Jaan is a remake of Hit Bengali movie Rajkahini (2015) and is hitting the screens on April 14.

2. The Fate of the Furious – April 14

The wait for the eighth installment of The Fate of the Furious has been longer than ever. The action film is a tribute to Paul Walker, who played the role Brian O'Conner in the franchise, before the world lost him in a car accident in 2013. Despite being an action film, there is an emotional depth associated with the movie as it is the first film without Paul Walker.

Furthermore, since when the trailer of the movie has been released, fans are confused to see Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) betraying his family of friends, after being seduced by Charlize Theron (Cipher). Also, adding to the excitement are Kurt Russell (Mr Nobody) and Helen Mirren (in an undisclosed role), who are debuting in the franchise with The Fate of The Furious, releasing on April 14.

3. Noor – April 21





Based on the hilarious novel by Pakistani writer Saba Imtiaz, You're Killing Me, Noor starring Sonakshi Sinha narrates the misadventures of a Pakistani journalist as she navigates her way through Mumbai. It’s a story about a real girl and her real life struggle.

Apart from Sonakshi, comedian Kanan Gill is making his acting debut in the film, and that’s exciting, isn’t it? What’s more, Sunny Leone will also be seen a cameo role.

Don't Miss 25.1 K SHARES 7 K SHARES 27.4 K SHARES 24.2 K SHARES 23.7 K SHARES

The makers have promised that the movie has “an immense sense of relatability”, and so we are looking forward to it. Directed by Sunhil Sippy, Noor is slated to release on April 21.

4. Maatr – April 21





The revenge thriller, which marks the comeback of Raveena Tandon after a hiatus of two years post-Bombay Velvet, looks hard-hitting than ever. The story Maatr, which once again highlights Delhi as the rape capital of the nation, revolves around a mother who fights against the broken judicial system after the death of her daughter who was raped.

The intense, as well as gripping story of the movie, narrates how she fights against judiciary as well as the criminal system when her own husband disses her and leaves her to fight the battle alone. TV’s acclaimed actor Rushad Rana will play the role of Raveena’s husband in Maatr, which is releasing on April 21.

5. Smurfs: The Lost Village – April 21

Sony Pictures’ CGI animated reboot of The Smurfs movie, titled Smurfs: The Lost Village showcases the colourful and flashy lives of Smurfs latest adventure. What happens when the Smurfs discover the village of other female Smurfs? And what happens when they come across a female Smurf that fights back with a bow and an arrow? Whoa! This is something that has never happened in the Smurf universe before, which is otherwise much tamed, isn’t it? In order to know what happens thereafter, head to the theatres on April 21 to watch Smurfs: The Lost Village.

The movie includes the voices of Demi Lovato as Smurfette, Mandy Patinkin as Papa Smurf, Joe Manganiello as Hefty, Rainn Wilson as Gargamel, Jack McBrayer as Clumsy and Danny Pudi as Brainy.

6. The Lost City of Z – April 21





Written and directed by James Gray, The Lost City of Z, is a biographical adventure film based on the real-life events from the life of British explorer Percy Fawcett, who made several efforts to find a lost city in Amazon before he disappeared with his son in 1925. It’s a story of the obsession of real life explorers. Want to get lost in a jungle for some adventure? Probably the movie will be a treat, complimenting with a strong story line.

The Lost City of Z stars Charlie Hunnam in the role of Fawcett along with Robert Pattinson as his fellow explorer Henry Costin, and Sienna Miller as his wife Nina Fawcett.

7. Baahubali 2: The Conclusion – April 28





And after years of wait, Bahubali 2 is finally releasing on April 28, making the year bigger and better. The movie is going to be bigger and grander than the first installment, for sure. But as known already, the makers of the movie haven’t revealed even asingle bit of the detail on the storyline of the movie, but still, the anticipation continues. Finally, the much-speculated question as to why Kattappa killed Bahubali will be answered. Are you all excited?

(Also Read: 9 Little Known Facts About Bahubali 2 That Will Make The Wait Even More Exciting)