Ben Carson gets stuck in elevator on Miami housing tour
Ben Carson gets stuck in elevator on Miami housing tour
Shares                The Miami leg of U.S. Housing and Development Secretary Ben Carson's national listening tour started with a glitch. Carson got briefly stuck in an elevator after a visit Wednesday to the rooftop of the Courtside Family Apartments, a complex co-developed by former Miami Heat star Alonzo Mourning and his non-profit AM Affordable Housing. The Miami Herald ( http://hrld.us/2p5Yilo ) reports that Mourning arrived a few minutes late, so Carson and Miami-Dade County Public Housing Director Michael Liu began the tour without him. They got stuck along with five other people on the way down. The elevator descended safely but the doors were jammed, so Miami-Dade Fire Rescue crews had to pry them open. Carson smiled as he emerged from the elevator, and Mourning apologized profusely. ——— Information from: The Miami Herald, http://www.herald.com  Shares                  Ben Carson gets stuck in elevator on Miami housing tour   Trump threatens to stop crucial Obamacare payments to insurers   GOP Rep. Mike Coffman says Sean Spicer 'needs to go'   President Trump on NATO: 'It's no longer obsolete'   1st black woman on state's highest court found dead by river   Manifesto suspect stole machine gun, drafted apology to gun store, prosecutors say   Melania Trump wins damages from Daily Mail publisher   Wildlife conservationists sue over proposed border wall   Clinton lauds free NY tuition plan as a progressive first   Swedish couple says 11-year-old daughter died in truck attack   Wrongfully convicted men go from serving time to serving others   Teens, retirees assemble Easter baskets for homeless children   Suspected robber drops wad of cash after heist, police say   Dad runs Boston Marathon to honor unborn daughter with Down syndrome   Quiet rooms for autistic children popping up at airports   Moms plan to 'egg' houses on Easter for special cause   Woman finds her cat on Facebook 2 years after he went missing   7th grader wins awards for 'remarkable' cancer research   Chris Pratt tells wife Anna Faris, 'I'm grateful to have you'   Instead of dyeing Easter eggs, try decoupage   Syrian refugee who fled war feared drowned off San Diego   Complaint: Manifesto suspect wrote apology before gun theft   Security reviewed at all Champions Leagues games   Hard-line ex-leader Ahmadinejad stuns Iran with election bid   Prosecutor: 'Manchester by the Sea' inspired duo to kill son   Trump won't say if he has confidence in Bannon: Report   A closer look at Carter Page, the Trump associate who was under FBI scrutiny   ANALYSIS: Spicer's Hitler gaffe complicates Trump push on Russia   Days after death of doctor who killed wife, daughter opens up about decadelong nightmare   Utah doctor convicted of killing wife in bathtub dies   Sculptor of Wall Street's bull wants 'Fearless Girl' moved   Jude Law to play Dumbledore in 'Fantastic Beasts' sequel   Police: Remains found in Hawaii after man says he killed mom   Boy killed in classroom was 'happy child' with rare disorder   Comedian Charlie Murphy, older brother of Eddie, dies at 57   New documentary offers intimate glimpse at late actor Heath Ledger   Bill O'Reilly's show to be 'unchanged' until return from vacation

The Miami leg of U.S. Housing and Development Secretary Ben Carson's national listening tour started with a glitch.

Carson got briefly stuck in an elevator after a visit Wednesday to the rooftop of the Courtside Family Apartments, a complex co-developed by former Miami Heat star Alonzo Mourning and his non-profit AM Affordable Housing.

The Miami Herald ( http://hrld.us/2p5Yilo ) reports that Mourning arrived a few minutes late, so Carson and Miami-Dade County Public Housing Director Michael Liu began the tour without him. They got stuck along with five other people on the way down.

The elevator descended safely but the doors were jammed, so Miami-Dade Fire Rescue crews had to pry them open. Carson smiled as he emerged from the elevator, and Mourning apologized profusely.

———

Information from: The Miami Herald, http://www.herald.com