Syria's Assad brands gas attack claims '100 fabrication'
Assad brands chemical weapon claims '100 fabrication'


Syrian president Bashar al-Assad has branded claims his regime launched a chemical attack on his own citizens '100 per cent fabrication'.

The dictator, who faces calls to be tried as a war criminal, suggested video footage of the alleged atrocity could be fake, and said: 'The story is not convincing by any means'.

He insisted it was 'not clear whether it happened or not, because how can you verify a video? You have a lot of fake videos now.'

And referring to footage which showed people foaming at the mouth, which sent shockwaves around the world, he said: 'We don't know whether those dead children were killed in Khan Sheikhun. Were they dead at all?'

Assad made the comment in an interview released today, less than 24 hours after world leaders clashed over a UN resolution condemning the attack, which human rights groups say killed 87 people.

Tests carried out on the site have established the presence of sarin gas, or a similar substance, the UN Security Council heard yesterday.

Speaking to AFP, Assad also said:

His army 'gave up' all chemical weapons in 2013

He will only allow an 'impartial' probe into the chemical attack by 'unbiased' nations

Syrian firepower is 'not affected' by a US strike last week

The US is 'not serious' about finding a political situation to end the country's civil war

He accused US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson of 'hallucinating' by saying the Assad family reign was coming to an end

British Prime Minister Theresa May today said it was 'highly likely' that Assad's regime carried out the attack, which was branded an 'affront to humanity' by US President Donald Trump.

Scroll down for video

Assad branded claims his regime carried out a sarin gas attack on his own population '100 per cent fabrication'

Syrian President Bashar al-Assad pictured during an interview with AFP's Beirut bureau chief Sammy Ketz in capital Damascus

In his first interview since 59 American cruise missiles hit a central Syrian air base three days after the chemical weapon attack, Assad said footage of the attack aftermath were not 'conclusive proof' it had happened.

He said evidence came only from 'a branch of Al-Qaeda', referring to a former jihadist affiliate which is among the groups that control the Idlib province, where the atrocity happened.

Images of the aftermath, showing victims convulsing and foaming at the mouth, sent shockwaves around the world.

He said Khan Sheikhun had no strategic value and was not currently a battle front.

He continued: 'Definitely, 100 per cent for us, it's fabrication... Our impression is that the West, mainly the United States, is hand-in-glove with the terrorists. They fabricated the whole story in order to have a pretext for the attack.'

The Syrian president has questioned whether children, such as the twin babies pictured being held by distraught father Abdel Hameed Alyousef, 29, were actually killed in the attack

Assad said images of children allegedly killed as a result of last week's attack could be fake

The Syrian regime has been blamed for a chemical weapon attack last Tuesday, which claimed an estimated 87 lives

The Syrian dictator said he would only allow an 'impartial' investigation into the incident, stating that he would only sanction a probe by 'unbiased' countries.

He told AFP bureau chief Sammy Ketz: 'We can only allow any investigation when it's impartial, when we make sure that unbiased countries will participate in this delegation in order to make sure that they won't use it for politicised purposes.'

The dictator hit out at the US, saying peace talks aimed at resolving his country's civil war were ineffective because Washington was 'not serious' about ending the conflict.

'The United States is not serious in achieving any political solution. They want to use it as an umbrella for the terrorists.'

He claimed his regime handed over all its chemical weapons stockpiles in 2013, and could not have carried out last week's attack.

He hit out at US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who earlier this week claimed the Assad family 'reign' was coming to an end

Assad claimed his regime handed over all its chemical weapons stockpiles in 2013, and could not have carried out last week's attack

'There was no order to make any attack... We gave up our arsenal a few years ago. Even if we have them, we wouldn't use them,' Assad stated.

And he claimed to be unfazed by international opposition, stating that the suffering of Syria's people 'is the only thing that could deprive me from sleep from time to time, but not the Western statements and not the threat of the support of the terrorists'.

He hit out at US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who earlier this week claimed the Assad family 'reign' was coming to an end.

The Syrian leader stated: 'There is no reign of Assad family anyway in Syria.

'He's dreaming, or let's say, he's hallucinating, so, we don't waste our time with his statement.'

Russia last night blocked a UN resolution which called for a speedy investigation into the use of sarin nerve gas last Tuesday.

President Vladimir Putin has angrily refuted claims that Assad ordered the attack, saying there was 'no evidence' to back this up.

Images of the aftermath, showing victims convulsing and foaming at the mouth, sent shockwaves around the world

US forces carried out an air strike on a base in central Syria, claiming Assad was behind last week's attack

US President Donald Trump said last week's strike from US warships in the Mediterranean was in the 'vital national security interest', and the US had to 'prevent and deter' the spread and use of chemical weapons

End of my reign? Rex Tillerson is hallucinating, says Assad The under-fire dictator has rubbished a statement by US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson claiming that the Assad family 'reign' is coming to an end. Assad became president following the death of his father, Hafez al-Assad, who ruled the country with an iron fist from 1971 until his death in 2000. He was tutored in politics by his father, who had initially planned to hand over power to oldest son Bassel until the latter was killed in a road accident in 1994. In the interview with AFP, Assad said: 'He's dreaming, or let's say, he's hallucinating, so, we don't waste our time with his statement.' After his brother's death the current president, a former ophthalmologist, was forced to leave London, where he had met his wife Asma, a British-Syrian and Sunni Muslim who worked for financial services firm JP Morgan. Assad, pictured at the age of 34 (left), was tutored by his father, Hafez al-Assad (right) The current Syrian president (second from left, back row) pictured with his family When Assad came to power, he relaxed some of the heavy restrictions on freedom that existed under his father. But as the Arab Spring reached Syria in March 2011, he responded with a brutal crackdown, labelling it a 'terrorist' conspiracy aimed at breaking the 'axis of resistance' against Israel. Since then, 320,000 people have been killed and more than half the population has been forced from their homes - but Assad has shown no inclination to step down. US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has stated that the Assad family 'reign' is coming to an end, a claim the current president refutes Assad (right) pictured alongside then Syrian army Chief of Staff General Ali Aslaan (left) shortly after coming to power in July 2000 Experts say his unwavering self belief has helped him to maintain a firm grip on power despite the raging conflict. 'He was from the same school as his father, and this school has always understood the importance of time, how to turn bad headwinds into good,' said Waddah Abed Rabbo, editor-in-chief of Syria's influential Al-Watan daily newspaper. Still, the key to his victory, Abed Rabbo and others said, was the steadfast support Assad was able to count on from his foreign allies. Assad (centre) pictured waving to crowds at his father's funeral on June 13, 2000, days before succeeding him as Syrian president Hafez al-Assad, pictured in 1998, died on June 10 2000 at the age of 69 'He never doubted his victory because he knew that his country had for decades nourished a solid strategic alliance with Russia, Iran and others,' he said. Assad has two sons and a daughter, and says he still lives in his Damascus home, drives the children to school and goes to work in his downtown office. Former Dutch ambassador Nikolaos van Dam said: 'It has always been a struggle for life and death. There was no question of stopping this war. It was either win or lose.' The Assad clan hails from the minority Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam, in a country with a large Sunni majority.

Assad, who has been in office since July 2000 when he succeeded his father Hafez al-Assad, is under increasing pressure amid calls for him to face trial for war crimes.

British Prime Minister Theresa May today said it is 'highly likely' that Assad was behind last week's attack.

After British scientists yesterday said sarin had been used, Mrs May said: 'They are very clear that sarin or a sarin-like substance was used and as our ambassador to the United Nations made clear yesterday, like the United States, we believe it is highly likely that attack was carried out by the Assad regime.

'Apart from anything else, we believe it is only the regime that has the capability to take such an attack and make such an attack.'

British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson branded his regime 'murderous' in a strongly-worded statement yesterday.

Mr Johnson said it was 'highly likely' the Syrian regime was responsible for the toxic gas attack and called on Russia to stop acting 'as a lifeline for Assad's murderous regime'.

British Prime Minister Theresa May, pictured today at the Royal Military Academy in Sandhurst, said it was 'highly likely' Assad's regime was responsible

US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, left, and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov shake hands prior to their talks in Moscow yesterday

The US President said today he is confident there will be 'lasting peace' between the USA and Russia

Yesterday US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson met Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Moscow to discuss the escalating tensions in Syria, and admitted there were 'low levels of trust' between the two nations.

But President Trump today attempted to de-escalate the crisis, writing on Twitter: 'Things will work out fine between the U.S.A. and Russia. At the right time everyone will come to their senses & there will be lasting peace!'

Assad's comments come a day after fraught discussions at the United Nations. In dramatic developments yesterday:

The UN Security Council was told British scientists had discovered evidence of nerve agent sarin, or a sarin-like substance, at the scene of the attack

US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said there were 'low levels of trust' between the United States and Russia after meeting Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov in Moscow

British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson called on Vladimir Putin to use his influence on Assad to end the war

Russia's ambassador to the UN, Vladimir Safronkov, accused Britain of 'arrogance' and defended its role Putin said there was 'no evidence' that Assad was behind the chemical attack

How did it get to this? Ten key developments in the Syria conflict REVOLT AND REPRESSION March 15, 2011: Unprecedented protests break out, demanding civil liberties and freedom for political prisoners after 40 years of repressive rule by the Assad family. Denouncing 'an armed rebellion by Salafist groups', the government crushes demonstrations in Damascus and the southern city of Daraa. The protests continue to spread and demonstrators call for President Bashar al-Assad to step down. In July, defected army colonel Riyadh al-Assad sets up the Turkey-based rebel Free Syrian Army (FSA). Islamist groups join the revolt. Anti-government activists gesture on the streets of Daraa, 100kms south of the capital Damascus on March 23, 2011 'BARREL BOMBS' USED March 1, 2012: Regime forces seize the rebel-held Baba Amr district of Syria's third city Homs after almost a month of heavy shelling. July 17, 2012: FSA fighters launch a battle for Damascus, but the government holds firm. From 2013, the regime pounds rebel strongholds across the country with improvised 'barrel bombs'. A defaced poster of Syria's President Bashar al-Assad is seen near garbage containers in Aleppo on July 24, 2012. The words on the poster read, 'We coming, duck ass' HEZBOLLAH AND IRAN April 2013: The Iran-backed Lebanese Shiite militant group Hezbollah says it is fighting alongside government forces. Iran boosts its military support for longtime ally Assad. CHEMICAL WEAPONS August 21, 2013: Rebel backer Washington accuses the regime of killing more than 1,400 people with chemical weapons in rebel-held districts near Damascus. In September, the United States and Assad ally Russia agree a plan to eliminate Syria's chemical weapons, averting punitive US strikes against the regime. RISE OF JIHADISTS From 2013, jihadists, including the Al-Qaeda-linked Al-Nusra Front, expand in the north at the expense of moderate rebels. In 2014, the Islamic State group (IS) seizes swathes of territory before proclaiming a self-styled 'caliphate' in areas it controls in both Syria and Iraq. ISIS fighters wave flags as they take part in a military parade along the streets of Syria's northern Raqqa province June 30, 2014 COALITION AIR STRIKES In September 2014, US president Barack Obama vows to build an international coalition to defeat IS. Later that month, the US and its allies launch air strikes against IS in Syria. The strikes benefit Kurdish groups, which in 2013 declared autonomous administrations in Kurdish-majority areas. In January 2015, coalition-backed Kurdish fighters oust IS from the flashpoint border town of Kobane. RUSSIA INTERVENES September 30, 2015: Russia launches air strikes in support of Assad. Moscow says it is targeting 'terrorist groups' including IS, but the opposition and the West accuse it of targeting non-jihadist rebels. Government forces, on the back foot since March 2015, begin to retake territory. Flames rise after the war crafts belonging to the Russian army carried out airstrikes on two hospital in the Azaz town of Aleppo, Syria on December 25, 2015 TURKEY INTERVENES August 24, 2016: Turkey launches cross-border 'Operation Euphrates Shield' to tackle both IS and Washington-backed Kurdish militia groups that Ankara considers 'terrorists'. REGIME RETAKES ALEPPO December 22, 2016: After a suffocating siege and a crushing offensive, the army declares it is in full control of second city Aleppo, which has been divided between rebels and government forces since 2012. Thousands of rebels and civilians are evacuated under a deal sponsored by Iran, Russia and Turkey. On December 30, a nationwide ceasefire comes into force under a Russia-Turkey accord which sidelines the US. A wounded Syrian child cries after the war-crafts belonging to the Russian army bombed the opposition controlled Firdevs neighborhood in Aleppo, Syria on October 11, 2016 Buses are seen during an evacuation operation of rebel fighters and their families from rebel-held neighbourhoods in the embattled city of Aleppo, Syria on December 15, 2016 CHEMICAL ATTACK, US MISSILES April 4, 2017: A suspected chemical attack kills 87 civilians, including 31 children, in rebel-held Idlib province. Western governments accuse Assad of using banned chemical weapons, which both Damascus and Moscow deny. Overnight April 6-7, a barrage of 59 US Tomahawk cruise missiles fired from warships in the eastern Mediterranean hits an airbase in central Syria, the first US military action against the regime.

There were furious exchanges at the UN Security council yesterday, where Britain's UN ambassador, Mark Rycroft lashed Russia's support for the 'murderous, barbaric criminal' Assad, and warned the Kremlin it was on the 'wrong side of history'.

Mr Rycroft said Russia had been 'humiliated' by its steadfast support of the Syrian dictator's regime during six years of hellish civil war and last week's chemical strike.

In a special session of the UN Security Council in New York, Russia's ambassador to the UN Vladimir Safronkov accused Britain of 'arrogance' and defended its role.

Mr Safronkov snapped at the British diplomat: 'Look at me while I'm talking to you'.

Jabbing his finger towards Mr Rycroft, he fumed: 'Look at me, when I’m speaking, don’t look away. Why are you looking away?'

And he told the British ambassador: ‘You’re losing sleep that we might be working together with the United States, co-operating with the United States – that is what you fear.

Investigators sent to Turkey to probe chemical attack Global chemical weapons investigators have been sent to Turkey to collect samples in an inquiry into an alleged chemical weapons attack in neighbouring Syria last week that killed 87 people. The fact-finding mission was sent by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) in The Hague to gather bio-metric samples and interview survivors, sources told Reuters on Thursday. The toxic gas attack on April 4, which killed scores of people including children, prompted a US cruise missile strike on a Syrian air base and widened a rift between the United States and Russia, a close ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in his conflict with rebels and militants fighting to oust him. Syrian authorities have repeatedly denied using any chemical weapons. Russian officials said the gas had been released by an air strike on a poison gas storage depot controlled by rebels. Washington said that account was not credible, and rebels have denied it. Turkish health minister Recep Akdag said tests had confirmed that sarin gas was used in last week's attack Samples taken from the poison gas site in Syria's Idlib governorate tested positive for the nerve agent sarin, the British delegation at the OPCW said on Thursday. 'UK scientists have analysed samples taken from Khan Sheikhoun. These have tested positive for the nerve agent sarin, or a sarin-like substance,' the delegation said during a special session on Syria at the OPCW in The Hague. The UK result confirmed earlier testing by Turkish authorities that concluded that sarin had been used for the first time on a large scale in Syria's civil war since 2013. The Syrian leader, pictured in February, faces increasing international pressure following a chemical weapon attack last week The OPCW mission will determine whether chemical weapons were used, but is not mandated to assign blame. Its findings, expected in three to four weeks, will be passed to a joint United Nations-OPCW investigation tasked with identifying individuals or institutions responsible for using chemical weapons. International investigators have concluded that sarin, chlorine and sulphur mustard gas have been used in Syria's six-year-old conflict, with government forces using chlorine and ISIS militants using sulphur mustard. Last week's poison gas attack in the town of Khan Sheikhoun in the rebel-held province of Idlib near the Turkish border was the most lethal since a sarin attack on Aug. 21, 2013 killed hundreds in a rebel-controlled suburb of the capital Damascus.

The attacks sparked international condemnation, and on Tuesday Turkey announced that blood and urine tests on victims had revealed the presence of the lethal gas.

Health minister Recep Akdag, in comments reported by the state-run Anadolu agency, said that international organizations and United Nations, 'should declare Assad as a war criminal and put him on trial'.

He said: 'It has been identified that sarin gas was used.'