GOP Lawmakers Ask AG Sessions for 'Fresh Look' at Lois Lerner Case

GOP Lawmakers Ask AG Sessions for 'Fresh Look' at Lois Lerner Case // // // // // Two top Republicans involved in crafting tax legislation asked the Department of Justice to take another look at embattled former IRS employee Lois Lerner. Lerner led the IRS department suspected of targeting conservative groups that were seeking nonprofit status. Peter Roskam (R-Ill.) and Kevin Brady (R-Texas) wrote a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions requesting a "fresh look" into evidence against Lerner, The Hill reported . The legislators, who sit on the tax policy-writing ways & means committee said a new probe of the IRS would help restore taxpayers trust in the institution. President Obama's justice department decided against filing charges against Lerner or anyone else involved in the alleged targeting. Roskam and Brady offered that the 2015 decision may have been more political than legal. Asked on "America's Newsroom" about the letter, Roskam emphasized there is "nothing new" that has emerged. He highlighted the fact that Congress made a referral stating the belief that Lerner committed crimes and that the Obama administration was "completely dismissive" of it. "The notion of weaponizing the IRS is so corrosive to our democracy, we ought not to let the statute of limitations lapse without taking another look at it," he said. Watch the clip above.

Two top Republicans involved in crafting tax legislation asked the Department of Justice to take another look at embattled former IRS employee Lois Lerner.

Lerner led the IRS department suspected of targeting conservative groups that were seeking nonprofit status.

Wallace: Russia's Lavrov 'Dominated' News Conference With Tillerson

Student Calls Out University Dorm's 'White Privilege Checklist' Board

McCain: 'Painfully Naive' to Trust Putin to Help US Against ISIS

Peter Roskam (R-Ill.) and Kevin Brady (R-Texas) wrote a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions requesting a "fresh look" into evidence against Lerner, The Hill reported.

The legislators, who sit on the tax policy-writing ways & means committee said a new probe of the IRS would help restore taxpayers trust in the institution.

President Obama's justice department decided against filing charges against Lerner or anyone else involved in the alleged targeting.

Roskam and Brady offered that the 2015 decision may have been more political than legal.

Asked on "America's Newsroom" about the letter, Roskam emphasized there is "nothing new" that has emerged.

He highlighted the fact that Congress made a referral stating the belief that Lerner committed crimes and that the Obama administration was "completely dismissive" of it.

"The notion of weaponizing the IRS is so corrosive to our democracy, we ought not to let the statute of limitations lapse without taking another look at it," he said.

Watch the clip above.

AZ Dem Blasts Sessions' 'Injustice Dept' for Illegal Immigration Crackdown

Author Calls for Women to Prioritize Mothering for 3 Years After Giving Birth

Mayor Kane? WWE Superstar Announces He's Running for Office in Tennessee