A woman went to a furry convention with her dog thinking it was for pets
A woman went to a furry convention with her dog thinking it was for pets
The convention’s charity of choice was Pets for Vets, a programme Wassus promotes. So she decided to set up tables to promote the charity and talk to attendees about its work. But the conference was actually a meet-up for furries – people who dress up in furry animal costumes. Her son tweeted some photos of the mix-up, and they’re absolutely amazing. my mom thought furrycon was a pet event and volunteered w our therapy dog 😆 pic.twitter.com/mizlydLxjl  Link is most certainly a good boy. Link being a good sport pic.twitter.com/wLSnGNi82Q  ok link is starting to panic now sos pic.twitter.com/VFFmYtFOfZ  If it's any consolation, it looks like the dog had a great time. Wassus told that she’d never heard of furries before, and had no idea she was walking into Furry Con. She said: It was a little embarrassing at first because Link was just a little curious why people were wearing tails, so he was doing some serious tail-sniffing and checking out people. They weren’t offended, though, they just embraced him. I learned so much about this whole new culture of people who get together and dress up in furry costumes.  But will Wassus be converting to a furry any time soon? No. You know, you get a little older, a little menopausal, and being in that many layers and layers of fur. No need to be overheating. I’m good.                    Keep scrolling for next article

Cheryl Wassus went to the Motor City Furry Convention with her therapy dog, Link, expecting to spend the day among like-minded animals and their owners. But she could have never imagined what she had signed herself up for.

The convention’s charity of choice was Pets for Vets, a programme Wassus promotes. So she decided to set up tables to promote the charity and talk to attendees about its work.

But the conference was actually a meet-up for furries – people who dress up in furry animal costumes.

Her son tweeted some photos of the mix-up, and they’re absolutely amazing.

my mom thought furrycon was a pet event and volunteered w our therapy dog 😆 pic.twitter.com/mizlydLxjl — kenny wassus (@kgw) April 8, 2017

Link is most certainly a good boy.

Link being a good sport pic.twitter.com/wLSnGNi82Q — kenny wassus (@kgw) April 8, 2017

ok link is starting to panic now sos pic.twitter.com/VFFmYtFOfZ — kenny wassus (@kgw) April 8, 2017

If it's any consolation, it looks like the dog had a great time.

Wassus told NY Magazine that she’d never heard of furries before, and had no idea she was walking into Furry Con.

She said:

It was a little embarrassing at first because Link was just a little curious why people were wearing tails, so he was doing some serious tail-sniffing and checking out people. They weren’t offended, though, they just embraced him. I learned so much about this whole new culture of people who get together and dress up in furry costumes.

But will Wassus be converting to a furry any time soon?

No. You know, you get a little older, a little menopausal, and being in that many layers and layers of fur. No need to be overheating. I’m good.

More: Remembering the time Nick Clegg accidentally went to a dogging hotspot