Tory Lanez Arrested for Possession of Handgun and Weed in Florida
Tory Lanez Arrested for Possession of Handgun and Weed in Florida
A routine traffic stop went south for Tory Lanez , who is in trouble with the law after being arrested on weapon and drug charges. Lanez was apprehended by Miramar police in Broward County, Florida after originally being pulled over for driving with expired registration tags. After Miramar PD pulled Lanez over for the violation, he failed to produce a valid driver's license or proof of insurance and was eventually arrested for holding a concealed firearm and possession of less than 20 grams of marijuana. Related Listen to Tory Lanez' "In For It" Did Drake Send Subliminal Shots at Tory Lanez on "Do Not Disturb?" Did Tory Lanez Incite a Riot at His Show in Texas? The possession of a firearm charge could present some issues for Lanez. Unlike the other charges—which all fall under the misdemeanor category—the weapons charge is a third-degree felony in the state of Florida. Third-degree felonies are punishable in the state with up to a $5,000 fine and five years of prison . The fine isn't likely to be a big issue for Lanez, who posted $1,000 bond to secure his release, but any extended time in prison would be a major setback. Lanez released a pair of mixtapes , and at the beginning of 2017, and he most recently appeared in the music video for Trina's "Damn". If Drake was indeed sending shots at Lanez on it looks like he has some extra ammunition, literally and figuratively.

A routine traffic stop went south for Tory Lanez, who is in trouble with the law after being arrested on weapon and drug charges.

Lanez was apprehended by Miramar police in Broward County, Florida after originally being pulled over for driving with expired registration tags. After Miramar PD pulled Lanez over for the violation, he failed to produce a valid driver's license or proof of insurance and was eventually arrested for holding a concealed firearm and possession of less than 20 grams of marijuana.

The possession of a firearm charge could present some issues for Lanez. Unlike the other charges—which all fall under the misdemeanor category—the weapons charge is a third-degree felony in the state of Florida. Third-degree felonies are punishable in the state with up to a $5,000 fine and five years of prison. The fine isn't likely to be a big issue for Lanez, who posted $1,000 bond to secure his release, but any extended time in prison would be a major setback.

Lanez released a pair of mixtapes, The New Toronto 2 and Chixtape 4, at the beginning of 2017, and he most recently appeared in the music video for Trina's "Damn". If Drake was indeed sending shots at Lanez on More Life, it looks like he has some extra ammunition, literally and figuratively.