9-year-old injured in San Bernardino school shooting 'recovering well'
Boy injured in school shooting 'recovering well'
Shares               A 9-year-old boy injured during a school shooting in San Bernardino, California, earlier this week is "recovering well," school officials said. The San Bernardino City Unified School District posted an update Wednesday on Facebook on behalf of student Nolan Brandy and his family, thanking "the community for the outpouring of prayers and support they have received." The school district also posted an image of a smiling Nolan in his hospital bed with a blue-and-white stuffed animal and his parents huddling close to him. "We are grateful," the family stated in the post. "Please continue to pray for him and also for Jonathan Martinez’s and Karen Smith's families,” the family said, referring to 8-year-old student Jonathan Martinez and teacher Karen Elaine Smith, who both died in the attack. The violence occurred Monday morning when Smith's estranged husband opened fire in her classroom at North Park Elementary School, according to the San Bernardino Police Department.       Authorities said the gunman, Cedric Anderson, of Riverside, California, entered the school on a visitor’s pass and opened fire on his 53-year-old wife, killing her, before turning the gun on himself. The students, who were reportedly standing behind Smith when she was shot, were not the intended targets, according to police. Shares                  Boy injured in school shooting 'recovering well'   Ex-Trump aide: 'Something may have come up' with Russians about lifting US sanctions   Coalition airstrike in Syria mistakenly kills 18 US-backed fighters   Kremlin: No positive shift yet on Russia-US ties   Indiana teens' mysterious murders still unsolved 2 months later   Cosby loses bid to question accuser before trial   Aide says San Bernardino shooter was 'out for blood'   Pope off to maximum-security prison for foot washing ritual   FBI's Comey: People 'confused' by bureau's actions last year   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   Wrongfully convicted men go from serving time to serving others   Teens, retirees assemble Easter baskets for homeless children   Suspected robber drops wad of cash after heist, police say   Doctor delivers 'baseball team' with 3 sets of triplets in 6 weeks   Dad runs Boston Marathon to honor unborn daughter with Down syndrome   Quiet rooms for autistic children popping up at airports   Moms plan to 'egg' houses on Easter for special cause   Woman finds her cat on Facebook 2 years after he went missing   7th grader wins awards for 'remarkable' cancer research   Japan PM: N. Korea may be capable of sarin-loaded missiles   Nigeria: Talks with Boko Haram continue over Chibok girls   France: Gasoline bomb hits Le Pen's Paris campaign office   Police: Remains found in Hawaii after man says he killed mom   Merkel seeks good ties with Trump, despite differences   Trump on NATO: 'It's no longer obsolete'   Manifesto suspect stole machine gun, drafted apology to gun store, prosecutors say   Inside Room 211: Virginia Tech massacre remembered 10 years later   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Malala becomes honorary Canadian, notes Trudeau's tattoos   Dortmund struggles to come to terms with bomb attack on bus   Charlie Murphy's final tweet is heartbreaking   'Scandal' cast reflect on reaching 100th episode and memorable fan moments   Olympian on topless photo shoot: 'Women do not have to be modest in order to be respected'

A 9-year-old boy injured during a school shooting in San Bernardino, California, earlier this week is "recovering well," school officials said.

The San Bernardino City Unified School District posted an update Wednesday on Facebook on behalf of student Nolan Brandy and his family, thanking "the community for the outpouring of prayers and support they have received."

The school district also posted an image of a smiling Nolan in his hospital bed with a blue-and-white stuffed animal and his parents huddling close to him.

"We are grateful," the family stated in the post. "Please continue to pray for him and also for Jonathan Martinez’s and Karen Smith's families,” the family said, referring to 8-year-old student Jonathan Martinez and teacher Karen Elaine Smith, who both died in the attack.

The violence occurred Monday morning when Smith's estranged husband opened fire in her classroom at North Park Elementary School, according to the San Bernardino Police Department.

Authorities said the gunman, Cedric Anderson, of Riverside, California, entered the school on a visitor’s pass and opened fire on his 53-year-old wife, killing her, before turning the gun on himself.

The students, who were reportedly standing behind Smith when she was shot, were not the intended targets, according to police.