Gutfeld: Massive Bomb Sent the 'Mother of All Messages' to North Korea

Gutfeld: Massive Bomb Sent the 'Mother of All Messages' to North Korea // // // // In his monologue on "The Five" today, Greg Gutfeld said the U.S. military sent "the mother of all messages" by dropping our largest non-nuclear bomb in Afghanistan on Thursday. The MOAB (Massive Ordnance Air Blast) - which is also known as "the mother of all bombs" - was deployed in Nangarhar Province, targeting an ISIS tunnel complex. Gutfeld said that the enormous bomb didn't just hit ISIS, it also sent a strong message to North Korea. He pointed out that North Korea usually carries out a missile test on the anniversary of the birthday of its founder, Kim Il Sung, which falls this Saturday. "And what did we do? We preempted it," Gutfeld said. "We out-North Korea'd North Korea." He likened North Korea to the "town drunk" and ISIS to the "village gang." "We just smacked that drunk upside the head, while beating the crap out of the village gang," Gutfeld said. He added that President Trump's meeting with China's President Xi Jinping could be a signal that even North Korea's allies are open to regime change in the hermit kingdom. "And the good news about North Korea? Unlike the Middle East hot spots, there's no Islamic death cult waiting in the wings to fill a toppled regime's void," Gutfeld said. "A change in North Korea could mean 25 million people who live like caged inmates may finally be free." "It's not just about ousting a nut, but liberating the world's largest prison camp. Maybe a big, fat, beautiful bomb is the laxative that'll move things along..." Watch Gutfeld's monologue above.

In his monologue on "The Five" today, Greg Gutfeld said the U.S. military sent "the mother of all messages" by dropping our largest non-nuclear bomb in Afghanistan on Thursday.

The MOAB (Massive Ordnance Air Blast) - which is also known as "the mother of all bombs" - was deployed in Nangarhar Province, targeting an ISIS tunnel complex.

Gutfeld said that the enormous bomb didn't just hit ISIS, it also sent a strong message to North Korea.

He pointed out that North Korea usually carries out a missile test on the anniversary of the birthday of its founder, Kim Il Sung, which falls this Saturday.

"And what did we do? We preempted it," Gutfeld said. "We out-North Korea'd North Korea."

He likened North Korea to the "town drunk" and ISIS to the "village gang."

"We just smacked that drunk upside the head, while beating the crap out of the village gang," Gutfeld said.

He added that President Trump's meeting with China's President Xi Jinping could be a signal that even North Korea's allies are open to regime change in the hermit kingdom.

"And the good news about North Korea? Unlike the Middle East hot spots, there's no Islamic death cult waiting in the wings to fill a toppled regime's void," Gutfeld said. "A change in North Korea could mean 25 million people who live like caged inmates may finally be free."

"It's not just about ousting a nut, but liberating the world's largest prison camp. Maybe a big, fat, beautiful bomb is the laxative that'll move things along..."

Watch Gutfeld's monologue above.

Trump on Dropping 'MOAB' in Afghanistan: 'Don't Know' If It Sends Message to N. Korea

'Like Chihuahuas': Huckabee Says Dems 'All Bark, No Bite' Toward Putin

GOP Lawmakers Ask AG Sessions for 'Fresh Look' at Lois Lerner Case

Hillary's Former Spox: Reporters Lean Left, But 'Come After Dems Harder'