Dave Chappelle and John Mayer Pay Tribute to Charlie Murphy
Dave Chappelle and John Mayer Pay Tribute to Charlie Murphy
Dave Chappelle hit the stage during John Mayer 's tour stop in Columbus, Ohio Wednesday night to pay tribute to the late Charlie Murphy, ABC News reported . The writer and star passed away earlier that morning after a battle with leukemia. At Mayer's show Wednesday night, Chappelle requested Mayer perform "You're Gonna Live Forever in Me" in Murphy's honor. "Today I got some terrible news," Chappelle told the audience. "My good friend Charlie Murphy passed away this morning, and everybody in comedy is heartbroken. So, John, you are a sight for sore eyes." After telling Mayer that "You're Gonna Live Forever in Me" reminded him of Murphy, Chappelle requested that audience members put their phones away and join them in tribute. "Let's make a memory that only we get to have," he said. The passing of Murphy, who was 57, has been mourned across the entertainment industry. In a statement to the , the Murphy family thanked fans and friends for their support. "Our hearts are heavy with the loss today of our son, brother, father, uncle and friend Charlie," the family said Wednesday. "Charlie filled our family with love and laughter and there won't be a day that goes by that his presence will not be missed. Thank you for the outpouring of condolences and prayers. We respectfully ask for privacy during this time of great loss for all of us." Columbus, OH - Jamming with Dave and remembering Charlie Murphy. 📸@daniel A post shared by johnmayer (@johnmayer) on Apr 12, 2017 at 10:05pm PDT In addition to his celebrated work as an actor and writer on the Comedy Central classic , Murphy also penned the story for his brother Eddie Murphy's Wes Craven collaboration and co-wrote the screenplay. Murphy also made a number of appearances in other films and TV shows dating back to 1988.

Dave Chappelle hit the stage during John Mayer's tour stop in Columbus, Ohio Wednesday night to pay tribute to the late Charlie Murphy, ABC News reported. The Chappelle's Show writer and star passed away earlier that morning after a battle with leukemia. At Mayer's show Wednesday night, Chappelle requested Mayer perform "You're Gonna Live Forever in Me" in Murphy's honor.

"Today I got some terrible news," Chappelle told the audience. "My good friend Charlie Murphy passed away this morning, and everybody in comedy is heartbroken. So, John, you are a sight for sore eyes." After telling Mayer that "You're Gonna Live Forever in Me" reminded him of Murphy, Chappelle requested that audience members put their phones away and join them in tribute. "Let's make a memory that only we get to have," he said.

The passing of Murphy, who was 57, has been mourned across the entertainment industry. In a statement to the Hollywood Reporter, the Murphy family thanked fans and friends for their support. "Our hearts are heavy with the loss today of our son, brother, father, uncle and friend Charlie," the family said Wednesday. "Charlie filled our family with love and laughter and there won't be a day that goes by that his presence will not be missed. Thank you for the outpouring of condolences and prayers. We respectfully ask for privacy during this time of great loss for all of us."

Columbus, OH - Jamming with Dave and remembering Charlie Murphy. 📸@daniel A post shared by johnmayer (@johnmayer) on Apr 12, 2017 at 10:05pm PDT

In addition to his celebrated work as an actor and writer on the Comedy Central classic Chappelle's Show, Murphy also penned the story for his brother Eddie Murphy's Wes Craven collaboration Vampire in Brooklyn and co-wrote the Norbit screenplay. Murphy also made a number of appearances in other films and TV shows dating back to 1988.