Sara Connor addresses letter to Bali High Court, pleads for sentence not to be increased on appeal



Sara Connor addresses letter to Bali High Court, pleads for sentence not to be increased on appeal

Posted

The Byron Bay woman convicted over the killing of a Bali police officer has said her four-year jail term is fair, and urged the High Court in Denpasar not to increase her sentence on appeal.

Prosecutors have lodged an appeal with the court against Connor's four-year jail term for her role in the death of policeman Wayan Sudarsa. Indonesian courts often increase penalties on appeal.

Connor has not appealed her sentence, but in a letter to Denpasar's High Court written in response to the prosecutor's appeal, Connor says the sentence was correct, even though the penalty is very difficult for her and her two children in Australia.

She says that an increase in the penalty would put her crime on the same level as her British boyfriend, David Taylor, who delivered the fatal blows and was jailed for six years.

"If the punishment is the same, it would not be fair for me, and it violates my rights as someone convicted of a crime that was done unintentionally," she said in the letter.

Taylor admitted killing Officer Sudarsa during a fight over a missing bag.

Connor claimed during her trial that she had no role in the killing of the policeman, but the court found that she was involved in the fight on Kuta Beach last August.

Prosecutors criticised her for not seeking help for the fatally injured policeman, who died on the sand about two hours after Connor and Taylor had left the beach.

She disputed an assertion by the prosecutor that the four-year penalty was not an adequate deterrent.

"I personally feel guilty and fail very deterred by the incident and my experiences in Bali … I would not repeat the stupid things that can cause harm to my life," she wrote.

She said her and Taylor's acts were very different, and her penalty should not be increased to be similar to Taylor's jail term.

"My punishment is not supposed to be compared to the punishment of David Taylor. The decision by the panel of judges in Denpasar District Court is not unfair, and is correct," Connor wrote.

"Let me learn from my mistake to be a better person.

"I realise my acts have caused harm to many people."

Topics: murder-and-manslaughter, crime, law-crime-and-justice, bali, indonesia, australia, byron-bay-2481, nsw