Trump Trade Agenda In Disarray Amid Signs Of Deal With China
Trump Trade Agenda In Disarray Amid Signs Of Deal With China
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Charles Wallace       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping walk together at Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in West Palm Beach, Florida, April 7. (JIM WATSON/AFP/Getty Images) President Trump has apparently jettisoned his campaign promises to be tough on China over trade in exchange for Beijing’s help in dealing with North Korea’s nuclear ambitions. While the strategy seems to be working, it won’t placate many voters in Rust Belt states who believed Trump would break with Republican tradition. “I explained to the President of China that a trade deal with the U.S. will be far better for them if they solve the North Korean problem,” Trump tweeted on Tuesday, four days after meeting President Xi Jinping at his resort in Florida. China seems to have taken the bait. On Tuesday, the Global Times, an English language Chinese-owned newspaper, warned that China might take punitive action if the North Korean government carried out further nuclear tests. “If the North makes another provocative move this month, the Chinese society will be willing to see the (U.N. Security Council) adopt severe restrictive measures that have never been seen before, such as restricting oil imports to the North,” the newspaper said. “Pyongyang hopes its gamble will work, but all signs point to the opposite direction.” While the Chinese have condemned the American missile attack against an airbase in Syria, the newspaper noted that it showed that Trump was not reluctant to use military force in the North Korean context, either. So what did Trump have to give up to China in order to win their help? “They're not currency manipulators," Trump told The Wall Street Journal in an interview Wednesday. He even noted that China had been trying to increase the value of its currency in recent months. This, of course, stands in direct contradiction to Trump’s campaign promises to label China a currency manipulator early in his administration. Trump also seems to have punted on other charges that China has taken unfair advantage in trade with the U.S., ratcheting up a $347 billion trade surplus with America. It was part of Trump’s successful strategy to win blue collar votes in tradition Democratic states like Michigan and Pennsylvania, which gave him the presidency. All the administration has done is passed the baton to a committee to look at the causes of the trade imbalance, as if no one knew already. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

President Trump has apparently jettisoned his campaign promises to be tough on China over trade in exchange for Beijing’s help in dealing with North Korea’s nuclear ambitions. While the strategy seems to be working, it won’t placate many voters in Rust Belt states who believed Trump would break with Republican tradition.

“I explained to the President of China that a trade deal with the U.S. will be far better for them if they solve the North Korean problem,” Trump tweeted on Tuesday, four days after meeting President Xi Jinping at his resort in Florida.

China seems to have taken the bait. On Tuesday, the Global Times, an English language Chinese-owned newspaper, warned that China might take punitive action if the North Korean government carried out further nuclear tests.

“If the North makes another provocative move this month, the Chinese society will be willing to see the (U.N. Security Council) adopt severe restrictive measures that have never been seen before, such as restricting oil imports to the North,” the newspaper said. “Pyongyang hopes its gamble will work, but all signs point to the opposite direction.”

While the Chinese have condemned the American missile attack against an airbase in Syria, the newspaper noted that it showed that Trump was not reluctant to use military force in the North Korean context, either.

So what did Trump have to give up to China in order to win their help? “They're not currency manipulators," Trump told The Wall Street Journal in an interview Wednesday. He even noted that China had been trying to increase the value of its currency in recent months.

This, of course, stands in direct contradiction to Trump’s campaign promises to label China a currency manipulator early in his administration.

Trump also seems to have punted on other charges that China has taken unfair advantage in trade with the U.S., ratcheting up a $347 billion trade surplus with America. It was part of Trump’s successful strategy to win blue collar votes in tradition Democratic states like Michigan and Pennsylvania, which gave him the presidency. All the administration has done is passed the baton to a committee to look at the causes of the trade imbalance, as if no one knew already.