Meet 30-Year-Old Nikki, The Solo Biker Riding Her Motorcycle Across The Globe
Meet 30-Year-Old Nikki, The Solo Biker Riding Her Motorcycle Across The Globe
Meet 30-Year-Old Nikki, The Solo Biker Riding Her Motorcycle Across The Globe We don't choose adventure, the adventure chooses us! There's hardly anything out there that a girl can't do and with 30-year-old Nikki Misurelli on a motorbiking tour across the world, the women fraternity has crossed another milestone. Nikki's dream of touring around the world on a bike took birth when her boyfriend wanted to motorcycle all the way from Alaska down to Argentina. When she asked to join him, he politely refused and said that it will be too hard for her. (Also read: This Solo Female Biker Travelled 32,000 Kms Across 16 States To Prove That India Is Safe For Women ) Slapping patriarchy in the face, Nikki broke up with him and began this solo voyage which has now become an inspiration for the world. Since then - when she covered 12,000 miles from Alaska to Panama - Misurelli has barely stopped. She even modified her bike to suit her needs. So far, she's covered Italy, Spain, France, Gibraltar, Portugal, Austria and Slovenia, and even nipped over to Morocco. “A lot of people just assume I’m rich,” she says. “But it’s not true. I have no house and barely any possessions. I pulled all my retirement money and sold almost all of my belongings. It’s amazing how little we actually need in life.” she said . After this, she's planning to go to either Australia or America.

We don't choose adventure, the adventure chooses us!

There's hardly anything out there that a girl can't do and with 30-year-old Nikki Misurelli on a motorbiking tour across the world, the women fraternity has crossed another milestone.

AlaskaMotoGirl

Nikki's dream of touring around the world on a bike took birth when her boyfriend wanted to motorcycle all the way from Alaska down to Argentina. When she asked to join him, he politely refused and said that it will be too hard for her.

(Also read: This Solo Female Biker Travelled 32,000 Kms Across 16 States To Prove That India Is Safe For Women)



Slapping patriarchy in the face, Nikki broke up with him and began this solo voyage which has now become an inspiration for the world.

Since then - when she covered 12,000 miles from Alaska to Panama - Misurelli has barely stopped.



She even modified her bike to suit her needs.

So far, she's covered Italy, Spain, France, Gibraltar, Portugal, Austria and Slovenia, and even nipped over to Morocco.

“A lot of people just assume I’m rich,” she says. “But it’s not true. I have no house and barely any possessions. I pulled all my retirement money and sold almost all of my belongings. It’s amazing how little we actually need in life.” she said.



After this, she's planning to go to either Australia or America.

Don't Miss 8.6 K SHARES 38.5 K SHARES 85.5 K SHARES 32.2 K SHARES

“I want women around the world to get out there and get travelling,” she said.

Women like Niki are an inspiration and people across the world do follow their footsteps. Last month, 3 grandmothers from Delhi - Neeru Gandhi, Monica Chanana and Pratibha Sabharwal decided to go on a road trip and the internet couldn't thank them enough for doing it.