Here's Kendrick Lamar's Lost Verse From "Pride"
Here's Kendrick Lamar's Lost Verse From "Pride"
We're only a few hours into the release of Kendrick Lamar 's fourth studio album and the TDE crew is already sharing some awesome behind-the-scenes material. Punch, co-president of TDE, took to Instagram to share a lost verse from "Pride" written down on a pad of paper in red ink, which also happens to be the font color of the album title on the cover. "Niggas wanna post they best Kdot pics cause the album out," he wrote in the caption. "How about this pic I got from Dot of a lost verse for the song PRIDE. Haaaaa. Yea. #stunt" Ok. Niggas wanna post they best Kdot pics cause the album out. How about this pic I got from Dot of a lost verse for the song PRIDE. Haaaaa. Yea. #stunt #idontdoitforthegramidoitforwellidodoitforthegram #lol #youfeelsometypeofwaythenaaaaahhhhhhaaaaa #yea A post shared by Punch (@iamstillpunch) on Apr 13, 2017 at 9:41pm PDT Stunt indeed. The lyrics are pretty legible to the naked eye. Here's what to be written down: Pride is my biggest sin I tride to fight it but I never win Layin' myself down in the beds I made Karma is always knockin' with capital K's It started when I was tossin' my life in the sand (?) Crossin' the street, momma don't you hold my hand Time revealing itself my ways are magnified Same patterns requiring that I never camouflage​ Looking at me in shock you found my identity Asking yourself do I have room 4 empathy The note ends: "Subject 2 change. But not me." Fingers crossed Punch and TDE share more as we digest this latest project from K-Dot. You can stream it here and purchase it on iTunes .

We're only a few hours into the release of Kendrick Lamar's fourth studio album Damn and the TDE crew is already sharing some awesome behind-the-scenes material.

Punch, co-president of TDE, took to Instagram to share a lost verse from "Pride" written down on a pad of paper in red ink, which also happens to be the font color of the album title on the cover.

"Niggas wanna post they best Kdot pics cause the album out," he wrote in the caption. "How about this pic I got from Dot of a lost verse for the song PRIDE. Haaaaa. Yea. #stunt"

Stunt indeed.

The lyrics are pretty legible to the naked eye. Here's what appears to be written down:

Pride is my biggest sin

I tride to fight it but I never win

Layin' myself down in the beds I made

Karma is always knockin' with capital K's

It started when I was tossin' my life in the sand (?)

Crossin' the street, momma don't you hold my hand

Time revealing itself my ways are magnified

Same patterns requiring that I never camouflage​

Looking at me in shock you found my identity

Asking yourself do I have room 4 empathy

The note ends: "Subject 2 change. But not me."

Fingers crossed Punch and TDE share more as we digest this latest project from K-Dot. You can stream it here and purchase it on iTunes.