Will London Fall? How Dare You!
Will London Fall? How Dare You!
Will London fall? It is a question as evocative as it is provocative. It was also the headline in The New York Times at the top of Tuesday’s front page essay about London that generated a spirited trans-Atlantic discussion. The essay by Sarah Lyall , with striking visuals by Sergey Ponomarev, is the first in a series of articles examining how Britain’s vote to leave the European Union , known as Brexit, could affect London. Ms. Lyall looked closely at the British capital: a teeming multicultural metropolis of 8.7 million people, with a Muslim mayor, where some native Britons no longer feel at home. London is a center of international culture and commerce whose resilience and openness became a symbol of postwar European unity. It’s expected that in two years it will no longer be a part of that European experiment. In Britain, and around the world, the response to the article was swift, if hardly unanimous. Readers, commentators in the British news media, members of Parliament and people across social media weighed in and continued to do so on Thursday. London will not fall. No matter how rapidly the media landscape is changing, headlines still matter. ‘Will London Fall?’ clearly struck a nerve; some people reacted to the headline more than the article. Some viewed it as unduly inflammatory or sensationalistic. # WillLondonFall became a trending topic on British Twitter. Some thought it provoked unwanted memories of the much-maligned disaster movie, “London Has Fallen.” Others thought it was fine. Passionate responses poured in from a city that has survived fire, plague and the Blitz, among them: Over the centuries, London has proved itself time and again adaptable to whatever fate has thrown at it. Brexit is just the latest challenge that this great global city faces. Now is the time for all Londoners to stand together rather than talking down our prospects. — Mark Field, member of Parliament for the cities of London and Westminster Will London Fall? flattens the EU referendum decision into diversity v. isolationism, a contrast which is partly true, but also in many ways fails to understand the striking changes in national identity which are happening under the surface of the UK. — Mike Harris, writing on the website Little Atoms Not everyone was so high-minded. To some people on Twitter, London had already succumbed to immigration, globalization and more. Venom seeped through some Twitter feeds, reminiscent of the anger that surfaced during the vote, to the annoyance of some others. Will London fall London is over run by Arabs, Russians, petro dollars, housing no longer viable. Housing impossible, prices out of control "Will London Fall" Yup. The leftists will make sure of that by enabling radical Islam. #TuesdayMotivation  #TuesdayMorning  Some readers complained that an American newspaper (if one with a sizable newsroom in London and bureaus around the globe) should not turn its eyes to London and Britain’s planned exit from the union when foreigners could make similar prognostications about the fate of the United States in the wake of a similarly surprising voting result: the election of Donald J. Trump. The gall of NYT asking 'Will London Fall?' after the US elected Trump for President. The British news media takes note. Some British conservatives and segments of the British news media interpreted the article as a frontal assault by New York itself on the British capital, which might be a surprise to the City of New York. Will London Fall? The metropolis that globalization created may well be the capital of the world. But after the “Brexit” referendum, its future as an international crossroads is far from certain. From The Sun on Thursday: ” So went the headline to an Op-Ed by Gerard Lyons, a British economist and writer, in which he defended Brexit as good for London and for Britain. To help illustrate the piece, The Sun embedded a small photo of Queen Elizabeth II with the following: Ouch, zinger. Jackson Heights and Flushing, rise up. From The Evening Standard on Wednesday: “Viral hashtags are a bellwether for the spirit of a city: in the hours after last month’s terrorist attack in Westminster, #WeAreNotAfraid trended on Twitter. It’s characteristic of a city that gets annoyed by attacks on its freedoms.” From The Sun on Tuesday: The article also stirred a discussion on social media about British humor, whether the article had misread a sketch written by the British satirist Patrick Kidd and whether Americans were humor-challenged, anyway. Ms. Lyall, who lived in London for 15 years, used a Facebook chat about the story to explain why she wrote what she did . In the spirit of zingers, though, here was one from Mr. Kidd, who later exchanged friendly notes with Ms. Lyall on Twitter. “Someone once wrote that papers should use a type called ‘ironic’ like italic but slanting backwards to help Americans.” — Mr. Kidd, a columnist for The Times of London , whose piece about a French political rally was cited by Ms. Lyall. Homesick for London. Beneath all the noise, many readers saw the article as a powerful and melancholy essay for a London that for decades has been a place of opportunity for all Europeans. “London is or was sort of the capital of Europe (and by extension the EU) — at least culturally and economically. I studied in Cambridge in the mid-to-late 90s and my brother and sister studied at the London School of Economics (LSE). They did (or are doing) their Ph.D.s still there. My brother lives in London now with his wife. None of that would have or will now happen. It is an end of an era and a period in time. London will become now again more English and maybe more Asian (or American). EU cosmopolites will be searching for a new place to call their own. Britain will lose massive amounts of money and talent.” — Pekka Kohonen of Stockholm, commenting via The New York Times "How do you define London? You don’t, really." @sarahlyall and @sergeyponomarev really capture London's mood here: https://t.co/JdgH8opA5n  Will London Fall? https://t.co/caNa55vhfP  How confused we must look to rest of world - Agree/disagree, the debate is certainly pertinent Brilliant piece by Sarah Lyall it made me homesick for London and slightly, I hope wrongly, worried for it x https://t.co/v38tQeOITr  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

Will London fall?

It is a question as evocative as it is provocative.

It was also the headline in The New York Times at the top of Tuesday’s front page essay about London that generated a spirited trans-Atlantic discussion. The essay by Sarah Lyall, with striking visuals by Sergey Ponomarev, is the first in a series of articles examining how Britain’s vote to leave the European Union, known as Brexit, could affect London.

Ms. Lyall looked closely at the British capital: a teeming multicultural metropolis of 8.7 million people, with a Muslim mayor, where some native Britons no longer feel at home. London is a center of international culture and commerce whose resilience and openness became a symbol of postwar European unity. It’s expected that in two years it will no longer be a part of that European experiment.

In Britain, and around the world, the response to the article was swift, if hardly unanimous. Readers, commentators in the British news media, members of Parliament and people across social media weighed in and continued to do so on Thursday.

London will not fall.

No matter how rapidly the media landscape is changing, headlines still matter. ‘Will London Fall?’ clearly struck a nerve; some people reacted to the headline more than the article. Some viewed it as unduly inflammatory or sensationalistic. #WillLondonFall became a trending topic on British Twitter. Some thought it provoked unwanted memories of the much-maligned disaster movie, “London Has Fallen.” Others thought it was fine. Passionate responses poured in from a city that has survived fire, plague and the Blitz, among them:

Over the centuries, London has proved itself time and again adaptable to whatever fate has thrown at it. Brexit is just the latest challenge that this great global city faces. Now is the time for all Londoners to stand together rather than talking down our prospects. — Mark Field, member of Parliament for the cities of London and Westminster Will London Fall? flattens the EU referendum decision into diversity v. isolationism, a contrast which is partly true, but also in many ways fails to understand the striking changes in national identity which are happening under the surface of the UK. — Mike Harris, writing on the website Little Atoms

Not everyone was so high-minded. To some people on Twitter, London had already succumbed to immigration, globalization and more. Venom seeped through some Twitter feeds, reminiscent of the anger that surfaced during the vote, to the annoyance of some others.

Some readers complained that an American newspaper (if one with a sizable newsroom in London and bureaus around the globe) should not turn its eyes to London and Britain’s planned exit from the union when foreigners could make similar prognostications about the fate of the United States in the wake of a similarly surprising voting result: the election of Donald J. Trump.

The British news media takes note.

Some British conservatives and segments of the British news media interpreted the article as a frontal assault by New York itself on the British capital, which might be a surprise to the City of New York.

From The Sun on Thursday:

“As NYC Slams Our Capital...Start Spreading the news: London is top of the heap” So went the headline to an Op-Ed by Gerard Lyons, a British economist and writer, in which he defended Brexit as good for London and for Britain. To help illustrate the piece, The Sun embedded a small photo of Queen Elizabeth II with the following: We have the Queen. They just have Queens, a grim borough. Ouch, zinger. Jackson Heights and Flushing, rise up.

From The Evening Standard on Wednesday:

“Viral hashtags are a bellwether for the spirit of a city: in the hours after last month’s terrorist attack in Westminster, #WeAreNotAfraid trended on Twitter. It’s characteristic of a city that gets annoyed by attacks on its freedoms.”

From The Sun on Tuesday:

“HOW DARE THEY! Tory MP Kwasi Kwarteng blasts The New York Times over an article questioning whether London would SURVIVE Brexit.”

The article also stirred a discussion on social media about British humor, whether the article had misread a sketch written by the British satirist Patrick Kidd and whether Americans were humor-challenged, anyway. Ms. Lyall, who lived in London for 15 years, used a Facebook chat about the story to explain why she wrote what she did.

In the spirit of good zingers, though, here was one from Mr. Kidd, who later exchanged friendly notes with Ms. Lyall on Twitter.

“Someone once wrote that papers should use a type called ‘ironic’ like italic but slanting backwards to help Americans.” — Mr. Kidd, a columnist for The Times of London, whose piece about a French political rally was cited by Ms. Lyall.

Homesick for London.

Beneath all the noise, many readers saw the article as a powerful and melancholy essay for a London that for decades has been a place of opportunity for all Europeans.