West Virginia Governor Brings Out Actual Bulls**t To Show What He Thinks Of Budget Bill
West Virginia Governor Brings Out Actual Bulls**t To Show What He Thinks Of Budget Bill
West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice (D) made it clear he thinks a budget bill state lawmakers sent to his desk is a load of bull crap. Justice rolled out a copy of the bill with poop on top during a Thursday announcement saying he’d veto the legislation. The governor, who frequently uses props during announcements, brought out three covered trays during a speech criticizing the $4.1 billion budget bill . He uncovered the first two trays to reveal a “nothing burger” and a “mayonnaise sandwich,” references to colorful ways he criticized budget plans earlier this month. He uncovered the third tray to reveal a stack of papers ― presumably the budget bill, which lawmakers passed on Sunday ― with what Justice called “bull-you-know-what” on top. ”We don’t have a nothing burger today, and we don’t have a mayonnaise sandwich today,” Justice said. “We all should take ownership for this, but what we have is nothing more than a bunch of political bull-you-know-what.” Here’s a closer look at the you-know-what. CONFIRMED @WVGovernor uses real cow dung as a prop to show how he feels about Capitol politics. pic.twitter.com/6AFCRHj6yI After vetoing the bill, Justice said he hopes lawmakers will “stop the bull crap.” “I hope and pray that the silliness will stop,” he said. ALSO ON HUFFPOST 2017 Scenes From Congress & Capitol Hill       Share this slide:       MORE:

West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice (D) made it clear he thinks a budget bill state lawmakers sent to his desk is a load of bull crap.

Justice rolled out a copy of the bill with poop on top during a Thursday announcement saying he’d veto the legislation.

The governor, who frequently uses props during announcements, brought out three covered trays during a speech criticizing the $4.1 billion budget bill. He uncovered the first two trays to reveal a “nothing burger” and a “mayonnaise sandwich,” references to colorful ways he criticized budget plans earlier this month.

He uncovered the third tray to reveal a stack of papers ― presumably the budget bill, which lawmakers passed on Sunday ― with what Justice called “bull-you-know-what” on top.

West Virginia Public Broadcasting That's poop.

”We don’t have a nothing burger today, and we don’t have a mayonnaise sandwich today,” Justice said. “We all should take ownership for this, but what we have is nothing more than a bunch of political bull-you-know-what.”

Here’s a closer look at the you-know-what.

CONFIRMED @WVGovernor uses real cow dung as a prop to show how he feels about Capitol politics. pic.twitter.com/6AFCRHj6yI — Blaine Carragher (@WSAZBlaine) April 13, 2017

After vetoing the bill, Justice said he hopes lawmakers will “stop the bull crap.”