The Trailer Of Sachin: A Billion Dreams Is Out And We Just Can't Wait For The Biopic To Release
The Trailer Of Sachin: A Billion Dreams Is Out And We Just Can't Wait For The Biopic To Release
The Trailer Of Sachin: A Billion Dreams Is Out And We Just Can't Wait For The Biopic To Release So the wait is over! The trailer of Sachin Tendulkar's biopic Sachin: A Billion Dreams has finally come out! The movie will hit the screens on May 26. The teaser of the film has already been put out that has Sachin himself narrating the story, which surely leaves one with much urge to experience the entire film. The film appears to be a sheer treat for all the Sachin Tendulkar fans, who can't wait to watch the film. The music of the film is being given by none other than the maestro himself, A.R Rahman. The screenplay is written by James Erskine and Sivakumar Ananth. Erskine is also the director. The movie showcases the rise of a boy who became a child prodigy and then turned into the best batsman the world has ever seen. Sachin's career spanned 24 years during which he hit 100 international hundreds. He represented India in 200 Tests and 463 ODIs. He was part of the team which won the 2011 World Cup. Well the countdown begins folks! May 26 beckons. Save the date.

So the wait is over! The trailer of Sachin Tendulkar's biopic Sachin: A Billion Dreams has finally come out!

The movie will hit the screens on May 26.

AFP/Twitter

The teaser of the film has already been put out that has Sachin himself narrating the story, which surely leaves one with much urge to experience the entire film. The film appears to be a sheer treat for all the Sachin Tendulkar fans, who can't wait to watch the film.

The music of the film is being given by none other than the maestro himself, A.R Rahman. The screenplay is written by James Erskine and Sivakumar Ananth. Erskine is also the director.

AFP

The movie showcases the rise of a boy who became a child prodigy and then turned into the best batsman the world has ever seen.

Sachin's career spanned 24 years during which he hit 100 international hundreds. He represented India in 200 Tests and 463 ODIs. He was part of the team which won the 2011 World Cup.

Well the countdown begins folks! May 26 beckons. Save the date.

Don't Miss 33.9 K SHARES 26.6 K SHARES 13.7 K SHARES