Kansas commitment K.J. Lawson apologizes for profane comment against Memphis coach Tubby Smith
K.J. Lawson sorry for profane Tubby comment
K.J. Lawson sorry for profane Tubby comment Colton's return means Notre Dame will contend -- again Jaren Jackson has all the tools of a modern big, for MSU and beyond Louisville built for Final Four run next season How did ESPN's upgraded BPI perform this college basketball season? For Florida State, the answer is simple: patience North Carolina set to be a force again in 2017-18 Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covers college basketball Joined ESPN.com in 2011 Graduate of Minnesota State University, Mankato Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment K.J. Lawson , who announced his transfer from Memphis to Kansas this week, has apologized for explicit remarks he made against Tigers coach Tubby Smith. In a Snapchat video that circulated on social media Thursday, Lawson looked into a camera and said, "F--- Tubby." Lawson, who transferred to Kansas with brother and Memphis star Dedric Lawson , apologized for his "inexcusable behavior" in a tweet late Thursday. This momentary discretion can jeopardize the most important thing in my life.. I apologize for my inexcusable behavior. pic.twitter.com/Ys5cy4BNxv — Keelon Lawson (@KJLawson2) April 14, 2017 A source close to the situation said Lawson is not expected to lose his scholarship offer from the Jayhawks, who were plagued by off-court drama throughout the 2016-17 season. Lawson's departure from Memphis, where his father, Keelon Lawson, was the director of player personnel under Smith, extended the mass exodus from the Memphis program. The Tigers have lost their top three scorers from last season to the transfer market and six of their top eight scorers overall. Jayhawks coach Bill Self not only lured both K.J. Lawson and Dedric Lawson to Lawrence, but he's also in a good position to land their brothers, Chandler (a top-25 recruit in the 2019 class) and Johnathan (an elite eighth-grader). The Lawsons' move could also impact D.J. Jeffries , their cousin and the No. 6 recruit in the 2019 class, per ESPN's rankings. Last season, K.J. averaged 12.3 points and 8.1 rebounds for Memphis, and Dedric averaged 19.2 points and 9.9 rebounds Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

K.J. Lawson, who announced his transfer from Memphis to Kansas this week, has apologized for explicit remarks he made against Tigers coach Tubby Smith.

In a Snapchat video that circulated on social media Thursday, Lawson looked into a camera and said, "F--- Tubby."

Lawson, who transferred to Kansas with brother and Memphis star Dedric Lawson, apologized for his "inexcusable behavior" in a tweet late Thursday.

This momentary discretion can jeopardize the most important thing in my life.. I apologize for my inexcusable behavior. pic.twitter.com/Ys5cy4BNxv — Keelon Lawson (@KJLawson2) April 14, 2017

A source close to the situation said Lawson is not expected to lose his scholarship offer from the Jayhawks, who were plagued by off-court drama throughout the 2016-17 season.

Lawson's departure from Memphis, where his father, Keelon Lawson, was the director of player personnel under Smith, extended the mass exodus from the Memphis program. The Tigers have lost their top three scorers from last season to the transfer market and six of their top eight scorers overall.

K.J. Lawson, who announced this week that he's transferring from Memphis to Kansas, has apologized for a profane comment he directed at Tubby Smith, his former coach. Justin Ford/USA TODAY Sports

Jayhawks coach Bill Self not only lured both K.J. Lawson and Dedric Lawson to Lawrence, but he's also in a good position to land their brothers, Chandler (a top-25 recruit in the 2019 class) and Johnathan (an elite eighth-grader). The Lawsons' move could also impact D.J. Jeffries, their cousin and the No. 6 recruit in the 2019 class, per ESPN's rankings.

Last season, K.J. averaged 12.3 points and 8.1 rebounds for Memphis, and Dedric averaged 19.2 points and 9.9 rebounds