Brave Dog Dies After Being Stabbed To Death While Saving Its Owner From Being Attacked
Brave Dog Dies After Being Stabbed To Death While Saving Its Owner From Being Attacked
Brave Dog Dies After Being Stabbed To Death While Saving Its Owner From Being Attacked A brave dog was stabbed to death as it tried to fight off an attacker who pulled out a knife at its owner. The incident happened in Mumbai's Sion Koliwada. The man was arrested but was later released on bail. 23-year-old Vyanketesh Devendra got into a heated argument with his girlfriend on Sunday night. When she tried to escape him and run into a nearby house, Devendra pulled out a knife and proceeded to attack her. Sumathi Devendra, who stays with her brother in Mumbai, tried to push him away to protect the woman but he turned on her, waving the knife. Sumathi's pet dog, Lucky tried protecting her and came in between the siblings. Devendra fatally stabbed the dog in its abdomen. Devendra said that the dog kept barking at him and tore his dress. Sumathi filed a complaint with the police under section 429 of the Indian Penal Code. If the charges are proved against him, Devendra can be sent to jail for a term of up to 5 years and/or fined.

A brave dog was stabbed to death as it tried to fight off an attacker who pulled out a knife at its owner. The incident happened in Mumbai's Sion Koliwada. The man was arrested but was later released on bail.

Animalswecare

23-year-old Vyanketesh Devendra got into a heated argument with his girlfriend on Sunday night. When she tried to escape him and run into a nearby house, Devendra pulled out a knife and proceeded to attack her.

Sumathi Devendra, who stays with her brother in Mumbai, tried to push him away to protect the woman but he turned on her, waving the knife. Sumathi's pet dog, Lucky tried protecting her and came in between the siblings. Devendra fatally stabbed the dog in its abdomen.

DogSpot

Devendra said that the dog kept barking at him and tore his dress.

Sumathi filed a complaint with the police under section 429 of the Indian Penal Code. If the charges are proved against him, Devendra can be sent to jail for a term of up to 5 years and/or fined.

With inputs from TOI

Don't Miss 223 SHARES 49 K SHARES 44 K SHARES 34.6 K SHARES