Teacher awarded almost half a million pounds after being hit over head with skate board by violent pupil
Teacher awarded almost half a million pounds after being hit
over head with skate board by violent pupil 
teacher who was awarded almost half a million pounds after being hit over the head with a skate board by a violent pupil was among a 72 per cent rise in compensation pay-outs in the past year. The National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers (NASUWT) were awarded tens of millions of pounds in compensation last year after facing attacks from pupils, injuries and discrimination in the workplace, the latest figures show. It comes amid a surge in violent attacks from students, as the number of children suspended or expelled from school for physically attacking an adult jumped by an average of 10 per cent in the last year, according to Department for Education (DfE) statistics. n the past year, five-figure sums have been brokered for those on the end of the worst treatment. This included a pay out of £455,177.40 which was made to a 47 year-old teacher in the south west who was injured when a student struck her on the back of the head with a skateboard causing her to suffer a head injury. One 44-year-old member of teaching staff receiving more than £98,000 relating to "serious psychological injuries" after an assault by a pupil. The woman, who was headbutted on the nose by the unruly student at a school in the North East of England, was so traumatised by the experience, she quit the profession. Another teacher was given nearly £48,000 in compensation after being subjected to a "prolonged assault" by a female pupil at an academy in the North West of England who "flew into a rage" after being told to stop chewing gum. he NASUWT teaching union said it secured £27.7 million from teachers' employers for its members during the past 12 months. This was a 72% increase on £16.1 million in compensation won for its members in 2015, up from £19.8 million and £20.7 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. hris Keates, NASUWT general secretary, said: "If employers took the welfare of staff seriously and followed good employment and health and safety practices, these cases would never have to be taken and members would have been spared the stress and anxiety of pursuing legal claims. "Behind every one of these cases are teachers who have had their careers, lives and health blighted in the course of simply trying to do their job and improve the lives of children and young people. "Unfortunately, the Government has given little incentive to employers to improve working conditions and working practices following cuts to health and safety inspections and the callous undermining of equalities legislation."

A teacher who was awarded almost half a million pounds after being hit over the head with a skate board by a violent pupil was among a 72 per cent rise in compensation pay-outs in the past year.

The National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers (NASUWT) were awarded tens of millions of pounds in compensation last year after facing attacks from pupils, injuries and discrimination in the workplace, the latest figures show.

It comes amid a surge in violent attacks from students, as the number of children suspended or expelled from school for physically attacking an adult jumped by an average of 10 per cent in the last year, according to Department for Education (DfE) statistics.