Government: 36 Islamic State fighters killed by massive bomb
Government: 36 Islamic State fighters killed by massive bomb
Shares                The attack on a tunnel complex in remote eastern Afghanistan with the largest non-nuclear weapon ever used in combat by the U.S. military left 36 Islamic State group fighters dead and no civilian casualties, Afghanistan officials said Friday. The Ministry of Defense said in a statement that several IS caves and ammunition caches were destroyed by the giant bomb, which terrified villagers on both sides of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border with its "earsplitting blast." The U.S. military headquarters in Kabul said the bomb was dropped at about 7:30 p.m. local time Thursday on a tunnel complex in Nangarhar province, where the Afghan affiliate of the Islamic State group has been operating. The target was close to the Pakistani border. "I want a hundred times more bombings on this group," said Hakim Khan, 50, a resident of Achin district, the site of the blast. Pakistani villagers living near the Afghan border said the explosion was so loud they thought a bomb ad been dropped in their village by U.S. warplanes targeting terrorists in Pakistan. "I was sleeping when we heard a loud explosion. It was an earsplitting blast," said Shah Wali, 46, who lives in the village of Goor Gari, 15 kilometers (9 miles) from the border with Nangarhar. "I jumped from my bed and came out of my home to see what has gone wrong in our village." Wali said dozens of other villagers also came out of homes and later he went near the border, where he met with other residents. He said he could see smoke in the sky. The U.S. estimates 600 to 800 IS fighters are present in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar. The U.S. has concentrated heavily on combatting them while also supporting Afghan forces battling the Taliban . President Donald Trump called Thursday's operation a "very, very successful mission." The bomb, known officially as a GBU-43B, or massive ordnance air blast weapon, unleashes 11 tons of explosives. Inamullah Meyakhil, spokesman for the central hospital in eastern Nangarhar province, said the facility had received no dead or wounded from the attack. District Gov. Ismail Shinwari said there is no civilian property near the airstrike location. There was no immediate comment from the Islamic State group or other militants regarding the U.S. bomb attack. ——— Associated Press writers Anwarullah Khan in Khar, Pakistan, Munir Ahmed in Islamabad, and Maamoun Youssef in Cairo contributed to this report. Shares                  Government: 36 Islamic State fighters killed by massive bomb   US drops 'mother of all bombs' on ISIS forces in Afghanistan   Syrian deal to evacuate tens of thousands of people begins   N. Korean official: US more vicious, aggressive under Trump   CIA director denounces Wikileaks, a group Trump has praised   Critics worry 'junk science' to reign as forensic panel ends   Pence to open Asian trip amid tensions with North Korea   Facebook targets 30,000 fake France accounts before election   Nigeria marks 3 years since schoolgirls' mass abduction   Explosion from rocket test gone awry injures 4 at University of Idaho   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   Biology teacher uses rhymes, raps to teach   Wrongfully convicted men go from serving time to serving others   Teens, retirees assemble Easter baskets for homeless children   Suspected robber drops wad of cash after heist, police say   Doctor delivers 'baseball team' with 3 sets of triplets in 6 weeks   5 dead in Venezuela protests as movement gains steam   24 people rescued from stalled roller coaster at Maryland Six Flags   2 Georgia police officers fired after videos show man being punched, kicked   United Airlines passenger stung by apparent scorpion   UPS driver rescues family from house fire   Report: Uber used secret program to track Lyft drivers   US doctor charged with performing female genital mutilation   Mysterious Ohio family killings still unsolved 1 year later   Indiana teens' mysterious murders still unsolved 2 months later   Meet the 2 wounded veterans running the Boston and London marathons tethered together   Fore! Mob of kangaroos creates hazard on Australian golf course   Records: Federal judge ordered to get alcoholism treatment   Man charged in murder of Chicago judge   'Star Wars' creator on casting an unknown Harrison Ford 40 years ago   Olympian on topless photo shoot: 'Women do not have to be modest in order to be respected'   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter

The attack on a tunnel complex in remote eastern Afghanistan with the largest non-nuclear weapon ever used in combat by the U.S. military left 36 Islamic State group fighters dead and no civilian casualties, Afghanistan officials said Friday.

The Ministry of Defense said in a statement that several IS caves and ammunition caches were destroyed by the giant bomb, which terrified villagers on both sides of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border with its "earsplitting blast."

The U.S. military headquarters in Kabul said the bomb was dropped at about 7:30 p.m. local time Thursday on a tunnel complex in Nangarhar province, where the Afghan affiliate of the Islamic State group has been operating. The target was close to the Pakistani border.

"I want a hundred times more bombings on this group," said Hakim Khan, 50, a resident of Achin district, the site of the blast.

Pakistani villagers living near the Afghan border said the explosion was so loud they thought a bomb ad been dropped in their village by U.S. warplanes targeting terrorists in Pakistan.

"I was sleeping when we heard a loud explosion. It was an earsplitting blast," said Shah Wali, 46, who lives in the village of Goor Gari, 15 kilometers (9 miles) from the border with Nangarhar. "I jumped from my bed and came out of my home to see what has gone wrong in our village."

Wali said dozens of other villagers also came out of homes and later he went near the border, where he met with other residents. He said he could see smoke in the sky.

The U.S. estimates 600 to 800 IS fighters are present in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar. The U.S. has concentrated heavily on combatting them while also supporting Afghan forces battling the Taliban. President Donald Trump called Thursday's operation a "very, very successful mission."

The bomb, known officially as a GBU-43B, or massive ordnance air blast weapon, unleashes 11 tons of explosives.

Inamullah Meyakhil, spokesman for the central hospital in eastern Nangarhar province, said the facility had received no dead or wounded from the attack.

District Gov. Ismail Shinwari said there is no civilian property near the airstrike location.

There was no immediate comment from the Islamic State group or other militants regarding the U.S. bomb attack.

———

Associated Press writers Anwarullah Khan in Khar, Pakistan, Munir Ahmed in Islamabad, and Maamoun Youssef in Cairo contributed to this report.