Nostalgic! TV's Iconic Bahus Parvati And Tulsi Pose For An Epic Selfie With Ekta Kapoor
Nostalgic! TV's Iconic Bahus Parvati And Tulsi Pose For An Epic Selfie With Ekta Kapoor
Nostalgic! TV's Iconic Bahus Parvati And Tulsi Pose For An Epic Selfie With Ekta Kapoor The internet loves reunions of TV actors and happy endings. When Ronit Roy and Smriti Irani had their mid-air reunion, we couldn't get over it. From memes to witty tweets, social media tripped over Tulsi and Mihir's reunion after years. And now, again a happy reunion happened. A big get together happened at the launch of ALTBalaji, the digital platform of Balaji productions. Thanks to producer Ekta Kapoor that she brought her favorite Bahus Tulsi (Smriti Irani) and Parvati (Sakshi Tanwar) and clicked a selfie in one frame.  What are the chances??!!! So lovely to meet @smritiirani in the flight pic.twitter.com/un7eNOd3oc  After ruling the TV industry for years with their most iconic shows and , both Sakshi and Smriti reunited for one photo that will leave all fans into frenzy. Ekta shared a photo with star Sakshi and Union Cabinet Minister of Textiles, Smriti Irani, captioning it as, "Two stalwarts ! D twains meet in delhi" Two stalwarts ! D twains meet in delhi A post shared by Ekta Kapoor (@ektaravikapoor) on Apr 13, 2017 at 5:44am PDT   Internet has found its viral photo of the day and it's surely a happy one!

The internet loves reunions of TV actors and happy endings. When Ronit Roy and Smriti Irani had their mid-air reunion, we couldn't get over it. From memes to witty tweets, social media tripped over Tulsi and Mihir's reunion after years.

And now, again a happy reunion happened. A big get together happened at the launch of ALTBalaji, the digital platform of Balaji productions.

Thanks to producer Ekta Kapoor that she brought her favorite Bahus Tulsi (Smriti Irani) and Parvati (Sakshi Tanwar) and clicked a selfie in one frame.

What are the chances??!!!

So lovely to meet @smritiirani in the flight pic.twitter.com/un7eNOd3oc — Ronit Roy (@RonitBoseRoy) April 1, 2017

After ruling the TV industry for years with their most iconic shows Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi and Kahani Ghar Ghar Ki, both Sakshi and Smriti reunited for one photo that will leave all fans into frenzy.

Ekta shared a photo with Dangal star Sakshi and Union Cabinet Minister of Textiles, Smriti Irani, captioning it as, "Two stalwarts ! D twains meet in delhi"

Two stalwarts ! D twains meet in delhi A post shared by Ekta Kapoor (@ektaravikapoor) on Apr 13, 2017 at 5:44am PDT

Internet has found its viral photo of the day and it's surely a happy one!

Don't Miss 44.2 K SHARES 20.7 K SHARES 19.9 K SHARES 14.9 K SHARES