Fire breaks out at world-famous Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas
Fire breaks out at world-famous Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas
Popular videos    US 'mother of all bombs' kills 36 Isis fighters, Afghan officials say      Watch the 'mother of all bombs' explode      Who are Isis in Afghanistan and why did Trump just bomb them?      What is the 'Mother of All Bombs'?   Flames have engulfed the roof of the world-famous Bellagio Hotel and casino in Las Vegas. Footage taken by onlookers shows the fire on the roof of the south side of the hotel's lake. Emergency crews responded to the fire at the luxury hotel on the city’s strip famous for its fountain display just before 11pm local time. More of the fire at the Bellagio #LasVegas  pic.twitter.com/bERkWGIsa6 The hotel has nearly 4,000 rooms, making it one of the biggest in the world, and its fountain - a huge display which changes in time to music - is a tourist favourite. Clark County Fire said the situation was “extremely difficult” due to the location of the fire and access to the location, local TV network channel KTNV reports . A total of 77 firefighters are reported to have battled the flames, which have now been put out. There has been no reported injuries and the cause of the fire is still unknown. Looks like a fire at the Bellagio. Near the shops pic.twitter.com/6d1umoKSwe More about: Bellagio Hotel Las Vegas Comments

Flames have engulfed the roof of the world-famous Bellagio Hotel and casino in Las Vegas.

Footage taken by onlookers shows the fire on the roof of the south side of the hotel's lake.

Emergency crews responded to the fire at the luxury hotel on the city’s strip famous for its fountain display just before 11pm local time.

More of the fire at the Bellagio #LasVegas pic.twitter.com/bERkWGIsa6 — Brian (@BrianBlogs314) April 14, 2017

The hotel has nearly 4,000 rooms, making it one of the biggest in the world, and its fountain - a huge display which changes in time to music - is a tourist favourite.

Clark County Fire said the situation was “extremely difficult” due to the location of the fire and access to the location, local TV network channel KTNV reports.

The Bellagio Hotel's fountain

A total of 77 firefighters are reported to have battled the flames, which have now been put out.

There has been no reported injuries and the cause of the fire is still unknown.