Afghanistan, Syria, Vin Diesel: Your Friday Briefing
Afghanistan, Syria, Vin Diesel: Your Friday Briefing
Officials in Afghanistan said today that dozens of militants had been killed after the U.S. dropped the most powerful conventional bomb in its arsenal on an Islamic State cave complex. The full extent of the damage was still being assessed. The Pentagon gave no casualty totals for Thursday’s attack, but in a separate announcement it said that an airstrike in Syria had killed 18 fighters allied with the U.S. The admission raised concerns about whether the White House is being sufficiently careful in approving airstrikes in conflict zones. Beijing said today that tensions on the Korean Peninsula could run out of control, after North Korea said it could test a nuclear weapon whenever its leader decided, and as an American naval group neared the peninsula. Advertisement There’s always a learning curve for a new occupant of the White House. For President Trump, that curve has affected issues as varied as Russia, North Korea and the Export-Import Bank . Advertisement We look at several of the president’s policy reversals from the past week, in his own words. Still, Mr. Trump’s reputation for getting things done means that many conservatives do not think his support will suffer if he abandons some of his stances. He signed legislation on Thursday aimed at cutting off federal funding to Planned Parenthood and other groups that perform abortions. Advertisement Choate Rosemary Hall, an elite Connecticut boarding school, revealed that at least 12 former teachers had sexually molested — and, in at least one case, raped — students in a series of cases dating as far back as the 1960s. A year after the armed occupation of a federal wildlife refuge in rural Oregon, a fight over what and whom public lands are for continues. Advertisement Scientists may have found conditions for life on the icy moons of Saturn . We’ve also collected 17 great stories that have nothing to do with politics. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Advertisement Today’s show tries to reconcile the unexpectedly active U.S. military with the isolationist tone of President Trump’s campaign. Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Listen on a computer , an iOS device or an Android device . Business has given brands unprecedented access to consumers, but it has also exposed them to new risks , as United Airlines was reminded this week. Advertisement On Thursday, a lawyer representing the passenger who was filmed being dragged off a United flight outlined his client’s injuries , including a broken nose, a concussion and two knocked-out teeth. , the embattled Fox News host, has expanded his audience through books, speaking engagements and a charity. We look at his extensive reach . Advertisement has long wanted to be a tech hub, but isolation was an issue. Now, at a time of political upheaval around the globe, it has become a selling point . were down on Thursday, and the markets are closed today for Good Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living   grain in your cereal was processed affects your performance. at the gym by learning about really, really short workouts . : Roast a whole head of cauliflower and serve it with a rich romesco sauce. Noteworthy Advertisement Want to make your place irresistible to buyers, or to social media? In today’s 360 video , a Brooklyn loft is transformed and becomes photo-ready. 5 Ways to Get a Picture-Perfect Home Staging your home to sell? Or just want to make it look irresistible on social media? Watch in 360 video as a Williamsburg loft is transformed to make it photo-ready.      Read about how the other side thinks : Why the administration needs Stephen Bannon, the “brilliant incoherence” of President Trump’s foreign policy, and an argument against the first-100-days metric. Advertisement Dan Rooney , the longtime Pittsburgh Steelers chairman, helped shape the modern N.F.L. He was 84. Charlie Murphy , a comedian best known for his work on “Chappelle’s Show,” was also the older brother of the actor and comic Eddie Murphy. He was 57. Advertisement In cinemas, Vin Diesel and his gang of reckless drivers return in “ The Fate of the Furious .” We also review “ The Lost City of Z ” and “ Norman .” For art lovers, we visit the Met and review “ The Theater of Disappearance ,” an ambitious sculpture installation in a rooftop setting. The Book Review has two new columns: Match Book , which offers literary advice, and The Long View , a look at contemporary issues through the lens of recent and historical books. (Plus, 11 new books we recommend .) And if you fancy a getaway, we spent 36 hours in Baltimore and found that Charm City has raised the charm quotient. Advertisement Jimmy Kimmel addressed a push to legalize the use of marijuana north of the border: “So Canada’s about to become the stoner living in America’s attic.” Back Story Over a dinner of crayfish in Stockholm in 1924, two men decided that Sweden needed its own car manufacturer, one that would make vehicles suitable for the harsh local climate and whose guiding principle was safety. Advertisement From their idea came Volvo — a Latin translation of “I roll” — which rolled its first car off the assembly line 90 years ago today. The original model, the ÖV4, was affectionately called “Jakob.” The Swedes were hardly the first to produce automobiles; Karl Benz and Henry Ford, among others, had been at it for decades. Advertisement In 1999, Ford Motor bought Volvo , which was then sold in 2010 to Geely , a Chinese automaker, for $1.3 billion. For the new owner, buying Volvo was momentous: “We are like a poor farm boy pursuing a famous movie star,” Li Shufu, Geely’s chairman, said. Advertisement By the end of next year, the company, which is still based in Sweden, plans to make up to 100,000 cars annually in South Carolina . It’s a head-spinning tale of globalization that started over a humble meal almost a century ago. Advertisement We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Listen on a computer, an iOS device or an Android device.

Business

• Social media has given brands unprecedented access to consumers, but it has also exposed them to new risks, as United Airlines was reminded this week.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Thursday, a lawyer representing the passenger who was filmed being dragged off a United flight outlined his client’s injuries, including a broken nose, a concussion and two knocked-out teeth.

• Bill O’Reilly, the embattled Fox News host, has expanded his audience through books, speaking engagements and a charity. We look at his extensive reach.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• New Zealand has long wanted to be a tech hub, but isolation was an issue. Now, at a time of political upheaval around the globe, it has become a selling point.

• U.S. stocks were down on Thursday, and the markets are closed today for Good Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• How the grain in your cereal was processed affects your performance.

• Save time at the gym by learning about really, really short workouts.

• Recipe of the day: Roast a whole head of cauliflower and serve it with a rich romesco sauce.

Noteworthy

• Tips for a picture-perfect home.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Want to make your place irresistible to buyers, or to social media? In today’s 360 video, a Brooklyn loft is transformed and becomes photo-ready.

Video

• Partisan writing you shouldn’t miss.

Read about how the other side thinks: Why the administration needs Stephen Bannon, the “brilliant incoherence” of President Trump’s foreign policy, and an argument against the first-100-days metric.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• In memoriam.

Dan Rooney, the longtime Pittsburgh Steelers chairman, helped shape the modern N.F.L. He was 84.

Charlie Murphy, a comedian best known for his work on “Chappelle’s Show,” was also the older brother of the actor and comic Eddie Murphy. He was 57.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Easing into the weekend.

In cinemas, Vin Diesel and his gang of reckless drivers return in “The Fate of the Furious.” We also review “The Lost City of Z” and “Norman.”

For art lovers, we visit the Met and review “The Theater of Disappearance,” an ambitious sculpture installation in a rooftop setting.

Photo

The Book Review has two new columns: Match Book, which offers literary advice, and The Long View, a look at contemporary issues through the lens of recent and historical books. (Plus, 11 new books we recommend.)

And if you fancy a getaway, we spent 36 hours in Baltimore and found that Charm City has raised the charm quotient.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• Best of late-night TV.

Jimmy Kimmel addressed a push to legalize the use of marijuana north of the border: “So Canada’s about to become the stoner living in America’s attic.”

Back Story

Over a dinner of crayfish in Stockholm in 1924, two men decided that Sweden needed its own car manufacturer, one that would make vehicles suitable for the harsh local climate and whose guiding principle was safety.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

From their idea came Volvo — a Latin translation of “I roll” — which rolled its first car off the assembly line 90 years ago today. The original model, the ÖV4, was affectionately called “Jakob.”

Photo

The Swedes were hardly the first to produce automobiles; Karl Benz and Henry Ford, among others, had been at it for decades.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In 1999, Ford Motor bought Volvo, which was then sold in 2010 to Geely, a Chinese automaker, for $1.3 billion.

For the new owner, buying Volvo was momentous: “We are like a poor farm boy pursuing a famous movie star,” Li Shufu, Geely’s chairman, said.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By the end of next year, the company, which is still based in Sweden, plans to make up to 100,000 cars annually in South Carolina.

It’s a head-spinning tale of globalization that started over a humble meal almost a century ago.

Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.