This photo of Jeremy Corbyn in a train toilet has become a meme
This photo of Jeremy Corbyn in a train toilet has become a meme
The snap shows the Labour leader leaning on a train toilet door, wearing what appear to be safety glasses and a baseball cap. There's no logo on the cap though... Maybe 'Nationalise the railways again' would be a good call? The bizarre photo was taken while on a visit to a rail factory in Doncaster, but the strange stoic pose seemed too good and opportunity for Twitter. Corbyn goes to the toilet. #ManOfThePeople Needs PPE goggles? What on Earth is he going to do in there? #moab  pic.twitter.com/uJcliC67sA  I've had beckoning looks from by a toilet cubicle door just like this before pic.twitter.com/wHBqyRD7DI tfw you still don't trust those train toilet button locks pic.twitter.com/l6M9Baw4tv  Wait. Does Jeremy have special 'going to the toilet' glasses? pic.twitter.com/FLsazJTpxH   2017's hottest new techno thriller. Jeremy Corbyn is Jason Bourne in The Bourne Incompetency. pic.twitter.com/GQk1gew3nA  Jeremy Corbyn looks like he's about to drop the hottest mixtape of 2017 pic.twitter.com/PvBKiHITKH   My fashion look for summer 2017 is Jeremy Corbyn entering (or emerging from) a train toilet. pic.twitter.com/r0nR1voQx3  looks like a shot from a crime documentary. can't wait for corbyn to crack this cold case pic.twitter.com/xQiOEQUKfr  This toilet was absolutely ram-packed! Had no choice but to do my business on the floor. Hence baseball cap. I have a mandate! McDonnell pic.twitter.com/a4dc2IqVyV  Mr Corbyn did have a look around the rest of the plant.                        Keep scrolling for next article

A picture of Corbyn in a train toilet sparked a meme wave.

The snap shows the Labour leader leaning on a train toilet door, wearing what appear to be safety glasses and a baseball cap.

There's no logo on the cap though... Maybe 'Nationalise the railways again' would be a good call?

The bizarre photo was taken while on a visit to a rail factory in Doncaster, but the strange stoic pose seemed too good and opportunity for Twitter.

One user simply asked why the photo was taken...

Corbyn goes to the toilet. #ManOfThePeople Needs PPE goggles? What on Earth is he going to do in there? #moab pic.twitter.com/uJcliC67sA — Jon Izzard (@JonIzzard) April 14, 2017

Others related to Corbyn’s stern expression.

I've had beckoning looks from by a toilet cubicle door just like this before pic.twitter.com/wHBqyRD7DI — Alex (@rubytrubes) April 14, 2017

tfw you still don't trust those train toilet button locks pic.twitter.com/l6M9Baw4tv — Sam Bowman (@s8mb) April 14, 2017

Some mocked his glasses.

Wait. Does Jeremy have special 'going to the toilet' glasses? pic.twitter.com/FLsazJTpxH — Jake Wilde (@Jake_Wilde) April 13, 2017

While others made movie comparisons.

2017's hottest new techno thriller. Jeremy Corbyn is Jason Bourne in The Bourne Incompetency. pic.twitter.com/GQk1gew3nA — Cuck Norris (@twlldun) April 14, 2017

And one twitter user asked the unthinkable.

Jeremy Corbyn looks like he's about to drop the hottest mixtape of 2017 pic.twitter.com/PvBKiHITKH — Jon Brady (@jonbradyphoto) April 14, 2017

Your SS17 look ladies and gents.

My fashion look for summer 2017 is Jeremy Corbyn entering (or emerging from) a train toilet. pic.twitter.com/r0nR1voQx3 — Nick Hilton (@nickfthilton) April 14, 2017

He could blow the case of the missing opposition wide open!

looks like a shot from a crime documentary. can't wait for corbyn to crack this cold case pic.twitter.com/xQiOEQUKfr — Hannah Thompson (@H_L_Thompson) April 14, 2017

No comment.

This toilet was absolutely ram-packed! Had no choice but to do my business on the floor. Hence baseball cap. I have a mandate!

McDonnell pic.twitter.com/a4dc2IqVyV — Jeremy Corbyn MP (@jeremycorbynn) April 14, 2017

Mr Corbyn did have a look around the rest of the plant.

Here he is taking a photo on his phone.

Pictures: PA

Exiting first class.

Picture: PA

Standing in front of a train.

Picture: PA

And pondering.

Picture: PA

More: How Labour is failing under Jeremy Corbyn in 8 charts