Marshawn Lynch teases Oakland Raiders fans with cryptic tweet
Marshawn Lynch teases Raider Nation with cryptic tweet
Marshawn Lynch teases Raider Nation with cryptic tweet Sources: Lynch, Raiders actively negotiating Sin City or Bust: How the Raiders went Vegas, baby Madden disapproves of Raiders-to-Vegas plan What is Reggie McKenzie's plan for Raiders after a quiet free-agency season? Relocation. Relocation. Relocation. The Raiders' new home, Vegas, is over 30 percent Hispanic 2017 Oakland Raiders preseason schedule includes dress rehearsal at Dallas Cowboys Ex-RB, Seahawks scout Jensen dies at 60 Marshawn Lynch's mother: Oakland is home What would it take for Raiders to acquire Marshawn Lynch? Mel Kiper Jr., Todd McShay go defense, RB for Raiders in dueling mock draft After finding out that Marshawn Lynch has begun the NFL's reinstatement process, Mike and Mike evaluate the likeliness of Lynch still being an impact player. (1:04) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Covered Oakland Raiders for CSNBayArea.com and Sacramento Bee for eight years Member of Pro Football Writers Association Previously worked at Los Angeles Times, Las Vegas Review-Journal and Sports Illustrated Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment ALAMEDA, Calif. -- Cryptic much, Beast Mode? With rumors, reports and innuendo floating about in regard to Marshawn Lynch coming out of retirement to play for his hometown Oakland Raiders , the running back took to social media Thursday night with a tweet as enigmatic as his fun-loving personality. I'm Thankfull!!!! Yes Lawd!!!! — Shawn Lynch (@MoneyLynch) April 14, 2017 Thankful for what, exactly? A release from the Seattle Seahawks , so he can sign a fresh, affordable contract with the Raiders? A restructured deal with Seattle that makes it easier for the Raiders to pick up his contract? A straight trade to Oakland? Lynch wasn’t saying, though Raiders players were weighing in on the possibilities, among them former Seahawks teammate Bruce Irvin: Moooddddd. Yes lawd pic.twitter.com/XvaTX3BPe0 — Bruce Irvin (@BIrvin_WVU11) April 13, 2017 And this from Jalen Richard, who could wind up with a new backfield mate in Lynch: 🤔🤔🤔🤔 pic.twitter.com/efK1G2KmXP — Jalen Richard (@RocketRich30) April 14, 2017 The Raiders and Lynch were negotiating on Thursday and nothing had been officially announced as of 10 p.m. PT. Lynch is due a salary cap number of $9 million in 2017 and a base salary of $7 million in 2018, while Oakland has $27.6 million in cap space for this upcoming season and plans to extend quarterback Derek Carr , All-Pro edge rusher Khalil Mack , the reigning NFL Defensive Player of the Year, and right guard Gabe Jackson . The Raiders begin their offseason training program on Monday. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

After finding out that Marshawn Lynch has begun the NFL's reinstatement process, Mike and Mike evaluate the likeliness of Lynch still being an impact player. (1:04)

Lynch may go through an adjustment period (1:04)

ALAMEDA, Calif. -- Cryptic much, Beast Mode?

With rumors, reports and innuendo floating about in regard to Marshawn Lynch coming out of retirement to play for his hometown Oakland Raiders, the running back took to social media Thursday night with a tweet as enigmatic as his fun-loving personality.

I'm Thankfull!!!! Yes Lawd!!!! — Shawn Lynch (@MoneyLynch) April 14, 2017

Thankful for what, exactly?

A release from the Seattle Seahawks, so he can sign a fresh, affordable contract with the Raiders? A restructured deal with Seattle that makes it easier for the Raiders to pick up his contract? A straight trade to Oakland?

Lynch wasn’t saying, though Raiders players were weighing in on the possibilities, among them former Seahawks teammate Bruce Irvin:

And this from Jalen Richard, who could wind up with a new backfield mate in Lynch:

The Raiders and Lynch were negotiating on Thursday and nothing had been officially announced as of 10 p.m. PT.

Lynch is due a salary cap number of $9 million in 2017 and a base salary of $7 million in 2018, while Oakland has $27.6 million in cap space for this upcoming season and plans to extend quarterback Derek Carr, All-Pro edge rusher Khalil Mack, the reigning NFL Defensive Player of the Year, and right guard Gabe Jackson.

The Raiders begin their offseason training program on Monday.