Hall of Famer Rod Carew's Heart Transplant Donor Was Ex-Ravens TE Konrad Reuland
Hall of Famer Rod Carew's Heart Transplant Donor Was Ex-Ravens TE Konrad Reuland
Hall of Fame second baseman Rod Carew received a heart transplant in December, and it was revealed Friday that his new heart came courtesy of late Baltimore Ravens tight end Konrad Reuland. According to Garrett Downing of the Ravens' official website, Reuland died in December at the age of 29 of a brain Carew suffered a heart attack in 2015, and it was later determined that he needed a heart transplant following complications. The 71-year-old moved to the top of the donor list and also received one of Reuland's kidneys. Per Downing, Reuland's mother, Mary Reuland, is glad Carew is the one who benefited from her son's donation: "We lost a wonderful man, so it had to go into a wonderful person. I couldn't be happier that it went to such a wonderful man." Carew is among the best players in the history of baseball with 3,053 career hits and a lifetime batting average of .328. Reuland bounced around between multiple teams from 2011 through 2016, and appeared in four regular-season contests for the Ravens in 2015.

Brace Hemmelgarn/Getty Images

Hall of Fame second baseman Rod Carew received a heart transplant in December, and it was revealed Friday that his new heart came courtesy of late Baltimore Ravens tight end Konrad Reuland.

According to Garrett Downing of the Ravens' official website, Reuland died in December at the age of 29 of a brain aneurysm, but his organ donation saved Carew's life.

Carew suffered a heart attack in 2015, and it was later determined that he needed a heart transplant following complications.

The 71-year-old moved to the top of the donor list and also received one of Reuland's kidneys.

Per Downing, Reuland's mother, Mary Reuland, is glad Carew is the one who benefited from her son's donation: "We lost a wonderful man, so it had to go into a wonderful person. I couldn't be happier that it went to such a wonderful man."

Carew is among the best players in the history of baseball with 3,053 career hits and a lifetime batting average of .328.

Reuland bounced around between multiple teams from 2011 through 2016, and appeared in four regular-season contests for the Ravens in 2015.