Easy Ways To Boost Your Income Now To Pay For Summer Fun Ahead
Easy Ways To Boost Your Income Now To Pay For Summer Fun Ahead
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  LearnVest       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. twenty20.com/@adventureblanket In a perfect world, summer fun wouldn't cost a dime. But since beach weekends, water park visits and happy hour cocktails on rooftop bars actually add up to considerable cash, now's the time to take on a side hustle to pad your bank account — so you'll have the extra money to throw toward all the things that make the season a total blast. The gig ideas on our list can be pulled off in your downtime, and each one takes advantage of events and activities specific to spring, so opportunities abound. Start building your summer fun fund right now. Always had a knack for algebra or essay writing? With final exams and entrance tests for college on the calendar, many high school and college kids are going to need extra help making the grade. Your services as an in-person or online tutor could fetch $10 to $20 an hour. Tutor.com is one of several sites that can help you get started, or advertise yourself on Craigslist, a neighborhood Facebook page, or your town's Nextdoor.com page. RELATED: Cyber Side Gigs: Easy Ways to Make Extra Cash at Home Calling strikes and outs as an umpire for a youth league can be a lucrative way to enjoy America’s favorite pastime. Leagues have different levels of training; for some it might just require a working knowledge of the game and a healthy dose of composure and patience (if you’ve ever encountered youth sports parents, you know what we mean). Pay can run $15 to $30 per game. To find out more, connect with your community or city recreation department. Spring is bursting with photo opps. If you’ve got decent camera skills and know your way around photo or video editing software, offer to take photos or videos at events, so busy hosts don’t have to worry about capturing every special moment themselves. Depending on your know-how and the type of event, you can charge up to $100 for a half hour, says Nick Loper, who runs SideHustleNation.com . Another way to make cash from photos is by selling your images to a stock photography house or service. Or use an app called Foap . Just set up an account and upload your photos; if a buyer bites, Foap splits the $10 licensing fee with you. Spring is all about celebrations and milestones, which means more people are throwing parties — and in need of organizers, catering help and even cake decorators. Signing up with a catering staffing agency is one way to go, or you could spread the word among friends and via your own social media or community Facebook pages that you’re looking to put your organizing skills or artistic talents up for bidding. RELATED: How 3 People Turned Their Passions Into 9-to-5 Jobs Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

By Cathie Ericson

This story originally appeared on LearnVest as "Side Gigs You Can Do Now So You Have Extra Cash for the Summer."

In a perfect world, summer fun wouldn't cost a dime. But since beach weekends, water park visits and happy hour cocktails on rooftop bars actually add up to considerable cash, now's the time to take on a side hustle to pad your bank account — so you'll have the extra money to throw toward all the things that make the season a total blast.

The gig ideas on our list can be pulled off in your downtime, and each one takes advantage of events and activities specific to spring, so opportunities abound. Start building your summer fun fund right now.

Help Students Ace Exams

Always had a knack for algebra or essay writing? With final exams and entrance tests for college on the calendar, many high school and college kids are going to need extra help making the grade. Your services as an in-person or online tutor could fetch $10 to $20 an hour. Tutor.com is one of several sites that can help you get started, or advertise yourself on Craigslist, a neighborhood Facebook page, or your town's Nextdoor.com page.

RELATED: Cyber Side Gigs: Easy Ways to Make Extra Cash at Home

Play Ball

Calling strikes and outs as an umpire for a youth league can be a lucrative way to enjoy America’s favorite pastime. Leagues have different levels of training; for some it might just require a working knowledge of the game and a healthy dose of composure and patience (if you’ve ever encountered youth sports parents, you know what we mean). Pay can run $15 to $30 per game. To find out more, connect with your community or city recreation department.

Snap and Sell Photos

Spring is bursting with photo opps. If you’ve got decent camera skills and know your way around photo or video editing software, offer to take photos or videos at events, so busy hosts don’t have to worry about capturing every special moment themselves. Depending on your know-how and the type of event, you can charge up to $100 for a half hour, says Nick Loper, who runs SideHustleNation.com.

Another way to make cash from photos is by selling your images to a stock photography house or service. Or use an app called Foap. Just set up an account and upload your photos; if a buyer bites, Foap splits the $10 licensing fee with you.

Work the Party Circuit

Spring is all about celebrations and milestones, which means more people are throwing parties — and in need of organizers, catering help and even cake decorators. Signing up with a catering staffing agency is one way to go, or you could spread the word among friends and via your own social media or community Facebook pages that you’re looking to put your organizing skills or artistic talents up for bidding.

RELATED: How 3 People Turned Their Passions Into 9-to-5 Jobs