Amitabh Bachchan Remembers His Grandmother While Donning A Sikh Look, Gets Emotional
Amitabh Bachchan Remembers His Grandmother While Donning A Sikh Look, Gets Emotional
Amitabh Bachchan Remembers His Grandmother While Donning A Sikh Look, Gets Emotional Bollywood legend Amitabh Bachchan who is always forever grateful to his parents, once again remembered his family. During a shoot of a commercial, Big B donned a Sikh look and became nostalgic right after. As many of you know, Amitabh's mother, Teji Bachchan was born into a Sikh Khatri Punjabi family. She met her husband Harivansh, then an English teacher, at the Allahabad University while she was teaching Psychology at Khoob Chand Degree College, Lahore, British India (now in Pakistan). The couple got married in Allahabad in 1941. T 2493 - My Nani, Amar Kaur Sodhi .. and my Nana Khazan Singh Suri .. must be smiling from the heavens to see me thus .. in my Sikh roots !! pic.twitter.com/LQ5T7OeEFO Remembering his Sikh roots, Amitabh took to Twitter and shared,” My Nani, Amar Kaur Sodhi .. and my Nana Khazan Singh Suri .. must be smiling from the heavens to see me thus .. in my Sikh roots.”

Bollywood legend Amitabh Bachchan who is always forever grateful to his parents, once again remembered his family.

Twitter/ Amitabh Bachchan

During a shoot of a commercial, Big B donned a Sikh look and became nostalgic right after. As many of you know, Amitabh's mother, Teji Bachchan was born into a Sikh Khatri Punjabi family.

Twitter/ Amitabh Bachchan

She met her husband Harivansh, then an English teacher, at the Allahabad University while she was teaching Psychology at Khoob Chand Degree College, Lahore, British India (now in Pakistan). The couple got married in Allahabad in 1941.

T 2493 - My Nani, Amar Kaur Sodhi .. and my Nana Khazan Singh Suri .. must be smiling from the heavens to see me thus .. in my Sikh roots !! pic.twitter.com/LQ5T7OeEFO — Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) April 13, 2017

Remembering his Sikh roots, Amitabh took to Twitter and shared,” My Nani, Amar Kaur Sodhi .. and my Nana Khazan Singh Suri .. must be smiling from the heavens to see me thus .. in my Sikh roots.”