Q&A: Student Loan Forgiveness
Q&A: Student Loan Forgiveness
Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Hi, Ron Lieber here. I’m the “Your Money” columnist for the The Times. Last weekend, I wrote a column about the confusion over public service loan forgiveness. Last month, I sounded off on the complexity of the college financing system generally. You had lots of questions. So we’ve brought in student loan expert Rohit Chopra to help answer as many as we can. He’s the former student loan ombudsman at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and a former U.S. Department of Education staffer who is now a senior fellow at the Consumer Federation of America.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Hi, I’m Rohit Chopra. I used to oversee the student loan industry and saw every day how our student loan system was badly broken. Hope I can help you with some of your questions! Let’s get started.   C C.S. Reader, Chicago  For those who have moved overseas, are public agencies and non-profits (latter equiv to 501c within given country) eligible for such program or applies strictly to roles within US 50 states?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  C.S., the answer is no for government employment. As best I understand it, they wanted to incentivize government work here in the United States given that it’s the U.S. government that leant this money in the first place. Ditto for the nonprofits – has to be a U.S. registered 501c3.   J Joshua Reader, Trenton, NJ  Hello, and thank you for taking my question. I have around 38k in refinanced and consolidated student loans from the DOE. My monthly payment is about 300$, and the term of the loan is 10 years. I consolidated my loans with the DOE to apply for forgiveness, but they will be all paid off in 10years? The rate is 6.5% and I’m debating taking a home equity loan and at lower percentage to pay off the loan earlier without forgiveness. I work as a municipal firefighter. 13 years in the job. What are your thoughts on how I should proceed?     Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Joshua, you are right – if you’re paying under the normal 10-year plan you’ll be all paid off in 10 years. Public service loan forgiveness benefits those who are in an income-driven repayment plan, where you would pay less than you are now, depending on your salary and other factors. Once you’re paying less, your loan would last longer.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  And then, after 120 qualifying payments, you would get forgiveness. So your next step is to see if you qualify for an income-driven plan.   MR Mary Ann  Remsen Reader, Georgetown, KY  Can I get loan forgiveness after paying for more than 20 years? I have paid the amount of my student loan in interest and more.  My student loan was consolidated in 1995 and I was told by Navient and Sally Mae that I cannot get loan forgiveness as a teacher as the law did not go into effect until after that date.  My interest rate is 8% and has not changed.  I have had deferments when I was completing another degree and when I was not able to pay due to unemployment.  During the many years of paying on this loan, I was not offered an income based choice until recently.  Rather, my interest accumulated to the point that the amount owed increased.  I have many more questions about how I can receive loan forgiveness.  I am 69 years old and do not want to pay for this loan any longer.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Mary Ann, I’m alarmed to hear that Navient and Sallie Mae didn’t offer you an income-driven repayment option. You won’t really be able to benefit from forgiveness unless you’re on this plan. Sorry I don’t have better news. You might have some other options though, check out this tool .   F Frank Reader, Austin  My partner and I each owe about $50k in student loans and are both about 5 years into the public service forgiveness program. The recent commotion surrounding the program (lawsuits and vague statements from de vos) has us wondering if we should just knuckle down and pay them off. Our concern is that if the program goes away, we’ll end up paying way more in interest. Thanks!   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Frank, it’s hard to make political predictions in this day and age. Are you enrolled in income-driven repayment?   JD Jennifer Davidson Reader, Berkeley, CA  I work full time as a seminary faculty member. Seminary faculty by and large make much less money than PhD faculty at other private and public institutions, so I have been hopeful about student loan forgiveness. I do not proselytize as part of my job, but I do teach about theology and religion. Will that disqualify me from the student loan forgiveness program?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Jennifer, you should be able to qualify for public service loan forgiveness as long as the seminary isn’t for-profit and you are not proselytizing. Question 29 gets at this a bit too.   G Gen Reader, Rockville, MD  I have been in public service for over ten years, and I have Federal Stafford Loans. My question is: I only recently discovered that the type of repayment plan matters in addition to the type of loan. Has this always been the case since PSLF was first announced years ago?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Gen, unfortunately, yes, it’s always been the case and awareness of this has not been high. Were you in a direct loan and the right kind of repayment plan? If so, you may be able to get past credit.   J Julia Reader, Chicago, IL  I have been working for 5 years for city government. If I stop working for a couple years (to go back to school) and then come back to government, will I still qualify for public loan forgiveness program? Also, what if some of my payments were $0. Thanks!   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Julia, this is a tricky question. As long as your $0 payments were under an income-driven repayment plan, they qualify. You’ll need to make 120 payments while in public service, so if you return, the clock will start ticking again. This PDF might help .   RR Richard Ross Reader, New York, NY  How do you move your loan to the forgiveness program and when is the right time to move it?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Richard, as soon as possible. There are links to some good educational materials from this column I wrote a week ago: Panicked Borrowers, and the Education Department’s Unsettling Silence Teachers, doctors and others in the public service loan forgiveness program seek guidance on whether they are truly eligible to erase their student loan debt. The New York Times    T Tara Reader, Brooklyn, NY  Hi, I am in an income-driven repayment program, work for a 501c3 and have made 82 payments toward the 120 payments for forgiveness. I have submitted forms annually and been approved. I’m wondering, when the loan is forgiven in 3 years, will I owe taxes on the amount forgiven?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Tara, congrats on getting this far! You will not owe taxes on forgiven debt in this instance. This is true only for the public service loan forgiveness program – not for other income-driven repayment plans that may include loan forgiveness.   B Beau Reader, Denver, CO  Do your loans have to have originated in 2007? Or can you qualify (assuming they are all federal loans as mine are) so long as you have made 120 even if they originated before (mine began in 2005)?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Beau, qualifying payments aren’t retroactive prior to October 2007.   RB Robert Birch Reader, Jacksonville, FL  If payments go to zero because the loan was switched to Income Based Repayment, what happens to the amount of interest accrual?  In other words, when payments are zero because income is inadequate, does the interest still accrue on the loan, or is interest accrual suspended until income is high enough to create a payment obligation?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Robert, when you’re on an income-driven repayment plan, interest accrual will make your balance go up if you’re making a $0 payment (there’s some exceptions to this for Subsidized Loans). This can be scary for a lot of people, since their balance will go up. That being said, income-driven plans can be a good way to avoid falling behind.   SS Sean S Reader, Carson City, NV  Forgiveness of private student loans. All of my public student loans were forgiven due to permanent disability. However, I still have approximately $80,000 in private loans that were not covered by Obamas loan forgiveness program. What do I do to deal with these law access loans that I have no way to repay after substantial head injuries?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Sean, truly sorry to hear of your injuries. This is a tough spot, as there are no laws or regulations that require private lenders to forgive debt. Bankruptcy may be an option – in many federal judicial districts, if you can prove that there is a “certainty of hopelessness” to your future prospects to pay off the loan, then a judge may grant you relief. I wrote about this several years ago and my colleague Tara had a more hopeful update a few years later. Here are those stories.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Last Plea on School Loans: Proving a Hopeless Future To discharge student loans in bankruptcy, a borrower may have to convince a judge that life will never get better and destitution is certain. The New York Times   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Judges Rebuke Limits on Wiping Out Student Loan Debt Erasing student loans requires proof that paying the debt would cause “undue hardship,” and some judges think the rigid standard should be reconsidered. The New York Times     CH Cynthea Hausman Reader, Burlington, VT  I have a loan from the 90’s with 8% interest. I’ve reached a tipping point where more of my payment will now go to principal but, I still have 15 years at this rate to pay it off. Should I try to move the debt to a bank to get a lower interest rate or leave it where it is?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Cynthea, I’m not sure if your loan is a private loan or a federal loan. If you’re thinking about refinancing from a federal loan into a private loan, be careful. This page might help .   L Lisa Reader, Philadelphia, PA  I am 57 years old. In 2008 I got my MBA. Four months later the job market crashed alongside the financial debacle. I have been in an nonstop cycle of freelancing work, part-time work and full time temp work. I owe $100,000 in student loans. What should I do? We had to sell our house and now live in an apartment. My spouse makes about 70K annually.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Lisa, your story is all too familiar. So many people started in school when the economy was more stable, and then they graduated in a tough job market. Your options vary on federal loans and private loans. For federal loans, it’s easier to get a more affordable payment. If you have private loans, you might be out of luck. Check this out .   K Kyle Reader, Portland, OR  I’ll be graduating this June with my Master’s degree in counseling. I’m anticipating having about $15,000 in loans to pay off. Considering you have to make payments for 10 years to qualify for forgiveness, I’m wondering if it’s even worth it for me to try to participate. What’s the monetary cut-off in your opinion? Also, how can I set myself up to take best advantage of my repayment options before I graduate?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Kyle, nice work getting out with that little debt. It’s possible, likely even, that you won’t qualify for the sort of income-driven payment programs that would make public service loan forgiveness worth your while. It might be wiser just to knock it off as soon as you can. (Though I wouldn’t be a good personal finance columnist if I didn’t make sure you were also taking advantage of any match you might get from an employer on retirement savings…)   M Mel Reader, Fort Collins, CO  How do I know if my repayment plan is income-driven? (Sorry, I had my husband handle it, so I don’t know.) I got a rejection letter from the forgiveness program that said “No Eligible Loan Type” and I don’t know exactly what that means because I believe I did have William D. Ford Federal Direct Loans.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Mel, the best way to figure out what payment plan you’re on is to ask your loan servicer – the company that sends you a bill. You should register for their website to check your account. You can also give them a call. They should be able to tell you. Regarding your rejection letter, that is really worrisome, given that you have a Direct Loan. I would immediately file a complaint with the CFPB here: https://www.consumerfinance.gov/complaint/   V Vinn Reader, Brooklyn, NY  I am a postdoctoral scientist. My ability to pay back my student loans is directly tied to grant funding rates and success with grants would allow me to transition to a faculty job as a professor. With poor science funding my postdoctoral time only increases leaving me unable to pay my loans off. Is there forgiveness when my success and ability to pay is regulated by government investment?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Vinn, the thing about the income-driven payment plans that get you set up for public service loan forgiveness is that they don’t care about the source of income or that it may be irregular. All that matters is how much you make. And you’ll put in new papers to determine your payment each year, so that recertification will reflect whatever funding you might have received.   PM Peter Melendez Reader, Tobyhanna, PA  Is there a way to negotiate a private student loan by a cosigner?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Peter, private student loans are not eligible for public service loan forgiveness or any of the federal income based repayment plans. I wrote about private student loans and issues around cosigners here not long ago: The Big Pause You Should Take Before Co-Signing a Student Loan Lending your signature and good credit history to someone could indeed make a difference, but it comes with plenty of risk. The New York Times    M Madeline Reader, New York, NY  My spouse and I have over $200k in student loan debt after he graduated from law school 5 years ago.  We are enrolled in both an income-driven repayment plan and are also expecting complete forgiveness in 5 years (he works at a 501c3 and has been keeping up with the paperwork). Because we’re expecting forgiveness, we haven’t paid any more than required under IDR. Therefore, given the size of the loan, our payments haven’t been enough to pay down the principal at all. We recognize that this policy is somewhat silly, because we’re both professionals with graduate degrees who are doing okay in life and don’t “deserve” a $200k payoff as much as some others do.  We can also tell it’s ridiculous that we’re enrolled in a plan that doesn’t pay down principal, and the government will just be on the hook to pay the (increased) amount later on.  However, we’ve spent the last 5 years planning our lives around this expectation of loan forgiveness - everything from career decisions to purchasing our home. Do you think that if there are any changes to the program, they will be grandfathered in?  Are we fools to rely on the program that has been promised?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Madeline, political prediction is a tough business. I don’t think you’re a fool for staying the course. I know a lot of us will fight hard to make sure the rules aren’t changed in the middle of the game. No one should have the rug pulled out from under them if they’ve been playing by the rules.   J Julianna Reader, Boston, MA  Is the forgiven amount taxed? I’ve been told that the forgiven remainder is considered income. Another person suggested that the remainder is taken out of tax refunds.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Julianna, this can get confusing. With public service loan forgiveness, you do not – DO NOT – have to pay taxes on the forgiven amount. But with OTHER income-driven repayment programs through the federal government that may involve forgiveness, there will, in theory, be a big tax bill. I wrote about the “in theory” part here years ago: For Student Borrowers, Relief Now May Mean a Big Tax Bill Later Two federal loan programs that include loan forgiveness can result in a huge tax bill years later when the remaining balance is forgiven. The New York Times    Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  I think there’s a chance that some kind of bailout might come along when/if this number gets really big, but I don’t know that I would plan on it.   NA Natalia Abrams Reader, Sherman Oaks, CA  We know that there are many repayment programs that lead to loan forgiveness and the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program - are these programs at risk under the Trump administration/DeVos’ DOE?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Natalia, Public Service Loan Forgiveness and the income-based repayment plan are enshrined in law. That means it will take an Act of Congress to kill it. I know you’ve been doing a lot to advocate for borrowers, but we all need to speak up to make sure that policymakers don’t punish borrowers for playing by the rules.   A Ayla Reader, Washington, DC  Hi, I’m about 7 years into my 10 years of qualifying payments for public service loan forgiveness. As I contemplate switching jobs (I currently work for the federal government, but would consider a role at a nonprofit), is there a way to get my loan servicer to “pre-certify” a potential new employer before I accept the job?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Ayla, you are way on top of your game. Your next/possible employer may already know if it qualifies. But the way certification happens is that you have your employer partially fill out your certification form, so that can’t happen until you actually work there. If it’s a legit 501c3 though, you should probably be fine. Remember, though, that the ABA employees (not a 501c3) were told their employer was good to go and then the DOE changed its mind. I wish there was 100% certainty here… They Thought They Qualified for Student Loan Forgiveness. Years Later, the Government Changes Its Mind. The Education Department is sued by lawyers who thought they had qualified for a federal loan-forgiveness program only to be told later that they did not. The New York Times    Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Ayla, your situation is all too familiar. Ron is right. I hope that we can fix this system so that borrowers can get some actual certainty about whether their employment qualifies.   J Jeff Reader, Brooklyn, NY  Rohit’s response to Frank makes it sound like there less than near-certainty that current PSLF enrollees would be grandfathered in should there be any changes to the program? Given that the Master Promissary Note specifically refers to IBR/PSLF, my understanding was that the government would have an uphill battle pulling the rug out from people who relied on this when they made their career decisions. Is there cause for alarm for those of us who are just a couple of years away from forgiveness?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Jeff, I’m not a lawyer, but I hope you’re right. I don’t think you should be alarmed, but we all need to keep our eyes open in case there are proposals to change the rules for existing borrowers. They did this before in 2005, when bankruptcy law was changed not just for future loans, but for all loans.   AR Alex Ryer Reader, Eaton, CO  I am 63 years old with student loans in the neighborhood of $30,000. My income is low and I have not had to pay on my loans for 5 years. How long until they are forgiven due to low income?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Alex, it sounds like you’re in an income-driven plan if you’re making no payments. Depending on the plan, you’ll need to pay for 20 to 25 years before getting forgiveness.   C Clark Reader, Englewood, NJ  If a parent took out a PLUS loan, would the forgiveness policies apply to those loans as well?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Clark, maybe. See question 11 here . Good luck.   CM Cameron Xavier McLinden Reader, Brooklyn, NY  My girlfriend and I moved in together and now she is starting to pay off her debt. She has only private loans, from three different companies, with a total just over 120,000. She is a dental hygienist graduating from NYU so she is making pretty ok money, but the companies have given her bills of approx 1,700 a month. They aren’t allowing her to consolidate or pay an income-based plan or anything. What options are there so that she isn’t left with a balance of bills per month that relies on me to pay anything aside from her basics for the next decade?     Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Cameron, sorry you’re in this spot. Are you certain they were all private loans originally, even if the current service collecting payments is a private company? These lenders can’t prevent you from refinancing the loans, and it’s possible that another company might allow her to put all of the loans in one place at a lower rate and make one payment, depending on her credit and income. And while this won’t work, I’d urge her to talk to NYU about this. I believe and have for a long time that schools could be doing more on the front end to make sure people are in the best possible loan programs. More on NYT here from an old column… Another Debt Crisis Is Brewing, This One in Student Loans Ms. Munna does not want to walk away from her loans in the same way many mortgage holders are. It would be difficult in any event because federal bankruptcy law makes it nearly impossible to discharge student loan debts. But unless she manages to improve her income quickly, she doesn’t have a lot of good options for digging out. The New York Times    J Joseph Reader, Tempe, AZ  I’ve recently learned about this program. I’ve been employed by a city police department for several years and made payments on muy student loans for the past 3 or 4. Is it too late to attempt to enroll in the loan forgiveness program, and provided I’ve got the proper repayment plan (I’m not sure how to tell), will my past year’s payments count toward the ten years?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Joseph, it’s not too late. In fact, there’s no real way to enroll. The way this program was implemented has been maddening. Your service will count, as long as it’s for a qualifying loan in a qualifying repayment plan. Hopefully this page will help .   J Joe Reader, Palm Desert CA  How would IBR apply if my only income is social security?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Joe, Social Security income is treated just like any other income when it comes to the income-driven plan. The calculator here may help with an estimate.   T Tara Reader, Boston, MA  I owe about $29,000 in loans and am about to start a job at an eligible nonprofit. My monthly payments are locked in at $209.00. Is it worth it to apply to the program?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Tara, it depends on your income and whether you qualify for an income-driven plan. If so, your payments may go down a bit and then there will be some debt to forgive at the end.   SW Sara Dayna Willard Reader, San Francisco, CA 94127  I just applied for an Income Driven Loan payback with Naviet but I still have not heard back from Naviet and it has been over a month.  I want to go back to school and complete my degree but I’m afraid of getting more indebt.  Please help me.  Thank you!   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Sara, law enforcement agencies have sued Navient for illegal conduct. I’m sorry to hear that you’re having problems with them. I recommend registering for their website, logging into your account, and sending a message asking for an update through the online messaging portal. Save all of your correspondence with them. If you don’t hear back quickly, file a complaint with the CFPB .   RL Rose Langston Reader  I am constantly bombarded with calls by people saying that they want to help me with my student loan. After I’ve already cleared my student debt up nearly over 2 years ago. Isn’t this considered as harassment?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Rose, debt collector harassment is illegal. Read more here .   SH Sega Howel Reader, Durham, NC  How far back does the public service forgiveness program go?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Sega, payments after October 2007 on Direct Loans count, as long as you have a qualifying payment and are in a qualifying job.   EI Eric Iversen Reader, Washburn Wi.  I entered a loan rehabilitation program over a year ago with a company Performant. I was told if I made 9 consecutive payments that I could a avoid going into default. I made those payments and didn’t hear back from them so I called them and they told me that I wasn’t in their program, that I had signed a paper that I didn’t want to be in their program, which I found out later that I had. The paper was entitled Confirmation of Agreement and towards the bottom it did say that if I didn’t want to be in their program that I should sign it. However, I never knew I wasn’t in their program. Those payments were going to them and they never told me I wasn’t in their program. So I went into default and now they have been garnishing my wages for over a year. Do I have any legal recourse at this point?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Eric, I don’t fully understand your situation, but it sounds like you’re were in a rehabilitation program, which helps borrowers get out of default after making 9 payments. If you feel you were tricked or misled and want a clear response from Performant, file a complaint with the CFPB .   G Gen Reader, Rockville, MD  Thank you for your response. I have a direct consolidation loan with a term of over ten years, but it is not income based. Is there anything I can do to get credit?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Gen, I’ve got bad news. You’re in a payment plan that doesn’t count. It sounds like your servicer never warned you about this. There’s no way to undo this. I still recommend pursuing in an income-driven plan if you’re worried about your payment. This repayment plan will qualify toward the 120 month clock.   DK Denise Kronstadt Reader, Piermont NY  My son works at a nonprofit preserve in NYS. What might he do regarding student loans? He graduated from a SUNY school.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Denise, it depends on what type of loans he has. This page should help .   J Jonathan Reader, Brooklyn  I’ve been a resident physician in a non-profit hospital for the past 4 years and having been paying back consolidated federal loans using an income-based repayment plan for 3.5 yrs. I haven’t submitted an employment certification form yet but plan to do it when I leave this hospital in 2 months. Was I supposed to be doing this every year? When I submit the form is there any kind of confirmation that it has been received or that I am provisionally enrolled in the public service loan forgiveness plan?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Jonathan, I recommend you do it every year, but you don’t have to. Sounds like you have a good plan to do it when you leave. Once you submit the form, your loans might be transferred to a new servicer and you’ll get informed about this. That new servicer will likely be FedLoan Servicing. You’ll be able to check how many qualifying payments you’ve made based on your certification form. Hope this helps.   DS Dr. Mark A. Shulman Reader, Owings Mills, Md.  I am the father of grad student who finished her Master’s Program in 2016. She is currently working as a psychological counselor for Partners Health Care in Boston. She took out loans  (95% Federally subsidized, 5% Perkins) for her tuition and is currently enrolled in the PAYE program. Partners informed her that since they are a non-profit organization (Mass. General with Brigham Women’s Hospital) with a 403b plan, they are able to grant her loan forgiveness if she works there for 10 years. Do they fulfill the qualifications necessary to her not to worry about continuing to pay after her 10 years are up, assuming that she stays there?  Also, you should mention that even though someone like her may be able to write off the balance, there are still tax raminfications. As far as I know, the IRS sees this type of loan forgiveness as earned income and will be taxed accordingly. I look forward to your response.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Mark, again (seems like we can’t say this enough), loan forgiveness in the public service loan forgiveness program is not taxable. Her debt will vanish and she will not get a bill from the IRS. That is not the case for other income-driven repayment programs that allow for forgiveness of remaining balances. Also, just to be clear, Partners is not forgiving the debt – all they do is sign her form attesting to their status as a 501c3. And if they are not a 501c3, then there is a bit more risk here. But if they are, then I’d be close to certain that she’ll be able to get this debt forgiven as long as she is in the right loan and the right repayment plan. More on that here. Panicked Borrowers, and the Education Department’s Unsettling Silence Teachers, doctors and others in the public service loan forgiveness program seek guidance on whether they are truly eligible to erase their student loan debt. The New York Times    AB A Doctor in Brooklyn Reader, Brooklyn, NY  What advice would you give individuals interested in signing up for PSLF given the uncertainty about the program?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Doctor in Brooklyn, my advice is to enroll in income-driven repayment. This will make sure you have enough flexibility in your budget to save for retirement and meet other financial goals. If I had to bet on it, I’d say that existing borrowers won’t lose out.   J Josh Reader, Stafford, VA  I attended an online program, but during my tenure my University lost its Accreditation, but said those enrolled at the time would still have their degree accredited. The school has since closed. Is there any type of loan forgiveness for a situation like this. I feel like this kind of diminishes my degree. Thank you.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Josh, you will qualify for closed school discharge if it shut down while you were in school.   J Jessica Reader, New York, NY  I am a pediatrics resident with 200k of direct student loans in my second year of residency. My parents just offered to take the loans at a 2.3% rate. Do you think it is safer to wait for PSLF or just let my parents take the loans at the lower interest rate? It seems like a gamble if the program will still exist in 8 years.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Jessica, tough one. On one level, this is a basic math problem – interest spent over 10 years in PSLF vs what you’ll pay to your folks. But on the risk front, what happens if one or more parents dies? What if they change their mind? And if they forgive the debt in 8 years or whatever, I’m pretty sure that’s a taxable event for you. (Or are they taking their own loan out at 2.3% somehow – and this isn’t a private family loan?)     S S Reader, California  Do you think student loan public service loan forgiveness will go away / be capped? Should those of us who went into public service eligible jobs (teaching at universities) be worried?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  S, there is bipartisan support for it being capped at the minimum. President Obama wanted to cap forgiveness for public service folks at $57,500. Here is a bit more on the policy points . (If this does happen, then the next question will be what happened to people who are in repayment. I can’t imagine they wouldn’t be grandfathered, but you never know.)   QT Quinn T. Reader, Baltimore, MD  Hopefully this is not too broad of a question, but what impact would (tax) filing Married-Jointly have on an individual’s income-based loan repayments and on public-service 10yr loan forgiveness eligibility? (Only one spouse, not both, has significant student loans and works in public service.) We’re forgoing tax advantages in the short-term by filing Married-Separately, but counting on the long-term benefit of loan forgiveness to outweigh them.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Quinn, generally speaking, you’re income-driven repayment amount will be based on the combined income of you and your spouse. You may be one of the situations where being married filing separately might be beneficial, though there are other tax considerations to think about. It also depends which income-driven plan you’re on. Read more in this PDF .   PS Parker S. Reader, Seattle, WA  Any insights re: a possible cap on the loan amount forgiven, and whether this would apply ‘retroactively’ also to those of us already ‘certified’ in the program, or just to new enrollees once/(if) a cap is implemented?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Parker, I tackled this up above. If I had to guess, I’d guess that this will eventually be capped at a certain amount that can be forgiven and that people currently in the plan will be grandfathered. But this political environment is just too hard to predict, let alone what may be happening in 5-10 years when you may still be very much in this…   CD Chris Dieringer Reader, Cherry Hill, NJ  My son started participating in this program early this year. How can he be sure he is compliant with all requirements?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Chris, if he’s filling out an employer certification form, his loan servicer should be informing him on how many qualifying payments he has made toward the 120 month goal.   T Tom Reader, Macomb, MI  How can a nonprofit make you eligible for PSLF and then on subsequent years be void for that eligibility as I have heard on the red recently   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Tom, see here. Unless the DOE settles, this will end up in court. Student Loan Forgiveness Program Approval Letters May Be Invalid, Education Dept. Says Over 550,000 people have applied to have their student loans forgiven, and thousands of approval letters have been sent. But they might be wrong. The New York Times    D Donald Reader, Brooklyn, NY  If you’re a person with federal loans and enrolled in the PSLF program, when you complete your 120 payments, are you responsible for the interest accrued at the end or is that forgiven as well?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Donald, it all goes away, all of it.   SS Sean S. Reader, Los Angeles, CA  Is there any way for payments made before enrolling in the IBR plan – often HIGHER than the income-based ones – to be considered qualifying payments? Seems nonsensical that they wouldn’t.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Sean S., standard repayment plans count toward the 120 months.   SC Steven Collins Reader, Orange County, CA  I put paying back my student loan on hold, and though I have a job, I’m not making enough to pay my bills, and barely my rent.  Is there a way to extend my forbearance even though I’m working?  It’s possible I’ve used up all my extensions.  Thanks   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Steven, forbearance is usually a band-aid solution. You need to check out income-driven repayment on your federal loans. Private loans are much tougher. Check out this sample letter you can send to your private loan servicer.   M MJ Reader, Seattle, WA  I have been paying on law school loans since 98 with forebearances for pregnancy and divorce. Loans incurred 93-97. Navient says I still owe 95,000. Someone told me they are unable to collect after 20 years. Any truth to that. Now having to take plus loans for kids’ college because still paying on my own loans. I am 50.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  MJ, it is not true that they cannot collect after 20 years. Some people, unfortunately, have their Social Security checks garnished. Good luck with this – your debt may help your own child qualify for more financial aid at some schools.   C Chelcey Reader, Brooklyn, NY  I have made 52 payments in the public service loan forgiveness program, working for a 501c3 under the income-based repayment plan. I pay $357 a month which does not hit the principal. Each year that loan accrues X amount of interest. If I am not paying into the principal the amount goes up every year. Is the original X amount forgiven, or is the original X amount PLUS the X amount of interest accrued forgiven as well?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Chelcey, the entire remainder is forgiven once you hit 120 qualifying payments.   M Mel Reader, Fort Collins, CO  I just looked at my list of loans; FFEL Consoliated, Direct Stafford Subsidized and Unsubsidized, FFEL Stafford Subs. and FFEL Stafford Unsubs., Are these not the eligible loan types for the Loan Forgiveness program? Trying to understand my “No Eligible Loan Type” rejection from the program. I have worked in public service for 10 years now.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Mel, none of the FFEL loans count. The program is only for Direct Loans.   F Frances Reader, Brooklyn, NY  I’m a freelancer and have been debating trying to work as much as possible for nonprofits. I’ve spoken to a Fed Loan rep about the public service forgiveness program, and they told me that freelancing hours can count toward it – that I’d need to clock in 30 hours a week min. to qualify. I work about this, or more each week as a freelancer for two nonprofits right now, but worried that any time I work less than the 30 hours, it disqualifies that month’s payment. Any knowledge about how freelancing fits into this equation? Thank you!!   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Frances, I’d be very, very careful here. The way you get certified is that your employer needs to fill out a form saying that you worked there (and it has to be eligible, of course). Would a month of freelance work (30+ hours a week, as you note) count, even if you weren’t an official employee? Rohit says it will be very hard to make this work.   S Stephanie Reader, Chico, CA  I have worked for CPS in CA for 12 years. I consolidated my student loans 5 years ago. I asked about the Student Loan Forgiveness, and was told by Navient that my loans don’t qualify. How can this be? I took all the loans out when I was at uni, and didn’t get any of them at a bank. I am now 3 years from retirement, and Navient says  basically………..too bad!
Do I have any options available? I have kept up to date on all payments.
Than You   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Stephanie from Chico, Direct Consolidation Loans are eligible for Public Service Loan Forgiveness. I’m not sure Navient would say that. You should file a complaint with the CFPB. If you have Direct Loans and made qualifying payments, your five years will count.   B Beth Reader, Honolulu, HI  I have navient loans. I am applying for public service loan forgiveness. I’ve been told these loans don’t qualify. Is that correct. They were formerly Sallie mae.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Beth, see my column from a week ago – you need the right kind of loan (direct) and the right kind of repayment plan (not the graduated ones) and the right kind of payment (income driven) and the right kind of employer. Panicked Borrowers, and the Education Department’s Unsettling Silence Teachers, doctors and others in the public service loan forgiveness program seek guidance on whether they are truly eligible to erase their student loan debt. The New York Times    M Mike Reader, Valdosta, GA  My wife works as a teacher in a low income school system.  Another teacher said she might be able to qualify for student loan forgiveness after 5 years into her tenure.  Any truth to that?     Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Mike, yes, believe it or not there is a different cancellation program for a different student loan that may affect teachers and others who have that loan (a Perkins loan). Here’s more on that .   T T. Reader, Hampton, VA  If my previous monthly payments on an extended graduated plan were more than what I am being quoted for a monthly payment on an IDR plan, can my previous payments qualify towards the 120 PSLF payments?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  T from Hampton, VA, don’t have good news for you. They won’t count.   J Josef Reader, Tucson, AZ  I have several federal loans and one private loan. I am a teacher but do not teach in a low-income school, so I have no hope of loan forgiveness. Do you believe I consolidate my current loans (SoFi) or continue paying on them as separate loans?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Josef, I think you’re getting confused about the terms of the Perkins loan forgiveness that I just mentioned up above. If you have the right kind of federal loans (direct one) and meet the other payment requirements, you should be able to qualify for public service student loan forgiveness if you’re teaching in a public school. (It won’t apply to that private loan though.)   A Arturo Reader, Cyprus, Florida  What broader trends should we be watching / concerned about in the student loan market based on the current administration’s statement with respect to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau? Has the outlook changed substantially since election day?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Arturo, maybe I’m too idealistic, but I’m skeptical that politicians will actually vote to gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. A move like that would be a big insult to every student loan borrower, military family, and consumer that the agency has helped. That said, we need to keep a close eye on the lobbyists who are salivating at the idea.   S Susan Reader, Washington, DC  I have several student loans with various interest rates.  What is the best way to consolidate them into just one payment with the lowest interest rate?  Thank You   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Susan, if you have federal loans, you cannot consolidate them into a new federal loan with a lower rate. A Direct Consolidation loan will give you the weighted-average of your interest rates. You can consider consolidating into a private loan , but be careful.   J Jenna Reader, Kalamazoo MI  I have been making income driven payments on my loans for about 8 years, all while working in a qualifying public service position. I didn’t realize until about 5 years ago that I needed to consolidate my loans into the appropriate funder (DOE FedLoan Serving) and had been paying Sallie Mae for those first 3 years. Is there any way I can get retrospective “credit” for those first 3 years? It breaks my heart that those payments don’t seem to count toward my 120.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Jenna, you actually don’t need to consolidate, you just need to have a Direct Loan. If you consolidated, the clock restarts.   J Jay Reader, Raleigh, NC  Would there be a way to pay off most of loan and get forgiveness for balance and if there is what percentage can you pay down? I may have limited funds available in future.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Jay, no, unfortunately the program doesn’t work that way.   G Gaurav Reader, Los Angeles, CA  How do I get approved for loan forgiveness if I am giving back to the local / regional communities, non-profits, startups since my graduation?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Gaurav, unfortunately, this is not about what you give but where you work full-time.   T Tom Reader, Macomb, MI  We’re the recent non-profits that were elgibke for PSLF and then had their status changed originally certified as 501c3 or were they categorized as different types of nonprofits?   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Tom, they were not 501c3s and therein lies the rub. In theory, any 501c3 should be safe. But in practice, the DOE has changed its mind and not explained itself beyond that. Could it change its mind about 501c3s too? Nobody wants to say “absolutely not.” But I’d personally feel safe if I was in the PSLF program and working for an ironclad 501c3.   M Matt Reader, Washington, DC  What’s the best way to dispute the servicer’s determination of the  number of qualifying payments you have made?  My servicer has provided a chart with the number of qualifying payments but does not provide any detailed information about how they arrived at their numbers.   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Matt from DC, I’m so glad you answered this. More and more, I’m hearing that borrowers disagree with FedLoan Servicing’s calculation of the number of qualifying payments. First, I recommend you ask them by send them a message when you’re logged into your account. If you don’t get satisfactory details, many consumers have been able to get a clear answer by filing a complaint with the CFPB. This is a great way to make sure your student loan company actually gives you the full truth.   A Alex Reader, Minneapolis, MN  Thanks for this helpful Q&A. Do income-based repayments before loans are converted to Direct/FedLoan serviced count toward the 120 qualifying payments? E.g. if payments were made after 2007 but before the loans were consolidated/moved to Direct/FedLoan   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Alex, probably not. Ask your servicer/s for a list of qualifying payments to date. Rohit just answered a question about how to dispute the number listed if you disagree.   S Sarah Reader, New York, NY  With all of this worry about PSLF, I looked at my approved employer certification letter again. (I received it 2 years ago - I’m currently about halfway to 120 payments, but taking a couple years off the 501c3 path while self-employed.) The letter certified my 501c3 employment but said that “0” payments under the employment certified in the letter counted, but that 62 (correct number) qualifying payments under “other approved employment” before the letter’s date qualified. This was my only qualifying employment and only cert letter so both numbers should have been 62. When I called at the time, they said not to worry, there was only a mistake in the letter, that 62 payments counted. My online Fedloan servicing account currently shows the correct payments, but once when I logged in a few months ago it had a wildly off-base number (now corrected). Should I ask for a new, correct certification letter? I really worry about mismanagement and that the servicer will try to wiggle out of things.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Sarah, you’re right to worry. Look at what CFPB had to say about one of the big servicers. So I’d say get it in writing, ask for corrected everything. Student Loan Collector Cheated Millions, Lawsuits Say Navient made serious mistakes at every step of the loan collection process, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said in a lawsuit. The New York Times    Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Tami from Hudson, that is very frustrating. So many of you are sharing your stories about Navient, and I don’t blame you for feeling angry. The best advice I can give is that your federal loans are eligible for income-driven repayment. This is a way to make sure your payments are affordable. If you feel you were mistreated, please file a complaint with the CFPB. It doesn’t take long and it helps law enforcement crack down on wrongdoing. Complaints to the CFPB helped lead to a $60 million fine that Navient had to pay for illegal conduct against military families. Complaints can help you solve your individual problem, but can also help others.   TL Tami Loeffler Reader, Hudson, NY  I am 42 years old. I received a Bachelors degree in 1997 and a Masters in 2002. I borrowed a total of $50,000, but I still owe $30,000. If I ever pay off the balance, I will have paid $80,000 to borrow $50,000. I have only ever worked at non-profit organizations, which is part of the reason my balance is so high all these years later. I did not know about the publuc service loan forgiveness program until last year. When I called Navient to ask if I was eligible, they told me that my type of loan did not qualify. So many things about my situation are distressing to me, 1-that I will have paid $80k to borrow $50k, 2- that I never about the public service loan program, 3- that I have spent more than half my life paying off student debt, and 4- that I can’t trust Navient at all, that they are profiting off of my hardship. I feel trapped, betrayed and angry. I would welcome any advice on what options might be available to me. Thank you for doing this.   C Cory Reader, Savannah, Georgia  Is there any relief for Parent Plus loans?  Under what circumstances can dad get some relief?   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  Cory, Parent PLUS loans don’t have all of the same repayment plans. So many parents are struggling, including those that co-signed private loans. Learn more here .   A Anonymous Reader, Lincoln, NE  I do not have a question - I just wanted to thank you both, Ron & Rohit. This is a fantastic idea.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  Anonymous, thanks for saying so! It’s a pleasure to be able to help.   Ron Lieber Your Money columnist  And with that, we are signing off. A big thanks to Rohit Chopra for coming in to help us (and you). Follow him on Twitter at Rohit Chopra for news and information about his work at the Consumer Federation of America. And to hear more about future chats and other stories in this and other areas of moneyworld, please sign up for our newsletter .   Rohit Chopra Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America  I want to thank all of you, especially Ron Lieber and the New York Times. It’s crystal clear that our student loan system is confusing and I wish student loan servicers – who earn big bucks in government contracts – would step up their game. Thanks to all of you for participating. If we didn’t get to your question, be sure to check out links to the tools and resources which should get you on the right path. Have a great holiday weekend.  Advertisement

I am the father of grad student who finished her Master’s Program in 2016. She is currently working as a psychological counselor for Partners Health Care in Boston. She took out loans (95% Federally subsidized, 5% Perkins) for her tuition and is currently enrolled in the PAYE program.

Partners informed her that since they are a non-profit organization (Mass. General with Brigham Women’s Hospital) with a 403b plan, they are able to grant her loan forgiveness if she works there for 10 years.

Do they fulfill the qualifications necessary to her not to worry about continuing to pay after her 10 years are up, assuming that she stays there? Also, you should mention that even though someone like her may be able to write off the balance, there are still tax raminfications. As far as I know, the IRS sees this type of loan forgiveness as earned income and will be taxed accordingly.

I look forward to your response.