Seattle Mariners selling out of toasted grasshoppers at concession stand
M's to limit sales of popular toasted grasshoppers
M's to limit sales of popular toasted grasshoppers MLB fan survey says ... baseball ISN'T boring and your team is awesome Vote: Who is the greatest Yankee in history after Babe Ruth? Hanley Ramirez channels Big Papi in win over Pirates Mighty Mites are taking over baseball! Can these surprising teams stay hot all season? The most loathed man in MLB? There's another side to Jeffrey Loria Don't tell Mets' Zack Wheeler that the 'win' doesn't matter Minor League Baseball program aims to increase diversity in front offices Power Rankings: One week in, Cubs still on top MLB's 2017 holiday uniforms Jaymee Sire, Kevin Negandhi and Sarina Morales debate whether or not they would sample the snack being offered at Mariners games. (0:40) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment ESPN.com's sports business reporter since 2012; previously at ESPN from 2000-06 Appears on SportsCenter, ESPN Radio, ESPN.com and with ABC News Formerly worked as analyst at CNBC Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment After surprisingly selling out of grasshoppers at a concession stand for the first three games of the season, the Seattle Mariners have called in an emergency order so that they last throughout this weekend. The team is also imposing a per-game order limit for the rest of the season. Mariners spokeswoman Rebecca Hale told ESPN that the team sold 901 orders of the insects over the first three home games. The grasshoppers are toasted in a chili lime salt and come in a four-ounce cup for $4. "We've sold roughly 18,000 grasshoppers," Hale said. "That's more than the restaurant [that runs the stand], Poquitos, sells in a year." Poquitos is one of the new concession stands at Safeco Field this season as a part of the Mariners' and concessionaire Centerplate's strategy to add more of a local flair. Hale said the grasshoppers, which are an appetizer sold at Poquitos, were added to the ballpark menu as a novelty, but the team didn't expect them to be that popular. That all changed when the item, known in Mexico as chapulines, received national attention. Starting with Friday night's game, the Mariners will limit sales to 312 orders per game in honor of the team's longtime great Edgar Martinez 's career batting average (.312), Hale said. Since the success of the grasshoppers, Centerplate has been getting calls from suppliers asking whether the Mariners are open to selling crickets and other popular insects that are considered edible. "We don't have plans to expand that portion of the menu," Hale said. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Jaymee Sire, Kevin Negandhi and Sarina Morales debate whether or not they would sample the snack being offered at Mariners games. (0:40)

After surprisingly selling out of grasshoppers at a concession stand for the first three games of the season, the Seattle Mariners have called in an emergency order so that they last throughout this weekend. The team is also imposing a per-game order limit for the rest of the season.

Mariners spokeswoman Rebecca Hale told ESPN that the team sold 901 orders of the insects over the first three home games. The grasshoppers are toasted in a chili lime salt and come in a four-ounce cup for $4.

"We've sold roughly 18,000 grasshoppers," Hale said. "That's more than the restaurant [that runs the stand], Poquitos, sells in a year."

Poquitos is one of the new concession stands at Safeco Field this season as a part of the Mariners' and concessionaire Centerplate's strategy to add more of a local flair.

The Mariners sold 901 orders of grasshoppers toasted in a chili lime salt during the first three home games at Safeco Field. Centerplate

Hale said the grasshoppers, which are an appetizer sold at Poquitos, were added to the ballpark menu as a novelty, but the team didn't expect them to be that popular.

That all changed when the item, known in Mexico as chapulines, received national attention.

Starting with Friday night's game, the Mariners will limit sales to 312 orders per game in honor of the team's longtime great Edgar Martinez's career batting average (.312), Hale said.

Since the success of the grasshoppers, Centerplate has been getting calls from suppliers asking whether the Mariners are open to selling crickets and other popular insects that are considered edible.

"We don't have plans to expand that portion of the menu," Hale said.