The Top 5 Bollywood Films You Can't Miss This Summer
The Top 5 Bollywood Films You Can't Miss This Summer
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Suparna Dutt D'Cunha       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Arka Media Works Baahubali 2: The Conclusion stars Prabhas and Rana Daggubatti among many others. There will be over 15 Bollywood movies on the radar this summer, from April until July. Nobody has time to see all of these cinematic adventures -- and potentially waste three hours of their life. I sorted through the list -- from blockbusters and action adventures to rom-coms and family flicks -- to find five movies you can’t miss this summer. For a sheer movie theater spectacle you just can’t beat this one. An engaging romance-adventure, exceeded all expectations, grossing $90 million worldwide in 2015. The sequel is bound to break all box office records as well. This south Indian film will be released in Hindi and a host of other Indian languages, and moviegoers should prepare for some proper fireworks. For one thing, the 20-minute climactic sequence cost $4 million alone! But most importantly, the sequel will answer the question asked in the first movie: Why did Kattappa (played by Satyaraj) kill the emperor Baahubali (Prabhas)? Combining technical prowess with a unique storytelling flair, hitmaker writer-director S.S. Rajamouli is sure to take the sequel up a notch. Told in a series of flashbacks, sees Prabhas, Rana Daggubati, Anuskha Shetty, Tamannaah and Satyaraj reprising their roles. You aren’t allowed to skip this one. Your attendance is mandatory. Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan. (Photo courtesy AFP/Getty) ( This movie has already become a talking point. The slice-of-life, light-hearted comedy, directed by Saket Chaudhary and starring Irrfan Khan and Saba Qamar, will be regarded as one the most inventive in contemporary filmmaking. Taking a dig at India’s educational institutes and the bizarre bureaucracy one experiences to get their child the best available education in an English school in India, it's a story more unique than anything else in recent cinema. And what we expect is a terrifically charming film that manages to be a family tale and a gentle poke at India’s education system. Khan’s incredibly nuanced performance is also sure to catch the eye. Can a small-scale, witty film stand toe-to-toe with epic action-adventures? Yes, of course. There’s nothing we love more than an underdog. ( He can sell a million tickets with the flash of a smile and the flex of a bicep. As happens each Eid, Salman Khan returns with to make the most of the festive season rush. And when you’ve got Khan teaming up with director Kabir Khan, you know it’s worth the wait. Khan, who plays the role of a soldier, will be seen romancing Chinese actress Zhu Zhu, who starred in , which had Russell Crowe in the lead role. Based on the 1962 Sino-Indian War, the historical war drama features Shatrughan Sinha, Om Puri and Shah Rukh Khan in a cameo. With Bollywood gaining popularity in China in recent years, has the potential to be an ideal crossover film, and is expected to be memorable beyond the sheer adrenaline of its flamboyant visuals. No 2017 film seems to be promising more bang for your buck than this one. Bollywood actors Shah Rukh Khan and Salman Khan. (Photo courtesy AFP/Getty) Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Arka Media Works

There will be over 15 Bollywood movies on the radar this summer, from April until July. Nobody has time to see all of these cinematic adventures -- and potentially waste three hours of their life. To spare you the trouble, I sorted through the list -- from blockbusters and action adventures to rom-coms and family flicks -- to find five movies you can’t miss this summer.

Baahubali 2: The Conclusion (Release date: April 28)

For a sheer movie theater spectacle you just can’t beat this one. An engaging romance-adventure, Baahubali: The Beginning exceeded all expectations, grossing $90 million worldwide in 2015. The sequel is bound to break all box office records as well. This south Indian film will be released in Hindi and a host of other Indian languages, and moviegoers should prepare for some proper fireworks. For one thing, the 20-minute climactic sequence cost $4 million alone! But most importantly, the sequel will answer the question asked in the first movie: Why did Kattappa (played by Satyaraj) kill the emperor Baahubali (Prabhas)? Combining technical prowess with a unique storytelling flair, hitmaker writer-director S.S. Rajamouli is sure to take the sequel up a notch. Told in a series of flashbacks, Baahubali 2 sees Prabhas, Rana Daggubati, Anuskha Shetty, Tamannaah and Satyaraj reprising their roles. You aren’t allowed to skip this one. Your attendance is mandatory.

Hindi Medium (Release date: May 12)

This movie has already become a talking point. The slice-of-life, light-hearted comedy, directed by Saket Chaudhary and starring Irrfan Khan and Saba Qamar, will be regarded as one the most inventive in contemporary filmmaking. Taking a dig at India’s educational institutes and the bizarre bureaucracy one experiences to get their child the best available education in an English school in India, it's a story more unique than anything else in recent cinema. And what we expect is a terrifically charming film that manages to be a family tale and a gentle poke at India’s education system. Khan’s incredibly nuanced performance is also sure to catch the eye. Can a small-scale, witty film stand toe-to-toe with epic action-adventures? Yes, of course. There’s nothing we love more than an underdog.

Tubelight ( Release date: June 23)

He can sell a million tickets with the flash of a smile and the flex of a bicep. As happens each Eid, Salman Khan returns with Tubelight to make the most of the festive season rush. And when you’ve got Khan teaming up with director Kabir Khan, you know it’s worth the wait. Khan, who plays the role of a soldier, will be seen romancing Chinese actress Zhu Zhu, who starred in The Man with the Iron Fists, which had Russell Crowe in the lead role. Based on the 1962 Sino-Indian War, the historical war drama features Shatrughan Sinha, Om Puri and Shah Rukh Khan in a cameo. With Bollywood gaining popularity in China in recent years, Tubelight has the potential to be an ideal crossover film, and is expected to be memorable beyond the sheer adrenaline of its flamboyant visuals. No 2017 film seems to be promising more bang for your buck than this one.