People Are Photoshopping the Hell Out of the New 'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' Poster
People Are Photoshopping the Hell Out of the New 'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' Poster
The universe was very kind Friday, giving everyone a great new Kendrick Lamar album before hitting us with a new  teaser just hours later. Shortly before the new teaser for Rian Johnson's follow-up to premiered at the Star Wars Celebration event in Orlando, Disney shared a new poster featuring a lot of red and a well-placed lightsaber: Teaser Poster for The Last Jedi. #swco  https://t.co/72o7hgZNgo  pic.twitter.com/ZG4jIJORQ0 Slowly but surely, as first noticed , fans (and people who just like to Photoshop things for fun) started Photoshop​ping the hell out of the poster: The Last Jedi poster has been revealed... pic.twitter.com/DRItHKnn0D After seeing the poster, The Last Jedi looks amazing pic.twitter.com/49eOPfsj8G pic.twitter.com/OE1P3VyshR fixed it! pic.twitter.com/iOvNjCapYP This poster is unbelievable pic.twitter.com/CyJBDQbQYs There I fixed it. #TheLastJedi  pic.twitter.com/9bl9JuphRh @starwars Fixed it. #TheLastJedi  pic.twitter.com/t5tCoHUBoe Some fans have expressed disapproval of the poster's design. Trusting graphic designers, however, is something we all should do more of: To those crying about the lack of symmetry in #TheLastJedi poster. I just mocked this up. It looks awful. Trust the graphic designers. pic.twitter.com/cxKoUDBOgG But until someone answer the following request, this Photoshop​ marathon won’t be ending anytime soon: Can someone photoshop Kendrick and Drake into that The Last Jedi poster? I'll love you forever The poster is particularly notable due to its predominantly red coloring, as red is generally used to signify the dark side of the Force. The only blue on the poster, fittingly, is emanating from Rey (Daisy Ridley)'s lightsaber. The design itself is reminiscent of a previous poster for the original 1977 film : star wars: a new hope (1977) star wars: the last jedi (2017) pic.twitter.com/qORWv3tyKV Coincidence? I doubt it.

The universe was very kind Friday, giving everyone a great new Kendrick Lamar album before hitting us with a new Star Wars: The Last Jedi teaser just hours later. Shortly before the new teaser for Rian Johnson's follow-up to The Force Awakens premiered at the Star Wars Celebration event in Orlando, Disney shared a new poster featuring a lot of red and a well-placed lightsaber:

Slowly but surely, as Mashable first noticed, fans (and people who just like to Photoshop things for fun) started Photoshop​ping the hell out of the poster:

The Last Jedi poster has been revealed... pic.twitter.com/DRItHKnn0D — Dodge, Donald J (@DJ_Dodge) April 14, 2017

After seeing the poster, The Last Jedi looks amazing pic.twitter.com/49eOPfsj8G — pat tobin (@tastefactory) April 14, 2017

This poster is unbelievable pic.twitter.com/CyJBDQbQYs — NHL insider Big Boy (@trillballins) April 14, 2017

Some fans have expressed disapproval of the poster's design. Trusting graphic designers, however, is something we all should do more of:

To those crying about the lack of symmetry in #TheLastJedi poster. I just mocked this up. It looks awful. Trust the graphic designers. pic.twitter.com/cxKoUDBOgG — James Bailey (@BamesJailey) April 14, 2017

But until someone answer the following request, this Photoshop​ marathon won’t be ending anytime soon:

Can someone photoshop Kendrick and Drake into that The Last Jedi poster? I'll love you forever — Kwame Opam (@kwameopam) April 14, 2017

The Last Jedi poster is particularly notable due to its predominantly red coloring, as red is generally used to signify the dark side of the Force. The only blue on the poster, fittingly, is emanating from Rey (Daisy Ridley)'s lightsaber. The design itself is reminiscent of a previous Star Wars poster for the original 1977 film A New Hope:

star wars: a new hope (1977)

star wars: the last jedi (2017) pic.twitter.com/qORWv3tyKV — pau the last jedi (@loganshowletts) April 14, 2017

Coincidence? I doubt it.