Financial Spring Cleaning: What To Keep & What To Toss After Tax Day
Financial Spring Cleaning: What To Keep & What To Toss After Tax Day
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kelly Phillips Erb       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock When it comes to taxes, many taxpayers are hesitant to throw away even the tiniest scrap of paper. It's true that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) wants you to hang onto your important tax records. But that doesn't mean that you have to keep your tax records forever. The general rule is that you should Supporting documentations for your tax returns includes not only your forms W-2 and 1099 but also bills, credit card and other receipts, invoices, mileage logs, canceled, imaged or substitute checks, proofs of payment, and any other records to support deductions or credits you claim on your return. When it comes to figuring out the statute of limitations, here's what you need to know: If you file a correct and timely tax return, the statute of limitations is generally three years after the date of filing or the due date of your tax return, whichever is later (*but see the note below). Remember that you file your tax return after the tax year ends: for example, the statute of limitations for a timely filed 2016 tax return begins to run on April 18, 2017. Keep those records until at least April 18, 2020. If you don’t properly report all of your income (generally, if you omit more than 25% of the gross income shown on your return), the statute of limitations will be extended: you’ll want to keep those records for at least six years after the filing date. You may also want to get a better tax professional . If you file a clearly fraudulent return or if you don’t file a return at all, the statute of limitations never runs. That means that there is no time limit on IRS action: they can audit you at any time. In that event, you'll want to hold onto your records forever. And in that case, you absolutely want to get a better tax professional and possibly a criminal defense attorney. If you have a foreign asset, and the amount of income from that asset exceeds $5,000, the statute of limitations is extended to six years. If you file an amended return , the statute of limitations for your original tax return applies. Filing an amended return does not extend the statute of limitations. Occasionally, you'll have documentation to support transactions that will be reported on future tax returns. Records that may need special attention include: Consider retaining your IRA records - including Roth contributions - until you withdraw all of the money from your account. If you buy capital assets like stocks, bonds, or real estate, you'll want to keep records which support basis (typically your purchase price plus any adjustments) for as long as you own the property plus three years. If you claim depreciation, amortization, or depletion deductions for certain assets including land or real estate, you’ll want to keep related records for as long as you own the underlying property plus three years. If you claim special tax deductions and tax credits, you may need to keep your records longer than normal (for example, if you file a claim for a loss from worthless securities or bad debt deduction , you should keep those records for seven years). If you claim any other special tax benefits, a good rule of thumb is to keep your records for as long as the tax benefit runs plus three years. To save space (and quite possibly, your sanity), you can scan your records and store them electronically. The IRS has accepted scanned receipts since 1997, a policy that was memorialized by Rev. Proc. 97–22 (downloads as a pdf). Your scanned or electronic receipts must be as accurate as your paper records and you must be able to index, store, preserve, retrieve, and reproduce the records if asked. In other words, you need to have your records organized and be able to produce them in a hard copy form if needed. Wondering what you can safely toss? Consider: Duplicates of receipts. Records that are unrelated to deductions and credits not claimed. One of the biggest offenders? Medical receipts when you don't actually claim the medical expenses deduction. Ditto for charitable gifts when you don't claim the deduction. You don't need to keep those receipts for tax purposes. Old tax returns. Some tax professionals recommend that you never throw out your old tax returns - even when the statute of limitations has already run - as proof that you've filed. I don't think that's necessary. I started working at age 14. I don't want to die with a filing cabinet filled with 50+ years of tax returns so I toss mine after the statute runs. Find your own level of comfort. Paycheck stubs. At the beginning of each new year, check your paycheck stubs against your prior year-end statements, including your form W-2 and your annual Social Security statement. Make sure that they properly reflect your income, pre-tax deductions, employee benefits, and the like. Once you've confirmed that they're correct, you don't need to save the stubs. Old tax-related records. If the statute of limitations has run, you can generally destroy tax-related records (though keep in mind there may be other non-tax related reasons for holding onto some records, such a paid-off mortgage statement). When you're ready to toss your old records, have a shredder handy. Don't simply throw them into the recycling bin or trash can: your records have personally identifying information, as well as details about your finances, that you want to keep private and away from potential identity thieves. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

When it comes to taxes, many taxpayers are hesitant to throw away even the tiniest scrap of paper. It's true that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) wants you to hang onto your important tax records. But that doesn't mean that you have to keep your tax records forever. The general rule is that you should hold onto your tax returns and supporting documentation until the statute of limitations runs for filing your tax returns or filing for your tax refund.

Supporting documentations for your tax returns includes not only your forms W-2 and 1099 but also bills, credit card and other receipts, invoices, mileage logs, canceled, imaged or substitute checks, proofs of payment, and any other records to support deductions or credits you claim on your return.

When it comes to figuring out the statute of limitations, here's what you need to know:

If you file a correct and timely tax return, the statute of limitations is generally three years after the date of filing or the due date of your tax return, whichever is later (*but see the note below). Remember that you file your tax return after the tax year ends: for example, the statute of limitations for a timely filed 2016 tax return begins to run on April 18, 2017. Keep those records until at least April 18, 2020.

If you don’t properly report all of your income (generally, if you omit more than 25% of the gross income shown on your return), the statute of limitations will be extended: you’ll want to keep those records for at least six years after the filing date. You may also want to get a better tax professional.

If you file a clearly fraudulent return or if you don’t file a return at all, the statute of limitations never runs. That means that there is no time limit on IRS action: they can audit you at any time. In that event, you'll want to hold onto your records forever. And in that case, you absolutely want to get a better tax professional and possibly a criminal defense attorney.

If you commit a tax crime, the statute of limitations is six years from the date of the commission of the crime.

If you have a foreign asset, and the amount of income from that asset exceeds $5,000, the statute of limitations is extended to six years.

If you file an amended return, the statute of limitations for your original tax return applies. Filing an amended return does not extend the statute of limitations.

(*It's worth noting that there have been instances of late where the IRS has aggressively pursued a six-year statute of limitations. As a result, some tax professionals advise their clients to always assume a six-year statute of limitations.)

Occasionally, you'll have documentation to support transactions that will be reported on future tax returns. Records that may need special attention include:

Consider retaining your IRA records - including Roth contributions - until you withdraw all of the money from your account.

If you buy capital assets like stocks, bonds, or real estate, you'll want to keep records which support basis (typically your purchase price plus any adjustments) for as long as you own the property plus three years.

If you claim depreciation, amortization, or depletion deductions for certain assets including land or real estate, you’ll want to keep related records for as long as you own the underlying property plus three years.

If you claim special tax deductions and tax credits, you may need to keep your records longer than normal (for example, if you file a claim for a loss from worthless securities or bad debt deduction, you should keep those records for seven years).

If you claim any other special tax benefits, a good rule of thumb is to keep your records for as long as the tax benefit runs plus three years.

To save space (and quite possibly, your sanity), you can scan your records and store them electronically. The IRS has accepted scanned receipts since 1997, a policy that was memorialized by Rev. Proc. 97–22 (downloads as a pdf). Your scanned or electronic receipts must be as accurate as your paper records and you must be able to index, store, preserve, retrieve, and reproduce the records if asked. In other words, you need to have your records organized and be able to produce them in a hard copy form if needed.

Wondering what you can safely toss? Consider:

Duplicates of receipts.

Records that are unrelated to deductions and credits not claimed. One of the biggest offenders? Medical receipts when you don't actually claim the medical expenses deduction. Ditto for charitable gifts when you don't claim the deduction. You don't need to keep those receipts for tax purposes.

Old tax returns. Some tax professionals recommend that you never throw out your old tax returns - even when the statute of limitations has already run - as proof that you've filed. I don't think that's necessary. I started working at age 14. I don't want to die with a filing cabinet filled with 50+ years of tax returns so I toss mine after the statute runs. Find your own level of comfort.

Paycheck stubs. At the beginning of each new year, check your paycheck stubs against your prior year-end statements, including your form W-2 and your annual Social Security statement. Make sure that they properly reflect your income, pre-tax deductions, employee benefits, and the like. Once you've confirmed that they're correct, you don't need to save the stubs.

Old tax-related records. If the statute of limitations has run, you can generally destroy tax-related records (though keep in mind there may be other non-tax related reasons for holding onto some records, such a paid-off mortgage statement).

When you're ready to toss your old records, have a shredder handy. Don't simply throw them into the recycling bin or trash can: your records have personally identifying information, as well as details about your finances, that you want to keep private and away from potential identity thieves.

Want more taxgirl goodness? Pick your poison: follow me on twitter, hang out on Facebook and Google, play on Pinterest or check out my YouTube channel.