Thief robs an elderly woman at knifepoint in a Moscow lift
Thief robs elderly woman at knifepoint in a lift


A man robbed a woman at knifepoint in a lift before patting her on the back and sending her on her way.

Disturbing CCTV footage shows the woman getting into the lift in a block of flats in Moscow, closely followed by the man in a black leather jacket.

She appears to ask him which floor he needs, before pressing a button for the lift doors to close.

The man follows the woman into the lift, and the two speak before she pushes the button and the doors close

He quickly pulls out a knife and holds it to her, asking her for money, which she calmly hands over

He then pulls out a knife and holds it to her, as she rummages in her bags.

She does not put up any resistance, calmly taking out the purse and handing over the cash.

In strange scenes, the man then appears to continue a conversation with her and pat her on the shoulder as she leaves the lift.

The man then presses the bottom floor button again and travels back down, counting his stolen haul of 3,000 RUB (£42).

Based on the CCTV images, police managed to track down the culprit, a 38-year-old man whose name has not been disclosed. He was reportedly visiting the Russian capital for a short period.

She has been praised for managing to stay calm when faced with a potentially terrifying situation, which ended strangely

The man patted her on the shoulder when she handed over the cash and left the lift. A 38-year-old was found by police in connection with the incident

It is not known if the woman got her money back.

Social media users have expressed both outrage at the robbing of an old woman and surprise at her calmness.

One user wrote: 'Unbelievable how this guy acts. How dare he rob a woman who barely has any income to survive.'

Another said: 'This woman is unbelievable. She stayed so calm, I wonder if she even told her family about the incident. Poor thing, I hope this stressful moment did not affect her health.'