Pregnant policewoman involved in crash gave birth in coma
Pregnant policewoman involved in crash gave birth in coma


A police officer who nearly died in an horrific car crash and gave birth while in a coma, has woken up 'thanks to her newborn son'.

Amelia Banna was five months pregnant when she had a serious traffic accident when the car being driven by her husband Cristian Espindola veered off the road in Posadas north east Argentina

The other four officers who were in the car were not injured, but Bannan suffered a skull fracture that caused a blood clot in her head.

Policewoman Amelia Banna who was five months pregnant when she had a serious traffic accident in Argentina and gave birth while in a coma has woken up 'thanks to her newborn son'

She was hospitalised in a coma and on Christmas Eve gave birth to a baby that was named Santino.

The baby was being cared for by his aunt Norma while relatives regularly visited her regularly with the newborn, talking with her and giving her time with the baby.

Three months after the tragic accident, Amelia awoke from her coma and is able to answer 'yes' and 'no' questions.

Amelia was hospitalised in a coma and on Christmas Eve gave birth to a baby that was named Santino. The baby was being cared for by his aunt Norma while relatives regularly visited her regularly with the newborn, talking with her and giving her time with the baby

Three months after the tragic accident, Amelia awoke from her coma and is able to answer 'yes' and 'no' questions giving the family hope that mother and baby will soon be together

Cesar Bannan, her brother, said: 'Doctors told us that this is a miracle from God', adding: 'She has spoken, her first words after asking her something were 'yes, no'.'

Footage shared by her brother on social media shows the new mum with her baby in her arms and is seen she moving her hands in order to hug the baby. The brother can be heard saying: 'Very good, Amelia, grab him well.'

Doctors said that this is an unusual case, but this development has led them to hope that she will make a full recovery.