Man Who Sent Manifesto to Donald Trump Is Captured After Manhunt
Man Who Sent Manifesto to Donald Trump Is Captured After Manhunt
A man suspected of stealing firearms, threatening churches, setting his vehicle on fire and writing a 161-page antigovernment manifesto to President Trump has been captured in Wisconsin after a 10-day manhunt. The sheriff’s office of Rock County, Wis., said that Joseph A. Jakubowski, 32, was arrested early Friday morning. Sheriff Robert Spoden of Rock County said Mr. Jakubowski had been camping near the border separating Vernon and Richland Counties. “He appeared to be very disheveled and dirty and obviously had been outdoors for some time,” Sheriff Spoden said in a phone interview, adding that no one was hurt during the arrest. Advertisement Mr. Jakubowski is suspected of robbing a gun shop in Janesville, Wis., on April 4. A video recorded by Mr. Jakubowski and released by the police shows him preparing to mail a manifesto to the White House. In the video, he calls for revolution, saying, “It’s time for change.” According to the police, Mr. Jakubowski’s document “includes grievances against government and personal angst towards anyone or anything other than natural law or rule.” Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy The police found Mr. Jakubowski after receiving reports of a suspicious person on a farmer’s property on Thursday night. A news release from the Rock County sheriff’s office said that around 6 a.m. on Friday, “tactical officers made contact with the suspicious person at the campsite. The subject was taken into custody without incident and positively identified.” At a news conference on Friday afternoon, R. Justin Tolomeo, who leads the F.B.I.’s Milwaukee Division, said Mr. Jakubowski was found with four handguns, one long gun, multiple boxes of ammunition, some containers of flammable liquid, a sword, a helmet, a ballistic vest and a copy of his own manifesto. Mr. Tolomeo acknowledged that this did not account for all of the weapons reported missing from the Janesville gun shop that Mr. Jakubowski is accused of robbing, which totaled 18 firearms, including an M-16 rifle, and two gun silencers, according to court documents. The authorities continued to search for the remaining weapons. After being held briefly in Vernon County, Mr. Jakubowski was sent to Madison, Wis., for a court appearance on Friday afternoon, Sheriff Spoden said. Mr. Jakubowski faces state charges of burglary and arming himself with a dangerous weapon, felony theft, and possession of burglary tools. “There are currently federal firearms charges, which the A.T.F. are pursing,” Mr. Tolomeo said, referring to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. He added that additional federal charges may be forthcoming “as the investigation unfolds.” Mr. Jakubowski had also been suspected of writing letters threatening violence against churches on Easter Sunday around Sussex, Wis., in the eastern part of the state. But Lt. Philip Carini of the Waukesha County sheriff’s office said the letters’ origins had not been not verified, and Mr. Tolomeo said at the news conference that the letters were “likely not” sent by Mr. Jakubowski. The search for Mr. Jakubowski involved 18 local agencies, two state agencies and six federal agencies. Advertisement “We could not have asked for this matter to end better,” said David Moore, chief of the Janesville Police Department. “No one was hurt, no officers were harmed, and Mr. Jakubowski was taken into custody without any injuries.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

A man suspected of stealing firearms, threatening churches, setting his vehicle on fire and writing a 161-page antigovernment manifesto to President Trump has been captured in Wisconsin after a 10-day manhunt.

The sheriff’s office of Rock County, Wis., said that Joseph A. Jakubowski, 32, was arrested early Friday morning.

Sheriff Robert Spoden of Rock County said Mr. Jakubowski had been camping near the border separating Vernon and Richland Counties.

“He appeared to be very disheveled and dirty and obviously had been outdoors for some time,” Sheriff Spoden said in a phone interview, adding that no one was hurt during the arrest.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Jakubowski is suspected of robbing a gun shop in Janesville, Wis., on April 4. A video recorded by Mr. Jakubowski and released by the police shows him preparing to mail a manifesto to the White House. In the video, he calls for revolution, saying, “It’s time for change.”

According to the police, Mr. Jakubowski’s document “includes grievances against government and personal angst towards anyone or anything other than natural law or rule.”

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The police found Mr. Jakubowski after receiving reports of a suspicious person on a farmer’s property on Thursday night. A news release from the Rock County sheriff’s office said that around 6 a.m. on Friday, “tactical officers made contact with the suspicious person at the campsite. The subject was taken into custody without incident and positively identified.”

At a news conference on Friday afternoon, R. Justin Tolomeo, who leads the F.B.I.’s Milwaukee Division, said Mr. Jakubowski was found with four handguns, one long gun, multiple boxes of ammunition, some containers of flammable liquid, a sword, a helmet, a ballistic vest and a copy of his own manifesto.

Mr. Tolomeo acknowledged that this did not account for all of the weapons reported missing from the Janesville gun shop that Mr. Jakubowski is accused of robbing, which totaled 18 firearms, including an M-16 rifle, and two gun silencers, according to court documents. The authorities continued to search for the remaining weapons.

After being held briefly in Vernon County, Mr. Jakubowski was sent to Madison, Wis., for a court appearance on Friday afternoon, Sheriff Spoden said.

Mr. Jakubowski faces state charges of burglary and arming himself with a dangerous weapon, felony theft, and possession of burglary tools. “There are currently federal firearms charges, which the A.T.F. are pursing,” Mr. Tolomeo said, referring to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. He added that additional federal charges may be forthcoming “as the investigation unfolds.”

Mr. Jakubowski had also been suspected of writing letters threatening violence against churches on Easter Sunday around Sussex, Wis., in the eastern part of the state. But Lt. Philip Carini of the Waukesha County sheriff’s office said the letters’ origins had not been not verified, and Mr. Tolomeo said at the news conference that the letters were “likely not” sent by Mr. Jakubowski.

The search for Mr. Jakubowski involved 18 local agencies, two state agencies and six federal agencies.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“We could not have asked for this matter to end better,” said David Moore, chief of the Janesville Police Department. “No one was hurt, no officers were harmed, and Mr. Jakubowski was taken into custody without any injuries.”