Muslim woman refused on Rome airport flight wearing hijab
Muslim films staff REFUSING to allow her on flight wearing hijab


A Muslim woman claims airport staff told her she would have to take off her hijab if she wanted to get on a flight to London.

Aghnia Adzkia was passing through security when she was asked to take off her religious headscarf.

Ms Adzkia claims to have been discriminated against and says she saw nuns passing through security without being asked to remove their habits.

The Indonesian citizen who lives in London made a video of her experience at Ciampino Airport in the Italian capital of Rome on Sunday.

In the clip the Goldsmith's University student can be seen repeatedly demanding to see the law stating that the hijab must be removed at an airport security check.

But the officers were adamant that they would not let her pass unless she followed their rules.

The female security official can be heard saying: 'You could hide something in your hair. If you don't take it off, we do not know if there's something inside, okay? You are not safe for us.'

She alleges that a female security staff member asked her to follow her to a private room so she could check the hijab.

But Ms Adzkia refused to take off her hijab claiming she was being unfairly targeted.

She claims a male security officer then dragged her out of the security area in an 'indecent way' grabbing her bag and shouting at her to be quiet.

Aghnia Adzkia (pictured) was passing through security when she was asked to take off her religious headscarf

Ms Adzkia claims to have been discriminated against and says she saw nuns passing through security without being asked to remove their habits at Ciampino Airport (pictured)

Ms Adzkia posted a furious social media post about the experience, which she says took place as she was traveling to London.

She wrote: 'I wasn't prepared to trust them unless they could cite me a law or provide me with a legal document that saying they were authorised to have to check what is underneath of my hijab.

'It is a matter of human dignity and rights. For what reason were they asked me to take off my hijab?'

She added: 'I AM A MUSLIM HIJABI, NOT A TERRORIST!

'The way they treated me has shown that they do not respect a Muslim female wearing the hijab.'

Ms Adzkia posted a furious social media post about the experience, which she says took place as she was traveling to London

Later the same evening, Ms Adzkia booked a ticket to fly to London from Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport, also in Rome.

Security staff again asked her to remove her hijab, this time she agreed and was able to get her flight.

Ms Adzkia wrote: 'I wanted to prove to them that I have nothing to hide and that I am not a terrorist.

'In the meantime, I saw two nuns wearing headscarves, but they weren't asked to take them off.

'Is this what you call fair treatment and respect? Where are my human rights?'

A social media post by Ms Adzkia has received 20,000 views and more than 100 comments after being shared more than 400 times

A social media post by Ms Adzkia has received 20,000 views and more than 100 comments after being shared more than 400 times.

But an official at the Indonesian Embassy argued that, when in Rome, Aghnia should have complied with the security officers' wishes.

Aisyah Allamanda, an official based in Rome, said: 'The numerous times I've flown out of Rome's airport, I also experienced the same kind of security check as I also happen to wear a hijab.

'The same applies to others who wear the hijab at Rome KBRI, female Muslims believe that they can't take off their headscarves in public so they are provided a private room for a female officer to carry out the check.

'If we refuse, I can understand if the security officer acts aggressively towards us.'

Speaking to MailOnline, Ms Adzkia said: 'I completely understand about what is going in the world lately. I stand against terrorism and that's not Islam.

'Yet, what I've experienced in Rome was shocking, the way they treated me indecently has shown discrimination. I understand if it is for security reason, but why did they not give me a second to read the law?'

A spokesman for the Rome airport has been contacted for comment.