No answer for Sidney Crosby
Jackets have no answer for Pens stars
Jackets have no answer for Pens stars Mr. Game 7 is key to the Capitals' fortunes 2017 Stanley Cup playoffs coverage Rinne, top line the reasons for Preds' upset Captain Serious isn't playing around Those million-dollar athletes? They do care about the Olympics See this season's gnarliest scars -- and hear the stories behind them Stanley Cup playoffs cheat sheet Sidney Crosby records a goal and two assists in Pittsburgh's 4-1 victory over Columbus to take a 2-0 series lead. (1:05) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Senior NHL writer for ESPN The Magazine Wrote for Atlanta Journal-Constitution Wrote for The Sporting News Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment PITTSBURGH -- Some coaches call them bump shifts. They are the shifts right after an opposing goal is scored that are so crucial to try to reclaim momentum. Give the team a bump. In crucial moments, nobody is better than Pittsburgh Penguins captain Sidney Crosby . You saw it on display in a big way during the Penguins' 4-1 win over the Columbus Blue Jackets in Game 2 on Friday, just 51 seconds after Columbus' Brandon Saad scored to pull the Blue Jackets even in the second period. Less than a minute later, Crosby was streaking down the ice on a 2-on-1 with Jake Guentzel feeding him at just the right time for a one-timer that beat Sergei Bobrovsky . The assist followed a first-period goal from Crosby as he took his turn in the rotation of Penguins stars stepping up with big games against the Blue Jackets. Phil Kessel did it in Game 1. Crosby did it for most of Game 2, and Evgeni Malkin got in on the act with his 49th career playoff goal. And that has been the difference so far between these two teams. The Penguins have been opportunistic. The Blue Jackets have not. Their offensive players, for the most part, haven't cashed in on their opportunities. The Penguins are up 2-0 in this series, outscoring the Blue Jackets 7-2, but the Blue Jackets have outplayed the Penguins for stretches. They've imposed physical play and a strong forecheck at times -- just not consistently enough. On some level, it has to be frustrating. The Blue Jackets do everything well, they're grinding out shifts, hitting the Penguins, maxing out effort -- then the Penguins get one opening and score. Their stars rise up. The Blue Jackets' biggest star, Bobrovsky, hasn't been able to match it. It's what happens when you have world-class talent, when you have three of the best pure offensive players in the game in Crosby, Malkin and Kessel. They're taking turns so far in this series and the Blue Jackets haven't had an answer for it. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

PITTSBURGH -- Some coaches call them bump shifts. They are the shifts right after an opposing goal is scored that are so crucial to try to reclaim momentum. Give the team a bump.

In crucial moments, nobody is better than Pittsburgh Penguins captain Sidney Crosby. You saw it on display in a big way during the Penguins' 4-1 win over the Columbus Blue Jackets in Game 2 on Friday, just 51 seconds after Columbus' Brandon Saad scored to pull the Blue Jackets even in the second period.

Sidney Crosby dominated Game 2. Gregory Shamus/Getty Images

Less than a minute later, Crosby was streaking down the ice on a 2-on-1 with Jake Guentzel feeding him at just the right time for a one-timer that beat Sergei Bobrovsky.

The assist followed a first-period goal from Crosby as he took his turn in the rotation of Penguins stars stepping up with big games against the Blue Jackets. Phil Kessel did it in Game 1. Crosby did it for most of Game 2, and Evgeni Malkin got in on the act with his 49th career playoff goal.

Editor's Picks Fleury still a world-class goalie, teammate Despite losing his starting job and enduring speculation that he would be traded, veteran Marc-Andre Fleury continues to mentor his successor and save the day whenever the Penguins need him.

Crosby chasing the impossible Repeating as champions in the NHL is crazy difficult. But with the way Pittsburgh Penguins captain Sidney Crosby has been playing the past two years, don't count out his getting it done.

2017 Stanley Cup playoffs coverage Visit the 2017 Stanley Cup playoffs page to get dates, game schedules, team matchups and featured news all the way into the finals on ESPN. 2 Related

And that has been the difference so far between these two teams. The Penguins have been opportunistic. The Blue Jackets have not. Their offensive players, for the most part, haven't cashed in on their opportunities.

The Penguins are up 2-0 in this series, outscoring the Blue Jackets 7-2, but the Blue Jackets have outplayed the Penguins for stretches. They've imposed physical play and a strong forecheck at times -- just not consistently enough.

On some level, it has to be frustrating. The Blue Jackets do everything well, they're grinding out shifts, hitting the Penguins, maxing out effort -- then the Penguins get one opening and score. Their stars rise up. The Blue Jackets' biggest star, Bobrovsky, hasn't been able to match it.

It's what happens when you have world-class talent, when you have three of the best pure offensive players in the game in Crosby, Malkin and Kessel. They're taking turns so far in this series and the Blue Jackets haven't had an answer for it.