18 Of The Best Headphones You Can Get On Amazon
18 Of The Best Headphones You Can Get On Amazon
"These headphones work like a charm. I wanted to upgrade from earbuds to over-ear headphones to block out the street noise on my regular commute. Thanks to these, I don't need to turn my volume on full blast, and my ears hurt less at the end of the day. I would honestly recommend these to any person looking for a way to catch all of the nuances of sounds in their audio recordings. Also, even with audio files that are really quiet, these headphones make it easy to hear." – Amazon Customer  $20.99 //  4.4 out of 5                                   "I am at work, next to the window, and there is a LITERAL JACKHAMMER outside the window. I have these headphones in, listening to music, and I can't hear it at all. If you want that in your life, these are the earbuds for you." – megello  $9.22 //  4.3 out of 5                                   "I really do like these headphones. They’re good at isolating your music from the outside world and also have been comfortable for hours of wear. One of my favorite features is that you can either use them wireless over bluetooth, or you can use the included cable as wired headphones and have unlimited listening time." – deeddawg  $34.69 //  4.4 out of 5                                   "These headphones have style and a GREAT deep sound. The wood definitely creates a better sound than I have ever heard before. The drums have that mid-bass "snap" that you can feel in person and usually miss out on with headphones at this price. Bass guitars sound like they are meant to in these headphones. All around, these headphones are very solid and look like they are much more high end than the price paid." – Tad D  $59.99 //  4.5 out of 5                                   "Overall all these are great headphones. They are stylish looking and come in a variety of colors so everyone can find something they like. They have an amazing sound — it's very clear with just the perfect amount of bass. The cord is heavy duty, and thickly covered in cloth making it very ideal." – Stephanie   $60 //  4 out of 5                                   "The materials look and feel good, and all adjustments are tight and precise. The ear cushions on these headphones are really soft, they are so lightweight and comfortable I can wear them for hours! I am most impressed by the connectivity — the reception is excellent. I can easily walk between several rooms of my house and not have any significant decline in audio quality. There is no need to set my headphones on the desk while I walk away. The mic works very well for phone calls; people on the other end could hear me clearly. The audio is clear, deep, and full, the mids, highs, and lows are well differentiated, and the option to connect with a 3.5mm aux cable is extremely helpful. It doesn't use battery when connected from there, and it is helpful if someone doesn't want to pair with bluetooth, or the device doesn't have it." – Cliff Doris  $29.87 //  5 out of 5                                   "I really like these earbuds. I use them nightly and have had no issues with them since purchasing. I like that there isn't a mic or volume control on the cords. They work great for the gym! I bought them for my friend as a birthday gift again and she also loves them very much." – Charlotte Black  $9.99 //  5 out of 5                                   "Sound-wise, the Audio Technica ATH M50X headphones are amazing. The range encompasses a large spectrum of audio quality that works from the lowest notes of my bass guitar to the highest notes of my electric guitar or my eight octave keyboard. They never buzz compared to other highly advertised headphones, and the chords that it came with makes it easier to use for different functions in the studio. Design-wise, they are really comfortable, and the 180° rotation on the cuffs makes it even easier to adjust for a perfect fit." – Amazon Customer  $137.90 //  4.6 out of 5                                   "They're called headphones and that's what they are. I love bass and they deliver. They are also comfortable for my head." – Tom M  $99.95 //  4.4 out of 5                                   "I really love these headphones! I'm not an audiophile or anything, but the sound quality sounds good to me, and the touch and swipe interface is super convenient compared to fiddling around with buttons. I like that you can use the wired connection if the battery runs out. Also, pairing everything was easy. My other Plattan ADVs (not bluetooth) headphones have lasted me two years and are still going strong, so I hope to keep these ones around from a while." – Simi  $87.89 //  4 out of 5                                   "The very first song I played was Within Temptation - , and it was immediately apparent that these headphones are in a whole other class. Now I can hear the bow crossing the strings, as well as clarity and separation in the other instruments that I could not hear with Beats headphones. The highs and mids are so much crisper with clarity and depth. Surprisingly enough, the bass is on par with the Beats so now I can have all of my sounds at the same time. These are the best sounding headphones that have ever been over my ears." – Savvy Shopper  $179.04 //  4.5 out of 5                                   "Great product if you are in the gym doing cardio for 50 minutes or more. The earbuds are comfortable and the volume is good. I love the ability to move around while talking on the phone or listening to music! The sound quality is superb, the noise cancelling is perfect, and the case is very handy." – doris warren  $35 //  4.8 out of 5                                   "These have an absolutely amazing sound. The bass, middle, and treble sound incredible, and almost all frequencies are covered. The length of the cord is also great, because you can connect it to the instrument even if you are away from it." – Julian Tinajero  $29.99 //  4.4 out of 5                                   "Sound is very clear, balanced, and full in both ears. These headphones sound better than any Beats headphones, and for a fraction of what they cost. I have been using them for about a week, and am very pleased with my purchase. I use them for night-time practicing with my amp, and have even used them on long phone calls, so as to not have to hold my phone to my head." – shaolin step  $79 //  4.8 out of 5                                   "They worked as soon as I tried them on. I like the idea of having the option of having wireless or wired headphones. It works with both Apple and Android phones. I really love the color!" – Amazon Customer  $299.95 //  4.5 out of 5                                   "I love these headphones! They are super comfortable and durable. The light ring is a really cool feature that I haven't seen on any other headphones that I've owned. The headphone stand is another feature I really love as an added bonus to the product — it's perfect for charging! I love that I can share my station with anyone I want and I can listen to other people's stations. This is going to be really awesome for long flights when I am watching movies with my spouse. No more sharing earbuds! – william Holden  $199.99 //  4.4 out of 5                                   "I love these headphones. I wanted a pair of comfy, affordable headphones for the office, and I was tired of being WIRED to my device. They're comfortable and have a pretty good sound. They also stay charged ALL DAY, so I can plug them in at night, and the next day they can get me through eight hours of office chatter." – LawGeek  $49.99 //  4.3 out of 5                                   "These headphones are the boss of all headphones in the hundred dollar price range. How can you beat this? I use them for professional music production, and the bass along with the rest of the sound quality is just AMAZING. It blows those Beats back under the ground into the sewer where they came from. Oh, and they look sick." – Jack  $59.99 //  4.4 out of 5                                🎶 🎶 🎶

Promising Review: "The materials look and feel good, and all adjustments are tight and precise. The ear cushions on these headphones are really soft, they are so lightweight and comfortable I can wear them for hours! I am most impressed by the connectivity — the reception is excellent. I can easily walk between several rooms of my house and not have any significant decline in audio quality. There is no need to set my headphones on the desk while I walk away. The mic works very well for phone calls; people on the other end could hear me clearly. The audio is clear, deep, and full, the mids, highs, and lows are well differentiated, and the option to connect with a 3.5mm aux cable is extremely helpful. It doesn't use battery when connected from there, and it is helpful if someone doesn't want to pair with bluetooth, or the device doesn't have it." –Cliff Doris

Price: $29.87 // Rating: 5 out of 5