Ranking the Most Overpaid Coaches in College Football Today
Ranking the Most Overpaid Coaches in College Football Today
Ranking the Most Overpaid Coaches in College Football Today Winning solves a lot of problems, but some of the highest-paid college football coaches haven't adequately met the challenge. The lack of wins or sustained success can make a coach seem overpaid. In an effort to decrease a portion of the necessary subjectivity, winning percentage provided a base cutoff line. Any coach above .700—an average of approximately nine wins in a 13-game season was eliminated from consideration. However, simple win-loss records don't always tell the complete story. Did a coach just arrive? Did he inherit a successful program or one needing a rebuild? Are the expectations for this school high, or is the team looking for its first taste of national relevancy or is it somewhere in between? Comparable coaches based on salary and conference affiliation, current tenure, recent seasons, predecessor success (if recent) and career record factored into the list. Conference and national championships were also considered. USA Today Exempt Coaches In the 2017 offseason, 21 programs hired a new coach. It's not fair to judge their contracts with a fresh winning percentage of 0.000. : Luke Fickell (Cincinnati), Randy Edsall (Connecticut), Major Applewhite (Houston), Charlie Strong (South Florida), Geoff Collins (Temple) : Tom Allen (Indiana), P.J. Fleck (Minnesota), Jeff Brohm (Purdue) : Matt Rhule (Baylor), Tom Herman (Texas) : Lane Kiffin (Florida Atlantic), Butch Davis (Florida International), Mike Sanford (Western Kentucky) : Tim Lester (Western Michigan) : Jeff Tedford (Fresno State), Jay Norvell (Nevada), Brent Brennan (San Jose State) : Justin Wilcox (Cal), Willie Taggart (Oregon) : Ed Orgeron (LSU) : Shawn Elliott (Georgia State) Additionally, 27 more coaches only have one year of experience. They are also excluded from the conversation because the adjustment period is typically a multi-year process. : Scott Frost (UCF), Scottie Montgomery (East Carolina), Mike Norvell (Memphis), Willie Fritz (Tulane) : : Lovie Smith (Illinois), D.J. Durkin (Maryland), Chris Ash (Rutgers) : Matt Campbell (Iowa State) : Seth Littrell (North Texas), Jay Hopson (Southern Miss), Frank Wilson (UTSA) : Kalani Satake (BYU) : Mike Neu (Ball State), Mike Jinks (Bowling Green), Jason Candle (Toledo) : Nick Rolovich (Hawaii) : Clay Helton (USC) : Kirby Smart (Georgia), Barry Odom (Missouri), Will Muschamp (South Carolina) : Tyson Summers (Georgia Southern), Matt Viator (Louisiana-Monroe), Everett Withers (Texas State) Potential Trouble in 2017 : Rich Rodriguez began his Arizona tenure with consecutive eight-win campaigns and a 10-win season. Since then, though, the Wildcats have dipped to 10-15. Rodriguez's $2.5 million salary is 41st nationally. : Call it the Bo Pelini rule. He reached nine wins during all seven seasons at the helm of Nebraska, but that wasn't good enough. Mike Riley might not receive much patience, either, since his $2.8 million salary is seventh-most in the Big Ten. : Joey Jones deserves a ton of credit for leading South Alabama's transition into the Football Bowl Subdivision. But at some point, the Jaguars need to assemble a breakout year. They've won either five or six games in each of the last four seasons for a 25-38 five-year mark. Meanwhile, Jones' $525,000 salary ranks in the top half of the Sun Belt. 6. Kirk Ferentz, Iowa : $4.5 million salary (T-10th nationally, T-3rd of 14 in Big Ten) : Kirk Ferentz has built a quality mid-tier program, but he's only topped 10 wins five times throughout his 17 years at Iowa and just twice in the last decade. : Of the 18 returning coaches who earned $4 million or more in 2016, Ferentz's .600 five-year winning percentage ranks 16th. Iowa is a perennial threat to pull an upset—and accomplished exactly that against Michigan in 2016 5. Steve Addazio, Boston College : $2.33 million salary (48th nationally, 7th of 11 listed ACC schools); .471 winning percentage : Frank Spaziani mustered a 21-29 record from 2009-2012 before Boston College moved on to Steve Addazio. His four-year mark is 24-27. Seven-win seasons are respectable, but the program has already proved it's capable of more in the ACC. : Although t 4. Butch Jones, Tennessee : $4.1 million salary (18th nationally, 9th of 14 in SEC) : Butch Jones has come close to silencing a portion of the critics. However, Tennessee hasn't quite been champions of anything except for life under him. Late-game collapses have plagued the Vols throughout his tenure. : 3. Mark Stoops, Kentucky : $3.5 million (26th nationally, 11th of 14 in SEC) : Progress is important. Since Mark Stoops took over, Kentucky has raised its win total from two to five (in consecutive years) to seven. But of the 19 total victories under Stoops, just eight have occurred in SEC play. : Without question, Stoops has a challenging job. The program has only recorded two eight-win seasons in the last 30 years, and he approached the mark last season. At $3.5 million per season and rising, though, expectations won't drop. Of the top 40 returning coaches, the only winning percentage lower than Stoops at .388 is from Virginia's Bronco Mendenhall, who just arrived in Charlottesville last year. 2. Kliff Kingsbury, Texas Tech : $3.3 million salary (30th nationally, 5th of 10 in Big 12) : Excitement followed Kliff Kingsbury's hiring at his alma mater. But the Red Raiders have only regressed since his 8-5 debut, mustering 16 wins over the last three years. : Texas Tech's offense was exciting with Patrick Mahomes II slinging the football. Unfortunately for him, the Red Raiders often wasted his massive production. The last three defenses ranked 125th, 127th and 128th nationally, respectively, out of 128 teams. Considering that, it's not surprising Texas Tech hasn't achieved consistent success. If that doesn't change soon, Kingsbury may go from overpaid to briefly unemployed. 1. Bret Bielema, Arkansas : $4.1 million salary (17th nationally, 8th of 14 in SEC) : Bret Bielema bolted Wisconsin for Arkansas, which was caught in a weird spot after Bobby Petrino's departure and a poor season from John L. Smith. Bielema has steadied the program, but that's come at a major financial cost. : For good reason, the SEC West has earned the reputation of being college football's toughest place to win. Bielema hasn't navigated the division with much success, posting a 7-17 record against the West and 10-22 overall in the SEC. Bielema's .490 winning percentage is the worst among the 18 returning coaches who collected at least a $4 million salary last year.

1 of 9

David Stephenson/Associated Press

Winning solves a lot of problems, but some of the highest-paid college football coaches haven't adequately met the challenge. The lack of wins or sustained success can make a coach seem overpaid.

In an effort to decrease a portion of the necessary subjectivity, winning percentage provided a base cutoff line. Any coach above .700—an average of approximately nine wins in a 13-game season—was eliminated from consideration.

However, simple win-loss records don't always tell the complete story. Did a coach just arrive? Did he inherit a successful program or one needing a rebuild? Are the expectations for this school high, or is the team looking for its first taste of national relevancy or is it somewhere in between?

Comparable coaches based on salary and conference affiliation, current tenure, recent seasons, predecessor success (if recent) and career record factored into the list. Conference and national championships were also considered.

All salaries are from the USA Today database unless otherwise noted.