How ‘Survivor’ and CBS Prepared for Outrage at Transgender Contestant’s Outing
How ‘Survivor’ and CBS Prepared for Outrage at Transgender Contestant’s Outing
At first blush, it looks like a crisis for CBS: broadcasting an episode of its hit reality show “Survivor” on Wednesday in which one contestant outs a rival as transgender during an elimination round — a violation of privacy as well as a cultural flash point. But in fact, CBS and the producers of “Survivor” have been preparing for months for just the kind of uproar that ensued Thursday over the outing of Zeke Smith. From the moment the episode was filmed nearly 10 months ago, the “Survivor” producers had been consulting with Mr. Smith about how best to handle airing the incident, which included a strategic media rollout and working with Glaad, the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender rights group, before the episode’s broadcast. “The idea of not airing this never came up,” Jeff Probst, the show’s longtime host and an executive producer, said in an interview. “Zeke never asked for that. While he certainly did not have a hand in editing the show, Zeke and I have talked for nine months.” Advertisement Mr. Probst continued, “Zeke’s approach has been: ‘I’m going to use this and make something great come from it.’” Advertisement During the show’s so-called tribal council — in which contestants vote a member off an island in Fiji — the contestant Jeff Varner told Mr. Probst and the group that there had been “deception on levels, Jeff, that these guys don’t even understand.” Turning to Mr. Smith, he asked, “Why haven’t you told anyone you’re transgender?” Mr. Smith sat in stunned silence as the other contestants erupted in outrage, calling Mr. Varner’s comments inappropriate and irrelevant to the game. (Mr. Varner, who was already on thin ice, was eliminated.) Mr. Probst said he learned that Mr. Smith, an asset manager from Brooklyn, was transgender as they went through the casting process before Mr. Smith’s first season on the show, which was broadcast last fall. (He is on consecutive seasons of “Survivor,” and his gender had not come up before.) “I know from talking to Zeke a lot before the show that he was fully prepared with the fact that it might come out,” Mr. Probst said. “And he said, ‘I will handle that as I need to, if it does.’” Still, Mr. Probst said that no one was expecting it to be deployed as a bombshell at a tribal council — a portion of a “Survivor” episode in which dramatic reveals are more likely to make it to broadcast because they may affect who is eliminated in the vote. “I was as shocked as anybody else,” said Mr. Probst, who added that Mr. Varner had not indicated to a producer that he was going to bring the issue up during the vote. On Thursday, Mr. Smith appeared on the daytime CBS show “The Talk” and said that he had been “granted unprecedented autonomy” in working with CBS and Mr. Probst to prepare for the episode’s broadcast and the personal revelations on national television. He also spoke of the show’s “integrity.” Several opinion columns on the matter were even written in advance, in effect highlighting the outing and stoking the reactions. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Mr. Smith himself wrote a column for T he Hollywood Reporter published on Wednesday night, timed to the broadcast of the episode. Advertisement “In calling me deceptive, Varner invoked one of the most odious stereotypes of transgender people, a stereotype that is often used as an excuse for violence and even murder,” Mr. Smith wrote. “In proclaiming, ‘Zeke is not the guy you think he is,’ and that ‘there is deception on levels y’all don’t understand,’ Varner is saying that I’m not really a man and that simply living as my authentic self is a nefarious trick. In reality, by being Zeke the dude, I am being my most honest self.” After the episode was broadcast, reactions poured in. “Zeke Smith, and transgender people like him, are not deceiving anyone by being their authentic selves, and it is dangerous and unacceptable to out a transgender person,” Nick Adams, an official with Glaad, said in a statement . Some viewers, supportive of Mr. Smith, were roundly unforgiving of his being outed. “The worst, cruelest moment ever on Survivor,” one wrote on Twitter . “Stunned,” another  fumed . “Can’t believe anyone would take it to that level.” Some on social media noted that CBS could have chosen not to air the segment. “No Probst, YOU told millions of people. #Survivor,” the recent contestant Max Dawson posted on Twitter . But another former contestant, Eliza Orlins, wrote that it was “unavoidable” to include the outing moment in the show. “No way to edit around it. Yikes,” she wrote . In a statement Thursday, CBS said of Mr. Smith, “From his first season through the current edition, we have always been guided by the principle that this is his story to tell, and it remains so. “We support how Jeff Probst and the producers handled a very sensitive situation,” the statement continued, “and marvel at the grace Zeke exhibited under extraordinary circumstances.” Mr. Varner, a real estate agent from High Point, N.C., apologized on his Facebook and Twitter accounts shortly after the episode aired. “Yep. I did that,” he wrote. “And I offer my deepest, most heartfelt apologies to Zeke Smith, his friends and life allies, his family, and to all those who my mistake hurt and offended. I recklessly revealed something I mistakenly believed everyone already knew. I was wrong and make no excuses for it. I own responsibility in what is the worst decision of my life.” Advertisement He added, “Let me be clear, outing someone is assault.” During the tribal council, Mr. Probst decided to forgo a usual “Survivor” tradition. Instead of inviting cast members to write down the person they wished to vote off the island, Mr. Probst asked them all aloud if they agreed that Mr. Varner was the one to go. “This moment, because of where we are in the culture, seemed to be so much bigger than our show,” Mr. Probst said in the interview. “And so this ritual of a torch snuffing, which is usually the end of an episode and very important, suddenly became completely insignificant.” “What happened at tribal transcended ‘Survivor,’” he said. Daniel Victor contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on April 14, 2017, on Page B3 of the with the headline: Outing of ‘Survivor’ Contestant That Set Off an Uproar Was Shot Months Ago.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.    Opinion

Mr. Probst continued, “Zeke’s approach has been: ‘I’m going to use this and make something great come from it.’”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During the show’s so-called tribal council — in which contestants vote a member off an island in Fiji — the contestant Jeff Varner told Mr. Probst and the group that there had been “deception on levels, Jeff, that these guys don’t even understand.”

Turning to Mr. Smith, he asked, “Why haven’t you told anyone you’re transgender?”

Mr. Smith sat in stunned silence as the other contestants erupted in outrage, calling Mr. Varner’s comments inappropriate and irrelevant to the game. (Mr. Varner, who was already on thin ice, was eliminated.)

Mr. Probst said he learned that Mr. Smith, an asset manager from Brooklyn, was transgender as they went through the casting process before Mr. Smith’s first season on the show, which was broadcast last fall. (He is on consecutive seasons of “Survivor,” and his gender had not come up before.)

“I know from talking to Zeke a lot before the show that he was fully prepared with the fact that it might come out,” Mr. Probst said. “And he said, ‘I will handle that as I need to, if it does.’”

Still, Mr. Probst said that no one was expecting it to be deployed as a bombshell at a tribal council — a portion of a “Survivor” episode in which dramatic reveals are more likely to make it to broadcast because they may affect who is eliminated in the vote.

“I was as shocked as anybody else,” said Mr. Probst, who added that Mr. Varner had not indicated to a producer that he was going to bring the issue up during the vote.

On Thursday, Mr. Smith appeared on the daytime CBS show “The Talk” and said that he had been “granted unprecedented autonomy” in working with CBS and Mr. Probst to prepare for the episode’s broadcast and the personal revelations on national television. He also spoke of the show’s “integrity.”

Several opinion columns on the matter were even written in advance, in effect highlighting the outing and stoking the reactions.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Mr. Smith himself wrote a column for The Hollywood Reporter published on Wednesday night, timed to the broadcast of the episode.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

“In calling me deceptive, Varner invoked one of the most odious stereotypes of transgender people, a stereotype that is often used as an excuse for violence and even murder,” Mr. Smith wrote. “In proclaiming, ‘Zeke is not the guy you think he is,’ and that ‘there is deception on levels y’all don’t understand,’ Varner is saying that I’m not really a man and that simply living as my authentic self is a nefarious trick. In reality, by being Zeke the dude, I am being my most honest self.”

After the episode was broadcast, reactions poured in.

“Zeke Smith, and transgender people like him, are not deceiving anyone by being their authentic selves, and it is dangerous and unacceptable to out a transgender person,” Nick Adams, an official with Glaad, said in a statement.

Some viewers, supportive of Mr. Smith, were roundly unforgiving of his being outed.

“The worst, cruelest moment ever on Survivor,” one wrote on Twitter.

“Stunned,” another fumed. “Can’t believe anyone would take it to that level.”

Some on social media noted that CBS could have chosen not to air the segment. “No Probst, YOU told millions of people. #Survivor,” the recent contestant Max Dawson posted on Twitter. But another former contestant, Eliza Orlins, wrote that it was “unavoidable” to include the outing moment in the show.

“No way to edit around it. Yikes,” she wrote.

In a statement Thursday, CBS said of Mr. Smith, “From his first season through the current edition, we have always been guided by the principle that this is his story to tell, and it remains so.

“We support how Jeff Probst and the producers handled a very sensitive situation,” the statement continued, “and marvel at the grace Zeke exhibited under extraordinary circumstances.”

Mr. Varner, a real estate agent from High Point, N.C., apologized on his Facebook and Twitter accounts shortly after the episode aired.

“Yep. I did that,” he wrote. “And I offer my deepest, most heartfelt apologies to Zeke Smith, his friends and life allies, his family, and to all those who my mistake hurt and offended. I recklessly revealed something I mistakenly believed everyone already knew. I was wrong and make no excuses for it. I own responsibility in what is the worst decision of my life.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He added, “Let me be clear, outing someone is assault.”

During the tribal council, Mr. Probst decided to forgo a usual “Survivor” tradition. Instead of inviting cast members to write down the person they wished to vote off the island, Mr. Probst asked them all aloud if they agreed that Mr. Varner was the one to go.

“This moment, because of where we are in the culture, seemed to be so much bigger than our show,” Mr. Probst said in the interview. “And so this ritual of a torch snuffing, which is usually the end of an episode and very important, suddenly became completely insignificant.”

“What happened at tribal transcended ‘Survivor,’” he said.