Police: Man charged in deadly shooting on train in Atlanta
Police: Man charged in deadly shooting on train in Atlanta
Shares                A 36-year-old man was arrested Friday and faces charges in the shooting death of another man and the wounding of three other riders on an Atlanta commuter train, authorities said. Police said Thursday's shooting of 37-year-old Zachariah Hunnicutt aboard a Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit train was apparently a "targeted, isolated incident." MARTA Police Chief Wanda Dunham said Hunnicutt was shot to death and three other people who were wounded are expected to survive. She said MARTA officers captured Chauncey Lee Daniels at the Atlanta station shortly after the shooting there. Daniels faces charges of murder , aggravated assault and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon and has been jailed, authorities said. It wasn't immediately known if he has an attorney. According to an incident report released Friday, the gunman was captured on surveillance video shooting the victims as the train approached Atlanta's West Lake station. Dunham said the shooting remains under investigation and police are asking anyone with information about it to contact them Dunham said they have increased the number of officers patrolling the transit system. Transit officials said ridership has been surging as motorists look for alternate ways to get around traffic snarls after a March 30 fire beneath an Interstate 85 overpass in Atlanta led to its collapse. Shares                  Police: Man charged in deadly shooting on train in Atlanta   North Korea rolls out missiles, other weaponry at parade   Aaron Hernandez found not guilty in double murder case   Fugitive who mailed manifesto to Trump captured in Wisconsin   Trump White House will not make visitor logs public   10 infants in California intensive care test unit positive for antibiotic resistant superbug   Apple receives permit to test self-driving cars   Justice Department drops North Carolina LGBT rights lawsuit   Russia, Iran and Syria issue warning to US   Officer asked Pulse shooting victims: 'If you're alive, raise your hand'   Daughter of NYC cop killed in 9/11 attacks joins NYPD   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   Fired officers had previously arrested same man   Trump's reversals come after crash course on the issues   Funeral arrangements set for Steelers' chairman Dan Rooney   Oklahoma 'witch' gets life terms for terrorizing grandchild   Lawyer: Little money involved in Trump sanctuary order   Pope speaks of humanity's "shame" in Good Friday procession   Wounded Bartra says blasts 'hardest 15 minutes' of his life   New leak suggests NSA penetrated Mideast banking networks   Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy says Carrie Fisher will not be in 'Episode IX'   Exclusive: Mark Hamill says 'it's possible' Luke goes to dark side in 'The Last Jedi'   'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' goes 'deeper into Rey's story'   Boston to mark 4th anniversary of deadly marathon bombing   Behind pioneering female runner’s return to Boston Marathon 50 years later   Meet the 2 wounded veterans running the Boston and London marathons tethered together   Facebook targets 30,000 fake France accounts before election   Bellagio catches fire, causing closure of Las Vegas Strip   Prince Harry spotted visiting Meghan Markle in Toronto   Paul Simon's oceanfront home in danger of slip sliding away

A 36-year-old man was arrested Friday and faces charges in the shooting death of another man and the wounding of three other riders on an Atlanta commuter train, authorities said.

Police said Thursday's shooting of 37-year-old Zachariah Hunnicutt aboard a Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit train was apparently a "targeted, isolated incident."

MARTA Police Chief Wanda Dunham said Hunnicutt was shot to death and three other people who were wounded are expected to survive. She said MARTA officers captured Chauncey Lee Daniels at the Atlanta station shortly after the shooting there.

Daniels faces charges of murder, aggravated assault and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon and has been jailed, authorities said. It wasn't immediately known if he has an attorney.

According to an incident report released Friday, the gunman was captured on surveillance video shooting the victims as the train approached Atlanta's West Lake station. Dunham said the shooting remains under investigation and police are asking anyone with information about it to contact them

Dunham said they have increased the number of officers patrolling the transit system.

Transit officials said ridership has been surging as motorists look for alternate ways to get around traffic snarls after a March 30 fire beneath an Interstate 85 overpass in Atlanta led to its collapse.