KPMGVoice: How Much Power Does President Trump Actually Have Over Trade Deals?
KPMGVoice: How Much Power Does President Trump Actually Have Over Trade Deals?
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  KPMG       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President Trump’s pledge to shake up existing trade agreements and negotiations has already had tangible impact in one sense: It has given pause to many U.S. companies that depend on exports and imports to do business. One of the President’s stated concerns is the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, the U.S. accord with two of its largest trading partners, Mexico and Canada. President Trump has vowed to renegotiate—and possibly scrap—the 1993 pact, which was designed to eliminate trade barriers and promote fair competition among the three countries. The uncertainty is not just about what President Trump might do with NAFTA. There’s also considerable debate about what the law him to do. Adding to the confusion is how Mexico might respond to any protectionist U.S. trade measures, especially higher tariffs. Mexico’s economic minister has already signaled that Mexico would be prepared to immediately neutralize the impact of higher tariffs on Mexican goods. Learn more insights from KPMG on trade issues. All this has left U.S. importers and exporters struggling to forecast the long-term prospects, costs and compliance rules of doing business under NAFTA. Among the possible ramifications: Supply chains could be disrupted, and U.S. consumers could find themselves paying more for imports. One of the thorniest questions is just how much authority the president has to change or eliminate NAFTA. The smoothest and most predictable course would be for the White House to renegotiate NAFTA or get congressional approval to end it. But if the president decides to withdraw U.S. participation in NAFTA on his own, a legal battle would likely follow, possibly lasting years. So far, the judiciary branch has been reluctant to get involved in the issue. The federal courts—and even the U.S. Supreme Court—have declined to resolve questions about the president’s authority to terminate international treaties. When President George W. Bush withdrew from an anti-ballistic missile treaty with the former Soviet Union in 2001, 32 members of the House of Representatives filed a complaint in federal court, arguing that the president didn’t have the authority to terminate the treaty. The District Court dismissed the complaint, saying the issue was “a political question best left for resolution to the political branches of our government.”  However, the justiciability of the president’s unilateral withdrawal from a free trade agreement, such as NAFTA, which arguably is the province of Congress, may be distinguishable from the withdrawal from a “treaty”. Even if the president succeeded in ending NAFTA, preferential duties for Mexican and Canadian goods might not end right away. The agreement calls for them to remain in effect for a year after termination. The president could end them immediately, but then he’d have to notify and recommend to Congress what duties should be imposed instead. President Trump said repeatedly during the campaign that he intended to increase the ”tax” on imports from Mexico to 35 percent. An increase that large would likely result in a substantial rise in import costs for U.S. companies, which likely would be passed on to U.S. consumers in the form of higher prices for goods. And if Mexico retaliated with its own tariffs, U.S. companies would find it harder to export and sell their goods there. The possibility of an ensuing trade war cannot be dismissed. The U.S. has already had painful experiences with trade battles. After the 1930 Smoot-Hawley Tariffs were imposed, retaliatory tariffs by America’s trading partners caused a sharp reduction in U.S. exports. According to former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, a well-known student of the Great Depression, “Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing tariff wars were highly counterproductive and contributed to the depth and length of the global Depression.” Despite the possible risks, the Trump administration has made it clear since the November election that trade will be one of the key issues of his presidency. Though what he plans to do about NAFTA remains uncertain, any action he takes will have significant consequences for many U.S. businesses. Read more about how Trump, NAFTA and other issues of trade processes are impacting U.S. businesses. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

President Trump’s pledge to shake up existing trade agreements and negotiations has already had tangible impact in one sense: It has given pause to many U.S. companies that depend on exports and imports to do business.

One of the President’s stated concerns is the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, the U.S. accord with two of its largest trading partners, Mexico and Canada. President Trump has vowed to renegotiate—and possibly scrap—the 1993 pact, which was designed to eliminate trade barriers and promote fair competition among the three countries.

The uncertainty is not just about what President Trump might do with NAFTA. There’s also considerable debate about what the law allows him to do. Adding to the confusion is how Mexico might respond to any protectionist U.S. trade measures, especially higher tariffs. Mexico’s economic minister has already signaled that Mexico would be prepared to immediately neutralize the impact of higher tariffs on Mexican goods.

Learn more insights from KPMG on trade issues.

All this has left U.S. importers and exporters struggling to forecast the long-term prospects, costs and compliance rules of doing business under NAFTA. Among the possible ramifications: Supply chains could be disrupted, and U.S. consumers could find themselves paying more for imports.

One of the thorniest questions is just how much authority the president has to change or eliminate NAFTA. The smoothest and most predictable course would be for the White House to renegotiate NAFTA or get congressional approval to end it. But if the president decides to withdraw U.S. participation in NAFTA on his own, a legal battle would likely follow, possibly lasting years.

So far, the judiciary branch has been reluctant to get involved in the issue. The federal courts—and even the U.S. Supreme Court—have declined to resolve questions about the president’s authority to terminate international treaties.

When President George W. Bush withdrew from an anti-ballistic missile treaty with the former Soviet Union in 2001, 32 members of the House of Representatives filed a complaint in federal court, arguing that the president didn’t have the authority to terminate the treaty. The District Court dismissed the complaint, saying the issue was “a political question best left for resolution to the political branches of our government.” However, the justiciability of the president’s unilateral withdrawal from a free trade agreement, such as NAFTA, which arguably is the province of Congress, may be distinguishable from the withdrawal from a “treaty”.

Even if the president succeeded in ending NAFTA, preferential duties for Mexican and Canadian goods might not end right away. The agreement calls for them to remain in effect for a year after termination. The president could end them immediately, but then he’d have to notify and recommend to Congress what duties should be imposed instead.

President Trump said repeatedly during the campaign that he intended to increase the ”tax” on imports from Mexico to 35 percent. An increase that large would likely result in a substantial rise in import costs for U.S. companies, which likely would be passed on to U.S. consumers in the form of higher prices for goods.

And if Mexico retaliated with its own tariffs, U.S. companies would find it harder to export and sell their goods there. The possibility of an ensuing trade war cannot be dismissed.

The U.S. has already had painful experiences with trade battles. After the 1930 Smoot-Hawley Tariffs were imposed, retaliatory tariffs by America’s trading partners caused a sharp reduction in U.S. exports.

According to former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, a well-known student of the Great Depression, “Smoot-Hawley and the ensuing tariff wars were highly counterproductive and contributed to the depth and length of the global Depression.”

Despite the possible risks, the Trump administration has made it clear since the November election that trade will be one of the key issues of his presidency. Though what he plans to do about NAFTA remains uncertain, any action he takes will have significant consequences for many U.S. businesses.

Read more about how Trump, NAFTA and other issues of trade processes are impacting U.S. businesses.

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International. The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the specific circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Some of the services or offerings provided by KPMG LLP are not permissible for its audit clients or affiliates.