To Make Sure That Goa Locals Remain 'Sanskari', State Govt Will Ban Their Entry Into Casinos
To Make Sure That Goa Locals Remain 'Sanskari', State Govt Will Ban Their Entry Into Casinos
To Make Sure That Goa Locals Remain 'Sanskari', State Govt Will Ban Their Entry Into Casinos In a move that could draw the ire of locals in Goa, the state government is working towards banning their entry into casinos. "I sincerely believe that gambling is not good. If we can, we should remove it from the state. It is human nature to gamble that is why we cannot eradicate it completely, but definitely, we cannot encourage it," Goa Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar told in an interview last night. "That is why we had decided on a policy to ban Goans from going to casinos. A lot has been done about it, and in the days to come there will be a complete ban on locals going to casinos," he added. Parrikar also said the state government would relocate offshore casino vessels from River Mandovi to another location. The Chief Minister, however, said that the state government would not shut down the casinos immediately, as some companies have invested in it. Assuring a solution for the garbage problem in the state, Parrikar said, "In last two-and-a-half years, we have seen garbage problem which has emerged in a big way. That is why I have given thrust to garbage disposal and treatment in my recent budget. The process has already started. We will start working from July on it." "We already have a garbage treatment plant. I am proud to say that the power generated from garbage has been sent to state power grid," the CM said. Parrikar ruled out the state would face a financial crisis due to various issues like ban on sale of liquor along highways and the crippled mining industry.

In a move that could draw the ire of locals in Goa, the state government is working towards banning their entry into casinos.

bccl/representational image

"I sincerely believe that gambling is not good. If we can, we should remove it from the state. It is human nature to gamble that is why we cannot eradicate it completely, but definitely, we cannot encourage it," Goa Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar told DD News in an interview last night.

"That is why we had decided on a policy to ban Goans from going to casinos. A lot has been done about it, and in the days to come there will be a complete ban on locals going to casinos," he added.

Reuters/representational image

Parrikar also said the state government would relocate offshore casino vessels from River Mandovi to another location. The Chief Minister, however, said that the state government would not shut down the casinos immediately, as some companies have invested in it.

Reuters/representational image

Assuring a solution for the garbage problem in the state, Parrikar said, "In last two-and-a-half years, we have seen garbage problem which has emerged in a big way. That is why I have given thrust to garbage disposal and treatment in my recent budget. The process has already started. We will start working from July on it."

"We already have a garbage treatment plant. I am proud to say that the power generated from garbage has been sent to state power grid," the CM said.

Parrikar ruled out the state would face a financial crisis due to various issues like ban on sale of liquor along highways and the crippled mining industry.

Reuters/representational image

Don't Miss 211 SHARES 90.1 K SHARES 45.1 K SHARES 13.4 K SHARES 26.5 K SHARES

"We have projected 11 per cent GDP growth in the recent budget, but I feel we will go up to 14-15 per cent. GST regime will help Goa as it is a consuming state. Tax and services contribute to the revenue," he said.

"After mining ban was lifted, we have started 20 million tons production. Liquor highway ban...I don't think it will have much impact on revenue. I believe we will find a solution for that. We are also trying to rehabilitate establishments which are affected by the Supreme Court order," he added.

Inputs From PTI