Afghan authorities say 36 suspected Isil militants killed as US states decision to drop 'Mother of All Bombs' was purely tactical
Afghan authorities say 36 suspected Isil militants killed as US states decision to drop 'Mother of All Bombs' was purely tactical
fghan authorities said 36 suspected Isil militants were killed when the US detonated the largest conventional bomb ever used in combat over a complex of tunnels and caves. The commander of US forces in the country on Friday insisted the decision to use the 21-000lb device was purely tactical while analysts tried to understand what the Massive Ordnance Air Blast (Moab) bomb – nicknamed the Mother of All Bombs – meant for America’s longest running war. It comes soon after Mr Trump announced he was dispatching his National Security Adviser to the region as part of an ongoing review of White House Afghan policy. he extraordinary destructive power of the GBU-43/B bomb has catapulted Afghanistan’s bloodshed back into public consciousness at a time when it had become just another forgotten war. General John Nicholson, who heads the Nato-led mission in the country, said its use was based on his assessment of military needs rather than broader political considerations. “This was the first time that we encountered an extensive obstacle to our progress," he said of a joint Afghan-US operation that has been fighting Isil in Nangarhah province since March. "It was the right time to use it tactically against the right target on the battlefield." merican officers said the bomb’s massive one-mile shockwave made it the ideal weapon to demolish a network of shallow caves where Isil fighters had thwarted the progress of local and US forces. Afghan defence officials added that they believed 36 Isil members had died. They said there were no civilian casualties in the sparsely populated area near the border with Pakistan. hat account was disputed by Amaq, Isil’s news agency, which said the group had not suffered any losses. Coming so soon after Mr Trump ordered a cruise missile strike on Syria, the use of such a devastating weapon raises the prospect that the new administration – defeated at home by the courts and Congress on its travel ban and healthcare overhaul - is turning its attention to foreign policy. fter more than 15 years of conflict in Afghanistan, peace and stability seem as far away as ever. Afghan forces are struggling to keep the Taliban at bay despite the backing of Operation Resolute Support, a Nato-led mission to train, advise and assist local troops. The US has about 8,400 troops left in Afghanistan, with a further 5,000 deployed by Nato allies. That includes about 500 British personnel. The Pentagon estimates that Kabul controls about 60 per cent of the country while the Taliban holds 10 per cent. Other counts give a different sense of the group’s penetration. The US government’s Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction suggests militants are active in 171 of 400 districts. or its part, US forces say they want to rid the country of Isil by the end of the year – in keeping with a president who has made eliminating the group his number one foreign policy priority. The Khorasan group, as the local branch is known, was set up by defecting members of the Pakistan Taliban in 2015 and quickly gained territory amid Afghanistan’s turmoil. ut the past year has seen it lose half its territory amid heavy fighting. Its numbers were already down to as few as 600 fighters with little activity beyond Nangahar. That is the complex situation that greets Lt Gen HR McMaster, himself a veteran of the Afghan war and now Mr Trump’s National Security Adviser, as he attempts to oversee a White House review of strategy. Afghan officials fear the long-running war has been forgotten by Washington and hope his visit – the first by a senior Trump official – will help clarify US plans. en John Nicholson, who commands the Nato-led mission, has already called for more forces. He told a Senate committee in February that the international coalition faced “a shortfall of a few thousand” troops to break the “stalemate”. Analysts said they were still struggling to gain any insight into what the Trump administration was planning. Michael Wahid Hanna, a US foreign policy expert at the Century Foundation, said Isil posed much less threat to Kabul than the Taliban, limiting any strategic gains from detonating such a massive non-nuclear bomb. “The body counts we’ve heard in the past year, and the numbers we’ve heard more recently of hundreds of fighters, it seems an odd choice,” he said. n the other hand, it may demonstrate how a new White House has devolved authority to commanders on the ground, whatever the consequences. Tom Spoehr, director of the Centre for National Defence at the Heritage Foundation, said the muscular approach would play well with Mr Trump’s base. “I’m not certain the commander on the ground would have been given this kind of authority by the previous administration, and now you are seeing not just in Afghanistan but in other theatres, like Somalia, where commanders are being given more authority to prosecute the war,” he said.

Afghan authorities said 36 suspected Isil militants were killed when the US detonated the largest conventional bomb ever used in combat over a complex of tunnels and caves.

The commander of US forces in the country on Friday insisted the decision to use the 21-000lb device was purely tactical while analysts tried to understand what the Massive Ordnance Air Blast (Moab) bomb – nicknamed the Mother of All Bombs – meant for America’s longest running war.

It comes soon after Mr Trump announced he was dispatching his National Security Adviser to the region as part of an ongoing review of White House Afghan policy.