Christians in Mexico covered with CACTI for Good Friday
Christians in Mexico cover themselves with CACTI in Good Friday ritual


Christians in Mexico have covered themselves with hundreds of cacti, shackled themselves with chains and worn crowns of thorns to commemorate Good Friday.

The religious devotees also wore masks as they marched through the streets carrying statues of Jesus.

The men, from the town of Atlixco, were taking part in the traditional 'Engrillados' ceremony.

Christians in Mexico have covered themselves with hundreds of cacti, shackled themselves with chains and worn crowns of thorns to commemorate Good Friday

The religious devotees also wore masks as they marched through the streets carrying statues of Jesus

This traditional celebration of Good Friday remembers the first Friday before Easter, which marks the date of Jesus Christ's crucifixion by the Roman authorities.

Large crowds can be seen watching yesterday's procession.

The traditional march is believed to have been practised for more than 100 years in the country.

Parish priest Alfredo Gutiérrez Rodríguez said: 'We have refused to recognize the sanctity of life [and] how great man is by being alive,' according to Sintesis.

The men, from the town of Atlixco, were taking part in the traditional 'Engrillados' ceremony

This traditional celebration of Good Friday remembers the first Friday before Easter, which marks the date of Jesus Christ's crucifixion by the Roman authorities

Another traditional Mexican celebration saw penitents carry thorny branches through the streets of Taxco in the south of the country.

In an even more extreme sign of religious devotion, some men in the Philippines have been known to be willingly nailed to crosses and furiously whip themselves bloody with metal chains.

These celebrations are one of the most extreme and striking examples of how people from around the world mark Easter.

The traditional march is believed to have been practised for more than 100 years in the country