NBA Playoff Bracket Round-by-Round Predictions
NBA Playoff Bracket Round-by-Round Predictions
NBA Playoff Bracket Round-by-Round Predictions Do you smell it? Not the flow of pollen from flower children filing out to California's desert to Coachella. Not the sweet scents of spring holiday confections. And certainly not the stench of NBA teams tanking their way to more lottery combinations. No, the most pungent odor this time of year is the blood, sweat and tears of playoff basketball. There will be plenty of all three as the Cleveland Cavaliers flip the switch in defense of their title, the Golden State Warriors kick their juggernaut into high gear and the league's long list of MVP candidates state their cases again after the votes have already been tallied. With the start of the Association's second season comes another opportunity for predictions, some of which are bound to blow up in the faces of those putting them forward. That danger didn't deter us from picking winners round by round. Nor will it stop the basketball gods from laughing in our faces if (or when) reality bites back on our selections. East Quarterfinals: No. 1 Boston Celtics vs. No. 8 Chicago Bulls You would probably have to go back to the early 2000s to find a No. 1 seed weaker than these Boston Celtics . In 2002, the then-New Jersey Nets snagged the top spot in the East with 52 wins. The following year, the Detroit Pistons needed just 50 to scale the conference standings. But those Pistons went on to win the title the next year, behind a bruising bunch that battled on the boards and played stifling defense. These C's don't do much of either. They finished outside the top 10 in defensive efficiency and landed among the bottom four in defensive rebounding percentage . The Chicago Bulls are well equipped to take advantage of those deficiencies. They wound up fourth in offensive rebounding percentage , thanks in no small part to Robin Lopez's three offensive boards per game. Boston doesn't have anyone who can truly counteract his size. Al Horford and Amir Johnson aren't exactly dynamos on the glass. Neither are Tyler Zeller and Jonas Jerebko. The C's biggest headaches figure to come courtesy of Jimmy Butler. He may be the best player in this series and could have plenty of help on the perimeter from a resurgent Rajon Rondo and a recovered Dwyane Wade . Boston, though, has a plethora of pesky wing defenders to throw at Butler and his cohort, from Avery Bradley and Jae Crowder to Marcus Smart and rookie Jaylen Brown. If those guys can keep Jimmy Buckets in check well enough to give Isaiah Thomas an opportunity to bring them home down the stretch, the Celtics should have just enough to send the Bulls back to the Windy City at the end of a hard-fought series. East Quarterfinals: No. 2 Cleveland Cavaliers vs. No. 7 Indiana Pacers Much has changed for LeBron James and Paul George since they last met in the conference finals three years ago. The former has extended his streak of Finals appearances to six, with an epic title run for the Cleveland Cavaliers tacked on last year. The latter broke his leg and missed most of the 2014-15 campaign before bouncing back individually over the last two campaigns while watching the Indiana Pacers rejigger the roster around him. Without Roy Hibbert and David West , Indy no longer has the size inside to deter James. What the Pacers do have, though, is Lance Stephenson back in the fold, presumably to pester Northeast Ohio's favorite son. George, of course, is the bigger threat to Cleveland. As he showed during last year's first-round series against the Toronto Raptors (and during an overtime loss to the Cavs in early April), he's fully capable of taking over big games by himself. Against a motivated Cleveland team, that might be good enough to get Indy one game. James getting out of the first round is as close to a sure thing as there is in the NBA; he's always advanced when he's been in the postseason. That doesn't figure to change this year, as much as the Cavaliers' slide into mid-April might indicate otherwise. The games matter for the defending champions now, which should be enough to kick them into high gear after an extended sleepwalk. East Quarterfinals: No. 3 Toronto Raptors vs. No. 6 Milwaukee Bucks The Toronto Raptors have (almost) every reason to believe they'll bypass the Milwaukee Bucks . They've been a superior squad on both ends— top 10 on offense and defense for Toronto versus middle of the pack in each category for Milwaukee—and proved to be so by taking three out of four from the Bucks during their season series. East Quarterfinals: No. 4 Washington Wizards vs. No. 5 Atlanta Hawks Few teams have been hotter since the calendar turned to 2017 than the Washington Wizards . John Wall and Bradley Beal, both healthy throughout a season together for the first time in their careers, have transformed what was once a middling offense under Randy Wittman into one of the NBA's elite scoring machines for head coach Scott Brooks. The Atlanta Hawks , on the other hand, were a Jekyll-and-Hyde outfit from tip to buzzer during the regular season. One game they'd look like a defensive dynamo, with Dennis Schroder pestering point guards, Dwight Howard dominating the paint and Kent Bazemore and Thabo Sefolosha patrolling the wings. The next, they might forget how to score en route to a seven-game skid—of which they had two in 2016-17. Good luck doing that four times in seven games. West Quarterfinals: No. 1 Golden State Warriors vs. No. 8 Portland Trail Blazers It's easy to forget, what with how the 2016 Finals turned out, but the Golden State Warriors got a bit of a scare from the Portland Trail Blazers in Round 2 last spring. Stephen Curry 's return from a knee injury after missing the first three contests didn't stop the Blazers from finishing within three scores of the Warriors in Games 4 and 5. The Blazers' home-court edge at the Moda Center should make this matchup interesting, too. But nothing compares to the roar of Oracle Arena, and without Nurkic ready for the start of the series in Oakland, the Dubs' massive advantages in talent, experience and execution could leave the Blazers gasping for air from the get-go. West Quarterfinals: No. 2 San Antonio Spurs vs. No. 7 Memphis Grizzlies Forget the San Antonio Spurs ' first-round sweep of the Memphis Grizzlies from last spring—or any of the three other postseason meetings between these two teams, for that matter. Tim Duncan, who played a pivotal part in each of those series, has since retired. The Grizzlies, for the most part, have gotten all their top players back, after wheezing into the 2016 postseason with what few healthy bodies they could find. David Fizdale, Memphis' first-year head coach, was nowhere near the team's top job for any of them. His Grizzlies still grit and grind ( top 10 in defensive rating and defensive rebound percentage, bottom three in pace), but also beat you from behind the three-point line. While far from elite in that regard, Memphis' move toward the middle in long-range attempts, makes and percentage counts as significant progress from a club that was perennially allergic to those looks. Instead, the Klaw will be free to feast on Mike Conley defensively and send the Spurs into the second round without much more of a fight than last year. West Quarterfinals: No. 3 Houston Rockets vs. No. 6 Oklahoma City Thunder By the time the Houston Rockets and Oklahoma City Thunder come to blows, the media will have already cast their MVP ballots...not that a playoff matchup between the award's top two contenders will necessarily change anything. Russell Westbrook 's historic season, in terms of triple-doubles and usage, has held together a supporting cast in OKC that, while replete with helpful role players, lacks a clear second scoring option. The same could technically be said for James Harden in Houston, though that pertains more to how many other scorers the Rockets have—between Eric Gordon, Ryan Anderson, Lou Williams and Trevor Ariza—than to how few Westbrook has beneath his wings. West Quarterfinals: No. 4 Los Angeles Clippers vs. No. 5 Utah Jazz It's difficult enough to figure out what the Los Angeles Clippers and Utah Jazz will look like in the playoffs, let alone how they might match up. Both teams were banged up at different points and to different extents during their season series, which L.A. claimed 3-1. The Clippers are mostly healthy now that Chris Paul and Blake Griffin are back in the flow. But those two superstars are always at risk for further injury, and Austin Rivers' bad hamstring could hamper their bench if he's not ready to play. East Semifinals: Boston Celtics vs. Washington Wizards The basketball world needs—nay, The Boston Celtics will leave behind one perimeter-oriented foe in Chicago for another in D.C. There will be no place for Thomas to hide on defense against the Washington Wizards, not with the threat Porter has become. Nor can a deep Boston team count on taking advantage of Washington's second unit now that Brandon Jennings and Bojan Bogdanovic have settled in as legitimate threats off the bench. Boston, meanwhile, started off the IT3 era with back-to-back first-round ousters. A trip to the second round, with a team still lacking the proper support for its diminutive star, might be the ceiling for these C's. East Semifinals: Cleveland Cavaliers vs. Toronto Raptors For the second year running, the Cleveland Cavaliers are slated for a rematch of the previous season's conference finals. As was the case against the Atlanta Hawks, the Cavs could be in for an identical outcome. That's not the worst news for the Toronto Raptors. Unlike the Hawks, they managed to take two games from Cleveland, both at the Air Canada Centre. The deadline additions of Ibaka and Tucker should up Toronto's overall quotient of defensive toughness just enough to throw off the Cavaliers' offensive machine, if not gum it up to some extent. West Semifinals: Golden State Warriors vs Los Angeles Clippers To some degree, the Los Angeles Clippers may be responsible for the Golden State Warriors' historic run. They were the last team to beat the Dubs in a Western Conference series—when L.A. survived a seven-game, first-round slugfest in 2014—and may have contributed to then-head coach Mark Jackson's demise. Tales of Ty Lue, then a Clippers assistant, taunting Golden State in the Staples Center hallway have been intertwined through the lore of what turned the Warriors into the juggernaut they have become.  West Semifinals: San Antonio Spurs vs. Houston Rockets A series between the San Antonio Spurs and Houston Rockets has the makings of a nip-and-tuck affair. Their four regular-season meetings were decided by a The Spurs prevailed in three of the four, thanks in no small part to Leonard. He averaged 28.5 points per game against Houston and had one of the sequences of the season when he hit a go-ahead three on one end and blocked Harden on the other. Eastern Conference Finals: Cleveland Cavaliers vs. Washington Wizards Of all the teams in the East, the Washington Wizards might be the only one that could go shot for shot with the Cleveland Cavaliers. They did that once during an overtime loss to the Cavs in February and again during a double-digit win in Cleveland in late March. Irving can't rest on Wall or Beal. James can't take it easy with Porter ready to burn all comers from the perimeter. Marcin Gortat and Markieff Morris aren't exactly juggernauts inside, but they won't shy away from playing a physical game with Love and Tristan Thompson. Bad luck aside, can the Wizards keep up with a Cleveland team that finished among the top three in three-point makes, attempts and percentage? Maybe for a handful of games, but not enough to keep the Cavs from cruising to their third straight Eastern Conference crown. Western Conference Finals: Golden State Warriors vs. San Antonio Spurs It's difficult to deduce much about a Warriors-Spurs matchup from their regular-season series. San Antonio took two out of three, but each result came with a serious caveat. Their first meeting, a 129-100 Spurs wipeout in Oakland, was also the first game of the season and, thus, Golden State's first meaningful outing with Durant on its side. NBA Finals: Golden State Warriors vs. Cleveland Cavaliers How would the 2016 Finals have turned out had Durant been on the Warriors? Would cold streaks from Curry and Klay Thompson down the stretch of Game 7 have cost them the title with another shotmaker, in Durant, on the court? Would the series have even gone that long had KD been around to cover for Green's absence in Game 5? We'll never know for sure, but a Finals three-peat—the first in NBA history—between Golden State and Cleveland could offer some hints. Cleveland's only hope is to make the Dubs play a grinding style at a snail's pace while exploiting Golden State's lack of size inside. That strategy could keep the series competitive, but at some point, the numbers game figures to tilt too far in the Warriors' favor for the Cavs to overcome.  Hollywood Hoops

16 of 16

Tony Dejak/Associated Press

How would the 2016 Finals have turned out had Durant been on the Warriors? Would cold streaks from Curry and Klay Thompson down the stretch of Game 7 have cost them the title with another shotmaker, in Durant, on the court? Would the series have even gone that long had KD been around to cover for Green's absence in Game 5?

We'll never know for sure, but a Finals three-peat—the first in NBA history—between Golden State and Cleveland could offer some hints.

Durant is no stranger to James in the Finals. In 2012, KD's Thunder beat LBJ's Miami Heat in Game 1 of the championship series before dropping four straight.

While Durant gives Golden State another devastating two-way weapon it didn't have a year ago, James' Cavaliers won't exactly be short on reinforcements, either. Since sneaking past the Warriors by way of James' block, Irving's shot and Love's defense on Curry, Cleveland has added Korver, Deron Williams and Derrick Williams to its stockpile of gifted contributors.

The Cavs have the firepower to stay within arm's reach of the Warriors' offensive juggernaut. But outgunning Golden State over the course of seven games is an almost impossible proposition—even more so after Cleveland piled minutes on to James' plate during the regular season. Where the Cavaliers can ill-afford to sit him without collapsing, the Warriors have four All-Stars around whom they can fashion effective lineups.

Cleveland's only hope is to make the Dubs play a grinding style at a snail's pace while exploiting Golden State's lack of size inside. That strategy could keep the series competitive, but at some point, the numbers game figures to tilt too far in the Warriors' favor for the Cavs to overcome.

Prediction: Warriors in 7

All stats via NBA.com and Basketball Reference unless otherwise noted and are current through Wednesday, April 12.

Josh Martin covers the NBA for Bleacher Report. Follow him on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, and listen to his Hollywood Hoops podcast with B/R Lakers lead writer Eric Pincus.