Saving the Easter bunnies of the Brecks
Saving the Easter bunnies of the Brecks
n a lazy afternoon in the Brecklands, rabbits scuttle out of their warrens and dart about in the crisp Spring sunshine. As they stretch themselves out to soak up the rays or munch the nearest patch of grass, they keep one eye open and listen out with ears erect, like soldiers on parade. The Breckland rabbit is distinct from our native species – chocolate versions of which many of us will be sinking our teeth into today, as we celebrate Easter Sunday. This particular bunny is more compact and possesses thick fur to protect it against the cold winters of the Brecks - a 100 hectare stretch of ancient heathland occupying the border between Norfolk and Suffolk, which boasts a micro-climate all of its own and is famed for warm summers and hard frosts. t may sound strange to some who regard the rabbit as pestilent gnawer of cabbage beds and uprooter of trees, but great responsibility rests on these tiny twitching haunches and white bob tails. This is a sparse landscape and one that has been shaped by rabbits. After first being introduced by the Romans – and then increased under the Normans – an unseen spaghetti junction of warrens snakes through the poor sandy soil here. For centuries, the residents of these warrens were used to provide fur and meat to clothe and feed Britain’s burgeoning population. By the mid 19th century “warrening”, as this cottage industry was known, was at its peak with tens of thousands of rabbits dispatched to London every week. y the Second World War, however, the little mammals had lost their value and were then devastated by the 1953 myxomatosis outbreak, which wiped out 99 per cent of Britain’s rabbit population in a single year. The warrens of the Brecks began to empty, and a rare and vital eco-system of plants, birds and insects, which depended on the rabbit for survival, started to wither and die. Now, Natural England has chosen saving the rabbits of the Brecks as a key goal of its new £4.6m Back from the Brink project, which aims to rescue some 200 of the country’s rarest flora and fauna from extinction . The scheme follows a major report published last year that warned that one in 10 UK wildlife species are threatened with extinction, with the numbers of our most endangered breeds having plummeted by two thirds since the 1970s. Back From the Brink will focus on seven main areas, including the Brecks. It is the first ever coordinated countrywide initiative to safeguard against extinction, and involves landowners and charities across Britain. “Lots are iconic species that people in these areas recognised as special and unique to them,” says Karen Kramerwilson of Natural England as we stride out over the Brecks, flushing out skylarks as we go. “All are predicted to go extinct within the next few years.” The Breckland rabbit is deemed so vital because of the work it does in chomping the grass and turning over the sandy soil. As a result, rare and wonderfully-named flowers and plants have sprung up, some of which are entirely unique to this part of the country. here are perennial knawels, starry breck lichen, Spanish catchfly and rare spring sedge. These, in turn, provide nourishment for insects like the grey-carpet moth and five banded tailed digger wasp. The heathland also sustains adders and common lizards, nightjar, stone curlew and woodlark. “What a lot of these things have in common is the need for open, bare ground,” says Kramerwilson. “And that’s where the rabbits come in. In the same way that pollinators provide a service for crops and wildflowers, rabbits are doing the same thing for invertebrates and rare plants.” We are walking over a heath called East Wretham, one of the better places these days to spot Breckland rabbits but still an area that has seen a steady decline. In nearby Weeting Heath, there has been a 79 per cent fall in rabbit numbers over the past 20 years. In 2001, 1,100 rabbits were counted by a summer warden. Last year it was 20. Myxomatosis remains a threat. So too a virus called Rabbit Haemorrhagic Disease (RHD), which first spread through Britain in 1992 after originating from the domestic rabbit and has, in the past year, mutated into a deadly new strain. Unlike the terribly cruel effects of myxomatosis, where infected rabbits stagger around blind and in a zombified state, the impact of RHD is largely unknown, as the rabbits die in their burrows. Matt Blissett, who is Brecks reserve manager for the Norfolk Wildlife Trust, says the new strain has also started to infect hares. “You go on for a few years and then suddenly think – ‘hang on a minute? Where have all the rabbits gone?’” he adds. The Brecks project will cost £500,000 and no doubt some will balk at spending such a sizeable sum on assisting an animal that, despite its cuteness, is blamed for causing £100m damage a year to crops and is officially classed by the Government as a pest. n fact, the entirety of England and Wales (with the exception of the City of London and Isles of Scilly) is officially designated a rabbit clearance area under the Pests Act of 1954, with the onus placed on the landowner to keep the population under control. In spite of its cuteness and association with Easter – often dubiously traced back to Pagan fertility rituals but more likely a German tradition of the 1700s – Blissett admits the rabbit has something of an “image problem”. By means of defence he points to a verdant crop field bordering the heath, which has had rabbit nets placed under the fences and been left entirely unsullied. Key to the new project – and the Back from the Brink scheme as a whole – is recruiting new conservation volunteers to undertake rabbit counts in order to fully understand the scale of the decline across the Brecks. Kramerwilson explains they will also be looking at creating banks and mown areas of ground, where the rabbits can easily build warrens. A plan is in place to develop rabbit hides and build piles of shrub and hedge clippings, which have already been placed around the Brecks to provide shelter to existing populations and encourage them to expand. The warren is home to a complex society, one Kramerwilson says we are only just beginning to understand. As a result, moving populations to new areas where they might breed like, well rabbits, is esaier said than done. “It is actually a pretty complicated social structure,” she says. “An awful lot of labour would go into replicating what a rabbit does in its life cycle.” As we are speaking, the sun is swallowed up by the clouds and one-by-one the Breckland rabbits slip back into their burrows. Soon we are left contemplating an empty field strewn with holes. The land the rabbits left behind.

By the Second World War, however, the little mammals had lost their value and were then devastated by the 1953 myxomatosis outbreak, which wiped out 99 per cent of Britain’s rabbit population in a single year. The warrens of the Brecks began to empty, and a rare and vital eco-system of plants, birds and insects, which depended on the rabbit for survival, started to wither and die.

Now, Natural England has chosen saving the rabbits of the Brecks as a key goal of its new £4.6m Back from the Brink project, which aims to rescue some 200 of the country’s rarest flora and fauna from extinction.

The scheme follows a major report published last year that warned that one in 10 UK wildlife species are threatened with extinction, with the numbers of our most endangered breeds having plummeted by two thirds since the 1970s.

Back From the Brink will focus on seven main areas, including the Brecks. It is the first ever coordinated countrywide initiative to safeguard against extinction, and involves landowners and charities across Britain.

“Lots are iconic species that people in these areas recognised as special and unique to them,” says Karen Kramerwilson of Natural England as we stride out over the Brecks, flushing out skylarks as we go. “All are predicted to go extinct within the next few years.”

The Breckland rabbit is deemed so vital because of the work it does in chomping the grass and turning over the sandy soil. As a result, rare and wonderfully-named flowers and plants have sprung up, some of which are entirely unique to this part of the country.