16 killed in Sri Lankan 'rubbish mountain' collapse
Collapsed rubbish dump kills 16 in Sri Lanka


A massive mound of rubbish has killed at least 16 people including four children and displaced more than 600 after it collapsed on their homes in Sri Lanka on Friday night.

The estimated 300-foot dump collapsed after flames engulfed it late on Friday and witnesses said around 100 houses could have been buried.

The tragedy occurred near Sri Lanka's capital Colombo during festivities to mark the local new year.

The site had been used to dump Colombo's garbage for the past few years as authorities worked to improve the capital.

However, residents living in tiny homes in the area had been protesting against the dump and claimed that it was a health hazard.

Scroll down for video

Sri Lankan military personnel stand among damaged homes at the site of a collapsed rubbish dump near Colombo. The death toll from the collapsed rubbish mountain rose to 16 today

A Sri Lankan woman who lost her family members in a garbage dump collapse mourns in Meetotamulla, on the outskirts of Colombo, Sri Lanka toady

A general view of debris and rubble after a garbage mountain collapsed in Colombo, Sri Lanka on Friday night. Local residents had protested that the dump was a health hazard

Four people were rescued from underneath the mound, but it was unclear whether any others were buried, said military spokesman Roshan Seneviratne after soldiers searched the site.

Mr Seneviratne said that 625 people whose homes were either destroyed or under threat were being housed in nearby schools.

Sri Lankan military personnel stand among damaged homes at the site of a collapsed rubbish dump in Colombo. Rescuers searched for survivors after 145 homes were destroyed. At least 16 people have been killed

The Disaster Management Center said at least 12 other people were injured in the incident, which happened on Friday night in Meetotamulla, near Colombo.

'We heard a massive sound. It was like thunder. Tiles in our house got cracked. Black water started coming in,' said Kularathna, who lives near the dump.

'We tried to get out but we were trapped inside. We shouted for help and were rescued later.'

Another resident, Mohamed, said three of his neighbours were missing and estimated that more than 100 people could have been buried.

Rescue operations continued today with soldiers using heavy equipment to remove the rubbish.

Police said about 145 houses had been damaged, but they did not say how many had been buried.

Residents of the area, mostly living in shanties, have been demanding the removal of the dump saying it was causing health issues. The government had planned to remove it soon under an infrastructure plan.

Disaster dump: At least 16 people, including four children and teenagers have been killed after a 300ft rubbish dump collapsed on nearby houses as the country celebrated its new year

Military rescue workers recover the body of a man in the rescue operations at the site of a collapsed rubbish dump outside Colombo, Sri Lanka