Farhan-Ranveer's Funny Race, SRK's Promise To Acid Attack Survivors And More From Ent World
Farhan-Ranveer's Funny Race, SRK's Promise To Acid Attack Survivors And More From Ent World
Farhan-Ranveer's Funny Race, SRK's Promise To Acid Attack Survivors And More From Ent World 1. SRK Wins Hearts Again , Promises To Help Acid Attack Survivors For The Rest Of His Life During the one on one interview session, SRK revealed how he is looking forward to helping acid attack survivor for rest of his life.Talking about the same, he added that he would like Suhana to follow his footsteps and do the same. 2. 'Chikha' Ranveer Singh Posts A Hilarious Video Of His Neck To Neck Race With 'Milkha' Farhan MILKHA VS CHHILKA 😂 @FarOutAkhtar A post shared by Ranveer Singh (@ranveersingh) on Apr 13, 2017 at 9:40am PDT   In the latest video that Ranveer has posted on Instagram, his chemistry with Farhan Akhtar is something that's absolutely funny! 'Chilkha' (Peel in English) had a neck to neck running competition with Milkha Farhan Akhtar and the result was epic! Without further ado, hit play now! 3. Farhan Akhtar, Kamal Haasan And Other Stars Strongly Condemn Heckling Of CRPF Jawans In Kashmir Reacting to this shocking incident, many from the film fraternity have strongly reacted and expressed their displeasure on the same. The list includes actors like Farhan Akhtar, Anupam Kher and Randeep Hooda who have strongly condemned the incident. 4. Sonam Kapoor Reveals That She Will Be Attending National Awards With Father Anil As Her Date Sonam was quoted in a report saying, "My dad will accompany me as my date. I remember, for Gandhi My Father, we had to go a day before for the rehearsals and I had gone on stage with him. Dad got the best actor award for Pukar (2000). I remember that we all went as a family to collect that award. If I attend this year, I am obviously taking my family with me. I hope my Neerja director Ram (Madhvani) will be also there. All credit goes to him." 5. Randeep Hooda Made The Most Sensible Comments On Workplace Harassment And It's A Must-Read! Randeep was quoted in a report saying, “It surprises me how in today’s day and age, women fall prey to sexual harassment at the work place. Being in a position of power does not give men the authority to prey on someone for their own pleasure. Ditto, the women. Women who feel violated should definitely stand up for themselves without worrying about the consequences of voicing their concern. Only a woman can help herself and men should be warned that now, with this being discussed openly, they can no longer get away with it.”

1. SRK Wins Hearts Again, Promises To Help Acid Attack Survivors For The Rest Of His Life

Twitter

During the one on one interview session, SRK revealed how he is looking forward to helping acid attack survivor for rest of his life.Talking about the same, he added that he would like Suhana to follow his footsteps and do the same.

2.'Chikha' Ranveer Singh Posts A Hilarious Video Of His Neck To Neck Race With 'Milkha' Farhan

MILKHA VS CHHILKA 😂 @FarOutAkhtar A post shared by Ranveer Singh (@ranveersingh) on Apr 13, 2017 at 9:40am PDT

In the latest video that Ranveer has posted on Instagram, his chemistry with Farhan Akhtar is something that's absolutely funny! 'Chilkha' (Peel in English) had a neck to neck running competition with Milkha Farhan Akhtar and the result was epic! Without further ado, hit play now!

3. Farhan Akhtar, Kamal Haasan And Other Stars Strongly Condemn Heckling Of CRPF Jawans In Kashmir

Reacting to this shocking incident, many from the film fraternity have strongly reacted and expressed their displeasure on the same. The list includes actors like Farhan Akhtar, Anupam Kher and Randeep Hooda who have strongly condemned the incident.

4. Sonam Kapoor Reveals That She Will Be Attending National Awards With Father Anil As Her Date

Sonam was quoted in a report saying, "My dad will accompany me as my date. I remember, for Gandhi My Father, we had to go a day before for the rehearsals and I had gone on stage with him. Dad got the best actor award for Pukar (2000). I remember that we all went as a family to collect that award. If I attend this year, I am obviously taking my family with me. I hope my Neerja director Ram (Madhvani) will be also there. All credit goes to him."

5. Randeep Hooda Made The Most Sensible Comments On Workplace Harassment And It's A Must-Read!

Randeep was quoted in a report saying, “It surprises me how in today’s day and age, women fall prey to sexual harassment at the work place. Being in a position of power does not give men the authority to prey on someone for their own pleasure. Ditto, the women. Women who feel violated should definitely stand up for themselves without worrying about the consequences of voicing their concern. Only a woman can help herself and men should be warned that now, with this being discussed openly, they can no longer get away with it.”