Don't Panic: 7 Things To Do After Getting Fired
Don't Panic: 7 Things To Do After Getting Fired
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Jean Chatzky       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. (Photo courtesy of Pexels) “I always talk about getting fired from , because I feel like people…want to speak euphemistically about it,” says Rene Syler, former co-host of CBS News' The Early Show, author and now woman behind the brand, Good Enough Mother. She doesn’t tell people she was let go or laid off. Instead, she says…“I was fired! Fired, fired, fired, fired, fired.” She gets candid about her public exit — and the importance of owning it — on HerMoney podcast . . (And I’m speaking from experience.) You lose your job, you lose your paycheck, and — in some cases — you can lose yourself. But this difficult time also presents the opportunity to flex your resiliency muscle. For example, both Syler and I used our exits as entrances into entrepreneurship. She turned her book “Good-Enough Mother: The Perfectly Imperfect Book of Parenting” into a full-time brand, while, similarly, I started my own company for the number of different gigs I work on today. 6 Honest Mistakes That Will Get You Fired Today, the average person changes jobs 12 times over the course of a career, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. There's a pretty good chance at least one of your changes won't be by choice. Here's what to do next. “Everyone deserves a grieving period,” says Kate Kemp, Monster contributor and author of the series “Life After Layoffs.” “For the first few days, don’t contact anyone for new work, you’re going to feel rejected and desperate and it’s how you’re going to come off when reaching out. [It's better to be] in a position of confidence and power.” But only allow yourself a few days to mourn, she says, “You don’t want to wallow either.” Ideally you’ll have some foresight before getting laid off or fired, but even if you don’t — and even if you’re comfortable in your job now — you should know the severance package at your company and the average for your industry. Then — if and when the time come — negotiate your exit by asking for as much severance as you think you're due as well as an extension for your health benefits. If you can't voice it yourself, consider hiring an employment attorney to say it for you. This attorney can also review any papers an ex-employer is asking you to sign (i.e. a non-disclosure or a non-compete — and note, do not sign at the point of termination, take the time to read/think it over). And most importantly, don’t resign. If you get asked to and you comply, it can disqualify you from collecting unemployment. Don’t go without health coverage and review your retirement options. First, talk to your former employer about extending your health insurance benefit for up to 18 months under COBRA (the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act) — you have 60 days after your coverage lapses to opt in — or start shopping for your own policy on healthcare.gov. Your new employment status allows for you to enroll even if it's not open enrollment time. As for retirement, you generally have three options for your 401(k) or other nestegg: you can leave it be (if the balance is $5,000 or more), roll it into a new employer’s plan (if allowed) or roll it into an IRA. (There is a fourth option, but it should be avoided: you could cash out, but in doing so, you’d pay income taxes at your current rate, a 10 percent penalty and you’d lose out on that money for retirement.) “I would love to sit here across from you and tell you I have regrouped and I have it all figured out and that everything’s great and the money is rolling in and I can’t get out of the way of it, but that’s just not true,” says Syler. After saying goodbye to a regular paycheck, you need to revisit your budget — especially if you don’t know how long you’ll be unemployed and/or your income becomes inconsistent. Start by surveying what’s coming in and how much you have in liquid, accessible savings (i.e. your emergency fund), and then compare that to how much you spend every month. Divide your spending into fixed, necessary expenses (e.g. housing, student loans, car payment, insurance, groceries) and variable unnecessary ones (e.g. eating out, clothing, travel). Cut back on the latter. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

“I always talk about getting fired from , because I feel like people…want to speak euphemistically about it,” says Rene Syler, former co-host of CBS News' The Early Show, author and now woman behind the brand, Good Enough Mother. She doesn’t tell people she was let go or laid off. Instead, she says…“I was fired! Fired, fired, fired, fired, fired.” She gets candid about her public exit — and the importance of owning it — on HerMoney podcast.

Let’s face it: getting fired sucks . (And I’m speaking from experience.) You lose your job, you lose your paycheck, and — in some cases — you can lose yourself. But this difficult time also presents the opportunity to flex your resiliency muscle. For example, both Syler and I used our exits as entrances into entrepreneurship. She turned her book “Good-Enough Mother: The Perfectly Imperfect Book of Parenting” into a full-time brand, while, similarly, I started my own company for the number of different gigs I work on today.

Today, the average person changes jobs 12 times over the course of a career, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. There's a pretty good chance at least one of your changes won't be by choice. Here's what to do next.

1. Go through your stages of grief

“Everyone deserves a grieving period,” says Kate Kemp, Monster contributor and author of the series “Life After Layoffs.” “For the first few days, don’t contact anyone for new work, you’re going to feel rejected and desperate and it’s how you’re going to come off when reaching out. [It's better to be] in a position of confidence and power.” But only allow yourself a few days to mourn, she says, “You don’t want to wallow either.”

2. Say "sayonara" with severance.

Ideally you’ll have some foresight before getting laid off or fired, but even if you don’t — and even if you’re comfortable in your job now — you should know the severance package at your company and the average for your industry. Then — if and when the time come — negotiate your exit by asking for as much severance as you think you're due as well as an extension for your health benefits. If you can't voice it yourself, consider hiring an employment attorney to say it for you. This attorney can also review any papers an ex-employer is asking you to sign (i.e. a non-disclosure or a non-compete — and note, do not sign at the point of termination, take the time to read/think it over). And most importantly, don’t resign. If you get asked to and you comply, it can disqualify you from collecting unemployment.

3. Take your benefits to go.

Don’t go without health coverage and review your retirement options. First, talk to your former employer about extending your health insurance benefit for up to 18 months under COBRA (the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act) — you have 60 days after your coverage lapses to opt in — or start shopping for your own policy on healthcare.gov. Your new employment status allows for you to enroll even if it's not open enrollment time. As for retirement, you generally have three options for your 401(k) or other nestegg: you can leave it be (if the balance is $5,000 or more), roll it into a new employer’s plan (if allowed) or roll it into an IRA. (There is a fourth option, but it should be avoided: you could cash out, but in doing so, you’d pay income taxes at your current rate, a 10 percent penalty and you’d lose out on that money for retirement.)

4. Say hello to a new budget.

“I would love to sit here across from you and tell you I have regrouped and I have it all figured out and that everything’s great and the money is rolling in and I can’t get out of the way of it, but that’s just not true,” says Syler. After saying goodbye to a regular paycheck, you need to revisit your budget — especially if you don’t know how long you’ll be unemployed and/or your income becomes inconsistent. Start by surveying what’s coming in and how much you have in liquid, accessible savings (i.e. your emergency fund), and then compare that to how much you spend every month. Divide your spending into fixed, necessary expenses (e.g. housing, student loans, car payment, insurance, groceries) and variable unnecessary ones (e.g. eating out, clothing, travel). Cut back on the latter.