Rare white wolf in Yellowstone park euthanized over injuries
Rare white wolf in Yellowstone park euthanized over injuries
Shares                One of only three white wolves roaming Yellowstone National Park has been put down by park staff after it was found with severe injuries. P.J. White of the National Park Service says hikers found the female wolf Tuesday on the north side of the park. White says the wolf was in shock and dying, leading to the decision to euthanize it and investigate what caused the injuries. The nature of the animal's injuries could not immediately be determined. The predator was one of three known white wolves in the park. It had lived to 12 years old, twice the age of an average wolf in the park, and was one of the most recognizable and sought after to view and photograph by park visitors. Shares                  Rare white wolf in Yellowstone park euthanized over injuries   North Korea rolls out missiles, other weaponry at parade   Aaron Hernandez found not guilty in double murder case   Boston to mark 4th anniversary of deadly marathon bombing   Fugitive who mailed manifesto to Trump captured in Wisconsin   911 calls of San Bernardino school shooting capture panic and fear   Trump White House will not make visitor logs public   10 infants in California intensive care test unit positive for antibiotic resistant superbug   Justice Department drops North Carolina LGBT rights lawsuit   Russia, Iran and Syria issue warning to US   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   'If you're alive, raise your hand' desperate rescuer said in Pulse nightclub   Lawyer: Little money involved in Trump sanctuary order   Report on East Coast prep school details decades of sexual misconduct   Daughter of NYC cop killed in 9/11 attacks joins NYPD   Fired officers had previously arrested same man   New leak suggests NSA penetrated Mideast banking networks   Apple receives permit to test self-driving cars   Funeral arrangements set for Steelers' chairman Dan Rooney   Oklahoma 'witch' gets life terms for terrorizing grandchild   Reporter's notebook: Hunt for catfish who nearly destroyed NBA player, social media star's lives   How this woman catfished an NBA star and an aspiring model   Family of ex-teacher accused of kidnapping teen says they forgive him   Navy investigating California SEAL's porn-movie moonlighting   Pope speaks of humanity's "shame" in Good Friday procession   Bellagio catches fire, causing closure of Las Vegas Strip   Prince Harry spotted visiting Meghan Markle in Toronto   Paul Simon's oceanfront home in danger of slip sliding away

One of only three white wolves roaming Yellowstone National Park has been put down by park staff after it was found with severe injuries.

P.J. White of the National Park Service says hikers found the female wolf Tuesday on the north side of the park.

White says the wolf was in shock and dying, leading to the decision to euthanize it and investigate what caused the injuries. The nature of the animal's injuries could not immediately be determined.

The predator was one of three known white wolves in the park.

It had lived to 12 years old, twice the age of an average wolf in the park, and was one of the most recognizable and sought after to view and photograph by park visitors.