Tyrese Issues Apology After Getting Dragged for ‘Promiscuous Women’ Comments
Tyrese Issues Apology After Getting Dragged for ‘Promiscuous Women’ Comments
Tyrese ignited the wrath of social media this week after making controversial comments about “overly aggressive promiscuous women.” And it appears the 38-year-old actor is now trying to clean up the mess. During a promotional tour for his new film , Tyrese sat down with BET for an interview that included a controversial rant about the way women conduct themselves:  To absolutely no one’s surprise, the comments were immediately criticized on social media. Outspoken talkshow host Wendy Williams also blasted Tyrese, asking: “Who made him the moral police?” The backlash, which was apparently too much for the actor to handle, has led him to issue a public apology. My mother taught me better than this … lesson learned in life you will learn that It's not always "what" you say, it's the "how" we choose to say it. For the record I'm far from a misogynist, a male chauvinist or flat out mean … My intentions were there but my delivery fucking horrible … And clearly all the way off … And for that I sincerely apologize to all of the ladies […] I have never experienced what I am experiencing right now. - I've been getting dragged and feel the heat from my poor choice of words and approach to my messages, trust me. My mother taught me better than this..... lesson learned in life you will learn that It's not always "what" you say, it's the "how" we choose to say it. For the record I'm far from a misogynist, a male chauvinist or flat out mean..... My intentions were there but my delivery fucking horrible.... And clearly all the way off.... And for that I sincerely apologize to all of the ladies... Even after this apology.... Some may likely decide to NOT forgive me.... Time and consistency heals all wounds.... Although I've been consistently for years speaking on these topics and some of the same words in my message, I have never experienced what I am experiencing right now. - I've been getting dragged and feel the heat from my poor choice of words and approach to my messages, trust me..... Please accept this as my sincere apology for my poor choice of words - Shit gets real when it goes from a social media dragging to my own wife giving me the side eye and coming at me, even she's not happy with the way I've conducted myself.... it's crazy how non-public figures can say and do some really dumb shit and it will stay amongst your family and friends or local in your hood.... When you have been an entertainer for 15+ years the whole WORLD is literally watching you grow up & learn, bump your head, make mistakes and evolve as the world watches.... This is a real lesson learned... This is not just a regular IG post for me. I want to truly say that I'm sorry, I'm not APOLOGIZING in an effort to be politically correct, I apologize as a man first for the things that I've recently said about choices women have the right to make, for the terms that I've used and the way I've come across. I was raised to think and feel certain ways, and I'm learning new things that combat those messages. I am not perfect or all knowing, nor am I the one to claim to be. I've learned things through experience which I share, and through these last couple of weeks, I've learned a lot through this well deserved internet dragging...... This is about a man owning up to his actions, taking responsibility, recognizing how to do better, and actually doing better. Ladies you deserve better... A post shared by TYRESE (@tyrese) on Apr 14, 2017 at 2:34pm PDT Here's some inspirational words to keep the struggling entrepreneurs of our world encouraged -Every single person I know who is successful at what they do is successful because they love doing it. The biggest risk is not taking any risk… In a world that changing really quickly, the only strategy that is guaranteed to fail is not taking risks.” – Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook “The hardest part about being an entrepreneur is that you’ll fail ten times for every success.” – Adam Horwitz, Mobile Monopoly “The companies that I really admire the most are the ones that have a deep visceral understanding of why people use their service, and they figure out ways of making money that are completely consistent with how people are feeling and what they are doing at the time.” – Ben Silbermann, Pinterest “We led with our conviction rather than rational, because rational said it was impossible.” – Daniel Ek, Spotify "You can't get points TODAY for yesterday's game so don't rest on what's already been accomplished, everyday is a grind, everyday is a hustle" - Michael Jordan A post shared by TYRESE (@tyrese) on Apr 15, 2017 at 3:45am PDT Related 'Fate of the Furious' International Trailer Is the Most Furious Yet Future, Jeezy, Tyrese, and Usher Donated $25,000 Each to Support the UNCF 'Fast and Furious' Stars Pay Tribute to Paul Walker on 3rd Anniversary of Death The actor also acknowledged that not every woman was going to forgive him. And, as we can see from his Twitter mentions, he was absolutely right. Tyrese can keep his bullshit apology. I'm so tired of men like him who feel like they have the right to woman how they should look and act. Tyrese needs to talk less. Like literally keep that trap shut. He's only doing this because of F8. His apology isn't needed. We don't care. https://t.co/dBKihYzpbG I read Tyrese's apology on my timeline. I no longer follow him. The women bashing...smh Strange because WOMEN have been his CORE fan base. 🤔 @Tyrese He is feelin 🔥4opening his big fat mouth. He feels he can dissed women because he married a mutt WHATEVER!! Usaid it 1st apology or not So Tyrese has issued a public apology. Coming for black women in 2017 will actually end your career. We ain't playing anymore. Tyrese and his head ass apology has me irked. It's not just how you said it , it's WHAT you said man.... Does tyrese realize we don't need nor want his apology Reading Tyrese's half ass apology like.. pic.twitter.com/mzhf7nKZI9

Tyrese ignited the wrath of social media this week after making controversial comments about “overly aggressive promiscuous women.” And it appears the 38-year-old actor is now trying to clean up the mess.

During a promotional tour for his new film Fate of the Furious, Tyrese sat down with BET for an interview that included a controversial rant about the way women conduct themselves:

“I appreciate all the ladies out there that are still single, that are holding out. Don't settle. Don't settle. Though his message didn’t start out offensive, things quickly took a left turn. “I'm gonna tell you all right now, and this might be harsh: Sluts, skeezers, hoes, tramps and overly aggressive promiscuous women, they are never without a man because they don't have no standards. They ready to have sex with any and everything that want to have sex with them […] You have women that are active out in these streets, they going to lunches and dinners every night. Private planes, mega yachts, it's cracking. They're never without. However, it comes with a cost, you gonna put a lot of miles on yourself down there, come on."

To absolutely no one’s surprise, the comments were immediately criticized on social media. Outspoken talkshow host Wendy Williams also blasted Tyrese, asking: “Who made him the moral police?” The backlash, which was apparently too much for the actor to handle, has led him to issue a public apology.

My mother taught me better than this … lesson learned in life you will learn that It's not always "what" you say, it's the "how" we choose to say it. For the record I'm far from a misogynist, a male chauvinist or flat out mean … My intentions were there but my delivery fucking horrible … And clearly all the way off … And for that I sincerely apologize to all of the ladies […] I have never experienced what I am experiencing right now. - I've been getting dragged and feel the heat from my poor choice of words and approach to my messages, trust me.

The actor also acknowledged that not every woman was going to forgive him. And, as we can see from his Twitter mentions, he was absolutely right.

Tyrese can keep his bullshit apology. I'm so tired of men like him who feel like they have the right to woman how they should look and act. — Ᏸecca🥀 (@MJStarLover) April 15, 2017

Tyrese needs to talk less. Like literally keep that trap shut. He's only doing this because of F8. His apology isn't needed. We don't care. https://t.co/dBKihYzpbG — Ezinne (@nilegirl) April 15, 2017

I read Tyrese's apology on my timeline.

I no longer follow him.

The women bashing...smh

Strange because WOMEN have been his CORE fan base. 🤔 — Jennifer Coleman (@jenniferclmn) April 15, 2017

@Tyrese He is feelin 🔥4opening his big fat mouth. He feels he can dissed women because he married a mutt WHATEVER!! Usaid it 1st apology or not — Lboo (@GentlefemLboo) April 15, 2017

So Tyrese has issued a public apology. Coming for black women in 2017 will actually end your career. We ain't playing anymore. — Little One. (@petitetweeter_) April 15, 2017

Tyrese and his head ass apology has me irked. It's not just how you said it , it's WHAT you said man.... — Morena (@RoyalBesitos) April 15, 2017

Does tyrese realize we don't need nor want his apology — Jhourdi McFly (@AirJhourdi) April 15, 2017