April the Giraffe, an Internet Star, Gives Birth. Finally.
April the Giraffe, an Internet Star, Gives Birth. Finally.
April, a giraffe who became an internet sensation after her pregnancy was live-streamed from the rural New York hamlet where she lives, has finally given birth, ending months of speculation, anticipation and excitement for her online audience. The live stream from the Animal Adventure Park in Harpursville, N.Y., which began during the winter, drew nearly five million viewers a day at its peak. Some viewers kept checking back, even as the period during which April was expected to give birth came and went. Others became frustrated, with a few theorizing that because she had not gone into labor, she was not actually pregnant. But as April paced in her pen on Saturday, two hooves began to appear. And after a few hours, a newly born giraffe was lying on the floor, glancing around, looking as confused and bewildered as any newborn. The calf tried to stand a few times but was unable. An hour later, it was on its feet, walking around gingerly. It was not immediately known whether the calf was male or female. All is well! #aprilandherbaby  pic.twitter.com/8QA0JtQbjA  At its peak, the live stream drew a flood of media coverage and attention for Harpursville, a hamlet of 3,500 about three hours northwest of New York City. The question now is whether that attention will translate into a tangible economic boost for the area, part of a region known as the Southern Tier that was once a manufacturing powerhouse but that has struggled financially in recent years . “There’s nothing ever that’s been of this magnitude in our rural town,” said Gordy Carroll, a councilman in Colesville, the town that includes Harpursville. “We are anxiously awaiting to see and definitely expecting a very big summer.” Advertisement Already, there were signs that April’s fame was reverberating in the area. One family recently arrived at the park after driving from Ohio, only to find it closed for the winter, said Mr. Carroll, who added that he had heard about a dozen similar stories. A hotel in nearby Binghamton has booked more than 100 reservations for a package that includes admission to the animal park when it reopens in May, according to Jennifer Conway, the president and chief executive of the Greater Binghamton Chamber of Commerce. Multiple interstate highways pass through the area, and Ms. Conway said a display to alert tourists to April’s presence was being planned for a rest stop on Interstate 81. “We’re going to embrace them as a community,” she said. “You only get this once in a lifetime.” Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy The park and Harpursville, which has only a couple of convenience stores and restaurants, are working on their ability to handle crowds. “There’s not a stop light in the entire town,” Mr. Carroll said. April’s handlers initially predicted that the birth would come between mid-January and mid-February, but then the pregnancy stretched on. So did the live stream, which often showed April strolling in her pen rather uneventfully. Attention began to wane. But social media erupted with cheers on Saturday after April gave birth. “This is the best day ever,” wrote one person. “Congrats April the Giraffe,” wrote another , “You did it.” There will be a contest to name the calf, and April will begin to raise it, weaning it for six to 10 months, according to the park. Eventually, the baby giraffe, April’s fourth, will be moved to away to a separate facility. The father, Oliver, is not expected to be in the picture much. “Bulls (male giraffes) only really care about two things,” the park noted, “fighting and the unmentionable.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

April, a giraffe who became an internet sensation after her pregnancy was live-streamed from the rural New York hamlet where she lives, has finally given birth, ending months of speculation, anticipation and excitement for her online audience.

The live stream from the Animal Adventure Park in Harpursville, N.Y., which began during the winter, drew nearly five million viewers a day at its peak. Some viewers kept checking back, even as the period during which April was expected to give birth came and went. Others became frustrated, with a few theorizing that because she had not gone into labor, she was not actually pregnant.

But as April paced in her pen on Saturday, two hooves began to appear. And after a few hours, a newly born giraffe was lying on the floor, glancing around, looking as confused and bewildered as any newborn. The calf tried to stand a few times but was unable. An hour later, it was on its feet, walking around gingerly. It was not immediately known whether the calf was male or female.

At its peak, the live stream drew a flood of media coverage and attention for Harpursville, a hamlet of 3,500 about three hours northwest of New York City. The question now is whether that attention will translate into a tangible economic boost for the area, part of a region known as the Southern Tier that was once a manufacturing powerhouse but that has struggled financially in recent years.

“There’s nothing ever that’s been of this magnitude in our rural town,” said Gordy Carroll, a councilman in Colesville, the town that includes Harpursville. “We are anxiously awaiting to see and definitely expecting a very big summer.”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Already, there were signs that April’s fame was reverberating in the area. One family recently arrived at the park after driving from Ohio, only to find it closed for the winter, said Mr. Carroll, who added that he had heard about a dozen similar stories. A hotel in nearby Binghamton has booked more than 100 reservations for a package that includes admission to the animal park when it reopens in May, according to Jennifer Conway, the president and chief executive of the Greater Binghamton Chamber of Commerce.

Multiple interstate highways pass through the area, and Ms. Conway said a display to alert tourists to April’s presence was being planned for a rest stop on Interstate 81. “We’re going to embrace them as a community,” she said. “You only get this once in a lifetime.”

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The park and Harpursville, which has only a couple of convenience stores and restaurants, are working on their ability to handle crowds. “There’s not a stop light in the entire town,” Mr. Carroll said.



April’s handlers initially predicted that the birth would come between mid-January and mid-February, but then the pregnancy stretched on. So did the live stream, which often showed April strolling in her pen rather uneventfully. Attention began to wane.

But social media erupted with cheers on Saturday after April gave birth. “This is the best day ever,” wrote one person. “Congrats April the Giraffe,” wrote another, “You did it.”

There will be a contest to name the calf, and April will begin to raise it, weaning it for six to 10 months, according to the park. Eventually, the baby giraffe, April’s fourth, will be moved to away to a separate facility. The father, Oliver, is not expected to be in the picture much.

“Bulls (male giraffes) only really care about two things,” the park noted, “fighting and the unmentionable.”