Boston to mark 4th anniversary of deadly marathon bombing
Boston to mark 4th anniversary of deadly marathon bombing
Shares                Bostonians are marking the fourth anniversary of the deadly Boston Marathon attacks. Quiet remembrances have been planned Saturday to remember the victims. Three spectators were killed and more than 260 others wounded when two bombs planted near the finish line exploded on April 15, 2013, spraying shrapnel into the crowds. A Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer also was killed later while struggling with the bombers as they tried to steal his gun.   Bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in an ensuing standoff with police. His younger brother, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev , was convicted on federal charges and sentenced to death. The attacks have inspired several movies, including the Mark Wahlberg film "Patriots Day." On the eve of the anniversary, volunteers planted thousands of daffodils along the marathon course in solidarity. Shares                  Boston to mark 4th anniversary of deadly marathon bombing   East predictions: Experts' picks for Round 1   Retired NFL player accidentally hits, kills 3-year-old daughter while moving truck   Phil Jackson: Carmelo Anthony 'better off somewhere else'   Sources: Frustrated Kristaps Porzingis skips Knicks meetings   Celtics well aware that Bulls' Rajon Rondo steps up when it matters   NBA playoff Vegas power rankings   Tax Day protesters across US demand that Trump to release his tax returns   Judge halts Arkansas plan to execute 8 inmates in 11 days   US senators say food aid constraints delay help amid famine   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients

Bostonians are marking the fourth anniversary of the deadly Boston Marathon attacks.

Quiet remembrances have been planned Saturday to remember the victims. Three spectators were killed and more than 260 others wounded when two bombs planted near the finish line exploded on April 15, 2013, spraying shrapnel into the crowds.

A Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer also was killed later while struggling with the bombers as they tried to steal his gun.

Bomber Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed in an ensuing standoff with police. His younger brother, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was convicted on federal charges and sentenced to death.

The attacks have inspired several movies, including the Mark Wahlberg film "Patriots Day."

On the eve of the anniversary, volunteers planted thousands of daffodils along the marathon course in solidarity.