Trump To Be First President Since Reagan to Address NRA Forum

Trump To Be First President Since Reagan to Address NRA Forum // // // // // The National Rifle Association announced that President Trump will speak at the organization's annual leadership forum The NRA's Institute for Legislative Action's executive director Chris Cox made the announcement on Twitter on Friday. Honored to have @POTUS speak at the 2017 NRA-ILA Leadership Forum @NRA 's 146th Annual Meetings and Exhibits #MAGA  #NRAAM2017  #2A  pic.twitter.com/kUM0w7Hkj5 — Chris Cox (@ChrisCoxNRA) April 14, 2017 The president is scheduled to appear at the conference on April 28 in Atlanta, Ga. Trump was endorsed by the NRA during the presidential election and was praised for his repeated defense of the right to bear arms. He will be the first sitting president since Ronald Reagan to address the convention. At several stump speeches, he claimed that Hillary Clinton wanted "to repeal the Second Amendment." His eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., was seen as his father's top representative for pro-gun and outdoors groups. Trump Jr. was recently subject of speculation about a run for the New York governorship because of remarks he made at such a gun club. Several other pro-gun conservatives will speak at the NRA event, including Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, Sheriff David Clarke, Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), Col. Allen West [Ret.] and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas).

The National Rifle Association announced that President Trump will speak at the organization's annual leadership forum

The NRA's Institute for Legislative Action's executive director Chris Cox made the announcement on Twitter on Friday.

The president is scheduled to appear at the conference on April 28 in Atlanta, Ga.

Trump was endorsed by the NRA during the presidential election and was praised for his repeated defense of the right to bear arms.

He will be the first sitting president since Ronald Reagan to address the convention.

GoFundMe Page Seeks $15K for Green Beret's Family, Gets More Than $200K

Rob O'Neill Defends MOAB: 'You're Dealing With People Who Only Understand Force'

Hollywood Director: We Can Only Defeat ISIS With Love

At several stump speeches, he claimed that Hillary Clinton wanted "to repeal the Second Amendment."

His eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., was seen as his father's top representative for pro-gun and outdoors groups.

Trump Jr. was recently subject of speculation about a run for the New York governorship because of remarks he made at such a gun club.

Several other pro-gun conservatives will speak at the NRA event, including Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, Sheriff David Clarke, Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), Col. Allen West [Ret.] and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas).

RPT: DNC Email Urges AZ Supporters to 'Go Get in Jeff Flake's Grill' at Town Hall

'Truth Is First Casualty of War': GOP Rep. Skeptical Assad Carried Out Gas Attack

Report Calls Out Just How Much Time MSNBC's Maddow Spends on Trump & Russia