Afghanistan 'Mother of all bombs' ISIS death toll rises
Death toll from MOAB attack on IS in Afghanistan rises to 94


Afghan locals and children were left surveying the devastating aftermath caused by the 'Mother of all Bombs' in the village of Shadal bazar on Saturday, two days after America dropped the largest non-nuclear weapon ever used in combat by the U.S. military.

The death toll of the attack on Afghanistan rose to 94 ISIS members icluding four terrorist leaders, an Afghan official said.

Ataullah Khogyani, spokesman for the provincial governor in Nangarhar, said the number of Islamic State group dead was up from the 36 reported a day earlier and that no civilians were reported dead in the bombing.

A Ministry of Defense official said on Friday that the number of dead could rise as officials assessed the bomb site in Achin district.

Devastating aftermath: Afghan boys are seen walking with a donkey amid the rubble of shops in Shadal bazar in Achin district of Nangarhar province

An Afghan security official surveys the damage in Shadal bazar after the US military dropped a GBU-43 Massive Ordnance Air Blast (MOAB) bomb in Achin district of Nangarhar on Thursday

Destruction: Parts of the Achin district of Nangarhar province was left in shambles after bombing that killed at least 94

A Ministry of Defense official said on Friday that the number of dead could rise as officials assessed the bomb site in Achin district

The sheer power of the weapon produced a blast that can be felt miles away, largely because of its construction

'Fortunately, there is no report of civilians being killed in the attack,' Mr Khogyani said.

But the increased death toll in Nangarhar was announced as officials in southern Helmand province reported that at least 11 civilians were killed and one wounded in two roadside bomb blasts overnight.

The US attack on a tunnel complex in remote eastern Nangarhar province near the Pakistan border killed at least four IS group leaders, Mr Khogyani said.

He said a clearance operation to assess the site of the attack was continuing.

The strike using the Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb, or MOAB, known as the Mother Of All Bombs, was carried out Thursday against an Islamic State group tunnel complex carved into the mountains which Afghan forces had tried to assault repeatedly in recent weeks during fierce fighting in Nangarhar province.

On Saturday, former Afghan president Hamid Karzai criticized both the Afghan and US governments for the attack.

Addressing a gathering in the capital, Kabul, Mr Karzai said that allowing the US to carry out the bombing was 'a national treason' and an insult to Afghanistan.

Current President Ashraf Ghani's office said on Friday that there was 'close co-ordination' between the US military and the Afghan government on the operation, and they were careful to prevent any civilian casualties.

President Donald Trump called it a 'very, very successful mission' and some Afghan residents have welcomed the blast and even called for more.

Security police walks at the destroyed house after an operation in Asad Khil near the site of a U.S. bombing in the Achin district of Jalalabad, east of Kabul, Afghanistan

An Afghan security official holds a gun as he stands on top of piles of debris surveying the area

An Afghan woman is seen holding a flower as she walks over rubble left behind after the attack

The attack is the largest non-nuclear weapon ever used in combat by the American military. The US estimates 600-800 IS fighters are in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar

President Ashraf Ghani's (right) office said on Friday that there was 'close coordination' between the US military and Afghan government on the operation however former President Karzai criticized the bombings

Commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan General John Nicholson said the strike was, 'designed to minimize the risk to Afghan and U.S. Forces conducting clearing operations in the area while maximizing the destruction of ISIS-K fighters and facilities.'

The US estimates 600-800 IS fighters are in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar. America has concentrated on fighting them while also supporting Afghan forces against the Taliban. The US has more than 8,000 US troops in Afghanistan, training local forces and conducting counter-terrorism operations.

The U.S. fast-tracked the MOAB in 2003 for use in Operation Iraqi Freedom, but the Defense Department later decided that the enemy provided too little resistance to justify its deployment.

It was available to the Obama administration throughout the former president's entire two terms, but he never deployed it in combat.