Govt Bans BBC For 5 Years From All National Parks For Making 'Malicious' Film On Kaziranga
Govt Bans BBC For 5 Years From All National Parks For Making 'Malicious' Film On Kaziranga
Govt Bans BBC For 5 Years From All National Parks For Making 'Malicious' Film On Kaziranga The government has decided to ban BBC from all National Parks and Sanctuaries for portraying a negative, malicious and sensational image of India’s conservation success story. The documentary called “dark secrets” talks about the menace of poaching for the wildlife and has shown a flooded grassland of Kaziranga National Park in Assam. The ban has been imposed with immediate effect where BBC cannot make documentaries and film news reports in the country. The order was given by the ministry on April 10 and has extended this ban from tiger reserves to all the national parks and sanctuaries across the nation. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had earlier criticised the BBC for “grossly erroneous” reporting and recommended the blacklisting of the BBC’s South Asia correspondent Justin Rowlatt . The documentary reportedly highlights government’s “ruthless anti-poaching strategy” for the Kaziranga tiger reserve in Assam.

The government has decided to ban BBC from all National Parks and Sanctuaries for portraying a negative, malicious and sensational image of India’s conservation success story.

Reuters

The documentary called “dark secrets” talks about the menace of poaching for the wildlife and has shown a flooded grassland of Kaziranga National Park in Assam. The ban has been imposed with immediate effect where BBC cannot make documentaries and film news reports in the country. The order was given by the ministry on April 10 and has extended this ban from tiger reserves to all the national parks and sanctuaries across the nation.

The documentary was aired in February, explored what it called the “dark secrets” of Kaziranga and asked if the war on poaching has gone too far. It claimed that forest guards were given powers “to shoot and kill”.

Reuters

The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had earlier criticised the BBC for “grossly erroneous” reporting and recommended the blacklisting of the BBC’s South Asia correspondent Justin Rowlatt. The documentary reportedly highlights government’s “ruthless anti-poaching strategy” for the Kaziranga tiger reserve in Assam.

On February 27, the NTCA issued a memorandum that asked the wardens of chief wildlife sanctuaries in all tiger-range states and field directors of tiger reserves not to grant filming permission to the BBC for five years.

The government’s most recent order refers to the NTCA’s memorandum and addresses the ‘violation of terms and conditions of filming documentary by the BBC News, South Asia Bureau, New Delhi’. The government has reportedly examined the memorandum and stated that the script has been ‘deviated from the original version submitted to Ministry of External Affairs and NTCA.

The government has claimed that this has done an ‘irreparable damage to India’s reputation’ and has projected a negative, malicious and sensational portrayal of India’s conservation success story at Kaziranga Tiger Reserve.’

Reuters

BBC spokesperson told The Indian Express that “The authorities’ reaction to this report on an important global issue like the appropriate way to combat poaching is extremely disappointing. The programme was balanced, impartial and accurately reported what we found on arrival. It covered both the successes achieved through India’s conservation policies and the challenges, which includes the impact on communities living next to the parks. We approached the relevant government authorities to ensure their position was fully reflected but they declined to take part.”

Don't Miss 560 SHARES 5.6 K SHARES 109.7 K SHARES 31.7 K SHARES 24.1 K SHARES

The spokesperson said that Rowlatt’s “original online story is still available on the BBC website as is the radio version of the documentary”.

The film has claimed that more people are killed by forest guards than rhinos. In a BBC article introducing the film, it was shown that 23 people lost their lives compared to just 17 rhinos last year and only two intruders were prosecuted while 50 were shot dead since 2014.

Between 2000 and 2017, 17 poachers were shot dead inside Kaziranga while 68 rhinoceros were killed. Since the notification, the number of poachers who were shot became 59 while 103 rhinos poached between 2011 and 2016.