Fatal Easter dog treats: Five everyday foods that can poison your pooch



Fatal Easter dog treats: Five everyday foods that can poison your pooch

Posted

It can be hard not to succumb to puppy dog eyes begging for a tasty treat, but staying strong could save you and your best mate a lot of pain.

Veterinarian Mark Reeve has named and shamed the five most common foods that could be harmful to your dog this Easter.

Death by chocolate

As little as 100 to 200 grams of chocolate can kill a small dog, Dr Reeve told ABC Radio Adelaide's Afternoons program.

"Be really careful with chocolate in the house," Dr Reeve warned.

Even giving dogs a small piece was dangerous, he said.

Theobromine is the compound toxic to dogs and is found in cacao, tea leaves and the kola nut.

It is found in higher concentrations in dark chocolate and cooking chocolate.

A dog which has eaten a toxic amount of chocolate will often vomit and experience elevated heart rate and temperature, muscle shakes, seizures and death, Dr Reeve said.

Avoid onion and garlic

Food leftovers that contain onion or garlic can be problematic for dogs.

Both are part of the allium family of vegetables and cause Heinz body anaemia.

"It damages the red blood cell," Dr Reeve said.

"Very low levels [of onion or garlic] are still quite toxic.

"There is an anecdotal report that feeding dogs garlic gets rid of fleas — it doesn't."

Macadamia nuts are off the menu

Macadamia nuts produce an inflammatory reaction in dogs.

"They'll get swollen faces, run temperatures and [have] tummy upsets," Dr Reeves said.

"Just one or two [macadamia nuts] can make little dogs really unwell."

Peanuts in general are not harmful for dogs in small amounts.

Grapes also on banned list

Dr Reeve said new research had proven that dogs eating grapes were also at risk of poisoning.

"Dogs that eat grapes or parts of grape skin can develop an acute kidney disease.

"Within 24 to 48 hours they can go into kidney failure."

Dr Reeve said raisins and sultanas were also bad for dogs.

Yeasty dough no-go

Cake mixes, rising bread and any kind of raw doughs containing yeast are also bad for dogs.

The mixtures ferment and expand inside a dog's stomach, Dr Reeve explained.

The fermentation can cause the dog to become drunk and badly bloated.

Call vet straight away

Dr Reeve said it was important owners contacted their vets immediately if they thought their dog had eaten any of the above items.

Quick action could spare the animal pain and, if treated quickly enough in most circumstances, may save the animal's life.

Topics: animals, human-interest, veterinary-medicine, adelaide-5000