26 Infuriating Things That Happen In All Horror Movies
26 Infuriating Things That Happen In All Horror Movies
"Who has time to be punny or corny when you're literally fighting for your life?" — childrenofthecornbread                                   — jakescake                                   "Why doesn't the black guy ever live? They have the life expectancy of a Red Shirt in the original show." — j4b8111f55                                   "God forbid a woman should enjoy sex." — racquelf2                                   "If you're going to hide in the closet at least bury yourself underneath a pile of clothes or something." — v4b8558df1                                   — abbybelcher                                   "When sombody calls out 'hello' when there's an intruder in the house. Like you really think they're going to answer 'what's up, I'm in the bedroom. Gonna kill you. Lolz.'" – Sylvia O, Facebook                                   — 2016mariasmith                                   – Chris Roll, Facebook                                   "They assume he's going to stay unconscious for like three hours and they don't tie his ass up with anything! If the SOB is out for one minute wrap his ass up like a damn burrito." — pattyb44ebc1436                                   "Bitch, I have Verizon and my phone is always charged." — ashsmash7                                   — waynem4d9bbe2c5                                   "Nobody ever turns on the lights when they're freaked out. Most people in real life would turn on all the lights if they're not sure if something is amiss." – Geena Landen, Facebook                                   "Who are these serial door lockers putting lives at risk? EVEN WORSE is when they realise the door is locked, but they keep trying to open it. How many lives have been lost because characters don't know what to do with a locked door?" — cazboline                                   – Melissa Aksakal, Facebook                                   "WHY DO THEY RUN PAST THE FRONT DOOR AND RUN UPSTAIRS?!?! EVERY DAMN TIME!!" — annam422ac94ec                                   "Dude, you've been shot in the face, stabbed in the heart, and have two missing limbs. Yet when the protagonist is finally getting away you suddenly grow the ability to run and catch them AGAIN?" — mhian                                   "Good job you tripped over a flat surface and now you're screwed." — alysonm406a0a55f                                   "First the dog refuses to go anywhere near it, then you hear strange noises, and THEN things start moving on their own. I'm long gone." — michaelz416c2c39c                                   "'Wow, what's that scratching noise coming from my attic? BETTER GO CHECK IT OUT!' Like no, JUST RUN." — kittenfeathers                                   — dakotakm                                   — marvellest                                   "Like, seriously. It's bad enough that you have to go investigate it, but to split up?" — amygracexoxo                                   "I don't care if you think the bad guy is gone or if you're running for your life, hold on to that freakin' knife until you're absolutely 100% safe!" — demirose                                   — craigr498f10161                                   "That would be my first thought…" — jaimeeraee

Columbia Pictures

"Who are these serial door lockers putting lives at risk? EVEN WORSE is when they realise the door is locked, but they keep trying to open it. How many lives have been lost because characters don't know what to do with a locked door?"

— cazboline