North Koreans have fun with Kim Jong-un at parade
Hundreds of thousands have fun in the sun with Kim Jong-un


Hundreds of thousands of exhausted North Koreans danced the night away in the streets of capital Pyongyang during the annual Day of the Sun celebration.

Revellers dressed in their finest clothes stood holding plastic flowers in the sun for hours, before continuing the festivities into the night against a backdrop of fireworks.

Many were left in tears earlier in the day after catching a glimpse of despot leader Kim Jong-un during the annual holiday - held to mark the birthday of the nation's founder, and Kim's grandfather, Kim Il Sung.

Crowds waved flags and flowers in a colourful display of patriotism captured on camera in front of the world's media - a rare public display by leaders in the secretive state.

Scroll down for video

Participants perform in a mass dance event on the square marking the 105th anniversary of the birth of late North Korean leader Kim Il-Sung

Hoards of North Koreans look jubilant as they wave their arms while dancing around in a circle

With the festivities continuing into the night, dancers appear to be gripped with the same fervour as earlier in the day

Divided into work units, people prepare for months for such events, often having no choice but to give up their weekends and evenings to practise

The revellers dressed in their finest clothes, stand holding plastic flowers in the sun for hours before carrying on the festivities into the night

Crowds of revellers look joyful as they sing while colourful fireworks light up the sky behind them

Participants ensured the crowds were awash with colour as they donned their brightest, smartest clothes

On TV, these parades appear as a tightly choreographed and slick affair. But on the ground, it is the little details which slip through that facade that are most interesting.

That perfectly synchronised goose-stepping is aided by thousands of painted white dots placed a metre apart on the ground, guiding boots to the right spot.

One of the most visually spectacular aspects of the parade is the large human screen behind the centre of the action. There, hundreds of thousands of North Koreans hold up coloured placards which, viewed from a distance, spell out huge propaganda slogans.

Divided into work units, people prepare for months for such events, often having no choice but to forgo time at weekends and after work to practise.

Performers split into couples at one point as they entertained the crowds during the annual holiday

The crowds damce in their best clothes in a technicolour show of socialist-realist propaganda

Portraits of North Korea founder Kim Il Sung and late leader Kim Jong Il are lit as people file before them and waves flags

A rare static shot shows thousands of Northern Koreans standing in perfectly symmetric lines

The perfectly synchronised goose-stepping is aided by thousands of painted white dots placed a metre apart on the ground, guiding boots to the right spot

Revellers take a break from the frantic dancing to stand and watch as portraits of North Korea founder Kim Il Sung and late leader Kim Jong Il glow before them

Despite dancing all day, participants show no signs of slowing down during the mass event later in the evening

Scarlet fireworks that mirror the North Korean flag create a visual spectacle behind the beaming dancers

Some supporters look to be verging on delirium after hours of dancing together in perfect unison

Hundreds of thousands of North Koreans stand and pay their respects to Kim Il-Sung

Kim did not address the rally himself on Saturday, instead waving and smiling as ecstatic crowds - men in suits, women in traditional hanbok dresses - filed past him behind the military display.

'Long live!' they chanted, some in tears.

Such pageantry reinforces the cult of personality around the Kim family, three of whom have ruled North Korea with a vice-like grip.

When foreign journalists visit North Korea, their movements are closely managed and they are usually restricted to Pyongyang. Conversations with people are monitored by government 'minders', who also provide translations into English.

Female musicians stand in lines and play the drums while dancers perform next to them

Fireworks explode as North Koreans take part in a mass dance to mark the annual Day of the Sun in honour of the nation's late founder, Kim Il-Sung

The day of celebrations culminated in a mass dance, accompanied by fireworks, in Pyongyang as the country marked the Day of the Sun

Jubilant lines of North Koreans danced into the night during the celebrations, which come at a time of international tensions

A North Korean woman cries as she looks towards her country's leader Kim Jong-un during a military parade today

Smiling North Koreans watch the parade in capital Pyongyang today, on a day which reinforces the cult of personality around the Kim family

Large groups of women joined in the show of patriotism today in Pyongyang in a display during which the country flaunted its military might

Dancers carried sheets in the colour of North Korea's national flag during the military parade in Pyongyang

Large crowds waving flags, banners and flowers lined the streets as the parade was held in Pyongyang in front of a gleeful Kim Jong-un this morning

Near the birthplace of Kim Il Sung, a pilgrimage spot for North Koreans, commuters yesterday moved briskly on and off the subway, young women holding umbrellas walked by, clasping arms, while two children in blue school uniforms shuffled down the street holding a flower basket almost their own size.

'If the enemies want to wage war with our leaders, we have nothing to fear because we will win,' said Jon Myon Sop, who works at a bus station.

'I know about how tensions are rising on the Korean Peninsula and how the U.S. and its puppet countries have brought their military assets to the region.'

Cho Hyon Ran, a tour guide at the site, said: 'We don't want war but we are not afraid of war because we have strong power, our country is the strongest one in the world now.

'You can see all people are laughing, all people are singing, all people are celebrating the Sun's day,' she said in English. 'We are not afraid of anything.'

Unlike at some previous parades attended by Kim, there did not appear to be any a senior Chinese official in attendance - which did not appear to bother him one bit

North Korean men waving pom poms at the parade in the nation's capital today, at a celebration to mark the 105th anniversary of Kim Il Sung's birth

Crowds waved flags and flowers at a parade overseen by despot leader Kim Jong-un in the North Korean capital today

The colourful parade was held in the North Korean capital to mark the 105th anniversary of Kim Il Sung's birth

Tens of thousands of North Koreans lined the streets of Pyongyang to watch the parade and get a sight of despot leader Kim Jong-un

Suited North Korean men wave flowers above their heads in a colourful celebration in Pyongyang today