Kate and William join Queen for Easter service at Windsor Castle

Staff and agencies    The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have joined the Queen for an Easter service at Windsor Castle. William and Kate walked together down the hill to St George’s chapel for the service. They were not accompanied by Prince George or Princess Charlotte. The Queen arrived at the chapel with the Duke of Edinburgh. Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie, Prince Edward , the Countess of Wessex, and their children, Lady Louise Windsor and Viscount Severn, also attended the service. The princess royal and her husband, Vice-Admiral Sir Timothy Laurence, were also seen arriving at the chapel. Dozens of people waited outside and clapped as the monarch entered the church through the Galilee Porch. Princess Anne’s son, Peter Phillips, and his wife, Autumn, led the royal party into the church. Meanwhile, Pope Francis in an impromptu Easter Sunday speech has encouraged believers to hold fast to their faith despite the wars, sickness and hatred in the world. Tens of thousands braved a brief downpour from what had been sunny skies over St Peter’s Square in Rome, where Francis celebrated Mass on the steps leading to St Peter’s Basilica. Traditionally, the pope gives no homily during the late-morning Easter mass, saving his reflections for the “Urbi et Orbi”, a solemn message delivered “to the city and to the world” at midday from the central balcony of the basilica. Francis broke with that tradition, giving an off-the-cuff homily during mass to try to answer what he described as a nagging question for many faithful: why are there so many tragedies and wars in the world if Jesus has risen from the dead, a belief Christians celebrate each Easter. “The church never ceases to say, faced with our defeats, our closed and fearful hearts, ‘stop, the Lord is risen’. But if the Lord is risen, how come these things happen?” Francis said, citing accidents, illnesses, human trafficking, revenge and hatred, among other suffering. “Nobody asks us: ‘But, are you happy with all that’s happening in the world? Are you willing to go forward?, carrying a cross, as Jesus did?” Francis asked the faithful. Francis gestured toward the potted hyacinths, tulips and daffodils, as well as bouquets of pink roses, arranged in neat rows on the steps leading to the imposing church. Easter “isn’t a party with lots of flowers. This is pretty, but it’s not this, it’s more than this,” Francis said, describing the day as an occasion to ponder the mystery of faith. The pontiff said Easter brings “a sign in the midst of so many calamities: a sense of looking beyond, of saying don’t look to a wall, there’s a horizon, there’s life, there is joy”.  The Queen   Prince William   The Duchess of Cambridge   Monarchy   Prince Edward   Prince Philip   news

Duke and Duchess of Cambridge attend Easter service while Pope Francis in Rome asks believers to hold on to their faith

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have joined the Queen for an Easter service at Windsor Castle.



William and Kate walked together down the hill to St George’s chapel for the service. They were not accompanied by Prince George or Princess Charlotte.

The Queen arrived at the chapel with the Duke of Edinburgh.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The Queen at Windsor Castle for the Easter service. Photograph: Peter Nicholls/Reuters

Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie, Prince Edward, the Countess of Wessex, and their children, Lady Louise Windsor and Viscount Severn, also attended the service.

The princess royal and her husband, Vice-Admiral Sir Timothy Laurence, were also seen arriving at the chapel.

Dozens of people waited outside and clapped as the monarch entered the church through the Galilee Porch. Princess Anne’s son, Peter Phillips, and his wife, Autumn, led the royal party into the church.

Meanwhile, Pope Francis in an impromptu Easter Sunday speech has encouraged believers to hold fast to their faith despite the wars, sickness and hatred in the world.

Tens of thousands braved a brief downpour from what had been sunny skies over St Peter’s Square in Rome, where Francis celebrated Mass on the steps leading to St Peter’s Basilica.



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Pope Francis delivers the ‘Urbi et Orbi’ blessing from St Peter’s Basilica following the Easter Sunday mass. Photograph: HO/AFP/Getty Images

Traditionally, the pope gives no homily during the late-morning Easter mass, saving his reflections for the “Urbi et Orbi”, a solemn message delivered “to the city and to the world” at midday from the central balcony of the basilica.

Francis broke with that tradition, giving an off-the-cuff homily during mass to try to answer what he described as a nagging question for many faithful: why are there so many tragedies and wars in the world if Jesus has risen from the dead, a belief Christians celebrate each Easter.

“The church never ceases to say, faced with our defeats, our closed and fearful hearts, ‘stop, the Lord is risen’. But if the Lord is risen, how come these things happen?” Francis said, citing accidents, illnesses, human trafficking, revenge and hatred, among other suffering.

“Nobody asks us: ‘But, are you happy with all that’s happening in the world? Are you willing to go forward?, carrying a cross, as Jesus did?” Francis asked the faithful.

Francis gestured toward the potted hyacinths, tulips and daffodils, as well as bouquets of pink roses, arranged in neat rows on the steps leading to the imposing church.

Easter “isn’t a party with lots of flowers. This is pretty, but it’s not this, it’s more than this,” Francis said, describing the day as an occasion to ponder the mystery of faith.

The pontiff said Easter brings “a sign in the midst of so many calamities: a sense of looking beyond, of saying don’t look to a wall, there’s a horizon, there’s life, there is joy”.

