Kendrick Lamar's Best Sh-t-Talking Lyrics From 'DAMN.'
Kendrick Lamar's Best Sh-t-Talking Lyrics From 'DAMN.'
Kendrick Lamar's Best Sh-t-Talking Lyrics From 'DAMN.'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  IfÂ "Humble"Â was any indication, Kendrick Lamar is not afraid to talk his shit. TheÂ Compton MC continuedÂ to mean mug all over his latest studio albumÂ , which dropped on Thursday night (April 13). Often referring to himself as "the greatest" and comparing himself to Michael Jordan and God himself, Dot lets his bars speak for themselves.Â Scroll through King Kendrick's most lethal lines off Â below.Â

Kendrick Lamar's Best Sh-t-Talking Lyrics From 'DAMN.'

IfÂ "Humble"Â was any indication, Kendrick Lamar is not afraid to talk his shit.

TheÂ Compton MC continuedÂ to mean mug all over his latest studio albumÂ DAMN., which dropped on Thursday night (April 13). Often referring to himself as "the greatest" and comparing himself to Michael Jordan and God himself, Dot lets his bars speak for themselves.Â

Scroll through King Kendrick's most lethal lines off DAMN.Â below.Â

"DNA."

"See you's a, you's a, you's a / B-tch, your hormones probably switch inside your DNA / Problem is, all that sucker shit inside your DNA"

"My DNA not for imitation / Your DNA an abomination"

"ELEMENT."

"Mister one through five that's the only logic / Fake my death, go to Cuba, that's the only option"

"Last LP I tried to lift the black artists / But it's a difference between black artists and wack artists"

"FEEL."

"I feel like debated on who the greatest can stop it / I am legend, I feel like all of y'all is peasants"Â

"I feel like all of y'all is desperate / I feel like all it take is a second to feel like / Mike Jordan whenever holdin' a real mic"

"LOYALTY."

"My resume is real enough for two millenniums"

"PRIDE."

"I can't fake humble 'cause your ass is insecure"

Â "HUMBLE."Â

"Piss out your per diem, you just gotta hate 'em, funk

If I quit your BM, I still ride Mercedes, funk

If I quit this season, I still be the greatest, funk"

"Watch my soul speak, you let the meds talk, ayy

If I kill a n---a, it won't be the alcohol, ayy

I'm the realest n---a after all, b-tch, be humble"

"GOD."

"Everything I do is to embrace y'all / Everything I write is a damn eight ball / Everything I touch is a damn gold mine / Everything I say is from an angel"