Fugitive Mexican ex-Gov. Javier Duarte detained in Guatemala
Fugitive Mexican ex-Gov. Javier Duarte detained in Guatemala
Shares                The former governor of Mexico's Veracruz state who is accused of running a corruption ring that allegedly pilfered millions of dollars from state coffers was detained in Guatemala after six months as a fugitive and high-profile symbol of government graft in his country. Javier Duarte, pale and visibly tired, was brought Sunday to a prison at a military base in the Guatemalan capital A statement from Mexico's federal Attorney General's Office said Duarte was detained Saturday with the cooperation of Guatemalan police and the country's Interpol office in Panajachel, a picturesque tourist town on Lake Atitlan in Guatemala's highlands. It said he is wanted on suspicion of money laundering and organized crime, and prosecutors directed the Foreign Relations Department to request Duarte's extradition via its Guatemalan counterpart.  Manuel Noriega , deputy director of Interpol in Guatemala, said Duarte was located at a hotel where he was staying with his wife. He was asked to leave his room, did so voluntarily and then was arrested without incident in the lobby. Noriega said Duarte would be presented before a judge to consider his possible extradition. At least two dozen policemen guarded Duarte as he arrived at Guatemala City's Matamoros prison. "I have no comment, thank you," he said to a question from The Associated Press. Duarte, 43, was governor of Veracruz from 2010 until he left office Oct. 12, 2016, two months before the scheduled end of his term, saying he was doing so in order to face the allegations against him. At the time he denied having links to phantom businesses that allegedly won state contracts, and said he had not stolen a single peso of state money or diverted government funds overseas. "I don't have foreign accounts," he said last year. "I don't have properties anywhere." Duarte promptly disappeared and had been sought by Mexican authorities ever since. Earlier this year, Interpol issued a notice for his capture. The Mexican government has found millions of dollars purportedly linked to Duarte, frozen more than 100 bank accounts and also seized property and businesses tied to the former governor. A reward of 15 million pesos ($730,000) had been offered for his capture. The detention comes a week after Tomas Yarrington, the former governor of Mexico's Tamaulipas state, was arrested in Italy, also on allegations of organized crime and money laundering. Another ex-governor, Cesar Duarte of Chihuahua state, is also wanted on suspicion of corruption and is said to have fled to El Paso, Texas. He is not related to Javier Duarte. All three ex-governors were members of the ruling Institutional Revolution Party, or PRI, of President Enrique Pena Nieto. The party, which expelled Javier Duarte on Oct. 25, 2016, and has sought to distance itself from him, applauded the arrest. "The PRI calls for all the relevant investigations to be carried out and, respecting due process, for the ex-governor of Veracruz to be punished in an exemplary fashion, as well as anyone who is confirmed to have taken part in his criminal ring," the party said in a statement. Duarte became a powerful symbol of alleged corruption during midterm elections last year in which the PRI lost several governorships, including Veracruz, that it had held uninterrupted since its founding in 1929. Duarte has also been widely criticized for rampant violence in the state during his administration, as drug cartels warred for territory and thousands of people were killed or disappeared into clandestine graves in cases that mostly remain unsolved. The dead include at least 16 journalists slain in Veracruz during his six years in office. ——— Orsi reported from Mexico City. Shares                  Fugitive Mexican ex-Gov. Javier Duarte detained in Guatemala   North Korea's attempted missile launch explodes on liftoff, U.S. officials say   Georgia officials dismiss 89 cases linked to fired officers shown kicking, punching motorist   Tax Day protesters across US demand Trump release tax returns   22 killed in Sri Lanka as massive mound of garbage collapses   Pope decries 'vile' attack on Syrians in Easter address   Judge halts Arkansas plan to execute 8 inmates in 11 days   Judge's anti-death penalty protest riles conservatives   NBA star Isaiah Thomas' sister killed in car accident   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   Microsoft says users are protected from alleged NSA malware   Panicked commuters at New York's Penn Station stampede after false gunfire report   The 8 inmates Arkansas was planning to execute this month   Over 100 killed during Syria's troubled population transfer   April the giraffe gives birth before online audience   Afghan official: Massive US bomb death toll rises to 94 militants   Why the US used the MOAB bomb to target ISIS fighters in Afghanistan   Video captures moment 'mother of all bombs' hit ISIS cave network   Melissa McCarthy returns to 'SNL' as Spicer, Baldwin reprises Trump   Veteran event planner is force behind Easter Egg Roll   Study: Bird population in Vermont forests drop 14.2 percent   How this woman catfished an NBA star and an aspiring model   'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' goes 'deeper into Rey's story'   Coachella: Radiohead walks off stage twice due to technical difficulties

The former governor of Mexico's Veracruz state who is accused of running a corruption ring that allegedly pilfered millions of dollars from state coffers was detained in Guatemala after six months as a fugitive and high-profile symbol of government graft in his country.

Javier Duarte, pale and visibly tired, was brought Sunday to a prison at a military base in the Guatemalan capital

A statement from Mexico's federal Attorney General's Office said Duarte was detained Saturday with the cooperation of Guatemalan police and the country's Interpol office in Panajachel, a picturesque tourist town on Lake Atitlan in Guatemala's highlands.

It said he is wanted on suspicion of money laundering and organized crime, and prosecutors directed the Foreign Relations Department to request Duarte's extradition via its Guatemalan counterpart.

Manuel Noriega, deputy director of Interpol in Guatemala, said Duarte was located at a hotel where he was staying with his wife. He was asked to leave his room, did so voluntarily and then was arrested without incident in the lobby.

Noriega said Duarte would be presented before a judge to consider his possible extradition.

At least two dozen policemen guarded Duarte as he arrived at Guatemala City's Matamoros prison.

"I have no comment, thank you," he said to a question from The Associated Press.

Duarte, 43, was governor of Veracruz from 2010 until he left office Oct. 12, 2016, two months before the scheduled end of his term, saying he was doing so in order to face the allegations against him.

At the time he denied having links to phantom businesses that allegedly won state contracts, and said he had not stolen a single peso of state money or diverted government funds overseas.

"I don't have foreign accounts," he said last year. "I don't have properties anywhere."

Duarte promptly disappeared and had been sought by Mexican authorities ever since. Earlier this year, Interpol issued a notice for his capture.

The Mexican government has found millions of dollars purportedly linked to Duarte, frozen more than 100 bank accounts and also seized property and businesses tied to the former governor. A reward of 15 million pesos ($730,000) had been offered for his capture.

The detention comes a week after Tomas Yarrington, the former governor of Mexico's Tamaulipas state, was arrested in Italy, also on allegations of organized crime and money laundering.

Another ex-governor, Cesar Duarte of Chihuahua state, is also wanted on suspicion of corruption and is said to have fled to El Paso, Texas. He is not related to Javier Duarte.

All three ex-governors were members of the ruling Institutional Revolution Party, or PRI, of President Enrique Pena Nieto.

The party, which expelled Javier Duarte on Oct. 25, 2016, and has sought to distance itself from him, applauded the arrest.

"The PRI calls for all the relevant investigations to be carried out and, respecting due process, for the ex-governor of Veracruz to be punished in an exemplary fashion, as well as anyone who is confirmed to have taken part in his criminal ring," the party said in a statement.

Duarte became a powerful symbol of alleged corruption during midterm elections last year in which the PRI lost several governorships, including Veracruz, that it had held uninterrupted since its founding in 1929.

Duarte has also been widely criticized for rampant violence in the state during his administration, as drug cartels warred for territory and thousands of people were killed or disappeared into clandestine graves in cases that mostly remain unsolved. The dead include at least 16 journalists slain in Veracruz during his six years in office.

———

Orsi reported from Mexico City.