Children As Young As 13 Are Now Attending Smartphone Rehab Centres To Cure Their Addiction
Children As Young As 13 Are Now Attending Smartphone Rehab Centres To Cure Their Addiction
Children As Young As 13 Are Now Attending Smartphone Rehab Centres To Cure Their Addiction It has become really easy for parents to hand their young children smartphones and iPads, in order to keep them occupied, but is it good? Technology addiction has become so widespread that children as young as 13 are now being treated for the excessive use of smartphones and video games at a facility in the US, media reported. The reSTART Life Centre near Seattle is the only treatment unit of its kind in the western world and helps youngsters with addiction to digital technology , including video games, Sky News reported on Friday. The treatment facility for adolescents between ages 13 and 18 is named Serenity Mountain. "In a world filled with endless virtual influences impinging on personal and family connection, we are thrilled to have settled on a location rich in the chill, and long on calm," reSTART said in a statement. "When you start handing these devices to young children and they're distracted by the movement, the colour and sound coming from this device, that is mesmerizing enough that it will override all those natural instincts that children actually have for movement and exploration and social interaction," the centre's founder Dr Hilarie Cash was quoted as saying by Sky News. This treatment is offered in different phases and ensures that kids come out of their addiction. However, in order to keep away from this debacle, we need to eradicate the root cause of this predicament and handle the lives of kids in a better way.

It has become really easy for parents to hand their young children smartphones and iPads, in order to keep them occupied, but is it good?

qualcomm

Technology addiction has become so widespread that children as young as 13 are now being treated for the excessive use of smartphones and video games at a facility in the US, media reported.

The reSTART Life Centre near Seattle is the only treatment unit of its kind in the western world and helps youngsters with addiction to digital technology, including video games, Sky News reported on Friday.

market-success

The treatment facility for adolescents between ages 13 and 18 is named Serenity Mountain.

"In a world filled with endless virtual influences impinging on personal and family connection, we are thrilled to have settled on a location rich in the chill, and long on calm," reSTART said in a statement.

"When you start handing these devices to young children and they're distracted by the movement, the colour and sound coming from this device, that is mesmerizing enough that it will override all those natural instincts that children actually have for movement and exploration and social interaction," the centre's founder Dr Hilarie Cash was quoted as saying by Sky News.

market-success

This treatment is offered in different phases and ensures that kids come out of their addiction. However, in order to keep away from this debacle, we need to eradicate the root cause of this predicament and handle the lives of kids in a better way.

(Inputs from IANS)

Don't Miss 115.5 K SHARES 44.4 K SHARES 19.3 K SHARES