How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter
How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter


After United Airlines' public relations nightmare, Delta offers to increase compensation for passengers who get bumped off their scheduled flights.

Delta offers passengers up to $10,000 for being bumped from flight

A month after teacher Tad Cummins and 15-year-old Elizabeth Thomas disappeared, ABC News' Eva Pilgrim speaks with his wife and daughters.

Family of former teacher accused of kidnapping student speaks out

ABC News' Tony Reali gives his predictions and insights on the latest sports news.

The holiday comes a week after bombs went off at Palm Sunday services at two churches in Egypt.

Security is heightened for Easter at churches in Rome and around the world

16 people were injured when crowds of waiting passengers panicked and fled after thinking they heard gunfire

Panic leads to stampede at New York's Penn Station during rush hour

As Easter approaches, Trump will be spending the holiday at Mar-A-Lago while most of his senior staff will remain in Washington, D.C.

Analysis of North Korea's missiles and their potential to reach the US

A bunny delivering baskets and chocolate to kids? How did Easter turn into this?

How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter

How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter

How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter

The commercialization of Easter is something many Christians are familiar with. But some do not know the history behind the treats and gifts given during the springtime religious holiday.

Why are kids given Easter baskets with chocolate and candy in them?

During Lent -- the 40 days leading up to Easter -- many Christians give up treats such as chocolate. The dietary restraint is meant to symbolize the sacrifice Jesus Christ made by dying on the cross to absolve believers from their sins.

Historically, when Easter arrived, feasts in large baskets were brought to churches to be blessed by religious leaders.

This also explains why chocolate is often given as a present on Easter -- to reward those who gave up eating it during Lent.

Where did the Easter bunny originate?

Some historians claim Easter comes from Eostre, the pagan goddess of fertility and spring.

View gallery How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter (ABC News)

According to the tale, Eostre found a bird freezing to death and turned it into a rabbit to keep it warm. But the rabbit still laid eggs like a bird.

In the tale, the bunny decorated her eggs to show her appreciation for what Eostre did.

What about Easter egg hunts?

Easter eggs also have a religious connotation.

According to the Bible, Mary Magdalene was the first person to see Jesus following the Resurrection after he was crucified, died and was buried.

When she told people what she witnessed, she was holding an egg in her hand as a symbol of rebirth and the circle of life, Eastern Orthodox tradition states. Then, Emperor Tiberius Caesar heard her proclamation and said "Christ has no more risen than that egg is red."

According to the religious story, Mary's egg turned bright red while the emperor spoke.