9 Actors Who Underwent Amazing Transformations & Shocked Us With Their Unrecognisable Looks
9 Actors Who Underwent Amazing Transformations & Shocked Us With Their Unrecognisable Looks
9 Actors Who Underwent Amazing Transformations & Shocked Us With Their Unrecognisable Looks Known for his role as Aakhri Pasta in , Chunky Pandey went bald for his role in the forthcoming movie . If you have watched the trailer of the movie and were shocked to see him in a sporting a bald and mean look, then let us tell you, Chunky himself feels he was unrecognisable in the movie. And if in case, you couldn’t spot him, watch the trailer again to solve the mystery. Here's what Chunky Pandey has to say about his look: 5.

From Akshay Kumar to Priyanka Chopra, several Bollywood actors have tried their hands at portraying dramatic roles with makeup and prosthetics. While some performances became iconic, the others surprised us completely. Here is a list of the actors who looked totally different donning these looks for their respective films and shocked us by adapting a different persona and mannerisms to portray unique roles. Take a look:

1. Akshay Kumar – 2.0

Akshay Kumar had shocked the movie buffs when his first look from Rajinikanth starrer 2.0 was released last year. While people knew that he has been roped in to play a villain in the sequel of Robot, nobody expected such a major transformation for the role. Now, rumours are buzzing that the actor will sport 12 different looks in the movie.

2. Rishi Kapoor – Kapoor and Sons

The cute Daadu from Kapoor and Sons had won our hearts with his wit and humour in the movie, but admit it that for a few seconds, you couldn’t recognise that it was Rishi Kapoor. The veteran actor surprised his fans with the new avatar, which was immensely loved after the movie released. However, not many people don't know that he would spend five hours every day to get ready for his part, and Karan Johar spent Rs. 2 crore for his make-up. Oscar-winning make-up artist Greg Cannom, the man behind Brad Pitt’s amazing transformation in The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, did Rishi Kapoor’s make-up in the film.

3. Randeep Hooda – Sarabjit

kanigas.com

Not only were the fans taken by surprise to see Randeep Hooda almost malnourished in the movie, but even director Omung Kumar was shocked. When Kumar had roped in Hooda for the movie, he told him that he wanted to see his bones. Randeep took the challenge quite seriously and decided to surprise him. When he showed up on the sets after losing 18 kg in 28 days by surviving on just coffee and water, the director didn’t even notice him for he was that unrecognisable.

4. Chunky Pandey – Begum Jaan

Twitter

Known for his role as Aakhri Pasta in Housefull, Chunky Pandey went bald for his role in the forthcoming movie Begum Jaan. If you have watched the trailer of the movie and were shocked to see him in a sporting a bald and mean look, then let us tell you, Chunky himself feels he was unrecognisable in the movie. And if in case, you couldn’t spot him, watch the trailer again to solve the mystery. Here's what Chunky Pandey has to say about his look:





5. Kangana - Tanu Weds Manu Returns

Don't Miss 15.1 K SHARES 13.2 K SHARES 25.6 K SHARES 11.4 K SHARES 20.4 K SHARES

Youtube/Eros Now Movies Preview

One film that gave Kangana Ranaut the much-deserved acclaim was Tanu Weds Manu. The actress shocked us all in the movie with her brilliant performance. And what added to the fans' excitement level was her double role in the second instalment. The actress aced the Hariyanvi accent along with a bob haircut. Indeed, Kangana’s look in the movie was strikingly different from what we had seen in the past.

6. Shah Rukh khan – Fan





The king of romance, after a very long time, played a different role of a crazy fan Gaurav in the movie, and for that he donned an entirely different look. He looked younger sporting a different skin colour, and his hair being parted in a different way. It is said that the actor underwent digital 3D face scanning for the look.

7. Hrithik Roshan – Dhoom 2

Hrithik Roshan had completely transformed himself to play a negative role in Dhoom 2. Hrithik donned different looks in the movie, for which London-based company called Hybrid helped him. Remember his look in which he dressed up like a queen to steal the crown? It had stunned us too.

8. Priyanka Chopra – 7 Khoon Maaf

In the Vishal Bhardwaj directorial, Priyanka Chopra donned seven different looks, as she played the wife of seven different men in the movie. Hollywood special make-up effects artist Greg Cannom, who also transformed Rishi Kapoor in Kapoor and Sons, was the man behind Priyanka’s looks ranging from age 20 to 65.

9. Amitabh Bachchan – Paa

For Paa, Amitabh Bachchan, a 67-year-old man, had to transform himself into a 13-year-old Auro, the character who suffered rare disorder called progeria. Big B would spend about four to five years to get ready for his bit in the movie. His look cost about 10 percent of the total budget of the movie. While applying makeup, he could neither drink, nor eat or talk.

Do you think we have missed out on some other major transformations? Tell us in the comments below.