How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter
How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter
Shares               The commercialization of Easter is something many Christians are familiar with. But some do not know the history behind the treats and gifts given during the springtime religious holiday.    Why are kids given Easter baskets with chocolate and candy in them? During Lent -- the 40 days leading up to Easter -- many Christians give up treats such as chocolate. The dietary restraint is meant to symbolize the sacrifice Jesus Christ made by dying on the cross to absolve believers from their sins. Historically, when Easter arrived, feasts in large baskets were brought to churches to be blessed by religious leaders. This also explains why chocolate is often given as a present on Easter -- to reward those who gave up eating it during Lent.    Where did the Easter bunny originate? Some historians claim Easter comes from Eostre, the pagan goddess of fertility and spring. According to the tale, Eostre found a bird freezing to death and turned it into a rabbit to keep it warm. But the rabbit still laid eggs like a bird. In the tale, the bunny decorated her eggs to show her appreciation for what Eostre did.    What about Easter egg hunts? Easter eggs also have a religious connotation. According to the Bible, Mary Magdalene was the first person to see Jesus following the Resurrection after he was crucified, died and was buried. When she told people what she witnessed, she was holding an egg in her hand as a symbol of rebirth and the circle of life, Eastern Orthodox tradition states. Then, Emperor Tiberius Caesar heard her proclamation and said "Christ has no more risen than that egg is red." According to the religious story, Mary's egg turned bright red while the emperor spoke. Shares                  How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   North Korea's attempted missile launch explodes on liftoff, U.S. officials say   Georgia officials dismiss 89 cases linked to fired officers shown kicking, punching motorist   Tax Day protesters across US demand Trump release tax returns   Judge halts Arkansas plan to execute 8 inmates in 11 days   Judge's anti-death penalty protest riles conservatives   NBA star Isaiah Thomas' sister killed in car accident   Microsoft says users are protected from alleged NSA malware   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   Over 100 killed during Syria's troubled population transfer   Black Muslims aim for unity in challenging time for Islam   16 killed in Sri Lanka as massive mound of garbage collapses   911 calls of San Bernardino school shooting capture panic and fear   Fugitive who mailed manifesto to Trump captured in Wisconsin   Afghan official: Massive US bomb death toll rises to 94 militants   Why the US used the MOAB bomb to target ISIS fighters in Afghanistan   Video captures moment 'mother of all bombs' hit ISIS cave network   Melissa McCarthy returns to 'SNL' as Spicer, Baldwin reprises Trump   Veteran event planner is force behind Easter Egg Roll   Study: Bird population in Vermont forests drop 14.2 percent   How this woman catfished an NBA star and an aspiring model   'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' goes 'deeper into Rey's story'   Paul Simon's oceanfront home in danger of slip sliding away

The commercialization of Easter is something many Christians are familiar with. But some do not know the history behind the treats and gifts given during the springtime religious holiday.

Getty Images

Why are kids given Easter baskets with chocolate and candy in them?

During Lent -- the 40 days leading up to Easter -- many Christians give up treats such as chocolate. The dietary restraint is meant to symbolize the sacrifice Jesus Christ made by dying on the cross to absolve believers from their sins.

Historically, when Easter arrived, feasts in large baskets were brought to churches to be blessed by religious leaders.

This also explains why chocolate is often given as a present on Easter -- to reward those who gave up eating it during Lent.

Getty Images

Where did the Easter bunny originate?

Some historians claim Easter comes from Eostre, the pagan goddess of fertility and spring.

According to the tale, Eostre found a bird freezing to death and turned it into a rabbit to keep it warm. But the rabbit still laid eggs like a bird.

In the tale, the bunny decorated her eggs to show her appreciation for what Eostre did.

Getty Images

What about Easter egg hunts?

Easter eggs also have a religious connotation.

According to the Bible, Mary Magdalene was the first person to see Jesus following the Resurrection after he was crucified, died and was buried.

When she told people what she witnessed, she was holding an egg in her hand as a symbol of rebirth and the circle of life, Eastern Orthodox tradition states. Then, Emperor Tiberius Caesar heard her proclamation and said "Christ has no more risen than that egg is red."

According to the religious story, Mary's egg turned bright red while the emperor spoke.