A year on, few answers from probe into Prince's death
A year on, few answers from probe into Prince's death
Shares                Nearly a year after Prince died from an accidental drug overdose in his suburban Minneapolis studio and estate, investigators still don't know how he got the fentanyl that killed him. An official with knowledge of the investigation told The Associated Press that authorities still haven't interviewed a key associate who was with Prince in his final days, and they haven't asked a grand jury to investigate. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. Prince was 57 when he was found alone and unresponsive in an elevator at Paisley Park on April 21. Criminal justice experts say the pace of the investigation doesn't necessarily mean it's in trouble or that no one will be charged. Tracking illegally obtained pills is complex, and prosecutors want to be sure before filing charges. Shares                  A year on, few answers from probe into Prince's death   How Mariah Carey, Neil Patrick Harris and more celebrities are celebrating Easter 2017   'Star Wars: Rebels' showrunner: Series won't end with 'Rogue One' cameo   Janet Jackson's estranged husband pens emotional message to her   Watch the 1st teaser for the final season of 'Star Wars: Rebels'   Coachella: Radiohead walks off stage twice due to technical difficulties   Janet Jackson tweets first photo of newborn son   Lucasfilm president Kathleen Kennedy says Carrie Fisher will not be in 'Episode IX'   'Star Wars' director Rian Johnson says 'Last Jedi' is singular 'in my mind'   Exclusive: Mark Hamill says 'it's possible' Luke goes to dark side in 'The Last Jedi'   Prince Harry spotted visiting Meghan Markle for Easter weekend   Trump ‘will take action’ to end any North Korea threat to US: top security adviser   North Korea's attempted missile launch explodes on liftoff, U.S. officials say   Supreme Court, with Gorsuch, set to hear church-state case   United changes policy, crew can't displace seated passengers   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients

Nearly a year after Prince died from an accidental drug overdose in his suburban Minneapolis studio and estate, investigators still don't know how he got the fentanyl that killed him.

An official with knowledge of the investigation told The Associated Press that authorities still haven't interviewed a key associate who was with Prince in his final days, and they haven't asked a grand jury to investigate. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing.

Prince was 57 when he was found alone and unresponsive in an elevator at Paisley Park on April 21.

Criminal justice experts say the pace of the investigation doesn't necessarily mean it's in trouble or that no one will be charged. Tracking illegally obtained pills is complex, and prosecutors want to be sure before filing charges.