Watch Melissa McCarthy Ruin Sean Spicer's Week on 'Saturday Night Live'
Watch Melissa McCarthy Ruin Sean Spicer's Week on 'Saturday Night Live'
Watch Melissa McCarthy Ruin Sean Spicer's Week on 'Saturday Night Live'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Sean Spicer is having a bad week. News broke that the White House Press Secretary dressed as the Easter Bunny during the Bush administration, giving fodder for comedians like Jimmy Kimmel.Â But much, much worse: Spicer ignored a well-honored convention never to downplay the seriousness of Nazi atrocities. Spicer criticized Syrian President Bashar al-Assad by insisting Hitler didn't "even sink" to using chemical weapons -- he definitely did -- and calling concentration camps "Holocaust Centers." And now, he also has to deal with another scathing portrayal by Melissa McCarthy on . The star came back to to don an Easter Bunny costume and spoof Spicer again. "I clearly meant to say Concentration Clubs, ok? Let it drop," McCarthy-as-Spicer raged. "It would be really great if the nitpickers could try to see the big picture and didn't solely focus on every little slur and lie I say. That'd be nice." Watch video of Melissa McCarthy'sÂ Sean Spicer impression when it becomes available.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Melissa McCarthy as Press Secretary Sean Spicer during the "Sean Spicer Press Conference" sketch on 'Saturday Night Live' on Feb. 4th, 2017.

Sean Spicer is having a bad week. News broke that the White House Press Secretary dressed as the Easter Bunny during the Bush administration, giving fodder for comedians like Jimmy Kimmel.Â

But much, much worse: Spicer ignored a well-honored convention never to downplay the seriousness of Nazi atrocities. Spicer criticized Syrian President Bashar al-Assad by insisting Hitler didn't "even sink" to using chemical weapons -- he definitely did -- and calling concentration camps "Holocaust Centers."

And now, he also has to deal with another scathing portrayal by Melissa McCarthy on Saturday Night Live. The Ghostbusters star came back to SNL to don an Easter Bunny costume and spoof Spicer again.

"I clearly meant to say Concentration Clubs, ok? Let it drop," McCarthy-as-Spicer raged. "It would be really great if the nitpickers could try to see the big picture and didn't solely focus on every little slur and lie I say. That'd be nice."

Watch video of Melissa McCarthy'sÂ Sean Spicer impression when it becomes available.