Navy: Jets will be modified as it determines oxygen problem
Navy: Jets will be modified as it determines oxygen problem
Shares                The U.S. Navy on Saturday said it will allow a fleet of its training jets to fly again under modified conditions while it determines what's causing a lack of oxygen in some cockpits. Vice Adm. Mike Shoemaker said in a statement that its nearly 200 T-45C aircraft will resume flights as early as Monday after being grounded for more than a week. Its pilots had become increasingly concerned late last month after seeing a spike in incidents in which some personnel weren't getting enough oxygen. The concerned pilots had declined to fly on more than 90 flights. Instructors and students will now wear modified masks in the two-seat trainers. They will also fly below 10,000 feet to avoid use of on-board oxygen generating systems. The planes train future Navy and Marine fighter pilots. Shoemaker said students will be able to complete 75 percent of their training flights as teams of experts, including people from NASA , "identify the root cause of the problem." Two T-45s are now at Naval Air Station Patuxent River in Maryland where the teams are taking them apart to figure out what's gone wrong. "This will remain our top safety priority until we fully understand all causal factors and have identified a solution that will further reduce the risks to our aircrew," Shoemaker said. The Navy operates the training planes at three naval air stations in the Southern U.S. They are NAS Meridian in Mississippi , NAS Kingsville in Texas and NAS Pensacola in Florida. Since 2015, the number of "physiological episodes" has steadily increased among personnel who fly in the plane. Symptoms of low oxygen can range from tingling fingers to cloudy judgment and even passing out, although Navy officials said conditions in the trainer jets haven't been very severe. Cmdr. Jeanette Groeneveld, a Navy spokeswoman, told The Associated Press on Monday that nine people out of more than 100 affected since 2012 have been required to wear oxygen masks after a flight. The T-45C was built by Boeing based on a British design. It has been operational since 1991. Production stopped in 2009, according to Groeneveld. Each plane cost $17.2 million to produce, according to the Navy's website. Shares                  Navy: Jets will be modified as it determines oxygen problem   North Korea's attempted missile launch explodes on liftoff, U.S. officials say   Georgia officials dismiss 89 cases linked to fired officers shown kicking, punching motorist   Tax Day protesters across US demand Trump release tax returns   22 killed in Sri Lanka as massive mound of garbage collapses   Pope decries 'vile' attack on Syrians in Easter address   Judge halts Arkansas plan to execute 8 inmates in 11 days   Judge's anti-death penalty protest riles conservatives   NBA star Isaiah Thomas' sister killed in car accident   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   Microsoft says users are protected from alleged NSA malware   Panicked commuters at New York's Penn Station stampede after false gunfire report   The 8 inmates Arkansas was planning to execute this month   Over 100 killed during Syria's troubled population transfer   April the giraffe gives birth before online audience   Afghan official: Massive US bomb death toll rises to 94 militants   Why the US used the MOAB bomb to target ISIS fighters in Afghanistan   Video captures moment 'mother of all bombs' hit ISIS cave network   Melissa McCarthy returns to 'SNL' as Spicer, Baldwin reprises Trump   Veteran event planner is force behind Easter Egg Roll   Study: Bird population in Vermont forests drop 14.2 percent   How this woman catfished an NBA star and an aspiring model   'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' goes 'deeper into Rey's story'   Coachella: Radiohead walks off stage twice due to technical difficulties

The U.S. Navy on Saturday said it will allow a fleet of its training jets to fly again under modified conditions while it determines what's causing a lack of oxygen in some cockpits.

Vice Adm. Mike Shoemaker said in a statement that its nearly 200 T-45C aircraft will resume flights as early as Monday after being grounded for more than a week.

Its pilots had become increasingly concerned late last month after seeing a spike in incidents in which some personnel weren't getting enough oxygen. The concerned pilots had declined to fly on more than 90 flights.

Instructors and students will now wear modified masks in the two-seat trainers. They will also fly below 10,000 feet to avoid use of on-board oxygen generating systems.

The planes train future Navy and Marine fighter pilots. Shoemaker said students will be able to complete 75 percent of their training flights as teams of experts, including people from NASA, "identify the root cause of the problem."

Two T-45s are now at Naval Air Station Patuxent River in Maryland where the teams are taking them apart to figure out what's gone wrong.

"This will remain our top safety priority until we fully understand all causal factors and have identified a solution that will further reduce the risks to our aircrew," Shoemaker said.

The Navy operates the training planes at three naval air stations in the Southern U.S. They are NAS Meridian in Mississippi, NAS Kingsville in Texas and NAS Pensacola in Florida.

Since 2015, the number of "physiological episodes" has steadily increased among personnel who fly in the plane.

Symptoms of low oxygen can range from tingling fingers to cloudy judgment and even passing out, although Navy officials said conditions in the trainer jets haven't been very severe.

Cmdr. Jeanette Groeneveld, a Navy spokeswoman, told The Associated Press on Monday that nine people out of more than 100 affected since 2012 have been required to wear oxygen masks after a flight.

The T-45C was built by Boeing based on a British design. It has been operational since 1991. Production stopped in 2009, according to Groeneveld.

Each plane cost $17.2 million to produce, according to the Navy's website.