Lady Gaga Debuts New Single & Plays Beyonce Collaboration During 2017 Coachella Performance
Lady Gaga Debuts New Single & Plays Beyonce Collaboration During 2017 Coachella Performance
Lady Gaga Debuts New Single & Plays Beyonce Collaboration During 2017 Coachella Performance  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  When filling a festival slot that was initially held by the one and only Beyonce, there's a lot to live up to. But when it's Lady Gaga filling that slot, there's plenty she couldÂ do to fill those giant shoes -- and she most certainly did, new single and all. Her Coachella performance on Saturday night of Weekend 1 (April 15) was as prolific as it was dynamic, with piano versions of her hits that showcased her voice,Â fierceÂ choreography, and all the pyro/confetti a pop star could want. She carried herself like a trueÂ veteran in the biz, but added someÂ risque comments to remind those in attendance that she's no angelÂ ("Did you find someoneÂ you want to sleep with yet?," one of her first questions inquired).  Early on in her 20-song set, it seemed that Gaga may address the (sort of) elephant in the room that Beyonce was the one to previously haveÂ the headlinerÂ spot prior to her surprise pregnancy announcement in February. "People kept asking me, aren't you nervous about playingÂ 11:30?," she explained, revealing that it actually had nothing to do with Beyonce at all, butÂ rather, her excitement for the gig. "No way man, because that means I'm playing for the heavyweights at Coachella." What GagaÂ Â do, though, was include her Beyonce collaboration "Telephone" and seemed to have no problem includingÂ Queen B's verses. She didn't say or do anything regardingÂ Beyonce beyond that, but frankly her hits-stacked set list (and stage-ruling prowess)Â was all that really mattered at the show. Although Gaga didn't opt for the Coachella-esqueÂ surprise guest appearances for her performance, she did manage to give fans a little something unexpected: A brand new single. Titled "The Cure," the almost dancehall-sounding track provided a perfect nearly halfway point in the show and likely made fans want more where it came from --Â which is apparently lots of recent time in the studio, as she explained to the crowd. The song is now available on iTunes, but what festival goers will likely be putting on repeat is footage of the stripped downÂ medley Gaga performed of "Edge of Glory," "Speechless" and "You &Â I"Â performedÂ toward the end of the night. Or maybe just the entire 90-minute set over again to re-live the magicÂ one more time. ScheiÃŸe Love game John Wayne Just dance Born this way Venus A-Yo Sexxx Dreams Telephone Alejandro Teeth The Cure Edge of glory SpeechlessÂ You & IÂ Million reasonsÂ Applause Poker Face Bad Romance  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Lady Gaga performs on the Coachella Stage during day 2 of the Coachella Valley Music And Arts Festival (Weekend 1) at the Empire Polo Club on April 15, 2017 in Indio, Calif.

When filling a festival slot that was initially held by the one and only Beyonce, there's a lot to live up to. But when it's Lady Gaga filling that slot, there's plenty she couldÂ do to fill those giant shoes -- and she most certainly did, new single and all.

Her Coachella performance on Saturday night of Weekend 1 (April 15) was as prolific as it was dynamic, with piano versions of her hits that showcased her voice,Â fierceÂ choreography, and all the pyro/confetti a pop star could want. She carried herself like a trueÂ veteran in the biz, but added someÂ risque comments to remind those in attendance that she's no angelÂ ("Did you find someoneÂ you want to sleep with yet?," one of her first questions inquired).

Early on in her 20-song set, it seemed that Gaga may address the (sort of) elephant in the room that Beyonce was the one to previously haveÂ the headlinerÂ spot prior to her surprise pregnancy announcement in February. "People kept asking me, aren't you nervous about playingÂ 11:30?," she explained, revealing that it actually had nothing to do with Beyonce at all, butÂ rather, her excitement for the gig. "No way man, because that means I'm playing for the heavyweights at Coachella."

What GagaÂ didÂ do, though, was include her Beyonce collaboration "Telephone" and seemed to have no problem includingÂ Queen B's verses. She didn't say or do anything regardingÂ Beyonce beyond that, but frankly her hits-stacked set list (and stage-ruling prowess)Â was all that really mattered at the show.

Although Gaga didn't opt for the Coachella-esqueÂ surprise guest appearances for her performance, she did manage to give fans a little something unexpected: A brand new single. Titled "The Cure," the almost dancehall-sounding track provided a perfect nearly halfway point in the show and likely made fans want more where it came from --Â which is apparently lots of recent time in the studio, as she explained to the crowd.

The song is now available on iTunes, but what festival goers will likely be putting on repeat is footage of the stripped downÂ medley Gaga performed of "Edge of Glory," "Speechless" and "You &Â I"Â performedÂ toward the end of the night. Or maybe just the entire 90-minute set over again to re-live the magicÂ one more time.

Lady Gaga's Coachella set list:

ScheiÃŸe

Love game

John Wayne

Just dance

Born this way

Venus

A-Yo

Sexxx Dreams

Telephone

Alejandro

Teeth

The Cure

Edge of glory

SpeechlessÂ

You & IÂ

Million reasonsÂ

Applause

Poker Face

Bad Romance