Sunil Grover's Latest Post Isn't A Sly Dig At Kapil Sharma But A Hint About New Beginnings
Sunil Grover's Latest Post Isn't A Sly Dig At Kapil Sharma But A Hint About New Beginnings
Sunil Grover's Latest Post Isn't A Sly Dig At Kapil Sharma But A Hint About New Beginnings The great war between comedians Sunil Grover and Kapil Sharma might have ended but looks like Grover still hasn’t forgotten the humiliation. For the uninitiated, Kapil Sharma in an inebriated state hurled a shoe at Dr. Mashoor Gulati aka Sunil Grover, on a flight. According to reports, he crossed a line when he insulted Grover and his other colleagues including Chandan Prabhakar and Ali Asgar. So much so, that the trio ended up quitting the show soon after. Now, thanks to this debacle, The Kapil Sharma show saw a massive downfall in terms of TRPs and actors backing out from making appearances at the last minute. Sharma tried to reconcile and apologize on several occasions but all attempts went to dust. A war of words ensued on the social media platform which kept the internet highly entertained. Recently, Sunil again posted a cryptic message along with a photo and it has left us all wondering yet again. He shared an image in which he is opening a door and he captioned it by saying, “No caption for this picture this time. Take out the meaning you want.” No caption for this picture this time. Take out the meaning you want. A post shared by Sunil Grover (@whosunilgrover) on Apr 15, 2017 at 2:57am PDT   Well, looks like it’s another dig at Kapil Sharma, don’t you think? On the other hand, it could be a hint at new beginnings as well. Previously, Grover has posted a picture with his show and he wrote, ‘Size US 10’. One thing is for sure, Sunil is still bitter about the whole incident. What do you think? Tell us in the comments section below.

The great war between comedians Sunil Grover and Kapil Sharma might have ended but looks like Grover still hasn’t forgotten the humiliation.

Dna

For the uninitiated, Kapil Sharma in an inebriated state hurled a shoe at Dr. Mashoor Gulati aka Sunil Grover, on a flight. According to reports, he crossed a line when he insulted Grover and his other colleagues including Chandan Prabhakar and Ali Asgar. So much so, that the trio ended up quitting the show soon after. Now, thanks to this debacle, The Kapil Sharma show saw a massive downfall in terms of TRPs and actors backing out from making appearances at the last minute.

NDTV movies

Sharma tried to reconcile and apologize on several occasions but all attempts went to dust. A war of words ensued on the social media platform which kept the internet highly entertained.

Recently, Sunil again posted a cryptic message along with a photo and it has left us all wondering yet again.

He shared an image in which he is opening a door and he captioned it by saying, “No caption for this picture this time. Take out the meaning you want.”

No caption for this picture this time. Take out the meaning you want. A post shared by Sunil Grover (@whosunilgrover) on Apr 15, 2017 at 2:57am PDT

Well, looks like it’s another dig at Kapil Sharma, don’t you think? On the other hand, it could be a hint at new beginnings as well.

Previously, Grover has posted a picture with his show and he wrote, ‘Size US 10’.

One thing is for sure, Sunil is still bitter about the whole incident. What do you think? Tell us in the comments section below.

Don't Miss 5.1 K SHARES 858 SHARES 15.4 K SHARES 13.3 K SHARES 25.6 K SHARES