Watch Alec Baldwin Turn Trump Into 'The Bachelor'
Watch Alec Baldwin Turn Trump Into 'The Bachelor'
Coachella 2017 Photos: Surprise Guests -- Drake, The Weeknd & More! Coachella Day 2 Midday Report: Banks & Steelz Bring Rap-Rock, Sarah Barthel Joins Local Natives Future Zips Through His Hits, Shares Spotlight with Migos & Drake at Coachella 2017 From Rihanna to Beyonce, 15 Artists Who Rocked Coachella Style Better Than Everyone Else Watch Alec Baldwin Turn Trump Into 'The Bachelor'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Things are tense between President Trump's top advisors. Rumor is thatÂ White House Chief StrategistÂ SteveÂ BannonÂ andÂ Trump's son-in-law JaredÂ KushnerÂ have been locking horns. And the latest Alec Baldwin impression of Trump probably won't help. The movie star returned toÂ Â to skewer the president again, spoofingÂ Â with Jimmy Fallon as JaredÂ KushnerÂ by his side. "Jared, Steve, standing before me are my two top advisors," Baldwin-as-Trump said.Â "I only have one photo in my hand. Tonight is elimination night." He continued, "Jared, you take the most beautiful photos. Steve, you take the worst photos of all time. When I see a photo of you, it makes me want to puke. Jared, I've sent you all around the world to represent me, and no one's ever heard you speak. You're like a little Jewish .Â And Steve, you may be smart, but I once walked in on you eating a live pig in the Roosevelt room." Who didÂ Alec-as-Trump pick? Watch video of Alec Baldwin's latest impression when it becomes available.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Things are tense between President Trump's top advisors. Rumor is thatÂ White House Chief StrategistÂ SteveÂ BannonÂ andÂ Trump's son-in-law JaredÂ KushnerÂ have been locking horns.

And the latest Alec Baldwin impression of Trump probably won't help. The movie star returned toÂ Saturday Night LiveÂ to skewer the president again, spoofingÂ The BachelorÂ with Jimmy Fallon as JaredÂ KushnerÂ by his side.



"Jared, Steve, standing before me are my two top advisors," Baldwin-as-Trump said.Â "I only have one photo in my hand. Tonight is elimination night."

He continued, "Jared, you take the most beautiful photos. Steve, you take the worst photos of all time. When I see a photo of you, it makes me want to puke. Jared, I've sent you all around the world to represent me, and no one's ever heard you speak. You're like a little JewishÂ Amelie.Â And Steve, you may be smart, but I once walked in on you eating a live pig in the Roosevelt room."



Who didÂ Alec-as-Trump pick? Watch video of Alec Baldwin's latest impression when it becomes available.