Pippa and the party to end all parties
Pippa and the party to end all parties
e haven’t discussed Pippa Middleton here before, which is remiss because she could almost be a Modern Manners poster girl. Brushed hair, clean nails, a cracking forehand, she’s also a useful dinner party guest (I’m told) because you can stick her next to anyone. The bore, the drunk, the perve who “loses” his napkin and has to have a grope up and down your thigh to find it; sit Pippa next to any of them and she’ll apparently smile sweetly through it. A good egg. However, we all have our off days. Which brings us to the topic of Pippa’s recent hen party. It was a skiing trip to Méribel. Pippa flew there with sister Kate and pals on a private jet. They stayed in a posh chalet and were each reportedly given goody bags crammed with “Swatch watches, Ugg boots, leather notebooks and personalised fragrances”. part from wondering “Are people still wearing Ugg boots?”, this made me realise we must ban hen dos. Enough is enough. A jet and a goody bag is the sort of thing one wins on a Saturday night game show, the zenith of a hen party trend that has been left unchecked too long. And those multicoloured penis straws you get at hen dos are awful, too, so let’s criminalise those while we’re at it. Listen, I’m mostly thrilled when a friend gets engaged. Hurrah, I cannot think of anything I’d rather do than come to 362 dress fittings with you. But these days almost as much effort and cash gets spent on the hen as it does the wedding day itself. or a start, the phrase “hen night” is nonsense because there cannot be just one night. They now stretch to at least one day and one night and involve some sort of Fifties housewife activity (cupcake decorating), a round of the world’s most excruciating game, Mr and Mrs (“When did you first say you loved one another?”), and a generously oiled male stripper wearing a pair of flammable knickers. I once went to a hen party and made small talk with a beefy gentleman wearing just a black G-string – he was a student, so we discussed his geography degree – while he made me a gin and tonic. Call me old-fashioned, but I quite like my barman with clothes on. More hygienic. ou’ll probably have to travel, too, since the hen party will never be anywhere convenient. It’ll be deep in the Cotswolds or a cottage in Cornwall, or in Ibiza or even Vegas. Vegas! Because nothing says “I’m getting married” like three nights rubbing up alongside middle-aged Trump voters from Arkansas playing blackjack. I blame the films The Hangover and Bridesmaids for encouraging this. ctually, no. I tell you who we can blame. An unlikely source but it’s Eleanor Roosevelt, wife of FDR, who threw what was called a “hen party” as First Lady in 1940. It was for “Cabinet wives and ladies of the press” at the White House. And then, somehow, this morphed into the “bachelorette” party over there, and the “hen party” here. Feather boas, L-plates, plastic tiaras and all. They’ve become an extreme sport. And have you ever been in charge of rounding up the cash from everyone? It is less fun than a trip to the gynaecologist. Emails fly in saying things like “I only had one glass of prosecco so can I pay a bit less?” and “I didn’t eat a pudding so can you take £5 off my bill?”. A ban would put an end to all of this. Or if not a total ban, then a radical paring-back. Dinner at home for up to six friends. Normal coloured drinks. Everyone fully clothed. No games because this isn’t a child’s birthday party and no penis straws. NO STRAWS. Sorry.

We haven’t discussed Pippa Middleton here before, which is remiss because she could almost be a Modern Manners poster girl. Brushed hair, clean nails, a cracking forehand, she’s also a useful dinner party guest (I’m told) because you can stick her next to anyone. The bore, the drunk, the perve who “loses” his napkin and has to have a grope up and down your thigh to find it; sit Pippa next to any of them and she’ll apparently smile sweetly through it. A good egg.

However, we all have our off days. Which brings us to the topic of Pippa’s recent hen party. It was a skiing trip to Méribel. Pippa flew there with sister Kate and pals on a private jet. They stayed in a posh chalet and were each reportedly given goody bags crammed with “Swatch watches, Ugg boots, leather notebooks and personalised fragrances”.