Accidental Tom Hardy lookalike was 'gutted' after not meeting himself
Accidental Tom Hardy lookalike was 'gutted' after not meeting himself
We can safely assume that perfect human Tom Hardy leads a fairly charmed life. That's also good news if you happen to be a Hardy lookalike, but resembling a celebrity means you can never, ever trust sightings in your immediate vicinity. That's what happened to Johnny Watson, a U.K. resident who happens to be the famous actor's spitting image. Reports made their way to Watson that Hardy had stopped in at the Surf Cafe in Tynemouth, which is just a short drive away from Watson's home. In fact, Watson was at that very cafe before he went home to catch some zzzzs. What a disappointed. He probably just missed Hardy! "I woke up and had a message saying Tom Hardy is in the Surf Cafe," Watson told his local paper , the . "So I’m just thinking to myself that I’m gutted because I was there earlier and I didn’t see him." It didn't take Watson — who has been told before that he looks like Hardy — to realize what was going on. "So I just slowly started to think ‘oh god, is this me? Then I look at Twitter and, sure enough, everyone’s sharing a picture of me," he said. Watson left the with a message for all of his disappointed neighbors: "I would like to apologise to the good people of the North East for not being Tom Hardy." Image:  Johnny Watson / Facebook Image:  BUCHAN/VARIETY/REX/SHUTTERSTOCK WATCH: A 'Friends' parody musical is coming to New York

We can safely assume that perfect human Tom Hardy leads a fairly charmed life. That's also good news if you happen to be a Hardy lookalike, but resembling a celebrity means you can never, ever trust sightings in your immediate vicinity.

That's what happened to Johnny Watson, a U.K. resident who happens to be the famous actor's spitting image.

Reports made their way to Watson that Hardy had stopped in at the Surf Cafe in Tynemouth, which is just a short drive away from Watson's home.

In fact, Watson was at that very cafe before he went home to catch some zzzzs.

What a disappointed. He probably just missed Hardy!

"I woke up and had a message saying Tom Hardy is in the Surf Cafe," Watson told his local paper, the Chronicle. "So I’m just thinking to myself that I’m gutted because I was there earlier and I didn’t see him."

It didn't take Watson — who has been told before that he looks like Hardy — to realize what was actually going on.

"So I just slowly started to think ‘oh god, is this me? Then I look at Twitter and, sure enough, everyone’s sharing a picture of me," he said.

Watson left the Chronicle with a message for all of his disappointed neighbors: "I would like to apologise to the good people of the North East for not being Tom Hardy."

Image: Johnny Watson / Facebook Image: BUCHAN/VARIETY/REX/SHUTTERSTOCK