Zombie drug Spice is being mass-produced in Chinese labs
Zombie drug Spice is being mass-produced in Chinese labs


The zombie drug turning the streets of British cities into scenes from 'dystopian horror films' is being mass-produced in Chinese labs by moonlighting chemists before being smuggled into the UK through the post.

The powder used to create Spice, the banned drug, is being sold online for as little as £880 a kilo which is opening the door for dealers to make massive margins with 4 gram bags being sold on the streets of London for £60.

An undercover reporter visited one lab on the outskirts of Shanghai having been asked to arrive at midnight and was greeted by a man sweating profusely understood to be producing the lethal substance after hours.

The apparently legitimate chemist was surrounded by discarded rubber gloves, fluorescent yellow liquid and bags of white powder and said shipping 50 kilos of Spice powder a month to the UK would not be a problem.

After the powder is shipped to the UK, it is dissolved in water and sprayed over herbs before being dried out and sold to addicts who smoke it resulting in a trance-like high 100 times more potent than cannabis.

The zombie drug turning the streets of British cities into scenes from 'dystopian horror films' is being mass-produced in Chinese labs like this one in Shanghai

Medical equipment from the Shanghai laboratory used to make the drug known as 'spice', which turns abusers into 'zombies'

An undercover reporter visited one lab on the outskirts of Shanghai having been asked to arrive at midnight and was greeted by a man sweating profusely understood to be producing the lethal substance after hours

A trolley car on Nanjing Road in Shanghai, China, the city where a lab was found mass-producing the banned drug Spice

Locals say people have been left 'zonked out and motionless' by the effects of Spice. Pictured is a woman with medical training examining two people on a bench in Manchester

The drug, pictured, can sell for around £20 and is causing people to 'walk around like zombies' due to its affects, which are similar to cannabis or ecstasy but increase the risk of developing mental illness

The spread of synthetic drug Spice is turning Manchester into a 'dystopian city from a horror movie', according to local residents, with drug users seen writhing in agony in the city centre during rush hour

An investigative journalist for the Sunday People visited one of the Spice factories, and said: 'There was an air of dodginess about the meeting. He asked me to come to the lab at midnight and my visit was very cloak and dagger. He was sweating ­profusely and very anxious.

'When I walked into the lab I was hit by this really strong wall of toxic aroma. It smelt terrible. There was a small office on the left and in ­another room there were barrel-loads.'

With little interest in the drug itself in China, it is easier for producers to go about their business, but the anxiety is palpable due to dealing Class-A drugs being punishable by death.

The synthetic cannabis, which has been listed as a Class-B drug, has been sweeping the nation leaving users - many of whom are homeless' resembling 'zombies'.

Now police are said to be 'stretched to the limit' with forces calling for more funding to be able to tackle the problem effectively.

Pictures have emerged of people lying in city centre streets in the middle of the day 'turning blue' while others have been seen vomiting on themselves outside shops and businesses.

Many residents and traders in Manchester have been calling for more action to be taken by authorities, claiming people have been left 'writhing in agony' and 'slumped against walls' during rush hour.

Meanwhile men and women in Blackpool have been seen 'frozen to the spot' due to the effects of the drugs with passers-by 'walking straight past them without looking'.

Drug experts are warning of a Spice epidemic that is spreading from the North-West, driving a wave of crime and casualties that the police and emergency services are struggling to cope with.

An epidemic of abuse of Spice by some of Manchester's homeless population - in plain sight - is causing users to experience psychosis and a zombie-like states

The harrowing and shocking effects of the drug are being witnesses daily in the Piccadilly Gardens area of Manchester

Ambulance crews are now being called out dozens of times a day to help users. Pictured, a man and a woman stagger along Piccadilly Gardens , wrapped in a duvet

It has been described as having the 'physically addictive qualities of heroin and the psychologically addictive qualities of crack'.

In Manchester ambulances are now being 'called out dozens of times a day' to Spice cases.

WHAT IS SPICE AND IS IT LEGAL? Spice is a synthetic high which falls into a category of drug-like substances that can be bought in shops or online without breaking the law, but which give the body the same artificial rush of endorphins - or 'high' - as illegal drugs such as cannabis or ecstasy. Black Mamba is a variation of Spice, a synthetic cannabinoid which has similar effects to natural cannabis. However it is much more potent and reacts more strongly with the brain's receptors. Regular use can cause a relapse of mental health illness or increase the risk of developing a mental illness especially if someone has a family history of mental illness. Earlier this year, a global drugs survey found that hospital admissions as a result of taking the herbal substance Spice have increased by one-third since 2014. Reported effects include convulsions, shortness of breath, kidney failure and cardiac arrest, as well as hallucinations and irreparable damage to the user's mental health. Spice was made illegal in May 2016.

Chief Superintendent Wasim Chaudhry, from Greater Manchester Police’s city centre team, said officers were doing all they could to tackle the issue but it was 'a problem that we cannot afford to get any worse'.

He said: 'Those who take Spice are often left incapacitated or seriously ill and need the help of our partners in the NHS and ambulance service.

'They can also become aggressive and become a danger to themselves and others.

'The truth is, tackling the issues caused by Spice is putting pressure on public services and is taking up a lot of our resources. Particularly in Manchester city centre.

'A multi-agency approach is the only way we can fight this battle.

'As a result we have been working with Manchester City Council’s adults and children’s services, rough sleeper team, outreach teams and local charities as well as North West Ambulance Service and the NHS.'

Drug users in the streets have been described as 'pale, wasted people' by locals.

One resident, a photographer called Joel who has taken pictures of the Calais Jungle, said Piccadilly Gardens in Manchester is rife with Spice use.

He said: 'It's (Piccadilly Gardens) is no longer the kind of place you go to, it's the kind of place you get out of.'

Local office workers added the sight of people 'stumbling around in a zombie-like state was as common as someone selling coffee'.

Osman Riaz, 26, who works in Debenhams on Market Street, says he sees those affected by Spice all the time.

He said: 'You see it pretty much every day. At least one person who is zonked out, glazed over, not moving.

'They look like they're dead. They don't move and you can't see them breathing. It's scary and it affects businesses because customers don't want to go in somewhere when there's people like that in the doorways.

'Sadly though these people are hooked on it and desperate for it, and what's more it's a daily part of life.

'You get used to it, and now it seems no different than walking past someone selling the Big Issue or coffee.'

A man stands bent over a bike rack, having been left almost immobile after taking the highly addictive drug

Another man believed to have used the drug was pictured sitting against a lamppost with one of his shoes off. Some have said the sight of Spice users in distress in Manchester has become 'as common as someone selling coffee'

Others have been seen vomiting on the ground or on themselves as they struggle to cope with the effects of the drug

Others have been seen 'slumped' against walls and bins in the city, particularly the Piccadilly Gardens area which locals say is now a 'place you get out of' rather than go to

Paramedics, pictured, have been seen 'all around Manchester' dealing with Spice-related cases with residents complaining they do not want their children to see the effects of the drug on people in the city centre

Colleagues Louise Partington, 35, added: 'I work late and have to get the bus by Morrisons. I hate coming out late, especially when it's dark, they're all there and I literally run to the bus stop.

'It's scary, they walk like zombies and it's not nice to see.'

Stephanie Martingale, 32, another Debenhams worker, said Spice usage was putting a strain on the NHS.

She said: 'Yesterday at the market a guy was on the floor and the lady said "leave him, he's been there three hours", the paramedics came before and he's done the exact same thing again. The paramedics and the ambulance service have been clearly all around town because of Spice and it's not nice to see for the kids either.'

Lee Morgan said he was out in the play area with his four-year-old son and was worried about what children were seeing in the area.

The 32-year-old said: 'It is a big concern especially when they're all laid out and my son is asking questions.

'It's one thing them sat there begging, seeming quite sober and not aggressive but if there's three or four of them lying in the road shouting at each other you really don't feel safe for your children or other people.'

Businesses in Manchester say the Spice epidemic is making their lives a misery.

Sam Priestner, who works at flower stall Flourish Manchester, said: 'It's been like six months of hell. Its affecting us not only by putting off customers but people on Spice fall over and crash into the stall - they've broken plants, they've broken flowers, then we are having to ring security to get them to come and get them.

'They congregate near us. It starts off just two or three but then that turns into ten, they're shouting, they're arguing among themselves. Last week there were three ambulances called just while we were here.

'They just collapse and then come round, we've had them running up and down the street screaming, it's really shocking and quite scary for us.

'It's happening more and more and the last six months it's got worse. It used to happen every week but now it's every day.'

People look on as a man appears to be taking the drug in a telephone box in Manchester's packed city centre

A paramedic tends to a man, believed to have taken spice in a telephone box. People argue the drug is putting strain on the NHS

North West Ambulance Service (NWAS) said the trust has seen an increase in the number of 999 calls received following the use of psychoactive substances

Ambulances, pictured, are being called out 'dozens of times a day' to Spice-related problems in Manchester according to locals, who say it is 'putting a strain on the NHS'

Some residents have said the spread of the drug and the effect it has on users has left them 'fearing for the safety of their children and themselves'. Pictured is a man who appears to be passed out due to the effects of Spice

The drug has become popular with the city's homeless community, with council officials pledging to improve services for the homeless to tackle the epidemic. Pictured are suspected Spice users in a doorway in Manchester, with some seemingly 'passed out' or 'slumped against walls'

Mr Priestner added that many customers who don't visit the city centre regularly have also complained how things have got worse in recent months.

She said: 'We have seen some disgusting things as well when they are completely out of it.

'Yesterday a guy dropped his pants and went to the toilet in front of me. The poor cleaner from Debenhams had to come out and clean it up.

'It's like it turns them into animals, they just don't care.'

Kelly Andrews, who works at bakery, said she has had to clean up faeces from the phone box meters from the market before and that she regularly sees someone collapse and be taken away by an ambulance.

She said said: 'I have a lot of regular customers but some of them are a bit older and they don't want to be stopping and buying my product because there's people banging into them who don't know what they're doing because they're on spice.

'They're staggering all over the place, sometimes they are crawling. It's not nice and people don't want to see it.

'They're on the floor vomiting all over themselves. It's horrible especially for people with children.'

Market trader Nicola Whittle said one man who appeared to be under the influence of the drug 'gyrated' around the pole of her gazebo.

Local traders said they have seen people using the substances in phone booths with police called to the scene on several occasions

Paramedics have complained of violent reactions from users despite them being in a state of distress. Pictured is a suspected user being treated by medics after being sick on himself

She said: 'I was just standing there serving and he staggered up the middle of the market.

'He was walking a bit funny, we thought he was drunk or something, then he got to the end of my gazebo where the pole is and he got hold of it and started gyrating around it, as if he was a lap dancer.

'But as he was doing it he was pulling the gazebo over so I said "come on you have to let go of this" and he was having none of it, and then he went into a bit of a trance. It was like he was frozen in a way, it was so strange.

'A couple of the lads came and tried to drag him off it but he was just stuck to the pole, we couldn't get him off.'

She added: 'One lad was looked after by paramedics then two hours later he was back, took some more of the stuff and fell over and cracked his head open so another ambulance was called for him.

'It's taking ambulances away from people who need them the most.'

Staff in a Manchester Hairdressers said they have 'locked customers in' before to stop 'people on Spice' coming in.

A worker said: 'One came in and he tried to lick a teenage boy's head. Luckily his mum was next to him and she shouted at him to get away. The poor lad was terrified.

'We rang the police and they didn't come. They just called back an hour later to check if he'd gone.'

Manchester town hall chief executive Joanne Roney, who started the job a week ago, said the council and police are working together to find a solution, including handing out health warning leaflets.

North West Ambulance Service said it was finding it difficult to aid people using Spice because the drug can 'cause unpredictable behaviour including violence', with police called in to protect paramedics

This couple were allegedly seen by witnesses using the drug before covering themselves in a duvet and huddling up together

The council said it had also made extra investment in its homeless services and is working with officers to take a 'tougher approach' to begging.

Councillor Paul Andrews, executive member for health and wellbeing, said: 'Working with a range of partners through the city's Homeless Charter, we are investing heavily - more than £1million extra this year alone - in services to help keep homeless people off the streets in the first place and to support anyone who finds themselves homeless to move forwards in their lives.

'Warning vulnerable people who are being targeted and exploited by dealers about the dangers of Spice is just one small part of the extensive work which is going on to tackle this epidemic.'

Greater Manchester Police have revealed they dealt with 58 Spice linked calls in less than three days this weekend, and say the epidemic is putting 999 services under immense pressure.

Police have launched Operation Mandera to deal with the Spice problem as well as the general drug and anti-social behaviour issues.

WHAT IS SPICE AND IS IT LEGAL? Spice is a synthetic high which falls into a category of drug-like substances that can be bought in shops or online without breaking the law, but which give the body the same artificial rush of endorphins - or 'high' - as illegal drugs such as cannabis or ecstasy. Black Mamba is a variation of Spice, a synthetic cannabinoid which has similar effects to natural cannabis. However it is much more potent and reacts more strongly with the brain's receptors. Regular use can cause a relapse of mental health illness or increase the risk of developing a mental illness especially if someone has a family history of mental illness. Earlier this year, a global drugs survey found that hospital admissions as a result of taking the herbal substance Spice have increased by one-third since 2014. Reported effects include convulsions, shortness of breath, kidney failure and cardiac arrest, as well as hallucinations and irreparable damage to the user’s mental health. Spice was made illegal in May 2016.

City centre Inspector Phil Spurgeon said: 'We know we still have much work to do alongside our partners. Spice dealers remain firmly in our sights.

'We will use the tactics we've put to good effect tackling cannabis dealers under Operation Mandera, to ensure those dealing Spice do not take root in our city centre.'

In the past three weeks 165 people have been searched in and around the city's Piccadilly Gardens, and 17 handed dispersal orders, which include short term bans.

Fifty cannabis dealers have been jailed and 37 dealers banned from the gardens.

Insp Spurgeon added: 'Spice has been around for the past two or three years in different guises.

'I'm not being judgemental about the legislation, but the reality with the Psychoactive Substances Act is that it has shifted supply onto the streets.

'The product was probably more consistent in the head shops. Now it's more varied, the make-up is constantly changing.

'That's why we're seeing people collapsing, as the drug becomes more potent.

'The unique challenge with Spice, compared to cannabis, is the effect it has on individuals and the impact on the body.

'It can be very scary. We're having to do much more harm reduction work and the ambulance service is facing increased demand.

'We have to tackle anti-social users. We can't have a situation where people come into the city centre, buy Spice, take it and cause trouble.

'It isn't illegal to possess, but its ingredients are mostly Class B drugs, so we use powers under the Misuse of Drugs Act to stop and search people and take enforcement action.'

He added: 'What we can do is continue with the tactics we know have worked with Operation Mandera, including having high visibility in and around the gardens and having plain clothes officers on patrol.

'That helps us pick off the street level dealers. From there, we can use intelligence to get further up the food chain to the distributors.'

Insp Spurgeon said helping vulnerable Spice users - some of whom are homeless or suffer from mental health issues - remains a priority.

'Our first thought is always "does this person need support?".If they do, we can help them with that and point them to the right services.

'But if they refuse help and continue to cause trouble, it becomes an enforcement issue.'

Speaking about the city's Spice problem, Greater Manchester's police and crime commissioner Tony Lloyd said: 'The police have had some people who have gone through very, very near death experiences, where they've essentially been dead and have been brought around.

Residents have said they are 'tired' of seeing people suffering from the effects of the drug in the street and say the problem is 'only getting worse'. Pictured is a man apparently passed out on the pavement

Spice, pictured, is a synthetic high which give the body the same artificial rush of endorphins. It is much more potent than cannabis and reacts more strongly with the brain's receptors. Reported effects include convulsions, shortness of breath, kidney failure and cardiac arrest

'Spice is phenomenally cheap and it's constantly changing. The Spice we see today isn't the Spice we'll see tomorrow.

'The reality is that if we could fill the streets of Manchester with police officers, we would have a chance at cracking this issue.

'Things are more difficult now because we've lost a quarter of our officers because of cuts.'

The North West Ambulance Service (NWAS) spokesperson said: 'The Trust has seen an increase in the number of 999 calls received following the use of psychoactive substances

'We have noticed a particular increase in calls to patients who are under the influence of these substances in Greater Manchester although we are unable to give specific figures.

'Unfortunately a wide range of people are falling victim to these substances and the detrimental effects they can have.

'They can cause very unpredictable symptoms including violent behaviour, which makes it difficult for ambulance crews to manage the patient's condition.

'We are working with police and other agencies to address the problem.

'We would urge anyone to consider the health risks and wider consequences of taking illicit drugs and illegal highs.'

In Blackpool users have been seen in business doorways and on the high street in 'unstable positions'.

Councillor Tony Williams said: 'This can kill people and it turns them into zombies. Not only do these people need help, they need taking off our streets.'

Mark Butcher, a leading figure with the Amazing Graze soup kitchen in Blackpool, said volunteers are seeing more and more signs of use among those using the service.

Meanwhile in Blackpool residents have also complained of 'zombie-like' figures in the streets and have demanded more action be taken

He believes drug users are turning away from heroin to use the substance, which can have serious consequences.

Mr Butcher said: 'This is a bigger problem, bigger than any other drug right now. People are coming in on this stuff and it completely changes them.

'You just don’t know what they are going to be like, you don’t know what is in this stuff, what it’s going to do to people. They can change in a second.

'This stuff is so cheap, it’s not like heroin where a user might struggle to find the money, might turn to crime to get the next hit.

'It’s everywhere, we are seeing it all the time, people coming in to the kitchen on this stuff.

'They need help, something needs to be done about it. People are telling me they are off it, but you can tell they aren’t. They need help, we need to get rid of this stuff.'

Lancashire Police insists it is committed to the fight against Spice but made clear Blackpool residents should not be alarmed.

A spokesman said: 'These substances are dangerous and if you take something which is not natural, the effects can be damaging.

'Our advice remains that people should not take them as they simply have no idea what they could contain or the health risks involved.

'We recognise such behaviour can be concerning for residents and holidaymakers and are working with our partners, both supporting these individuals and taking enforcement action where appropriate.'