16 Parchment-Wrapped Dinners For People Who Hate Dishes
16 Healthy Dinners Cooked In Parchment Paper
Cooking in parchment paper packets, aka "en papillote", is a long-standing French technique. These recipes are perfect make-ahead dinners you can pop in the oven for a mess-free meal anytime (although you should cook fish recipes no more than one day after prepping, and chicken no more than two). Tin foil can be substituted for any of these recipes, but parchment is the classic choice. Foil sometimes reacts with the acid in foods (like marinades), which can make the food taste off. Learn how to pull off the classic "en papillote" fold below, and get your crimp on with these 16 recipes!                                                                             This recipe adds serious flavor to (sometimes sad) boneless, skinless chicken breasts. Sweet mango, spicy jalapeño and fresh ginger steam this chicken in a flavor-packed pouch. Get the recipe here .                                   This recipe uses a secret ingredient (miso butter) to steam salmon in a savory sauna of umami goodness. Bonus: The parchment packet keeps your house from smelling like fish. Get the recipe here .                                              Unwrap a rainbow of veggies that coincidentally are Whole-30-friendly after just 18 minutes in the oven. Get the recipe here .                                              Healthy, flavorful and ready in 20 minutes. Get the recipe here .                                   Opening this present is like unwrapping a burst of delicious springtime flavors. Get the recipe here .                                   This recipe is everything you love about clam linguine wrapped into a low-carb, mess-free package. Get the recipe here .                                              This classic stunner only has eight ingredients and can be made in less than 30 minutes. Get the recipe here .                                   This tiny pouch brightens up simple chicken thanks to the trio of lemon, oregano, and feta. Get the recipe here .                                              Pro tip: use soaked rice noodles for an even quicker variation of this easy to make dinner. Get the recipe here .                                   If asparagus isn't your thing, feel free to substitute with sliced zucchini or eggplant. Get the recipe here .                                   Shiitake mushrooms add serious earthiness to this easy and vegan-friendly dinner made with only seven ingredients. Get the recipe here .                                   Remembering to marinate the chicken in garlic and lemon at least 10 minutes before baking is so, so worth it. Get the recipe here .                                   A little lemon butter adds extra pop to this peppy packet. Get the recipe here .                                   Breakfast without dirty dishes sounds like the perfect morning to me. Get the recipe here .                                              Use whatever vegetables you have on hand as the bed of this succulent salmon. Get the recipe here .                                              Artichokes, olives and, capers steam this cod to a flavorful, flaky perfection. Get the recipe here .

Cooking in parchment paper packets, aka "en papillote", is a long-standing French technique. These recipes are perfect make-ahead dinners you can pop in the oven for a mess-free meal anytime (although you should cook fish recipes no more than one day after prepping, and chicken no more than two).

Tin foil can be substituted for any of these recipes, but parchment is the classic choice. Foil sometimes reacts with the acid in foods (like marinades), which can make the food taste off. Learn how to pull off the classic "en papillote" fold below, and get your crimp on with these 16 recipes!