Travel back to a black-and-white Mac interface with this Apple emulator
Travel back to a black-and-white Mac interface with this Apple emulator
About 25 years ago, Apple released what was considered by some to be the most elegant personal computing interface available at the time, MacOS 7.0.1. Apple's System 7 interface hasn't aged as well as other relics from 1991, like and Nirvana's , but the ancient computing platform nevertheless retains a certain charm. Now, thanks to the Internet Archive, you can experience some of that old school computing magic using your existing computer and a web browser. SEE ALSO: Drone footage gives you a breathtaking glimpse of Apple campus The black-and-white graphical user interface was a simple but powerful tool that allowed anyone to use applications like Microsoft Word, BBEdit Lite, HyperCard, Microsoft Excel and design tools like Pagemaker, MacDraw, MacPaint. Part of the affection for System 7 was not only due to its simplicity and ease of use, but its place in history. For many, the system served as the nine-inch window into the early versions of the mainstream Internet. The Internet Archive's emulator lets you launch the operating system and use many of the applications that were popular at the time, including games like And if you really want the full cave computing experience, there's an option to go full screen, which will make your current PC truly look like it's running MacOS 7.0.1. What's the point? Well, beyond pure geek love of our computing roots, it's a great reminder to appreciate just how amazing that current touchscreen interface you'r using to run 10 apps at the same time really is. WATCH: The first teaser for 'The Last Jedi' is here and OMG

About 25 years ago, Apple released what was considered by some to be the most elegant personal computing interface available at the time, MacOS 7.0.1.

Apple's System 7 interface hasn't aged as well as other relics from 1991, like Terminator 2: Judgment Day and Nirvana's Nevermind, but the ancient computing platform nevertheless retains a certain charm. Now, thanks to the Internet Archive, you can experience some of that old school computing magic using your existing computer and a web browser.

SEE ALSO: Drone footage gives you a breathtaking glimpse of Apple campus

The black-and-white graphical user interface was a simple but powerful tool that allowed anyone to use applications like Microsoft Word, BBEdit Lite, HyperCard, Microsoft Excel and design tools like Pagemaker, MacDraw, MacPaint.

Part of the affection for System 7 was not only due to its simplicity and ease of use, but its place in history. For many, the system served as the nine-inch window into the early versions of the mainstream Internet.

The Internet Archive's emulator lets you launch the operating system and use many of the applications that were popular at the time, including games like Risk, Cannon Fodder, and Shufflepuck.

And if you really want the full cave computing experience, there's an option to go full screen, which will make your current PC truly look like it's running MacOS 7.0.1.

What's the point? Well, beyond pure geek love of our computing roots, it's a great reminder to appreciate just how amazing that current touchscreen interface you'r using to run 10 apps at the same time really is.