Heroics of WW2 seaman who rescued four comrades revealed
Heroics of WW2 seaman revealed as his George Cross goes on sale


The prestigious George Cross, which was awarded to a heroic seaman who rescued four comrades from a blazing cargo ship, is being sold for an estimated £140,000.

Chief Officer George Stronach was thrown 30ft into the air and knocked unconscious when a bombing raid caused a massive explosion and fire on his ship.

When he came round minutes later he realised the captain was dead, so he ordered the crew to abandon ship.

Despite being knocked unconscious Chief Officer George Stronach spent 80 minutes looking for survivors in the burning boat

But instead of following his own orders he spent 80 minutes looking for survivors while thousands of tonnes of ammunition and aircraft fuel ignited around him.

Dousing himself with water from a hose to protect himself, Chief Officer Stronach searched through the ship.

He found one of the officers unconscious and badly burned and dragged him along the deck to a lowered lifeboat.

He then found another crew-mate trapped by debris, freed him and pulled him through a porthole before lowering him down to the boat.

As the situation became increasingly desperate, he went back again to find a third severely injured officer who he took to the side of the ship and lowered to a raft.

An artist's rendition of Stronach, who doused himself in water to protect himself, rescuing a wounded seaman from the stricken Ocean Voyager

Taking a final look round, he found a greaser lying unconscious. As there was no raft or boat alongside he threw him overboard.

Finally satisfied there were no more survivors, Chief Officer Stronach jumped overboard and swam to a raft.

He then directed the raft back to save the greaser - who tragically died of his injuries.

The heroic action took place on board the Ocean Voyager anchored off Tripoli, a major supply port for the Allies in Libya, in 1943.

Chief Officer Stronach was a highly-decorated officer and was awarded, among others, the George Cross, the 1939-45 Star, the Atlantic Star and the Africa Star (from left to right)

The seaman was awarded the George Cross - the highest British gallantry decoration for someone not in the armed forces.

Stronach's was one of just three awarded to merchant seamen during the Second World War.

His decorations have remained in the family for the past 74 years but Chief Officer Stronach's daughter, who lives in Scotland, has now reluctantly decided to put them up for auction. She will donate some of the proceeds to charity.

The steel and sacrifice of British mariners in the Mediterranean HMS Nelson in action in the Mediterranean in 1942 The Battle of the Atlantic was perhaps the Royal Navy's most famous engagement during World War 2. But the bravery and sacrifice of British servicemen in the Mediterranean was just as crucial to the war effort. Britain held three crucial strategic points of Gibraltar, Malta and the Suez Canal, which kept vital supply routes open. Initially the Royal Navy thought it could leave the western Mediterranean in the care of the French navy. But after they surrendered in 1940 a handful of Royal Navy ships were left to defend against the combined might of the Italian Navy and Air Force, alongside Hitler's Luftwaffe and U-boats. This left merchant ships like Chief Officer Stronach's Ocean Voyager incredibly vulnerable to attack as there weren't enough British ships to defend them all. The battle came to an end in 1943, when Italy surrendered to the Allies. By this time the combined might of British and American forces had made the Mediterranean much safer for transport ships.

She said: 'I am extremely proud of my father, for he was a very fine man in every way. I think it could be said of him, as of so many others, that he was a 'reluctant hero'.

'He never spoke about the the war although I know that he never forgot it or those of his ship who were lost during the bombing raid in Tripoli.

'Indeed, one of his greatest wishes was to have been able to visit the Commonwealth War Graves cemetery there in order to pay his respects to his shipmates.

'With regard to the medals and archive being offered for sale, I have had the privilege of being the custodian of his awards since he passed them into my safe-keeping nearly 30 years ago.

'However, I feel that the time has now come for me to pass them on safely to a new owner.

'It is my sincere hope that whoever purchases this archive will honour all of it and display the items for the public to view and ponder on.

London auctioneer Pierce Noonan described Stronach as a 'quiet, reserved Scotsman who showed amazing calmness and courage'

'Following the sale, it is my intention to give some of the proceeds to a charitable organisation in his memory and I am currently looking into which would be the most suitable for this purpose.'

Pierce Noonan, of London auctioneer Dix Noonan Webb, said: 'George Stronach was a quiet, reserved Scotsman who showed amazing calmness and courage as the ammunition below decks on Ocean Voyager began to explode.

'Realising that the ship itself was doomed, he set about rescuing as many of his injured shipmates as he could, putting their lives above his own survival.

'There have been few better examples of such unselfish heroism in the distinguished history of the George Cross.'

Chief Officer Stronach was born in Port Gordon in Scotland in 1914.

He joined the Merchant Navy and was regularly promoted, becoming a Chief Officer in March 1941. He transferred to Ocean Voyager in August 1942.

The Luftwaffe attack happened on March 19, 1943.

The George Cross is Britain's highest award for civilian gallantry

The citation for his George Cross described his 'gallant efforts undertaken with utter disregard of his personal safety' and added 'his action equals any in the annals of the Merchant Navy for great and unselfish heroism and determination in the face of overwhelming odds'.

Chief Officer Stronach, describing the bombing raid in the wartime newspaper Parade, said: 'There were two direct hits through the bridge. I don't quite know what happened then.

'I was thrown about 30 feet right out into the starboard scuppers. It was a few seconds before I realised that I was still alive.

'My left trouser leg had been torn off. My left eye and the whole of my left side seemed affected by the shock.'

In later life, Chief Officer Stronach was a marine pilot on the Clyde. He retired in 1979 and lived in Argyllshire, where he died aged 81 in 1999.

George Stronach's daughter said she was 'extremely proud' of my father and that, like so many others, he was a 'reluctant hero'

Stronach's decorations and medals consist of a George Cross, 1939-45 Star, Atlantic Star, Africa Star with clasp North Africa 1942-3, War Medal 1939-45, Elizabeth II Coronation Medal 1953, Elizabeth II Silver Jubilee Medal 1977 and the Lloyd's War Medal for Bravery at Sea.

They are accompanied by an archive of original material including letters of gratitude from two of the men whose lives he saved.

The auction takes place on May 10.