George Clinton at Coachella 2017: 'The Older You Get, The Fresher Funk Gets'
George Clinton at Coachella 2017: 'The Older You Get, The Fresher Funk Gets'
Coachella 2017 Photos: Surprise Guests -- Drake, The Weeknd & More! Coachella 2017: Hip-Hop and Dance Pile on the Surprises, Lady Gaga Debuts New Song & Other Day 2 Highlights Future Zips Through His Hits, Shares Spotlight with Migos & Drake at Coachella 2017 From Rihanna to Beyonce, 15 Artists Who Rocked Coachella Style Better Than Everyone Else George Clinton at Coachella 2017: 'The Older You Get, The Fresher Funk Gets'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  At 75, funk legend George Clinton may have been the oldest performer at this year's Coachella, but he's not slowing down any time soon. Backstage at the Heineken House, just after he and his revolving door of P-Funk Allstars laid down two hours of jams (including staples like "Atomic Dog," as well as newer material), Clinton spoke withÂ Â about theÂ new Parliament albumÂ in the works.Â "It's called ," Clinton said.Â "It's about the pharmaceutical companies, insurance companies, people selling meds!"Â This was the funk pioneer's first time on the Indio field for the fest, but he and his myriad bands have decades of festival experience. "It reminded me of the European festivals," he said. "Glastonbury and all of those, I've done those over and over. It reminds me of the Woodstock thing -- we've done that!"  Clinton was bummed, however, that he missed his buddy Thundercat 's set earlier in the day. The jazzy bassist and Clinton jammed with Michael McDonald earlier this year in Utah, but Clinton and he hadn't connected before his set earlier on Saturday. "I didn't even know he was here," Clinton exclaimed, clearly disappointed. Clinton long ago shed his trademark dreads ("I'm old! Your hair starts falling out, and there's nothing to attach them to!") but he's not giving up music. "Funk is always gonna be fresh," he said. "The older you get,Â the fresher it gets."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

At 75, funk legend George Clinton may have been the oldest performer at this year's Coachella, but he's not slowing down any time soon. Backstage at the Heineken House, just after he and his revolving door of P-Funk Allstars laid down two hours of jams (including staples like "Atomic Dog," as well as newer material), Clinton spoke withÂ BillboardÂ about theÂ new Parliament albumÂ in the works.Â

"It's called Medicaid Fraud Dog," Clinton said.Â "It's about the pharmaceutical companies, insurance companies, people selling meds!"Â

This was the funk pioneer's first time on the Indio field for the fest, but he and his myriad bands have decades of festival experience. "It reminded me of the European festivals," he said. "Glastonbury and all of those, I've done those over and over. It reminds me of the Woodstock thing -- we've done that!"

Clinton was bummed, however, that he missed his buddy Thundercat's set earlier in the day. The jazzy bassist and Clinton jammed with Michael McDonald earlier this year in Utah, but Clinton and he hadn't connected before his set earlier on Saturday. "I didn't even know he was here," Clinton exclaimed, clearly disappointed.

Clinton long ago shed his trademark dreads ("I'm old! Your hair starts falling out, and there's nothing to attach them to!") but he's not giving up music. "Funk is always gonna be fresh," he said. "The older you get,Â the fresher it gets."