Vice President Mike Pence makes surprise visit to Korean Demilitarized Zone
Vice President Mike Pence makes surprise visit to Korean Demilitarized Zone
Shares               Vice President Mike Pence is making a surprise visit to the Korean Demilitarized Zone while touring the Asia-Pacific region for the first time since taking office. Pence landed via helicopter at Camp Bonifas, about a mile from the southern boundary of the zone, around 8:30 p.m. ET. He will be receiving a security briefing from Gen. Vincent Brooks, the commander of U.S. Forces Korea, and will then visit the Freedom House observation post in the Korean DMZ. The visit comes just a day after North Korea's failed missile launch, and one month since Secretary of State Rex Tillerson 's visit to the DMZ, where he was notably photographed by a North Korean soldier standing on the other side of an observation post. Briefly addressing reporters in Camp Bonifas, Pence praised the "unshakeable bond" between the U.S. and Korean people. "My father served in the Korean War with the U.S. Army, and on the way here, we actually saw some of the terrain my father fought alongside Korean forces to help earn your freedom," Pence said. "It’s a great honor to be with all of our forces." Shares                  Vice President Mike Pence makes surprise visit to Korean Demilitarized Zone   Trump's rhetoric on North Korea 'makes people nervous' but actions are positive: former US envoy   Trump on protests demanding he release his taxes: 'The election is over'   Biggest concern is that Kim Jong Un will 'miscalculate,' US military official says   Trump ‘will take action’ to end any North Korea threat to US: top security adviser   'This Week' Transcript: High Alert | North Korea   Pence arrives in South Korea following North's failed launch   Tax Day protesters across US demand Trump release tax returns   Melissa McCarthy returns to 'SNL' as Spicer, Baldwin reprises Trump   Pence aims to reassure allies as tension mounts with North Korea   Bernie Sanders gets the scoop from Ben & Jerry's workers   Sunday on ‘This Week’: High Alert | North Korea   North Korea's attempted missile launch explodes on liftoff, U.S. officials say   Supreme Court, with Gorsuch, set to hear church-state case   Will free college offer catch fire? NY details raise doubts   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients

Vice President Mike Pence is making a surprise visit to the Korean Demilitarized Zone while touring the Asia-Pacific region for the first time since taking office.

Pence landed via helicopter at Camp Bonifas, about a mile from the southern boundary of the zone, around 8:30 p.m. ET. He will be receiving a security briefing from Gen. Vincent Brooks, the commander of U.S. Forces Korea, and will then visit the Freedom House observation post in the Korean DMZ.

The visit comes just a day after North Korea's failed missile launch, and one month since Secretary of State Rex Tillerson's visit to the DMZ, where he was notably photographed by a North Korean soldier standing on the other side of an observation post.

Briefly addressing reporters in Camp Bonifas, Pence praised the "unshakeable bond" between the U.S. and Korean people.

"My father served in the Korean War with the U.S. Army, and on the way here, we actually saw some of the terrain my father fought alongside Korean forces to help earn your freedom," Pence said. "It’s a great honor to be with all of our forces."