Secret UK tomb found to contain remains of 5 archbishops
Secret UK tomb found to contain remains of 5 archbishops
Shares                A London museum has revealed that the remains of five archbishops of Canterbury were discovered inside a secret tomb beneath its building. The Garden Museum posted a statement and video Sunday revealing the find, which was made more than a year ago. The museum sits on a site that used to house the former St. Mary-at-Lambeth Church and is located next to Lambeth Palace, the archbishop of Canterbury's London residence. The remains were found while builders were renovating the building. They lifted some slabs to reveal a hidden crypt. Garden Museum director Christopher Woodward says five archbishops were buried in the tomb, including Richard Bancroft. Bancroft became archbishop in 1604 and played a major role in production of the King James Bible. The remains of the others have not been identified. Shares                  Secret UK tomb found to contain remains of 5 archbishops   Biggest concern is that Kim Jong Un will 'miscalculate,' US military official says   North Korea's attempted missile launch explodes on liftoff, U.S. officials say   Supreme Court, with Gorsuch, set to hear church-state case   United changes policy, crew can't displace seated passengers   Will free college offer catch fire? NY details raise doubts   Death toll in Sri Lanka garbage mound collapse rises to 26   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   Pence arrives in South Korea following North's failed launch   Man who threatened Jews on metal music site faces sentencing   Pope decries 'vile' attack on Syrians in Easter address   Which state sends most taxes to DC? Hint: It's not a state   Lawmakers across US move to include young people in voting   Seafood joins fair trade revolution, a scallop at a time   Deals ensure cash keeps flowing to unsettled Prince estate   Slain jogger's hands held DNA that led to suspect's arrest   Georgia officials dismiss 89 cases linked to fired officers shown kicking, punching motorist   Border wall could leave some Americans on 'Mexican side'   Dairy farmers worry about trade to Mexico   Trump's 'deportation force' begins to take shape   Roadside memorials a tricky matter for mourners, officials   Trump attends Easter service in Palm Beach   'Fast and the Furious' on road to record global debut   Coachella: Radiohead walks off stage twice due to technical difficulties

A London museum has revealed that the remains of five archbishops of Canterbury were discovered inside a secret tomb beneath its building.

The Garden Museum posted a statement and video Sunday revealing the find, which was made more than a year ago.

The museum sits on a site that used to house the former St. Mary-at-Lambeth Church and is located next to Lambeth Palace, the archbishop of Canterbury's London residence.

The remains were found while builders were renovating the building. They lifted some slabs to reveal a hidden crypt.

Garden Museum director Christopher Woodward says five archbishops were buried in the tomb, including Richard Bancroft.

Bancroft became archbishop in 1604 and played a major role in production of the King James Bible.

The remains of the others have not been identified.