Justice Markanday Katju Supports Former Army General On Kashmiri Human Shield Issue, Compares Singer Abhijeet To A Donkey
Justice Katju Comes To Support Of Ex-Army General Compares Singer Abhijeet To A Donkey
Justice Katju Supports Former Army General On Kashmiri Human Shield Issue, Compares Singer Abhijeet To A Donkey Retired Lieutenant General HS Panag is now getting massive support on Twitter for saying that a civilian tied to an army jeep in Kashmir as a "human shield" against stone-pelters "will haunt the Indian Army."  Fomer Supreme Court judge Markanday Katju had a particularly scathing response today, for those who trolled General Panag on Twitter, especially failed Bollywood singer Abhijeet.  @abhijeetsinger Little Brown Shirt,even at this age,I can give the terrorists a lesson,as also to an upstart like u!  Abhijeet is the person who said about a notorious hit-and-run case resulting in death: "Roads are meant for cars and dogs not for people sleeping on them."  Two days ago, General Panag had on Twitter criticized the , saying they had no choice but to use the man as a "human shield" against stone-pelters in a neighbourhood an Army convoy had to go through. General Panag tweeted:  Image of a 'stone pelter' tied in front of a jeep as a 'human shield',will 4 ever haunt the Indian Army&the nation!  The retired general later reiterated what he believed, tweeting that "whatever the provocation, the Indian Army cannot take recourse to illegal acts."  @abhijeetsinger Little Brown Shirt,even at this age,I can give the terrorists a lesson,as also to an upstart like u!  Several people on Twitter came out to commend the retired General's "courage" in the face of 'fake patriotism'.  Beats me how he gets away with such badtameezi. Such a terrible blot on the artist community. Apologies to @rwac48  pic.twitter.com/1cxBm7RRgz

Retired Lieutenant General HS Panag is now getting massive support on Twitter for saying that a civilian tied to an army jeep in Kashmir as a "human shield" against stone-pelters "will haunt the Indian Army."

BCCL

Fomer Supreme Court judge Markanday Katju had a particularly scathing response today, for those who trolled General Panag on Twitter, especially failed Bollywood singer Abhijeet.

@abhijeetsinger Little Brown Shirt,even at this age,I can give the terrorists a lesson,as also to an upstart like u! — Lt Gen H S Panag(R) (@rwac48) 16 April 2017

Abhijeet is the person who said about a notorious hit-and-run case resulting in death: "Roads are meant for cars and dogs not for people sleeping on them."

Two days ago, General Panag had on Twitter criticized the Indian Army for tying a civilian to the front of a jeep, saying they had no choice but to use the man as a "human shield" against stone-pelters in a neighbourhood an Army convoy had to go through.

General Panag tweeted:

Image of a 'stone pelter' tied in front of a jeep as a 'human shield',will 4 ever haunt the Indian Army&the nation! — Lt Gen H S Panag(R) (@rwac48) 15 April 2017

The retired general later reiterated what he believed, tweeting that "whatever the provocation, the Indian Army cannot take recourse to illegal acts."

@abhijeetsinger Little Brown Shirt,even at this age,I can give the terrorists a lesson,as also to an upstart like u! — Lt Gen H S Panag(R) (@rwac48) 16 April 2017

Several people on Twitter came out to commend the retired General's "courage" in the face of 'fake patriotism'.

Beats me how he gets away with such badtameezi. Such a terrible blot on the artist community. Apologies to @rwac48 pic.twitter.com/1cxBm7RRgz — Chinmayi Sripaada (@Chinmayi) 16 April 2017

Don't Miss 124.8 K SHARES 45.2 K SHARES 62.5 K SHARES 30.4 K SHARES 27.3 K SHARES

Many said this wasn't the way to talk to a person who served India in the Army.

Indian Army veterans also came out in his support.