Italy plucks 2,000 migrants from the Mediterranean Sea
Italy plucks 2,000 migrants from the Mediterranean Sea
Shares                Italian rescue ships have plucked some 2,000 migrants from unseaworthy smugglers' boats off the coast of Libya, with hundreds of them arriving Saturday in southern Italian ports. One rescue ship brought 504 migrants and one corpse to Pozzallo, Sicily, and another boat brought about 500 other migrants to Augusta, Sicily. In all, Italy's coast guard coordinated about 20 separate rescues on Friday. The rest of the migrants were due to reach Calabria on the Italian mainland on Sunday. Separately, authorities said Saturday that 40 Algerians in three small boats had reached Sardinia's coast. So far this year, some 29,000 migrants, most of them fleeing poverty in sub-Saharan Africa, have arrived in Italy after being rescued by European military ships or private charity organizations. Their numbers are expected to rise with spring's good weather. In Spain, the country's maritime rescue said Saturday it had rescued 125 migrants in three small boats trying to make nighttime crossings from Africa in three smuggling boats. The first boat, carrying 41 men and 11 women of sub-Saharan origin, was located by rescue teams shortly after midnight in the Alboran Sea east of the Strait of Gibraltar. A second group of 62 North African males, including 11 minors, was packed into a wooden boat when rescued just west of the Strait in the Atlantic Ocean. Eleven more migrants were pulled from a small vessel in the Mediterranean Sea after a NATO aircraft alerted the rescue service. ——— Joseph Wilson in Barcelona, Spain, contributed to this story. Shares                  Italy plucks 2,000 migrants from the Mediterranean Sea   Vice President Pence declares end to 'strategic patience' on North Korea   Biggest concern is that Kim Jong Un will 'miscalculate,' US military official says   Turkey votes to expand president's powers; critics cry fraud   Dozens still missing in Sri Lankan garbage collapse; 29 dead   Arkansas fights on multiple legal fronts to begin executions   France's would-be presidents rally in Paris days before vote   Classes to resume a week after shooting at California school   Mass evacuation in Syria postponed after blast kills 80 kids   Supreme Court, with Gorsuch, set to hear church-state case   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Dog gets too small doggie bed but is 'still grateful'   Groundbreaking female football player shares advice for young girls   How a bunny, baskets and eggs got connected with Easter   Toddler with 'childhood Alzheimer's' symptoms gets experimental treatment   Holiday-loving couple shows off epic Easter decorations, including 6,000 eggs   Nurse's elaborate dry-erase artwork brings cheer to his child patients   Pence arrives in South Korea following North's failed launch   Vegas journalist arrested at Trump rally released from jail   Pope decries 'vile' attack on Syrians in Easter address   Lawmakers across US move to include young people in voting   United changes policy, crew can't displace seated passengers   Slain jogger's hands held DNA that led to suspect's arrest   Georgia officials dismiss 89 cases linked to fired officers shown kicking, punching motorist   Roadside memorials a tricky matter for mourners, officials   Trump attends Easter service in Palm Beach   'Fate and the Furious' on road to record global debut   Coachella: Radiohead walks off stage twice due to technical difficulties

Italian rescue ships have plucked some 2,000 migrants from unseaworthy smugglers' boats off the coast of Libya, with hundreds of them arriving Saturday in southern Italian ports.

One rescue ship brought 504 migrants and one corpse to Pozzallo, Sicily, and another boat brought about 500 other migrants to Augusta, Sicily.

In all, Italy's coast guard coordinated about 20 separate rescues on Friday. The rest of the migrants were due to reach Calabria on the Italian mainland on Sunday.

Separately, authorities said Saturday that 40 Algerians in three small boats had reached Sardinia's coast.

So far this year, some 29,000 migrants, most of them fleeing poverty in sub-Saharan Africa, have arrived in Italy after being rescued by European military ships or private charity organizations. Their numbers are expected to rise with spring's good weather.

In Spain, the country's maritime rescue said Saturday it had rescued 125 migrants in three small boats trying to make nighttime crossings from Africa in three smuggling boats.

The first boat, carrying 41 men and 11 women of sub-Saharan origin, was located by rescue teams shortly after midnight in the Alboran Sea east of the Strait of Gibraltar. A second group of 62 North African males, including 11 minors, was packed into a wooden boat when rescued just west of the Strait in the Atlantic Ocean.

Eleven more migrants were pulled from a small vessel in the Mediterranean Sea after a NATO aircraft alerted the rescue service.

———

Joseph Wilson in Barcelona, Spain, contributed to this story.