Tobacco plants are being used to grow human skin proteins
Tobacco plants are being used to grow human skin proteins


Tobacco plants are being used to grow human skin proteins for a new way to treat tendon injuries such as tennis elbow.

The quick-growing plants have been genetically engineered to produce leaves with collagen – the main component of the body's connective tissues which include tendons, ligaments, bones and skin.

Tendons are the stretchy tissue that attaches muscle to bone, and helps move the bones and joints when muscles contract.

Tobacco plants (pictured) are being used to grow human skin proteins in a bid to treat patients

An injury such as lateral epicondylitis – more commonly known as tennis elbow – is an inflammation of the elbow tendon which can happen during exercise or can be the result of repetitive daily activities, including regularly using a computer keyboard and mouse.

Repetitive wrist and forearm movement leads to degeneration of the collagen-rich 'scaffolding' in the tissue and it loses its strength and becomes fragile and easily injured.

Typical treatment for tendon-related injuries ranges from ice packs and painkillers to physiotherapy. Surgery is not always effective.

The new treatment involves drawing blood from the patient. It is put through a separation process to make it rich in platelets – the blood cells responsible for clotting and containing growth factors to promote healing.

The quick-growing plants have been genetically engineered to produce leaves with collagen and can treat injuries such as tennis elbow

The platelet-rich blood is then added to collagen extracted from the tobacco plants, and reinjected into the affected area to trigger the healing process.

Using plants means there is no risk of disease transfer from a human host or fear of rejection. The treatment can also be used for healing chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers, venous ulcers, bed sores and burns.

'This is an exciting advance in the field of regenerative medicine,' says Dominic Power, consultant hand and peripheral nerve surgeon at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham.

'It is likely that the technology will be applied to other areas where reconstruction is needed.'