Sonu Nigam Tweets About Morning Azaan On Loudspeakers, Faces Backlash For Calling It ‘Forced Religiousness’
Sonu Nigam Tweets About Morning Azaan, Faces Backlash For Calling It 'Forced Religiousness'
Sonu Nigam Tweets About Morning Azaan On Loudspeakers, Faces Backlash For Calling It ‘Forced Religiousness’ Early in the morning, Sonu Nigam tweeted a controversial opinion about Azaan and Muslims and left the social media furious. The renowned playback singer who is known for his soft and melodious voice was apparently “forced” to wake up by Azaan, which switched on his complaining mode, leading him to take several digs at Muslims and Azaan. The singer was agitated to an extent that he called it “gundagardi.” God bless everyone. I'm not a Muslim and I have to be woken up by the Azaan in the morning. When will this forced religiousness end in India Azaan is a call to prayer given by the muezzin of a mosque, five times a day. The first call is given early in the morning. According to Islam, Azaan is the first thing that a newborn child should hear. And by the way Mohammed did not have electricity when he made Islam.. Why do I have to have this cacophony after Edison? Sonu also stated that Temples and Gurudwaras shouldn't as well wake up people up by using loudspeakers early in the morning. I don't believe in any temple or gurudwara using electricity To wake up people who don't follow the religion . Why then..? Honest? True? Furthermore, he labelled the practice as "gundagardi." Gundagardi hai bus... Twitterati didn't spare him for his remarks as he received backlash on Twitter. @sonunigam I am a fan of urs but this was definitely a bullshit statement. U gotta respect other religions beliefs. It's a democratic country. @sonunigam For my all time fav bollywood singer to tweet in Such a disrespectful manner is ridiculous. I have lost all respect for you

Early in the morning, Sonu Nigam tweeted a controversial opinion about Azaan and Muslims and left the social media furious.

The renowned playback singer who is known for his soft and melodious voice was apparently “forced” to wake up by Azaan, which switched on his complaining mode, leading him to take several digs at Muslims and Azaan. The singer was agitated to an extent that he called it “gundagardi.”

editplatter.com

God bless everyone. I'm not a Muslim and I have to be woken up by the Azaan in the morning. When will this forced religiousness end in India — Sonu Nigam (@sonunigam) April 16, 2017

Azaan is a call to prayer given by the muezzin of a mosque, five times a day. The first call is given early in the morning. According to Islam, Azaan is the first thing that a newborn child should hear.

And by the way Mohammed did not have electricity when he made Islam.. Why do I have to have this cacophony after Edison? — Sonu Nigam (@sonunigam) April 17, 2017

Sonu also stated that Temples and Gurudwaras shouldn't as well wake up people up by using loudspeakers early in the morning.

I don't believe in any temple or gurudwara using electricity To wake up people who don't follow the religion . Why then..? Honest? True? — Sonu Nigam (@sonunigam) April 17, 2017

Furthermore, he labelled the practice as "gundagardi."

Gundagardi hai bus... — Sonu Nigam (@sonunigam) April 17, 2017

Twitterati didn't spare him for his remarks as he received backlash on Twitter.

@sonunigam I am a fan of urs but this was definitely a bullshit statement. U gotta respect other religions beliefs. It's a democratic country. — Madhur Chandna (@macchandna) April 17, 2017

@sonunigam For my all time fav bollywood singer to tweet in Such a disrespectful manner is ridiculous. I have lost all respect for you — Asam (@Asam__A) April 17, 2017

Don't Miss 10.1 K SHARES 12.2 K SHARES 16 K SHARES 25.6 K SHARES

@sonunigam India is a secular country, u cant say such things. So many Muslims out there... should they not be called to prayer, cuz you get disturbed? — Saniya Pathan (@saaniisweet) April 17, 2017

@sonunigam So true.Only cows should be made to moo in morning on loudspeaker in jugalbadi with Sonu to remind u not to eat beef https://t.co/WuulAAn8BR — #DestroyTheAadhaar (@Stupidosaur) April 17, 2017

@sonunigam Learn to accept & respect our religious differences. Living in a multi-religious society demands some tolerance. — =) (@smiles61446) April 17, 2017

@sonunigam Sonu Nigam must have forgot he started his carrier by singing bhajans in mata ki chowkis using loud speakers & electricity — alok kumar shorewala (@alokmili77) April 17, 2017