Kanpur's 'Calculator Girl' Dilpreet Kaur Sets 11 National And Two World Records In A Year
Kanpur's 'Calculator Girl' Dilpreet Kaur Sets 11 National And Two World Records In A Year
Kanpur's 'Calculator Girl' Dilpreet Kaur Sets 11 National And Two World Records In A Year A class 10th student from the industrial town has sent the records tumbling , setting 13 Limca Book of records in just a year. Nicknamed for most number of mathematical calculations in a minute, that too in a short span of one year. She received her certificates for her feat on Saturday. In an event organized and supervised by district administration, railway officials and others in the city on August 25, 2016, she had made 11 record by doing 11 mathematical calculations in a record time, ranging from 15.83 sec to 1.36 minute. All 11 records of Dilpreet were accepted in October last year. In total, Dilpreet, till date had set 14 records which includes two world records, Limca Book of Records authorities said. "She has become the first person to achieve the feat of bagging a maximum of 13 records in just a span of one year, which is a rare feat in the history of Limca Book of Records," Anant Kasibhatla, member of the Limca Book of Records team said Her father Manjeet Singh, a mathematics teacher, encouraged her by giving her bigger numbers to solve. "To improve her skill, we suggested her to follow ancient Abacus theory to perform mathematical functions like multiplication, division, addition, subtraction, square root and cube root," Singh said. The district administration has also written to ministry of child development to acknowledge her mother Simran Kaur, also a teacher, said. The district magistrate has also made a recommendation to chief minister  for  acknowledging her talent and rewarding her.

A class 10th student from the industrial town has sent the records tumbling , setting 13 Limca Book of records in just a year.

Nicknamed 'Calculator Girl', Dilpreet Kaur set 11 national and two world records for most number of mathematical calculations in a minute, that too in a short span of one year. She received her certificates for her feat on Saturday.

Facebook

In an event organized and supervised by district administration, railway officials and others in the city on August 25, 2016, she had made 11 record by doing 11 mathematical calculations in a record time, ranging from 15.83 sec to 1.36 minute. All 11 records of Dilpreet were accepted in October last year.

In total, Dilpreet, till date had set 14 records which includes two world records, Limca Book of Records authorities said. "She has become the first person to achieve the feat of bagging a maximum of 13 records in just a span of one year, which is a rare feat in the history of Limca Book of Records," Anant Kasibhatla, member of the Limca Book of Records team said Her father Manjeet Singh, a mathematics teacher, encouraged her by giving her bigger numbers to solve. "To improve her skill, we suggested her to follow ancient Abacus theory to perform mathematical functions like multiplication, division, addition, subtraction, square root and cube root," Singh said.

Facebook

The district administration has also written to ministry of child development to acknowledge her mother Simran Kaur, also a teacher, said.

The district magistrate has also made a recommendation to chief minister for acknowledging her talent and rewarding her.

Originally published in Times of India

Don't Miss 1.4 K SHARES 124.8 K SHARES 45.6 K SHARES 62.5 K SHARES 30.7 K SHARES