DBS BankVoice: How To Live Luxe For Less
DBS BankVoice: How To Live Luxe For Less
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  DBS Bank       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. There are more rich people squeezed onto our little red dot than most other places in the world. Specifically, there are over 100,000 millionaires and at least 26 billionaires who call Singapore home. That explains the frequent sightings of sports cars, fine dining restaurants and luxury handbags around town. Yet, the definition of luxury is changing and goes beyond just owning branded goods. Today, luxury is all about unique experiences that are meaningful to you; and one that doesn't have to cost a bomb. So for those seeking to experience their own luxe lifestyle, here are some hacks to help you live well without breaking the bank. Dining at a posh eatery doesn't only have to be for those with deep pockets. Many restaurants offer relatively affordable lunch set meals that give you a taste of the divine for a fraction of the cost. Italian restaurant Aura at the National Gallery, for example, has a weekday set lunch at only S$32++, while a mid-day meal at Les Amis Group's Japanese eatery Aoki is a very reasonable S$33++. You can also check out the DBS Lifestyle App for deals at a wide range of restaurants. Of course, there are menus whose prices will still be out of reach even in the daytime. A five-course lunch at Andre's - considered Singapore's best restaurant - is a mere $198++. With its convenience and "cut out the middle man" prices, e-commerce has been a boon for shopaholics. The good news is that you can also pick up luxury clothes, bags and other accessories online by signing up with members-only shopping clubs such as Gilt.com or SingSale , where you can virtually browse through hundreds of international brands at discounts of up to 80 per cent. You can also take advantage of the sharing economy with Style Theory . Pay a fixed monthly fee and you will receive three pieces of designer clothing in a box. Return those and your next three pieces will be on its way to your doorstep. Another option is to buy your luxury items second-hand. A great place to get your hands on 'pre-loved' items is Carousell , a mobile app that allows users to post their used items for sale in a range of categories, including luxury. Sick of budget "boutique" hotels? Live like a jetsetter abroad without going broke by booking through these websites that specialise in luxury hotels. Check out jetsetter , which provides deals on a range of high-end establishments broken down into three categories: Royal, Posh and Brilliant. The website's limited time deals of between five to 10 days offer a selection of hotels and tours at up to 40 per cent off the usual price. To get even more bang for your buck overseas, apply for a DBS multi-currency account that lets you pay for your purchases at preferred rates in 11 foreign currencies with no foreign exchange fees. Finally, luxury is no longer just about how much something costs. For some, having the time to read a book by their favourite author or a pre-dawn run in the park are indulgences that can't be bought with any amount of money. Rather these are the experiences that fulfill us. So seek out the daily luxuries that you can't live without and make time to fit these experiences into your busy day. You will feel all the richer for it! Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

There are more rich people squeezed onto our little red dot than most other places in the world. Specifically, there are over 100,000 millionaires and at least 26 billionaires who call Singapore home.

That explains the frequent sightings of sports cars, fine dining restaurants and luxury handbags around town. Yet, the definition of luxury is changing and goes beyond just owning branded goods. Today, luxury is all about unique experiences that are meaningful to you; and one that doesn't have to cost a bomb.

So for those seeking to experience their own luxe lifestyle, here are some hacks to help you live well without breaking the bank.

Indulge in fine dining for less

Dining at a posh eatery doesn't only have to be for those with deep pockets. Many restaurants offer relatively affordable lunch set meals that give you a taste of the divine for a fraction of the cost.

Italian restaurant Aura at the National Gallery, for example, has a weekday set lunch at only S$32++, while a mid-day meal at Les Amis Group's Japanese eatery Aoki is a very reasonable S$33++. You can also check out the DBS Lifestyle App for deals at a wide range of restaurants.

Of course, there are menus whose prices will still be out of reach even in the daytime. A five-course lunch at Andre's - considered Singapore's best restaurant - is a mere $198++.

Look like a million bucks on a dime

With its convenience and "cut out the middle man" prices, e-commerce has been a boon for shopaholics. The good news is that you can also pick up luxury clothes, bags and other accessories online by signing up with members-only shopping clubs such as Gilt.com or SingSale, where you can virtually browse through hundreds of international brands at discounts of up to 80 per cent.

You can also take advantage of the sharing economy with Style Theory. Pay a fixed monthly fee and you will receive three pieces of designer clothing in a box. Return those and your next three pieces will be on its way to your doorstep.

Another option is to buy your luxury items second-hand. A great place to get your hands on 'pre-loved' items is Carousell, a mobile app that allows users to post their used items for sale in a range of categories, including luxury.

Upsize your travels abroad

Sick of budget "boutique" hotels? Live like a jetsetter abroad without going broke by booking through these websites that specialise in luxury hotels.

Check out jetsetter, which provides deals on a range of high-end establishments broken down into three categories: Royal, Posh and Brilliant. The website's limited time deals of between five to 10 days offer a selection of hotels and tours at up to 40 per cent off the usual price.

To get even more bang for your buck overseas, apply for a DBS multi-currency account that lets you pay for your purchases at preferred rates in 11 foreign currencies with no foreign exchange fees.

Enjoying the little things

Finally, luxury is no longer just about how much something costs. For some, having the time to read a book by their favourite author or a pre-dawn run in the park are indulgences that can't be bought with any amount of money.

Rather these are the experiences that fulfill us. So seek out the daily luxuries that you can't live without and make time to fit these experiences into your busy day. You will feel all the richer for it!

For more life hacks to help you make the best of your money and get through the daily grind, visit the Insider Guide To Life.