Really mean tournament organizers troll 'Smash Bros.' fans with fake Switch announcement
Fake announcement of Smash Bros. coming to the Switch is not cool.
We all want on the Nintendo Switch. HD remake, virtual console port — anything, really. Don't tease us with your LIES. The above advertisement that was seemingly teasing a reveal of for the Nintendo Switch popped up during the stream of the major tournament, CEO Dreamland, this weekend. It implied that the game would be playable at an upcoming tournament, Shine 2017, in August. The tease cut away from at the last second, instead revealing that the platform fighting game would actually be at the tournament. What a bunch of trolling trolls. People were pissed at the bait-and-switch. With thousands watching the stream on Twitch, people were understandably getting excited at the beginning of the ad. Twitch viewers getting excited about 'Melee' on the Switch. Image: Twitch Once the jig was up, people started throwing heat at the Shine tournament organizer, the CEO tournament organizer, and the community manager. Shine organizer Matt "DotZeb" Zaborowski ended up taking all the blame. Please give all your hate to me for that one @Brawlhalla is godlike, they aren't responsible for that video — DoTzEb (@DotZeb) April 16, 2017 Hopefully everyone has learned their lesson from this fake-out. New documentary answers all your questions about 'Horizon: Zero Dawn' 'Outlander' Season 3 teaser trailer will make you believe in love again John Oliver says the French elections are looking Trump-esque Intel's Crybaby LeBron is here to fake cry his way through the NBA Playoffs

We all want Super Smash Bros. Melee on the Nintendo Switch. HD remake, virtual console port — anything, really. Don't tease us with your LIES.

The above advertisement that was seemingly teasing a reveal of Super Smash Bros. Melee for the Nintendo Switch popped up during the stream of the major Smash tournament, CEO Dreamland, this weekend. It implied that the game would be playable at an upcoming Smash tournament, Shine 2017, in August. The tease cut away from Melee at the last second, instead revealing that the platform fighting game Brawlhalla would actually be at the tournament. What a bunch of trolling trolls.

People were pissed at the bait-and-switch.

With thousands watching the stream on Twitch, people were understandably getting excited at the beginning of the ad.

Twitch viewers getting excited about 'Melee' on the Switch. Image: Twitch

Once the jig was up, people started throwing heat at the Shine tournament organizer, the CEO tournament organizer, and the Brawlhalla community manager. Shine organizer Matt "DotZeb" Zaborowski ended up taking all the blame.

Please give all your hate to me for that one@Brawlhalla is godlike, they aren't responsible for that video — DoTzEb (@DotZeb) April 16, 2017

Hopefully everyone has learned their lesson from this fake-out.