Plane crashes into Lidl supermarket in Portugal
Plane crashes into Lidl supermarket in Portugal


Five people have died after a Swiss-registered light aircraft crashed into a Lidl supermarket in Portugal, investigators have confirmed.

Photos and footage taken by onlookers showed huge plumes of black smoke rising into the air from the scene of the disaster in the Lisbon suburb of Tires.

The deceased are reported to be the plane's pilot, three passengers and one person on the ground, believed to be the driver of a lorry the jet crashed into.

Three of the victims are French and one Swiss, according to reports, but their identities are not yet known.

The plane had just taken off from the Cascais Municipal Aerodome en route to Marseilles, France, when it 'exploded in mid-air' and plunged to the ground, according to witnesses.

Five people have died after a Swiss-registered light aircraft crashed into a Lidl supermarket in the Tires suburb of Lisbon, Portugal

The deceased are reported to be the plane's pilot, three passengers and one person on the ground, believed to be the driver of a lorry the jet crashed into

The plane had just taken off from the Cascais Municipal Aerodome en route to Marseilles, France, when it 'exploded in mid-air' and plunged to the ground. Pictured: Buildings in flames following the crash in Tires

Witnesses said the plan exploded shortly after taking off from Cascais Areodrome before plunging into the supermarket and landing on a truck

The light aircraft is said to have landed on a lorry which was unloading in the supermarket car park and set several vehicles on fire.

'Everything started shaking like an earthquake and people began to scream and run in all directions,' said a woman named Alexandra, who was shopping inside the Lidl at the time of the crash.

The Cascais Aerodrome, where the plane took off, has since said in a statement: 'Cascais Aerodrome can confirm that at 11.05am local time, the flight of private operator Symbios Orthopedic, a P-31 light aircraft that had taken off from Cascais Aerodrome bound for Marseilles with three passengers and one crew member on board, suffered an accident outside of the aerodrome airspace.

'The aerodrome immediately activated its emergency plans and in this way activated an internal and external response to this accident.'

The current death toll of five is expected to be the final one, although it is understood three other people on the ground suffered minor injuries.

A spokesman for Portugal's Office of Prevention and Investigation of Aeronautical Accidents earlier confirmed 'four dead' - 'the pilot and his three passengers'.

The spot where the plane crashed, setting at least one house on fire, is just 150m from a local school.

The owner of a house which caught ablaze in the crash was able to run out of her property with her baby in her arms, a witness told Portuguese TV.

Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa has arrived at the scene, where around 50 firefighters and emergency workers are already working.

The Swiss-registered aircraft crashed shortly after taking off from Cascais Aerodrome around midday, according to local reports

The plane was a variant of the Piper PA-31T (file image). It is not known what caused it to crash

The Swiss-registered plane, a Piper PA-31TR Cheyenne II, is said to have left Geneva three days ago before making a stop in the southern French port city of Marseille and continuing on to Tires.

The pilot was initially described as French although subsequent reports pointed to all four victims being Swiss.