Turkey referendum: Campaign on Erdogan powers 'unequal'
Turkey referendum: Campaign on Erdogan powers 'unequal' - BBC News


Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Protesters march through the Turkish capital, calling for a recount

Turkey's referendum process was held on an "unlevel playing field", with campaigning restrictions and late procedural changes, monitors say.

Opposition events were obstructed and state resources misused, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) said.

In the referendum, voters gave sweeping new powers to President Erdogan.

The narrow vote was ruled valid by Turkey's electoral body, despite claims of irregularities by the opposition.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's push for an executive presidency succeeded with 51.4% voting for it.

"[The] referendum took place on an unlevel playing field and the two sides of the campaign did not have equal opportunities," the OSCE said in a statement.

"The campaign rhetoric was tarnished by some senior officials equating No supporters with terrorist sympathisers, and in numerous cases No supporters faced police interventions and violent scuffles at their events."

What's in the new constitution?

The president will have a five-year tenure, for a maximum of two terms

The president will be able to directly appoint top public officials, including ministers and one or several vice-presidents

The job of prime minister will be scrapped

The president will have power to intervene in the judiciary, which Mr Erdogan has accused of being influenced by Fethullah Gulen, the Pennsylvania-based preacher he blames for the failed coup in July

The president will decide whether or not impose a state of emergency

The main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) has demanded a recount of 60% of the votes. Its deputy head said the result should be annulled altogether.

The pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) also challenged the vote.

They criticised a decision by electoral officials to allow voting papers without official stamps to be counted, saying it opened the way for fraud.

But the head of Turkey's electoral body, Sadi Guven, said the unstamped ballot papers had been produced by the High Electoral Board and were valid.

He said a similar procedure had been used in past elections.