The Best Cities For Accountants In 2017
The Best Cities For Accountants In 2017
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Karsten Strauss       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. A new report from Indeed.com shows which cities offer accountants the best deal on salary after cost of living. (image credit: Shutterstock) Some of us, when we’re looking for a new job, go into extreme detail in our searches; calculating costs and career opportunity to the Nth degree. That’s not a bad thing, actually, as information is your friend when it comes to making major life decisions. Luckily, for those of us who are accountants, the job search platform Indeed.com recently crunched some of the numbers on where in the U.S. it pays best to be an accountant, figuring out in which metropolitan regions  an accountant’s salary stretches the farthest and how many suitable jobs there are there. For a rundown of the top-10 best cities for accountants, check out our slideshow below. The 10 Best Cities For Accountants In 2017 One interesting element to Indeed.com’s study is that New York City, where Indeed says 10% of the U.S. accounting job postings are found, did not make theTop-15  list at all. The number one best city for accountants, says Indeed, is Atlanta, Georgia. In that area, the average salary adjusted for cost of living is $52,312. According to the job posting numbers, there are 11,775 accounting jobs per 1 million job postings in the region. Which is not too shabby. In second place we find Charlotte, North Carolina. Accountants there can take home $52,214 a year, after the costs of living are paid for. Opportunity-wise, there are 8,316 accounting jobs per 1 million job postings. Third place is held by San Jose, California — the heart of Silicon Valley. The salaries there are, on average, $51,092, adjusted for cost of living, and there are 7,601 number crunching jobs per 1 million job postings. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Some of us, when we’re looking for a new job, go into extreme detail in our searches; calculating costs and career opportunity to the Nth degree.

That’s not a bad thing, actually, as information is your friend when it comes to making major life decisions. Luckily, for those of us who are accountants, the job search platform Indeed.com recently crunched some of the numbers on where in the U.S. it pays best to be an accountant, figuring out in which metropolitan regions an accountant’s salary stretches the farthest and how many suitable jobs there are there.

For a rundown of the top-10 best cities for accountants, check out our slideshow below.

One interesting element to Indeed.com’s study is that New York City, where Indeed says 10% of the U.S. accounting job postings are found, did not make theTop-15 list at all.

The number one best city for accountants, says Indeed, is Atlanta, Georgia. In that area, the average salary — adjusted for cost of living — is $52,312. According to the job posting numbers, there are 11,775 accounting jobs per 1 million job postings in the region. Which is not too shabby.

In second place we find Charlotte, North Carolina. Accountants there can take home $52,214 a year, after the costs of living are paid for. Opportunity-wise, there are 8,316 accounting jobs per 1 million job postings.

Third place is held by San Jose, California — the heart of Silicon Valley. The salaries there are, on average, $51,092, adjusted for cost of living, and there are 7,601 number crunching jobs per 1 million job postings.

Follow me on Twitter @KarstenStrauss

Follow me on LinkedIn