The Fate of The Furious Looks a Little Cloudy in America
The Fate of The Furious Looks a Little Cloudy in America
“Fast and Furious” fatigue is finally setting in. But ride-or-die fans can rest assured, there will be at least two more slates of car porn, crazy chases, and Corona placements. The eighth installment of the blockbuster franchise was a record success in a couple of ways. It garnered $432.3 million in ticket sales abroad in its debut this past weekend, easily smashing the previous high-water mark, $316.7 million. Its global tally—which includes the U.S. audience—bested for all-time honors. In America alone, however, barely nudged past the $100 million mark. That’s an impressive metric for any film, but if the entire franchise were in a drag race, the newest model would come in third, well behind and nosed at the line by the sixth film, when inflation is factored in. Analysts had expected better returns in U.S. theaters. (To be fair, drew fans that wanted to see the final performance of co-star Paul Walker, who died in a car accident in 2013). A couple of things about those boffo numbers may be concerning for Comcast’s Universal Pictures studio. For one, the film hit virtually every foreign market at once, instead of being trickled out over time. Just five countries still await their Fast fix. Meanwhile, the movie had virtually no competition in the U.S. Recognizing the perceived power of those Furious biceps , none of the major studios opened a big movie this past weekend. Its primary competition on the new-picture front: and , neither of which topped $300,000. Dominic Toretto, in short, is no James Bond. The economics, meanwhile, are diminishing. To drive demand with new fans, Universal brought in both Charlize Theron and even Dame Helen Mirren, expensive add-ons that pushed the production budget to $250 million. The franchise, however, still appears to be gaining momentum abroad. In a savvy move, Universal set and filmed the movies in increasingly exotic locals. Toretto and his crew of Los Angeles street-racers zipped to Tokyo in the third film, the favelas of Brazil in the fifth, and Abu Dhabi in the seventh before the most recent chapter dropped into Russia.

“Fast and Furious” fatigue is finally setting in. But ride-or-die fans can rest assured, there will be at least two more slates of car porn, crazy chases, and Corona placements.

The eighth installment of the blockbuster franchise was a record success in a couple of ways. It garnered $432.3 million in ticket sales abroad in its debut this past weekend, easily smashing the previous high-water mark, Jurassic World’s $316.7 million. Its global tally—which includes the U.S. audience—bested Star Wars: The Force Awakens for all-time honors.

In America alone, however, The Fate of the Furious barely nudged past the $100 million mark. That’s an impressive metric for any film, but if the entire franchise were in a drag race, the newest model would come in third, well behind Furious 7 and nosed at the line by the sixth film, when inflation is factored in. Analysts had expected better returns in U.S. theaters. (To be fair, Furious 7 drew fans that wanted to see the final performance of co-star Paul Walker, who died in a car accident in 2013).

A couple of things about those boffo numbers may be concerning for Comcast’s Universal Pictures studio. For one, the film hit virtually every foreign market at once, instead of being trickled out over time. Just five countries still await their Fast fix. Meanwhile, the movie had virtually no competition in the U.S. Recognizing the perceived power of those Furious biceps, none of the major studios opened a big movie this past weekend. Its primary competition on the new-picture front: Tommy’s Honour and The Lost City of Z, neither of which topped $300,000.

Dominic Toretto, in short, is no James Bond.

The most important business stories of the day. Get Bloomberg's daily newsletter.

The economics, meanwhile, are diminishing. To drive demand with new fans, Universal brought in both Charlize Theron and even Dame Helen Mirren, expensive add-ons that pushed the production budget to $250 million. The franchise, however, still appears to be gaining momentum abroad. In a savvy move, Universal set and filmed the movies in increasingly exotic locals. Toretto and his crew of Los Angeles street-racers zipped to Tokyo in the third film, the favelas of Brazil in the fifth, and Abu Dhabi in the seventh before the most recent chapter dropped into Russia.