Hizb ut-Tahrir slams critics of domestic violence video
Hizb ut-Tahrir slams politicians who slammed domestic violence video


An Islamist extremist group which promoted domestic violence as a 'beautiful thing' has accused politicians of lining up to take the moral high ground.

Hizb ut-Tahrir has been condemned by both sides of politics for their video which said husbands could hit their wives with a stick.

Spokesman Hamzah Qureshi issued a Facebook post accusing politicians of making 'politically convenient' comments.

'Great to see politicians and officials lining up to take the moral high ground when it comes to violence,' he said.

Scroll down for video

Hizb ut-Tahrir spokesman Hamzah Qureshi accused MPs of taking the moral high ground

The Islamist group leader said politicians were grandstanding over their video

Women of Hizb ut-Tahrir made a video justifying the use of a stick to discipline a wife

The leader of the Islamist group, which is campaigning for sharia law and a global Islamic caliphate, conflated domestic violence with Australian troops being in Afghanistan.

'They're so concerned about the safety of women that there is outrage when tapping with a small stick or a handkerchief is mentioned,' Mr Qureshi said.

'The hypocrisy could not be more apparent.'

Hizb ut-Tahrir is unrepentant about Sydney primary school teacher Reem Allouche demonstrating how a husband could hit his 'disobedient' wife with a small stick, called a 'sivaak'.

Hamzah Qureshi conflated the issue of domestic violence with Australian troops at war

The Minister for Women Michaelia Cash condemned Hizb ut-Tahrir's video

In the video, Ms Allouche says the act is 'symbolic', while fellow panelist Atika Latifi claims it's 'a beautiful blessing'.

Ms Allouche smiles as she adds that does not mean a man can beat his wife simply for not cooking dinner, with the women agreeing that violence should only be used to 'promote tranquility'.

The pair agree that men have the right to beat their wives because husbands take a 'leadership' position within the family.

Minister for Women Michaelia Cash described it as an attitude with 'no place in modern Australia' while Labor's deputy leader Tanya Plibersek said there were 'no excuses' for 'violence and control'.

After the video surfaced, Hizb ut-Tahrir's other spokesman Uthman Badar said 'criticisms made of Islam are not for genuine debate or engagement'.

'Hence, we should refuse the media their interrogation of Islam,' he said.

This is the same man who told a family forum at Bankstown library in March that ex-Muslims deserved of death.

Hizb ut-Tahrir's other spokesman Uthman Badar said Muslims should avoid the media