Rihanna shined bright like a diamond in her one of kind Coachella outfit
Rihanna shined bright like a diamond in her one of kind Coachella outfit
Rihanna is Coachella fashion.Â Coachella , the annual music festival held in California, is mostly known as the place to show off your most unusual and trendy outfits. From sequin jackets to lizard skin mini skirts, people both famous and not try to outdo each other with the most over-the-top looks. SEE ALSO: The 12 Most Coachella Things to Happen at Coachella However, this year Rihanna upped the Coachella fashion game. The singer, who was not performing at the event, still blew everyone away with a crystal body suit underneath a typical festival outfit. " I can't go home yet, cuz enough people ain't seen my outfit " A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Riri captioned the photo of the outrageous outfit, "I can't go home yet, cuz enough people ain't seen my outfit." Once you've wrapped your head around this look, the "Work" singer posted another photo showing that the suit has a hood that goes completely over her head and face, like a fancy bank robber mask. And, of course, she paired it all with some diamond shades. phresh out. A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on That is one way to stand out of a crowd. WATCH: Square Coachella

Rihanna is Coachella fashion.Â

Coachella, the annual music festival held in California, is mostly known as the place to show off your most unusual and trendy outfits. From sequin jackets to lizard skin mini skirts, people both famous and not try to outdo each other with the most over-the-top looks.

SEE ALSO: The 12 Most Coachella Things to Happen at Coachella

However, this year Rihanna upped the Coachella fashion game. The singer, who was not performing at the event, still blew everyone away with a crystal body suit underneath a typical festival outfit.

" I can't go home yet, cuz enough people ain't seen my outfit " A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Apr 16, 2017 at 1:01am PDT

Riri captioned the photo of the outrageous outfit, "I can't go home yet, cuz enough people ain't seen my outfit."

Once you've wrapped your head around this look, the "Work" singer posted another photo showing that the suit has a hood that goes completely over her head and face, like a fancy bank robber mask. And, of course, she paired it all with some diamond shades.

phresh out. A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Apr 16, 2017 at 11:48am PDT

That is one way to stand out of a crowd.