SportsNation -- What was the biggest surprise from this weekend's Game 1s of the NBA playoffs?
Vote: What was the biggest surprise from this weekend's Game 1s?
Vote: What was the biggest surprise from this weekend's Game 1s? MLB fan survey says ... baseball ISN'T boring and your team is awesome It's spring break at Baker's Bay for Rickie Fowler, Smylie Kaufman, Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas Vote: Which teams will advance in the NBA playoffs? Vote: What is your opinion of John Calipari? Vote: What should the Browns do with the No. 1 pick? Vote: Who should win the 2016-17 NBA awards? Vote: How should the Celtics handle Thomas' contract situation? MLB fan survey: Is baseball boring and other burning questions Vote: Which teams will advance in the Stanley Cup playoffs? Sports world reacts to Russell Westbrook's record-setting performance Jalen Hurts makes surprise visit to meet Alabama fan Vote: Who deserves to win the Wooden Award? Vote: Who's your pick to win the Masters? Vote: Who will get the No. 1 seed in the East? J.J. Watt surprises fourth-grade teacher with cake and presents for her retirement Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The opening weekend of NBA playoff games provided no shortage of theatrics. There was Joe Johnson 's last-second game-winner to lead the Rudy Gobert -less Utah Jazz to an upset as well as road upsets on the courts of the Boston Celtics and Toronto Raptors . The Portland Trail Blazers received volcanic production from electric guards Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum , while MVP candidate Russell Westbrook had a rough night for the Oklahoma City Thunder . The Cleveland Cavaliers looked good early against the Indiana Pacers , but their defense yet again nearly cost them a game down the stretch. What was the biggest surprise of the weekend? Vote now: Two Game 2s kick off Monday night. The Cavs look to finish stronger against Indiana starting at 7 p.m. ET in Cleveland, while the Memphis Grizzlies look to avoid repeating Saturday's blowout Game 1 loss to the San Antonio Spurs starting at 9:30 p.m. ET. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The opening weekend of NBA playoff games provided no shortage of theatrics.

There was Joe Johnson's last-second game-winner to lead the Rudy Gobert-less Utah Jazz to an upset as well as road upsets on the courts of the Boston Celtics and Toronto Raptors.

The Portland Trail Blazers received volcanic production from electric guards Damian Lillard and CJ McCollum, while MVP candidate Russell Westbrook had a rough night for the Oklahoma City Thunder.

The Cleveland Cavaliers looked good early against the Indiana Pacers, but their defense yet again nearly cost them a game down the stretch.

What was the biggest surprise of the weekend? Vote now:

Two Game 2s kick off Monday night. The Cavs look to finish stronger against Indiana starting at 7 p.m. ET in Cleveland, while the Memphis Grizzlies look to avoid repeating Saturday's blowout Game 1 loss to the San Antonio Spurs starting at 9:30 p.m. ET.

-- Brendan C. Hall