The 10,000 steps a day recommendation lacks evidence
The 10,000 steps a day recommendation lacks evidence


Pedometers are a fitness craze with people everywhere tracking their daily steps.

As we lead increasingly desk-drive lifestyles, hitting a target number of steps per day seems an achievable way of keeping on top of your health.

Most step counters are programmed to recommend a minimum of 10,000 steps every day.

For many this figure is fairly daunting as the average Briton walks just 3,000 to 4,000 steps daily.

Yet, an expert warns the 10,000 step recommendation may have been pulled out of thin air.

An expert warns the 10,000 step challenge set by most pedometers lacks health evidence

WHY 10,000 STEPS? A Japanese athletic company supposedly started the 10,000 step recommendation in the Sixties. It released a pedometer called manpo-kei (translated as the 10,000 step meter). The company claim this was based on a study by Kyushu University of Health and Welfare on the benefits of taking 10,000 steps. The study could not be traced. Older people or those with a chronic disease may be unable to walk this distance. Some experts say you should aim for at least 5,000, as less suggests a sedentary lifestyle.

Dr. James Borchers, director of sports medicine, Ohio State University said: 'There's nothing magical about it other than it's a nice, round number,' reported US News and World Report.

Although the NHS supports the '10,000 step challenge' as an easy way of boosting our activity levels, it still recommends we do at least 150 minutes of moderate exercise a week on top of two or more days of muscle-strengthening sessions.

Pedometers have faced criticism for encouraging users to overly focus on walking or running and dismissing other health-boosting activities, such as cycling or swimming.

High-intensity strength training is also thought to be more beneficial than walking or even running if you only have a few minutes to spare.

A Harvard School of Public Health study of 10,500 adults found that those who did strength training for 20 minutes every day had less visceral fat over 12 years than those doing the same amount of cardiovascular exercise.

Pedometers may encourage people to dismiss non-walking activities, such as cycling

Visceral fat surrounds the major organs and is linked to heart disease, type 2 diabetes and stroke.

Pedometers also fail to differentiate between different types of steps.

They will register a step whether it is up a steep altitude or from the sofa to the kitchen.

Yet, before you ditch your pedometer completely, step count is somewhat linked to improved health as any level of activity has some benefits.

Dr Borchers said: 'No matter your exercise routine, it's important not to discount the importance of getting up and moving more throughout the day.

'The goal shouldn't be hitting one particular number, but rather increasing your current step count, whatever it is.'