Daughter of man gunned down in Facebook video: 'I saw the fear in my father's eyes'
Daughter of man gunned down in Facebook video: 'I saw the fear in my father's eyes'
Shares               A daughter of the man whose killing was recorded and posted on Facebook Sunday told ABC News in an emotional interview that the video "forever will be in my mind because I saw the fear in my father's eyes." In the video of the Cleveland, Ohio, shooting, which has since been removed from Facebook, Robert Godwin Sr., 74, can be seen raising his hands in an apparent attempt to ward off his attacker before he is shot in the head. The suspected gunman, Steve Stephens, has been on the run ever since and there have been no credible sightings of him. Godwin's daughter, Tonya Godwin Baines, told ABC News today that it "feels like our heart is just ripped out of our chest. For somebody to brutally murder my father like that is unbelievable."   Baines said her father was the epitome of a family man who "would give you the shirt off his back." "He taught us about God, he taught us love, forgiveness. Just to know that I will never ever hear my father's voice again is devastating," Baines said. "My father was such an honest man that didn't drink, didn't smoke, no crime; he was just picking up cans [when he was shot]."     "We can never replace him," she added, crying. "A part of us died with him." Baines' sister, Debbie Godwin, told ABC News she didn't watch the video "because I didn't want that to be the last remembrance of my father." "He didn't deserve to just be picked out randomly," Debbie Godwin said. "And then to add insult to injury you tape it while my father is begging for his life." But the sisters said they have already forgiven the man accused of killing their father.   "I truly can say I don't even feel any animosity against the guy that killed my father," Debbie Godwin said. "I'm glad that my parents taught us to love people and to forgive even when they do us wrong. ... My dad would be the kind of person that would say, 'You gotta forgive.'" "I want him to get help," Debbie Godwin said of the suspected gunman. "He needed that before this happened and I pray for his mother. I want to be able to meet her and hug her." Baines said she hopes Stephens surrenders. Cleveland Police Chief Calvin Williams said of the suspect this morning, "We don't know where he's at," and asked for the public's help in tracking Stephens down. Williams said this afternoon that the manhunt has expanded to a national search. A reward of up to $50,000 is being offered for information leading to Stephens' arrest. Cleveland police have issued a warrant for Stephens on a charge of aggravated murder . Shares                  Daughter of man gunned down in Facebook video: 'I saw the fear in my father's eyes'   What's at stake in North Korea?   North Korea accuses US of creating situation for nuclear war   Trump says North Korea has 'gotta behave'   Spicer defends White House policy on visitor logs   Kenyans Kirui, Kiplagat win 121st Boston Marathon   Gorsuch dives into the fray at first Supreme Court arguments   Former Afghan president: Massive US bomb was an 'atrocity'   Arkansas judge barred from execution cases after protest   Abe: Japan planning for refugees in event of Korean crisis   Stay-at-home dad leaves hilarious Post-its around house for his wife   Marine dad surprised with tea party photo shoot   Rooftop pool hangs 500 feet above downtown Houston   Twins get accepted into 40 colleges, receive $900K in scholarships   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten ‘Porsche’ after rescuing her from car engine   Benedict XVI has beer, party for 90th birthday at Vatican   Toxic chemical spill closes Atlanta freeway   Ex-South Korean leader Park indicted, faces trial   France's would-be presidents rally in Paris days before vote   Crews search for hikers swept away in Grand Canyon creek   Suspect in Washington mall shooting found dead   Netflix on the verge of hitting 100 million subscribers   Turkey's president Erdogan fulfils ambition, but at a cost   The Latest: Turkish council to extend state of emergency   How state trooper, DNA helped catch Mass. jogger's alleged killer   Slain jogger's hands held DNA that led to suspect's arrest   Lena Dunham on Hannah's 'selfless' 'Girls' finale   Kim Kardashian West on Kanye's hospitalization: 'This is being a wife'   UN: Nearly half a million Iraqis have fled Mosul fighting   Trump family hosts its 1st White House Easter Egg Roll   Melissa Etheridge admits she's smoked pot with her 2 grown children   Melania Trump introduces kids to 'Party Animals' at Easter event   Mark Hamill says he'd like to play George Lucas in a movie

A daughter of the man whose killing was recorded and posted on Facebook Sunday told ABC News in an emotional interview that the video "forever will be in my mind because I saw the fear in my father's eyes."

In the video of the Cleveland, Ohio, shooting, which has since been removed from Facebook, Robert Godwin Sr., 74, can be seen raising his hands in an apparent attempt to ward off his attacker before he is shot in the head.

The suspected gunman, Steve Stephens, has been on the run ever since and there have been no credible sightings of him.

Godwin's daughter, Tonya Godwin Baines, told ABC News today that it "feels like our heart is just ripped out of our chest. For somebody to brutally murder my father like that is unbelievable."

ABC

Baines said her father was the epitome of a family man who "would give you the shirt off his back."

"He taught us about God, he taught us love, forgiveness. Just to know that I will never ever hear my father's voice again is devastating," Baines said. "My father was such an honest man that didn't drink, didn't smoke, no crime; he was just picking up cans [when he was shot]."

"We can never replace him," she added, crying. "A part of us died with him."

Baines' sister, Debbie Godwin, told ABC News she didn't watch the video "because I didn't want that to be the last remembrance of my father."

"He didn't deserve to just be picked out randomly," Debbie Godwin said. "And then to add insult to injury you tape it while my father is begging for his life."

But the sisters said they have already forgiven the man accused of killing their father.

Facebook via Reuters

"I truly can say I don't even feel any animosity against the guy that killed my father," Debbie Godwin said. "I'm glad that my parents taught us to love people and to forgive even when they do us wrong. ... My dad would be the kind of person that would say, 'You gotta forgive.'"

"I want him to get help," Debbie Godwin said of the suspected gunman. "He needed that before this happened and I pray for his mother. I want to be able to meet her and hug her."

Baines said she hopes Stephens surrenders.

Cleveland Police Chief Calvin Williams said of the suspect this morning, "We don't know where he's at," and asked for the public's help in tracking Stephens down.

Williams said this afternoon that the manhunt has expanded to a national search.

A reward of up to $50,000 is being offered for information leading to Stephens' arrest. Cleveland police have issued a warrant for Stephens on a charge of aggravated murder.