Melania had to remind Donald to put his hand over his heart for the national anthem
Melania had to remind Donald to put his hand over his heart for the national anthem
Being President is hard! There's lots to learn about healthcare , history , and what the job entails . With all that swirling around, it's easy to forget things like, oh, let's say, what to do with your hands during the national anthem. When it came time to sing the national anthem at the White House Egg Roll on Monday, President Donald Trump needed a little reminder to do what comes so naturally to most: putting his hand over his heart. Melania's nudge to his side came just in time, and seemed to activate his, "oh right I'm supposed to be doing something" reflexes. The subtle nudge from Melania reminding Trump to put his hand over his heart for the National Anthem pic.twitter.com/iswL9YMVWv SEE ALSO: The mounting costs of Trump's many travels to Mar-a-Lago are trouble Listen, we get it! Sometimes, just leaving your hands limp at your side during the national anthem feels like the best course of action when, um, you can't quite remember what you're supposed to do with them. It's definitely not putting them on your hips, and holding them behind your back doesn't feel quite right either... yes, at the sides feels fine for now. Really, zoned-out kids everywhere can relate. WATCH: Keith Olbermann absolutely unleashes on President Trump, calls him 'President Jackass'

Being President is hard! There's lots to learn about healthcare, history, and what the job entails. With all that swirling around, it's easy to forget things like, oh, let's say, what to do with your hands during the national anthem.

When it came time to sing the national anthem at the White House Egg Roll on Monday, President Donald Trump needed a little reminder to do what comes so naturally to most: putting his hand over his heart. Melania's nudge to his side came just in time, and seemed to activate his, "oh right I'm supposed to be doing something" reflexes.

The subtle nudge from Melania reminding Trump to put his hand over his heart for the National Anthem pic.twitter.com/iswL9YMVWv

— Lis Power (@LisPower1) April 17, 2017

SEE ALSO: The mounting costs of Trump's many travels to Mar-a-Lago are trouble

Listen, we get it! Sometimes, just leaving your hands limp at your side during the national anthem feels like the best course of action when, um, you can't quite remember what you're supposed to do with them. It's definitely not putting them on your hips, and holding them behind your back doesn't feel quite right either... yes, at the sides feels fine for now.

Really, zoned-out kids everywhere can relate.

Related Video:

For more news videos visit Yahoo View, available now on iOS and Android.

WATCH: Keith Olbermann absolutely unleashes on President Trump, calls him 'President Jackass'