China's 'Best And Brightest' Leaving U.S. Universities And Returning Home
China's 'Best And Brightest' Leaving U.S. Universities And Returning Home
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Kenneth Rapoza       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. For thousands of Chinese teens flocking to American colleges, the pursuit of the American dream is often dependent on the H1-B visa. (Photo by FREDERIC J. BROWN/AFP/Getty Images) Chinese college students studying in the U.S. are finding it just as interesting these days to return home to the world's No. 2 economy rather than staying a few years in the world's No. 1. Some 82.23% of students who studied abroad returned to China last year, up from 72.38% in 2012, according to government figures. China's 21st Century Education Research Institute said foreign countries’ job markets could not accommodate the surge in Chinese students. It wasn't just Chinese studying in their preferred country -- the United States -- but also included students that were studying in New Zealand and Australia as well. National Institute of Education Sciences researcher Chu Chaohui said returning students had more resources and better networks in China to find a job, while Chinese students in the U.S. were dependent on 20,000 H1-B visas for tens of thousands of students, not only from China, and the majority of them working in computer sciences. Most wealthy Chinese that buy real estate in the U.S. are buying properties for their children to live in during their college years. In fact, college is the number one driver of Chinese real estate sales here. But as this market gets more saturated, and as China's economy becomes more entrepreneurial, students are finding the market to be just as welcoming to them there. Having a U.S. diploma helps. China students are leading recipients of H1-B student visas, but still pale in comparison to Indian students who tend to be swept up by the big Indian outsourcers like Infosys upon graduation. Under the visa, foreign students are allowed to stay in the country for three years. The visa is renewable for another three. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Chinese college students studying in the U.S. are finding it just as interesting these days to return home to the world's No. 2 economy rather than staying a few years in the world's No. 1.

Some 82.23% of students who studied abroad returned to China last year, up from 72.38% in 2012, according to government figures.

China's 21st Century Education Research Institute said foreign countries’ job markets could not accommodate the surge in Chinese students. It wasn't just Chinese studying in their preferred country -- the United States -- but also included students that were studying in New Zealand and Australia as well. National Institute of Education Sciences researcher Chu Chaohui said returning students had more resources and better networks in China to find a job, while Chinese students in the U.S. were dependent on 20,000 H1-B visas for tens of thousands of students, not only from China, and the majority of them working in computer sciences.

Most wealthy Chinese that buy real estate in the U.S. are buying properties for their children to live in during their college years. In fact, college is the number one driver of Chinese real estate sales here. But as this market gets more saturated, and as China's economy becomes more entrepreneurial, students are finding the market to be just as welcoming to them there. Having a U.S. diploma helps.

See: Trump Immigration Plans Bad For India IT Outsourcers -- Forbes

Silicon Valley Hast Very Little To Complain About On H1-B Visas -- Forbes

China students are leading recipients of H1-B student visas, but still pale in comparison to Indian students who tend to be swept up by the big Indian outsourcers like Infosys upon graduation. Under the visa, foreign students are allowed to stay in the country for three years. The visa is renewable for another three.