'100 Days of Horror': NY Times' Blow Says Trump Has Been 'Colossal Failure'

'100 Days of Horror': NY Times' Blow Says Trump Has Been 'Colossal Failure' // // // New York Times columnist Charles Blow didn't mince any words this morning on how the Donald Trump presidency is going. Declaring it to have been "100 Days of Horror," Blow wrote that the administration is "reportedly trying desperately to 'rebrand' the colossal failure of the first 100 days as some kind of success." He writes: Trump’s legislative agenda has been stymied. The drip, drip, drip of negative news about connections between campaign associates and Russia — and Russia’s efforts to impact our election — continues unabated. He seems to have no real strategy for governance other than pouting and gloating. His advisers are at each other’s throats. And the public has soured on him to a historic degree. On the other hand, the New York Post's Michael Walsh wrote this weekend that Trump's first 100 days - which will officially be marked in 12 days - has gone "better than you think." Walsh argued that Trump's foreign policy is turning out to be better than expected, while the "Beltway media continues to depict the White House as a floundering, latter-day court of the Borgias." On "America's Newsroom" this morning, nationally syndicated talk radio host Dana Loesch downplayed the "biased" narrative being put forth by the New York Times. She agreed with the characterization by the Post, highlighting Trump's biggest accomplishment: the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch. Loesch recalled that she disagreed with Trump at many times during the campaign, but so far she's "pleased with the number of things I've seen done correctly." She said she would grade the president with an A- or B+ and even better once the Concealed Carry National Reciprocity Act is passed and signed. The bill, proposed in the House and Senate, would allow states to cross-honor concealed-carry permits. Watch her analysis above and see more on Trump's historic upcoming NRA address .

New York Times columnist Charles Blow didn't mince any words this morning on how the Donald Trump presidency is going.

Declaring it to have been "100 Days of Horror," Blow wrote that the administration is "reportedly trying desperately to 'rebrand' the colossal failure of the first 100 days as some kind of success."

He writes:

Trump’s legislative agenda has been stymied. The drip, drip, drip of negative news about connections between campaign associates and Russia — and Russia’s efforts to impact our election — continues unabated. He seems to have no real strategy for governance other than pouting and gloating. His advisers are at each other’s throats. And the public has soured on him to a historic degree.

On the other hand, the New York Post's Michael Walsh wrote this weekend that Trump's first 100 days - which will officially be marked in 12 days - has gone "better than you think."

Walsh argued that Trump's foreign policy is turning out to be better than expected, while the "Beltway media continues to depict the White House as a floundering, latter-day court of the Borgias."

On "America's Newsroom" this morning, nationally syndicated talk radio host Dana Loesch downplayed the "biased" narrative being put forth by the New York Times.

She agreed with the characterization by the Post, highlighting Trump's biggest accomplishment: the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch.

Loesch recalled that she disagreed with Trump at many times during the campaign, but so far she's "pleased with the number of things I've seen done correctly."

She said she would grade the president with an A- or B+ and even better once the Concealed Carry National Reciprocity Act is passed and signed.

The bill, proposed in the House and Senate, would allow states to cross-honor concealed-carry permits.

Watch her analysis above and see more on Trump's historic upcoming NRA address.

Report: Arrests of Illegal Immigrants Jumped 32% in Trump's First Months

Media Analyst Calls Out MSNBC Reporter's 'Brazen' Questions to Debra Messing

LOOK: President Trump, First Lady & Barron Kick Off 139th Easter Egg Roll