Turkey referendum was held on an 'unlevel playing field'
Turkey referendum held on an 'unlevel playing field', observers say


The referendum that is set to hand Turkish President Recept Tayyip Erdogan sweeping new powers was conducted on an 'unlevel playing field', according to international observers.

Cezar Florin Preda, of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, said: 'The two sides of the campaign did not have equal opportunities.'

'Late changes in counting procedures removed an important safeguard,' Preda added, referring to a move by the election authorities to allow voting documents without an official stamp to be tallied.

Preda's comments came as videos emerged seeming to show Erdogan officials casting fake votes on ballots, and using official stamps to authorise ballots that had not been stamped before the vote was cast - typically illegal under Turkish voting laws.

Scroll down for video

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan met supporters in Istanbul today after claiming victory in a referendum which hands him sweeping new powers. However, international observers say the vote was carried out on an 'unlevel playing field'

Human rights groups say a decision late on Sunday to allow voting documents without an official stamp to be counted 'removed an important safeguard' (pictured, President Erdogan in Istanbul on Monday)

Turkey's opposition parties have signalled they will be challenging the result of the referendum, though Erdogan has said their appeals 'will be in vain'

One video, posted online by activists, appears to show a pro-Erdogan official stamping 'yes' votes on to ballot papers while others tell him he is doing a 'good job'

A second video shows officials stamping government seals on the back of ballots that have already been cast. A woman is heard saying: 'You are stamping envelopes that came out of the box unstamped. This is a crime and you have criminal liability'

In one video a pro-Erdogan official can be seen stamping votes for 'yes' on the front of ballots, a source familiar with the Turkish voting process told Mail Online.

In another, officials can be seen adding an official stamp to ballots which have already been cast - in effect legitimising votes which could be fraudulent.

In the background of the second video, a woman can be heard saying in Turkish: 'Chairman I'm filming you now. You are stamping envelopes that came out of the box unstamped. This is a crime and you have criminal liability.'

On Monday, opposition parties complained of a number of irregularities in the voting, and were particularly incensed by an electoral board decision announced on Sunday afternoon to accept as valid ballots that did not bear the official stamp.

Electoral board head Sadi Guven defended the decision on Sunday, saying: 'There is no question of changing the rules in the middle of the game.'

On Monday he explained his rationale, saying he did not want people who had been given unstamped ballots by mistake to be 'victimised'.

Guven also denied that any of the ballot papers cast without a stamp had been fraudulent or fake.

Erdogan also spoke to supporters at Ankara airport after arriving from Istanbul, saying he was forced to fight the 'powerful nations of the world' during his referendum campaign.

Erdogan's new powers, which abolish the office of Prime Minister and pass much of his duties to the President, will not come into effect until after the 2019 election (pictured, President Erdogan in Istanbul on Monday)

Erdogan has argued that the new powers are necessary to restore order after a failed military coup last year

After meeting supporters, Erdogan made his way to the temple dedicated to Mehmed the Conqueror, where he prayed

After leaving the tomb (pictured) Erdogan flew to Ankara, where he was greeted by more supporters at the airport

Turkish newspapers announce that Erdogan won, though one (top left) runs with a headline which reads: 'Is your conscience comfortable?' Journalists are routinely arrested and sanction in Turkey for expressing anti-government sentiment

Addressing his followers in Ankara, Erdogan boasted about how he was forced to take on 'powerful nations of the world' in order to hold the referendum, after Western European leaders opposed it

Erdogan said he was 'attacked' by nations with the 'crusader mentality' as well as by their supporters inside Turkey over his decision to hold a referendum (pictured, Erdogan in Anakra on Monday)

Thousands of supporters turned out to wave flags and listed to Erdogan speak in Ankara on Monday, despite the fact that the city voted against granting him new powers

Erdogan said he was 'attacked' by nations with the 'crusader mentality' as well as by their supporters inside Turkey. While it is not clear exactly which countries he was referencing, 'crusader' is commonly used in the Arabic world to refer to Western European nations.

He said: 'We did not give in, we did not give up. As a nation we stood strong.'

Following Erdogan's win, spokesmen for both Germany and Italy said they expect he will involve opposition parties in implementing changes that the country voted for.

Voters in Turkey's cosmopolitan cities voted 'no' as rural citizens said 'yes' Turkey's President won his referendum last night with 51.2 per cent of the vote, a narrower margin than many expected. It appears that for now that Erdogan's support in his rural Anatolian homeland, which makes up most of Turkey geographically, is strong enough to see off challenges from other areas of the country. Turkey's three biggest cities - Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir - all voted against Erdogan, and yet he still managed to claim victory. The Mediterranean coast also voted against the President, as did the Kurdish-majority south-east. However, the vote is being contested as international observers said standards 'fell short' of what Turkey agreed to.

German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel also said it was in Turkey's 'own interest' not to withdraw further from Europe, adding that discussions about the country joining the EU 'will not be on the agenda any time soon.'

In France, officials warned that any vote on reinstating the death penalty, which was floated after Erdogan won, 'would obviously be a break with (European) values and engagements.'

The French highlighted Turkey's role on the Council of Europe, the continent's human rights watchdog, as being problematic if the vote goes ahead - but did not say whether the nation would lose its place.

Meanwhile Saudi Arabia praised the 'success' of the referendum.

The cabinet, at its weekly meeting, voiced 'congratulations to President Erdogan of Turkey and the Turkish people on the success of the referendum regarding constitutional reforms,' the official Saudi Press Agency reported.

The cabinet said it hoped the vote would contribute to 'more development success across the country'.

Earlier in the day, Erdogan warned opponents that attempts to challenge his referendum victory 'will be in vain'.

Thousands of protesters took to the street in a rally against the controversial victory, which could see Erdogan remain as president until 2029.

Shocking video also emerged, appearing to show a protester being attacked by pro-Erdogan Turks. In the clip, a person is chased down by a large group, who surround them and kick them to the ground.

Kemal Kilicdaroglu, head of the main opposition People's Republican Party, said: 'The Supreme Electoral Board changed rules mid-game, after the ballot envelopes were opened, in a way contrary to laws.'

Earlier, the party's vice chairman, Erdal Aksunger, said it would challenge between 37 per cent and 60 per cent of the ballot boxes and accused the state-run Anadolu Agency's election result figures of being inaccurate.

Speaking to his supporters yesterday, Erdogan said: 'There are those who are belittling the result. They shouldn't try, it will be in vain. It's too late now.'

A pro-Kurdish opposition party that also opposed the constitutional changes said it plans to object to two-thirds of the ballots.

In the referendum 51 per cent of Turks voted to move from a parliamentary democracy to a presidential system. People marched as they claimed the result was achieved through fraud and intimidation

Thousands of people gathered in Istanbul to protest the result of the country's referendum, which will see President Erdogan receive sweeping new powers. The protesters banged pots and pans

President Erdogan could stay in power until 2029, thanks to the referendum vote. His new powers will see the role of Prime Minister scrapped and coups will be banned

A shocking video shows a group of pro-Erdogan supporters attacking someone who was at the protest. The group chase down the person and kick them to the floor

The people crowd around the helpless person as they beat them relentlessly. The atmosphere shows the tense relationship between the people who voted 'Yes' and 'No' in the referendum

People banged pots and pans in 2013, when large numbers came out to protest against Erdogan. The people at the rally carried bright yellow banners and waved flags

Pictured, a protester in Istanbul holds up a 'No' flag, which reads: 'Don't Obey'. The rally comes as President Erdogan hailed the referendum result a 'historic moment'

Last night protesters raided their kitchen cupboards and banged pots and pans as a symbol of defiance against the result.

51.3 per cent voted for giving Erdogan more power, compared to 48.7 per cent for the 'no' vote, according to state agency Anadolou.

It has also emerged that Turks living abroad in countries such as France, Germany and the Netherlands voted in the majority for Erdogan, pointing toward failed integration with the rest of Europe.

In the Netherlands, almost 70 per cent of Turks approved of granting their President extra powers, against 30 per cent who disagreed, according to official figures.

The 18 constitutional amendments that will come into effect after the next election, scheduled for 2019, will abolish the office of the prime minister and hand sweeping executive powers to the president.

Erdogan, who first came to power in 2003 as prime minister, had argued a 'Turkish-style' presidential system would bring stability and prosperity to a country rattled by a failed coup last year that left more than 200 people dead, and a series of devastating attacks by ISIS and Kurdish militants.

The protesters, who banged pots and pans as they took to the street, say that the referendum victory is illegal and claim the result was achieved through fraud and intimidation.

The banging of kitchen pans has a strong importance in Turkish political protests. The equipment was used in 2013, when thousands attended anti-Erdogan protests.

The marches come as a German politician compared the news to the rise of Hitler in 1933. Pictured, 'No' supporters bunch together as they walk down a street in Istanbul

SDP member Axel Schaefer said: 'The Erdogan referendum is leading Turkey into absolutism and the 1933 German parliamentary election led Germany into the abyss.' Pictures, protesters hold a yellow banner together

Germany's foreign minister said on Sunday it was good that the acrimonious Turkish referendum campaign was over and urged people to stay calm with the 'Yes' vote. Pictured, protesters wave 'No' flags against Erdogan

The marches come as a German politician compared the news to the rise of Hitler in 1933.

SDP member Axel Schaefer said: 'The Brexit vote is pushing Britain into the sidelines, the presidential election of Trump is taking the USA on an adventure, the Erdogan referendum is leading Turkey into absolutism and the 1933 German parliamentary election led Germany into the abyss.'

Earlier on Sunday, Turkish President Erdogan hailed the referendum victory as a 'historic decision' and said he could hold a referendum on reinstating the death penalty.

He said: 'With the people, we have realised the most important reform in our history.

'Turkey for the first time in its history has decided with the will of the parliament and its people on such an important change.

A man makes sounds with ustensils as someone gestures behind him during a protest against the Turkish President after the referendum on Sunday

Supporters of President Erdogan dressed in black and wore masks of his face as they celebrated their referendum victory

Turkish President Erdogan has hailed a 'historic' victory in the referendum and says he wants to reinstate the death penalty. Pictured giving a statement today

Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildrim has declared victory in the referendum that will see President Erdogan handed sweeping powers. Binali Yildrim addressed a crowd of 3,000 in Ankara. Pictured after he casted his vote in the referendum today

The president added he was willing to hold another referendum on whether the death penalty should be reinstated. He said: 'If it [a parliament bill] comes in front of me, I will approve it.' Pictured, a supporter of President Erdogan holds flares as he celebrates victory

He said: 'This is a decision made by the people. In our democracy's history, a new page has opened.' Nationalist Action Party head Devlet Bahceli said Turkish voters chose to move from a parliamentary to a presidential system of government of their own free will

'For the first time in the history of the Republic, we are changing our ruling system through civil politics. That is why it is very significant.'

The president added he was willing to hold another referendum on whether the death penalty should be reinstated.

He said in a televised speech in Istanbul: 'If it [a parliament bill] comes in front of me, I will approve it.

'But if there isn't support [from the opposition in parliament]... then what shall we do?

'Then we could have another referendum for that.'

Victory for the 'Yes' campaign was confirmed by the head of Turkey's elections board.

'According to the results, it is the 'Yes' that has emerged' victorious, said Supreme Election Board (YSK) chief Sadi Guven.

He added that final results would be issued in the next 11 days.

People who voted 'No' in the referendum took to the streets to protest the result as opposition leaders have said they will contest the result of the vote

Addressing thousands of flag-waving supporters on Sunday night, prime minister Binali Yildirim said the 'unofficial' final result is 'yes' for the constitutional referendum

President Erdogan hailed the result as a 'historic decision'. Supporters of the president took to the streets in Istanbul to celebrate the victory for the 'Yes' campaign

A 'Yes' vote would replace Turkey's parliamentary democracy with an all-powerful presidency and may see Erdogan in office until at least 2029. Pictured, President Erdogan votes on Sunday

What new powers will the president have? The president would have strengthened executive powers to appoint top public officials including ministers directly. He would be able to assign one or several vice presidents. The office and position of prime minister would be scrapped. There would be a shake-up in the judiciary, which Erdogan has accused of being influenced by supporters of his ally-turned-foe, the US-based Islamic preacher Fethullah Gulen. The president and parliament would together be able to choose four members of the Supreme Board of Judges and Prosecutors. Parliament will choose seven members on its own in what would be renamed the Board of Judges and Prosecutors (HSK). Military courts would be banned.

Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildrim said: 'The presidential system, according to unofficial results, has been confirmed with a 'Yes' vote.'

Speaking to a crowd of 3,000 from the balcony of the headquarters of the Justice and Development Party in Ankara, he said: 'This is a decision made by the people. In our democracy's history, a new page has opened.

'There are no losers in this referendum, the winner is Turkey, the winner is the dear people.'

Turkey's two main opposition parties said they would challenge the referendum result.

He said: 'With the people, we have realised the most important reform in our history.

'Turkey for the first time in its history has decided with the will of the parliament and its people on such an important change.

'For the first time in the history of the Republic, we are changing our ruling system through civil politics. That is why it is very significant.'

Erdogan added the 'Yes' camp had secured 25 million votes in Sunday's referendum, 1.3 million ahead of 'No'.

He also said turnout for the referendum was at 86 per cent.

Nationalist Action Party head Devlet Bahceli said in a statement that Turkish voters chose of their free will to move the country from a parliamentary to a presidential system of government.

Supporters of the 'Yes' vote, celebrate in Istanbul honked car horns and chanted President Erdogan's name

President Erdogan said: 'For the first time in the history of the Republic, we are changing our ruling system through civil politics. That is why it is very significant.' He said voter turnout was at 86 per cent

Pictured, a supporter of the Republican People's Party cries at an election party. Erdogan added the 'Yes' camp had secured 25 million votes in Sunday's referendum, 1.3 million ahead of 'No'

Pictured, supporters of the Republican People's Party watch the polling results in Ankara. The leader of Turkey's main opposition party is raising objections to actions of election board during the referendum

Turkey's two main opposition parties have said they will challenge the referendum result, which would hand President Erdogan sweeping powers. Pictured, a CHP supporter cries as she watches the polling results

Peoples' Democratic Party said that whatever the result, it would challenge two-thirds of the vote. Pictured, supporters of President Erdogan drive through Ankara holding flares

In Turkey's three biggest cities - Istanbul, Izmir and the capital Ankara - the 'No' camp appeared set to prevail narrowly, according to Turkish television stations

Mr Bahceli called the outcome 'a very important success; a win that makes neglect and denial impossible'.

He said Turkey rejected international 'pressure, blackmail, imposition, force and threats by the whole world to put the 'no' choice forward'

He hopes the referendum result will benefit Turkey and support for constitutional change has risen in the south east.

He also said everyone should respect the nation's decision and he is willing to introduce a referendum on whether Turkey should reinstate the death penalty.

Even though victory has been declared for the 'Yes' vote, Turkey's two main opposition parties on Sunday said they would challenge the referendum result.

The pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party said that whatever the result, it would challenge two-thirds of the vote, saying: 'There is an indication of a 3-4 percentage point manipulation of the vote.'

The deputy head of the Republican People's Party (CHP), Bulent Tezcan, denounced 'violations' by the election authorities while another CHP deputy head, Erdal Aksunger, said it could appeal up to 60 percent of the vote.

Ahead of the referendum, Tezcan said he would question the legitimacy of the vote if unstamped ballots were used as valid votes.

Yildrim said: 'There are no losers in this referendum, the winner is Turkey, the winner is the dear people.' Pictured at a rally for the 'Yes' campaign ahead of the referendum

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (right) casts his vote as his grandson Mehmet Akif, granddaughter Mahinur (back left) and Energy Minister and Erdogan's son-in-law Berat Albayrak (back centre), watch at a polling station in Istanbul

Erdogan called the prime minister and the leader of the nationalist party to congratulate them on the result of Sunday's referendum, presidential sources said

Before he voted, Erdogan said: 'God willing I believe our people will decide to open the path to much more rapid development'. Pictured, Prime Minister Binali Yildrim at a rally for 'Yes' supporters before the referendum

Thousands came out to celebrate victory for the 'Yes' campaign. Erdogan said the 'Yes' camp had secured 25 million votes in Sunday's referendum, 1.3 million ahead of 'No'

The head of Turkey's electoral board is defending the decision to accept as valid ballots without official stamps. Pictured, men holding flags walk down the street in Istanbul

More than 55.3 million Turks were eligible to cast ballots on sweeping changes to the president's role. Erdogan could have more power than any leader since modern Turkey's founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk

Lemonade seller turned autocrat is worth £100m Rising from humble origins to take the helm of Turkey's government in 2003, Recep Tayyip Erdogan quickly attracted a fervent following. But the 63-year-old, who served as prime minister and then president, also became feared and hated by many who saw him as an increasingly autocratic leader seeking to erode the country's secular traditions by imposing his conservative, religious views. He served three consecutive terms as prime minister as head of his Islamic-rooted Justice and Development Party, before becoming Turkey's first directly elected president in 2014. In that same year, the father-of-four unveiled a new presidential palace on the outskirts of Ankara, reportedly built at a cost of £500million – a far cry from his beginnings selling lemonade and sesame buns to earn money for his family. He is now said to be worth in excess of £100million. After surviving an attempted coup last July, Erdogan launched a wide-ranging crackdown, which saw roughly 100,000 lose their jobs, including lawyers, journalists, police and military officers. More than 40,000 people were jailed.

He said: 'We will pursue a legal battle. If the irregularities are not fixed, there will be a serious legitimacy discussion.'

More than 55.3 million Turks were eligible to cast ballots on sweeping changes to the president's role.

Voting in Istanbul along with his family, Erdogan predicted that 'our people would walk to the future' by making the right choice.

After a stamina-busting campaign that saw insults flung in both directions, Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said: 'Whatever choice comes out on top, our nation will make the most beautiful decision.'

Yildirim was later due to address supporters from the headquarters of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) in Ankara while Erdogan was due to watch the results in Istanbul.

The opposition has cried foul that the referendum has been conducted on unfair terms, with 'Yes' posters ubiquitous on the streets and opposition voices squeezed from the media.

The poll is also taking place under a state of emergency that has seen 47,000 people arrested in an unprecedented crackdown after the failed putsch of July last year.

'We are voting for Turkey's destiny,' said the standard-bearer of the 'No' camp, Republican People's Party (CHP) leader Kemal Kilicdaroglu.

'God willing, the result will be auspicious and we will all have the chance to discuss Turkey's fundamental problems.'

The co-leaders of Turkey's second largest opposition party, the pro-Kurdish Peoples Democratic Party (HDP) Selahattin Demirtas and Figen Yuksekdag, have been jailed on charges of links to Kurdish militants in what the party says is a deliberate move to eliminate them from the campaign.

Three people were killed in a shootout in the garden of a school used as a polling station in the southeastern Diyarbakir region, the Dogan news agency said, but it was not clear if the fighting was linked to the election or simply a family feud.

Voting in Istanbul along with his family, Erdogan predicted that 'our people would walk to the future' by making the right choice. Pictured, women with flags reading 'evet' or 'Yes'

Before he voted, Erdogan said: 'God willing I believe our people will decide to open the path to much more rapid development. If the 'Yes' vote wins, Erdogan will have more power than any leader since Turkey's founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk