Bill O'Brien Reportedly 'Absolutely Loves' Patrick Mahomes
Bill O'Brien Reportedly 'Absolutely Loves' Patrick Mahomes
Houston Texans head coach Bill O'Brien is reportedly very high on "A lot of BS flies this time of year, but file this away: One NFL coach who’s done homework on all the top QBs told me the word is O’Brien absolutely loves the cannon-armed Mahomes," Pelissero wrote. "O’Brien wouldn’t be alone—based on conversations I’ve had, it wouldn’t be a surprise if Mahomes is one of the first two quarterbacks taken." The quarterback position remains the biggest need for the Texans heading into the 2017 season. Tom Savage, a

David J. Phillip/Associated Press

Houston Texans head coach Bill O'Brien is reportedly very high on Texas Tech’s Patrick Mahomes, according to Tom Pelissero of USA Today.

"A lot of BS flies this time of year, but file this away: One NFL coach who’s done homework on all the top QBs told me the word is O’Brien absolutely loves the cannon-armed Mahomes," Pelissero wrote. "O’Brien wouldn’t be alone—based on conversations I’ve had, it wouldn’t be a surprise if Mahomes is one of the first two quarterbacks taken."

The quarterback position remains the biggest need for the Texans heading into the 2017 season. Tom Savage, a fourth-round pick in 2014, is the projected starter, but he's attempted just 92 passes in his NFL career. Brandon Weeden is the team's other option currently on the roster, but Weeden has never proven to be anything other than a backup.

With no great options in free agency and no indication the Texans will upgrade via a trade, the draft remains the most obvious way for the team to address the quarterback position.

If the Texans fall in love with a particular player, however, they may need to trade up in the draft. The team currently has the No. 25 pick in the first round and the 57th pick in the second, but the elite options at quarterback in this year's draft likely will be off the board by then.

If the Texans indeed like Mahomes, they aren't alone. Bleacher Report's Matt Miller reported both the Kansas City Chiefs and Arizona Cardinals really like the quarterback, and also speculated that Mahomes likely would be a first-round pick. In his mock draft, however, he had the Texans passing on Mahomes and the Chiefs selecting him with the No. 27 pick.

So it's possible Mahomes could still be available for the Texans at No. 25. But if quarterbacks come off the board early in the draft, as they often do, the Texans may not be able to stay put and land him.

For more news, rumors and related stories about Bill O'Brien, the Houston Texans and the NFL, check out the NFL and Texans streams on Bleacher Report's app.