Rejoice: Barack Obama is now a husband of Instagram
Rejoice: Barack Obama is now a husband of Instagram
In some precious moments, life is everything you want it to be. Like right now, when we all have come to know that Former President and all-of-our-soulmates Barack Obama is a boyfriend of Instagram. Well, husband. Barack Obama is a husband of Instagram. SEE ALSO: 'Boyfriends of Instagram' showcases guys who struggle to make their girlfriends look picture perfect On Friday, Barack and Michelle were on a 138-meter yacht with Bruce Springsteen , Tom Hanks , and Oprah in part of French Polynesia off the Island of Moorea. You know, just your usual group of friends hanging out. Like any Instagram couple, the Obamas briefly slipped away from the group to take some necessary vacation pictures - and buckle up, because it's the best. Behold, President Barack Obama, husband of Instagram. Barack Obama is an Instagram Husband pic.twitter.com/OouLr7bjT2 — Madeline Hill (@mad_hill) April 16, 2017 Yes, Michelle work that Obamas = couple goals forever. WATCH: Obama and Richard Branson fought over kitesurfing and we're never getting him back

In some precious moments, life is everything you want it to be.

Like right now, when we all have come to know that Former President and all-of-our-soulmates Barack Obama is a boyfriend of Instagram. Well, husband. Barack Obama is a husband of Instagram.

SEE ALSO: 'Boyfriends of Instagram' showcases guys who struggle to make their girlfriends look picture perfect

On Friday, Barack and Michelle were on a 138-meter yacht with Bruce Springsteen, Tom Hanks, and Oprah in part of French Polynesia off the Island of Moorea. You know, just your usual group of friends hanging out.

Like any Instagram couple, the Obamas briefly slipped away from the group to take some necessary vacation pictures - and buckle up, because it's the best.

Behold, President Barack Obama, husband of Instagram.

Barack Obama is an Instagram Husband pic.twitter.com/OouLr7bjT2 — Madeline Hill (@mad_hill) April 16, 2017

Yes, Michelle work that angle.

Obamas = couple goals forever.

WATCH: Obama and Richard Branson fought over kitesurfing and we're never getting him back