Theresa May hails Prince Harry's decision to speak out over mental health struggles
Theresa May hails Prince Harry's decision to speak out over mental health struggles
heresa May believes Prince Harry's decision to open up about his mental health is a "really important moment" for Britain. Downing Street told ITV that the Prime Minister backed the Prince's decision to speak openly about his mental health struggles after he suffered the loss of his mother. Prince Harry's intervention, which came in an interview with The Telegraph's Bryony Gordon, has caused MPs to open up about their own experiences. Heads Together, the mental health charity run by the young Royals, and The Telegraph's Mad World series were both created with the aim of causing a frank and open discussion about mental health. Chuka Umunna, John Woodcock and John Nicholson were touched by the interview, opening up about losing family members. Mr Umunna wrote: "Big big respect to Prince Harry for opening up about his mental health and grief. "Losing a parent so young is v.tough. I lost my Dad at 13 -doing so in the public eye wld have been harder still". r Woodcock felt similarly, and wrote of his experiences: "Prince Harry opening up about the way he processed his grief will help a lot of people. "My chaos and madness after losing my sister kicked in straight away. Grateful people stuck with me. Well done Harry for talking about this." John Nicholson MP said: "Good for Prince Harry. Having lost my dad as a young teenager I can relate to what he says about locking away grief. ". Matt Warman MP said: "My parents died when I was 28 - Prince Harry has done a huge service to all of us who struggled to deal with loss." My chaos and madness after losing my sister kicked in straight away. Grateful people stuck with me. Well done Harry for talking about this. 2/2 Losing a parent so young is v.tough. I lost my Dad at 13 -doing so in the public eye wld have been harder still https://t.co/zXE3mZmyPm Good for Prince Harry. Having lost my dad as a young teenager I can relate to what he says about locking away grief. #mentalhealth  https://t.co/jyjspScKzD My parents died when I was 28 - Prince Harry has done a huge service to all of us who struggled to deal with loss. https://t.co/2f78lHW50r n the exclusive Telegraph interview, Prince Harry spoke about his struggles after losing his mother. e disclosed that he sought counselling after enduring two years of “total chaos" and that he “shut down all his emotions” for almost two decades after losing his mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, despite his brother, Prince William, trying to persuade him to seek help. isclosing that he has spoken to a professional about his mental health, he describes how he only began to  address his grief when he was 28 after feeling “on the verge of punching someone” and facing anxiety during royal engagements. Now, he is running the Heads Together charity in order to help others in similar situations, along with the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, and the three young Royals will be attending the London Marathon , in which Bryony Gordon is running to raise money for the charity.

Theresa May believes Prince Harry's decision to open up about his mental health is a "really important moment" for Britain.

Downing Street told ITV that the Prime Minister backed the Prince's decision to speak openly about his mental health struggles after he suffered the loss of his mother.

Prince Harry's intervention, which came in an interview with The Telegraph's Bryony Gordon, has caused MPs to open up about their own experiences.

Heads Together, the mental health charity run by the young Royals, and The Telegraph's Mad World series were both created with the aim of causing a frank and open discussion about mental health.

Chuka Umunna, John Woodcock and John Nicholson were touched by the interview, opening up about losing family members.

Mr Umunna wrote: "Big big respect to Prince Harry for opening up about his mental health and grief.