How Much Would You Put Up With to Avoid United Airlines?
How Much Would You Put Up With to Avoid United Airlines?
Follow Us:                Get the Upshot in your Inbox The Upshot United Airlines ’s self-induced crisis last week lost the company points on social media, and dollars in its market cap. But will it actually lose customers as a result? The results of a clever experiment published today by Morning Consult suggest that — for the moment, at least — the answer is yes. When choosing between two identical (and hypothetical) flights, people who said they had heard about the United news in recent weeks strongly preferred flying with another airline. Many still chose a competitor’s flight even when it cost significantly more and came with a layover. Who Picked United Over American Airlines on a (Hypothetical) Flight From New York to Chicago The online experiment was led by Kyle Dropp, the chief research officer at Morning Consult, a digital media and polling company. Mr. Dropp’s experiment presented respondents with a pair of flights as they might appear on Kayak.com , asking them which they would choose if they were flying from New York to Chicago. One option was with United and the other with American Airlines. At first, the two flights were identical in every respect, flying nonstop for about three hours, at a cost of $204. For a casual airline traveler with no brand loyalty, we could expect this decision to come down to a coin flip, and for those who said they had not heard of the United scandal, it did: 49 percent chose the United flight, and 51 percent chose the American flight. But among respondents who heard about the passenger who was dragged off the United flight, the result was wildly lopsided, with just 21 percent of those respondents picking United. Advertisement The researchers pressed on this preference further, testing the strength of respondents’ aversion to United by making changes to the choice. One variation gave the American flight a layover in Cleveland, adding about three hours of travel time. Another option increased the cost of the American flight by $66. A third did both these things, asking people to choose between a nonstop United flight for $204 and a one-stop American flight for $270. These changes did push some people to prefer United, but others still would not budge. About 44 percent of respondents who said they had heard of United recently preferred to fly American even when the journey cost $66 more and took an additional three hours. How People Who Said They Had Heard of the United News Penalized It When Picking Flights ... on two identical flights from New York to Chicago 21% chose United 79% chose American ... when a competitor had a layover 43% chose United 57% chose American 3 hours longer + layover in Cleveland ... when a competitor was more expensive 51% chose United 49% chose American $66 more expensive ... when a competitor was more expensive and had a layover 56% chose United 44% chose American $66 more expensive 3 hours longer + layover in Cleveland ... on two identical flights from New York to Chicago 21% chose United 79% chose American ... when a competitor had a layover 43% chose United 57% chose American 3 hours longer + layover in Cleveland ... when a competitor was more expensive 51% chose United 49% chose American $66 more expensive ... when a competitor was more expensive and had a layover 56% chose United 44% chose American $66 more expensive 3 hours longer + layover in Cleveland Of course, this preference for American over United may have been driven by other factors, too. Respondents may have had stronger pre-existing brand allegiances to American or been members in the company’s rewards program. The hypothetical choice did not actually make respondents spend real money, either. Real consumers may be more likely to let their pocketbooks decide, particularly in an industry so dominated by price . Companies like Kayak and Expedia probably have an early sense of shoppers’ habits but, for the moment, there’s little public evidence to go on. One final bright spot for United is the hope that this aversion fades quickly. The researchers plan to repeat this experiment in the weeks and months to come. It’s possible consumers will turn their attention to something else by then. On the internet, the half life of outrage seems only to get shorter. The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life. Follow us on Facebook and Twitter . Sign up for our newsletter. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.    ECONOMIC VIEW    A HEALTHY NUDGE    ECONOMIC VIEW

United Airlines’s self-induced crisis last week lost the company points on social media, and dollars in its market cap. But will it actually lose customers as a result?

The results of a clever experiment published today by Morning Consult suggest that — for the moment, at least — the answer is yes. When choosing between two identical (and hypothetical) flights, people who said they had heard about the United news in recent weeks strongly preferred flying with another airline. Many still chose a competitor’s flight even when it cost significantly more and came with a layover.

Who Picked United Over American Airlines on a (Hypothetical) Flight From New York to Chicago Percent of survey respondents picking United when ... Among people who had heard of United recently Among people who had not heard of United recently The United and American Airlines flights were identical 21% 49% The American Airlines flight had an extra layover 43% 73% The American Airlines flight cost $66 more 51% 81% The American Airlines flight had a layover and cost $66 more 56% 86%

The online experiment was led by Kyle Dropp, the chief research officer at Morning Consult, a digital media and polling company. Mr. Dropp’s experiment presented respondents with a pair of flights as they might appear on Kayak.com, asking them which they would choose if they were flying from New York to Chicago. One option was with United and the other with American Airlines.

At first, the two flights were identical in every respect, flying nonstop for about three hours, at a cost of $204. For a casual airline traveler with no brand loyalty, we could expect this decision to come down to a coin flip, and for those who said they had not heard of the United scandal, it did: 49 percent chose the United flight, and 51 percent chose the American flight.

But among respondents who had heard about the passenger who was dragged off the United flight, the result was wildly lopsided, with just 21 percent of those respondents picking United.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The researchers pressed on this preference further, testing the strength of respondents’ aversion to United by making changes to the choice. One variation gave the American flight a layover in Cleveland, adding about three hours of travel time. Another option increased the cost of the American flight by $66. A third did both these things, asking people to choose between a nonstop United flight for $204 and a one-stop American flight for $270.

These changes did push some people to prefer United, but others still would not budge. About 44 percent of respondents who said they had heard of United recently preferred to fly American even when the journey cost $66 more and took an additional three hours.

How People Who Said They Had Heard of the United News Penalized It When Picking Flights ... on two identical flights from New York to Chicago 21% chose United 79% chose American ... when a competitor had a layover 43% chose United 57% chose American 3 hours longer + layover in Cleveland ... when a competitor was more expensive 51% chose United 49% chose American $66 more expensive ... when a competitor was more expensive and had a layover 56% chose United 44% chose American $66 more expensive 3 hours longer + layover in Cleveland ... on two identical flights from New York to Chicago 21% chose United 79% chose American ... when a competitor had a layover 43% chose United 57% chose American 3 hours longer + layover in Cleveland ... when a competitor was more expensive 51% chose United 49% chose American $66 more expensive ... when a competitor was more expensive and had a layover 56% chose United 44% chose American $66 more expensive 3 hours longer + layover in Cleveland

Of course, this preference for American over United may have been driven by other factors, too. Respondents may have had stronger pre-existing brand allegiances to American or been members in the company’s rewards program. The hypothetical choice did not actually make respondents spend real money, either. Real consumers may be more likely to let their pocketbooks decide, particularly in an industry so dominated by price. Companies like Kayak and Expedia probably have an early sense of shoppers’ habits but, for the moment, there’s little public evidence to go on.

One final bright spot for United is the hope that this aversion fades quickly. The researchers plan to repeat this experiment in the weeks and months to come. It’s possible consumers will turn their attention to something else by then. On the internet, the half life of outrage seems only to get shorter.

The Morning Consult’s experiment included a nationally representative online sample of 1,975 adults on April 12. Kyle Dropp, who led the experiment, is an occasional contributor to The Upshot.