Jon Jones vs. Daniel Cormier Fight Likely to Happen at UFC 214, Says Dana White
Jon Jones vs. Daniel Cormier Fight Likely to Happen at UFC 214, Says Dana White
UFC President Dana White said he's prepared to schedule Jon Jones vs. Daniel Cormier at UFC 214 on July 29 if the suspended Jones is ready to fight on that date, ESPN.com's Brett Okamoto reported Monday. Jones is serving his yearlong suspension for failing a drug test before he was set to take on Cormier at UFC 200 last July. The 29-year-old will be eligible to fight again beginning July 7. Current state of UFC LHW division we'll see Jones vs. Cormier 16 by 2020. He won't. He doesn't have that ability. He never has. Even when he juiced his way to deadlifting 600lbs he couldn't KO Ovince https://t.co/wEXoAoDtEJ @dc_mma do you really think I took steroids or is that just another thing you tell yourself to sleep better after I made u forever my bitch U hid from usada bruh. Yes u did steroids. You have always done steroids. U tried to cheat me. So shut ur bum ass up. https://t.co/KFfVvd7feA Okamoto

Brandon Magnus/Zuffa LLC/Getty Images

UFC President Dana White said he's prepared to schedule Jon Jones vs. Daniel Cormier at UFC 214 on July 29 if the suspended Jones is ready to fight on that date, ESPN.com's Brett Okamoto reported Monday.

Jones is serving his yearlong suspension for failing a drug test before he was set to take on Cormier at UFC 200 last July. The 29-year-old will be eligible to fight again beginning July 7.

A rematch between Jones and Cormier is one of the most highly anticipated bouts in UFC, and as FloCombat's Duane Finley alluded to, it's sorely needed for the light heavyweight division:

The hype train is already starting up despite the fact the two haven't officially signed on to fight. Cormier and Jones went back and forth on Twitter beginning last Thursday and carrying on through to Saturday (Warning: tweets contain NSFW language):

Since UFC 214 comes relatively shortly after Jones returns from suspension, White said he already has a contingency plan in mind, per Okamoto. Cormier would face Jimi Manuwa—likely at UFC 213 on July 8—and Jones would have a warmup fight before taking on the light heavyweight champion at a later date.

For more news, rumors and related stories about Jon Jones, Daniel Cormier and the UFC, check out the UFC stream on Bleacher Report's app.