What Hollywood Must Learn From 'Star Wars' And 'Fate Of The Furious'
What Hollywood Must Learn From 'Star Wars' And 'Fate Of The Furious'
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Scott Mendelson       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Universal 'Fate of the Furious' broke a new record this past weekend, earning (as of this writing) $432 million overseas for the biggest foreign debut of all time and $532m worldwide for the biggest global opening ever. That bests the previous highs of 's $317m overseas debut (alongside a then-record $208.8m domestic opening) and ' $529m global bow (alongside a record $248m domestic debut weekend). While the film's $100m domestic debut won't make the record books, there is something appropriate about Walt Disney's and Universal/Comcast Corp.'s sitting atop the record books. debuted on the same day where we got our first teaser for . That's fitting as they have become our two biggest original, cinema-first franchises. With $7.76 billion over nine movies (including animated release), the saga is the third-biggest global blockbuster franchise behind only the franchise ($8.53b over nine films) and the Marvel Cinematic Universe ($10.5b over 14 films with lots more on the way). And the franchise, launched from a relatively humble $40m-budgeted remake 16 years ago, is the eighth-biggest such franchise, with $4.4 billion as of yesterday. If it makes it to $5 billion by the time wraps up (that's a coin toss), it'll leapfrog past the movies and the various pictures. The franchise and the franchise are unique in that they are top-tier blockbuster franchises that aren't explicitly based on prior source material and whose appeal is not rooted in popularity of a different medium. and were movies first. And even if you acknowledge that the first was a loose riff on Kathryn Bigelow's and inspired by a magazine article about New York street clubs that raced Japanese cars at night , the film and the franchise that it inspired was original in plot, concept and characters. As we know, Hollywood currently spends the lion's share of its money on cinematic variations on what has come before. Be it a feature-film adaptation of a TV show like or another round of (whose 1995 predecessor was based on a popular children's' book) or a revival of the likes of Tarzan or King Arthur, we're more likely to get another than "the next ." To be fair, the grim results for the likes of ($183 million on a $175m budget) and ($209m on a $190m budget) make that an easy call for those in charge of giving the studio greenlight. At least when bombs, you can say, "But, it was something that was once popular!" That has been true for as long as I've been writing and it has become ever more accurate as audiences flock to television for their originality fix. But the monstrous successes of and show the value of still rolling the dice on an original genre offering. Those who flock to the latest episode or the latest sequel do so not for the promise of empty spectacle but due to an earned kinship with established characters and the hope that new characters will become just as enchanting. With , fans flocked to see Han Solo and Princess Leia again only to become attached to Rey, Finn and Poe. Dwayne Johnson's Hobbs, introduced as a righteous antagonist in , quickly became a fan-favorite and is now a co-lead in the new film alongside Vin Diesel and (former arch-villain) Jason Statham. Yes, audiences flock to these films for the action and spectacle, but it is because we want to see these characters engaging in said spectacle that makes them pop. It's not just a lightsaber fight, it's a lightsaber fight with Rey and Kylo. Truth be told, that's the key to any long-running fantasy franchise. Audiences didn't flock to the films for the action scenes or even the special effects, but rather because they loved J.K. Rowling's characters and wanted to spend time with them in said fantasy environment. Ditto the Marvel Cinematic Universe, whose ultimate triumph has been creating winning variations of known comic book characters that draw audiences with little interest in the source material. Ditto , , and . There are exceptions, such as and the films, but as a general rule audiences flock to characters they like over arbitrary spectacle and razzle-dazzle. That's why Lionsgate and Saban focused so much of the marketing on the kids outside of their super-suits. If you like the kids, you'll cheer when they morph. What's also worth noting is how the and franchises exist in relation to the ongoing obsession with cinematic universes. Up until last year, stories outside of the core Skywalker arc mostly (save for those Ewok movies, which I must mention or William Bibbiani will scold me) existed outside of cinema, be it books, television shows and video games. And even with Walt Disney's planned spin-off pictures, there is a clear hierarchy in terms of the stand-alone movies and the main event "episodes," at least until we find out what Disney has planned post "Episode IX." And while created a kind of accidental cinematic universe by virtue of not being able to get everyone back for the first two sequels, it wasn't until the franchise became a series of conventional sequels with that it took off like wildfire. The environment that allowed (which was originally distributed by 20th Century Fox until Disney bought Lucasfilm in 2012) and to become what they have become may not necessarily exist anymore. Although we certainly see smaller-scale breakouts like and (loosely inspired by non-fiction book ) here and there. Yet, as we mourn the alleged death of originality in big-budget cinema, which is slightly exaggerated, we can note that the biggest movie of all time is James Cameron's . We can note that the biggest movie ever in North America (with the biggest domestic debut ever) is , the successful revamping of a beloved original cinematic mythology. We can note that the biggest opening weekend around the world belongs to , the eighth installment of the most unlikely mega-blockbuster series in recent history. And yeah, both franchises are proof that ethnically diverse casts and relative gender parity in top-tier blockbusters can be an asset rather than a risk. We can still take a moment to celebrate that two of the very biggest ongoing franchises and the current record holders for opening weekend dominance, began as cinema-first original motion pictures that became pop culture juggernauts on the strength of their original characters and their continuity. And both of these franchises, along with the many IP-driven ones that thrive alongside them, are big because audiences like the characters and genuinely want to spend time in those worlds in a series of continuing cinematic adventures. The spectacle or an IP may get them in the door, but quality characters, specifically the character contained in said motion pictures, will keep them in their seats. We came for the space ships and car chases, but we stayed for Luke, Dom, Leia, Brian, Rey and Hobbs. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Universal

Fate of the Furious broke a new record this past weekend, earning (as of this writing) $432 million overseas for the biggest foreign debut of all time and $532m worldwide for the biggest global opening ever. That bests the previous highs of Jurassic World's $317m overseas debut (alongside a then-record $208.8m domestic opening) and Star Wars: The Force Awakens' $529m global bow (alongside a record $248m domestic debut weekend). While the film's $100m domestic debut won't make the record books, there is something appropriate about Walt Disney's Star Wars and Universal/Comcast Corp.'s The Fast and the Furious sitting atop the record books.

Fate of the Furious debuted on the same day where we got our first teaser for The Last Jedi. That's fitting as they have become our two biggest original, cinema-first franchises. With $7.76 billion over nine movies (including The Clone Wars animated release), the Star Wars saga is the third-biggest global blockbuster franchise behind only the Harry Potter franchise ($8.53b over nine films) and the Marvel Cinematic Universe ($10.5b over 14 films with lots more on the way). And the Fast/Furious franchise, launched from a relatively humble $40m-budgeted Point Break remake 16 years ago, is the eighth-biggest such franchise, with $4.4 billion as of yesterday.

If it makes it to $5 billion by the time Fate of the Furious wraps up (that's a coin toss), it'll leapfrog past the X-Men movies and the various Batman pictures. The Star Wars franchise and the Fast/Furious franchise are unique in that they are top-tier blockbuster franchises that aren't explicitly based on prior source material and whose appeal is not rooted in popularity of a different medium. Star Wars and The Fast and the Furious were movies first. And even if you acknowledge that the first Fast and the Furious was a loose riff on Kathryn Bigelow's Point Break and inspired by a magazine article about New York street clubs that raced Japanese cars at night, the film and the franchise that it inspired was original in plot, concept and characters.

Watch On Forbes:

As we know, Hollywood currently spends the lion's share of its money on cinematic variations on what has come before. Be it a feature-film adaptation of a TV show like Power Rangers or another round of Jumanji (whose 1995 predecessor was based on a popular children's' book) or a revival of the likes of Tarzan or King Arthur, we're more likely to get another Matrix than "the next Matrix." To be fair, the grim results for the likes of Jupiter Ascending ($183 million on a $175m budget) and Tomorrowland ($209m on a $190m budget) make that an easy call for those in charge of giving the studio greenlight. At least when Pan bombs, you can say, "But, it was something that was once popular!" That has been true for as long as I've been writing and it has become ever more accurate as audiences flock to television for their originality fix.

But the monstrous successes of Fast and the Furious and Star Wars show the value of still rolling the dice on an original genre offering. Those who flock to the latest Star Wars episode or the latest Fast and the Furious sequel do so not for the promise of empty spectacle but due to an earned kinship with established characters and the hope that new characters will become just as enchanting. With The Force Awakens, fans flocked to see Han Solo and Princess Leia again only to become attached to Rey, Finn and Poe. Dwayne Johnson's Hobbs, introduced as a righteous antagonist in Fast Five, quickly became a fan-favorite and is now a co-lead in the new film alongside Vin Diesel and (former arch-villain) Jason Statham. Yes, audiences flock to these films for the action and spectacle, but it is because we want to see these characters engaging in said spectacle that makes them pop. It's not just a lightsaber fight, it's a lightsaber fight with Rey and Kylo.

Truth be told, that's the key to any long-running fantasy franchise. Audiences didn't flock to the Harry Potter films for the action scenes or even the special effects, but rather because they loved J.K. Rowling's characters and wanted to spend time with them in said fantasy environment. Ditto the Marvel Cinematic Universe, whose ultimate triumph has been creating winning variations of known comic book characters that draw audiences with little interest in the source material. Ditto X-Men, The Twilight Saga, Pirates of the Caribbean and Shrek. There are exceptions, such as Avatar and the Transformers films, but as a general rule audiences flock to characters they like over arbitrary spectacle and razzle-dazzle. That's why Lionsgate and Saban focused so much of the Power Rangers marketing on the kids outside of their super-suits. If you like the kids, you'll cheer when they morph.

What's also worth noting is how the Star Wars and Fast/Furious franchises exist in relation to the ongoing obsession with cinematic universes. Up until last year, Star Wars stories outside of the core Skywalker arc mostly (save for those Ewok movies, which I must mention or William Bibbiani will scold me) existed outside of cinema, be it books, television shows and video games. And even with Walt Disney's planned spin-off pictures, there is a clear hierarchy in terms of the stand-alone movies and the main event "episodes," at least until we find out what Disney has planned post "Episode IX." And while Fast and the Furious created a kind of accidental cinematic universe by virtue of not being able to get everyone back for the first two sequels, it wasn't until the franchise became a series of conventional sequels with Fast & Furious that it took off like wildfire.

The environment that allowed Star Wars (which was originally distributed by 20th Century Fox until Disney bought Lucasfilm in 2012) and The Fast and the Furious to become what they have become may not necessarily exist anymore. Although we certainly see smaller-scale breakouts like John Wick and Pitch Perfect (loosely inspired by Mickey Rapkin's non-fiction book) here and there.

Yet, as we mourn the alleged death of originality in big-budget cinema, which is slightly exaggerated, we can note that the biggest movie of all time is James Cameron's Avatar. We can note that the biggest movie ever in North America (with the biggest domestic debut ever) is Star Wars: The Force Awakens, the successful revamping of a beloved original cinematic mythology. We can note that the biggest opening weekend around the world belongs to Fate of the Furious, the eighth installment of the most unlikely mega-blockbuster series in recent history. And yeah, both franchises are proof that ethnically diverse casts and relative gender parity in top-tier blockbusters can be an asset rather than a risk.

We can still take a moment to celebrate that two of the very biggest ongoing franchises and the current record holders for opening weekend dominance, began as cinema-first original motion pictures that became pop culture juggernauts on the strength of their original characters and their continuity. And both of these franchises, along with the many IP-driven ones that thrive alongside them, are big because audiences like the characters and genuinely want to spend time in those worlds in a series of continuing cinematic adventures. The spectacle or an IP may get them in the door, but quality characters, specifically the character contained in said motion pictures, will keep them in their seats. We came for the space ships and car chases, but we stayed for Luke, Dom, Leia, Brian, Rey and Hobbs.

If you like what you're reading, follow @ScottMendelson on Twitter, and "like" The Ticket Booth on Facebook. Also, check out my archives for older work HERE.