Dogs 'guilty behiaviour' is inherited from wolf ancestors
Guilty behavious by dogs is inherited from their wolf ancestors


Pet pooches are often the first to show signs that they could be in the dog-house.

Arriving home to find a dog with a head hung in shame and a tail between their legs - what experts term an 'apology bow' - is an early warning sign of trouble waiting inside.

But far from being a simple apology, this submissive behaviour - which comes from the pack mentality of their wolf ancestors - is designed to ensure that dogs don't get shunned from the family unit.

Scroll down for video

The 'guilty' look displayed by dogs who find themselves in the dog house is an evolutionary trait handed down from their wolf ancestors, according to a New York biologist. And far from being a simple apology, it is also a method of self-preservation (stock image)

THE APOLOGY BOW Biologist Dr Nathan Lents has highlighted the links between the submissive behaviour shown by pet dogs and their wolf ancestors. The actions associated with the apology bow mimic those of a wolf indicating submission to a more dominant, higher-ranking wolf. Dogs hang their head low, pant or smiling stops avoid eye contact, and literally put their tail between their legs. And by demonstrating this behaviour, dogs hope to avoid being 'shunned' from the 'pack' of the family unit.

The 'apology bow' is a recognition of their master's position as head of the pack.

And it is an evolutionary hangover from the days before dogs were domesticated from their wolf forbears. according to biologist Dr Nathan Lents, a professor a the City University of New York.

In the wolf pack, animals who break the rules are shunned for their behaviour.

But 'neglect or isolation is painful for them' according to Dr Lents as they 'crave harmonious integration'.

This behaviour has carried over to our canine companions and by adopting the 'apology bow' stance, they hope to avoid becoming outcasts within the family group.

Speaking in a blog post published on the Psychology Today website, Dr Lents said: 'While it may seem like a trivial action, it is actually involved in multiple fairly sophisticated social behaviours.

'In wolves, juveniles first begin to display the apology bow as they begin their social integration.

'Dogs have inherited this behaviour and they will use it after any kind of infraction that results in being punished.

Previous research has shown that dogs aren't as honest and obedient as they might like to have us think.

We think we're in control but new research shows that dogs can be very deceptive - especially when it involves them getting an extra sausage.

Scientists found that dogs can be sneaky and manipulative in order to get what they want from humans.

Previous research has shown that dogs aren't as honest and obedient as they might like to have us think. Scientists found that dogs can be sneaky and manipulative in order to get what they want from humans (stock image)

A DOG'S DECEPTION Researchers paired pups with their owner and two unfamiliar humans - one who acted 'cooperatively' and gave them food and the other who was 'competitive' and kept the food for themselves. The dogs had three snacks to choose from - a juicy sausage, a dry dog biscuit or nothing at all. The dog had to lead one of these partners to one of the three potential food locations. The dog learnt to always lead the person who gave them food to the juicy sausage. They were quickly able to differentiate between who gave them food and who didn't.

Marianne Heberlein, who studies dog cognition at the University of Zurich in Switzerland, got the idea to study doggie deception from watching her own mischievous hounds.

She noticed her dogs tricking each other - for example by getting up and pretending there was something interesting going on in the garden in order to nab the other one's prime sleeping spot.

However, Dr Heberlein wanted to study if dogs were capable of deceiving humans too.

The research showed that dogs can be quite calculated if it means they'll get a sausage as a reward - and are able to recognise who is more likely to give them one.

Other animals, such as monkeys, often need dozens of repetitions to learn similar lessons, she said.

The study shows that dogs are able to distinguish between competitive and cooperative partners - ie someone who will give them a sausage and someone who won't.

This shows dogs are capable of tactical deception and adjusting their behaviour depending on who they're dealing with.