Pence visits Japan, turning focus to trade with key ally
Pence visits Japan, turning focus to trade with key ally
Shares                U.S. Vice President Mike Pence arrived in Japan for talks Tuesday expected to focus largely on trade with America's anchor ally in the region. Concluding a visit to South Korea , Pence told business leaders in Seoul the administration is taking a fresh look at trade agreements as part of its "America First" policy. "We're reviewing all of our trade agreements across the world to ensure that they benefit our economy as much as they benefit our trading partners," Pence told the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea. White House officials said the economic meetings in Tokyo, with Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso and other officials, are meant to forge a framework for future discussions after the U.S. withdrew from a Pacific Rim trade pact. They will serve as the kickoff to the U.S.-Japan economic dialogue that was announced by President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in February. While Japan's trade surplus with the U.S. is much smaller than China's, Trump has decried the imbalance, especially in auto exports. In Japan, they said Pence's two main goals are to spur increased U.S. access to Japanese markets and strengthen Japanese foreign investment. Both sides said they do not expect the talks in Tokyo this week to delve into sector-by-sector talks on trade. With no U.S. Trade Representative yet in office and other key negotiator positions still unfilled, such nitty-gritty discussions will have to come later. But the meetings could indicate how forcefully the U.S. will pressure Japan to further open its farm and automotive sectors. Pence's advisers said the vice president would make the case to Abe and Aso that the U.S. rejection of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP, under Trump did not signal a U.S. withdrawal from trade and economic development in the region. Before Pence's arrival, Aso told reporters the talks were meant to provide, "not friction, but cooperation." In preliminary meetings Tuesday, U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross sat down with Japan's trade minister, Hiroshige Seko. Ross has said he hopes to soon begin talks on a free trade agreement with Japan. The loss of U.S. participation in the TPP was a blow to Japan following strenuous negotiations, especially over opening access wider to its long-protected farm sector. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters over the weekend that Japan might push ahead with a revised, 11-nation version of the TPP despite the U.S. rejection of the trade accord. As Indiana governor, Pence saw firsthand the impact of Japanese automakers Toyota, Honda and Subaru, whose factories employ thousands of people in his home state. During his visit to South Korea, at the outset of his 10-day trip to Asia, Pence's attention mostly was directed at the North Korean situation. While inspecting the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea, Pence warned Pyongyang that after years of testing the U.S. and South Korea with its nuclear ambitions, "the era of strategic patience is over." Suga, the Japanese government spokesman, said Japan hopes to discuss policies on North Korea with Pence and to convey a growing sense of urgency over its missile tests and other actions. ——— Associated Press writer Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo contributed to this report. Shares                  Pence visits Japan, turning focus to trade with key ally   What's at stake in North Korea?   Trump order would target high-skilled worker visa program   Spicer defends White House policy on visitor logs   One dead, two injured after military chopper crashes in Maryland   Houston couple complains of being booted from United flight   Dozens still missing in Sri Lankan garbage collapse; 30 dead   Dao video a 'watershed moment' for United, embattled CEO says   Gorsuch dives into the fray at first Supreme Court arguments   Arkansas judge barred from execution cases after protest   Canada glacier melt rerouted in rare case of 'river piracy'   Stay-at-home dad leaves hilarious Post-its around house for his wife   Marine dad surprised with tea party photo shoot   Rooftop pool hangs 500 feet above downtown Houston   Twins get accepted into 40 colleges, receive $900K in scholarships   Baby, mom, grandpa fight life-threatening illnesses at once   Firefighters name kitten Porsche after rescuing her from car engine   Benedict XVI has beer, party for 90th birthday at Vatican   Abe: Japan planning for refugees in event of Korean crisis   Toxic chemical spill closes Atlanta freeway   Ex-South Korean leader Park indicted, faces trial   France's would-be presidents rally in Paris days before vote   Crews search for hikers swept away in Grand Canyon creek   Suspect in Washington mall shooting found dead   Netflix on the verge of hitting 100 million subscribers   Turkey's president Erdogan fulfills ambition, but at a cost   The Latest: Turkish leader gets call from Trump after vote   A look back at the rise of marijuana in the US   More than half of US adults have tried marijuana, poll finds   How to talk to your kids about pot   Lena Dunham on Hannah's 'selfless' 'Girls' finale   Kim Kardashian West on Kanye's hospitalization: 'This is being a wife'   UN: Nearly half a million Iraqis have fled Mosul fighting   How state trooper, DNA helped catch Mass. jogger's alleged killer   Melissa Etheridge admits she's smoked pot with her 2 grown children   Melania Trump introduces kids to 'Party Animals' at Easter event   Campaign to name April the giraffe's calf launched

U.S. Vice President Mike Pence arrived in Japan for talks Tuesday expected to focus largely on trade with America's anchor ally in the region.

Concluding a visit to South Korea, Pence told business leaders in Seoul the administration is taking a fresh look at trade agreements as part of its "America First" policy.

"We're reviewing all of our trade agreements across the world to ensure that they benefit our economy as much as they benefit our trading partners," Pence told the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea.

White House officials said the economic meetings in Tokyo, with Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso and other officials, are meant to forge a framework for future discussions after the U.S. withdrew from a Pacific Rim trade pact.

They will serve as the kickoff to the U.S.-Japan economic dialogue that was announced by President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in February.

While Japan's trade surplus with the U.S. is much smaller than China's, Trump has decried the imbalance, especially in auto exports.

In Japan, they said Pence's two main goals are to spur increased U.S. access to Japanese markets and strengthen Japanese foreign investment.

Both sides said they do not expect the talks in Tokyo this week to delve into sector-by-sector talks on trade. With no U.S. Trade Representative yet in office and other key negotiator positions still unfilled, such nitty-gritty discussions will have to come later.

But the meetings could indicate how forcefully the U.S. will pressure Japan to further open its farm and automotive sectors.

Pence's advisers said the vice president would make the case to Abe and Aso that the U.S. rejection of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, or TPP, under Trump did not signal a U.S. withdrawal from trade and economic development in the region.

Before Pence's arrival, Aso told reporters the talks were meant to provide, "not friction, but cooperation."

In preliminary meetings Tuesday, U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross sat down with Japan's trade minister, Hiroshige Seko.

Ross has said he hopes to soon begin talks on a free trade agreement with Japan.

The loss of U.S. participation in the TPP was a blow to Japan following strenuous negotiations, especially over opening access wider to its long-protected farm sector.

Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters over the weekend that Japan might push ahead with a revised, 11-nation version of the TPP despite the U.S. rejection of the trade accord.

As Indiana governor, Pence saw firsthand the impact of Japanese automakers Toyota, Honda and Subaru, whose factories employ thousands of people in his home state.

During his visit to South Korea, at the outset of his 10-day trip to Asia, Pence's attention mostly was directed at the North Korean situation.

While inspecting the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea, Pence warned Pyongyang that after years of testing the U.S. and South Korea with its nuclear ambitions, "the era of strategic patience is over."

Suga, the Japanese government spokesman, said Japan hopes to discuss policies on North Korea with Pence and to convey a growing sense of urgency over its missile tests and other actions.

———

Associated Press writer Mari Yamaguchi in Tokyo contributed to this report.