PNG authorities investigate allegations soldiers shot at Manus Island detainees



PNG authorities investigate allegations soldiers shot at Manus Island detainees

Posted

Authorities in Papua New Guinea are investigating a shooting at the Australian-run detention centre on Manus Island allegedly committed by PNG Defence Force personnel on Friday.

The soldiers allegedly fired shots into the detention centre after a fight with asylum seekers.

The shooting was reportedly in response to an earlier fight between asylum seekers and PNG Defence Force personnel from the adjacent Lombrum Naval Base.

PNG Defence Force Chief of Staff Colonel Ray Numa said initial investigations by staff at Lombrum had been done and a legal team from Port Moresby had been sent to Manus.

He said they had been given two weeks to investigate and identify the soldiers involved.

"Misuse of weapons is a serious breach of military conduct especially where rules of engagement were not used. We want to clear this as quickly as possible and have those involved held accountable for their actions," Colonel Numa said.

The Defence Force viewed it as a very serious breach of the code of military discipline, he added.

"Those found to be in breach of civil laws would be dealt with by the police," Mr Numa said.

Manus Provincial Police Commander David Yapu said police investigations would take at least one week with a report to be provided on April 26.

Mr Yapu said although the situation was calm there was still tension within the detention centre.

"Police, the provincial government, local village councillors, representatives from the Australia Immigration and the PNGDF have met over the weekend and agreed that once all investigations are complete those responsible will be held accountable. We want normalcy returned," he said.

"Security measures have been beefed up and most locals in communities who are employed at the detention centre say the actions by soldiers are disgraceful."

Topics: defence-and-national-security, government-and-politics, immigration, community-and-society, papua-new-guinea, asia, pacific, australia