Theresa May to make surprise Downing Street statement - Politics live

This is from the BBC’s The last time the lectern was used without a Govt insignia was when Cameron called the General election on 30 March 2015: pic.twitter.com/OT97jqLAEf      Theresa May 'to call general election on 8 June', BBC reports Hearing May will announce General Election for June 8th - one source not confirmed Updated       This is from Guido Fawkes. Fiona Hill is Theresa May’s co-chief of staff. Fiona Hill texts @adamboultonSKY to say she will be making a formal complaint to Sky News over speculation about PM's health      This is from the Times’s No black prime ministerial seal on May's lectern. Usually a signal that PM is making a party political statement...      If Theresa May is not going to announce an early election, it may be something equally big. Her surprise resignation on health grounds? That seems highly improbable, but it would suit the Mail on Sunday’s Dan Hodges, who wrote a column just yesterday saying May was planning to quit. There has also been speculation about May making an announcement relating to direct rule in Northern Ireland. But she has shown little interest in Northern Ireland affairs, and James Brokenshire, the Northern Ireland secretary, would be expected to make an announcement of this kind.      Graeme Wearden The pound took an immediate dip, from $1.26 to $1.253, as traders brace for fresh political drama in Westminster. The selloff was triggered by talk of a snap general election, as of explains “The pound plunged like a stone on news that Prime Minister Theresa May is about to make a major announcement outside Number 10 at 11:15 (BST). The rumour mill says it’s going to be a snap election – that would throw up a huge cluster grenade of political risk, uncertainty and potential volatility in the markets. At the extreme this could even spark a reversal in the entire Brexit process. May would have to get parliament to agree to this but we know most MPs are positively brimming to head back to the polls to seek fresh mandates in the wake of the Brexit vote. The Tories have a thumping majority in the polls at the moment so the PM may just be gambling on significantly boosting her rather slender majority in Parliament. It’s an old cliche that markets hate uncertainty ). But right now, all the excitement in Downing Street is certainly weighing on the pound. Current rumours on PM announcement: 1. Snap Election 2. PM to resign on health Grounds 3. No one has a clue #GBP      Downing Street have had almost an hour now to discourage journalists from speculating about an early election. They are not doing that, which increases the chances that it will be an election announcement.      Buckingham Palace has confirmed that the Queen is currently resident at Windsor Castle, my colleague reports. Before the Fixed-term Parliaments Act that was a consideration, because the prime minister had to see the Queen to call an election. Now that is no longer necessary, although David Cameron did call a courtesy call on the Queen before the 2015 election anyway. But, if there is going to be an election, May would have to have a vote in the Commons first to over-rule the Fixed-term Parliaments Act. Updated       Will May call an early election? - Five reason why she might, and 5 reasons why she might not The surprise announcement that Theresa May is going to make a statement in Downing Street this morning has renewed speculation that she will call an early election. Here are some reasons why she might - and why she might not? Five reasons why she might call an early election This was YouGov yesterday. Latest Westminster voting intention (12-13 Apr) Con - 44% Lab - 23% LD - 12% UKIP - 10% Oth - 10% https://t.co/yf3kP5CntS  pic.twitter.com/ErC8Gi8AmL And these figures may be even more important than the state of the party polling. Who would make the best Prime Minister? Theresa May 50%, Jeremy Corbyn 14%, don't know 36% https://t.co/yf3kP5CntS  pic.twitter.com/Rt6ymQpmuA And ComRes found an identical lead for the Tories over the weekend. New ComRes voter intention figures: CON currently at 46%, 21pts ahead of LAB at 25% @TheSundayMirror  @Independent  https://t.co/CGkvXHCCh7 May would be able to get the election out of way within about six weeks, which would not really interfere with the negotiations. The big advantage in having an election now is that during the negotiations she is almost certainly going to have to make compromises that will be unpalatable to hardline pro-leave voters and Tory MPs. If the election is in 2020, as it is meant to be, she may have to go to the polls explaining why the UK is still paying money to the EU, accepting European court of justice rulings etc. If she could win a majority now, she would be safe for another five years. An election now would eliminate the risk of prosecutions leading to byelections in these seats. He dithered over calling an election at a time when it would have suited him, but called it off at the last moment, having let public speculation get out of hand. May until now has firmly ruled out an election, meaning that if she called one now, it would come as a complete surprise. And five reasons why she might not. t is not obvious what reason May would be able to give to justify such an abrupt U-turn. In fact, having had the referendum last year, people may be suffering from voting fatigue. And there is some evidence that voters punish politicians who haul them to the polls unnecessarily. It is too late to hold a general election then, and so a general election campaign would have to start after then. Voters would end up with two elections within two months. Updated       This is true. A sign of how loyal Theresa May's staff are that not a single political journalist knows what's going on      This is from the BBC’s home duty editor The BBC newsroom is going crazy      This is from Bloomberg’s Pound pic.twitter.com/A7AU4FG7Gr      A colleague in the press gallery has just stuck his head into our office to pose this question: “Election? War? Or resigning? Which is it?” Of course, it could be something a lot more innocuous.      This is from ITV’s . @theresa_may making statement in Downing St at 11.15. Syria? NK? Or just poss that thing I always thought she would do, ie election? Flip!      Watch election rumour mill go crazy.... has May decided to go for it?      Watch election rumour mill go crazy.... has May decided to go for it?      Theresa May to make statement in Downing Street at 11.15 The BBC’s has tweeted this. PM making a statement in Downing Street at 1115 - only normally used for most serious moments      Corbyn says most Labour voters, members and MPs support his policies Here are some of the key points from ’s interview on ITV’s Good Morning Britain. I think the issue will get out there more and more, people will begin to understand that we don’t have to go through these levels of austerity in Britain, we don’t have to have these levels of inequality in Britain. I think people will begin to see that actually what we are saying makes a lot of credible sense. During the interview he clashed with the presenter, Piers Morgan, complaining that Morgan was only interested in polling and his leadership. And Corbyn said: I’m not going to go into any big public self analysis. What I will say is of course I reflect on issues, I reflect on decisions we’ve made. I reflect on all of this, all the time. I want the party to be united around these policies. I think you will find the vast majority of Labour members would support these policies. Labour voters would support these policies and I think the vast majority of the parliamentary Labour party. . When asked to name a mistake he had made, at first he refused to answer. Then he said: I can’t give you a mistake this morning. There are too many. Morgan, who, like Corbyn, is an Arsenal fan, said that Corbyn was like the Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger in that they both refused to admit mistakes. Corbyn said this comparision was “nonsense” and “absurd”. After the interview was over Morgan posted his verdict on Twitter. I can't help liking @jeremycorbyn . Like Wenger, a decent principled man - but seems oblivious to reality.      Having a gun may not have saved PC killed in Westminster terror attack, says new Met chief Welcome back. I hope everyone had a good Easter. MPs return to the Commons after the break, although they are observing Monday hours (ie, starting at 2.30pm), not normal Tuesday hours. Jeremy Corbyn has been on ITV’s Good Morning Britain this morning. I missed the interview, but will post on it later, when I’ve caught up. But I did catch , the new Metropolitan police commissioner, who has been on LBC and on the Today programme. Asked about the Westminster terror attack, she suggested that she is not in favour of all police officers guarding parliament being armed. Speaking about the killing of PC Keith Palmer, she said: There were several armed officers within the vicinity, several armed officers protecting Parliament, we did protect parliament. It’s an absolute tragedy that Keith was killed. I don’t think we can be certain, but let’s see what all the reviews say, but I really don’t think we can be certain that an armed officer would necessarily have been able to protect themselves or to intervene earlier ... What I would say is that it appears to me that in this particularly scenario is is very hard to say that if Keith had been armed he would be alive today. I think the speed of the attack - “action beats reaction” is what the firearms officers always say to me - and there’s a backdrop of loads of members of the public where he was standing. So it might have been, even if he had had a firearm, difficult for him to take a shot. I will post more from the interviews soon. Here is the agenda for the day. Number 10 lobby briefing. The home affairs committee takes evidence on immigration in Wakefield. Philip Hammond, the chancellor, takes questions in the Commons. Jeremy Corbyn meets carers in Birmingham to highlight Labour’s pledge to increase the carer’s allowance by £10. As usual, I will be covering breaking political news as it happens, as well as bringing you the best reaction, comment and analysis from the web. I plan to post a summary at lunchtime and another in the afternoon. You can read all today’s Guardian politics stories here. If you want to follow me or contact me on Twitter, I’m on @AndrewSparrow. I try to monitor the comments BTL but normally I find it impossible to read them all. If you have a direct question, do include “Andrew” in it somewhere and I’m more likely to find it. I do try to answer direct questions, although sometimes I miss them or don’t have time. Alternatively you could post a question to me on Twitter. Updated   Politics   Politics live with Andrew Sparrow   Philip Hammond   Cressida Dick   Metropolitan police   Police   London

“The pound plunged like a stone on news that Prime Minister Theresa May is about to make a major announcement outside Number 10 at 11:15 (BST).

The rumour mill says it’s going to be a snap election – that would throw up a huge cluster grenade of political risk, uncertainty and potential volatility in the markets. At the extreme this could even spark a reversal in the entire Brexit process.

May would have to get parliament to agree to this but we know most MPs are positively brimming to head back to the polls to seek fresh mandates in the wake of the Brexit vote. The Tories have a thumping majority in the polls at the moment so the PM may just be gambling on significantly boosting her rather slender majority in Parliament.