American Airlines Drops Charter Flights for Six NFL Teams Including Dolphins and Steelers
American Airlines Drops Charter Flights for Six NFL Teams Including Dolphins and Steelers
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Ted Reed       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. The Chicago Bears disembark from a United Airlines charter at Miami International Airport before the 2007 Super Bowl. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images) American Airlines says it has suspended its arrangements to provide charter flights for six NFL teams because it lacks sufficient aircraft. American will end agreements to fly the Arizona Cardinals, the Baltimore Ravens, the Indianapolis Colts, the Jacksonville Jaguars, the Miami Dolphins and the Pittsburgh Steelers during the 2017-2018 season, according to an internal memo obtained by American will, however, continue to transport three teams: the Carolina Panthers, the Dallas Cowboys and the Philadelphia Eagles. It is hard to ascertain a clear pattern in the selection. Dallas is American’s biggest hub in terms of departures, passengers and employees. Charlotte is second biggest in terms of departures and passengers.  Dallas, Charlotte, and Philadelphia all have maintenance bases. But Miami and Phoenix are also hubs. Miami has a maintenance base and ranks third in both employees and passengers. Chicago is third in terms of daily departures. “After careful evaluation, we are reducing the number of charter operations for 2017 to ensure we have the right aircraft available for our passenger operation,” said American spokeswoman Lakeesha Brown. In the memo, American informs crew members, who had the ability to bid for the chartered flights as part of their flying schedules, of the change. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

American Airlines says it has suspended its arrangements to provide charter flights for six NFL teams because it lacks sufficient aircraft.

American will end agreements to fly the Arizona Cardinals, the Baltimore Ravens, the Indianapolis Colts, the Jacksonville Jaguars, the Miami Dolphins and the Pittsburgh Steelers during the 2017-2018 season, according to an internal memo obtained by Forbes.

American will, however, continue to transport three teams: the Carolina Panthers, the Dallas Cowboys and the Philadelphia Eagles.

It is hard to ascertain a clear pattern in the selection. Dallas is American’s biggest hub in terms of departures, passengers and employees. Charlotte is second biggest in terms of departures and passengers. Dallas, Charlotte, and Philadelphia all have maintenance bases.

But Miami and Phoenix are also hubs. Miami has a maintenance base and ranks third in both employees and passengers. Chicago is third in terms of daily departures.

“After careful evaluation, we are reducing the number of charter operations for 2017 to ensure we have the right aircraft available for our passenger operation,” said American spokeswoman Lakeesha Brown.

In the memo, American informs crew members, who had the ability to bid for the chartered flights as part of their flying schedules, of the change.