President Trump to sign executive order targeting foreign work visas
Trump to sign executive order targeting foreign work visas
Shares               President Donald Trump is set to sign an executive order titled “Buy American, Hire American” Tuesday morning in Kenosha, Wisconsin, calling on agencies to overhaul the H-1B visa program. The order calls on the Department of Labor , the Department of Justice , the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department to “take prompt action to crack down on fraud and abuse” within the U.S. immigration system to "protect workers." The order doesn't seem to change the status of existing visa waiver rules in the United States and instead orders departments to review and identify potential "abuses" of the visa waiver system. The order aligns with President Trump's promise as a candidate to review visa programs to prioritize the goal of "buy American, Hire American," even as the president's own company, the Trump Organization, has often opted to take an alternate route. The company has used existing visa waiver laws in order to fill positions with foreign workers in Trump properties such as Mar-a-Lago and Trump Vineyard. The president will travel to Wisconsin today and is expected to tout his “Buy American, Hire American” agenda during a visit to Snap-on-Tools -- a manufacturer of high-end tools and equipment that, according to their website, employs approximately 11,500 people worldwide. “He will talk about his buy America, hire America agenda at Snap-on Tools in Wisconsin,” White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said. “For those who aren’t aware, Snap-on is a prime example of a company that builds American-made tools, with American workers for U.S. taxpayers.” This marks the president’s first visit to Speaker Paul Ryan ’s home state and district since taking office. Shares                  Trump to sign executive order targeting foreign work visas   The Note: Georgia on Trump's mind   Comic Hari Kondabolu on Trump, racism and his rise to fame   Examining the Trump administration's stance on the WH visitor log   Spicer defends White House policy on visitor logs   Trump could release his taxes but probably won't, experts say   Melania Trump introduces kids to 'Party Animals' at Easter event   Trump says North Korea has 'gotta behave'   The Note: Pence pays a visit to Korean Peninsula   How Gorsuch’s confirmation could affect the Supreme Court   Pence declares end to 'strategic patience' on N. Korea   Trump's rhetoric on N. Korea 'makes people nervous' but actions are positive: former US envoy   What's at stake in North Korea?   US Supreme Court stops execution of Arkansas death row inmate   UK PM calls for general election on June 8   Alligator surprises family on Easter morning   Dramatic ice rescue of 5 horses caught on video   Florida firefighters rescue horse trapped in mud pit   Up-close footage of Nebraska tornado   Elephant fights off crocodile   Wild goose chase for one unsuspecting cop in Indiana   Lava flows out of Mount Etna in Sicily   Creepy cobweb coats New Zealand soccer field   Stay-at-home dad leaves hilarious Post-its around house for his wife   Marine dad surprised with tea party photo shoot   Rooftop pool hangs 500 feet above downtown Houston

President Donald Trump is set to sign an executive order titled “Buy American, Hire American” Tuesday morning in Kenosha, Wisconsin, calling on agencies to overhaul the H-1B visa program.

The order calls on the Department of Labor, the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department to “take prompt action to crack down on fraud and abuse” within the U.S. immigration system to "protect workers."

The order doesn't seem to change the status of existing visa waiver rules in the United States and instead orders departments to review and identify potential "abuses" of the visa waiver system.

The order aligns with President Trump's promise as a candidate to review visa programs to prioritize the goal of "buy American, Hire American," even as the president's own company, the Trump Organization, has often opted to take an alternate route. The company has used existing visa waiver laws in order to fill positions with foreign workers in Trump properties such as Mar-a-Lago and Trump Vineyard.

The president will travel to Wisconsin today and is expected to tout his “Buy American, Hire American” agenda during a visit to Snap-on-Tools -- a manufacturer of high-end tools and equipment that, according to their website, employs approximately 11,500 people worldwide.

“He will talk about his buy America, hire America agenda at Snap-on Tools in Wisconsin,” White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said. “For those who aren’t aware, Snap-on is a prime example of a company that builds American-made tools, with American workers for U.S. taxpayers.”

This marks the president’s first visit to Speaker Paul Ryan’s home state and district since taking office.