Cleveland Facebook killing reported in emotional 911 call: 'He’s dead ... Lord have mercy'
Cleveland Facebook killing reported in emotional 911 call: 'He’s dead ... Lord have mercy'
Shares               "He’s dead ... He’s lying there. Lord have mercy. Oh, my God," a distraught-sounding Cleveland woman said to a 911 operator after she heard a gunshot and saw a man dead outside. The woman dialed 911 Sunday afternoon in Cleveland after murder suspect Steve Stephens allegedly gunned down 74-year-old Robert Godwin Sr. and later posted a video of the killing on Facebook, according to police. In another 911 call that day, a man reported: "Someone in front of my house has been shot ... He’s unconscious, he’s dead." Stephens has been on the run since Sunday and there have been no credible sightings of him, authorities said. The manhunt for Stephens, who is considered armed and dangerous, is now nationwide.       Stephens claimed to have committed multiple homicides, according to police, but no additional victims have been found. Facebook released the following timeline of events connected to the suspect, according to its records:  11:09 a.m. PDT — First video, of intent to murder, uploaded. Not reported to Facebook. 11:11 a.m. PDT — Second video, of shooting, uploaded. 11:22 a.m. PDT — Suspect confesses to murder while using Live, is live for 5 minutes. 11:27 a.m. PDT — Live ends, and Live video is first reported shortly after. 12:59 p.m. PDT — Video of shooting is first reported. 1:22 p.m. PDT — Suspect’s account disabled; all videos no longer visible to public.  A Facebook executive on Monday said the company is reviewing some of its practices in light of the incident. "It was a horrific crime — one that has no place on Facebook, and goes against our policies and everything we stand for," Facebook VP of Global Operations Justin Osofsky said Monday. "As a result of this terrible series of events, we are reviewing our reporting flows to be sure people can report videos and other material that violates our standards as easily and quickly as possible." Godwin's daughter, Tonya Godwin Baines, told ABC News the video "forever will be in my mind because I saw the fear in my father's eyes." Baines said it "feels like our heart is just ripped out of our chest. For somebody to brutally murder my father like that is unbelievable."   Baines said her father was the epitome of a family man who "would give you the shirt off his back." "He taught us about God, he taught us love, forgiveness. Just to know that I will never ever hear my father's voice again is devastating," Baines said. "We can never replace him," she added, crying. "A part of us died with him." Her sister, Debbie Godwin, told ABC News, "I truly can say I don't even feel any animosity against the guy that killed my father.   "I'm glad that my parents taught us to love people and to forgive even when they do us wrong," she said. "My dad would be the kind of person that would say, 'You gotta forgive.'" "I want him to get help," Debbie Godwin said of the suspected gunman. Angela Smalls, who said Robert Godwin is the father of two of her children, is pleading for Stephens to turn himself in.   "He took my kids’ father from them and you’re still breathing out here? My babies are hurting," a tearful Smalls said, according to ABC affiliate WEWS in Cleveland. "Let them get some peace. Just turn yourself in, please." Stephens visited the Sherwin Shooting Sports shooting range in Eastlake, Ohio last summer, a representative of the business told ABC News. Stephens had a concealed carry permit, police said, according to WEWS. Police said Monday that authorities don’t have any reason to believe Stephens is not still driving a white Ford Fusion with temporary tag E363630.  UPDATE Homicide suspect Steve Stephens' actual vehicle has Ohio Temp tag E363630 pic.twitter.com/tE3r5u4BNN  A reward of up to $50,000 is being offered for information leading to his arrest.  Chief Williams: We will follow up on EVERY tip. Please call 1-800-Call FBI with tips. If you see Steve Stephens, dial 9-1-1.   Shares                  Cleveland Facebook killing reported in emotional 911 call: 'He’s dead ... Lord have mercy'   What's at stake in North Korea?   US Supreme Court stops execution of Arkansas death row inmate   UK Prime Minister Theresa May calls for general election on June 8   Spicer defends White House policy on visitor logs   1 dead, 2 injured after military chopper crashes in southern Maryland   Houston couple complains of being booted from United flight   Dozens still missing in Sri Lankan garbage collapse; 30 dead   Dao video a 'watershed moment' for United, embattled CEO says   Man accused of stealing more than 100 cellphones at Coachella   Gorsuch dives into the fray at first Supreme Court arguments   Alligator surprises family on Easter morning   Dramatic ice rescue of 5 horses caught on video   Florida firefighters rescue horse trapped in mud pit   Up-close footage of Nebraska tornado   Elephant fights off crocodile   Wild goose chase for one unsuspecting cop in Indiana   Lava flows out of Mount Etna in Sicily   Creepy cobweb coats New Zealand soccer field   Stay-at-home dad leaves hilarious Post-its around house for his wife   Marine dad surprised with tea party photo shoot   Rooftop pool hangs 500 feet above downtown Houston   Space station supply ship at launch pad honors John Glenn   Disgruntled French steel workers turn to populist Le Pen   Australia scraps visa for skilled foreign workers   At least 26 dead as bus plunges into ravine in Philippines   Israel: No talks with Palestinian inmates on hunger strike   Crews search for hikers swept away in Grand Canyon creek   Benedict XVI has beer, party for 90th birthday at Vatican   Turkey's president Erdogan fulfills ambition, but at a cost   The Latest: Turkish leader gets call from Trump after vote   First woman to officially run Boston Marathon finishes race again at 70   Kenyans Kirui, Kiplagat win 121st Boston Marathon   Lena Dunham on Hannah's 'selfless' 'Girls' finale   Kim Kardashian West on Kanye's hospitalization: 'This is being a wife'   Netflix on the verge of hitting 100 million subscribers   How state trooper, DNA helped catch Mass. jogger's alleged killer   'Dancing with the Stars' recap: Normani Kordei brings the magic on Disney Night   Initial reactions to 'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2' are very positive   Campaign to name April the giraffe's calf launched

"He’s dead ... He’s lying there. Lord have mercy. Oh, my God," a distraught-sounding Cleveland woman said to a 911 operator after she heard a gunshot and saw a man dead outside.

The woman dialed 911 Sunday afternoon in Cleveland after murder suspect Steve Stephens allegedly gunned down 74-year-old Robert Godwin Sr. and later posted a video of the killing on Facebook, according to police.

In another 911 call that day, a man reported: "Someone in front of my house has been shot ... He’s unconscious, he’s dead."

Stephens has been on the run since Sunday and there have been no credible sightings of him, authorities said. The manhunt for Stephens, who is considered armed and dangerous, is now nationwide.

Facebook via Reuters

Stephens claimed to have committed multiple homicides, according to police, but no additional victims have been found.

Facebook released the following timeline of events connected to the suspect, according to its records:

11:09 a.m. PDT — First video, of intent to murder, uploaded. Not reported to Facebook.



11:11 a.m. PDT — Second video, of shooting, uploaded.



11:22 a.m. PDT — Suspect confesses to murder while using Live, is live for 5 minutes.



11:27 a.m. PDT — Live ends, and Live video is first reported shortly after.



12:59 p.m. PDT — Video of shooting is first reported.



1:22 p.m. PDT — Suspect’s account disabled; all videos no longer visible to public.



A Facebook executive on Monday said the company is reviewing some of its practices in light of the incident.

"It was a horrific crime — one that has no place on Facebook, and goes against our policies and everything we stand for," Facebook VP of Global Operations Justin Osofsky said Monday. "As a result of this terrible series of events, we are reviewing our reporting flows to be sure people can report videos and other material that violates our standards as easily and quickly as possible."

Godwin's daughter, Tonya Godwin Baines, told ABC News the video "forever will be in my mind because I saw the fear in my father's eyes."

Baines said it "feels like our heart is just ripped out of our chest. For somebody to brutally murder my father like that is unbelievable."

Cleveland Police

Baines said her father was the epitome of a family man who "would give you the shirt off his back."

"He taught us about God, he taught us love, forgiveness. Just to know that I will never ever hear my father's voice again is devastating," Baines said.

"We can never replace him," she added, crying. "A part of us died with him."

Her sister, Debbie Godwin, told ABC News, "I truly can say I don't even feel any animosity against the guy that killed my father.

The Associated Press

"I'm glad that my parents taught us to love people and to forgive even when they do us wrong," she said. "My dad would be the kind of person that would say, 'You gotta forgive.'"

"I want him to get help," Debbie Godwin said of the suspected gunman.

Angela Smalls, who said Robert Godwin is the father of two of her children, is pleading for Stephens to turn himself in.

The Associated Press

"He took my kids’ father from them and you’re still breathing out here? My babies are hurting," a tearful Smalls said, according to ABC affiliate WEWS in Cleveland. "Let them get some peace. Just turn yourself in, please."

Stephens visited the Sherwin Shooting Sports shooting range in Eastlake, Ohio last summer, a representative of the business told ABC News. Stephens had a concealed carry permit, police said, according to WEWS.

Police said Monday that authorities don’t have any reason to believe Stephens is not still driving a white Ford Fusion with temporary tag E363630.

UPDATE Homicide suspect Steve Stephens' actual vehicle has Ohio Temp tag E363630 pic.twitter.com/tE3r5u4BNN — Cleveland Police (@CLEpolice) April 17, 2017

A reward of up to $50,000 is being offered for information leading to his arrest.

Chief Williams: We will follow up on EVERY tip. Please call 1-800-Call FBI with tips.

If you see Steve Stephens, dial 9-1-1. — Cleveland Police (@CLEpolice) April 17, 2017

ABC News' Dominick Proto contributed to this report.