The D.C. mayor is on ‘personal travel’ and her office won’t say to where

D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser is traveling for six days and her office will only say that she is on personal travel. It is at least the third time since taking office in 2015 that Bowser (D) has left the District for several days and her public schedule has not reflected her absence. Balancing personal privacy and public responsibility is a fraught topic for elected leaders. But the travel of D.C. leaders has been an especially sensitive topic since former mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) traveled to China and the United Arab Emirates on trips announced as personal travel that city officials later disclosed were paid for by foreign governments . In a statement Monday, Bowser spokesman Kevin Harris said that the mayor was paying her own way, but not where she was. Asked whether a security detail or any other city employee was accompanying Bowser at taxpayer expense, Harris said no. The mayor’s taxpayer funded salary is $200,000. “The Mayor is on personal travel and will resume a public schedule on Thursday,” Harris wrote in an email. “ She remains in regular contact and communications with city leadership.” As during previous trips, however, the mayor’s absence was not shared with members of the D.C. Council. Council Chairman Phil Mendelson (D) said Monday that he was unaware of the mayor’s absence. Told of her travel by a reporter, Mendelson said he assumed Bowser would have delegated mayoral authority to a senior staff member for the duration of her absence. Harris, however, said the mayor had not done so: “There is no signed delegation of authority,” he said. “As is the case whenever she travels, Mayor is in regular contact with city leadership and her cabinet who continue to fulfill their roles and responsibilities.” In case of emergencies, most states require a governor to designate an acting leader when he or she leaves state borders. But in the District, many emergency powers of a governor rest with the federal government, including the ability to mobilize the D.C. National Guard. Bowser’s trip falls the same week that D.C. public schools are on spring break. Monday was also the District’s Emancipation Day holiday, commemorating the 1862 end of slavery in the city, three years before the end of the Civil War. In tweets Sunday from the mayor’s official Twitter account, Bowser wrote, “Happy Emancipation Day, DC” and in another she wrote, “Due to the Easter holiday, DC Emancipation Day festivities were held last weekend.” A year ago, Bowser used Emancipation Day to call for a citywide vote on what became a successful ballot measure in favor of petitioning Congress to designate the District as the 51st state.   D.C. Attorney General Karl A. Racine is also traveling this week. He is in Kenya with the attorney general of Illinois attending a conference on human and sex trafficking. “Extraordinary,” Racine wrote Monday in a text message. “I learned at least as much as I imparted.”    The council chairman said he appreciated that “the mayor wants privacy” on her trip. “At the same time, there shouldn’t be total secrecy about her travel. And there should be no secrecy with regard to government expense.” Harris would not say whether Bowser’s security detail accompanied her to an airport or train station or on any portion of her travel. He also would not say whether she was in the United States or traveling abroad. In March 2016, Bowser’s office declined for three days to identify the mayor’s location. When told that information would be printed in a news article, Bowser then responded to a text message from a reporter: “I’m in Jamaica. Personal travel,” she wrote.

D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) marches in the city’s Emancipation Day parade — held nine days early, on April 8 2017. (J. Lawler Duggan/For The Washington Post)

D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser is traveling for six days and her office will only say that she is on personal travel.

It is at least the third time since taking office in 2015 that Bowser (D) has left the District for several days and her public schedule has not reflected her absence.

Balancing personal privacy and public responsibility is a fraught topic for elected leaders. But the travel of D.C. leaders has been an especially sensitive topic since former mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) traveled to China and the United Arab Emirates on trips announced as personal travel that city officials later disclosed were paid for by foreign governments.

In a statement Monday, Bowser spokesman Kevin Harris said that the mayor was paying her own way, but not where she was. Asked whether a security detail or any other city employee was accompanying Bowser at taxpayer expense, Harris said no. The mayor’s taxpayer funded salary is $200,000.

“The Mayor is on personal travel and will resume a public schedule on Thursday,” Harris wrote in an email. “ She remains in regular contact and communications with city leadership.”

D.C. Mayor Muriel E. Bowser (D) takes a selfie with students at Jesús Suárez Gayol high school in Havana, Cuba, on February 23, 2016. (Bonnie Jo Mount/Washington Post)

As during previous trips, however, the mayor’s absence was not shared with members of the D.C. Council.

Council Chairman Phil Mendelson (D) said Monday that he was unaware of the mayor’s absence. Told of her travel by a reporter, Mendelson said he assumed Bowser would have delegated mayoral authority to a senior staff member for the duration of her absence.

Harris, however, said the mayor had not done so: “There is no signed delegation of authority,” he said. “As is the case whenever she travels, Mayor is in regular contact with city leadership and her cabinet who continue to fulfill their roles and responsibilities.”

In case of emergencies, most states require a governor to designate an acting leader when he or she leaves state borders. But in the District, many emergency powers of a governor rest with the federal government, including the ability to mobilize the D.C. National Guard.

Bowser’s trip falls the same week that D.C. public schools are on spring break. Monday was also the District’s Emancipation Day holiday, commemorating the 1862 end of slavery in the city, three years before the end of the Civil War.

In tweets Sunday from the mayor’s official Twitter account, Bowser wrote, “Happy Emancipation Day, DC” and in another she wrote, “Due to the Easter holiday, DC Emancipation Day festivities were held last weekend.”

A year ago, Bowser used Emancipation Day to call for a citywide vote on what became a successful ballot measure in favor of petitioning Congress to designate the District as the 51st state.

D.C. Attorney General Karl A. Racine is also traveling this week. He is in Kenya with the attorney general of Illinois attending a conference on human and sex trafficking. “Extraordinary,” Racine wrote Monday in a text message. “I learned at least as much as I imparted.”

[D.C. officials praise Cuban schools, where students have little choice]

The council chairman said he appreciated that “the mayor wants privacy” on her trip. “At the same time, there shouldn’t be total secrecy about her travel. And there should be no secrecy with regard to government expense.”

Harris would not say whether Bowser’s security detail accompanied her to an airport or train station or on any portion of her travel. He also would not say whether she was in the United States or traveling abroad.

In March 2016, Bowser’s office declined for three days to identify the mayor’s location. When told that information would be printed in a news article, Bowser then responded to a text message from a reporter:

“I’m in Jamaica. Personal travel,” she wrote.