IMF upgrades UK growth again as Theresa May hails economic strength
IMF upgrades UK growth again as Theresa May hails economic strength
heresa May hailed the strength of Britain's economy on Tuesday as the International Monetary Fund upgraded its forecast for UK growth this year by more than any other major economy. The pound hit a four month high against the dollar after the Prime Minister called a snap election and vowed to "get the job done" on Brexit. Mrs May said a general election on June 8 would bring unity at Westminster as well as the "certainty, stability and strong leadership" needed as the UK begins negotiations to leave the EU. Mrs May's announcement came as the IMF raised its forecast for UK growth this year for the second time in three months. n a further backtrack on its pre-referendum warnings of a possible recession and stock market collapse , the IMF raised its forecast for UK growth this year to 2pc, from a prediction of 1.5pc in January. This represents the biggest upgrade of any major economy and means the UK is expected to grow faster than France, Germany and all other G7 economies this year apart from the US. While UK growth is expected to slow to 1.5pc in 2018 as higher inflation puts the brakes on consumer spending, the economy is still expected to grow at the same pace as Germany next year. he Prime Minister signalled that the resilience of the economy had given her the confidence to seek parliamentary approval for a snap election. "Despite predictions of immediate financial and economic danger, since the referendum we have seen consumer confidence remain high, record numbers of jobs, and economic growth that has exceeded all expectations," she said. he pound jumped to $1.2715 following Mrs May's comments, reversing an earlier drop to climb to its highest level since the start of the year. "Pound traders obviously see Mrs May as a stabilising force," said Kathleen Brooks, research director at City Index. s Brooks said the pound could edge towards $1.30 if the general election goes ahead as planned. "After the massive pound sell-off on the back of the referendum last year, today the market seems to be welcoming Theresa May’s decision to try and solidify her leadership at the helm of the UK’s Brexit mission." he IMF said growth had remained "solid" in the aftermath of last June's EU referendum amid "resilient" consumer spending. The Fund said its UK growth assumptions were based on smooth negotiations with Brussels that are expected to "proceed without raising excessive uncertainty" and "eventually settle in a manner that avoids a very large increase in economic barriers". However, it said the outlook, which did not take into account Mrs May's announcement, remained "highly uncertain". he IMF still expects some "increase in barriers to trade and migration, as well as a potential downsizing of the financial services sector" to weigh on growth. The UK is also expected to keep borrowing to plug a hole between tax revenues and Government expenditure well into the next decade. The Fund believes the UK will run a budget deficit of 0.8pc of gross domestic product (GDP) - or around £14bn at today's prices - in 2022. The Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR), the Government's independent watchdog, believes that on current plans it will not balance the books until after 2025. Philip Hammond, the Chancellor, insisted that the fundamentals of the UK economy remained strong as he said policymakers would "continue to invest in the skills needed for a stronger and fairer Britain" while "playing an active and engaged role in the global economy". Global economy on the up? he IMF also edged up its forecast for global growth this year to 3.5pc, from a projection of 3.4pc in January, as it said the risk of recession over the next 12 months had fallen in almost every global region since October. he Fund said risks to growth remained on the downside, as it urged policymakers to take advantage of the brighter global backdrop to cement the global recovery. "The world economy may be gaining momentum, but we cannot be sure that we are out of the woods," said Maurice Obstfeld, the IMF's chief economist. he Fund identified five big risks that could derail the global recovery including an increase in protectionism that it warned could lead to " trade warfare", uncertainty surrounding the economic policies of US President Donald Trump, and a "dilution of financial regulation" that would boost growth in the short term but "imperil global financial stability and raise the risk of costly financial crises down the road". "Global economic activity is picking up speed, but the potential for disappointments remains high, and momentum is unlikely to be sustained in the absence of efforts by policymakers to implement the right set of policies and avoid missteps," the Fund said in its World Economic Outlook. r Obstfeld called for a "renewed multilateral commitment to support trade" as he appealed for policies to make growth more inclusive. "Historically, inclusive co-operative approaches to interdependence have worked better than denial," he said. The IMF said the medium-term outlook for the eurozone also remained "dim" as "potential growth is held back by weak productivity, adverse demographics, and, in some countries, unresolved legacy problems of public and private debt overhang, with a high level of nonperforming loans".

Theresa May hailed the strength of Britain's economy on Tuesday as the International Monetary Fund upgraded its forecast for UK growth this year by more than any other major economy.

The pound hit a four month high against the dollar after the Prime Minister called a snap election and vowed to "get the job done" on Brexit.

Mrs May said a general election on June 8 would bring unity at Westminster as well as the "certainty, stability and strong leadership" needed as the UK begins negotiations to leave the EU.

Mrs May's announcement came as the IMF raised its forecast for UK growth this year for the second time in three months.