Brexit Bulletin: A Snap Election
Brexit Bulletin: A Snap Election
Is May’s Call for an Early Election a Risky Move? Britons are heading back to the polls. Prime Minister Theresa May’s surprise decision to call a snap election June 8 means that a major vote will be held in the U.K. for a fourth consecutive year, subject to the approval of Parliament. The election had been scheduled to take place in 2020. U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May walks into 10 Downing Street after announcing a general election. Polls show May’s Conservative Party is more than 20 points ahead of the main opposition. If May can extend her narrow majority in Parliament, she will have secured a personal mandate and consolidated her party’s power. Bookmaker Ladbrokes said the Tories are the 1/10 favorites to take the most seats. (A £10 stake would win £1.) May said she was seeking an endorsement of her negotiating stance, and success would strengthen her hand when engaging with Europe. While the election could delay the start of the talks, she might have concluded they weren’t likely to kick into gear anyway before the German election in September. A larger majority would help May in several ways. It would make it easier to pass legislation that would deliver a clean or “hard” Brexit by regaining control of borders and the budget, rather than safeguarding trade. “There was not a majority in the Commons or Lords for a hard Brexit,” said Mujtaba Rahman of the Eurasia Group. “If, however, as we expect May secures a bigger majority, she will have a people’s mandate for a hard Brexit.” At the same time, a larger majority would give her room to make concessions forced upon her by her EU counterparts and which the most vocal Brexit campaigners in her own party might not welcome. “All else equal, that should lower the risk of a very disruptive Brexit as the government should be able to plot a less confrontational exit,” said Mike Amey of Pacific Investment Management. Acting now rather than waiting until 2020 also means May will be running with the economy continuing to show resilience to the Brexit decision. The International Monetary Fund on Tuesday revised its forecast for growth this year to 2 percent from 1.5 percent. The risk is a slowdown could take root by 2020, muddying the campaign waters. Early elections would also make it easier for May to agree to a transitional period, even if if that comes with costs such as having to keep paying into the EU budget. If elections had been held as scheduled in 2020 during such a transition, May could have been vulnerable to criticism that she hadn’t really delivered Brexit. Indeed, Malcolm Barr of JPMorgan suggested a victory would give May the latitude to agree to an extension of Brexit talks beyond 2019 if necessary, making a smooth withdrawal more likely. The risk is that the election emboldens those who regret voting for Brexit in last year’s referendum or increases support for independence in Scotland. U.K. markets gave an early endorsement to May’s decision. The pound jumped to its highest since Feb. 2 and may continue to strengthen, Bloomberg Gadfly said. U.K. gilts erased an advance that had taken 10-year yields to the lowest since October. Stocks were the outlier, with the FTSE 100 Index reaching the lowest since February as sterling’s gains hurt exporters. “Our take in general is that it should be seen as a favorable development,” said Lee Hardman, a foreign-exchange strategist at MUFG. “By holding an early election, Theresa May and the Conservative government will be able to strengthen their majority, and that will give her more power and influence during the Brexit negotiations.”

Sign up to receive the Brexit Bulletin in your inbox, and follow @Brexit on Twitter.

Britons are heading back to the polls.

Prime Minister Theresa May’s surprise decision to call a snap election June 8 means that a major vote will be held in the U.K. for a fourth consecutive year, subject to the approval of Parliament. The election had been scheduled to take place in 2020.

U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May walks into 10 Downing Street after announcing a general election. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg

Polls show May’s Conservative Party is more than 20 points ahead of the main opposition. If May can extend her narrow majority in Parliament, she will have secured a personal mandate and consolidated her party’s power.

Bookmaker Ladbrokes said the Tories are the 1/10 favorites to take the most seats. (A £10 stake would win £1.)

What does it mean for Brexit?

May said she was seeking an endorsement of her negotiating stance, and success would strengthen her hand when engaging with Europe.

While the election could delay the start of the talks, she might have concluded they weren’t likely to kick into gear anyway before the German election in September.

A larger majority would help May in several ways.

It would make it easier to pass legislation that would deliver a clean or “hard” Brexit by regaining control of borders and the budget, rather than safeguarding trade.

“There was not a majority in the Commons or Lords for a hard Brexit,” said Mujtaba Rahman of the Eurasia Group. “If, however, as we expect May secures a bigger majority, she will have a people’s mandate for a hard Brexit.”

At the same time, a larger majority would give her room to make concessions forced upon her by her EU counterparts and which the most vocal Brexit campaigners in her own party might not welcome.

“All else equal, that should lower the risk of a very disruptive Brexit as the government should be able to plot a less confrontational exit,” said Mike Amey of Pacific Investment Management.

Acting now rather than waiting until 2020 also means May will be running with the economy continuing to show resilience to the Brexit decision. The International Monetary Fund on Tuesday revised its forecast for growth this year to 2 percent from 1.5 percent. The risk is a slowdown could take root by 2020, muddying the campaign waters.

Early elections would also make it easier for May to agree to a transitional period, even if if that comes with costs such as having to keep paying into the EU budget. If elections had been held as scheduled in 2020 during such a transition, May could have been vulnerable to criticism that she hadn’t really delivered Brexit.

Indeed, Malcolm Barr of JPMorgan suggested a victory would give May the latitude to agree to an extension of Brexit talks beyond 2019 if necessary, making a smooth withdrawal more likely.

The risk is that the election emboldens those who regret voting for Brexit in last year’s referendum or increases support for independence in Scotland.

On the Markets

U.K. markets gave an early endorsement to May’s decision.

The pound jumped to its highest since Feb. 2 and may continue to strengthen, Bloomberg Gadfly said. U.K. gilts erased an advance that had taken 10-year yields to the lowest since October.

Stocks were the outlier, with the FTSE 100 Index reaching the lowest since February as sterling’s gains hurt exporters.

“Our take in general is that it should be seen as a favorable development,” said Lee Hardman, a foreign-exchange strategist at MUFG. “By holding an early election, Theresa May and the Conservative government will be able to strengthen their majority, and that will give her more power and influence during the Brexit negotiations.”

For more on Brexit follow Bloomberg on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, and see our full coverage at Bloomberg.com