Sonu Nigam Remains Firm On His Stand, Tweets He's Against The Use Of Loudspeaker & Not Religion
Sonu Nigam Remains Firm On His Stand, Tweets He's Against The Use Of Loudspeaker & Not Religion
Sonu Nigam Remains Firm On His Stand, Tweets He's Against The Use Of Loudspeaker & Not Religion Sonu Nigam and his tweets against Azaan and forced religiousness have blown up into a full-fledged controversy. A lot is being said and written about the singer and his tweets against Azaan. And now one day after the controversy, Sonu Nigam again took to Twitter to clarify his stand. To jog your memory a little, in a series of tweets, he wrote: God bless everyone. I'm not a Muslim and I have to be woken up by the Azaan in the morning. When will this forced religiousness end in India And by the way Mohammed did not have electricity when he made Islam.. Why do I have to have this cacophony after Edison? Without extending any apology, Sonu Nigam again took to Twitter to express his views. Clarifying that his statements were never against any religion but focused only on usage of loudspeakers, he wrote, Dear everyone. Your stand exposes your own IQ. I stand by my statement that loudspeakers should not be allowed in Mosques & Temples. Period And as soon as he put out his statement in form of a tweet, music director Wajid slammed him for his comments and said, @sonunigam that everyone has thr own point of view but that can be said without hurting others sentiments.hope u'll understand whr comng frm To which, Sonu replied, Dear @wajidkhan7 . If for once u stop being a Muslim & simply be a Citizen of India, u will see what everyone is truly talking about. Love https://t.co/AmX7qXHW13 Umm. This surely isn't ending anytime soon.

Sonu Nigam and his tweets against Azaan and forced religiousness have blown up into a full-fledged controversy. A lot is being said and written about the singer and his tweets against Azaan. And now one day after the controversy, Sonu Nigam again took to Twitter to clarify his stand.

To jog your memory a little, in a series of tweets, he wrote:

God bless everyone. I'm not a Muslim and I have to be woken up by the Azaan in the morning. When will this forced religiousness end in India — Sonu Nigam (@sonunigam) April 16, 2017

And by the way Mohammed did not have electricity when he made Islam.. Why do I have to have this cacophony after Edison? — Sonu Nigam (@sonunigam) April 17, 2017

Without extending any apology, Sonu Nigam again took to Twitter to express his views. Clarifying that his statements were never against any religion but focused only on usage of loudspeakers, he wrote,

Twitter

Dear everyone. Your stand exposes your own IQ. I stand by my statement that loudspeakers should not be allowed in Mosques & Temples. Period — Sonu Nigam (@sonunigam) April 18, 2017

And as soon as he put out his statement in form of a tweet, music director Wajid slammed him for his comments and said,

@sonunigam that everyone has thr own point of view but that can be said without hurting others sentiments.hope u'll understand whr comng frm — Wajid Khan (@wajidkhan7) April 17, 2017

To which, Sonu replied,

Dear @wajidkhan7. If for once u stop being a Muslim & simply be a Citizen of India, u will see what everyone is truly talking about. Love https://t.co/AmX7qXHW13 — Sonu Nigam (@sonunigam) April 18, 2017

Umm. This surely isn't ending anytime soon.

Don't Miss 6.1 K SHARES 58 K SHARES 17.9 K SHARES 27.1 K SHARES