Apple to launch three iPhones this autumn suggests report
Latest report: Apple is launching three iPhones this autumn


Apple is preparing to release three iPhones this autumn including a curved glass model in celebration of the iPhone's tenth anniversary, according to a new report.

This leak chimes with past rumours that Apple will release a high-end phone alongside two new iPhone 7 models.

Insiders believe the new model will not have a curved OLED display.

Instead, they say it will have curved glass on both the back and front as well as stainless steel materials and more advanced cameras.

Scroll down for video

The closer we get to Apple's annual press event, the more realistic the leaks seem to become. A new report suggets Apple is preparing to release three iPhones this autumn including a curved glass model in celebration of the iPhone's tenth anniversary

IPHONE 8 RUMOURS The most recent report suggests Apple is preparing to release three iPhones this autumn including a curved glass model in celebration of the iPhone's tenth anniversary. Several rumours have been circulating about the iPhone 8, and suggest the next device may have: - Dual-lens 3D camera - Augmented reality to generate real-time views of surroundings - Curved glass casing - Plastic OLED screen - Wireless charging - A folding element - New 5 inch (12.7 centimeter) and 5.8 inch (14.7 centimeter) model, which will have a wraparound OLED screen - 5.8 inch will be designed with the Touch ID finger print sensor 'under the glass and in the active display area' - A new 'pure white' model - Aluminum back will be replaced with two reinforced glass panes and a metal frame in the middle - Facial recognition

A report by Bloomberg's Mark Gurman suggests Apple has not settled on a final design but will most likely have subtly curved glass on both the back and front.

It is likely the frame will be made of stainless steel rather than the more expensive aluminium.

Insiders suggest the display will be similar in size to the iPhone 7 Plus but crammed onto a phone closer in size to the iPhone 7.

Gurman has one of the best track records for predicting new Apple devices.

Recent leaks suggested the firm would not be using a curved OLED display due to supply concerns.

The new phone might not be available until a few months after the typical autumn release, the report says.

New images claiming to be the 'iPhone 8' surfaced yesterday, revealing a device with a full-frame screen, rounded corners and nearly no bezels.

The renders have also suggested that Apple is going to hide a few components from plain sight - the fingerprint sensor, front camera, 3D depth sensors and top speaker.

Although the iPhone 7 sold out within a week of hitting the market, many saw it as nothing more than a refreshed iPhone 6 – which has put some pressure on Apple to impress its users this year.

And if all of the rumours that have been floating around the web are true, it seems the Cupertino company is pulling out all the stops for the iPhone 8 family.

The latest drawings were shared on twitter by KK Sneak Leaks, who found the designs lurking on the Chinese website Wiebo.

Although the authenticity of the drawings and renders cannot be confirmed, MacRumors noted that ‘KK has on several occasions shared accurate details about previous devices’.

The drawings present a handset that measures 137.54 mm tall by 67.54 mm wide, which is similar to the iPhone 7’s dimensions - 138.3 mm x 67.1 mm. Sticking with previous rumors, the drawings revealed the display will by 5.768 inches, which is nearly the entire front of the smartphone - and there is just one 4 mm bezel shown.

The drawings present a handset that measures 137.54 mm tall by 67.54 mm wide, which is similar to the iPhone 7’s dimensions - 138.3 mm x 67.1 mm. Sticking with previous rumors, the drawings revealed the display will by 5.768 inche

Situated at the top of the device, on the front, is a narrow earpiece that MacRumors noted consists of cameras and sensors, which could ‘include a front-facing camera, small microphone hole, ambient light sensor, proximity sensor, and the rumored 3D sensor’.

All of the features are also embedded in the display – making room for the highly anticipated edge-to-edge screen.

The earpiece appears as a small slit in the display area, but other sensors, like those for the camera, are nowhere to be found in the renders – which still keeps a mystery how Apple will work them into the design.

The iPhone 8 is said to be the best smartphone Apple has released, but because the firm is still working on ironing out the kinks, users may have to wait a little longer to get their hands on one.

The renders have also suggested that Apple is going to hide a few components from plain sight - the fingerprint sensor, front camera, 3D depth sensors and top speaker are hidden underneath the OLED display

The news regarding a later shipping date was revealed by Economic Daily News (via Digitimes), which suggested Apple has yet to iron out all of the kinks in its highly-anticipated smartphone, reported 9to5Mac.

'Technical issues related to the lamination process of curved OLED panels, and the adoption of a 3D sensing system may cause the delay of the new iPhone devices,' said the paper.

However, Apple has experienced manufacturing issues in the past, so have many other phone makers, but 9to5Mac has shared supporting evidence that suggests this time might be the real deal.

A report from March revealed that the Cupertino firm would not start mass production of the so-called iPhone 8 until September.

This is believed to be a result of Apple's custom fingerprint sensor that is set to replace the TouchID – the firm is believed to be building its own system and needed more time for manufacturing.

Rumours have suggested that Apple has passed over both the Synaptic's Natural ID touch fingerprint sensor and Qualcomm's Sense ID for the iPhone.

It is, however, going with its own technology for a fingerprint recognition solution – Authentec algorithm combined with Privaris glass identification technology.