How everyone else reacted to Theresa May's snap general election
How everyone else reacted to Theresa May's snap general election
And, as expected, people have thoughts. This tweet, sent at the time of the last General Election, aged well. pic.twitter.com/G6kRJ8YFrB  My sympathies to all the political journalists who are about to discover the deposit on their Summer holidays is non-refundable.  To sum it up, in April May calls June election.  I'll get my coat.  if you listen carefully you can hear half the country hastily typing "what do the Lib Dems think?" into Google  Just caught your boyfriend having a little look at the Lib Dem website  The real fight starts now pic.twitter.com/FfcpPs2KHk  @BBCBreaking  @theresa_may Corbyn was not available for comment pic.twitter.com/19EgyZTFco  Labour HQ right now #snapelection  #theresamay  pic.twitter.com/d1JtDHeLyr pic.twitter.com/YQ9haA5Dzv  : Paul Nuttall has made his statement thanking everyone for supporting him as Prime Minister and that he's calling a general election vote now  A reminder of Theresa May’s guide to what creates insecurity: Scottish referendum YES General Election NO  This is the informed, fantasy-free EU referendum we never had: and a final chance to avoid the folly of Hard Brexit. #GeneralElection  Guys, nobody in my tightly-controlled left-leaning social media bubble has said they’re going to vote Tory yet. I think we’re going to be OK  pic.twitter.com/RDxaA0Tpzv                     Keep scrolling for next article

Theresa May has called for a general election on 8 June, despite previously denying there would be an early election.

And, as expected, people have a few thoughts.

This tweet, sent at the time of the last General Election, aged well. pic.twitter.com/G6kRJ8YFrB — Felicity Morse (@FelicityMorse) April 18, 2017

My sympathies to all the political journalists who are about to discover the deposit on their Summer holidays is non-refundable. — Larry the Cat (@Number10cat) April 18, 2017

To sum it up, in April May calls June election.



I'll get my coat. — Brad (@B_4_Brad) April 18, 2017

The Lib Dems weren't left out:

if you listen carefully you can hear half the country hastily typing "what do the Lib Dems think?" into Google — Robin Edds (@robinedds) April 18, 2017

Just caught your boyfriend having a little look at the Lib Dem website — Liam Williams (@funnylad5) April 18, 2017

Nor were Jeremy Corbyn and Labour:

The real fight starts now pic.twitter.com/FfcpPs2KHk — Alberto Nardelli (@AlbertoNardelli) April 18, 2017

Or Ukip:

Paul Nuttall has made his statement thanking everyone for supporting him as Prime Minister and that he's calling a general election vote now — ❄Jack Monroe (@MxJackMonroe) April 18, 2017

Or the fact that May recently spoke out against a second Scottish independence referendum because of, erm, the instability it would cause:

A reminder of Theresa May’s guide to what creates insecurity:

Scottish referendum YES

General Election NO — David Schneider (@davidschneider) April 18, 2017

Let's leave on some silver linings, shall we?

This is the informed, fantasy-free EU referendum we never had: and a final chance to avoid the folly of Hard Brexit. #GeneralElection — Alain de Botton (@alaindebotton) April 18, 2017

Guys, nobody in my tightly-controlled left-leaning social media bubble has said they’re going to vote Tory yet. I think we’re going to be OK — Stuart Heritage (@stuheritage) April 18, 2017

To summarise:

More: All the times Theresa May said there would not be a snap election