Celebrate Tax Day 2017 with these deals and freebies
Celebrate Tax Day 2017 with these deals and freebies
Shares               The deadline for filing taxes has been extended this year to today, April 18, but that doesn't eliminate the stress. To alleviate the pain from meeting this dreaded deadline, some companies are offering deals that everyone can enjoy. Whether you are expecting a refund from Uncle Sam or not, Tax Day is now synonymous with deep discounts across the U.S. on products from food to flights. Check out the list below for some fun Tax Day deals and treats.  Tax Day deals: Food and drinks  Small pizzas will cost just $4.18 at lunch time, and for dinner the Italian restaurant chain offers cheese, margherita or pepperoni pizzas for just $10.40 each.  The popular bagel chain is offering a deal it claims is "better than a refund." Customers can buy the big bagel bundle for $10.40 -- a discount of $3.50.  The sandwich shop will offer its medium-size sandwiches for the same price as small ones on April, 18.  Enjoy a free medium sub when you buy a medium or large sub, chips and a drink, valid April, 18 to April, 20.  This Tax Day, get a free medium sub when you purchase a medium or large sub, chips and drink. pic.twitter.com/hbCyaTBHwW   Pick up a free birthday cake cookie on Tax Day -- no purchase necessary.  The famed flavored-crust pizza joint is offering anyone who buys a large one-topping pizza at full price the deal of getting a medium single-topping pizza for only 18 cents. Use the promo code TAXDAY, which is valid for online and carryout purchases April, 17 to April, 19 at participating locations.  The company is celebrating April 18 with its fourth annual "Chill Out" day by offer free shaved ice with the slogan, "No taxation without relaxation."  Get a free small "The Original" sandwich on Tuesday with the purchase of chips and a medium drink.  Enjoy $5 off your check or a free select draught on Tax Day at participating venues, where legal.  Nonfood deals  If you owe taxes to "the man" this year the airline is offering entry to its contest for a free return flight. By clicking "yes" on the company's online form, customers will be entered to win one of 1,000 flights. Entries are allowed once per day before April 25. For more rules and discounts, see tje website..  Relax with a free HydroMassage at participating gyms with coupon available online . Offer is good through April 22.  Fans can snag tickets for $4.18 and $10.40 with offer code TAXDAY when you purchase seats online before April 19. Shares                  Celebrate Tax Day 2017 with these deals and freebies   What's at stake in North Korea?   US Supreme Court stops execution of Arkansas death row inmate   UK PM calls for general election on June 8   Spicer defends White House policy on visitor logs   1 dead, 2 injured after military chopper crashes in southern Maryland   Houston couple complains of being booted from United flight   Dozens still missing in Sri Lankan garbage collapse; 30 dead   Dao video a 'watershed moment' for United, embattled CEO says   Man accused of stealing more than 100 cellphones at Coachella   Gorsuch dives into the fray at first Supreme Court arguments   Alligator surprises family on Easter morning   Dramatic ice rescue of 5 horses caught on video   Florida firefighters rescue horse trapped in mud pit   Up-close footage of Nebraska tornado   Elephant fights off crocodile   Wild goose chase for one unsuspecting cop in Indiana   Lava flows out of Mount Etna in Sicily   Creepy cobweb coats New Zealand soccer field   Stay-at-home dad leaves hilarious Post-its around house for his wife   Marine dad surprised with tea party photo shoot   Rooftop pool hangs 500 feet above downtown Houston   Space station supply ship at launch pad honors John Glenn   Disgruntled French steel workers turn to populist Le Pen   Australia scraps visa for skilled foreign workers   At least 26 dead as bus plunges into ravine in Philippines   Israel: No talks with Palestinian inmates on hunger strike   Crews search for hikers swept away in Grand Canyon creek   Benedict XVI has beer, party for 90th birthday at Vatican   Turkey's president Erdogan fulfills ambition, but at a cost   The Latest: Turkish leader gets call from Trump after vote   First woman to officially run Boston Marathon finishes race again at 70   Kenyans Kirui, Kiplagat win 121st Boston Marathon   Lena Dunham on Hannah's 'selfless' 'Girls' finale   Kim Kardashian West on Kanye's hospitalization: 'This is being a wife'   Netflix on the verge of hitting 100 million subscribers   How state trooper, DNA helped catch Mass. jogger's alleged killer   'Dancing with the Stars' recap: Normani Kordei brings the magic on Disney Night   Initial reactions to 'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2' are very positive   Campaign to name April the giraffe's calf launched

The deadline for filing taxes has been extended this year to today, April 18, but that doesn't eliminate the stress. To alleviate the pain from meeting this dreaded deadline, some companies are offering deals that everyone can enjoy.

Whether you are expecting a refund from Uncle Sam or not, Tax Day is now synonymous with deep discounts across the U.S. on products from food to flights.

Check out the list below for some fun Tax Day deals and treats.

Tax Day deals: Food and drinks

Bertucci's: Small pizzas will cost just $4.18 at lunch time, and for dinner the Italian restaurant chain offers cheese, margherita or pepperoni pizzas for just $10.40 each.

Bruegger's Bagels: The popular bagel chain is offering a deal it claims is "better than a refund." Customers can buy the big bagel bundle for $10.40 -- a discount of $3.50.

Capriotti's: The sandwich shop will offer its medium-size sandwiches for the same price as small ones on April, 18.

Firehouse Subs: Enjoy a free medium sub when you buy a medium or large sub, chips and a drink, valid April, 18 to April, 20.

This Tax Day, get a free medium sub when you purchase a medium or large sub, chips and drink. pic.twitter.com/hbCyaTBHwW — Firehouse Subs (@FirehouseSubs) April 14, 2017

Great American Cookies: Pick up a free birthday cake cookie on Tax Day -- no purchase necessary.

Hungry Howie's: The famed flavored-crust pizza joint is offering anyone who buys a large one-topping pizza at full price the deal of getting a medium single-topping pizza for only 18 cents. Use the promo code TAXDAY, which is valid for online and carryout purchases April, 17 to April, 19 at participating locations.

Kona Ice: The company is celebrating April 18 with its fourth annual "Chill Out" day by offer free shaved ice with the slogan, "No taxation without relaxation."

Schlotzsky's: Get a free small "The Original" sandwich on Tuesday with the purchase of chips and a medium drink.

World of Beer: Enjoy $5 off your check or a free select draught on Tax Day at participating venues, where legal.

Nonfood deals

Jet Blue: If you owe taxes to "the man" this year the airline is offering entry to its contest for a free return flight. By clicking "yes" on the company's online form, customers will be entered to win one of 1,000 flights. Entries are allowed once per day before April 25. For more rules and discounts, see tje website..

Planet Fitness: Relax with a free HydroMassage at participating gyms with coupon available online. Offer is good through April 22.

New York Yankees: Fans can snag tickets for $4.18 and $10.40 with offer code TAXDAY when you purchase seats online before April 19.