Watch NASA Launch A Rocket Into Space In A Live, 360-Degree Video Feed On April 19
Watch NASA Launch A Rocket Into Space In A Live, 360-Degree Video Feed On April 19
Watch NASA Launch A Rocket Into Space In A Live, 360-Degree Video Feed On April 19 NASA is ready to broadcast a rocket launch live tomorrow, but this time around it’ll be a little different. Instead of a camera mounted a safe distance away, to give us a scenic view of the liftoff, we’ll be watching the launch from right on the launch pad. NASA is launching the Orbital Cygnus spacecraft tomorrow for a resupply mission to the International Space Station. The space agency is planning to livestream the takeoff through a 360-degree camera right on the launch pad. NASA has placed a four fisheye-lens cameras on the pad, about 300 feet away from the rocket. A nearby computer encased in a blast-proof box will stitch the footage together on the fly, and broadcast in near-real time. Users will be able to look around from the launch pad, just by panning across the screen with the cursor or VR headset. The event will commence on NASA’s YouTube channel at 11 am EDT (8:30 pm IST), 10 minutes before the Atlas V rocket lifts off. Keep in mind though, that the stream will be about a minute delayed, as the computer would require time to edit the footage together. We are GO for LIVE 360! ULA & @OrbitalATK with @NASA , bring you #AtlasV  #OA7 tomorrow at 11amET! https://t.co/HyNJM0wYI5  pic.twitter.com/MACcL7Eyv3

NASA is ready to broadcast a rocket launch live tomorrow, but this time around it’ll be a little different. Instead of a camera mounted a safe distance away, to give us a scenic view of the liftoff, we’ll be watching the launch from right on the launch pad.

NASA

NASA is launching the Orbital Cygnus spacecraft tomorrow for a resupply mission to the International Space Station. The space agency is planning to livestream the takeoff through a 360-degree camera right on the launch pad.

NASA has placed a four fisheye-lens cameras on the pad, about 300 feet away from the rocket. A nearby computer encased in a blast-proof box will stitch the footage together on the fly, and broadcast in near-real time. Users will be able to look around from the launch pad, just by panning across the screen with the cursor or VR headset.

The event will commence on NASA’s YouTube channel at 11 am EDT (8:30 pm IST), 10 minutes before the Atlas V rocket lifts off. Keep in mind though, that the stream will be about a minute delayed, as the computer would require time to edit the footage together.