Did you lose your job when BHS went into administration?

The controversial collapse of the BHS department store chain last April, led to the loss of 11,000 jobs and left a pension deficit assessed at £571m . It was the biggest high street failure since Woolworths went out of business in 2008. According to research by the Guardian, just 52 of BHS’s 164 stores have found new tenants or have deals on the table ahead of this week’s anniversary . BHS workers are still likely to suffer cuts to their pension benefits. The Pensions Regulator estimates that workers will on average receive around 88% of the value of their original benefits in a new pension scheme created by the settlement. This is a better outcome than if the BHS pension scheme had entered the Pension Protection Fund, a lifeboat for failed pension schemes, where workers would have received an estimated 75% to 79%. The 88-year-old retailer failed when it ran out of money a year after it was sold by Sir Philip Green to the serial bankrupt Dominic Chappell for £1. If you were affected by the store’s collapse, we’d like you to share your experience with us. You can fill in the form – anonymously, if you prefer – and we’ll use a selection of responses in our reporting.  BHS

The collapse of BHS led to thousands of job losses, and a huge pension deficit. If you were affected, we’d like you to share your experience with us

The controversial collapse of the BHS department store chain last April, led to the loss of 11,000 jobs and left a pension deficit assessed at £571m. It was the biggest high street failure since Woolworths went out of business in 2008.

According to research by the Guardian, just 52 of BHS’s 164 stores have found new tenants or have deals on the table ahead of this week’s anniversary.



BHS workers are still likely to suffer cuts to their pension benefits. The Pensions Regulator estimates that workers will on average receive around 88% of the value of their original benefits in a new pension scheme created by the settlement. This is a better outcome than if the BHS pension scheme had entered the Pension Protection Fund, a lifeboat for failed pension schemes, where workers would have received an estimated 75% to 79%.

The 88-year-old retailer failed when it ran out of money a year after it was sold by Sir Philip Green to the serial bankrupt Dominic Chappell for £1.

If you were affected by the store’s collapse, we’d like you to share your experience with us.

You can fill in the form – anonymously, if you prefer – and we’ll use a selection of responses in our reporting.

Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions. We will do our best to keep you anonymous.