Flights, massages and other freebies to enjoy on Tax Day

The deadline for filing your tax return and cutting a check to Uncle Sam is now hours away. Americans got a little extra time to work on their returns this year thanks to Emancipation Day, a holiday in the District that celebrates the anniversary of the abolition of slavery . But even with the minor extension, millions of taxpayers may still be scrambling to crunch the numbers. To help alleviate some of that stress, many companies are offering free stuff today with some deals lasting through the end of the month. This year’s Tax Day freebies include the usual assortment of sweets, side dishes and other discounts. Taxpayers can also receive massages, shred old paperwork and potentially snag a free flight. Deal websites such as DealNews and BeFrugal are tracking some of the promotions. Here are some of the highlights: JetBlue is running a sweepstakes to give away 1,000 one-way flights now until April 25 to people who owe or owed taxes on their 2016 returns. (Although the airline also says in the rules that it is “under no obligation” to verify that people actually owed taxes.) Winners have a relatively tight window for using the credits, though, since the certificates are valid for travel between May 1 and June 15, 2017. To enter, fill out an online form providing your name, email and birthday. Planet Fitness is offering free hydromassages, where traveling water jets inside a bed can help relax your muscles. You don’t need to be a member. Print a coupon from their website and show it at the front desk by April 22. Office Depot is letting people shred up to five pounds of old documents through April 29. Print a coupon and take it to an Office Depot or Office Max location. At Staples , you can shred up to two pounds of paperwork through April 22. Great American Cookies is offering free cookies to people who come in Tuesday at participating stores .  Kona Ice is giving away free tropical shaved ice for its “National Chill Out Day” promotion. Get free queso and chips at California Tortilla on any order with the code word “ tax crunch .” . Bruegger’s Bagels is offering 13 bagels and two tubs of cream cheese for $10.40 through Wednesday.  Hot Dog on a Stick is offering a free turkey dog at participating locations, with no minimum purchase required. Noodles & Company is offering $4 off any $10 order placed online with the code “TAXDAY17.” 8 reasons you could end up with a surprise tax bill this year Torn between saving and spending your tax refund? Here’s how you can do both Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends meet How I regularly book round-trip international flights for less than $400



A parade participant rides a penny-farthing bicycle while dressed as Uncle Sam in downtown New Port Richey, Fla. (Andres Veiva/Tampa Bay Times via AP)

The deadline for filing your tax return and cutting a check to Uncle Sam is now hours away.

Americans got a little extra time to work on their returns this year thanks to Emancipation Day, a holiday in the District that celebrates the anniversary of the abolition of slavery. But even with the minor extension, millions of taxpayers may still be scrambling to crunch the numbers.

To help alleviate some of that stress, many companies are offering free stuff today with some deals lasting through the end of the month.

This year’s Tax Day freebies include the usual assortment of sweets, side dishes and other discounts. Taxpayers can also receive massages, shred old paperwork and potentially snag a free flight.

Deal websites such as DealNews and BeFrugal are tracking some of the promotions. Here are some of the highlights:

Book a flight. JetBlue is running a sweepstakes to give away 1,000 one-way flights now until April 25 to people who owe or owed taxes on their 2016 returns. (Although the airline also says in the rules that it is “under no obligation” to verify that people actually owed taxes.) Winners have a relatively tight window for using the credits, though, since the certificates are valid for travel between May 1 and June 15, 2017. To enter, fill out an online form providing your name, email and birthday.

Get a massage. Planet Fitness is offering free hydromassages, where traveling water jets inside a bed can help relax your muscles. You don’t need to be a member. Print a coupon from their website and show it at the front desk by April 22.

Shred old papers. Office Depot is letting people shred up to five pounds of old documents through April 29. Print a coupon and take it to an Office Depot or Office Max location. At Staples, you can shred up to two pounds of paperwork through April 22.

Grab a cookie. Great American Cookies is offering free cookies to people who come in Tuesday at participating stores.

Cool down with shaved ice. Kona Ice is giving away free tropical shaved ice for its “National Chill Out Day” promotion.

Munch on chips. Get free queso and chips at California Tortilla on any order with the code word “tax crunch.”

Bagels for breakfast. Bruegger’s Bagels is offering 13 bagels and two tubs of cream cheese for $10.40 through Wednesday.

Hot dogs for lunch. Hot Dog on a Stick is offering a free turkey dog at participating locations, with no minimum purchase required.

Noodles for dinner. Noodles & Company is offering $4 off any $10 order placed online with the code “TAXDAY17.”

Read more:

8 reasons you could end up with a surprise tax bill this year

Torn between saving and spending your tax refund? Here’s how you can do both

Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends meet

How I regularly book round-trip international flights for less than $400