Liquor sales haven't dropped where weed is legal, and people still go out, new analysis says
Liquor sales haven't dropped where weed is legal, and people still go out, new analysis says
Just because toking up is legal in some states, doesn't mean that people aren't still enjoying their booze. When legalization started to push its way through, some people were a little worried, especially those who made their living selling alcohol. Would everyone start to smoke weed and ditch one of America's favored pastimes: getting loaded off booze? SEE ALSO: Dude smokes weed with his grandma for the first time, and it's adorable Given how hush-hush people have been in the past about consuming cannabis, nobody could say for sure how many would partake, and if anything would change post-legalization. Turns out, people like getting high, and they also like getting drunk. Who knew? Foursquare a location intelligence company , analyzed Foursquare City Guide and Foursqaure Swarm data in states where cannabis was recently legalized to get a better picture of who's visiting weed shops. Foursquare then drilled down into its Oregon data to see what happened to liquor store visits a year after the Pacific Wonderland legalized weed sales in October 2015. (The state legalized weed in July, but it took a few months to iron out sales). Fourquare's analysis wasn't groundbreaking: From its data we learn that liquor sales haven't slumped in Oregon  and those buying legal weed elsewhere range in age. Foursquare didn't initially provide the sample size of its data, but its findings line up with recent liquor store statistics and other legal weed analyses. People still buy alcohol in stores, but not as much as in other states Foursquare found that liquor store sales grew 5 to 10 percent in Oregon, compared to the 12-month period before weed sales were legalized. However, that number is twice as large when the U.S. is examined as a whole. So yes, Oregonians are buying more alcohol, even after weed was legalized, but they aren't buying as much as people in other states. Image: foursquare But while liquor store visits grew at a slower rate than other states, nightlife stayed the same. Foursquare analyzed visits to bars, lounges, clubs, and breweries across the state and found that they experienced a 3 percent growth year-over-year, which is directly on par with the national average. So what does that mean? Well, people in Oregon may be smoking more weed at home than drinking beers, but they're still going out and drinking just as often. Liquor sales reports from Oregon for 2015 and 2016 support Foursquare's findings. Similar studies in Colorado in 2015 and 2017 also concur: Weed sales don't curb alcohol sales. However, another study in 2016 suggested that craft beer sales in states where weed is legal is underperforming. So who's smoking weed? Everyone, duh. Profiling visits from Foursquare City Guide and Foursqaure Swarm in Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, and Washington to legal pot shops, the company was able to break down some visitor demographics. As you could probably guess, it's highly skewed towards millennials, though that's not surprising, considering the data was collected through an app. Additionally, the gender breakdown was fairly even, though slightly higher with 52 percent male compared to 48 percent female. Image: foursquare Unsurprisingly, people who visited dispensaries also enjoyed ramen, dumplings, craft beer, IPAs, pale ales, and fancy cocktails. The places they often visited were ski resorts, climbing gyms, bike shops, and stadiums. 420 is a big win for all Regardless of how cannabis users are consuming other goods, 420 (April 20) shows a major uptick in foot traffic across the board. People are more likely to go to dispensaries, liquor stores, fast food restaurants, pizza places, and nightlife spots on 420. Image: foursquare While Foursquare's findings are interesting, they're not perfect. The data is based off of its users, which may not mirror the average population. And as you can expect, not everyone is really willing to check in on its app to a liquor store or a pot shop. To fix the checkin issue, the data was collected using checkins as well as passive visits to stores. Yes, Foursquare knows when you visit a store, even if you don't check in to the location if you opt-in to location sharing always being turned on. Foursquare notes that its data "is always anonymized, aggregated and normalized against U.S. Census data," and that data for this study was only taken from people 21 and over. WATCH: Colorado's Farm-to-Table Marijuana

Just because toking up is legal in some states, doesn't mean that people aren't still enjoying their booze.

When legalization started to push its way through, some people were a little worried, especially those who made their living selling alcohol. Would everyone start to smoke weed and ditch one of America's favored pastimes: getting loaded off booze?

Given how hush-hush people have been in the past about consuming cannabis, nobody could say for sure how many would partake, and if anything would change post-legalization. Turns out, people like getting high, and they also like getting drunk. Who knew?

Foursquare a location intelligence company, analyzed Foursquare City Guide and Foursqaure Swarm data in states where cannabis was recently legalized to get a better picture of who's visiting weed shops. Foursquare then drilled down into its Oregon data to see what happened to liquor store visits a year after the Pacific Wonderland legalized weed sales in October 2015. (The state legalized weed in July, but it took a few months to iron out sales).

Fourquare's analysis wasn't groundbreaking: From its data we learn that liquor sales haven't slumped in Oregon and those buying legal weed elsewhere range in age. Foursquare didn't initially provide the sample size of its data, but its findings line up with recent liquor store statistics and other legal weed analyses.

People still buy alcohol in stores, but not as much as in other states

Foursquare found that liquor store sales grew 5 to 10 percent in Oregon, compared to the 12-month period before weed sales were legalized. However, that number is twice as large when the U.S. is examined as a whole. So yes, Oregonians are buying more alcohol, even after weed was legalized, but they aren't buying as much as people in other states.

But while liquor store visits grew at a slower rate than other states, nightlife stayed the same. Foursquare analyzed visits to bars, lounges, clubs, and breweries across the state and found that they experienced a 3 percent growth year-over-year, which is directly on par with the national average.

So what does that mean? Well, people in Oregon may be smoking more weed at home than drinking beers, but they're still going out and drinking just as often.

Liquor sales reports from Oregon for 2015 and 2016 support Foursquare's findings. Similar studies in Colorado in 2015 and 2017 also concur: Weed sales don't curb alcohol sales. However, another study in 2016 suggested that craft beer sales in states where weed is legal is underperforming.

So who's smoking weed?

Everyone, duh. Profiling visits from Foursquare City Guide and Foursqaure Swarm in Alaska, Colorado, Oregon, and Washington to legal pot shops, the company was able to break down some visitor demographics.

As you could probably guess, it's highly skewed towards millennials, though that's not surprising, considering the data was collected through an app.

Additionally, the gender breakdown was fairly even, though slightly higher with 52 percent male compared to 48 percent female.

Unsurprisingly, people who visited dispensaries also enjoyed ramen, dumplings, craft beer, IPAs, pale ales, and fancy cocktails. The places they often visited were ski resorts, climbing gyms, bike shops, and stadiums.

420 is a big win for all

Regardless of how cannabis users are consuming other goods, 420 (April 20) shows a major uptick in foot traffic across the board. People are more likely to go to dispensaries, liquor stores, fast food restaurants, pizza places, and nightlife spots on 420.

While Foursquare's findings are interesting, they're not perfect. The data is based off of its users, which may not mirror the average population. And as you can expect, not everyone is really willing to check in on its app to a liquor store or a pot shop.

To fix the checkin issue, the data was collected using checkins as well as passive visits to stores. Yes, Foursquare knows when you visit a store, even if you don't check in to the location if you opt-in to location sharing always being turned on.

Foursquare notes that its data "is always anonymized, aggregated and normalized against U.S. Census data," and that data for this study was only taken from people 21 and over.