Danny Dyer's Cockney accent? It's more like The Only Way Is Essex, says co-star June Brown
Danny Dyer's Cockney accent? It's more like The Only Way Is Essex, says co-star June Brown
astEnders no longer features real Cockney accents, according to June Brown, with even Danny Dyer using “slovenly” Essex vowels. Brown has played Dot in the BBC soap for more than 30 years, and based her own accent on a great-aunt who spoke what she calls “the Queen’s Cockney”. But she said of her younger co-stars: “Slovenly speech, that’s what it is. I wouldn’t call it Cockney, no. “They can’t help it, that’s how they speak. It’s much more The Only Way Is Essex. That has become the Cockney of the times." anny Dyer might think he talks like a Cockney geezer, but Brown thinks otherwise. "People speak differently now. It’s lazy speech.” Brown, 90, was speaking in a Radio 4 documentary, The Lost Cockney Voice, to be broadcast next week. The disappearance of the old Cockney accent has been blamed on east Londoners moving out to Essex and Kent, and the emergence of ‘Estuary English’. According to tradition, true Cockneys must be born within earshot of the bells of St Mary-le-Bow Church, Cheapside. Cole Moreton, who made the documentary, was inspired by memories of his grandmother, Gladys. riting in Radio Times , he said: “Gladys sounded half like a Cockney and half like the Queen. Women like her grew up during and after wartime in a vibrant East End culture but with the wireless as the source of news, entertainment and authority - and everyone on it spoke the Queen’s English, with accents that sound comically posh to us now. “Nan and her mates developed this curious, one-generation voice that has almost vanished, because they’ve almost passed away and their kids had other influences, like the telly.” e added: “We think we’re living in a society that’s grown-up enough to treat us all fairly however we speak - regional accents are more popular now, everyone sounds a bit more common than they used to - but it’s not true. “There’s still a secret code, it has just changed a little to fit in with the times. If you don’t sound right, you’re still excluded.”

EastEnders no longer features real Cockney accents, according to June Brown, with even Danny Dyer using “slovenly” Essex vowels.

Brown has played Dot in the BBC soap for more than 30 years, and based her own accent on a great-aunt who spoke what she calls “the Queen’s Cockney”.

But she said of her younger co-stars: “Slovenly speech, that’s what it is. I wouldn’t call it Cockney, no.