Theresa May, Turkey, Arkansas: Your Tuesday Briefing
Theresa May, Turkey, Arkansas: Your Tuesday Briefing
President Trump’s promise to overhaul the tax code is in serious jeopardy, and his refusal to release his tax returns is emerging as a central hurdle. Democrats have pledged not to cooperate on a new plan unless they know how it might benefit the president and his family, and a growing number of Republicans are also calling for him to share his tax forms. On the brighter side, Mr. Trump presided over his first White House Easter Egg Roll on Monday. Prime Minister Theresa May said today that she would call an early election , placing a bet that voters would give her a stronger mandate as her government negotiates Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union. Advertisement The election would occur on June 8. Mrs. May took power in July; her predecessor, David Cameron, resigned after the “Brexit” referendum. Supporters of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey like the idea of a strong leader standing against external aggression. In a phone call on Monday, President Trump congratulated Mr. Erdogan after his victory in a referendum that expands the power of the presidency, but whose results the opposition has contested. Advertisement The vote makes it less likely that Turkey will be able to join the European Union . A man who posted a video to Facebook that showed him shooting dead a random passer-by in Cleveland is being sought by the authorities. The social media network, which is grappling with its role in policing content, is facing widespread criticism for having taken more than two hours to remove the video. For the first time in more than a year, a full Supreme Court heard arguments on Monday. Justice Neil Gorsuch, his confirmation fight behind him, had many questions. The state was forced to abandon its plan to put an inmate to death after a pair of rulings, one by the U.S. Supreme Court. The first round of the French presidential election is on Sunday, and critics are worried that Russia is churning out “fake news” and meddling with the process just as it did in the U.S. last year. On today’s show, our Supreme Court correspondent discusses Justice Neil Gorsuch’s first day on the job. Listen to ‘The Daily’ LISTEN ON YOUR PODCASTS APP LISTEN ON RADIOPUBLIC Listen on a computer , an iOS device or an Android device . Business is expected to sign an executive order today aimed at making it harder for technology companies to recruit low-wage workers from abroad . Advertisement by Steven Ballmer, the former chief executive of Microsoft, lets you track how the government spends tax dollars . didn’t have enough problems: Low birthrates could weaken economic growth in the future. were up on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets . Market Snapshot View Full Overview Smarter Living could be put in a pill and prescribed, it would be hailed as an almost miraculous cure . and nutrition? You’re not alone . : If you can make a ragù, you can make this chicken curry . Noteworthy In today’s 360 video, get a close look at how a dung beetle in Kenya prepares a meal. Dinner With a Dung Beetle In this 360° video, get an up-close look at how a dung beetle in Laikipia, Kenya, prepares a meal.      Read about how the other side thinks : From Ann Coulter’s critical take on President Trump’s actions in Syria to Masha Gessen on similarities between the U.S. and Russian leaders. At the time of the musician’s death after an opioid overdose last year, his home contained “a sizable amount” of painkillers for which he didn’t have prescriptions, according to court documents . Advertisement In 1967, a runner registered as K. V. Switzer ran the all-male race, becoming the first woman to complete it as an official entrant. On Monday, Kathrine Switzer ran it again . A new book of paintings by former President George W. Bush reveals an adept artist who is doing penance for the Iraq War, our critic writes. And “Shattered,” an account of the 2016 election, depicts Hillary Clinton’s campaign as dysfunctional and outlines its many mistakes. Our chief book critic reviewed it. “Groundhog Day” adapts a beloved movie to the musical stage with feverish imagination — and a magnetic Andy Karl shooing away the shadow of Bill Murray, our theater critic writes . On his former show, Stephen Colbert portrayed a right-wing talk show host. On Monday’s “Late Show,” he got into character imitating another : Alex Jones. Back Story When the U.S. recently sent a team of warships to the Korean Peninsula, we wondered about the namesake of the aircraft carrier leading the group — the Carl Vinson — and the broader question of how Navy ships are named. Carl Vinson was a long-serving Georgia congressman whose zeal for military expansion led him to be called the “Father of the Two-Ocean Navy.” Launched in 1980, a year before Mr. Vinson’s death, the carrier was one of the first major Navy ships to have been named after a living person since the 1800s . In 1862, Congress specified that ships, depending on their class, should be named after states, rivers or “principal cities and towns.” But naval expansion soon exhausted geographical names. Advertisement Some names have been divisive. The Clinton administration took heat for naming a destroyer after a British citizen, Winston Churchill, and traditionalists objected to plans to name a ship after Harvey Milk , the slain gay rights leader. Mr. Vinson was a segregationist. And sometimes the name just doesn’t fit. A cargo ship was named after the civil rights activist Cesar Chavez. A proponent of nonviolence, he once said his time in the Navy had been “the two worst years of my life.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Listen on a computer, an iOS device or an Android device.

Business

• President Trump is expected to sign an executive order today aimed at making it harder for technology companies to recruit low-wage workers from abroad.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• A pet project by Steven Ballmer, the former chief executive of Microsoft, lets you track how the government spends tax dollars.

• As if southern Europe didn’t have enough problems: Low birthrates could weaken economic growth in the future.

• U.S. stocks were up on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

• If the effects of exercise could be put in a pill and prescribed, it would be hailed as an almost miraculous cure.

• Confused about quinoa and nutrition? You’re not alone.

• Recipe of the day: If you can make a ragù, you can make this chicken curry.

Noteworthy

• Dinner with a dung beetle.

In today’s 360 video, get a close look at how a dung beetle in Kenya prepares a meal.

Video

• Partisan writing you shouldn’t miss.

Read about how the other side thinks: From Ann Coulter’s critical take on President Trump’s actions in Syria to Masha Gessen on similarities between the U.S. and Russian leaders.

• How Prince concealed his addiction.

At the time of the musician’s death after an opioid overdose last year, his home contained “a sizable amount” of painkillers for which he didn’t have prescriptions, according to court documents.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

• A Boston Marathon record.

In 1967, a runner registered as K. V. Switzer ran the all-male race, becoming the first woman to complete it as an official entrant. On Monday, Kathrine Switzer ran it again.

Photo

• Politicians we have known.

A new book of paintings by former President George W. Bush reveals an adept artist who is doing penance for the Iraq War, our critic writes.

And “Shattered,” an account of the 2016 election, depicts Hillary Clinton’s campaign as dysfunctional and outlines its many mistakes. Our chief book critic reviewed it.

• A star is born (and born and born).

“Groundhog Day” adapts a beloved movie to the musical stage with feverish imagination — and a magnetic Andy Karl shooing away the shadow of Bill Murray, our theater critic writes.

• Best of late-night TV.

On his former show, Stephen Colbert portrayed a right-wing talk show host. On Monday’s “Late Show,” he got into character imitating another: Alex Jones.

Back Story

When the U.S. recently sent a team of warships to the Korean Peninsula, we wondered about the namesake of the aircraft carrier leading the group — the Carl Vinson — and the broader question of how Navy ships are named.

Carl Vinson was a long-serving Georgia congressman whose zeal for military expansion led him to be called the “Father of the Two-Ocean Navy.” Launched in 1980, a year before Mr. Vinson’s death, the carrier was one of the first major Navy ships to have been named after a living person since the 1800s.

Photo

In 1862, Congress specified that ships, depending on their class, should be named after states, rivers or “principal cities and towns.” But naval expansion soon exhausted geographical names.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some names have been divisive. The Clinton administration took heat for naming a destroyer after a British citizen, Winston Churchill, and traditionalists objected to plans to name a ship after Harvey Milk, the slain gay rights leader. Mr. Vinson was a segregationist.

And sometimes the name just doesn’t fit. A cargo ship was named after the civil rights activist Cesar Chavez. A proponent of nonviolence, he once said his time in the Navy had been “the two worst years of my life.”

Charles McDermid contributed reporting.

_____

Photographs may appear out of order for some readers. Viewing this version of the briefing should help.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.