Trump Signals 'America First,' Silicon Valley Second With Work Visa Reform
Trump Signals 'America First,' Silicon Valley Second With Work Visa Reform
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Matt Drange       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. President Donald Trump leaves the White House Tuesday on his way to sign an executive order aimed at reforming the country's work visa program. (Photo by Carolyn Kaster / Associated Press) President Donald Trump took the first formal step Tuesday to make good on his promise to reform the H-1B work visa program, urging changes that could curb what critics say is rampant misuse of a system designed to attract foreign workers to meet a growing demand in Silicon Valley for software engineers. Dubbed "Buy American, Hire American," Trump's order tasks federal agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, the State Department and the Department of Labor, to draw up reforms "in order to promote the proper functioning of the H-1B visa program" and help "ensure that H-1B visas are awarded to the most-skilled or highest-paid" employees. In recent years, the bulk of the more than 85,000 H-1B visas awarded by the government have gone to outsourcing firms that pay relatively low wages for positions most would not consider "skilled" in the same way engineers are. Critics and allies of Silicon Valley alike say that an updated criteria for what constitutes skilled labor is long overdue. Doing so could weed out outsourcing firms while preserving visas as a means to bring entrepreneurs and engineers to Silicon Valley, immigration lawyers who work with tech firms say. The H-1B program allows companies to sponsor foreign employees in high-skilled positions for up to six years. At a coordinated event at Snap-On Tools in Kenosha, Wisconsin on Tuesday, Trump ended a fiery speech by saying "God bless the American worker." Despite the rhetoric, any substantive changes to work visa programs such as H-1B would likely need to come in the form of new legislation. Unshackled Ventures, a VC firm that provides legal services to immigrant entrepreneurs of its portfolio companies, praised the order Tuesday afternoon, saying it was a good "first step" in the right direction. "It is no secret, the immigrant community has been one of the largest creators of American jobs in our history, but our current immigration policies aren’t living up to their promises," Unshackled cofounder Manan Mehta said in a written statement. "We support immigration policies that create jobs - rather than outsource them. The H-1B is designed for the highest skilled worker, but when 13 of the top 15 H-1B visa filers are global outsourcing companies, who pay lower than market rate wages, the H–1B program’s purpose is in jeopardy." While Trump has made American workers a fixture of his campaign and now his presidency, he's far from the first to suggest reforms to the H-1B program. Several bills have been floated in Congress for years, the latest of which is sponsored by both Democratic and Republican Senators and would strengthen existing requirements for companies to make a "good faith" effort to hire Americans before being approved for one of the limited H-1B visas. Trump's order comes at a tumultuous time for immigrants who work in tech. The president's relationship with Silicon Valley has been marked by tension over Trump's anti-immigration stance, which goes against tech's collective belief in a global economy that draws entrepreneurs--and the money and jobs they sometimes create--from around the world. The opposing views may have been a factor during the recent H-1B application window, which opened earlier this month. For the first time in years, the number of H-1B applications dropped to under 200,000, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services said Monday, a 15 percent drop from last year. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

President Donald Trump took the first formal step Tuesday to make good on his promise to reform the H-1B work visa program, urging changes that could curb what critics say is rampant misuse of a system designed to attract foreign workers to meet a growing demand in Silicon Valley for software engineers.

Dubbed "Buy American, Hire American," Trump's order tasks federal agencies, including the Department of Homeland Security, the State Department and the Department of Labor, to draw up reforms "in order to promote the proper functioning of the H-1B visa program" and help "ensure that H-1B visas are awarded to the most-skilled or highest-paid" employees. In recent years, the bulk of the more than 85,000 H-1B visas awarded by the government have gone to outsourcing firms that pay relatively low wages for positions most would not consider "skilled" in the same way engineers are.

Critics and allies of Silicon Valley alike say that an updated criteria for what constitutes skilled labor is long overdue. Doing so could weed out outsourcing firms while preserving visas as a means to bring entrepreneurs and engineers to Silicon Valley, immigration lawyers who work with tech firms say. The H-1B program allows companies to sponsor foreign employees in high-skilled positions for up to six years.

At a coordinated event at Snap-On Tools in Kenosha, Wisconsin on Tuesday, Trump ended a fiery speech by saying "God bless the American worker." Despite the rhetoric, any substantive changes to work visa programs such as H-1B would likely need to come in the form of new legislation.

Unshackled Ventures, a VC firm that provides legal services to immigrant entrepreneurs of its portfolio companies, praised the order Tuesday afternoon, saying it was a good "first step" in the right direction. "It is no secret, the immigrant community has been one of the largest creators of American jobs in our history, but our current immigration policies aren’t living up to their promises," Unshackled cofounder Manan Mehta said in a written statement. "We support immigration policies that create jobs - rather than outsource them. The H-1B is designed for the highest skilled worker, but when 13 of the top 15 H-1B visa filers are global outsourcing companies, who pay lower than market rate wages, the H–1B program’s purpose is in jeopardy."

While Trump has made American workers a fixture of his campaign and now his presidency, he's far from the first to suggest reforms to the H-1B program. Several bills have been floated in Congress for years, the latest of which is sponsored by both Democratic and Republican Senators and would strengthen existing requirements for companies to make a "good faith" effort to hire Americans before being approved for one of the limited H-1B visas.

Trump's order comes at a tumultuous time for immigrants who work in tech. The president's relationship with Silicon Valley has been marked by tension over Trump's anti-immigration stance, which goes against tech's collective belief in a global economy that draws entrepreneurs--and the money and jobs they sometimes create--from around the world. The opposing views may have been a factor during the recent H-1B application window, which opened earlier this month. For the first time in years, the number of H-1B applications dropped to under 200,000, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services said Monday, a 15 percent drop from last year.

Read more:

Trump's Proposed Shakeup Of Work-Visa Program Could Leave Silicon Valley Scrambling

Why Silicon Valley Is So Nervous About H-1B Reform

Got a story tip? Click here for details on how to send Matt documents anonymously via SecureDrop. He can also be reached via Signal or WhatsApp. Email him at mdrange[at]forbes.com.