1 killed, 2 hurt in shooting in downtown Fresno, California
1 killed, 2 hurt in shooting in downtown Fresno, California
Shares                Emergency officials say a shooting has killed one person and injured two others in downtown Fresno. Dan Lynch of Fresno County Emergency Medical Services says the two wounded by gunfire have been transported to hospitals. Fresno city spokesman Mark Standriff says county offices are on lockdown, and people have been urged to shelter in place. Few other details were immediately known. Ashlee Wolf of Catholic Charities told the Fresno Bee newspaper ( http://bit.ly/2oK6Vzc ) that the shooting happened at a bus stop near the charity. Wolf says the charity doesn't believe the shooter was tied to Catholic Charities. She says the charity is working with police to provide information. Shares                  1 killed, 2 hurt in shooting in downtown Fresno, California   Trump's history of using foreign workers in his business ventures   US intercepts 2 Russian bombers off Alaska coast   Suspect in custody after sheriff's deputy shot dead in Oklahoma   United CEO says no one will be fired for dragging incident   Newtown schools ask Trump to reject conspiracy theorists   NCAA returns events to NC after state rolls back LGBT law   Disgruntled French steelworkers turn to populist Le Pen   Trump to sign executive order targeting foreign work visas   Some vets can go to CVS 'MinuteClinics' for minor illnesses   All lanes reopened after major highway buckled, broke apart   Tax refund vacations: 7 exotic trips   Luxurious New York City mansion on the market for $84.5 million   Starbucks calls shifting-color drink a Unicorn Frappuccino   Clock tower over the Trump hotel quietly reopens for tours   Sienna Miller on co-parenting with her ex: 'We do bedtime every day'   Stay-at-home dad leaves hilarious Post-its around house for his wife   Marine dad surprised with tea party photo shoot   Flint mayor says water switch 'too risky' after lead crisis   Inmate may be freed after DNA raises doubts in Ohio slaying   Archaeologists find 1,000 statues in tomb in Egypt's Luxor   John Glenn honored with launch of space station supply ship   Passengers scream as bus plunges in Philippines, killing 29   Israel: No talks with Palestinian inmates on hunger strike   Crews search for hikers swept away in Grand Canyon creek   Comic on Trump, racism and his rise to fame   A look at white nationalism in America   'The Young Turks' online news host attempting a 'hostile takeover' of Democratic Party   US defense chief says N. Korea 'recklessly tried to provoke'   China defends N. Korea trade after its trucks haul missiles   What's at stake in North Korea?   '13 Reasons Why' faces backlash from suicide prevention advocacy groups   Kendall Jenner: I'm more Jenner than Kardashian   Navy: Officer hazed sailors, called 1 'Charlie Brown'   Queens jogger murder suspect allegedly told police 'I strangled her'   Lena Dunham on Hannah's 'selfless' 'Girls' finale   Erika Jayne jokes that everyone is 'very nice' on 'DWTS' compared with 'Real Housewives'   Jennifer Hudson on who influenced her new Netflix movie role

Emergency officials say a shooting has killed one person and injured two others in downtown Fresno.

Dan Lynch of Fresno County Emergency Medical Services says the two wounded by gunfire have been transported to hospitals.

Fresno city spokesman Mark Standriff says county offices are on lockdown, and people have been urged to shelter in place. Few other details were immediately known.

Ashlee Wolf of Catholic Charities told the Fresno Bee newspaper ( http://bit.ly/2oK6Vzc ) that the shooting happened at a bus stop near the charity.

Wolf says the charity doesn't believe the shooter was tied to Catholic Charities. She says the charity is working with police to provide information.