Sony Music's Carmine Coppola Elevated to EVP, CFO
Sony Music's Carmine Coppola Elevated to EVP, CFO
Sony Music's Carmine Coppola Elevated to EVP, CFO  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  , a 25-year veteran of Sony Music Entertainment, has been named executive vp and chief financial officer, filling the position left vacant whenÂ was named chief operating officer for the company earlier this year. Coppola will continue to report to Kelleher. Citing Coppola's in-depth knowledge of Sony Music's worldwideÂ financial operations, Kelleher said in a statement that Coppola has "worked in many roles within the finance team over the course of his career with Sony Music, and we look forward to benefiting from his wealth of experience as we further grow our business around the world." Most recently, Coppola had served as executive vp/global controller in Sony's global finance unit, where heÂ oversawÂ global financial planning and analysis, global financial reporting, and U.S. shared financial services. Prior to that position, he served as CFO of Sony MusicÂ International and before that senior vpÂ of finance in Sony Music's U.S. finance and operations. During his Sony career, he has worked on many deals including ones with Michael Jackson , Simon Cowell as well as theÂ acquisitions of the Orchard, Ministry of Sound and Ultra Records. Prior to that he worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers.  For his part, Coppola says he is looking forward to the challenges and opportunities ahead. "As the industry is growing and quickly evolving, this is an important time for our business," Coppola said in a statement. "I look forward to collaborating with the Sony Music executive team under the leadership of Rob Stringer to achieve even greater success for our artists and labels."   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Carmine Coppola, a 25-year veteran of Sony Music Entertainment, has been named executive vp and chief financial officer, filling the position left vacant whenÂ Kevin Kelleher was named chief operating officer for the company earlier this year. Coppola will continue to report to Kelleher.

Citing Coppola's in-depth knowledge of Sony Music's worldwideÂ financial operations, Kelleher said in a statement that Coppola has "worked in many roles within the finance team over the course of his career with Sony Music, and we look forward to benefiting from his wealth of experience as we further grow our business around the world."

Most recently, Coppola had served as executive vp/global controller in Sony's global finance unit, where heÂ oversawÂ global financial planning and analysis, global financial reporting, and U.S. shared financial services. Prior to that position, he served as CFO of Sony MusicÂ International and before that senior vpÂ of finance in Sony Music's U.S. finance and operations. During his Sony career, he has worked on many deals including ones with Michael Jackson, Simon Cowell as well as theÂ acquisitions of the Orchard, Ministry of Sound and Ultra Records. Prior to that he worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers.

For his part, Coppola says he is looking forward to the challenges and opportunities ahead. "As the industry is growing and quickly evolving, this is an important time for our business," Coppola said in a statement. "I look forward to collaborating with the Sony Music executive team under the leadership of Rob Stringer to achieve even greater success for our artists and labels."