'Practice What You Preach': Tucker Battles Prof Who Wants Higher Taxes For Rich

'Practice What You Preach': Tucker Battles Prof Who Wants Higher Taxes For Rich // // // On tax day, most Americans send the government ten to 40 percent of their income to fund the bureaucracy, and one professor says that's not enough for some tax brackets. Occidental College Professor Caroline Heldman wants the "one-percent" to pay taxes at rates of 80 percent or more, saying they don't yet pay "their fair share." Heldman said on "Tucker Carlson Tonight" that such ultra-wealthy individuals paid as much as 90 percent in taxes under Presidents Ike Eisenhower and John Kennedy. She said that returning to such high tax rates would ensure a proper social safety net and education system. Tucker Carlson countered that Americans already pay more than most other countries in the world on social programs and schooling. "Rich people aren't held to the same standards," Heldman said. "Taxes are the price we pay for civilization." Carlson asked whether the San Diego professor voluntarily paid more in taxes to reach the goal she set for the rich. When she responded that she instead donates to charities and Planned Parenthood, Carlson asked why she didn't "practice what you preach." Heldman repeated that she was not in the "one-percent" and just an "upper-income" American. She added that she feels so strongly about higher taxes in part because President Trump is presiding over a "train wreck" of a government when it comes to helping those in poverty.

On tax day, most Americans send the government ten to 40 percent of their income to fund the bureaucracy, and one professor says that's not enough for some tax brackets.

Occidental College Professor Caroline Heldman wants the "one-percent" to pay taxes at rates of 80 percent or more, saying they don't yet pay "their fair share."

Heldman said on "Tucker Carlson Tonight" that such ultra-wealthy individuals paid as much as 90 percent in taxes under Presidents Ike Eisenhower and John Kennedy.

Mark Cuban: US Must Seek Best Job Applicants, Foreign or Domestic

De Blasio Tweets His Tax Returns: 'See, President Trump? It's Not That Hard'

Luntz: Left-Wing Town Hall Protests 'Will Backfire' on Democrats in 2018

She said that returning to such high tax rates would ensure a proper social safety net and education system.

Tucker Carlson countered that Americans already pay more than most other countries in the world on social programs and schooling.

"Rich people aren't held to the same standards," Heldman said. "Taxes are the price we pay for civilization."

Carlson asked whether the San Diego professor voluntarily paid more in taxes to reach the goal she set for the rich.

When she responded that she instead donates to charities and Planned Parenthood, Carlson asked why she didn't "practice what you preach."

Heldman repeated that she was not in the "one-percent" and just an "upper-income" American.

She added that she feels so strongly about higher taxes in part because President Trump is presiding over a "train wreck" of a government when it comes to helping those in poverty.

Authors of Clinton Campaign Tell-All: Hillary Never Saw Trump Win Coming

Trump Signs 'Buy American' Order: 'It's America First, You Better Believe It'

DNC Chair Slams Trump's 'Buy American' Order: 'Start With Own Damn Businesses'