Miranda Kerr is really feeling the wrath of Spiegel's alleged India comments
Miranda Kerr is really feeling the wrath of Spiegel's alleged India comments
Australian supermodel and beauty entrepreneur Miranda Kerr is a seperate person from her fiancee, Snap Inc. CEO Evan Spiegel. But you wouldn't know it from the hectic trolling she's receiving on social media. The hashtag #UninstallSnapchat went viral in India three days ago, following Spiegel's alleged comments that "This app is only for rich people. I don't want to expand into poor countries like India and Spain," according to a lawsuit filed by former employee Anthony Pompliano. Now, Spiegel's future wife has been caught up in the inevitable furore across Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. What an honor to celebrate Jeff Koons and his incredible collaboration with @louisvuitton ❤🙏🏻😊 #lvxkoons A post shared by Miranda (@mirandakerr) on Comments mostly fall into two camps, the attackers and the defenders. While some social media users are expressing anger and disappointment at Spiegel's alleged words, asking the 33-year-old Victoria's Secret model to dump his ass — others are jumping to her defence and apologising for the rest. ✨❤✨ A post shared by Miranda (@mirandakerr) on "Leave Evan if you want to be happy, he is a pure racist and cheap mindset #RealTruth," says one Instagram user. "Happy birthday darling," says the next. "Bloody gold digger," says a random dude on Facebook. "Leave her alone idiots," writes one person on Instagram. "Stop degrading the value of our country with such stupidity." Another writes: "I am apologising on behalf of my country. You do not deserve the hate. WE don't even know if he actually said that. IT WAS NOT A DIRECT QUOTE!! Stop harassing her." @MirandaKerr  @LouisVuitton tell your boyfriend @evanspiegel to say sorry for what he says about india — Nisarg Patel (@pnisarg242) April 16, 2017 While Evan Spiegel isn't accessible via social media, Miranda Kerr very much is, making her the closest and most easily accessible target for trolls. Her latest Instagram post, for example, has just under 2,000 comments. And they ain't all flattering. Kerr is yet to respond to any of the comments. WATCH: The new Google Earth puts stunning Earth porn right in Chrome

Australian supermodel and beauty entrepreneur Miranda Kerr is a seperate person from her fiancee, Snap Inc. CEO Evan Spiegel. But you wouldn't know it from the hectic trolling she's receiving on social media.

The hashtag #UninstallSnapchat went viral in India three days ago, following Spiegel's alleged comments that "This app is only for rich people. I don't want to expand into poor countries like India and Spain," according to a lawsuit filed by former employee Anthony Pompliano.

Now, Spiegel's future wife has been caught up in the inevitable furore across Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

What an honor to celebrate Jeff Koons and his incredible collaboration with @louisvuitton ❤🙏🏻😊 #lvxkoons A post shared by Miranda (@mirandakerr) on Apr 11, 2017 at 5:38pm PDT

Comments mostly fall into two camps, the attackers and the defenders. While some social media users are expressing anger and disappointment at Spiegel's alleged words, asking the 33-year-old Victoria's Secret model to dump his ass — others are jumping to her defence and apologising for the rest.

✨❤✨ A post shared by Miranda (@mirandakerr) on Apr 10, 2017 at 5:41am PDT

"Leave Evan if you want to be happy, he is a pure racist and cheap mindset #RealTruth," says one Instagram user. "Happy birthday darling," says the next. "Bloody gold digger," says a random dude on Facebook.

"Leave her alone idiots," writes one person on Instagram. "Stop degrading the value of our country with such stupidity."

Another writes: "I am apologising on behalf of my country. You do not deserve the hate. WE don't even know if he actually said that. IT WAS NOT A DIRECT QUOTE!! Stop harassing her."

@MirandaKerr @LouisVuitton tell your boyfriend @evanspiegel to say sorry for what he says about india — Nisarg Patel (@pnisarg242) April 16, 2017

While Evan Spiegel isn't accessible via social media, Miranda Kerr very much is, making her the closest and most easily accessible target for trolls. Her latest Instagram post, for example, has just under 2,000 comments. And they ain't all flattering.

Kerr is yet to respond to any of the comments.