Government to announce $300m training fund amid 457 visa change skills shortage concern



Government to announce $300m training fund amid 457 visa change skills shortage concern

Updated

A $300 million training fund will be used to bolster skills for young Australians and redeployed workers, amid fears the Federal Government's changes to migration visas system will further exacerbate the nation's skills shortage.

Key points: Prime Minister's rhetoric has drawn comparisons with Donald Trump

Bill Shorten sceptical about how effective the Government's visa changes would be

Australian Mines and Metals Association says system "hasn't been broken"

The ABC understands the Coalition will make the announcement in the federal budget due to be handed down in three weeks' time.

Money for the training fund would come from extra charges on employers seeking to employ foreign workers and would complement a wider focus on vocational and non-university skills training.

Yesterday the 457 skilled migrant visa scheme was scrapped as Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull focused the Government's rhetoric on "putting Australian jobs first".

Mr Turnbull's new focus has drawn comparisons with the United States President Donald Trump, whose election platform was solidly protectionist in rhetoric.

Mr Trump has also announced a review of skilled worker visas.

As of December 31 last year, there were 81,298 people in Australia on 457 visas.

Labor has accused the Prime Minister's decision on foreign workers being more to do with politics than policy.

But Mr Turnbull insisted the move was nothing to do with politics.

"We are securing our borders, we are reforming migration," Mr Turnbull said.

"We are putting Australians and Australian jobs and Australian values and Australia's national interest first."

However, the Opposition has claimed credit for the idea of "putting Australians first".

"I make no apology, I'm going to stand up for Australian jobs first and Australians first," Opposition Leader Shorten told the National Press Club in January.

Mr Shorten remained sceptical about how effective the Government's changes would be to the migration system, but said his party was "absolutely" supportive of reforming the skilled migrant scheme.

"If you're asking me what do I think about renaming one category of visas into two different categories of visas, well, that's just shifting deckchairs, isn't it, on the proverbial sinking ship," he said.

'The system hasn't been broken'

There were more than 650 occupations eligible for 457 visas, and the Government's plan would cut that number by more than 200.

"There won't be a huge change for engineers, unlike other sectors where goat herding and other jobs might be a little more questionable," said Chris Stoltz from Engineers Australia.

The Australian Mines and Metals Association (AMMA) denied there was a problem to fix.

The mining sector was one of the main drivers of the need for foreign workers during its boom times.

AMMA points to Department of Immigration figures showing the resource industry made 6,630 applications for 457 visas in 2011-12, falling to 2,600 in 2013-14 and just 230 in 2016-17.

But the resources boom also saw non-mining areas of the economy hollowed out, as a fly-in-fly-out city workforce serviced massive projects in WA's Pilbara and central Queensland.

"The system hasn't been broken and was delivering on what was intended, which was to be responsive to the economy and changing labour demands," AMMA's acting chief executive Tara Diamond said.

"So from our perspective, the system hasn't been broken and has been working as it was intended."

Other sectors, including those representing the hotel, motel and serviced apartment industry worry the new regime will be too burdensome.

"We still need to see all the detail, but we were concerned because effectively our industry needs a steady supply of labour, and if we don't have that, we're just not having the applications from the local communities," said Richard Munro from Accommodation Association of Australia.

"To make beds and to serve customers, it's a very integral part of our business. We're labour intensive."

Topics: budget, government-and-politics, federal-government, federal-parliament, australia

First posted