27 Stores With Helpful Reviews That'll Make Online Shopping So Much Easier
27 Stores With Reviews That Are Actually Helpful
Women's and men's clothing, accessories, home goods, and beauty products. Check out Aerie for all of their intimates and loungewear.  Dresses start at $17.97. Free on orders of $50+. "I love these leggings because they are thick and not see through! But they are lightweight and stretchy enough to work out/do yoga! AE leggings are the only ones I wear out in public, because I know they have coverage, hold everything in, and are very comfy!" – Louwww                                   Everything.  Products start at $.01. Free same- or two-day shipping on over 50 million products if you're a Prime member . " These are the best version of shatterproof wine glasses I've ever seen. The little rift at the side is perfect for comfortably fitting in your hand. Usually shatterproof glasses feel cheap, but these didn't. They were shiny and easy to see through, and I liked the material. Unfortunately one of my roommates put them in the dishwasher and they got all bent out of shape, so I do NOT recommend doing that!" — Mary                                   Furniture, rugs, décor, lighting, and more. Vary depending on category. Free on orders over $49. " This couch is perfect! I got it in dark grey. It was easy to put together by myself (I am 5"2). It is very firm, which I find very comfortable. I already spilled something on it, and it cleaned up well." —Jennifer                                   A full range of skincare, makeup, hair products, and fragrances.  Lipsticks start at $5. Free on orders of $50+. "I was looking for a nice nude lipstick for spring, but I wasn't sure what I wanted. This sampler is perfect. It includes a range of nudes from palest pink to an almost brown. It also has a variety of finishes — lip stain, matte, and gloss, plus a great all purpose liner. Great value too." — Nicole Evon                                   Women's clothing and accessories, plus men's, children's, and babies' clothing.  Dresses start at $10. Free on orders of $50+. "I bought this dress for a school dance and when I tried it on, it looked much better than I was expecting. I got the extra small, and I have bigger hips, so the dress suited my curves well but wasn't too short for the occasion. The fabric is silky and has a nice twirl to it. I'll probably buy other patterns in the same style!" —Lizzy432                                   Women's clothing, gifts, home goods, and beauty products.  Dresses start at $13.99. Free on orders over $75. "This is a very nice dress — the print was sharp, exactly like the photos and perfect for fall. The dress is fully lined, which gives it a nice 'heft' and enhances its quality. The dress fit me wonderfully, has a very flattering shape, and the length was right at the knee. The only issue I had was the zipper getting caught on the thicker fabric where the bodice and skirt meet. I got lots of compliments when I wore it to the Keeneland races this October" –Anonymous                                   Korean skincare and makeup products, plus products for hair and body.  Sheet masks start at $2. Free on orders of $35+. "I really love this lip tint . It goes on smoothly and the color isn't too harsh. The color lasts a good few hours, but after a couple of hours I noticed that the color was splotchy around the ends of my mouth. But overall I love this tint — it's one of the best long lasting tints I've tried." —Alejandra D.                                   Women's clothing and accessories, plus men's clothing, home goods, and beauty products.  Dresses start at $24. Free on orders of $50+. "Bought the sunflower print online and OMG. This is just a stunning casual dress. Fits perfectly. Fabric is a little thicker than I expected, so a pleasant surprise. Only a smidge see through. All in all, worth the $$$ for sure and I have a tendency to be insanely frugal & picky. I've got my eye on the white one now...." —Tana ATX                                   Women's, men's, and children's clothing, shoes, and accessories.  Women's boots start at $27.99. Free on every order. "Beautiful, simple heel that pairs well with many outfits — casual and dressy. The fit was true to size and the heels are comfortable. I appreciate the low heel. The heels were slightly slippery at first, but after scuffing the soles they are fine." —KJ                                   Women's clothing, accessories, and beauty products. Check out TopMan for men's clothing and accessories. Dresses start at $12 . Free on all orders (plus free returns!). "Another pair of great leggings by Topshop. They fit great, and I love the detail on the side — it definitely adds an edge to an outfit. Perfect." — Skybird                                   Korean makeup and skincare products.  Sheet masks start at $1. Free on orders of $40+. "Honestly so surprised at how well this mask works at lifting off all that excess debris from my pores after wearing my makeup longer than usual or more makeup than normal. I love how fast this mask takes to actually have an effect. I usually pop it on ~5 minutes before I jump in the shower so that clean-up is as easy as possible." —Marissa                                   Lingerie, sleep and loungewear, and beauty products.  Panties start at $5. Free on orders of $50+. "I do recommend this bra . It runs true to size and it's quite supportive as well. I'm in the 34DD so there is a lot to support. I'm very pleased with this bra. It's much more comfortable than my others. The support is a bit different than a wire bra, but still pretty supportive. I'm pleasantly surprised. I'd like to have one in every color." —T. Kindle                                   Skincare and makeup.  Makeup starts at $14. Free on orders of $30 (plus free returns!). "If you are fair like I am, Cloud Paint in Dusk is like Contouring for Dummies. I just swipe some into the hollows of my cheeks and pat until it's blended, and voila! A contoured face for the girl who has never contoured in her life and certainly doesn't have the patience to do so. The final touch is Cloud Paint in Puff on the tops of the apples of my cheeks and I've managed to finger paint my face into looking well-rested and sculpted."                                   Women's, men's, and kid's clothing and accessories, plus home goods and beauty products.  Dresses start at $21.60. Free on all orders (plus free returns!). "I can't tell you how much I love this backpack . I've had one for over a year and it still looks the same. I've never owned a bag this durable. If you need to clean it from any scuffs, a Magic Eraser works wonders. It's water resistant too. I've gotten lots of compliments on it. Very durable, easy to clean, and cute!" — AlyssaM88                                   *This is at least 50% true. Bras, panties, lingerie, and loungewear.  Bras start at $34. Free on orders over $75. " Most comfortable bra ever! I have despised bras my entire life, never finding one that was remotely comfortable. I have tried everything from the cheapest to the most expensive and still couldn't wait to rip them off the second I got home. Well, after 30 years of wearing a bra I have finally found one I love!! I even wear it to bed sometimes. That's unheard of! I am a 36C and it gives me decent support. If you hate bras, I recommend you give this one a try. I hope they make more colors. Yay!!" —Christina Check out a review of the first bra by yours truly here (#6 on the list)!                                   Makeup, skincare, and beauty tools.  Lipsticks start at $1. Free on orders of $25+. "I bought this on a whim, and I am so glad I did! The formula is gorgeous, so creamy and thick, but it applies easily and feels lightweight on the skin. I've tried with and without setting spray and it lasts a full work day (8+ hours) even without. Reasonable coverage (I have rosacea and it covers redness well) and less than half the price of my usual foundation!" —RayScho                                   Cool inventions, gadgets, home products, beauty products, and more. New releases start at $9.95 . Free on orders over $50. "This is my second Peeps purchase. These eyeglass cleaners work better than anything I've tried in over 40 years of wearing glasses. I won't use anything else on my new $900 eyeglasses. They clean every bit of the surface of the lens without streaks. I rarely use the brush part of the Peeps. I just blow on my lenses to get any dirt off. I highly recommend this eyeglass cleaner." —Tana                                   Women's clothing and accessories (sizes 10-30).  Dresses start at $14.23. $6 flat rate on all orders. "Torrid's sateen shorts are my absolute favorite — great material, length and fit. This season, the shorts appear to have a few changes. Rather than a double clasp closure, these have a two-button closure. The front pockets are also more square than the previous trouser-style. These changes didn't affect the fit for me — my usual size fit wonderfully, as did the belt. A great buy!" —The Kiddo                                   Makeup, skincare, nail polishes, and beauty subscription boxes.  Lipsticks start at $20. Free on orders over $10. "I have been using the Konjac sponge along with Julep's Bare Face Cleansing Oil for about a month now, and I couldn't be happier with the results! My face is smoother and clearer with ZERO face acne, even during my time of the month, when my acne is usually at its worst. This sponge is very soft but does a great job with exfoliating the skin without the rough texture of many products like it. I have had better results with this alone than I did with my expensive 4-step beauty regime. I noticed the most results after about two weeks of using the product 1-2 times daily. Highly recommend this." —TIffany                                   Women's, men's, and girls' clothing and accessories, plus beauty products. Dresses start at $7.90 . Free on orders of $50+. "I've been looking for a nice, olive green utility jacket but when I ordered this , I was scared I might not like it in person. It just arrived today and I love it; it looks just like the photos provided online! I love the material of the jacket and how it feels on. I don't regret this purchase at all." —Diana Gomez                                   Women's and men's clothing and accessories.  Dresses start at $35. Free on your first order and on orders with two or more items. " This raincoat is perfect for the Pacific Northwest. Casual, functional and chic. Oversized and easy to layer over sweaters; it's my go-to raincoat in spring and fall. Small women should order the XS." —Silvia                                   Many varieties of products from independent makers.  New releases start at $9.99. Costs vary based on order value. "These bath bombs are awesome! I don't actually know what it's like to swim amongst the stars — it's probably not all that pleasant if you really think about it — but if we imagine some fantasy world where that experience wouldn't kill us and might even be something we strive for, then using these bath bombs would be like that. My point is they're great and well priced and I will probably buy them again. The only thing that could have made this any better is to have a bonus bath bomb that represents Pluto." —Penguin Snafu                                   Women's, men's, and kids' clothing and accessories, plus home goods. Dresses start at $44.99 . Free on orders of $50+. " This is a beautiful suit! It covers where it needs to but is also really stylish. The color is just as it is represented — a stunning deep blue. I am a 34F and the buckle back provides great support. The best thing is that this suit sucks everything in a bit (not uncomfortably so) while the cutouts make you feel a little sexy. My only hesitation is that the buckle is hard to close yourself; I will have to practice." —Viking Mama                                   Dress, accessory, and other rentals for any occasion you have coming up.  Dress rentals start at $30. Flat rate of $9.95 on all (non-expedited) orders. "So many compliments on this dress ! I loved it. Even with the racerback, I was still able to wear a regular strapless bra under. I was glad I got this one and would wear it again." —Becky                                   Makeup, skincare, and hair products, plus a subscription box.  Lipsticks start at $9. Free on all orders of $50+. "I've been using this gel for a couple of years, and I never leave the house without it! I have very thin brows, and one has a small bald spot...this fills them out beautifully, without looking like I drew on brows. Very natural on its own, and you can layer it over a pencil for a more dramatic look." —Beth                                   Storage essentials for every room in the house. Products start at $.07 . Free on orders of $75+. "No excuse not to do food prep now! I hate ziploc containers and having a million boxes and bags for my lunch not to mention snacks at work. Problems solved now! There's plenty of room for snacks and lunch in this and it allows me to still be healthy at work while not spending a fortune at the break room each day." — H Mac                                   Women's, men's, and children's clothes and accessories.  Dresses start at $26.95. Free on orders of $100+. "Beautiful color with delicate detail, slightly longer than I thought, but I love the dress overall and will wear to many summer weddings." — Emily

What they carry: Women's and men's clothing, accessories, home goods, and beauty products. Check out Aerie for all of their intimates and loungewear.

Prices: Dresses start at $17.97.

Shipping: Free on orders of $50+.

Example review: "I love these leggings because they are thick and not see through! But they are lightweight and stretchy enough to work out/do yoga! AE leggings are the only ones I wear out in public, because I know they have coverage, hold everything in, and are very comfy!" –Louwww

Get the leggings for $11.97 and the bra for $20.