Trevor Noah Explains Why Alex Jones' 'Performance' Should Terrify You
Trevor Noah Explains Why Alex Jones' 'Performance' Should Terrify You
Trevor Noah says he’s learned in America that if you really want to get to know someone, take them to court. That’s where a person’s identity unravels, explained the “ Daily Show ” host, who is from South Africa . The comedian gave as examples on Tuesday’s show Hulk Hogan, who argued in court that he doesn’t actually have a 10-inch penis and 50 Cent, who had to admit that he isn’t really a millionaire . But Alex Jones ’ court-revealed identity may be the most dangerous one of all, Noah said. To recap: Jones, a conspiracy theorist who runs the InfoWars website that’s been labeled “ fake news ”, argued in court this week that he’s not actually a crazy person like his show may suggest ― he’s just a “performance artist” who’s playing a deranged man on air . Noah didn’t take issue with people who use fake personas, but he did have a problem with their influence on fans. “The problem with Alex Jones is that his act has real consequences,” Noah said. He cited as a case in point the InfoWars fan who shot at a pizzeria in Washington, D.C., because Jones had falsely claimed that Democratic politicians were hiding child sex slaves in its basement. “When he says 9/11 was a government conspiracy, or when he says mass shootings are fake, or when he says there’s a pizza shop in D.C. full of pedophiles ... his fans want to do something about it,” Noah said. “The scariest thing about Alex Jones is that that fan only had one gun,” he added. “One of his biggest fans has an entire army.” Watch Noah rip into conspiracy theorists and find out who Jones’ most dangerous and gullible fan really is in the “Daily Show” clip above. ALSO ON HUFFPOST How To Get Into The Conspiracy Theory Game       Share this slide:       MORE:

Trevor Noah says he’s learned in America that if you really want to get to know someone, take them to court. That’s where a person’s identity unravels, explained the “Daily Show” host, who is from South Africa.

The comedian gave as examples on Tuesday’s show Hulk Hogan, who argued in court that he doesn’t actually have a 10-inch penis and 50 Cent, who had to admit that he isn’t really a millionaire.

But Alex Jones’ court-revealed identity may be the most dangerous one of all, Noah said.

Noah didn’t take issue with people who use fake personas, but he did have a problem with their influence on fans.

“The problem with Alex Jones is that his act has real consequences,” Noah said.

He cited as a case in point the InfoWars fan who shot at a pizzeria in Washington, D.C., because Jones had falsely claimed that Democratic politicians were hiding child sex slaves in its basement.

“When he says 9/11 was a government conspiracy, or when he says mass shootings are fake, or when he says there’s a pizza shop in D.C. full of pedophiles ... his fans want to do something about it,” Noah said.

“The scariest thing about Alex Jones is that that fan only had one gun,” he added. “One of his biggest fans has an entire army.”