This 'Save The Boy Child' Campaign Is Every Grain Of Truth That Our Society Needs To Learn
This 'Save The Boy Child' Campaign Is Every Grain Of Truth That Our Society Needs To Learn
This 'Save The Boy Child' Campaign Is Every Grain Of Truth That Our Society Needs To Learn The first thing that comes to your mind when you see 'save the girl child' is illegal abortions and female foeticide . But have you ever heard of a campaign that reads 'save the boy child', I guess no because there wasn't any need. Or there was? Women in India have had enough blinkered and chauvinistic opinions on board. They have been mansplained a lot too and it's about time that the country stops judging their character based on the size of their clothes , the jobs they do, the make up their wear, and the opinion they have. In this campaign, we want to save the boy child. We want to save them from becoming a: 1. Wife Beater 2. Rapist 3. Stalker and other 10,000 condescending pieces of a patronising master that they have become. We need to save them from becoming that person who thinks that women are inferior to him. Who thinks that it is okay to tease them. Who thinks that it is okay to get away with physical assault. Because it is not! Let's hope that this campaign reaches masses and as many people as it should so that we can shape our country profoundly.

The first thing that comes to your mind when you see 'save the girl child' is illegal abortions and female foeticide. But have you ever heard of a campaign that reads 'save the boy child', I guess no because there wasn't any need.

Or there was?

Women in India have had enough blinkered and chauvinistic opinions on board. They have been mansplained a lot too and it's about time that the country stops judging their character based on the size of their clothes, the jobs they do, the make up their wear, and the opinion they have.

In this campaign, we want to save the boy child. We want to save them from becoming a:

1. Wife Beater

2. Rapist

3. Stalker

and other 10,000 condescending pieces of a patronising master that they have become. We need to save them from becoming that person who thinks that women are inferior to him. Who thinks that it is okay to tease them. Who thinks that it is okay to get away with physical assault.

Because it is not!

Let's hope that this campaign reaches masses and as many people as it should so that we can shape our country profoundly.