Former Patriots football player Aaron Hernandez found dead in jail cell
Former Patriots player Aaron Hernandez found dead in jail cell
Shares               Former New England Patriots football player Aaron Hernandez was discovered dead this morning after hanging himself in his jail cell, according to the Massachusetts Department of Correction. In a statement, the MDOC said that corrections officers found Hernandez at the Souza Baranowski Correctional Center in Shirley Massachusetts at about 3:05 a.m. EST, after which resuscitation efforts were attempted. He was subsequently tranported to UMASS Leominster hospital where he was pronounced dead at 4:07 a.m. EST by a hospital doctor. "Mr. Hernandez hanged himself utilizing a bed sheet that he attached to his cell window," the MDOC statement read. "Mr. Hernandez also attempted to block his door from the inside by jamming the door with various items." Massachusetts State Police are currently investigating the scene, the MDOC said.     Shares                  Former Patriots player Aaron Hernandez found dead in jail cell   Syria resumes reciprocal evacuations after deadly bombing   Ex-Saints star's killer faces sentencing, but delay possible   12 students hospitalized after Idaho school bus rolls over   President George HW Bush hospitalized but 'doing fine'   Senate Dems: Cost for border wall could 'soar' to $70 billion   US intercepts 2 Russian bombers off Alaska coast   Trump inaugural committee announces record-breaking haul   Trump, Erdogan to meet in May: Turkey FM   Brave beaver herds confused cattle in Canada   Tax refund vacations: 7 exotic trips   Luxurious New York City mansion on the market for $84.5 million   Starbucks calls shifting-color drink a Unicorn Frappuccino   Clock tower over the Trump hotel quietly reopens for tours   Sienna Miller on co-parenting with her ex: 'We do bedtime every day'   Stay-at-home dad leaves hilarious Post-its around house for his wife   Georgetown University renames buildings for enslaved people   UK police name suspect in east London nightclub acid attack   Turkey's premier warns opposition against street protests   United CEO says no one will be fired for dragging incident   Man gets 25 years in 1979 case of missing boy Etan Patz   Suspect in custody after sheriff's deputy shot dead in Oklahoma   Flint mayor says water switch 'too risky' after lead crisis   Some vets can go to CVS 'MinuteClinics' for minor illnesses   Inmate may be freed after DNA raises doubts in Ohio slaying   John Glenn honored with launch of space station supply ship   DHS secretary: 'We are a nation under attack'   Queens jogger murder suspect allegedly told police 'I strangled her'   Massachusetts jogger's alleged killer held on $10M cash bail   How a food writer struggling with mental illness found comfort through cooking   Kendall Jenner: I'm more Jenner than Kardashian   Passengers scream as bus plunges in Philippines, killing 31   Comic on Trump, racism and his rise to fame   'Pretty Little Liars' cast on saying goodbye after hit show's 7-year run   Erika Jayne jokes that everyone is 'very nice' on 'DWTS' compared with 'Real Housewives'   Jennifer Hudson on who influenced her new Netflix movie role

Former New England Patriots football player Aaron Hernandez was discovered dead this morning after hanging himself in his jail cell, according to the Massachusetts Department of Correction.

In a statement, the MDOC said that corrections officers found Hernandez at the Souza Baranowski Correctional Center in Shirley Massachusetts at about 3:05 a.m. EST, after which resuscitation efforts were attempted. He was subsequently tranported to UMASS Leominster hospital where he was pronounced dead at 4:07 a.m. EST by a hospital doctor.

"Mr. Hernandez hanged himself utilizing a bed sheet that he attached to his cell window," the MDOC statement read. "Mr. Hernandez also attempted to block his door from the inside by jamming the door with various items."

Massachusetts State Police are currently investigating the scene, the MDOC said.

This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.

ABC News' Matt Foster contributed to this report.