CMO Today: Fox News Prepares to Cut Ties With Bill O’Reilly
CMO Today: Fox News Prepares to Cut Ties With Bill O’Reilly
Biography Alexandra Bruell alexandra.bruell@wsj.com  The tides seemed to turn against Fox News star host Bill O’Reilly on Tuesday in the wake of a sexual-harassment scandal. New York Magazine reported the Murdoch family was leaning toward a decision to not have Mr. O’Reilly return to the air after his vacation. Then The Wall Street Journal’s Joe Flint reported that Fox News is preparing to cut ties with Mr. O’Reilly and that a final resolution could come as early as the next several days. Parent company 21st Century Fox, which will hold a board meeting Thursday, hasn’t finalized an exit agreement with Mr. O’Reilly, according to the Journal. The loss of “The O’Reilly Factor” would be a stunning turn of events and create a major prime-time hole for the cable news network. 21st Century Fox had stood by Mr. O’Reilly as the scandal erupted when the New York Times reported that $13 million had been paid to five women to settle harassment claims. Though Mr. O’Reilly denied any wrongdoing, the revelations sparked an advertiser boycott of his show, protests and petitions for his removal, and an increased spotlight on the treatment of women at the network. Pressure increased when another woman reported sexual-harassment allegations on Tuesday. But Mr. O’Reilly’s camp is fighting back, saying he has been subject to a smear campaign by far-left organizations. (21st Century Fox and Wall Street Journal-owner News Corp share common ownership.)  Is Hollywood in for a sequel? The Writers Guild of America’s membership is expected this week to vote for a strike authorization, ahead of their May 1 contract expiration, bringing up memories of the writers’ four-month walk off almost a decade ago. A writers’ strike could halt TV production at a time when streaming services and demand for original programming are driving more scripted TV production than ever, reports WSJ. Despite this era of peak TV, writers say they aren’t benefiting from the growth in programming and are clashing over health care and exclusive contracts between writers and shows. The WGA said that the average salary of TV writers fell by 23% over the past two seasons and that the amount of episodes per season has shrunk. A strike, which could force networks into reruns or reality shows, couldn’t come at a worse time as channels get ready to present their fall lineups to advertisers in hopes of securing long-term ad commitments. The union recently sent a letter to ad buyers that could be “negatively affected by this dispute,” according to a copy of the letter posted on Deadline. Advertisers will want “additional flexibility and protection” to change deals in case of a strike, said one media buyer.  Private and state-backed Chinese companies have invested tens of billions of dollars in U.S. film businesses over the past decade, and Hollywood has happily accepted the money and seen the tie-ups as a chance to reach a billion potential moviegoers in China. In turn, China has become indispensable to the film business , even as the relationship comes with strings attached, such as Chinese censors and a strong cultural influence of how movies get made, reports WSJ’s Erich Schwartzel. “We never thought of China 10 years ago. Now, we’re at a point where Hollywood can’t exist without China,” said Adam Goodman, a former production chief at Paramount Pictures who now runs a film-production company backed by a Beijing technology firm. This dependence started when the financial crisis dried up Wall Street financing for Hollywood films at the same time U.S. theater attendance stagnated and DVD sales dried up because of streaming services like Netflix. Meanwhile, China’s box-office sales have more than tripled since 2011 and may surpass the U.S. in a few years. This past weekend, the latest installment in the “Fast and Furious” franchise had a record global opening , partly thanks to its simultaneous release in China.  Augmented reality is the latest frontier in the battle of the social media giants. As WSJ reports, Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg announced at Facebook’s annual F8 developers’ conference on Tuesday that Facebook would make its augmented-reality features accessible to third parties to create custom effects like masks and filters. AR combines the physical and digital worlds. Facebook’s partners in the latest effort include Nike, Electronic Arts and Warner Bros. “I think people look at this stuff and think: OK, that’s kind of fun, kind of primitive, this is just what kids like doing today,” Mr. Zuckerberg told WSJ in an interview. “But we look at that and we see the beginning of a platform.” He also talked about the potential for glasses or contact lenses to replace a common screen, reports Business Insider. Any of this sound familiar? The moves add fuel to Facebook’s ongoing rivalry with Snap Inc., which also announced a new AR feature on Tuesday and recently began selling camera-enabled sunglasses. Snapchat will now allow users to add special effects not only to faces, but also to scenes in photos and videos captured on phones. Elsewhere Oracle has agreed to acquire Moat, a company that has built its reputation as a third-party firm hired to measure ads across platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Snapchat. The move comes as advertisers and publishers rely more heavily on firms such as Moat to add greater visibility and transparency to their digital advertising efforts. [ CMO Today ] Omnicom said during its first-quarter earnings call that it is keeping a cautious outlook due to global uncertainty around geopolitical and macroeconomic events. The ad holding company also said it divested some of its events and field marketing businesses and discussed some digital ad trends impacting businesses like Accuen. [ CMO Today ] Apple News doesn’t give publishers on its platform a major advertising revenue boost. But some publishers are finding new favor with the news app, which has been providing added traffic in recent months and is now letting them use the platform to sell subscriptions. [ Digiday ] Publicis Groupe has created another layer of management. The French ad holding company has created the role of country president, starting with France. This person will be responsible for overseeing various agency groups. [ Ad Age ] Former NBA star Kobe Bryant has created, written, directed and narrated an ad for BodyArmor, a sports beverage company in which he is also an investor. [ WSJ ] The New York Times has named Ellen Pollock the top editor of its Business Day section. Ms. Pollock was formerly the editor of Bloomberg Businessweek and a longtime Wall Street Journal reporter and editor. [ NYT ] As Cheddar airs programming on digital UHF stations in five markets that reach more than 4 million homes, the media company is handing out antennas in the hopes that it can convince cord-cutting millennials to watch an old-school broadcast. [ Bloomberg ] Yahoo reported a 22% boost in first-quarter revenue, in what may be the company’s last earnings report before completing the planned sale of its internet business to wireless giant Verizon. [ Fortune ] About Us Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO , @digitalshields , @VranicaWSJ , @JackMarshall , @alexbruell , @srabil , @asharma  Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup .  Alexandra Bruell at alexandra.bruell@wsj.com      Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print   Mixed Reality for Immersive Experiences  Augmented and virtual reality technologies are intersecting with opportunities made possible by the internet of things, creating a new category of mixed reality that use sensors, gestures, voice, context, and digital content to help humans interact more naturally with the increasingly intelligent world. This could transform worker effectiveness, customer engagement, and productivity in the enterprise.  Please note: The Wall Street Journal News Department was not involved in the creation of the content above. Most Popular Videos  The Most American Car Isn't American  Corporate Hugging: A Field Guide   Why U.K. PM Theresa May Called an Election    The Benefits of Being Number Two    Facebook Launches New Augmented-Reality Technology  Most Popular Articles      Fox News Is Preparing to Cut Ties With Bill O’Reilly        In Las Vegas, Drinks Flow a Little Less Freely        Hollywood’s New Script: You Can’t Make Movies Without China        Carrier Threat Wasn’t All It Seemed        New CSX CEO Shakes Up Railroad, Starting With ‘Hump Yards’

On April 18, women’s group Ultraviolet organized a protest outside Fox News headquarters and delivered a petition, signed by more than 140,000 people, calling for the network to fire Mr. O’Reilly. Photo: Zuma Press

O’REILLY DRUMBEAT: The tides seemed to turn against Fox News star host Bill O’Reilly on Tuesday in the wake of a sexual-harassment scandal. New York Magazine reported the Murdoch family was leaning toward a decision to not have Mr. O’Reilly return to the air after his vacation. Then The Wall Street Journal’s Joe Flint reported that Fox News is preparing to cut ties with Mr. O’Reilly and that a final resolution could come as early as the next several days. Parent company 21st Century Fox, which will hold a board meeting Thursday, hasn’t finalized an exit agreement with Mr. O’Reilly, according to the Journal. The loss of “The O’Reilly Factor” would be a stunning turn of events and create a major prime-time hole for the cable news network. 21st Century Fox had stood by Mr. O’Reilly as the scandal erupted when the New York Times reported that $13 million had been paid to five women to settle harassment claims. Though Mr. O’Reilly denied any wrongdoing, the revelations sparked an advertiser boycott of his show, protests and petitions for his removal, and an increased spotlight on the treatment of women at the network. Pressure increased when another woman reported sexual-harassment allegations on Tuesday. But Mr. O’Reilly’s camp is fighting back, saying he has been subject to a smear campaign by far-left organizations. (21st Century Fox and Wall Street Journal-owner News Corp share common ownership.)

STRIKE LOOMS: Is Hollywood in for a sequel? The Writers Guild of America’s membership is expected this week to vote for a strike authorization, ahead of their May 1 contract expiration, bringing up memories of the writers’ four-month walk off almost a decade ago. A writers’ strike could halt TV production at a time when streaming services and demand for original programming are driving more scripted TV production than ever, reports WSJ. Despite this era of peak TV, writers say they aren’t benefiting from the growth in programming and are clashing over health care and exclusive contracts between writers and shows. The WGA said that the average salary of TV writers fell by 23% over the past two seasons and that the amount of episodes per season has shrunk. A strike, which could force networks into reruns or reality shows, couldn’t come at a worse time as channels get ready to present their fall lineups to advertisers in hopes of securing long-term ad commitments. The union recently sent a letter to ad buyers that could be “negatively affected by this dispute,” according to a copy of the letter posted on Deadline. Advertisers will want “additional flexibility and protection” to change deals in case of a strike, said one media buyer.

CHINAWOOD: Private and state-backed Chinese companies have invested tens of billions of dollars in U.S. film businesses over the past decade, and Hollywood has happily accepted the money and seen the tie-ups as a chance to reach a billion potential moviegoers in China. In turn, China has become indispensable to the film business, even as the relationship comes with strings attached, such as Chinese censors and a strong cultural influence of how movies get made, reports WSJ’s Erich Schwartzel. “We never thought of China 10 years ago. Now, we’re at a point where Hollywood can’t exist without China,” said Adam Goodman, a former production chief at Paramount Pictures who now runs a film-production company backed by a Beijing technology firm. This dependence started when the financial crisis dried up Wall Street financing for Hollywood films at the same time U.S. theater attendance stagnated and DVD sales dried up because of streaming services like Netflix. Meanwhile, China’s box-office sales have more than tripled since 2011 and may surpass the U.S. in a few years. This past weekend, the latest installment in the “Fast and Furious” franchise had a record global opening, partly thanks to its simultaneous release in China.

AUGMENTED RIVALRY: Augmented reality is the latest frontier in the battle of the social media giants. As WSJ reports, Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg announced at Facebook’s annual F8 developers’ conference on Tuesday that Facebook would make its augmented-reality features accessible to third parties to create custom effects like masks and filters. AR combines the physical and digital worlds. Facebook’s partners in the latest effort include Nike, Electronic Arts and Warner Bros. “I think people look at this stuff and think: OK, that’s kind of fun, kind of primitive, this is just what kids like doing today,” Mr. Zuckerberg told WSJ in an interview. “But we look at that and we see the beginning of a platform.” He also talked about the potential for glasses or contact lenses to replace a common screen, reports Business Insider. Any of this sound familiar? The moves add fuel to Facebook’s ongoing rivalry with Snap Inc., which also announced a new AR feature on Tuesday and recently began selling camera-enabled sunglasses. Snapchat will now allow users to add special effects not only to faces, but also to scenes in photos and videos captured on phones.

Elsewhere

Oracle has agreed to acquire Moat, a company that has built its reputation as a third-party firm hired to measure ads across platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Snapchat. The move comes as advertisers and publishers rely more heavily on firms such as Moat to add greater visibility and transparency to their digital advertising efforts. [CMO Today]

Omnicom said during its first-quarter earnings call that it is keeping a cautious outlook due to global uncertainty around geopolitical and macroeconomic events. The ad holding company also said it divested some of its events and field marketing businesses and discussed some digital ad trends impacting businesses like Accuen. [CMO Today]

Apple News doesn’t give publishers on its platform a major advertising revenue boost. But some publishers are finding new favor with the news app, which has been providing added traffic in recent months and is now letting them use the platform to sell subscriptions. [Digiday]

Publicis Groupe has created another layer of management. The French ad holding company has created the role of country president, starting with France. This person will be responsible for overseeing various agency groups. [Ad Age]

Former NBA star Kobe Bryant has created, written, directed and narrated an ad for BodyArmor, a sports beverage company in which he is also an investor. [WSJ]

The New York Times has named Ellen Pollock the top editor of its Business Day section. Ms. Pollock was formerly the editor of Bloomberg Businessweek and a longtime Wall Street Journal reporter and editor. [NYT]

As Cheddar airs programming on digital UHF stations in five markets that reach more than 4 million homes, the media company is handing out antennas in the hopes that it can convince cord-cutting millennials to watch an old-school broadcast. [Bloomberg]

Yahoo reported a 22% boost in first-quarter revenue, in what may be the company’s last earnings report before completing the planned sale of its internet business to wireless giant Verizon. [Fortune]

About Us

Follow us on Twitter: @wsjCMO, @digitalshields, @VranicaWSJ, @JackMarshall, @alexbruell, @srabil, @asharma

Subscribe to our morning newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox, at http://on.wsj.com/CMOTodaySignup.

Write to Alexandra Bruell at alexandra.bruell@wsj.com