PM Modi Finally Ends The Era Of VIP Culture, Bans 'Lal Batti' On Vehicles.
PM Modi Finally Ends The Era Of VIP Culture, Bans 'Lal Batti' On Vehicles.
PM Modi Finally Ends The Era Of VIP Culture, Bans 'Lal Batti' On Vehicles. In a bid to end the rampant VIP culture in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi government has decided to pull them off from VIP cars. According to a government decision taken on Wednesday only five constitutional posts, namely the President, Vice President, Prime Minister, Chief Justice of India and the Speaker of Lok Sabha will be allowed to use the red beacons on their vehicles from May 1. This means that all others including union and state ministers, judges, bureaucrats who have use red beacons on their cars will have to remove them. The move is in line with the Modi government's idea of ending the VIP culture in India. Earlier, in 2013, the Supreme Court had also directed the government to crack down on the rampant misuse of it. The Transport ministry had made the proposal almost one-and-a-half years ago and the decision was taken after consultation with various stakeholders. Recently the Punjab and UP governments had announced the ban on the use of red beacon on all vehicles barring those belonging to a few high dignitaries. “It is a regressive symbol which should have no place in a progressive society like ours, where accessibility is an important criterion in gauging the popularity of any leader,” Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had said.

In a bid to end the rampant VIP culture in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi government has decided to pull them off from VIP cars.

BCCL/ Representative Image

According to a government decision taken on Wednesday only five constitutional posts, namely the President, Vice President, Prime Minister, Chief Justice of India and the Speaker of Lok Sabha will be allowed to use the red beacons on their vehicles from May 1.

This means that all others including union and state ministers, judges, bureaucrats who have use red beacons on their cars will have to remove them.

Representative Image

The move is in line with the Modi government's idea of ending the VIP culture in India. Earlier, in 2013, the Supreme Court had also directed the government to crack down on the rampant misuse of it.

The Transport ministry had made the proposal almost one-and-a-half years ago and the decision was taken after consultation with various stakeholders.

BCCL/ Representative Image

Recently the Punjab and UP governments had announced the ban on the use of red beacon on all vehicles barring those belonging to a few high dignitaries.

“It is a regressive symbol which should have no place in a progressive society like ours, where accessibility is an important criterion in gauging the popularity of any leader,” Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had said.

Don't Miss 2.8 K SHARES 71.6 K SHARES 54 K SHARES 26.9 K SHARES