His Brother Kept Mocking And Disturbing His Sleep, So He Hacked Him To Pieces In Full Public View
His Brother Kept Mocking & Disturbing His Sleep, So He Hacked Him To Pieces In Full Public View
His Brother Kept Mocking And Disturbing His Sleep, So He Hacked Him To Pieces In Full Public View What is the price of disrupting someone's sleep? Apparently it is life! A man hacked his elder brother to pieces, because he was making noise  and playfully mocking him as he slept. The incident happened in Chhattisgarh's Dondilohara in Balod district on Tuesday when Suresh Kumar dragged his brother, Chinturam, 45, out of the house in the afternoon, tied him to an electric pole and chopped off his hands and then his head with an axe. All these in full public view in the village square. Suresh who suffered a head injury and one of his fingers was chopped in the scuffle later walked to at Mangchuwa police station with the blood-smeared axe and surrendered himself. According to locals, Chinturam, who had a high-pitched voice, would often sing to mock his younger brother, resulting in regular fights between the two. According to the family, the brothers were sleeping in the same room on Tuesday, when Chinturam started singing, which infuriated Suresh who started beating his sibling. In desperation, Chinturam grabbed an axe to scare off his brother, but Suresh overpowered him, snatched the axe and dragged him to the village square where he tied him to a pole. The commotion brought all the villagers to the scene, but Suresh threatened to kill anyone who intervened, police said.

What is the price of disrupting someone's sleep? Apparently it is life! A man hacked his elder brother to pieces, because he was making noise and playfully mocking him as he slept.

BCCL/ Representative Image

The incident happened in Chhattisgarh's Dondilohara in Balod district on Tuesday when Suresh Kumar dragged his brother, Chinturam, 45, out of the house in the afternoon, tied him to an electric pole and chopped off his hands and then his head with an axe.

All these in full public view in the village square.

Suresh who suffered a head injury and one of his fingers was chopped in the scuffle later walked to at Mangchuwa police station with the blood-smeared axe and surrendered himself.

According to locals, Chinturam, who had a high-pitched voice, would often sing to mock his younger brother, resulting in regular fights between the two.

Representational Image

According to the family, the brothers were sleeping in the same room on Tuesday, when Chinturam started singing, which infuriated Suresh who started beating his sibling.

In desperation, Chinturam grabbed an axe to scare off his brother, but Suresh overpowered him, snatched the axe and dragged him to the village square where he tied him to a pole. The commotion brought all the villagers to the scene, but Suresh threatened to kill anyone who intervened, police said.

With TNN inputs