Airbnb: NSW Government gives qualified support to lifting bans on short-term rentals



Airbnb: NSW Government gives qualified support to lifting bans on short-term rentals

Updated

Airbnb is one step closer to getting the green light throughout New South Wales after the State Government gave qualified support to a parliamentary inquiry's recommendation to allow short-term rentals.

Airbnb has more than 40,000 listings throughout New South Wales, but regulation varies from council to council, with bans existing in some.

The NSW Government gave qualified support to nine of the 12 recommendations handed down by the Inquiry into the Adequacy of Regulation for Short-Term Holiday Letting, with the other three recommendations given full support.

The NSW Government response gave qualified support to allowing short-term rental accommodation under the State Environmental Planning Policy, adding that an options paper would be released for consultation with the public and industry.

Consultations to take place around regulation: Government

Airbnb's country manager for Australia and New Zealand Sam McDonagh welcomed the response, and said further regulation would ensure certainty for the company's customers across the state.

"More than 83 per cent of the homes that are shared on Airbnb are the homes that people live in, we know that 76 per cent of all Airbnb listings are outside hotel districts," he said.

"We'll continue to provide information to regulators and stakeholders so that we can come up with an informed decision and regulations."

Mr McDonagh said Airbnb would support any moves by the Government to crack down on bad behaviour.

Tourism Accommodation Australia chief executive Carol Giuseppi said she was pleased the Government was giving the issue further consideration.

"They recognised that because of its complexity they need to weigh the benefits against the far-reaching and potentially negative consequences," she said.

"We definitely feel that while there was extensive reference in terms of amenity issues, it didn't deal with other sorts of issues like employment, insurance and taxation requirements."

Negative impacts need consideration: Hotel sector

Ms Giuseppi said while the sharing economy had been shown to be profitable, it was still not as important as mainstream accommodation services.

"When you look at it in the context of the contribution of the commercial accommodation sector which contributes $4.4 billion in consumption, $2.3 billion in economic contribution and directly and indirectly employs over 80,000 people across NSW that contribution pales," she said.

But Mr McDonagh said Airbnb was not competing with mainstream hotels.

"The vast majority of listings in NSW are located outside of traditional hotel districts," he said.

"It means Airbnb guests spend money in neighbourhood cafes, shops and restaurants."

Topics: housing, house-and-home, lifestyle, government-and-politics, nsw

First posted