Alec Baldwin Gives Stephen Colbert Trump Impression Tips
Alec Baldwin Gives Stephen Colbert Trump Impression Tips
We've seen a good bit of Alec Baldwin on in recent months, thanks to his ability to master the art of the Trump impression. On Tuesday's , Baldwin broke down his creative process and revealed the impression has resulted in more on-the-streets feedback than any of his previous roles. "It's amazing," Baldwin told Stephen Colbert on Tuesday's show after the host told him he had "cracked" the difficult impression. "It's kind of eerie actually that more than anything I've ever done, people come up to me and say something to me on the streets." The incessant public feedback, Baldwin added, has become an annoyance to his and Hilaria's three-year-old daughter Carmen. "At , they're always coaching you," Baldwin said of being convinced to do the impression. "I was gonna go do a movie this past summer, and Lorne would say, 'I want you to come and do Trump on the show.'" Once that film obligation fell apart, Baldwin gave Lorne a call and put the Trump impression in motion. The secret, Baldwin explained, is to select a few mannerisms and commit to them. "It's totally a caricature," he said. "You know, you just pick a few things. Like, I'm sitting in the room and I'm going, left eyebrow up, right eyebrow down. Shove your face out like you're trying to suck the chrome off the fender of a car." In March, Baldwin told Mario Lopez on that he may not be doing the Trump thing much longer. "The maliciousness of this White House has people worried," Baldwin said. "That's why I'm not going to do it much longer, the impersonation. I don't know how much more people can take it."

We've seen a good bit of Alec Baldwin on Saturday Night Live in recent months, thanks to his ability to master the art of the Trump impression. On Tuesday's Late Show, Baldwin broke down his creative process and revealed the impression has resulted in more on-the-streets feedback than any of his previous roles.

"It's amazing," Baldwin told Stephen Colbert on Tuesday's show after the host told him he had "cracked" the difficult impression. "It's kind of eerie actually that more than anything I've ever done, people come up to me and say something to me on the streets." The incessant public feedback, Baldwin added, has become an annoyance to his and Hilaria's three-year-old daughter Carmen.

"At SNL, they're always coaching you," Baldwin said of being convinced to do the impression. "I was gonna go do a movie this past summer, and Lorne would say, 'I want you to come and do Trump on the show.'" Once that film obligation fell apart, Baldwin gave Lorne a call and put the Trump impression in motion.

The secret, Baldwin explained, is to select a few mannerisms and commit to them. "It's totally a caricature," he said. "You know, you just pick a few things. Like, I'm sitting in the room and I'm going, left eyebrow up, right eyebrow down. Shove your face out like you're trying to suck the chrome off the fender of a car."

In March, Baldwin told Mario Lopez on Extra that he may not be doing the Trump thing much longer. "The maliciousness of this White House has people worried," Baldwin said. "That's why I'm not going to do it much longer, the impersonation. I don't know how much more people can take it."