Prince Left Behind a Treasure Trove to See at Paisley Park
Prince Left Behind a Treasure Trove to See at Paisley Park
Prince Left Behind a Treasure Trove to See at Paisley Park  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  The seven-time Grammy Award-winning musician would "seemingly hang onto everything." One visit to the sprawling Minnesota recording complex that Prince called home may not be enough. Paisley Park, in the Minneapolis suburb of Chanhassen, opened as a museum in October, just six months after the "Purple Rain" megastar died there of a painkiller overdose. Prince left behind more than 7,000 artifacts, including costumes and shoes, and more than 121 guitars and instruments. Paisley Park spokesman Mitch Maguire said the Oscar- and seven-time Grammy Award-winning musician did archivists a favor because he would "seemingly hang onto everything." That allows the museum to switch archival pieces out, so fans coming back for tours will have a new experience.  Among the items planned for future exhibits are the red wool hat Prince wore during an all-star jam at the 2004 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony and a blue Stratocaster guitar Prince played during part of his legendary 2007 Super Bowl halftime show. A four-day celebration of Prince will be held April 20-23 at Paisley Park during the anniversary of his death.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

The seven-time Grammy Award-winning musician would "seemingly hang onto everything."

One visit to the sprawling Minnesota recording complex that Prince called home may not be enough.

Paisley Park, in the Minneapolis suburb of Chanhassen, opened as a museum in October, just six months after the "Purple Rain" megastar died there of a painkiller overdose. Prince left behind more than 7,000 artifacts, including costumes and shoes, and more than 121 guitars and instruments.

Paisley Park spokesman Mitch Maguire said the Oscar- and seven-time Grammy Award-winning musician did archivists a favor because he would "seemingly hang onto everything." That allows the museum to switch archival pieces out, so fans coming back for tours will have a new experience.

Among the items planned for future exhibits are the red wool hat Prince wore during an all-star jam at the 2004 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony and a blue Stratocaster guitar Prince played during part of his legendary 2007 Super Bowl halftime show.

A four-day celebration of Prince will be held April 20-23 at Paisley Park during the anniversary of his death.