Florida Senator Apologizes for Using Racial Slurs to Colleagues, Removed as Committee Chair
State Senator from Miami Apologizes for Using Racial Slurs
Florida Senator Apologizes for Using Racial Slurs to Colleagues, Removed as Committee Chair By Brendan Farrington

Florida Sen. Frank Artiles apologizes after he used a variation of the "n-word" at Democratic Sens. Audrey Gibson and Perry Thurston.

A Florida state senator is under fire for using racial slurs and insults in a private after-hours conversation with African-American colleagues.

Miami-area Republican Sen. Frank Artiles used a variation of the "n-word" at Democratic Sens. Audrey Gibson and Perry Thurston on Monday night at Tallahassee's members-only Governors Club. Gibson said it was the most disrespect she has ever encountered.

State Senator Apologizes For Using N-Word to Other Senators

Sen. Frank Artiles has been removed from his chairmanship after apologizing to the full senate Wendesday. (Published 5 hours ago)

Artiles gave the three-minute apology on the Senate floor as the chamber began its business for the day on Wednesday.

"I extend a heartfelt apology to my colleagues and to all of those I have offended," Artiles said. "My harsh words have adversely reflected more on me than they could ever have on anyone else."

Just before the apology, Senate President Joe Negron replaced Artiles as chairman of the state's Communications, Energy and Public Utilities Committee.

Artiles first apologized Tuesday afternoon, after Negron was told about the incident. But the Florida Democratic Party is still calling on Artiles to resign.

'Goat Yoga' Taking Health World by Storm

It's a new medical trend where anything goes as humans get healthy while surrounded by barnyard creatures. (Published Wednesday, April 19, 2017)

“Senator Artiles appears to have an issue with people who don’t look like him, who don’t think like him, and who don’t act like him," Sen. Oscar Braynon II said. “To simply say 'I’m sorry,' might work if this were the first affront, but it’s not. He’s attacked Muslims with the same fervor he’s now demeaning African Americans, and it cannot stand."

Artiles, a Cuban-American, is a former state House member who was elected to the Senate in November.

In his apology he said that his use of the racial slur wasn't directed at anyone in particular.

"I grew up in a diverse community. We share each other's customs, cultures and vernacular," Artiles said. "I realize that my position does not allow me for the looseness of words or slang, regardless of how benign my intentions were."

Former UF, NFL Star Aaron Hernandez Kills Himself in Mass. Jail

NBC 6's Steve Litz has more, including the former tight end's ties to Florida and the South Florida region. (Published 5 hours ago)

The Black Caucus plans to meet Wednesday and address the media in the afternoon.

AP writers Gary Fineout and Ana Ceballos contributed to this report.

Copyright Associated Press / NBC 6 South Florida