Sonu Nigam Shaves His Head Off, Kapil Sharma & Sunil Grover To Appear On A Show & More From Ent
Sonu Nigam Shaves His Head Off, Kapil Sharma & Sunil Grover To Appear On A Show & More From Ent
Sonu Nigam Shaves His Head Off, Kapil Sharma & Sunil Grover To Appear On A Show & More From Ent 1. Post 'Azaan' Tweet & A Fatwa, Sonu Nigam Shaves His Head Off To Prove He's Not Anti-Muslim Sonu Nigam had tweeted about accepting the Muslim cleric’s challenge and guess what? He indeed shaved off his head and that too on live Television. A Kolkata-based cleric, who issued a Fatwa and announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh to anybody who would shave off Sonu's head and garland him with shoes. Sonu Nigam also addressed the media and expressed his views firmly. He clarified how he raised a social topic and not a religious one when he tweeted about being woken up by the sound of azaan. 2. Kapil Sharma & Sunil Grover Will Appear On A Reality Show , But Not In The Same Episode! Rumours are widespread that Kapil Sharma and Sunil Grover are appearing on the same show – Sabse Bada Kalakar – a kids reality show being judged by Raveena Tandon, Boman Irani and Arshad Warsi. However, it turns out that Kapil and Sunil will not share the screen space as they will appear in two different episodes. 3. The Internet Has Turned This Old Photo Of Hema Malini Into Some Really Giggle-Worthy Memes ! Remember how one scene from the Dangal trailer turned into series of funny memes? From a scene from Half Girlfriend trailer to a scene from Har Dil Jo Pyaar Karega, we have seen it all. And now, Twitter is currently obsessed with an old picture of Hema Malini, where she is seen sulking. 4. KRK Calls Superstar Mohanlal 'Chota Bheem,' Twitter Rips Him To Shreds In a tweet, KRK stated that, to him, Mohanlal looks like ‘Chota Bheem.’ It didn’t end there; he went on to say that he should not be playing the role of Bheem in the much anticipated film – Mahabharta. He said that the investors were simply wasting money by doing so. 5. Is Sunil Grover Finally Returning On The Kapil Sharma Show ? Well, Reports Claim So! Even though Sunil had boycotted the show, the makers made their final attempt for a patch up and looks like they’ve succeeded. If the reports that are doing rounds on the internet are to be believed, Sunil might just be back on the show.

1. Post 'Azaan' Tweet & A Fatwa, Sonu Nigam Shaves His Head Off To Prove He's Not Anti-Muslim

Twitter

Sonu Nigam had tweeted about accepting the Muslim cleric’s challenge and guess what? He indeed shaved off his head and that too on live Television. A Kolkata-based cleric, who issued a Fatwa and announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh to anybody who would shave off Sonu's head and garland him with shoes. Sonu Nigam also addressed the media and expressed his views firmly. He clarified how he raised a social topic and not a religious one when he tweeted about being woken up by the sound of azaan.

2. Kapil Sharma & Sunil Grover Will Appear On A Reality Show, But Not In The Same Episode!

Rumours are widespread that Kapil Sharma and Sunil Grover are appearing on the same show – Sabse Bada Kalakar – a kids reality show being judged by Raveena Tandon, Boman Irani and Arshad Warsi. However, it turns out that Kapil and Sunil will not share the screen space as they will appear in two different episodes.

3. The Internet Has Turned This Old Photo Of Hema Malini Into Some Really Giggle-Worthy Memes!

Twitter

Remember how one scene from the Dangal trailer turned into series of funny memes? From a scene from Half Girlfriend trailer to a scene from Har Dil Jo Pyaar Karega, we have seen it all. And now, Twitter is currently obsessed with an old picture of Hema Malini, where she is seen sulking.

4. KRK Calls Superstar Mohanlal 'Chota Bheem,' Twitter Rips Him To Shreds

In a tweet, KRK stated that, to him, Mohanlal looks like ‘Chota Bheem.’ It didn’t end there; he went on to say that he should not be playing the role of Bheem in the much anticipated film – Mahabharta. He said that the investors were simply wasting money by doing so.

5. Is Sunil Grover Finally Returning On The Kapil Sharma Show? Well, Reports Claim So!

Sony

Even though Sunil had boycotted the show, the makers made their final attempt for a patch up and looks like they’ve succeeded. If the reports that are doing rounds on the internet are to be believed, Sunil might just be back on the show.