Zara Pulls Skirt Featuring Frog That Resembles Alt-Right Meme Pepe
Zara Pulls Skirt Featuring Frog That Resembles Alt-Right Meme Pepe
Zara has pulled a denim frog skirt from its website after a series of tweets drew attention to the design's resemblance to former meme and current hate symbol Pepe the Frog , the  reported Wednesday. Music and fashion Writer Meagan Fredette first brought attention to the embroidered frogs' similarities to Pepe Monday night. Zara is really out there trying to sell a P*pe the frog skirt, apparently unaware (?) of its current implications https://t.co/gQ3bimsdg2 This is bad pic.twitter.com/8a2cbx0T70 "Flirting with racial controversy is not a good business tactic," Fredette told  . By Tuesday, others had started noting the similarities: @ZARA Seriously? Pepe the Frog? Alt Right? That's who your target customers are? Me and my wallet will be shopping elsewhere. Just googled "Zara Pepe the Frog skirt", because this website and 2017 are bad Anyone who's surprised about Zara's Pepe the frog skirt probably doesn't remember this. I do. pic.twitter.com/GDaWmXSJng hmm Pepe on a Zara skirt. wtf? @Dazed  @ZARA Who asked for this? In a statement to British Wednesday, a Zara spokesperson said the design has "no link" to Pepe. "The skirt is part of the limited Oil-On-Denim collection which was created through collaborations with artists and is only available in selected markets," the spokesperson said. "The designer of the skirt is Mario de Santiago, known online as Yimeisgreat. Mario explores social interactions through his work and in his own words: 'The idea came from a wall painting I drew with friends four years ago.' There is absolutely no link to the suggested theme." Or this. Also Zara. pic.twitter.com/cupjvegN1G In 2007, Zara pulled a handbag from stores after complaints it was emblazoned with swastikas. The retailer said it had been unaware of the swastikas, as the original design they approved did not include them. "After the return of one bag, we decided to withdraw the whole range," a spokesperson told  at the time. Pepe was added to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL)'s online hate symbols database in September of last year. As explained in their announcement, Pepe didn't begin with anti-Semitic intentions. "But as the meme proliferated in online venues such as 4chan, 8chan, and Reddit, a subset of memes came into existence promoting anti-Jewish, bigoted, and offensive ideas," an ADL rep said. "And those have spread virally on Twitter, Facebook, and elsewhere." Zara did not immediately respond to Complex's request for comment.

Zara has pulled a denim frog skirt from its website after a series of tweets drew attention to the design's resemblance to former meme and current hate symbol Pepe the Frog, the Guardian reported Wednesday. Music and fashion Writer Meagan Fredette first brought attention to the embroidered frogs' similarities to Pepe Monday night.

Zara is really out there trying to sell a P*pe the frog skirt, apparently unaware (?) of its current implications https://t.co/gQ3bimsdg2 — meagan 🥀 (@meaganrosae) April 18, 2017

"Flirting with racial controversy is not a good business tactic," Fredette told Dazed. By Tuesday, others had started noting the similarities:

@ZARA Seriously? Pepe the Frog? Alt Right? That's who your target customers are? Me and my wallet will be shopping elsewhere. — Gina (@Gina02301885) April 19, 2017

Just googled "Zara Pepe the Frog skirt", because this website and 2017 are bad — kait f (@kaitlfyden) April 18, 2017

Anyone who's surprised about Zara's Pepe the frog skirt probably doesn't remember this. I do. pic.twitter.com/GDaWmXSJng — OhNoSheTwitnt (@OhNoSheTwitnt) April 18, 2017

hmm Pepe on a Zara skirt. wtf? — Chris Carella (@ccarella) April 18, 2017

@Dazed @ZARA Who asked for this? — S h a r i (@shariirose) April 19, 2017

In a statement to British Vogue Wednesday, a Zara spokesperson said the design has "no link" to Pepe. "The skirt is part of the limited Oil-On-Denim collection which was created through collaborations with artists and is only available in selected markets," the spokesperson said. "The designer of the skirt is Mario de Santiago, known online as Yimeisgreat. Mario explores social interactions through his work and in his own words: 'The idea came from a wall painting I drew with friends four years ago.' There is absolutely no link to the suggested theme."

In 2007, Zara pulled a handbag from stores after complaints it was emblazoned with swastikas. The retailer said it had been unaware of the swastikas, as the original design they approved did not include them. "After the return of one bag, we decided to withdraw the whole range," a spokesperson told Reuters at the time.

Pepe was added to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL)'s online hate symbols database in September of last year. As explained in their announcement, Pepe didn't begin with anti-Semitic intentions. "But as the meme proliferated in online venues such as 4chan, 8chan, and Reddit, a subset of memes came into existence promoting anti-Jewish, bigoted, and offensive ideas," an ADL rep said. "And those have spread virally on Twitter, Facebook, and elsewhere."

Zara did not immediately respond to Complex's request for comment.