Scott Pruitt's signature reads as 'penis' and no, we are not exaggerating
Scott Pruitt's signature reads as 'penis' and no, we are not exaggerating
Listen, Scott Pruitt, have a seat, buddy — we NEED to talk about your signature. You were given a gift at birth, a true head start towards signing elegance. Your name is for signing. Double Ts at the end of your first last name? Calligraphers of that combo. Instead, you deliver us this: don't @ us. it looks like "penis." Scott Pruitt, that says "penis." You must have known this was coming, Scott. You brought it upon yourself. SEE ALSO: Queer chef declines being interviewed for Ivanka Trump's website by spitting straight truth Scott, where is the second T? Lots of time (trust us, lots) could be spent analyzing the bastardization of each letter here, but it doesn't matter. Only one thing is clear: Not safe for little eyes! And yet, here we are... This particularly splashy sign off comes from a letter penned by Pruitt, who is Donald Trump's newly appointed head of the EPA, on Tuesday afternoon. The letter announces to the oil and gas industries that the Trump administration is revisiting — and open to changing — an Obama-era rule that clamped down on methane emissions from oil and gas operations. Methane is a powerful greenhouse gas. Twitter was quick to notice the signature's resemblance to The Other P Word: penis. Is it just me, or does Scott Pruitt's signature look like, um, well, not "Pruitt." Or am I a 12-year-old? pic.twitter.com/REtekJCjJi — Andrew Freedman (@afreedma) April 19, 2017 Seriously, it just doesn't say Pruitt. It says . What is this word? pic.twitter.com/fC0SfnUgWQ — Miriam Kramer (@mirikramer) April 19, 2017 Kind of indisputable. Just let your mind go there and enjoy. WATCH: Lady Gaga FaceTimed with Prince William to discuss a very important issue

Listen, Scott Pruitt, have a seat, buddy — we NEED to talk about your signature.

You were given a gift at birth, a true head start towards signing elegance. Your name is built for signing. Double Ts at the end of your first and last name? Calligraphers dream of that combo.

Instead, you deliver us this:

don't @ us. it looks like "penis."

Scott Pruitt, that says "penis."

You must have known this was coming, Scott. You brought it upon yourself.

Scott, where is the second T?

Lots of time (trust us, lots) could be spent analyzing the bastardization of each letter here, but it doesn't matter. Only one thing is clear: it reads "penis." Not safe for little eyes! And yet, here we are...

This particularly splashy sign off comes from a letter penned by Pruitt, who is Donald Trump's newly appointed head of the EPA, on Tuesday afternoon. The letter announces to the oil and gas industries that the Trump administration is revisiting — and open to changing — an Obama-era rule that clamped down on methane emissions from oil and gas operations. Methane is a powerful greenhouse gas.

Twitter was quick to notice the signature's resemblance to The Other P Word: penis.

Is it just me, or does Scott Pruitt's signature look like, um, well, not "Pruitt." Or am I a 12-year-old? pic.twitter.com/REtekJCjJi — Andrew Freedman (@afreedma) April 19, 2017

Seriously, it just doesn't say Pruitt. It says penis.

What is this word? pic.twitter.com/fC0SfnUgWQ — Miriam Kramer (@mirikramer) April 19, 2017

Kind of indisputable. Just let your mind go there and enjoy.