India And China Accounted For 82% Of U.S. H-1B Visas In 2016 [Infographic]
India And China Accounted For 82% Of U.S. H-1B Visas In 2016 [Infographic]
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Niall McCarthy       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. During a visit to a tool factory in Kenosha, Wisc., on Tuesday, President Trump signed an executive order reviewing a temporary visa program that allows companies to fill jobs with "skilled" foreign workers. The H-1B program has become the subject of debate in recent years with Trump criticizing employers for abusing it in order to avoid hiring more expensive American talent. Even though the president is still  intent on fulfilling his campaign pledge to put "America First," this order is relatively modest and falls short of abolishing the H-1B visa altogether. It calls for a multiagency report on necessary reforms to the scheme and it lacks a timeline for the implementation of any changes. The majority of workers admitted to the U.S. under the H-1B program are employed in high-tech, industrial and medical positions. Companies like Facebook, Google, Intel and Microsoft are highly reliant on skilled foreign workers and they will surely breathe a sigh of relief at the limited nature of Tuesday's order. However, if the review ends up impacting the program at some point in the future, those tech giants and skilled workers from the countries on the following infographic will be at greatest risk. According to U.S. State Department data , 82 percent of all H-1B visas issued in 2016 went to India and China. 85,000 H-1B visas are issued every year while 100,000 more are extended or re-issued. Last year, 126,692 of them went to recipients from India, 21,657 were issued to Chinese workers. Mexico rounded out the top three with 2,540. * Statista Origin countries of H-1B visa recipients in 2016 Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

During a visit to a tool factory in Kenosha, Wisc., on Tuesday, President Trump signed an executive order reviewing a temporary visa program that allows companies to fill jobs with "skilled" foreign workers. The H-1B program has become the subject of debate in recent years with Trump criticizing employers for abusing it in order to avoid hiring more expensive American talent.

Even though the president is still intent on fulfilling his campaign pledge to put "America First," this order is relatively modest and falls short of abolishing the H-1B visa altogether. It calls for a multiagency report on necessary reforms to the scheme and it lacks a timeline for the implementation of any changes.

The majority of workers admitted to the U.S. under the H-1B program are employed in high-tech, industrial and medical positions. Companies like Facebook, Google, Intel and Microsoft are highly reliant on skilled foreign workers and they will surely breathe a sigh of relief at the limited nature of Tuesday's order. However, if the review ends up impacting the program at some point in the future, those tech giants and skilled workers from the countries on the following infographic will be at greatest risk.

According to U.S. State Department data, 82 percent of all H-1B visas issued in 2016 went to India and China. 85,000 H-1B visas are issued every year while 100,000 more are extended or re-issued. Last year, 126,692 of them went to recipients from India, 21,657 were issued to Chinese workers. Mexico rounded out the top three with 2,540.

*Click below to enlarge (charted by Statista)