BBC and ITV on collision course with Theresa May as both say that they want to hold televised debates before June 8 general election
BBC and ITV on collision course with Theresa May as both say that they want to hold televised debates before June 8 general election
ritain’s two biggest broadcasters are on a collision course with Theresa May after both said they were willing to go ahead with televised election debates without the Prime Minister. Both the BBC and ITV are keen to organise television debates ahead of the June 8 general election despite the Prime Minister saying she will refuse to take part. The Prime Minister on Wednesday repeatedly ruled out taking part in televised debates . However, her position was increasingly isolated with Opposition party leaders Jeremy Corbyn and Tim Farron both saying they were willing to take part.  onathan Munro, BBC’s Head of Newsgathering, told The Telegraph he did “not want to get in a position where any party leader stops us doing a programme that we think is in the public interest”. Mr Munro added: “There is a proven track record over two elections and two referendums that debates reach huge audiences including a lot of young people who don’t watch conventional political coverage in great numbers. “We think it is very much in their interest that peak time debates go ahead. In 2010 and 2015 the  number of young and first time voters going to the polls was up on previous elections. “We believe there was a relationship between that and the audience the debates pulled in. It helps engagement with hard to reach audiences.”  r Munro also told BBC Radio 4's yesterday there was a “demonstrable case” that televised debates “are squarely in the public interest – they are in the audience’s interest and therefore in the voters’ interest”. e added that Mrs May’s comments “will not stop us working hard to see if we can get some formats for debates into peaktime BBC1 for the major audiences that have come to expect them in the past few years”. A spokesman for ITV said: “ITV will hold a Leaders’ debate as we did in 2010 and 2015. We will announce more details in due course.” No details of format or date have yet been released, but it is expected that Julie Etchingham, the News At 10 presenter, will host the programme, as she did in 2015, when seven leaders including David Cameron, Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg took part in a two-hour showdown. Sky News sources said the broadcaster was considering its approach on the debates. arlier Mrs May formally ruled taking part in televised debates at Prime Minister's Questions. She told the BBC Radio 4’s Today programme: "We won't be doing television debates. “I believe in campaigns where politicians actually get out and about and meet with voters. "That's what I have always believed in, it's what I still believe and I still do it - as Prime Minister, as a constituency MP, I still go out and knock on doors in my constituency. "That's what I believe in doing, that's what I'm going to be doing around this campaign." Mrs May came under fire from the other party leaders at Prime Minister’s Questions. abour leader Jeremy Corbyn told her: "She says it's about leadership, yet is refusing to defend her record in television debates and it's not hard to see why.” iberal Democrat leader Tim Farron accused Mrs May of "bottling" and said broadcasters had a "moral duty" to go ahead with the showdowns even if she fails to take part. Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron added: “The British people deserve to hear party leaders set out their plans and debate them publicly. "The Prime Minister and I, back in 1992, debated publicly, forcibly and amicably when we were both candidates together. “Indeed, the Prime Minister called out the then incumbent who did not show up for some of those debates. “Why will she not publicly debate these issues now - what is she scared of?” NP leader and Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon argued that TV debates should go ahead without Mrs May. Ms Sturgeon tweeted: “If PM doesnt have the confidence to debate her plans on TV with other leaders, broadcasters should empty chair her and go ahead anyway.”

Britain’s two biggest broadcasters are on a collision course with Theresa May after both said they were willing to go ahead with televised election debates without the Prime Minister.

Both the BBC and ITV are keen to organise television debates ahead of the June 8 general election despite the Prime Minister saying she will refuse to take part.

The Prime Minister on Wednesday repeatedly ruled out taking part in televised debates.

However, her position was increasingly isolated with Opposition party leaders Jeremy Corbyn and Tim Farron both saying they were willing to take part.