Mental health org and 'Stranger Things' star send warnings about '13 Reasons Why'
Mental health org and 'Stranger Things' star send warnings about '13 Reasons Why'
The handwringing over Netflix's continues, with an Australian mental health organization and fellow-Netflix cast member who plays 'Barb' from coming out with concerns about the subject matter of the show. Soon after premiered on the streaming site on March 31, the Netflix original sparked a great deal of discussion surrounding sensitive issues such as depression, rape, and suicide. The show retells the suicide of a teenage girl, Hannah (Katherine Langford), through cassette tapes she left behind. According to , on Tuesday,  Australian mental health organization Headspace issued a warning about the series, referring to it as "dangerous content" and claiming it has sparked an alarming increase in calls and emails. SEE ALSO: The important reason why Selena Gomez and the cast of '13 Reasons Why' got matching tattoos Kristen Douglas, the national manager of Headspace school support, told she "received a growing numbers of calls and emails directly related to the program," including several from schools and parents who expressed their concern about the show and the impact it could have on young adults. Even if you're in the right headspace, be careful watching 13 Reasons Why. It's a good warning story but there are a lot triggering scenes. — (((bee mom))) (@annalisebraves) April 3, 2017 The series is based on a novel by Jay Asher, and though several of the MA15+ rated episodes are preceded by warnings for graphic content, it's impossible to know just how heavy the 13 episodes will be for each individual watching. On Monday and Tuesday, Shannon Purser, who plays Barb from Netflix's joined the conversation, sending out several tweets advising her followers to consider steering clear of the show to avoid being triggered. Purser, who has openly discussed her struggles with depression and self-harm in the past, said that while she sees how the content could be helpful for some people, the episode warnings should not be taken lightly. I would advise against watching 13 Reasons Why if you currently struggle with suicidal thoughts or self harm/have undergone sexual assault. — Shannon Purser (@shannonpurser) April 18, 2017 There are some very graphic scenes in there that could easily trigger painful memories and feelings. Please protect yourselves. — Shannon Purser (@shannonpurser) April 18, 2017 There are lots of really good things about the show and I have no doubts that it is important and could be helpful to some. Just be careful. — Shannon Purser (@shannonpurser) April 18, 2017 Douglas also explained her fear that the detailed, "risky suicide content" could lead to "a distressing reaction" from viewers,  and explained it's crucial that the depiction of suicide not be treated like other deaths or "oversimplified" by implying one issue, such as being bullied, can be the root cause. "It's not like car crashes or cancer, irresponsible reporting of suicide can lead to further death," she said. "National and international research clearly indicates the very real impact and risk to harmful suicide exposure leading to increased risk and possible suicide contagion." Dr. Steven Leicester, head of Headspace, added, "There is a responsibility for broadcasters to know what they are showing and the impact that certain content can have on an audience — and on a young audience in particular." As reported, Australia has strict guidelines on suicide depiction, which were not necessarily in line with those the American media used in creating this program. Though received some serious praise from critics, Headspace and Purser were definitely not the first to show concern for the show. A article titled, " Is Not the Force for Mental Health Awareness People Say It Is," examines why the show may not have the positive awareness-raising effect that was intended, and another powerful article written for looks at things from a parent's point of view — a parent whose teen had already survived a suicide attempt in the past. Netflix included "Beyond the Reasons," a special behind-the-scenes featurette with the cast and creators discussing why they felt that showing footage of the character Hannah's suicide was necessary, as well as resources for people who feel they might need help. "We wanted to do it in a way where it was honest, and we wanted to make something that can hopefully help people, because suicide should never, ever be an option," executive producer Selena Gomez said in the featurette . Since the show premiered, Gomez and two cast members, Alisha Boe and Tommy Dorfman, got matching black semi colon tattoos — a symbol for mental health awareness and suicide prevention. An email request for comment from was not immediately returned. WATCH: Lady Gaga to film 'Star is Born' movie scenes at Coachella

The handwringing over Netflix's 13 Reasons Why continues, with an Australian mental health organization and fellow-Netflix cast member who plays 'Barb' from Stranger Things coming out with concerns about the subject matter of the show.

Soon after 13 Reasons Why premiered on the streaming site on March 31, the Netflix original sparked a great deal of discussion surrounding sensitive issues such as depression, rape, and suicide. The show retells the suicide of a teenage girl, Hannah (Katherine Langford), through cassette tapes she left behind.

According to Huffington Post Australia, on Tuesday, Australian mental health organization Headspace issued a warning about the series, referring to it as "dangerous content" and claiming it has sparked an alarming increase in calls and emails.

Kristen Douglas, the national manager of Headspace school support, told Huffington Post Australia she "received a growing numbers of calls and emails directly related to the program," including several from schools and parents who expressed their concern about the show and the impact it could have on young adults.

Even if you're in the right headspace, be careful watching 13 Reasons Why. It's a good warning story but there are a lot triggering scenes. — (((bee mom))) (@annalisebraves) April 3, 2017

The series is based on a novel by Jay Asher, and though several of the MA15+ rated episodes are preceded by warnings for graphic content, it's impossible to know just how heavy the 13 episodes will be for each individual watching.

On Monday and Tuesday, Shannon Purser, who plays Barb from Netflix's Stranger Things joined the 13 Reasons conversation, sending out several tweets advising her followers to consider steering clear of the show to avoid being triggered.

Purser, who has openly discussed her struggles with depression and self-harm in the past, said that while she sees how the content could be helpful for some people, the episode warnings should not be taken lightly.

I would advise against watching 13 Reasons Why if you currently struggle with suicidal thoughts or self harm/have undergone sexual assault. — Shannon Purser (@shannonpurser) April 18, 2017

There are some very graphic scenes in there that could easily trigger painful memories and feelings. Please protect yourselves. — Shannon Purser (@shannonpurser) April 18, 2017

There are lots of really good things about the show and I have no doubts that it is important and could be helpful to some. Just be careful. — Shannon Purser (@shannonpurser) April 18, 2017

Douglas also explained her fear that the detailed, "risky suicide content" could lead to "a distressing reaction" from viewers, and explained it's crucial that the depiction of suicide not be treated like other deaths or "oversimplified" by implying one issue, such as being bullied, can be the root cause. "It's not like car crashes or cancer, irresponsible reporting of suicide can lead to further death," she said. "National and international research clearly indicates the very real impact and risk to harmful suicide exposure leading to increased risk and possible suicide contagion."

Dr. Steven Leicester, head of Headspace, added, "There is a responsibility for broadcasters to know what they are showing and the impact that certain content can have on an audience — and on a young audience in particular."

As Huffington Post Australia reported, Australia has strict guidelines on suicide depiction, which were not necessarily in line with those the American media used in creating this program.

Though 13 Reasons Why received some serious praise from critics, Headspace and Purser were definitely not the first to show concern for the show.

A Self article titled, "13 Reasons Why Is Not the Force for Mental Health Awareness People Say It Is," examines why the show may not have the positive awareness-raising effect that was intended, and another powerful article written for The Establishment looks at things from a parent's point of view — a parent whose teen had already survived a suicide attempt in the past.

Netflix included "Beyond the Reasons," a special behind-the-scenes featurette with the cast and creators discussing why they felt that showing footage of the character Hannah's suicide was necessary, as well as resources for people who feel they might need help.

"We wanted to do it in a way where it was honest, and we wanted to make something that can hopefully help people, because suicide should never, ever be an option," executive producer Selena Gomez said in the featurette.

Since the show premiered, Gomez and two cast members, Alisha Boe and Tommy Dorfman, got matching black semi colon tattoos — a symbol for mental health awareness and suicide prevention.

An email request for comment from 13 Reasons Why was not immediately returned.

If you want to talk to someone or are experiencing suicidal thoughts, text the Crisis Text Line at 741-741 or call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. For international resources, this list is a good place to start.