Juno Awards Switching Networks After 16 Years on CTV
Juno Awards Switching Networks After 16 Years on CTV
Juno Awards Switching Networks After 16 Years on CTV  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  After 16 years with CTV, The Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (CARAS) has signed an exclusive six-year exclusive broadcast partnership with the nation's pubcaster CBC. "We are excited to embark on our partnership with the CBC," ,Â president andÂ CEO, CARAS/The Juno AwardsÂ andÂ MusiCounts, said in a press statement.Â "As we look forward to this new chapter, we also want to thank CTV for their extensive support over the past 16 years. They have been an invaluable partner in growing the JunosÂ to the national celebration that we know today." Reid has helmed CARAS since 2015.Â CBC broadcast the Junos prior to CTV. Â The 47th annual JunoÂ Awards will be broadcast live on CBC from Rogers Arena on March 25, 2018, following JunoWeek which begins March 19.  There are also plans for CBC to work with CARAS on additional music programming and events throughout the year, and cover a diverse range of music genres, according to the press release. It will also invest in educational programs to support up-and-coming musicians. Details will be announced at a later date. "As our official broadcaster, their vision to wrap themselves with ongoing Juno programming throughout the year, aligns with our continued efforts to elevate the Juno experience engaging Canadians from coast to coast to coast,"Â Reid added. "By bringing the JUNOS back to Canada's public broadcaster and investing in new music programming initiatives, we're furthering our commitment to make CBC the home for Canadian music all year round," said Heather Conway, executive vice-president, CBC English services, said in a statement.  , the former Universal Music Canada president who now heads Bell Media, which owns CTV, said, "We are extremely proud of the role Bell Media has played over the past 16 years in elevating The JUNO Awards and its broadcast into a spectacle watched by millions of Canadians."  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

After 16 years with CTV, The Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (CARAS) has signed an exclusive six-year exclusive broadcast partnership with the nation's pubcaster CBC.

"We are excited to embark on our partnership with the CBC," Allan Reid,Â president andÂ CEO, CARAS/The Juno AwardsÂ andÂ MusiCounts, said in a press statement.Â "As we look forward to this new chapter, we also want to thank CTV for their extensive support over the past 16 years. They have been an invaluable partner in growing the JunosÂ to the national celebration that we know today."

Reid has helmed CARAS since 2015.Â CBC broadcast the Junos prior to CTV. Â The 47th annual JunoÂ Awards will be broadcast live on CBC from Rogers Arena on March 25, 2018, following JunoWeek which begins March 19.

There are also plans for CBC to work with CARAS on additional music programming and events throughout the year, and cover a diverse range of music genres, according to the press release. It will also invest in educational programs to support up-and-coming musicians. Details will be announced at a later date.

"As our official broadcaster, their vision to wrap themselves with ongoing Juno programming throughout the year, aligns with our continued efforts to elevate the Juno experience engaging Canadians from coast to coast to coast,"Â Reid added.

"By bringing the JUNOS back to Canada's public broadcaster and investing in new music programming initiatives, we're furthering our commitment to make CBC the home for Canadian music all year round," said Heather Conway, executive vice-president, CBC English services, said in a statement.

Randy Lennox, the former Universal Music Canada president who now heads Bell Media, which owns CTV, said, "We are extremely proud of the role Bell Media has played over the past 16 years in elevating The JUNO Awards and its broadcast into a spectacle watched by millions of Canadians."