Watch Ricky Martin Recreate Tom Cruise's 'Risky Business' Underwear Scene on 'Lip Sync Battle'
Watch Ricky Martin Recreate Tom Cruise's 'Risky Business' Underwear Scene on 'Lip Sync Battle'
Watch Ricky Martin Recreate Tom Cruise's 'Risky Business' Underwear Scene on 'Lip Sync Battle'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Ricky Martin is giving (and nearly baring) his all in an effort to beat Kate Upton onÂ .Â In a preview clip of the episode airing Thursday (April 20), Martin takes on Bob Seger's "Old Time Rock n Roll," and recreated Tom Cruise's famous scene featuring the song -- underwear and all. Â Sliding onto the stage in socks, boxer briefs and a collared shirt, Martin nails every move, as well as every lyric in his lip-syncing. He even uses a candlestick like the one Cruise used as a microphoneÂ in the scene. Because the clip shows only 20 seconds of Martin's performance, it's unclear whether he'll perform the entire scene down to the air guitar and floor splits, but he definitely puts forth a valiant effort as it is.  Martin's opponent Upton also recreates an iconic vid for her performance , lip-syncing to Britney Spears' "...Baby One More Time." Dressed as schoolgirl Spears, Upton dances just like the pop singer did in her video, and puts up quite the fight against Martin'sÂ Â reenactment. As for who should win, heck, it could really go either way.Â Watch a clip of Martin's performance below: The full episode, hosted by ChrissyÂ Teigen andÂ LL Cool J, airs Thursday (Apr. 20) at 10 p.m. ET on Spike.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Ricky Martin is giving (and nearly baring) his all in an effort to beat Kate Upton onÂ Lip Sync Battle.Â In a preview clip of the episode airing Thursday (April 20), Martin takes on Bob Seger's "Old Time Rock n Roll," and recreated Tom Cruise's famous Risky Business scene featuring the song -- underwear and all. Â

Sliding onto the stage in socks, boxer briefs and a collared shirt, Martin nails every move, as well as every lyric in his lip-syncing. He even uses a candlestick like the one Cruise used as a microphoneÂ in the scene. Because the clip shows only 20 seconds of Martin's performance, it's unclear whether he'll perform the entire scene down to the air guitar and floor splits, but he definitely puts forth a valiant effort as it is.

Martin's opponent Upton also recreates an iconic vid for her performance, lip-syncing to Britney Spears' "...Baby One More Time." Dressed as schoolgirl Spears, Upton dances just like the pop singer did in her video, and puts up quite the fight against Martin'sÂ Risky BusinessÂ reenactment. As for who should win, heck, it could really go either way.Â

Watch a clip of Martin's performance below:

The full episode, hosted by ChrissyÂ Teigen andÂ LL Cool J, airs Thursday (Apr. 20) at 10 p.m. ET on Spike.