VP Mike Pence: US not seeking North Korea negotiations
Pence: US not seeking North Korea negotiations
Shares               The United States is not seeking to negotiate with North Korea and it is not in direct talks "at this time" with the rogue Asian nation, Vice President Mike Pence told CNN and the Washington Post Wednesday. "I think the path of negotiations with North Korea has been a colossal failure now for more than 25 years," Pence told the Washington Post. "We believe that through discussions and negotiations among nations apart from North Korea that we may well be able to bring the kind of economic and diplomatic pressure that would result in North Korea finally abandoning its nuclear ambitions and its ballistic missile program."     In a separate interview with CNN, the vice president said that "the only thing we need to hear from North Korea is that they are ending and ultimately dismantling their nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles program. During last year's presidential campaign , President Donald Trump said he'd be willing to speak with Kim Jong Un , but when asked Wednesday if there would be any direct negotiations Pence said "not at this time." Tensions between the two nations have been fraught throughout Trump's presidency of almost three months. In that time span, North Korea has engaged in at least five missile tests, the most recent of which resulted in failure this past weekend. Pence made a surprise visit to the Demilitarized Zone separating North and South Korea Monday where he declared the "era of strategic patience" with North Korea to be over. Shares                  Pence: US not seeking North Korea negotiations   Tillerson says Iran nuclear deal is same 'failed approach' that led to North Korea   Democratic Party rides coattails of Bernie Sanders' popularity   Trump administration will review Iran nuclear deal despite compliance   5 takeaways from new book about Hillary Clinton's failed campaign   Syria moved aircraft out of US-bombed airstrip to Russian base   ANALYSIS: Georgia special election result lets both sides claim victory   What to watch for next in the Georgia special election   NFL star offers to help WH press secretary during briefing   President George HW Bush under observation at Houston hospital   How Jon Ossoff became the insurgent candidate in Georgia's special election   House Oversight Chairman Chaffetz won't seek re-election   Bill O'Reilly out at Fox News amid sexual misconduct allegations   Arkansas suffers 2 setbacks to multiple execution plan   Police look to uncover judge's movements before death   Brave beaver herds confused cattle in Canada   Tax refund vacations: 8 alluring trips   Luxurious New York City mansion on the market for $84.5 million   Starbucks calls shifting-color drink a Unicorn Frappuccino   Clock tower over the Trump hotel quietly reopens for tours   Stay-at-home dad leaves hilarious Post-its around house for his wife

The United States is not seeking to negotiate with North Korea and it is not in direct talks "at this time" with the rogue Asian nation, Vice President Mike Pence told CNN and the Washington Post Wednesday.

"I think the path of negotiations with North Korea has been a colossal failure now for more than 25 years," Pence told the Washington Post. "We believe that through discussions and negotiations among nations apart from North Korea that we may well be able to bring the kind of economic and diplomatic pressure that would result in North Korea finally abandoning its nuclear ambitions and its ballistic missile program."

In a separate interview with CNN, the vice president said that "the only thing we need to hear from North Korea is that they are ending and ultimately dismantling their nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles program.

During last year's presidential campaign, President Donald Trump said he'd be willing to speak with Kim Jong Un, but when asked Wednesday if there would be any direct negotiations Pence said "not at this time."

Tensions between the two nations have been fraught throughout Trump's presidency of almost three months. In that time span, North Korea has engaged in at least five missile tests, the most recent of which resulted in failure this past weekend.

Pence made a surprise visit to the Demilitarized Zone separating North and South Korea Monday where he declared the "era of strategic patience" with North Korea to be over.