Trolls are lashing out at Christian Bale's new movie before it even premieres
Trolls are lashing out at Christian Bale's new movie before it even premieres
Christian Bale's newest movie is getting hit hard on movie rating site IMDb , because not everyone is down with its portrayal of the Ottoman (now Turkish) government's 1915 mass killings of Armenians. But with an entire section of the movie's site devoted to spreading the message about the Armenian genocide and other mass killings, the Turkish community is pushing back against SEE ALSO: Researchers discover how normal people (like you) become internet trolls A Turkish online forum similar to 4chan organized a ratings attack on the yet-to-be released film, according to the Before its Friday release, it was already at a 5.3 out of 10 rating with almost 50 percent of the 123,212 ratings cast as a low "1." The movie, co-starring Oscar Isaac and Charlotte Le Bon, is described as taking place in the crumbling Ottoman Empire amid "war-torn chaos." Turkey doesn't recognize the mass killings of 1.5 million Armenians as genocide — even though dozens of nations around the world call it such. noticed the ratings trolling began immediately after the film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival last fall. The fact that the film's release lines up with Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day on Monday only adds extra fodder to the Turkish backlash against the film. With so much controversy over terminology and the film's topic, IMDb page is probably not the best place to get a sense of the film's quality. WATCH: 'Outlander' Season 3 teaser trailer will make you believe in love again

Christian Bale's newest movie is getting hit hard on movie rating site IMDb, because not everyone is down with its portrayal of the Ottoman (now Turkish) government's 1915 mass killings of Armenians.

But with an entire section of the movie's site devoted to spreading the message about the Armenian genocide and other mass killings, the Turkish community is pushing back against The Promise.

A Turkish online forum similar to 4chan organized a ratings attack on the yet-to-be released film, according to the Washington Post. Before its Friday release, it was already at a 5.3 out of 10 rating with almost 50 percent of the 123,212 ratings cast as a low "1."

The movie, co-starring Oscar Isaac and Charlotte Le Bon, is described as taking place in the crumbling Ottoman Empire amid "war-torn chaos."

Turkey doesn't recognize the mass killings of 1.5 million Armenians as genocide — even though dozens of nations around the world call it such.

The Hollywood Reporter noticed the ratings trolling began immediately after the film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival last fall. The fact that the film's release lines up with Armenian Genocide Remembrance Day on Monday only adds extra fodder to the Turkish backlash against the film.

With so much controversy over terminology and the film's topic, The Promise's IMDb page is probably not the best place to get a sense of the film's quality.