Aaron Hernandez Reportedly Wrote "John 3:16" on His Forehead Before Committing Suicide
Aaron Hernandez Reportedly Wrote "John 3:16" on His Forehead Before Committing Suicide
More details are emerging following  Wednesday morning prison cell suicide , as news leaks out from the investigation into his death. The newest development is that Hernandez is said to have written "John 3:16" on his forehead before killing himself. While some people have reported that Hernandez wrote the message in his own blood, it was actually inked onto his face with "blood red marker": #BREAKING : Sources clarify John 3:16 was written on #AaronHernandez forehead with "blood red marker." #fox25  @fox25news Source tells @Bward3 "John 3:16" was written on #AaronHernandez 's forehead & left bible open to that verse. That very famous verse says "For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life." Investigators are also looking into the possibility that Hernandez smoked synthetic pot before hanging himself with a bed sheet: #BREAKING : Investigators looking at possibility Hernandez smoked synthetic marijuana before committing suicide in his cell #WBZ It is being reported that there was blood smeared on Hernandez's cell walls: #BREAKING : Sources tell @fox25news there was blood on the walls in #AaronHernandez cell. #fox25 Expect more details to emerge in the coming weeks.

More details are emerging following ex-Patriots tight end Aaron Hernandez' Wednesday morning prison cell suicide, as news leaks out from the investigation into his death. The newest development is that Hernandez is said to have written "John 3:16" on his forehead before killing himself. While some people have reported that Hernandez wrote the message in his own blood, it was actually inked onto his face with "blood red marker":

Source tells @Bward3 "John 3:16" was written on #AaronHernandez's forehead & left bible open to that verse. — Heather Hegedus (@HeatherHegedus) April 19, 2017

That very famous verse says "For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life." Investigators are also looking into the possibility that Hernandez smoked synthetic pot before hanging himself with a bed sheet:

#BREAKING: Investigators looking at possibility Hernandez smoked synthetic marijuana before committing suicide in his cell #WBZ — Meagan Kolkmann (@MeaganKolkmann) April 19, 2017

It is being reported that there was blood smeared on Hernandez's cell walls:

Expect more details to emerge in the coming weeks.