Lloyd Rayney defamation trial: Sex attacker boasted about Kings Park body before Corryn killed



Lloyd Rayney defamation trial: Sex attacker boasted about Kings Park body before Corryn killed

Posted

A violent sex offender told an acquaintance a body was going to be dumped in Kings Park in the weeks before Lloyd Rayney's wife's disappearance, a court has heard.

Mr Rayney is suing the state of WA for defamation after being named the "prime" and "only" suspect in the murder of his 44-year-old wife Corryn Rayney, whose body was found in Kings Park eight days after she disappeared in 2007.

The evidence came during the testimony of former detective Carl Casilli, a member of Operation Dargan, the taskforce set up to investigate the disappearance and death of Mrs Rayney.

Mr Casilli testified he had "taken it upon himself" to investigate the man, Allon Lacco, as well as his cousin Ivan Eades, who was also a known sex offender and whose DNA was on a cigarette butt found on the verge of the Rayney home.

Mr Casilli said while there was a "small" investigation into Eades, there was a "large investigation" into Lacco and about 18 months after Mrs Rayney's death, in 2009, he travelled to New South Wales to interview him.

The court heard a search of his home found a map of Kings Park, a copy of the layout of the Supreme Court, where Mrs Rayney worked, and a page of a calendar from August 2007, when she was murdered.

Mr Casilii said Lacco maintained the calendar page did not belong to him, but said he had once worked at Kings Park and had the copy of the court layout because he "had an interest in the building".

Mr Rayney's lawyer, Martin Bennett, asked Mr Casilli if he thought Lacco's answers lacked credibility to which he replied "a lot of things about Allon Lacco struck me as lacking in credibility".

The court was told police had earlier taken a statement from an acquaintance of Lacco who had claimed Lacco had once asked him if he could "drive a car for me, while I dump a body in Kings Park".

The acquaintance said it was about four weeks before Mrs Rayney disappeared and as they drove towards the city, Lacco turned to Kings Park and said "there's a body going in there, there's a body going in there".

In his statement, the acquaintance said when he later heard about Mrs Rayney's death he "knew straight away Allon was responsible".

Mr Casilli was asked if he considered the statement to be significant, saying "without doubt I placed a lot of weight on that statement".

However he said in September 2007, when police named Mr Rayney as the "prime" and "only" suspect in his wife's murder, he considered Lacco and Eades to be only "persons of interest".

"I had not elevated them, in my mind, to suspects," he said.

Mr Rayney has always denied any involvement in his wife's death and was found not guilty of her murder after a trial in 2012.

He claims his reputation and career as a successful barrister were ruined when police named him as the only suspect.

Lacco has also previously denied any involvement in Mrs Rayney's murder.

Topics: courts-and-trials, judges-and-legal-profession, police, perth-6000, wa