What your Facebook profile picture says about you
What your Facebook profile picture says about you
A study from academics at the University of Pennsylvania found that if you pose in a funny way, you're more likely to be open to new experiences, whereas if your image is perfectly composed, you're more likely to be conscientious. Extroverts are more likely to have colourful photos, that make them look younger, while agreeable people are more likely to smile, or include friends. However, science says you shouldn't even be picking your own image. In fact, recent research says you should let someone else choose, if you want to seem friendly, intelligent and attractive. The study of 102 students, published in the journal , found that people were consistently better at picking profile pictures for others than for themselves. Dr David White, the study’s first author, said: Our findings suggest that people make poor choices when selecting flattering images of themselves for online profile pictures, which affects other people’s perception of them. This effect is likely to have a substantial impact on online interactions, the impressions people form and the decisions they base on them, including whether to employ, date, befriend or even vote for someone. Previous work has shown that people make inferences about an individual’s character and personality within a split second of seeing a photograph of their face, so our results have clear practical implications; if you want to put your best face forward, it makes sense to ask someone else to choose your picture.  Each participant selected two images that were most and least likely to be used in three social media context. They then repeated this with another person's face. Photographs that others selected were consistently found to be linked with impressions of positive traits. Dr White continued: Our results demonstrate that people know how to select profile pictures that fit specific networking contexts and make positive impressions on strangers: dating images appear more attractive, and professional images appear more competent.                    Keep scrolling for next article

If you have a profile picture of an object or a pet, or something that doesn't include your face, it probably means you're more likely to be neurotic.

A study from academics at the University of Pennsylvania found that if you pose in a funny way, you're more likely to be open to new experiences, whereas if your image is perfectly composed, you're more likely to be conscientious.

Extroverts are more likely to have colourful photos, that make them look younger, while agreeable people are more likely to smile, or include friends.

However, science says you shouldn't even be picking your own image.

In fact, recent research says you should let someone else choose, if you want to seem friendly, intelligent and attractive.

The study of 102 students, published in the journal Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications, found that people were consistently better at picking profile pictures for others than for themselves.

Dr David White, the study’s first author, said:

Our findings suggest that people make poor choices when selecting flattering images of themselves for online profile pictures, which affects other people’s perception of them. This effect is likely to have a substantial impact on online interactions, the impressions people form and the decisions they base on them, including whether to employ, date, befriend or even vote for someone. Previous work has shown that people make inferences about an individual’s character and personality within a split second of seeing a photograph of their face, so our results have clear practical implications; if you want to put your best face forward, it makes sense to ask someone else to choose your picture.

Picture: Cognitive Research: Principles and Implications

Each participant selected two images that were most and least likely to be used in three social media context. They then repeated this with another person's face.

Photographs that others selected were consistently found to be linked with impressions of positive traits.

Dr White continued:

Our results demonstrate that people know how to select profile pictures that fit specific networking contexts and make positive impressions on strangers: dating images appear more attractive, and professional images appear more competent.

HT Spring

More: What your Facebook profile reveals about you