Serena Williams' rep confirms pregnancy, but she already deleted Snapchat photo
Serena Williams' rep confirms pregnancy, but she already deleted Snapchat photo
Tweet     Stumble     Email  Last Updated Apr 19, 2017 7:43 PM EDT A spokeswoman for Serena Williams confirmed to the Associated Press on Wednesday the tennis star is pregnant and due in the fall. The tennis champ raised eyebrows when she posted a photo to Snapchat that seemed to announce that she and fiancé Alexi Ohanian are expecting their first child. Reports began circulating in no time confirming that Williams is pregnant thanks to the image, which featured Williams in a bathing suit turned to the side to show off her stomach, along with the caption “20 weeks.” But maybe it was an announcement the recent Australian Open winner wasn’t quite ready to make, because she quickly deleted the image from her account. Congrats to Serena Williams SHE'S PREGNANT! pic.twitter.com/VMcLuPRQzi Williams and Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit, in December on the popular website.                Tweet     Stumble     Email   Ned Ehrbar is an entertainment producer for CBS News.

A spokeswoman for Serena Williams confirmed to the Associated Press on Wednesday the tennis star is pregnant and due in the fall.

The tennis champ raised eyebrows when she posted a photo to Snapchat that seemed to announce that she and fiancé Alexi Ohanian are expecting their first child.

Reports began circulating in no time confirming that Williams is pregnant thanks to the image, which featured Williams in a bathing suit turned to the side to show off her stomach, along with the caption “20 weeks.”

But maybe it was an announcement the recent Australian Open winner wasn’t quite ready to make, because she quickly deleted the image from her account.

Congrats to Serena Williams

SHE'S PREGNANT! pic.twitter.com/VMcLuPRQzi — MEFeater Magazine (@mefeater) April 19, 2017

Williams and Ohanian, a co-founder of Reddit, announced their engagement in December on the popular website.