Tory and SNP positions in Scotland suggest surge in tactical voting

Scotland editor    Conservative and SNP leaders have claimed their parties are the only credible contestants for the general election in Scotland , fuelling speculation about a surge in tactical voting. Angus Robertson, the SNP’s deputy leader, declared the contest in Scotland a two-horse race between his party and the Tories. Both Labour and the Liberal Democrats were unable to stand up for Scotland, he said. Openly inviting unionist and Brexit supporters to vote tactically in the general election, Ruth Davidson, the Scottish Tory leader, endorsed Robertson’s stance by insisting hers was “the strongest party to take on the SNP”. Speaking to reporters in Edinburgh, she said only the Tories had taken a consistent and robust line against independence. “If you do believe in tactical voting and your principal belief is in keeping the United Kingdom together, actually your vote is for the Scottish Conservatives ,” she said. The interventions increase the chances that the Scottish contest will become a distinctively different battle from that in other parts of the UK, pitting Nicola Sturgeon’s proposals for a second independence referendum against Theresa May’s plans for a free trade deal with the EU. The Scottish first minister said a large SNP majority in Scotland, which the polls suggest is almost certain, would make it impossible for the prime minister to continue to resist her demands for an independence vote around the time that Brexit takes place. Speaking outside the Commons on Wednesday with her party’s 54 MPs, she said: “If the SNP wins this election in Scotland and the Tories don’t, then Theresa May’s attempt to block our mandate to give the people of Scotland a choice over their own future when the time is right will crumble to dust.” If the election contest becomes polarised between those two positions, it raises the prospect of some seats changing hands unexpectedly while putting Scotland’s sole Tory MP, David Mundell, under heavy pressure from pro-independence voters. A senior Scottish Green party figure, its co-convenor Maggie Chapman, endorsed vote-switching by pro-independence voters in seats targeted by the Tories and singled out Mundell’s seat in south-west Scotland. In an interview with the pro-independence National newspaper, Chapman urged her party to avoid standing candidates in rural seats in southern of Scotland where the SNP had the strongest chance of winning against the Tories and where the Greens lost their deposits in 2015. Mundell held his seat of Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale with a slim 798-vote lead over the SNP. The Greens won 839 votes there, implying that if they all switched to the SNP, Mundell could lose. “This is from my own personal position, but I would be quite happy for us to support non-Green candidates if it meant getting Tories out of Scotland,” Chapman said. A string of recent opinion polls show the SNP remains by far Scotland’s most dominant party, at about 47% in the polls. It has a 20-point lead over the Tories, who have now replaced Labour as Scotland’s second most popular party. The latest polls also show the Conservatives pulling away from Labour, whose support has slumped to 14%. The Lib Dems fail to reach double figures, on a par with the Greens at 6%. Davidson believes that growing Tory support and the attractions of vote-switching makes it a strong possibility that the party will take several seats from the SNP in the Borders, regain East Renfrewshire – once a Tory stronghold – and compete hard for seats where there is strong support for Brexit in north-east Scotland. “My strong prediction is that there’s no way the SNP gets 56 seats this time. Not if I have anything to do with it,” she said. Labour’s sole surviving MP, Ian Murray, said he supported tactical voting to defeat the SNP, but said that meant Tory and Lib Dem voters had to switch sides too if their primary objective was to block the SNP. He said it would be ludicrous for Tory voters to think their party had any chance of winning his Edinburgh South seat, given that they were 12,000 votes behind Labour in 2015. “If people are saying we want to protect the union, the candidate in the best position is me,” he said.  Scottish politics   General election 2017   Conservatives   Scottish independence   Scottish National party (SNP)   Scotland   news

Conservative and Scottish National party leaders both claim they are the only credible general election contestants

Conservative and SNP leaders have claimed their parties are the only credible contestants for the general election in Scotland, fuelling speculation about a surge in tactical voting.



Angus Robertson, the SNP’s deputy leader, declared the contest in Scotland a two-horse race between his party and the Tories. Both Labour and the Liberal Democrats were unable to stand up for Scotland, he said.

Openly inviting unionist and Brexit supporters to vote tactically in the general election, Ruth Davidson, the Scottish Tory leader, endorsed Robertson’s stance by insisting hers was “the strongest party to take on the SNP”.

Speaking to reporters in Edinburgh, she said only the Tories had taken a consistent and robust line against independence. “If you do believe in tactical voting and your principal belief is in keeping the United Kingdom together, actually your vote is for the Scottish Conservatives,” she said.

Nicola Sturgeon: June election is huge miscalculation Read more

The interventions increase the chances that the Scottish contest will become a distinctively different battle from that in other parts of the UK, pitting Nicola Sturgeon’s proposals for a second independence referendum against Theresa May’s plans for a free trade deal with the EU.

The Scottish first minister said a large SNP majority in Scotland, which the polls suggest is almost certain, would make it impossible for the prime minister to continue to resist her demands for an independence vote around the time that Brexit takes place.

Speaking outside the Commons on Wednesday with her party’s 54 MPs, she said: “If the SNP wins this election in Scotland and the Tories don’t, then Theresa May’s attempt to block our mandate to give the people of Scotland a choice over their own future when the time is right will crumble to dust.”

If the election contest becomes polarised between those two positions, it raises the prospect of some seats changing hands unexpectedly while putting Scotland’s sole Tory MP, David Mundell, under heavy pressure from pro-independence voters.

A senior Scottish Green party figure, its co-convenor Maggie Chapman, endorsed vote-switching by pro-independence voters in seats targeted by the Tories and singled out Mundell’s seat in south-west Scotland.

In an interview with the pro-independence National newspaper, Chapman urged her party to avoid standing candidates in rural seats in southern of Scotland where the SNP had the strongest chance of winning against the Tories and where the Greens lost their deposits in 2015.

Mundell held his seat of Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale with a slim 798-vote lead over the SNP. The Greens won 839 votes there, implying that if they all switched to the SNP, Mundell could lose. “This is from my own personal position, but I would be quite happy for us to support non-Green candidates if it meant getting Tories out of Scotland,” Chapman said.

A string of recent opinion polls show the SNP remains by far Scotland’s most dominant party, at about 47% in the polls. It has a 20-point lead over the Tories, who have now replaced Labour as Scotland’s second most popular party.

The latest polls also show the Conservatives pulling away from Labour, whose support has slumped to 14%. The Lib Dems fail to reach double figures, on a par with the Greens at 6%.

Davidson believes that growing Tory support and the attractions of vote-switching makes it a strong possibility that the party will take several seats from the SNP in the Borders, regain East Renfrewshire – once a Tory stronghold – and compete hard for seats where there is strong support for Brexit in north-east Scotland.

“My strong prediction is that there’s no way the SNP gets 56 seats this time. Not if I have anything to do with it,” she said.

Labour’s sole surviving MP, Ian Murray, said he supported tactical voting to defeat the SNP, but said that meant Tory and Lib Dem voters had to switch sides too if their primary objective was to block the SNP.

He said it would be ludicrous for Tory voters to think their party had any chance of winning his Edinburgh South seat, given that they were 12,000 votes behind Labour in 2015. “If people are saying we want to protect the union, the candidate in the best position is me,” he said.