Pot Power List: The Music Industry Players Fueling the Reefer Revolution
Pot Power List: The Music Industry Players Fueling the Reefer Revolution
Pot Power List: The Music Industry Players Fueling the Reefer Revolution  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  From smoking joints on Instagram to funneling millions of dollars toward passing Proposition 64, these artists and industry leaders are transforming pot’s role in culture. The stoner comedy pioneer (who has dubbed himself “America’s sweetheart of cannabis”) has his own pot product line, Chong’s Choice, and co-branding deals with European accessories purveyor Futurola and Smoke Swipes. Last September, Berkeley’s city council granted the Amoeba Music founders a license to convert part of their venerable store into a dispensary. The San Francisco shop also houses a medical marijuana referral company. The Cypress Hill frontman won a license for his Dr. Greenthumb dispensary in Santa Ana, Calif., in 2015. It has yet to open, but B-Real also created the Phuncky Feel Tips paraphernalia line and airs cannabis-related content on his BReal.TV streaming network. “I just feel really strongly about the medicinal aspects of cannabis,” the rocker — who used it in her own breast-cancer treatment — said in 2016 when she launched Etheridge Farms, a line of products for California medical patients. After decades arguing for legalization, the 83-year-old (who Snoop has called “the only person that ever smoked me out”) launched Willie’s Reserve in 2016, partnering with local growers and focusing on environmentally sound practices. The Pittsburgh rapper, a vocal legalization advocate, worked with Colorado’s RiverRock Cannabis on a line of products including his own Khalifa Kush strain. He also has a partnership with RAW rolling papers. Kennedy is CEO of Privateer Holdings, which contributed $75 million to launching Marley Natural, the first family of reggae’s ganja line. Privateer also funds Leafly.com and Canadian medical marijuana producer Tilray. Cyrus, an investor in Snoop and Chung’s MerryJane.com, has her own Bangerz brand of gold-leaf rolling papers. Rihanna showcases her pro-pot lifestyle on social media, whether rolling a blunt or wearing cannabis-adorned threads. The rapper/weed entrepreneur and Chung — who heads the Cashmere Agency, Snoop’s branding rep — have partnered on businesses including Leafs by Snoop pot, the cannabis-focused Casa Verde Capital venture firm and the cannabis-centric media platform MerryJane.com . The Napster founder, former Facebook president and current Spotify board member contributed more than $8 million to Proposition 64, the California legalization initiative that passed last November (it was nicknamed the Sean Parker Act).  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

7. Melissa Etheridge

“I just feel really strongly about the medicinal aspects of cannabis,” the rocker — who used it in her own breast-cancer treatment — said in 2016 when she launched Etheridge Farms, a line of products for California medical patients.