Secret Service blocks access to White House's south fence after recent intruder
White House restricts access to southern fence
Shares               The U.S. Secret Service said Wednesday it plans to restrict public access to the sidewalk along the southern fence of the White House, weeks after a man scaled the barrier and walked around the grounds. The changes are a part of an "ongoing comprehensive review" of security measures at the White House and its surrounding grounds, the Secret Service said in a statement Wednesday evening. The new restrictions come just a month after a man carrying mace scaled the White House fence and was able to roam the grounds. The man later identified as Jonathan Tuan-Anh Tran, 26, of Milpitas, California, scaled the south fence on March 10 and walked the grounds for about 16 minutes before being arrested, according to the agency. Two Secret Service agents were later fired over the matter, the agency said last week . Weeks after the March 10 incident, a woman jumped over a temporary barrier outside the White House fence. She was subsequently arrested. The agency said the new policy could lessen the likelihood of any future breaches, but did not attribute the changes to a particular incident. "Restricting public access to the fence line will not only serve to lessen the possibility of individuals illegally accessing the White House grounds, but will also create a clear visual break to enable Secret Service officers to identify and respond to potential hazards including individuals attempting to scale the fence," U.S. Secret Service communications director Cathy Milhoan said in a statement. The changes, which went into effect Wednesday at 11 p.m., will prevent the public from accessing the sidewalk, roadways and the grounds between the south fence line and E Street NW between West Executive Avenue and East Executive Avenue, the agency said. The Secret Service noted that similar limitations had already been in place between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. since 2015. The changes will not obstruct the public's view of the White House complex or prevent them from taking pictures of it, the agency said. "The Secret Service must continually evaluate security protocols and continually balance the security of our protected persons and facilities with the public's ability to access them," Milhoan said. Shares                  White House restricts access to southern fence   Meet the people who prune marijuana and make a fortune at it   Kremlin: No reason to believe gays abused in Chechnya   Computer, police armband stolen from Fillon's campaign team   Police: Man arrested in random Las Vegas stabbings; 1 dead   Fresno gunman gave police blow-by-blow of shootings of 3 men   US Navy makes nude photo sharing a punishable offense   Arkansas suffers 2 setbacks to multiple execution plan   School rallies behind beloved crossing guard as she battles cancer   Waitress gets big tip to help pay for hearing aids   Brave beaver herds confused cattle in Canada   Tax refund vacations: 8 alluring trips   Luxurious New York City mansion on the market for $84.5 million   Starbucks calls shifting-color drink a Unicorn Frappuccino   American, Russian arrive at International Space Station   $13 a pack? NYC mayor wants highest cigarette prices in US   No inoffensive way to say the "n-word," Fla. senator learns   Father of fallen Muslim-American soldier decries travel ban   Defense to plead for leniency in death ex-New Orleans Saint   Syria moved aircraft out of US-bombed airstrip to Russian base   Pence: US not seeking North Korea negotiations   Russian bombers fly close to Alaska again   DREAMer deported as DHS disputes circumstances   How a food writer struggling with mental illness found comfort through cooking   Anne Hathaway regrets 'not trusting' past director because she was a woman   Topsy-turvy French election still has surprises in store   ANALYSIS: Georgia special election result lets both sides claim victory   Serena Williams is pregnant with her 1st child   Richard Simmons: 'I'm not missing'   'Star Wars' speed dating: Finding a love connection in a galaxy far, far away

The U.S. Secret Service said Wednesday it plans to restrict public access to the sidewalk along the southern fence of the White House, weeks after a man scaled the barrier and walked around the grounds.

The changes are a part of an "ongoing comprehensive review" of security measures at the White House and its surrounding grounds, the Secret Service said in a statement Wednesday evening.

The new restrictions come just a month after a man carrying mace scaled the White House fence and was able to roam the grounds.

The man later identified as Jonathan Tuan-Anh Tran, 26, of Milpitas, California, scaled the south fence on March 10 and walked the grounds for about 16 minutes before being arrested, according to the agency.

Two Secret Service agents were later fired over the matter, the agency said last week.

Weeks after the March 10 incident, a woman jumped over a temporary barrier outside the White House fence. She was subsequently arrested.

The agency said the new policy could lessen the likelihood of any future breaches, but did not attribute the changes to a particular incident.

"Restricting public access to the fence line will not only serve to lessen the possibility of individuals illegally accessing the White House grounds, but will also create a clear visual break to enable Secret Service officers to identify and respond to potential hazards including individuals attempting to scale the fence," U.S. Secret Service communications director Cathy Milhoan said in a statement.

The changes, which went into effect Wednesday at 11 p.m., will prevent the public from accessing the sidewalk, roadways and the grounds between the south fence line and E Street NW between West Executive Avenue and East Executive Avenue, the agency said.

The Secret Service noted that similar limitations had already been in place between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. since 2015. The changes will not obstruct the public's view of the White House complex or prevent them from taking pictures of it, the agency said.

"The Secret Service must continually evaluate security protocols and continually balance the security of our protected persons and facilities with the public's ability to access them," Milhoan said.