Can YOU decide whether this bizarre bikini is real or not?
Can YOU decide whether this bizarre bikini is real or not?


We've all heard of a barely-there bikini, but this ultra skimpy number takes the concept to a whole new level.

In fact, footage of a stunning brunette modelling the gold two piece on Instagram has divided social media, with some viewers insisting it's not a swimsuit after all - but simply metallic body paint.

The bizarre beachwear was created by fashion house Black Tape Project and modelled on a golden beach in Haiti.

The video, posted to the brand's Instagram page, has already been viewed over 36,000 times.

A woman, pictured with a member of the Black Tape Project, wore a glittering gold design to a beach in Haiti

The clip shows the unnamed model wearing the gold design on the beach, and it catches the sunlight as an array of photographers stand by to capture the moment.

The top half of the metallic design covers her neck, shoulders and breasts, while the left half starts at the belly button and snakes down one leg.

When the footage was shared on Reddit, people on the forum to quick to air their views on the eye popping design.

The bizarre beachwear has been posted on Reddit and people have struggled to come up with what it is

One user asked: 'Is it still a bikini if you can't swim in it? That stuff looks glued on. Is it even waterproof?'

Another said: 'I actually thought it was a hologram at first. And now I'm still not sure what I'm looking at to be honest.

'Gold leaf?'

But one user guessed correctly, writing: 'It's not even clothing it's just electrical tape stuck to her.'

One Redditor was able to figure out that the design is in fact made of electrical tape

'Still pretty cool though, just saying.'

Another Redditor simply said: 'Can you imagine the sun marks?'

Taking to their Facebook page, Black Tape Project wrote: 'Thank you to the Jack Brewer Foundation.

'Being able to create, and do what we all love, to give back, is the best gift life can offer.'