Mark Zuckerberg Trolls Snapchat: Says 'Facebook Is For Everyone, Not Just The High End'
Mark Zuckerberg Trolls Snapchat: Says 'Facebook Is For Everyone, Not Just The High End'
Mark Zuckerberg Trolls Snapchat: Says 'Facebook Is For Everyone, Not Just The High End' Why is Zuckerberg’s subtle dig at Snapchat noteworthy, you ask? Because last week, US-based Variety quoted Snapchat's ex-employee Anthony Pompliano as saying that Spiegel allegedly tolk him in September 2015 that " the app is only for rich people. I don't want to expand into poor countries like India and Spain ". Obviously, Indians did not take to the comment lightly, resulting in a massive social media backlash. The controversy also resulted in the rating of the popular app dropping to a "single star" from an apparent "five star" on the App Store. A group of Indian hackers also allegedly leaked a database of 1.7 million Snapchat users on the Dark Web as payback for the comments.

Just when the dust on the whole Snapchat controversy seemed to have settled down, Mark Zuckerberg’s latest comments may well add insult to Evan Spiegel’s injury.

Naughty Zucky! (REUTERS)

In what seems to be a subtle reaction to Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel's alleged disinterest in expanding business to "poor countries" like India, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg didn’t want to mince any words, saying that Facebook is for everyone and not just for "the high end".

Mark Zuckerberg was speaking to TechCrunch during the annual Facebook F8 developer conference in San Jose, when he remarked, "I think one thing that people probably don't think about as much as we do is innovation to serve everyone in the community, not just the high end, right?”

Zuckerberg made the comment to emphasize his company’s work on initiatives like the Facebook Lite app, which is used by some 200 million people worldwide, especially in regions where Internet connectivity is bad.

In case you’ve been sleeping under a rock...

Why is Zuckerberg’s subtle dig at Snapchat noteworthy, you ask? Because last week, US-based Variety quoted Snapchat's ex-employee Anthony Pompliano as saying that Spiegel allegedly tolk him in September 2015 that "the app is only for rich people. I don't want to expand into poor countries like India and Spain".

REUTERS

Obviously, Indians did not take to the comment lightly, resulting in a massive social media backlash. The controversy also resulted in the rating of the popular app dropping to a "single star" from an apparent "five star" on the App Store. A group of Indian hackers also allegedly leaked a database of 1.7 million Snapchat users on the Dark Web as payback for the comments.

Snapchat's parent company Snap Inc later denied the allegation, saying no such remark was made by CEO Evan Spiegel.

Don't Miss 446 SHARES 17.3 K SHARES 10.6 K SHARES 5.7 K SHARES 6.8 K SHARES