US Navy makes distributing nude photos without consent a punishable offense
US Navy makes nude photo sharing a punishable offense
Shares               The U.S. Navy announced on Wednesday new regulations that make it a punishable offense for sailors and Marines to post nude pictures of service members online without consent. The new regulations are a direct result of the recent scandal involving male Marines and sailors who posted nude photos of female Marines online. Engaging in such activity now carries the potential for criminal charges. On Tuesday, Acting Navy Secretary Sean Stackley announced the new regulations in a Navy-wide written message. The new rules went into effect immediately and will be formally included in the next printing of the Navy's regulations. "The wrongful distribution or broadcasting of an intimate image is prohibited," under the new regulations. The online posting of intimate photos is considered "wrongful" if done without the consent of the person in the image, and if the intent of the posting is to "to realize personal gain;" "to humiliate, harm, harass, intimidate, threaten, or coerce the depicted person;" or if it is done "with reckless disregard as to whether the depicted person would be humiliated, harmed, intimidated, threatened, or coerced." "The addition of Article 1168 'Nonconsensual distribution or broadcasting of an image' to Navy Regulations serves to underscore leadership's commitment to eliminating degrading behaviors that erode trust and weaken the Navy and Marine Corps Team," the Navy's chief spokesperson, Rear Admiral Dawn Cutler, said in a statement. Cutler said the new regulations provide commanders "another tool to maintain good order and discipline by holding Sailors and Marines accountable for inappropriate conduct in the nonconsensual sharing of intimate imagery." She continued, "This article adds the potential charge of Article 92 'Failure to obey order or regulation' to the possible charges that can be used against an alleged perpetrator. Each case of alleged misconduct will be evaluated on its own facts and circumstances."     The military online nude photo sharing scandal came to light in March when it was disclosed that a link to possibly hundreds of explicit photos of female Marines had been posted on the Marines United Facebook page by current or former male Marines. While that page had 30,000 members, a subsequent review determined that only a small number of individuals were actively involved in sharing nude photos of female Marines. The scandal led the military services to scour other websites for illicit photos of female service members that may have been posted without their consent. General Robert Neller, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, told a congressional committee that the sharing of explicit photos online is an example of broader cultural problems in the Marine Corps that needed to be addressed. Neller also made an impassioned plea for potential victims of the photo sharing to step forward to help investigators The Marine Corps soon updated their social media policy to make cyberbullying a punishable offense. Earlier this month Navy investigators announced that 27 individuals were involved in criminal activity in the posting non-consensual nude photos of female Marines online. Of those, 15 are active duty U.S. military personnel -- 14 in the Marine Corps and one in the Navy. Shares                  US Navy makes nude photo sharing a punishable offense   Meet the people who prune marijuana and make a fortune at it   Kremlin: No reason to believe gays abused in Chechnya   Computer, police armband stolen from Fillon's campaign team   Police: Man arrested in random Las Vegas stabbings; 1 dead   Fresno gunman gave police blow-by-blow of shootings of 3 men   White House restricts access to southern fence   Arkansas suffers 2 setbacks to multiple execution plan   School rallies behind beloved crossing guard as she battles cancer   Waitress gets big tip to help pay for hearing aids   Brave beaver herds confused cattle in Canada   Tax refund vacations: 8 alluring trips   Luxurious New York City mansion on the market for $84.5 million   Starbucks calls shifting-color drink a Unicorn Frappuccino   American, Russian arrive at International Space Station   $13 a pack? NYC mayor wants highest cigarette prices in US   No inoffensive way to say the "n-word," Fla. senator learns   Father of fallen Muslim-American soldier decries travel ban   Defense to plead for leniency in death ex-New Orleans Saint   Syria moved aircraft out of US-bombed airstrip to Russian base   Pence: US not seeking North Korea negotiations   Russian bombers fly close to Alaska again   DREAMer deported as DHS disputes circumstances   How a food writer struggling with mental illness found comfort through cooking   Anne Hathaway regrets 'not trusting' past director because she was a woman   Topsy-turvy French election still has surprises in store   ANALYSIS: Georgia special election result lets both sides claim victory   Serena Williams is pregnant with her 1st child   Richard Simmons: 'I'm not missing'   'Star Wars' speed dating: Finding a love connection in a galaxy far, far away

The U.S. Navy announced on Wednesday new regulations that make it a punishable offense for sailors and Marines to post nude pictures of service members online without consent.

The new regulations are a direct result of the recent scandal involving male Marines and sailors who posted nude photos of female Marines online. Engaging in such activity now carries the potential for criminal charges.

On Tuesday, Acting Navy Secretary Sean Stackley announced the new regulations in a Navy-wide written message. The new rules went into effect immediately and will be formally included in the next printing of the Navy's regulations.

"The wrongful distribution or broadcasting of an intimate image is prohibited," under the new regulations.

The online posting of intimate photos is considered "wrongful" if done without the consent of the person in the image, and if the intent of the posting is to "to realize personal gain;" "to humiliate, harm, harass, intimidate, threaten, or coerce the depicted person;" or if it is done "with reckless disregard as to whether the depicted person would be humiliated, harmed, intimidated, threatened, or coerced."

"The addition of Article 1168 'Nonconsensual distribution or broadcasting of an image' to Navy Regulations serves to underscore leadership's commitment to eliminating degrading behaviors that erode trust and weaken the Navy and Marine Corps Team," the Navy's chief spokesperson, Rear Admiral Dawn Cutler, said in a statement.

Cutler said the new regulations provide commanders "another tool to maintain good order and discipline by holding Sailors and Marines accountable for inappropriate conduct in the nonconsensual sharing of intimate imagery."

She continued, "This article adds the potential charge of Article 92 'Failure to obey order or regulation' to the possible charges that can be used against an alleged perpetrator. Each case of alleged misconduct will be evaluated on its own facts and circumstances."

The military online nude photo sharing scandal came to light in March when it was disclosed that a link to possibly hundreds of explicit photos of female Marines had been posted on the Marines United Facebook page by current or former male Marines. While that page had 30,000 members, a subsequent review determined that only a small number of individuals were actively involved in sharing nude photos of female Marines.

The scandal led the military services to scour other websites for illicit photos of female service members that may have been posted without their consent.

General Robert Neller, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, told a congressional committee that the sharing of explicit photos online is an example of broader cultural problems in the Marine Corps that needed to be addressed.

Neller also made an impassioned plea for potential victims of the photo sharing to step forward to help investigators

The Marine Corps soon updated their social media policy to make cyberbullying a punishable offense.

Earlier this month Navy investigators announced that 27 individuals were involved in criminal activity in the posting non-consensual nude photos of female Marines online. Of those, 15 are active duty U.S. military personnel -- 14 in the Marine Corps and one in the Navy.