Hilarious photos of people in VERY puzzling scenarios
Hilarious photos of people in VERY puzzling scenarios


A woman hoovering her lawn, a beachgoer covered in slices of bread, and a Darth Vadar-clad unicycler playing the bagpipes.

The overwhelming sentiment, is why?

We don't have answers, but this gallery of peculiar characters from around the world, rounded up by MailOnline Travel, elicits plenty of questions.

Under what circumstances, for example, did an elderly woman find herself towing her male companion down the street on a rocking horse - one who is brandishing a riding crop no less.

And how did a nice round of golf end up in a disastrous battle between one man and a cactus?

Perhaps the most confounding of all? A tuxedo-clad gentleman who is not only posing in front of a car crash with a grin on his face, but also clutching a sewing machine.

Mario Testino, eat your heart out: Is this tourist's legs-akimbo stance actually improving the angle of his snap?

Giddy up: For whatever reason, this elderly woman is towing a male companion on a rocking horse with her mobile scooter. Furthermore, he appears to be brandishing a riding crop

Serenading seagulls: This man has seemingly plastered himself with sliced bread - and is quite clearly enjoying the experience

Off course: This golfer appears to have suffered a run-in with a cactus, but how he got quite so covered with spikes remains a mystery

Pulled the plug: A pretty catastrophic capsize for this boat, but how exactly did it occur?

Smart casual: In this case, we know who it is - a Portland-based bagpipe player with a fondness for Darth Vader and unicycles. But why?

Heavy night? The sunglasses. The fur coat. The drizzly weather. And the mysterious hoovering of leaves. There must be a logical explanation for all this, but we can't find it

Where to start? Not only is this tuxedo-clad gentleman posing in front of a car crash with a grin on his face, he is also clutching a sewing machine

Death wish? Our best guess here is that this chancer is fixing an air conditioning unit, but it's definitely not one to try at home

Walkies: All we know is that this snap was reportedly taken in Russia. Why these women are taking their irons for a stroll there remains the million dollar question

A dare? A punishment? There must be an explanation as to why this driver has a shoe wedged in his mouth, other than 'he just felt like it'

Confounding: A passenger whose glum expression is understandable, given that he is wearing a crumpled bin liner

Fetching: This comical snap was captioned - 'Someone in our lab forgot proper attire today'

What on earth? It could be the first line of a joke - 'a horse walked into a store...' - but how does it end?

Need a lift? He's already crammed eight humans onto his moped, but there's always room for more

Bad day? A far from ideal situation in which a Mercedes is gradually being swallowed by the beach

Man with a plan: It would appear that this chap is attempting to extinguish an electrical fire with a bucket of water. It probably won't end well

Sharing is caring: Just a man in a car, breaking bread with a bison. Nothing more to see here