Trevor Noah Gives Bill O’Reilly The Send-Off He Deserves
Trevor Noah Gives Bill O’Reilly The Send-Off He Deserves
Fox News probably won’t be giving Bill O’Reilly a proper farewell, considering the damning sexual harassment allegations that have led to his dismissal on Wednesday. So the “ Daily Show ” decided to do it for them. “You may not know this but Bill O’Reilly was the biggest figure in the history of cable news,” host Trevor Noah said during Wednesday night’s episode. “At one point, no one even came close, because they were afraid that he might sexually harass them.” To honor the scorned political commentator, Noah went over O’Reilly’s greatest hits. Highlights included 20 years of O’Reilly’s rants about the “war on Christmas” and the “war on white Christian men,” and, of course, the TV host’s belligerent racism that was often directed at black men. “Looking back on O’Reilly’s greatest hits, the one thing that’s hard to believe was that it took this long for him to lose his job,” Noah said. “He was so racist, it somehow became funny.” And no O’Reilly tribute would be complete without his famous “Inside Edition” meltdown , which Noah reenacted to perfection. In the clip above, relive O’Reilly’s decades-long career with the “Daily Show” and bid your final farewells to “The O’Reilly Factor.” Related...  Bill O'Reilly Is Out At Fox News   Here Are All The Advertisers Fleeing Bill O'Reilly's Show   Fox News And Bill O'Reilly Are Out Of Excuses   Attorney For Bill O’Reilly Accuser Calls Fox News ‘The Bill Cosby Of Corporate America’  ALSO ON HUFFPOST 19 Of Fox News' Most Unforgettable Moments       Share this slide:       MORE:

So the “Daily Show” decided to do it for them.

“You may not know this but Bill O’Reilly was the biggest figure in the history of cable news,” host Trevor Noah said during Wednesday night’s episode. “At one point, no one even came close, because they were afraid that he might sexually harass them.”

To honor the scorned political commentator, Noah went over O’Reilly’s greatest hits. Highlights included 20 years of O’Reilly’s rants about the “war on Christmas” and the “war on white Christian men,” and, of course, the TV host’s belligerent racism that was often directed at black men.

“Looking back on O’Reilly’s greatest hits, the one thing that’s hard to believe was that it took this long for him to lose his job,” Noah said. “He was so racist, it somehow became funny.”

And no O’Reilly tribute would be complete without his famous “Inside Edition” meltdown, which Noah reenacted to perfection.