Labour MP says General Election is 'not about changing the Government' as she fails to defend Corbyn
Labour MP says General Election is 'not about changing the Government' as she fails to defend Corbyn
lthough Jeremy Corbyn and others at the top of Labour have said they are fighting the election to win, not all of his MPs have the same opinion. Helen Goodman, who is standing again as the Labour candidate for Bishop Auckland, has said that this election is not about beating the Conservative government as she failed to back the Labour leader. As she was questioned on whether Mr Corbyn was a suitable Prime Minister, she said: “I don’t think that this election is about changing the Government. “I think this election is about preventing the Tories from getting such an overwhelming majority that there is no possibility of dissent in this country.” hile Diane Abbott has said Jeremy Corbyn "will be the next prime minister", other Labour MPs have not been so certain. John Woodcock MP has said he will not even be voting for Mr Corbyn. He said in a video to his constituents:  "But I will not countenance ever voting to make Jeremy Corbyn Britain's Prime Minister. I realise that Jeremy has been elected and then re-elected as the leader of my party, but my first duty is to you, my constituents. "Jeremy's opposition to the Trident renewal programme is lifelong and is well-known. But more than that, I cannot countenance endorsing him for a role which I think even he, although he may say differently in front of the cameras, does not think he is fit to carry out. "My party, locally and nationally, will need to decide how to treat my desire for re-selection in these circumstances. "There is still of course time for Jeremy to stand down rather than lead Labour to defeat, but I promised when I first asked you to vote for me that I would put Furness first and that means in these circumstances doing what is right rather than what is easy."

Although Jeremy Corbyn and others at the top of Labour have said they are fighting the election to win, not all of his MPs have the same opinion.

Helen Goodman, who is standing again as the Labour candidate for Bishop Auckland, has said that this election is not about beating the Conservative government as she failed to back the Labour leader.

As she was questioned on whether Mr Corbyn was a suitable Prime Minister, she said: “I don’t think that this election is about changing the Government.

“I think this election is about preventing the Tories from getting such an overwhelming majority that there is no possibility of dissent in this country.”