Volleyball games appear to take place at North Korean nuclear test site

in Tokyo, and agencies   While the Trump administration attempts to play hardball with the North Korean regime, workers at the country’s nuclear testing site appear happy to indulge in a more leisurely pursuit: a game of volleyball. Satellite images taken at the weekend of the Punggye-ri site in the country’s mountainous north-east, showed little human activity to suggest North Korea was preparing to conduct a nuclear test. But four of the images carried on the 38 North website, a North Korea monitoring project based in Washington, showed teams of people playing volleyball – a popular sport among North Koreans – not far from where the regime has conducted all of its underground nuclear detonations. “We see that at three locations in the facility – in the main administrative area, at the support area, at the command center and at the guard barracks near the command centre – they have volleyball games going on,” said Joe Bermudez, an expert at 38 North. The images could mean the site is in the midst of an athletic interlude as final preparations are made for a nuclear test. Or, given that North Korean authorities are aware of when commercial satellites are flying overhead, it could have been a simple act of mischief intended to confuse the outside world. “It suggests that the facility might be going into a standby mode,” Bermusez said. “It also suggests that these volleyball games are being conducted with the North Koreans knowing that we will be looking and reporting on it. They are either sending us a message that they have put the facility on standby, or they are trying to deceive us.” Bermudez said the images showed evidence of tunneling work, but there was no sign that water had been pumped out of the tunnel system where the nuclear tests take place. Speculation that North Korea would conduct its sixth nuclear test in just over a decade to coincide with last Saturday’s celebrations marking the birth of the country’s founder, Kim Il-sung, proved unfounded. Instead, the regime test-fired a missile the following day, although the US said it exploded seconds after it was launched. The monitoring site said satellites had sent back images of personnel playing volleyball at the Punggye-ri site on several occasions stretching back to 2006, the year North Korea conducted its first nuclear test.  North Korea   Nuclear weapons   Asia Pacific   news

Games at Punggye-ri could be intended to confuse outside world, as DPRK officials know when satellites pass overhead

While the Trump administration attempts to play hardball with the North Korean regime, workers at the country’s nuclear testing site appear happy to indulge in a more leisurely pursuit: a game of volleyball.

Satellite images taken at the weekend of the Punggye-ri site in the country’s mountainous north-east, showed little human activity to suggest North Korea was preparing to conduct a nuclear test.

The Guardian view on North Korea: apocalypse not right now | Editorial Read more

But four of the images carried on the 38 North website, a North Korea monitoring project based in Washington, showed teams of people playing volleyball – a popular sport among North Koreans – not far from where the regime has conducted all of its underground nuclear detonations.

“We see that at three locations in the facility – in the main administrative area, at the support area, at the command center and at the guard barracks near the command centre – they have volleyball games going on,” said Joe Bermudez, an expert at 38 North.

The images could mean the site is in the midst of an athletic interlude as final preparations are made for a nuclear test. Or, given that North Korean authorities are aware of when commercial satellites are flying overhead, it could have been a simple act of mischief intended to confuse the outside world.

“It suggests that the facility might be going into a standby mode,” Bermusez said. “It also suggests that these volleyball games are being conducted with the North Koreans knowing that we will be looking and reporting on it. They are either sending us a message that they have put the facility on standby, or they are trying to deceive us.”

Bermudez said the images showed evidence of tunneling work, but there was no sign that water had been pumped out of the tunnel system where the nuclear tests take place.

Speculation that North Korea would conduct its sixth nuclear test in just over a decade to coincide with last Saturday’s celebrations marking the birth of the country’s founder, Kim Il-sung, proved unfounded.

Instead, the regime test-fired a missile the following day, although the US said it exploded seconds after it was launched.

The monitoring site said satellites had sent back images of personnel playing volleyball at the Punggye-ri site on several occasions stretching back to 2006, the year North Korea conducted its first nuclear test.