Steve Harvey says Trump is 'keeping his word'
Steve Harvey says Trump is 'keeping his word'
Political Steve Harvey says Trump is 'keeping his word'   Steve Harvey said President Donald Trump is a man of his word... at least as far as he's concerned. “As far as doing what he promised me, he’s doing it,” Harvey told TMZ cameras on Wednesday. Harvey said, as he discussed with Trump back in January, he has been doing work with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. “You know, I’m working with HUD. I’m going to get some housing for underprivileged people. We’re gonna set up some centers around the country,” he said. The “Family Feud” host said he has been working with Ben Carson. He added, “I met with HUD. It’s going really well. God willing it will work out.” But when asked if he was happy with what Trump has done thus far, he was quick to chime in: “I didn’t say that.” Harvey also clarified that he didn’t say he was unhappy. He summarized, “He’s keeping his word to what he said he would do for me.” Star politics: Who leans left, and who leans right Celebrities who lean to one side ... or the other.  Sylvester Stallone's daughters reveal what it was like growing up with their famous dad   Steve Harvey says Trump is 'keeping his word'   Bethenny Frankel talks nude film past: 'I needed the money'   Richard Simmons finally speaks out: I'm 'just a little under the weather'

Steve Harvey said President Donald Trump is a man of his word... at least as far as he's concerned.

“As far as doing what he promised me, he’s doing it,” Harvey told TMZ cameras on Wednesday.

Harvey said, as he discussed with Trump back in January, he has been doing work with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.

“You know, I’m working with HUD. I’m going to get some housing for underprivileged people. We’re gonna set up some centers around the country,” he said.

The “Family Feud” host said he has been working with Ben Carson.

He added, “I met with HUD. It’s going really well. God willing it will work out.”

But when asked if he was happy with what Trump has done thus far, he was quick to chime in: “I didn’t say that.” Harvey also clarified that he didn’t say he was unhappy.

He summarized, “He’s keeping his word to what he said he would do for me.”

Click here to check out the video of Harvey's chat with TMZ.