What's It Like Being Black in the White-Dominated Weed Industry
What's It Like Being Black in the White-Dominated Weed Industry
28 states recreational use investigative report Breaking into this emerging market hasn’t proven easy for many black entrepreneurs, who often face financial and racial challenges that their white counterparts don’t. Look at cases like Charlo Greene , the former news anchor whose on-air resignation to focus on her advocacy work with the Alaska Cannabis Club went viral in 2014. Since making the career shift from journalism to izm, Greene reports says she's been unfairly targeted and discriminated against by local law enforcement. Although marijuana use has been approved in Alaska since February 2015, she’s currently facing up to 54 years in prison due to new legislation—often referred to as the Charlo clause—that makes it illegal for anyone who ran a cannabis club prior to Nov. 4, 2015, to participate in the green economy. According to Greene, she’s the only person in the entire state that the law would apply to. “For the longest time, there were no people that looked like me. I literally felt like I was bearing the weight of my entire race on my shoulders.”  
—Dr. Lakisha Jenkins I funded my startup by pitching to investors and potential investors in my immediate network of associates, family and friends. I prepared a business plan and pitch deck, then practiced my pitch with a professional. I called each of the ones who were interested in getting into the industry personally. I knew what I wanted and I knew how to relay what I needed, then I asked for their investment. If I didn't seal the deal the first time out, I scheduled a follow-up call with them prior to letting them get off the phone and then I followed up—because the fortune is in the follow-up! If you want a quality, investor-ready business plan, then pay a professional to create it. Once complete prepare to pitch investors. If you’re intimidated about pitching investors, then consider hiring a professional coach to help you through the process. Role-play with professionals who have sought funding from investors in the past and have received it, or role-play with investors who are experienced investors, and then ask them for critiques. This will prepare you for the big pitch. And for crying out loud: Do allow anyone else to pitch your idea or company to investors. Investors may love your company and idea, but it's really the story that sells, and only you can tell your story.  The investors must hear the passion behind the story, so know how to tell your story. Social media is also a good avenue. A guy in my network sold an account called FunnyPicsDept for $50,000 a few years ago. When I saw that, it set me on fire. I immediately started growing a cannabis [social media] account . By the time I got that account from zero to 82,000 followers, I then got in contact with Green Rush. I grabbed some of their social media, some of their Twitter content, and blasted it through our network. Then, the owner of [Green Rush] called me and we started working together soon after that. If you’re capable and you want a job and you want to grind, the opportunity is there. Everything I ask for I get, and that's because I work my ass off. Get to know cannabis intimately. Manifest your destiny. Take the time out to learn shit others are not willing to learn. If you get up and work while everyone else wants to sleep, you can have it. Focus on what you're good at. If you're starting from scratch with a great idea, it's really important that you have a vision of where you're going. It’s also important that you have a team. You need several mentors—a business mentor and a personal mentor as well. Shake as many hands as you possibly can. Most entrepreneurs and business owners seeking funding will generally start within their own network first, then branch out to banks, financial institutions and/or other outside investors (both individual and institutional) for your second raise. My advice is to start where you are with what you've got. In the beginning I would go to all of the industry events and try to go to the educational seminars, the trade shows, and try to learn everything I could. For the longest time, there were no people that looked like me. I literally felt like I was bearing the weight of my entire race on my shoulders. Because I don't look like everyone else that's there. They're like, Wow, what is she doing here? And it took a long time, probably not until about 2014 honestly, until I started seeing more minorities, especially black Americans, coming to these events. So for the longest time, that was hard. There is a huge conference in Tel Aviv in June that has the most diversity that I've ever seen. So going there would be an opportunity for me to show others that there are African-Americans that are in this business. I’m also being asked to attend a huge conference in June called BIO in San Francisco. Me being a part of that, that just gives more light to African-Americans being in this space. When I actually get there and they see I'm African-American, there might be some eyes open. I also plan on returning to Morehouse and having a couple conversations with [black] students I think will be a great approach to awareness of people on the collegiate level. I built my business model based on my interpretation of the law. I had no help—I still have no help. Being an industry leader and everything that I've gone through, with the harassment here on the local level, there's still nobody that looks out for me. The industry associations that I supported and poured my money into, they don't look out for you on an individual level. They influence policy on a state and federal level; they don't influence your own personal life. I wish that I could say that I wasn't a one-woman army fighting this monster by myself out here. But the harsh reality of it is, I’m out here alone. I look out for me but I look out for everyone else. I need everyone to make that personal commitment, to each one teach one. Help as many people as you can. Form some sort of solidarity. That's what we need to get ahead. For me to help other people recognize there are African-Americans doing wonderful things in the medical space [is important]. Awareness and branding myself personally is key and just helping people see that there are opportunities. Again, the social network is huge. Between your Facebook pages, your LinkedIn and Twitter… People start connecting to people in that space and it'll go faster that way.  Being a pioneer and saying, “Hey, I'm going for it. Let me step out here and see what's available.” Who's doing the funding, who are the major players in the distribution channels, lobbyists? Run with the right people. If you add all those circles together, it'll give you a better outcome. The reason I became so interested in investing: I said, man, what if we can pull our money together? What if we can pull our funds together and we can position ourselves in this industry as an organization, as a company. Especially people of color, because we just don't have $100,000, $200,000, or $500,000 just sitting around in the bank. Some of these application fees are non-refundable so it's important for us to keep in mind that as we're coming into this industry as entrepreneurs and business owners, we should not only be growing our businesses, we should also be investing along the way with other businesses. Because many of our counterparts, many of our colleagues, they're growing businesses too. If you're not at that table when they're writing the laws for your state, if you're not there to participate in those conversations, then you're going to be legislatively excluded from participation because your voice wasn't heard. There's no better way to do that than to participate in the National Cannabis Industry Association lobby days. You need to be in Washington, DC, you need to be talking to your lawmakers. You need to find the local industry groups that are influencing law and policy in your state, in your county, in your city, and be a part of those conversations. That's the only way that you're going to be able to ensure your involvement in your industry. The best thing that you can do is to influence policy. Because if you're not at the table, you're on the menu.

Getting Your Weed Business Off The Ground

Adams: I funded my startup by pitching to investors and potential investors in my immediate network of associates, family and friends. I prepared a business plan and pitch deck, then practiced my pitch with a professional. I called each of the ones who were interested in getting into the industry personally. I knew what I wanted and I knew how to relay what I needed, then I asked for their investment. If I didn't seal the deal the first time out, I scheduled a follow-up call with them prior to letting them get off the phone and then I followed up—because the fortune is in the follow-up!

If you want a quality, investor-ready business plan, then pay a professional to create it. Once complete prepare to pitch investors. If you’re intimidated about pitching investors, then consider hiring a professional coach to help you through the process. Role-play with professionals who have sought funding from investors in the past and have received it, or role-play with investors who are experienced investors, and then ask them for critiques. This will prepare you for the big pitch. And for crying out loud: Do not allow anyone else to pitch your idea or company to investors. Investors may love your company and idea, but it's really the story that sells, and only you can tell your story. The investors must hear the passion behind the story, so know how to tell your story.

Green: Social media is also a good avenue. A guy in my network sold an account called FunnyPicsDept for $50,000 a few years ago. When I saw that, it set me on fire. I immediately started growing a cannabis [social media] account. By the time I got that account from zero to 82,000 followers, I then got in contact with Green Rush. I grabbed some of their social media, some of their Twitter content, and blasted it through our network. Then, the owner of [Green Rush] called me and we started working together soon after that.

Jenkins: If a minority entrepreneur is interested in the industry, join the trade organizations and groups that are making the policy. We need to go back to the days of Black Wall Street, when black people supported each other's businesses. We have to understand that there's power in numbers. There's not a lot of people there who are going to put their neck out on the line for you as an individual. But if we decide as a group of people that we wanna mobilize and put our resources together, there's a lot that can get accomplished in this industry.

Green: If you’re capable and you want a job and you want to grind, the opportunity is there. Everything I ask for I get, and that's because I work my ass off. Get to know cannabis intimately. Manifest your destiny. Take the time out to learn shit others are not willing to learn. If you get up and work while everyone else wants to sleep, you can have it.

Adams: Focus on what you're good at. If you're starting from scratch with a great idea, it's really important that you have a vision of where you're going. It’s also important that you have a team. You need several mentors—a business mentor and a personal mentor as well. Shake as many hands as you possibly can. Most entrepreneurs and business owners seeking funding will generally start within their own network first, then branch out to banks, financial institutions and/or other outside investors (both individual and institutional) for your second raise. My advice is to start where you are with what you've got.