Shawn Mendes Drops Feisty New Single 'There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back'
Shawn Mendes Drops Feisty New Single 'There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back'
Shawn Mendes Drops Feisty New Single 'There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back'  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Shawn Mendes isn't holding back his new material. The 18-year-old dropped his latest single, "There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back," on Thursday (April 20). The track is part of Mendes' deluxe edition ofÂ , which he re-released to include the new single. The song's sound falls right in line with the guitar-laced goodness he brought on his sophomore effort, but this time bringing in a little more edge with some strong electric guitar and strained vocals on the chorus.  "It's equal parts what is amazing about this album, and what I'm so excited for about the music I have coming up next," Mendes said in a statement about the song. He'll be performing the track on his Illuminate World Tour , which begins April 27 in Glasgow and will hit the United States starting July 6 in Portland.Â Listen to "There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back" below.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Shawn Mendes isn't holding back his new material. The 18-year-old dropped his latest single, "There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back," on Thursday (April 20).

The track is part of Mendes' deluxe edition ofÂ Illuminate, which he re-released to include the new single. The song's sound falls right in line with the guitar-laced goodness he brought on his sophomore effort, but this time bringing in a little more edge with some strong electric guitar and strained vocals on the chorus.

"It's equal parts what is amazing about this album, and what I'm so excited for about the music I have coming up next," Mendes said in a statement about the song. He'll be performing the track on his Illuminate World Tour, which begins April 27 in Glasgow and will hit the United States starting July 6 in Portland.Â

Listen to "There's Nothing Holdin' Me Back" below.