Indian Silicon Valley CEO Abused Wife For 10 Years, To Get Jail Sentence Of Just 30 Days
Indian Silicon Valley CEO Abused Wife For 10 Years, To Get Jail Sentence Of Just 30 Days
Indian Silicon Valley CEO Abused Wife For 10 Years, To Get Jail Sentence Of Just 30 Days Abhishek Gattani's case has managed to shock a lot of people across the globe, but it isn't something that has never happened before. The seriousness of this case will commensurate with the world's acceptance of crime, that can only thrive in a patriarchial society. The co-founder and CEO of Silicon Valley start-up called Cuberon, Abhishek has been found involved in a horribly scurrilous case of domestic violence against his wife, Neha Rastogi, a former engineer at Apple. Their ordeal, when presented in the court by the way of audio clippings, revealed the Abhishek's gory plans of killing his wife. In those clips, he has conceded several times how he would like to kill his wife. Not only did he empathised with killers in movies, who stab people to death, but he also expressed his contentment in doing the same to his wife. One such clip was recorded in front of their 2-year-old daughter, in which he says how he would like to see her murdered. He was also brutally beating and threatening her during the course of that clip. Those recordings weren't the only record that validated how brutal and ruthless Abhishek has been during their time together. Back in 2013, one postman saw him punching his wife in the head. Other forms of assault include beating, humiliating and harassing her in front of people. Sadly, the lead justice of this case,  Steve Fein finds it okay for Abhishek to spend only 30 days in jail for what amounts to about 10 years of abuse. His charges went from 'assault' to 'accessory' with a charge of “offensive touching”, yes you read that right. I hope @SantaClaraDA & court review their judgement in #abhishekgattani case on may 18. Neha Rastogi deserves better. @RoKhannaUSA Dear Abhishek Gattani of Cuberon What kind of man beats his wife? It's 2017. No rich man deal. Prison then deportation. Sincerely, Women

Abhishek Gattani's case has managed to shock a lot of people across the globe, but it isn't something that has never happened before. The seriousness of this case will commensurate with the world's acceptance of crime, that can only thrive in a patriarchial society.

The co-founder and CEO of Silicon Valley start-up called Cuberon, Abhishek has been found involved in a horribly scurrilous case of domestic violence against his wife, Neha Rastogi, a former engineer at Apple.

theregister

Their ordeal, when presented in the court by the way of audio clippings, revealed the Abhishek's gory plans of killing his wife. In those clips, he has conceded several times how he would like to kill his wife. Not only did he empathised with killers in movies, who stab people to death, but he also expressed his contentment in doing the same to his wife.

One such clip was recorded in front of their 2-year-old daughter, in which he says how he would like to see her murdered. He was also brutally beating and threatening her during the course of that clip.

Those recordings weren't the only record that validated how brutal and ruthless Abhishek has been during their time together. Back in 2013, one postman saw him punching his wife in the head. Other forms of assault include beating, humiliating and harassing her in front of people.

dailymail

Sadly, the lead justice of this case, Steve Fein finds it okay for Abhishek to spend only 30 days in jail for what amounts to about 10 years of abuse.

His charges went from 'assault' to 'accessory' with a charge of “offensive touching”, yes you read that right.

I hope @SantaClaraDA & court review their judgement in #abhishekgattani case on may 18. Neha Rastogi deserves better. @RoKhannaUSA — Sastry (@SasVad) April 19, 2017

So despite evidence and previous offence, Abhishek Gattani is unlikely to face any charges and obviously, his wife, Neha is outraged with this decision.

Dear Abhishek Gattani of Cuberon

What kind of man beats his wife? It's 2017. No rich man deal. Prison then deportation.

Sincerely,

Women — EyeDo (@Illusively) April 19, 2017

Don't Miss 81.7 K SHARES 52.2 K SHARES 13.9 K SHARES

“Offensive touching!!!’ Please explain me is it offensive touching when a 8 month pregnant woman is beaten and then forced to stand for the entire night by her husband, is it offensive touching when a mother nursing her 6 days old child is slapped on her face by her husband because he thinks she is not latching properly with the child, is it offensive touching when a women is flung to the floor and repetitively kicked in her belly, is it offensive touching when a woman is slapped 9 times by her husband until she agrees to everything he is saying and then gets hit again for not agreeing with it sooner…?” she said.

@abhishekgattani Shame on you. R

ead the news and heard the audio of how you abused your wife. Resign and crawl back under the rock. Shame. — mohammedfaheem (@mohammedfaheem) April 18, 2017

Neha further confessed that throughout their marriage, Abhishek was gaslighting and coaxing her into believing that she was a disgrace and she should kill herself. He even beat her when she was 8 months pregnant. He then made her stand for the whole night after beating her up.

But it seems like all her please and evidence fell on deaf years, as the only pertinent question from the judges' side was why it took her so long to open up about this assault?

Judge Allison Marston Danner, who presided over the case wasn't present for Gattani's sentencing last week The fill-in judge postponed the sentencing after hearing Rastogi's statement.