This 'Game of Thrones' statue is the stuff nightmares are made of
This 'Game of Thrones' statue is the stuff nightmares are made of
The penultimate episode of Season 6 — aka "Battle of the Bastards" — was traumatic for a number of reasons: Rickon Stark was murdered in front of his brother and a bunch of random soldiers just because he doesn't know how to zig-zag; Jon Snow was almost crushed to death by a heaving mass of bodies; Ramsay Bolton was eaten alive by his dogs, and, oh yeah, someone was inspired by it to make a statue that looks like this: Maybe he caught sight of his own statue? Image:  dark horse We feel the same, buddy. The limited edition bust, which goes on sale Aug. 23 and retails for $89.99, is admittedly pretty impressively detailed and measures 6” from the base to the top of his head... but it's also pure nightmare fuel and might come alive and murder you while you sleep — who can say for sure? Kit Harington, who plays Jon Snow, is actually a very attractive fella IRL, so it must take a particular set of skills to make him look so... hangry? Constipated? Grumpy that Sansa watched ahead on without him when they'd agreed to Netflix it together? We're not entirely sure. One thing we do know for sure, though, is that Jon's inscrutable expression is a perfect reaction shot with which to express surprise, anger or horror, if not all three at once. Oh, and also to photoshop onto other things for comedic effect, of course. Here's a selection from us to inspire your own photoshopping spree. In Westeros, no one can hear you scream Image:  20th Century Fox/Dark horse - composite by Tina amini We're very mature. Image:  Dark horse - composite by tina amini Inception! Image:  dark horse - Composite by tina amini A Snow for all seasons Image:  FilmMagic/dark horse - composite by tina amini Where's Jon? Image:  ABC via Getty Images/dark horse - composite by tina amini You're welcome. WATCH: Natalie Dormer reveals what it's like to be killed off on 'Game of Thrones'

The penultimate episode of Game of Thrones Season 6 — aka "Battle of the Bastards" — was traumatic for a number of reasons: Rickon Stark was murdered in front of his brother and a bunch of random soldiers just because he doesn't know how to zig-zag; Jon Snow was almost crushed to death by a heaving mass of bodies; Ramsay Bolton was eaten alive by his dogs, and, oh yeah, someone was inspired by it to make a statue that looks like this:

Maybe he caught sight of his own statue? Image: dark horse

We feel the same, buddy.

The limited edition bust, which goes on sale Aug. 23 and retails for $89.99, is admittedly pretty impressively detailed and measures 6” from the base to the top of his head... but it's also pure nightmare fuel and might come alive and murder you while you sleep — who can say for sure?

Kit Harington, who plays Jon Snow, is actually a very attractive fella IRL, so it must take a particular set of skills to make him look so... hangry? Constipated? Grumpy that Sansa watched ahead on Mad Men without him when they'd agreed to Netflix it together? We're not entirely sure.

One thing we do know for sure, though, is that Jon's inscrutable expression is a perfect reaction shot with which to express surprise, anger or horror, if not all three at once. Oh, and also to photoshop onto other things for comedic effect, of course.

Here's a selection from us to inspire your own photoshopping spree.

In Westeros, no one can hear you scream Image: 20th Century Fox/Dark horse - composite by Tina amini

We're very mature. Image: Dark horse - composite by tina amini

Inception! Image: dark horse - Composite by tina amini

A Snow for all seasons Image: FilmMagic/dark horse - composite by tina amini

Where's Jon? Image: ABC via Getty Images/dark horse - composite by tina amini

You're welcome.