Fans are losing it over this Jon Snow theory from new 'Game of Thrones' photo
Fans are losing it over this Jon Snow theory from new 'Game of Thrones' photo
Jon Snow has always been a bastard. Aw, I feel bad even typing it. The ever-brooding Night's Watch Commander and and King of the Andals' Man Buns has had a rough go of it for the past couple season of (and also his whole life). At the end of Season 6, we learned Jon's true parentage, and an image from Season 7 hints that he himself might find out soon. SEE ALSO: 'Game of Thrones' Season 7 photos offer our first glimpse of winter The image in question looks innocent at first; It's just Jon bein' Jon, rockin' the man bun and his finest furs while staring sullenly into the distance. But take a closer look: interesting, interesting Image:  hbo He's somewhere very dark, and those arches in the background are pointing fans to one location: The crypts. Yes, the . Where they keep . Like Jon's birth mother, Lyanna Stark (his father Rhaegar wouldn't be in the same crypt, ha!). Of course, Reddit is already all over these photos, and the consensus is clear: Comment from discussion [TV] First Official Game of Thrones Season 7 Photos . But what does Jon in the crypts even mean, besides heavily fraught staring at Lyanna's tomb? Another popular theory suggests that there's more to the tomb than just a Stark memorial — it may have a little clue as to Jon's secret Targaryen blood. Until now, Jon thought he was Ned Stark's son, so how will this shocking news hit him? How much can one man brood, I ask you?? Will he reject or accept his Targaryen ties and find Daenerys as soon as possible? Will these two ideal rulers actually join forces and rule the seven kingdoms? I'm getting ahead of myself. Season 7 premieres on HBO July 16. WATCH: Watch Kristin Chenoweth slay the 'GoT' theme song with her voice of Valyrian steel

Jon Snow has always been a bastard.

Aw, I feel bad even typing it. The ever-brooding Night's Watch Commander and and King of the Andals' Man Buns has had a rough go of it for the past couple season of Game of Thrones (and also his whole life). At the end of Season 6, we learned Jon's true parentage, and an image from Season 7 hints that he himself might find out soon.

The image in question looks innocent at first; It's just Jon bein' Jon, rockin' the man bun and his finest furs while staring sullenly into the distance. But take a closer look:

interesting, interesting Image: hbo

He's somewhere very dark, and those arches in the background are pointing fans to one location: The crypts.

Yes, the crypts. Where they keep the dead. Like Jon's birth mother, Lyanna Stark (his father Rhaegar wouldn't be in the same crypt, ha!). Of course, Reddit is already all over these photos, and the consensus is clear:

But what does Jon in the crypts even mean, besides heavily fraught staring at Lyanna's tomb? Another popular theory suggests that there's more to the tomb than just a Stark memorial — it may have a little clue as to Jon's secret Targaryen blood.

Until now, Jon thought he was Ned Stark's son, so how will this shocking news hit him? How much can one man brood, I ask you?? Will he reject or accept his Targaryen ties and find Daenerys as soon as possible? Will these two ideal rulers actually join forces and rule the seven kingdoms?

I'm getting ahead of myself. Game of Thrones Season 7 premieres on HBO July 16.