Tesla recalls 53,000 Model X and Model S cars over parking brakes
Tesla recalls 53,000 Model X and Model S cars over parking brakes
Tesla announced on Thursday a recall of 53,000 Model S and Model X vehicles due to problems with electronic parking brakes. The company announced the recall on its website, noting that a the issue "could prevent the parking brake from releasing." Tesla noted that it did not consider the problem a safety issue, nor has the company found any accidents or injuries related to the safety brake malfunction. SEE ALSO: A very confident Tesla launches the new Powerwall 2 in Australia The recall affects Model S and Model X cars built between February 2016 and October 2016. "If you own a Tesla vehicle that was built during this period, we will soon be sending you an official recall notice by mail, which will include information on how to have your parking brakes replaced. In the meantime, it is safe to continue regular use of your vehicle," the company said in a notice on its website . Tesla is also emailing affected customers. The company said it believes less than 5% of vehicles have been affected by the issue. The Tesla cars will need to have its brakes replaced, a process that should take about 45 minutes. WATCH: An ex-Tesla engineer fixed everything that's wrong with the hoverboard

Tesla announced on Thursday a recall of 53,000 Model S and Model X vehicles due to problems with electronic parking brakes.

The company announced the recall on its website, noting that a the issue "could prevent the parking brake from releasing." Tesla noted that it did not consider the problem a safety issue, nor has the company found any accidents or injuries related to the safety brake malfunction.

SEE ALSO: A very confident Tesla launches the new Powerwall 2 in Australia

The recall affects Model S and Model X cars built between February 2016 and October 2016.

"If you own a Tesla vehicle that was built during this period, we will soon be sending you an official recall notice by mail, which will include information on how to have your parking brakes replaced. In the meantime, it is safe to continue regular use of your vehicle," the company said in a notice on its website.

Tesla is also emailing affected customers. The company said it believes less than 5% of vehicles have been affected by the issue.

The Tesla cars will need to have its brakes replaced, a process that should take about 45 minutes.