In Operation Vandelay Industries, Prosecutors Allege Real-Life ‘Seinfeld’ Plot
In Operation Vandelay Industries, Prosecutors Allege Real-Life ‘Seinfeld’ Plot
A man who claimed to be a registered architect defrauded businesses and municipalities in upstate New York of more than $200,000 since 2010, the New York attorney general alleged on Thursday in a news release that openly acknowledged how similar the accusations were to a long-running joke on “Seinfeld.” The attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, said that Paul J. Newman — yes, his surname is Newman, just like Jerry’s nemesis on the sitcom — drafted architectural renderings for over 100 properties in Albany, Rensselaer and Saratoga Counties. He is accused of submitting forged stamps in documents to several towns and cities, according to the news release, and was hired to work on projects including townhouses and senior-living communities. While George Costanza never faced serious consequences for pretending to be an architect on “Seinfeld,” Mr. Newman, the president of Cohesion Studios Inc., would face up to 15 years in prison if convicted of the highest count charged. “For over seven years the defendant has pretended to be a registered architect, deceiving hundreds of New Yorkers — including families and senior citizens — with the sole goal of enriching himself,” Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement about what his office called Operation Vandelay Industries. “By allegedly falsifying building plans, code compliance inspections, and field reports, the defendant jeopardized the safety of those who resided in and frequented the buildings he was contracted to work on.” The attorney general’s office was not subtle about comparing the charges to a “Seinfeld” episode that was first broadcast on Feb. 12, 1992. I'm indicting alleged fake architect Paul Newman on 58 counts as a result of our "Operation Vandelay Industries." pic.twitter.com/8cfn6zQIGk  But it’s time for a fact-check. On the show, Mr. Costanza does love pretending to be an architect . But Vandelay Industries, where Mr. Costanza supposedly interviewed to become a salesman , had nothing to do with architecture. The fictional company was said to manufacture and sell latex and latex-related products. The company was perhaps tied somehow to Art Vandelay, Mr. Costanza’s frequent alter ego , but a cross-referencing of Seinology and Seinfeld Scripts shows no episodes in which Mr. Costanza claimed to be an architect while assuming the identity of Mr. Vandelay. Instead, the fictional Mr. Vandelay was said to be an importer / exporter and the author of “Venetian Blinds.” An actual character named Arthur Vandelay appeared in the series finale as a judge for the Fourth District County Court in Latham, Mass. Architecture is just one of the many professions Mr. Costanza fancied. He also professed to be a marine biologist , pornographic actor , hen supervisor , and a playwright who wrote the Off Off Broadway show “ La Cocina ,” a comedy about a Mexican chef. We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

A man who claimed to be a registered architect defrauded businesses and municipalities in upstate New York of more than $200,000 since 2010, the New York attorney general alleged on Thursday in a news release that openly acknowledged how similar the accusations were to a long-running joke on “Seinfeld.”

The attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, said that Paul J. Newman — yes, his surname is Newman, just like Jerry’s nemesis on the sitcom — drafted architectural renderings for over 100 properties in Albany, Rensselaer and Saratoga Counties. He is accused of submitting forged stamps in documents to several towns and cities, according to the news release, and was hired to work on projects including townhouses and senior-living communities.

While George Costanza never faced serious consequences for pretending to be an architect on “Seinfeld,” Mr. Newman, the president of Cohesion Studios Inc., would face up to 15 years in prison if convicted of the highest count charged.

“For over seven years the defendant has pretended to be a registered architect, deceiving hundreds of New Yorkers — including families and senior citizens — with the sole goal of enriching himself,” Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement about what his office called Operation Vandelay Industries. “By allegedly falsifying building plans, code compliance inspections, and field reports, the defendant jeopardized the safety of those who resided in and frequented the buildings he was contracted to work on.”

The attorney general’s office was not subtle about comparing the charges to a “Seinfeld” episode that was first broadcast on Feb. 12, 1992.

But it’s time for a fact-check. On the show, Mr. Costanza does love pretending to be an architect. But Vandelay Industries, where Mr. Costanza supposedly interviewed to become a salesman, had nothing to do with architecture. The fictional company was said to manufacture and sell latex and latex-related products.

The company was perhaps tied somehow to Art Vandelay, Mr. Costanza’s frequent alter ego, but a cross-referencing of Seinology and Seinfeld Scripts shows no episodes in which Mr. Costanza claimed to be an architect while assuming the identity of Mr. Vandelay. Instead, the fictional Mr. Vandelay was said to be an importer/exporter and the author of “Venetian Blinds.” An actual character named Arthur Vandelay appeared in the series finale as a judge for the Fourth District County Court in Latham, Mass.

Architecture is just one of the many professions Mr. Costanza fancied. He also professed to be a marine biologist, pornographic actor, hen supervisor, and a playwright who wrote the Off Off Broadway show “La Cocina,” a comedy about a Mexican chef.