Champs-Elysees shooting: 1 police officer killed, another injured in Paris attack
Champs-Elysees shooting: 1 police officer killed, another injured in Paris attack
Europe Champs-Elysees shooting: 1 police officer killed, another injured in Paris attack By    One police officer was killed and another was wounded when a gunman opened fire late Thursday on the famed Champs-Elysees shopping district in Paris, officials said. Paris police spokeswoman Johanna Primevert told The Associated Press that the attacker targeted police guarding the area near the Franklin Roosevelt subway station at the center of the avenue popular with tourists. Authorities warned people in the heart of the French capital to avoid the area after the shooting, France 24 reported. Many police vehicles can be seen on the avenue that passes many of the city's most iconic landmarks. A witness identified only as Ines told French television station BFM that she heard a shooting, saw a man's body on the ground and the area was quickly evacuated by police. The attack came three days before the first round of balloting in France's tense presidential election. Security is high preceding the vote after police said they arrested two men Tuesday in what they described as a thwarted terror attack. France has been in a state of emergency following a series of terrorist attacks, including the the November 2015 attacks, which targeted the Bataclan concert hall and Stade de France sports arena in Paris and the deadly truck attack in Nice on Bastille Day in July 2016. The state of emergency has been extended by several parliamentary votes and remains in effect.

DEVELOPING: One police officer was killed and another was wounded when a gunman opened fire late Thursday on the famed Champs-Elysees shopping district in Paris, officials said.

Paris police spokeswoman Johanna Primevert told The Associated Press that the attacker targeted police guarding the area near the Franklin Roosevelt subway station at the center of the avenue popular with tourists.

Authorities warned people in the heart of the French capital to avoid the area after the shooting, France 24 reported.

Many police vehicles can be seen on the avenue that passes many of the city's most iconic landmarks.

A witness identified only as Ines told French television station BFM that she heard a shooting, saw a man's body on the ground and the area was quickly evacuated by police.

The attack came three days before the first round of balloting in France's tense presidential election.

Security is high preceding the vote after police said they arrested two men Tuesday in what they described as a thwarted terror attack.

France has been in a state of emergency following a series of terrorist attacks, including the the November 2015 attacks, which targeted the Bataclan concert hall and Stade de France sports arena in Paris and the deadly truck attack in Nice on Bastille Day in July 2016.

The state of emergency has been extended by several parliamentary votes and remains in effect.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Read more from SkyNews.

Read more from France 24.