Buffalo Bills Player Asks Cops to Shoot Him During Bizarre Incident
Buffalo Bills Player Asks Cops to Shoot Him During Bizarre Incident
Bills offensive tackle Cyrus Kouandjio is not exactly the highest profile player in the NFL. And yet, the Buffalo lineman found his way into the headlines after a bizarre incident on Tuesday not far from the site of an Elma, New York car accident that left a pregnant woman in critical condition. Police say Kouandijo was found " not fully clothed " in the middle of a field after he had reportedly climbed over an electric fence. As a sheriff's deputy for the Erie County police department encountered him, Kouandijo shouted, "Shoot me!" Kouandijo was neither shot nor arrested, and was instead taken for observation to the Erie County Medical Center. He was not at Bills mini-camp on Thursday. The team released a statement in response to the peculiar situation. "We are aware of the matter involving Cyrus and are carefully monitoring his condition and gathering more information," they said. "We don't have all of the details, so we won't have any further comment at this time." According to , a police source says the cops were unaware they were approaching an NFL player at the time, and only found out later when they found his abandoned vehicle. That source further stated that police believe Kouandijo ditched his ride and fled on foot after he saw the flashing lights of police and emergency vehicles at the scene of the previously mentioned accident. Kouandjio has played in the NFL for the past three years, all with Buffalo, after being drafted out of Alabama in the 2nd round in 2014. In that time he has found his way into 25 games, and has started seven of them.

Bills offensive tackle Cyrus Kouandjio is not exactly the highest profile player in the NFL. And yet, the Buffalo lineman found his way into the headlines after a bizarre incident on Tuesday not far from the site of an Elma, New York car accident that left a pregnant woman in critical condition.

Police say Kouandijo was found "not fully clothed" in the middle of a field after he had reportedly climbed over an electric fence. As a sheriff's deputy for the Erie County police department encountered him, Kouandijo shouted, "Shoot me!" Kouandijo was neither shot nor arrested, and was instead taken for observation to the Erie County Medical Center. He was not at Bills mini-camp on Thursday.

The team released a statement in response to the peculiar situation. "We are aware of the matter involving Cyrus and are carefully monitoring his condition and gathering more information," they said. "We don't have all of the details, so we won't have any further comment at this time."

According to The Buffalo News, a police source says the cops were unaware they were approaching an NFL player at the time, and only found out later when they found his abandoned vehicle. That source further stated that police believe Kouandijo ditched his ride and fled on foot after he saw the flashing lights of police and emergency vehicles at the scene of the previously mentioned accident.

Kouandjio has played in the NFL for the past three years, all with Buffalo, after being drafted out of Alabama in the 2nd round in 2014. In that time he has found his way into 25 games, and has started seven of them.