Best dating profile pics for successful likes
The best profile picture to bag you a date revealed


Anyone with an online dating account will know that choosing the perfect profile picture for your page is a tricky business.

From candid photos to Snapchat selfies, it can be difficult to know what will help you bag the likes in a sea of profiles.

But help is at hand, as Hinge has released data on the most successful photo practices.

The findings suggest that women should smile with their teeth, men should avoid looking away from the camera, and no one should share a bathroom selfie.

Women were found to be more successful when smiling with their teeth, looking away from the camera, wearing their hair up, and standing alone

Data scientists from New York-based dating app, Hinge, analysed their members' photos to reveal which profile pictures get the most likes.

The team assigned 35 unique photo tags, such as smiling with or without teeth, to a random sample of 1,000 photos.

This allowed them to see which tags were associated with photos with lots of likes.

The results showed that men saw an increase in likes when smiling without teeth, facing front on and standing alone

BEST PICTURES FOR FEMALES Best photos for women featured: - Hair up (+72%) - Smile with teeth (+72%) - Looking away from the camera (+74%) - Standing along (+69%)

BEST PICTURES FOR MALES Best photos for men featured: - Smile without teeth (+43%) - Looking straight into the camera (+102%) - Standing alone (+11%)

Images featuring sports were shown to increase the chance of a like by 75 per cent, which those featuring nights out increased likes by 74 per cent.

And while you might see them as old-fashioned, black and white photos were a huge hit, increasing likes by a huge 106 per cent.

Hinge also discovered that spontaneous snaps were more likely to get a like than posed photos.

Beach photos didn't do well, decreasing the chance of a like for both men and women by 80 per cent and 47 per cent, respectively

Images featuring sports were shown to increase the chance of a like for men and women by an average of 75 per cent

In contrast, the biggest no-go was photos with a Snapchat filter, which decreased the chance of a like by 90 per cent.

Although celebrities take thousands of them every day, selfies actually decrease your chances of getting a like by 40 per cent.

And taking a picture of yourself in a bathroom mirror will reduce your chances of a like by as much as 90 per cent.

Although celebrities take thousands of them every day, selfies actually decrease your chances of getting a like by 40 per cent

While you might see them as old-fashioned, black and white photos were a big hit, increasing likes by a huge 106 per cent

Beach photos also didn't do well, decreasing the chance of a like for both men and women.

The results varied between men and women, especially when it came to the style of smiling, and which direction to look in.

Women were found to be more successful when smiling with their teeth and looking away from the camera.

Hinge also discovered that spontaneous snaps were more likely to get a like on social media than posed photos

The biggest no-gos were photos with a Snapchat filter, which were shown to decrease the chance of a like by 90 per cent

Meanwhile, men saw an increase in likes when smiling without teeth, facing front on.

Jean-Marie McGrath, a spokesperson for Hinge, said: 'Since Hinge profiles are designed to show off our Members' personalities, we want to help them put their best foot forward with their photos.

'Now we can tell them which photos they should share and which they should probably keep to themselves.'

Hinge has released data on the most successful photo practices. The findings suggest that women should smile with their teeth and look away from the camera, while men should look directly into the camera and smile without teeth