Samsung Galaxy S8 Users Say Their Displays Are Tinted Red, And They're Not Happy About It
Samsung Galaxy S8 Users Say Their Displays Are Tinted Red, And They're Not Happy About It
Samsung Galaxy S8 Users Say Their Displays Are Tinted Red, And They're Not Happy About It The Samsung Galaxy S8 just went up for preorder in India, and by all early first impressions the Samsung flagship seems to be a smash hit. But some early adopters from South Korea are noticing a peculiar issue. After the Galaxy Note 7 fiasco of 2016, that saw its devices catching fire, the company was desperate to make a good impression with its latest flagship, the Galaxy S8. All in all, Samsung seems to have delivered on its promises, but there might be one teensy little hiccup. Some early Galaxy S8 adopters have been reporting a flaw in their newly-purchased device, saying the display appears to have a reddish tint to it. The company had shipped several units of the phone to customers in South Korea who had preordered them a week ago. According to ZDNet , some Galaxy S8 users have been posting on forums and social media, claiming there’s a red hue to their screens. “Galaxy S8 Red Screen” was even a trending search topic on the country’s largest search engine, Naver. A post shared by PARK EUNJU (@2unjuu) on Apr 17, 2017 at 10:44pm PDT   A post shared by 김지원 (@jiweon5368) on Apr 17, 2017 at 7:16pm PDT   Samsung has since released a statement on the matter, saying it’s an issue with the display’s automatic colour balancing feature. “All Samsung phones undergo thorough testing to meet our high level of quality standards,” the company said in a statement to ZDNet. “The Infinity Display on the Galaxy S8 and S8+ has applied Super AMOLED and provides rich and expressive colors, enabling users to enjoy a clearer and more vivid viewing experience. The Galaxy S8 was built with an adaptive display that optimizes the color range, saturation, and sharpness depending on the environment.” Thankfully for the company, the issue is a minor one (if annoying) and is easily rectified. Users can simply access their Settings menu, navigate to the Display tab, then Screen Mode, and edit the Color Balance option. Samsung may be okay right now, but the company’s executives have got to be praying there’s no other overlooked flaw in the smartphone. The company can afford no more errors, or it risks being crucified by once-fans now at the end of their patience.

The Samsung Galaxy S8 just went up for preorder in India, and by all early first impressions the Samsung flagship seems to be a smash hit. But some early adopters from South Korea are noticing a peculiar issue.

After the Galaxy Note 7 fiasco of 2016, that saw its devices catching fire, the company was desperate to make a good impression with its latest flagship, the Galaxy S8. All in all, Samsung seems to have delivered on its promises, but there might be one teensy little hiccup.

Some early Galaxy S8 adopters have been reporting a flaw in their newly-purchased device, saying the display appears to have a reddish tint to it. The company had shipped several units of the phone to customers in South Korea who had preordered them a week ago.

According to ZDNet, some Galaxy S8 users have been posting on forums and social media, claiming there’s a red hue to their screens. “Galaxy S8 Red Screen” was even a trending search topic on the country’s largest search engine, Naver.

A post shared by PARK EUNJU (@2unjuu) on Apr 17, 2017 at 10:44pm PDT

A post shared by 김지원 (@jiweon5368) on Apr 17, 2017 at 7:16pm PDT

Samsung has since released a statement on the matter, saying it’s an issue with the display’s automatic colour balancing feature. “All Samsung phones undergo thorough testing to meet our high level of quality standards,” the company said in a statement to ZDNet. “The Infinity Display on the Galaxy S8 and S8+ has applied Super AMOLED and provides rich and expressive colors, enabling users to enjoy a clearer and more vivid viewing experience. The Galaxy S8 was built with an adaptive display that optimizes the color range, saturation, and sharpness depending on the environment.”

Thankfully for the company, the issue is a minor one (if annoying) and is easily rectified. Users can simply access their Settings menu, navigate to the Display tab, then Screen Mode, and edit the Color Balance option.

Samsung may be okay right now, but the company’s executives have got to be praying there’s no other overlooked flaw in the smartphone. The company can afford no more errors, or it risks being crucified by once-fans now at the end of their patience.

Don't Miss 15.5 K SHARES 17.3 K SHARES 3.4 K SHARES 10.6 K SHARES