Jaden Smith Is Starting a Rock Band with His Sister Willow
Jaden Smith Is Starting a Rock Band with His Sister Willow
Jaden Smith isn’t content with sticking to just one music genre. On Thursday, the 18-year-old multi-hyphenate announced he was starting a rock band with his sister Willow and girlfriend Odessa Adlon. He even gave fans a taste of what they have in store. This Is A Clip From A Rock Band I'm Starting pic.twitter.com/H143TVtcDf Yes Odessa Is In The Band So Is Willow. Jaden didn’t reveal any more details about the rock group, but he did reassure fans the band wouldn’t get in the way of his K-pop aspirations. Yup, it turns out he hasn’t abandoned that dream. Back in December of 2016, Jaden tweeted his desire to become a K-pop star and also gave a shout out to G Dragon, referring to him as an “inspiration.” I Just Wanna Be A K Pop Star I'm Serious I Actually Wanna Be A K Pop Star. G Dragon Is My Inspiration. It sounds like fans won't have to wait too long to hear Jaden's take on the Korean music genre. On Thursday, he told fans they could expect his first K-pop single before summer’s end. And Yes I Will Be Dropping A K Pop Single In The Next 4 Months. But that's not all he has on deck. Jaden also revealed he would release two videos within the next month, presumably for tracks off his upcoming debut studio album . And Yes I Have 2 Videos Dropping In The Next Month. #Syre  #Batman  #WatchMe Does this mean the long-awaited album is around the corner? Stay tuned.

Jaden Smith isn’t content with sticking to just one music genre. On Thursday, the 18-year-old multi-hyphenate announced he was starting a rock band with his sister Willow and girlfriend Odessa Adlon. He even gave fans a taste of what they have in store.

This Is A Clip From A Rock Band I'm Starting pic.twitter.com/H143TVtcDf — Jaden Smith (@officialjaden) April 20, 2017

Yes Odessa Is In The Band So Is Willow. — Jaden Smith (@officialjaden) April 20, 2017

Jaden didn’t reveal any more details about the rock group, but he did reassure fans the band wouldn’t get in the way of his K-pop aspirations. Yup, it turns out he hasn’t abandoned that dream. Back in December of 2016, Jaden tweeted his desire to become a K-pop star and also gave a shout out to G Dragon, referring to him as an “inspiration.”

I Just Wanna Be A K Pop Star — Jaden Smith (@officialjaden) December 20, 2016

I'm Serious I Actually Wanna Be A K Pop Star. — Jaden Smith (@officialjaden) December 21, 2016

G Dragon Is My Inspiration. — Jaden Smith (@officialjaden) December 7, 2016

It sounds like fans won't have to wait too long to hear Jaden's take on the Korean music genre. On Thursday, he told fans they could expect his first K-pop single before summer’s end.

And Yes I Will Be Dropping A K Pop Single In The Next 4 Months. — Jaden Smith (@officialjaden) April 20, 2017

But that's not all he has on deck. Jaden also revealed he would release two videos within the next month, presumably for tracks off his upcoming debut studio album Syre.

And Yes I Have 2 Videos Dropping In The Next Month. #Syre #Batman #WatchMe — Jaden Smith (@officialjaden) April 20, 2017

Does this mean the long-awaited album is around the corner? Stay tuned.