Wall Street bounces back on continued strength in quarterly reporting



Wall Street bounces back on continued strength in quarterly reporting

Posted

Stocks in the United States have made modest gains overnight with investors reasonably optimistic after some solid company earnings reports.

Markets at 8:00am (AEST): ASX SPI 200 futures +0.5pc to 5,833

AUD: 75.25 US cents, 58.73 British pence, 82.24 Japanese yen, 70.19 eurocents, $NZ1.07

US: S&P 500 +0.75pc to 2,355, Dow Jones +0.85pc to 20,578, Nasdaq +0.92pc to 5,916

Europe: Euro Stoxx 369.16, FTSE +0.06pc to 7,118

Commodities: Gold +0.19pc to $US1,281.35/ounce

Analysts said investors appeared to be looking past geopolitical tensions and were instead hoping first-quarter earnings would be strong enough to justify high market valuations.

At an Institute for International Finance event, US Treasury Secretary Mr Mnuchin signalled tax reform may be coming soon, saying he hoped passing a tax overhaul would not "take till the end of the year".

He also suggested that it might not necessarily be tied to completing reforms of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.

Mr Mnuchin also placed heavy emphasis on regulatory relief, as well as tax reform, as key to securing higher growth, leading to gains in the financial sector again, according to an NAB analyst note.

NAB economist and market strategist Ray Attrill wrote Mr Mnuchin's remarks had played with the grain of a lift to US yields.

"[This was supported by] data showing still very low levels of weekly US jobless claims, an okay Philly Fed survey and Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan saying he still sees the [Federal Reserve]'s three rate hike median for 2017 as a good baseline - though he adds the Fed still has time to wait and see on the economy," he wrote.

"The net result here is that the dial on June Fed rate hike odds has shifted back to about evens from little more than a third earlier in the week."

Also of interest to markets was news that US President Donald Trump's has ordered an investigation into whether steel imports will jeopardize American national security, raising the prospect of new tariffs.

His administration said Chinese steel imports to the US had reached 26 per cent of the market, but Mr Trump promised the probe would have "nothing to do" with China.

Quarterly company results continue to show strength

Goldman Sachs and American Express led the Dow Jones Industrial Average higher, with the credit card company reporting a smaller-than-expected drop in first-quarter earnings.

Railroad company CSX Corp was another strong performer after it reported quarterly net profit above market expectations.

European shares were also higher overnight, with gains in banking stocks ahead of the first round of France's presidential election.

UBS upgraded the banking sector to neutral from underweight on Wednesday, noting a more benign regulatory environment.

Analysts said European gains were supported by polls showing centrist Emmanuel Macron pulling ahead of far-right nationalist Marine Le Pen in first round polls, but had been undermined by US dollar gains.

Oil shows signs of stabilising

US oil futures eased further overnight, after a rapid decline on Wednesday, with analysts attributing the drop to an unexpected increase in US gasoline supplies and the upcoming expiration of May's futures contract.

"Yesterday's sharp oil price correction is the latest reminder that the rebalancing act, or oil price recovery will not be strictly linear," RBC commodities strategist Helima Croft wrote in an analyst note.

"Dips below the $US50 a barrel mark will likely be short lived, but our long held range bound view also suggests that near-term rallies into the mid $50s will likely be capped over the next several months.

"Market sentiment will ebb and flow alongside persuasive and catchy headlines, particularly those pertaining to US production, despite the broad undercurrent of improving global fundamentals."

Locally, it is set to be a modest open, with the Australian dollar steady this morning.

At 8:00am (AEST), the Australia dollar was worth $US75.24.

Mr Atrill said some market price action across currencies, bonds and equities followed the release of a "fair bit of news" overnight.

"The net result, in FX-land, is that the Euro is [slightly] higher, as too are the Australian and New Zealand dollars, despite which the US dollar itself, in index terms, is also marginally higher," he wrote.

At the same time, West Texas Crude oil was easing to $US50.21 a barrel, a barrel of Tapis was worth $US52.48 and spot gold rose to $US1,281 an ounce.

Topics: stockmarket, currency, economic-trends, company-news, australia, european-union, united-states