This calf was adopted by horse in an (adorable) case of mistaken identity
This calf was adopted by horse in an (adorable) case of mistaken identity
We're all for interspecies friendship, but this one seems more of a case of mistaken identity. Moonshine, an old-ish mare who resides on a farm in the south-west of Queensland, Australia, was found tending to a random orphaned calf — barely a week old — by cattle grazier Gerda Glasson. "I'm thinking the calf must've got lost and I was looking around for the mother cow, but [the] calf got up and started walking over to Moonshine," Glasson told . "Moonshine put her nose down as if to say, 'this is mine,' and the calf started trying to drink." Moonshine has never raised a foal, although she did birth one a decade ago, which died. Maybe she needs a fresh opportunity in the calf. But because she doesn't produce any milk, her human owners have stepped in to feed the horse-loving baby cow. They won't be inseparable forever, though. Moonshine is a polocrosse horse for Glasson's child. "I can't see myself dragging a calf around to the polocrosse carnivals — it'll be a bit of a sight," Glasson told the news outlet. Watch the 'Broad City' women celebrate 420 with a truly magical smoke sesh Controversial speed trick has been removed in 'Mario Kart 8 Deluxe' Armie Hammer lights up in an exclusive 420 clip from 'Free Fire' 'GTA Online' is kicking it old school in new top-down stunt racing mode

We're all for interspecies friendship, but this one seems more of a case of mistaken identity.

Moonshine, an old-ish mare who resides on a farm in the south-west of Queensland, Australia, was found tending to a random orphaned calf — barely a week old — by cattle grazier Gerda Glasson.

"I'm thinking the calf must've got lost and I was looking around for the mother cow, but [the] calf got up and started walking over to Moonshine," Glasson told ABC News .

"Moonshine put her nose down as if to say, 'this is mine,' and the calf started trying to drink."

Moonshine has never raised a foal, although she did birth one a decade ago, which died. Maybe she needs a fresh opportunity in the calf. But because she doesn't produce any milk, her human owners have stepped in to feed the horse-loving baby cow.

They won't be inseparable forever, though. Moonshine is a polocrosse horse for Glasson's child.

"I can't see myself dragging a calf around to the polocrosse carnivals — it'll be a bit of a sight," Glasson told the news outlet.