Children undergo traditional Buddhist head-shaving
Children undergo traditional Buddhist head-shaving in South Korea


No child likes going for a haircut - so it is perhaps not surprising that these children reacted with shock after having their heads shaved in a traditional Buddhist ceremony in South Korea.

Eight young boys were given the treatment as part of preparations for Buddha's birthday which will be celebrated on May 3 across the country.

The shaving was carried out at the 106-year-old Jogye temple, in Seoul, which is the centre of religion for South Korea's 10.7million Seon Buddhists.

The boys, aged between five and seven, will stay at the temple for two weeks where they will be given intense lesson on Buddha's teachings before celebrations for Bucheonim osin nal - or 'the day Buddha came'.

While Buddha's exact birthday is not known, his 'coming' is commonly celebrated on the eighth day of the fourth month of the lunar calendar, which falls between late April and mid-May on Western calendars.

This is the moment eight young boys from South Korea had their heads shaved in a traditional Buddhist ceremony at the Jogye temple, in South Korea, ahead of celebrations for Buddha's birthday

The boys, aged between five and seven, enter the monastery for two weeks of strict instruction in Buddha's teachings before celebrations to mark his birthday, which will take place this year on May 3

When Buddha left his palace to live life as a pauper, one of the first things he did was shave his head. Today, Buddhist monks continue the practice as an act of devotion, and a sign that they have rejected a materialistic life in favour of a spiritual one

The Jogye temple, in Seoul, is the 106-year-old centre of religion for South Korea's 10.7million Seon Buddhists. Buddhism is the country's second-most practiced religion, after Christianity

After having their heads shaved, the boys quickly adjusted to their new look. The Jogye temple is at the centre of celebrations for Buddha's coming, and is lit up with lanterns and filled with revelers

Temples throw their doors open for celebrations of Buddha's coming, with free tea and food on offer for those who enter (pictured, a boy smiles after having his head shaved ahead of the festivities)

After having their heads shaved, the boys were fitted with traditional grey robes, known as seungbok. While orange robes are used by most Buddhist monks, in South Korea grey is preferred to symbolise the monk's devotion to a simple life

The boys are also handed lotus flower lanterns. The flowers grow on lilypads in stagnant or muddy ponds, and in Buddhism are a symbol of rising above the 'muck' of regular life to achieve enlightenment