BOX CEO Aaron Levie Talks Trump, Tech, And How To Stay Nimble As A Public Software Company
BOX CEO Aaron Levie Talks Trump, Tech, And How To Stay Nimble As A Public Software Company
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Steven Bertoni       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. BOX Inc. CEO Aaron Levie Listen to the full episode here: Aaron Levie's path to building a $2 billion publicly-traded, software company all started with a thumb-drive--or, to be more specific, his hatred of thumb-drives. As a college student in 2005, Levie was fed up with how hard it was to share data and documents. Instead of complaining, he dropped out. A few months later, he'd assembled a few entrepreneurial pals and settled outside  San Francisco to build a data-sharing platform that would be better than USB drives and clunky email systems. Today his firm Box Inc. hauls in about $400 million a year by helping more than 72,000 businesses across the globe (GE, Disney, Elly Lilly and more) manage, secure, and share their data and documents. Levie recently joined me on podcast to talk about technology, big data, the relationship between tech and Trump, and how he balances innovation and Wall Street as a public company CEO. We have to deal with all the volatility that you do in a public market. But we’ve benefited because we build and sell enterprise software, and and sustainable. By being public we can open our financials and expose it to our customers. For our business it’s been a great experience. Here’s the struggle of any public company-- The way we think that through is there’s a baseline that we have to hit which is our guidance and commitment to Wall Street. And then we are going to invest like hell to make sure that we are doing things to stay competitive in the long run. As you get bigger and bigger, the organization wants to do the more predictable and conservative thing. The tendency of the organization is to wait for a lot of data to suggest what decision you should make. But what we’ve learned as a start-up is that The New Numbers In Box's Earnings That CEO Aaron Levie Says Will Cause A "Breakthrough" Aaron Levie's Double Life: Box CEO And Tech's Court Jester Box CEO Aaron Levie's Advice For Snap On Eve Of IPO: "Be Predictable" Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Listen to the full episode here:

Aaron Levie's path to building a $2 billion publicly-traded, software company all started with a thumb-drive--or, to be more specific, his hatred of thumb-drives.

As a college student in 2005, Levie was fed up with how hard it was to share data and documents. Instead of complaining, he dropped out. A few months later, he'd assembled a few entrepreneurial pals and settled outside San Francisco to build a data-sharing platform that would be better than USB drives and clunky email systems.

Today his firm Box Inc. hauls in about $400 million a year by helping more than 72,000 businesses across the globe (GE, Disney, Elly Lilly and more) manage, secure, and share their data and documents.

Levie recently joined me on The Forbes Interview podcast to talk about technology, big data, the relationship between tech and Trump, and how he balances innovation and Wall Street as a public company CEO.

On the good side of being a public tech company:

We have to deal with all the volatility that you do in a public market. But we’ve benefited because we build and sell enterprise software, and our customers appreciate that we're public because they know they’re working with a software company that will be longterm viable and sustainable. By being public we can open our financials and expose it to our customers. For our business it’s been a great experience.

On the challenges of being a public the company:

Here’s the struggle of any public company-- at any given time we are making tradeoffs between near-term financial performance of the business versus long term strategy.

On balancing financial performance and tech innovation:

The way we think that through is there’s a baseline that we have to hit which is our guidance and commitment to Wall Street. And then we are going to invest like hell to make sure that we are doing things to stay competitive in the long run. As you get bigger and bigger, the organization wants to do the more predictable and conservative thing. The tendency of the organization is to wait for a lot of data to suggest what decision you should make. But what we’ve learned as a start-up is that some of the best decisions are the ones with very little data and instead you're going off a gut instinct about how you think the future will look.

Other FORBES stories on Aaron Levie and Box Inc.

The New Numbers In Box's Earnings That CEO Aaron Levie Says Will Cause A "Breakthrough"

Aaron Levie's Double Life: Box CEO And Tech's Court Jester

Box CEO Aaron Levie's Advice For Snap On Eve Of IPO: "Be Predictable"