Paris shooting: Election campaign halts
Paris shooting: Election campaign halts 
Paris shooting: Election campaign halts as investigation gathers pace Updated 0908 GMT (1708 HKT) April 21, 2017 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED MUST WATCH Story highlights Shooting shut down the Champs-Elysees, an area normally teeming with tourists Attack comes just days before French general election The French presidential election campaign was stopped in its tracks on Friday after a deadly attack on a police bus on the Champs-Elysees in the heart of Paris. Election campaigning paused  Coordinated attacks in Paris kill 130 people  Knife-wielding man shot dead on anniversary of Charlie Hebdo attacks  Bastille Day truck attack in Nice leaves 84 dead  Catholic priest killed after ISIS sympathizers storm church  Plot to attack Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris foiled   Police thwart 'imminent attack on French soil'  Investigation ongoing Opinion: The stakes for the French election just got higher Marine Le Pen, French presidential candidates salute police

Story highlights Shooting shut down the Champs-Elysees, an area normally teeming with tourists

Attack comes just days before French general election

Paris (CNN) The French presidential election campaign was stopped in its tracks on Friday after a deadly attack on a police bus on the Champs-Elysees in the heart of Paris.

Police on Friday arrested three family members of a known terror suspect, who killed one police officer and badly injured two others in the attack at around 9pm local time on Thursday. A second man, suspected of being linked to the shooting, surrendered himself in Belgium.

ISIS claimed that the attack -- days before the first round of voting and just as candidates were taking part in a TV debate -- was carried out by one of its "fighters," whom it called "the Belgian."

The attacker was shot dead by police at the scene. A source close to the investigation told CNN he was the subject of a "Fiche S" surveillance file and was on the radar of the French domestic security service, DGSI. The man, a French national, had a long criminal record, the source said.

On its media channel, Amaq, ISIS claimed that the attack was carried out by "Abu Yousuf al-Baljiki (the Belgian) and he is one of the Islamic State's fighters." It was not clear whether ISIS was referring to the man who surrendered himself in Antwerp.