Prince Reigns Over Adele And All Other Artists For Top Music Sales
Prince Reigns Over Adele And All Other Artists For Top Music Sales
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Melinda Newman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Prince at the 10th Anniversary Essence Music Festival at the Superdome on July 2, 2004 in New Orleans, Louisiana. (Photo by Chris Graythen/Getty Images) As the crass adage goes, death is a good career move. A year following his April 21 death, Prince’s catalog has sold more music than any other artist. Through the week ending April 13, his albums and songs moved more than 7.7 million copies over the past 12 months, according to Nielsen Music. As Billboard reports , 2.3 million came from album sales, with the remaining 5.4 million from individual song downloads. His album total bested Adele’s 2.2 million albums sold in the same time period. To put Prince’s feat into perspective, since Nielsen began tracking digital downloads in 2003, Prince has sold 18.6 downloads, meaning almost one-third of his total download sales have come since his death. The most downloaded song over the past year was “Purple Rain” with 621,000 downloads. The top selling album was , which sold 668,000 units. A new greatest hits set released last November has only sold 67,000 copies. As Billboard notes, some of these numbers come with caveats: until Feb. 12, 2017, only Tidal carried Prince’s full catalog for streaming. Not surprisingly, on-demand video streaming, via such outlets as YouTube, also rose. Of Prince’s 97.6 million on-demand audio and video streams, 61 million came from on-demand video. This news comes as the fighting over Prince’s estate continues. A U.S. district court judge issued a temporary restraining order earlier today halting the release of , a six-song EP of previously unreleased Prince music. The title track, which had gone up on iTunes and Apple Music last night was yanked down, according to and Prince’s estate filed suit against the EP’s producer, George Ian Boxill. As Forbes previously reported , Boxill claims to have co-written and co-produced the songs, originally recorded in 2006. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

As the crass adage goes, death is a good career move. A year following his April 21 death, Prince’s catalog has sold more music than any other artist.

Through the week ending April 13, his albums and songs moved more than 7.7 million copies over the past 12 months, according to Nielsen Music. As Billboard reports, 2.3 million came from album sales, with the remaining 5.4 million from individual song downloads.

His album total bested Adele’s 2.2 million albums sold in the same time period.

To put Prince’s feat into perspective, since Nielsen began tracking digital downloads in 2003, Prince has sold 18.6 downloads, meaning almost one-third of his total download sales have come since his death. The most downloaded song over the past year was “Purple Rain” with 621,000 downloads. The top selling album was The Very Best of Prince, which sold 668,000 units. A new greatest hits set released last November has only sold 67,000 copies.

As Billboard notes, some of these numbers come with caveats: until Feb. 12, 2017, only Tidal carried Prince’s full catalog for streaming. Not surprisingly, on-demand video streaming, via such outlets as YouTube, also rose. Of Prince’s 97.6 million on-demand audio and video streams, 61 million came from on-demand video.

This news comes as the fighting over Prince’s estate continues. A U.S. district court judge issued a temporary restraining order earlier today halting the release of Deliverance, a six-song EP of previously unreleased Prince music. The title track, which had gone up on iTunes and Apple Music last night was yanked down, according to Rolling Stone, and Prince’s estate filed suit against the EP’s producer, George Ian Boxill. As Forbes previously reported, Boxill claims to have co-written and co-produced the songs, originally recorded in 2006.