How Greylock VC Asheem Chandna Keeps Racking Up Billion-Dollar Outcomes
How Greylock VC Asheem Chandna Keeps Racking Up Billion-Dollar Outcomes
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Alex Konrad       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Credit: Rubrik Greylock partner Asheem Chandna at left with Rubrik CEO Bipul Sinha and key members of his team: CTO Arvind Nithrakashyap, VP of engineering Arvind Jain and architect Soham Mazumdar. When AppDynamics was acquired by Cisco for $3.7 billion just days before the app performance company was set to go public in January 2017, one of the biggest shareholders was Asheem Chandna, representing Sand Hill Road venture capital firm Greylock Partners. Bespectacled, slight of build and soft-spoken, Chandna projects as someone who could be mistaken for a professor on the nearby campus of Stanford University, where he goes to jog and hike. But Chandna had played a major role in AppDynamics' path to multi-billion exit—including a transition from its founder to CEO. AppDynamics wasn't a fluke for Chandna or Greylock. The investor, who moves to #28 on the Midas List in 2017 , was also an early investor in two $10 billion market cap enterprise companies in Palo Alto Networks, which went public in 2012, and Arista Networks, which went public in 2012. Another, Sourcefire, was acquired for $2.7 billion by Cisco for $2.7 billion in 2013. Two of his active portfolio, Rubrik and Skyhigh Networks, are valued north of $100 million; add up Chandna's investments and he's returned 10x the capital he's bet on startups back to Greylock, for a combined market capitalization of more than $33 billion. Now as one of Chandna's newest investments, Awake Networks, gears up to make public its security tools, caught up with some of the Midas investors' portfolio founders and CEOs to find out what separates a great enterprise investor from a good one. 2017 Midas List: The Top 20 Skyhigh Networks CEO Rajiv Gupta calls Chandna "the most connected person in Silicon Valley." While many might give that title to more public faces such as Ron Conway or Marc Andreessen, Chandna's strength, his founders say, is that he knows more mid-level executives at big tech companies than anybody. Chandna had first met Gupta in 2004, when Gupta was starting a company called Securent that would be acquired by Cisco in 2007 for $100 million. Gupta was set on a different investor; Chandna met him at the lobby of the Fairmont hotel in San Jose and convinced him to change his mind. Years later, when Gupta was founding cloud visibility company Skyhigh, Chandna was his first call. And after Greylock led Skyhigh's Series A round in 2012, Chandna introduced the company to customers and partners, most importantly resellers who created a channel for indirect sales for Skyhigh that Gupta says he would've waited for years to set up otherwise. Five years since its IPO, Palo Alto Networks keeps Chandna on its board despite Greylock long since distributing its shares in the company. "He's as helpful in talent identification today as he was then and in the years prior to that," says CEO Mark McLaughlin. At cloud data manager Rubrik, CEO Bipul Sinha knows first-hand what investors should bring to the table—the cofounder was formerly a full-time VC himself at Lightspeed Venture Partners. Quickly Chandna proved his value when Sinha and his company were looking for a new vice president of sales for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Chandna recommended an executive he'd met through one of his previous portfolio companies. The sales pro was too experienced for Sinha's team to think they could hire them that early in the company's history, if not for Chandna, who personally brought in the hire. The same story's played out with some of Rubrik's recent partnerships, which Sinha declines to name specifically but implies are significant to the company's success. "These are partnerships that are a little bit around the corner," he says. "Ones that aren't obvious." At AppDynamics, Chandna introduced the company to its first vice presidents of marketing and sales. With the marketing leader, the company was close to hiring someone else when Chandna got an email from an executive he'd been tracking. "I said, 'I'm calling you this afternoon, don't make a move,'" he says now. Four days later the executive was an AppDynamics employee. For the sales leader, he digged into his rolodex to find an executive running sales at McAfee and convinced him to meet with the young company. Across his portfolio, the average percentage of customers introduced to the startups in their first three years would average between 10% and 30%, says Chandna. "He's able to cast a very wide net, fidning the people who have unique capabilities," says Shlomo Kramer, CEO of Cato Networks, whom Chandna backed at Imperva and who before that was Chandna's boss at cybersecurity company Check Point Software 22 years ago. "Asheem was born to be a VC." Some firms such as Founders Fund pride themselves on acting hands-off with their portfolio investments. For Chandna, some of his biggest wins have come in an opposite way, incubating the companies from their beginnings out of Greylock. That was the case with Nir Zuk, who incubated Palo Alto Networks out of Greylock's offices; billionaire Aneel Bhusri , an advisory partner at Greylock, did the same with Workday, where he's still CEO. Most recently Chandna's been working with Michael Callahan, a two-time Greylock founder who spent a few months at the firm recently as an entrepreneur-in-residence. During that stay, Chandna approached Callahan to share some ideas he was looking at in the cloud and security. "He drew my attention to some challenges that if we could address them, would have a real impact," says Callahan. Out of that would come the kernel of Awake Networks, which raised its Series A quietly from Greylock in 2015. Callahan says that while he was taking a salary from Greylock and "eating their lunches," he had no obligation to have the firm lead the investment in his company. While he planned for Greylock to take some of the round anyway, he anticipated working with several firms given the high amount of money he'd need to get off the ground, more than he'd estimated with Chandna in the weeks before. "Forty-five minutes after our pitch meeting, Asheem says, don't worry about anyone else, we will put up the whole check. Don't talk to anybody else." Awake Networks is still stealthy, but Callahan says his company is working to solve the problem of security teams in large organizations not having the tools to properly do their jobs and keep an organization safe. Awake is currently deployed with a number of customers, he says, after two years of developing its technology; it's since moved out of Greylock into its own office. David Wadhwani was recruited by Asheem Chandna from a promising career at Adobe to become CEO at AppDynamics. (Credit: David Paul Morris / Bloomberg) At several of Chandna's most successful exits, the CEO with which the company ended its journey to IPO or acquisition wasn't the one who started it all. The most high profile was AppDynamics, which appointed David Wadhwani CEO in September 2015. Wadhwani was an executive at Adobe at the time, one rumored to be on the short list of potential successors to run the whole company. Chandna asked Wadhwani to dinner at his office. The executive wasn't interested, but walked away thinking they'd be friends. But Chandna kept meeting, and meeting. "I said no many times," says Wadhwani now. "Eventually his passion for the company and the space made me realize this was something special." After meeting with founder Jyoti Bansal several times, the three agreed that Bansal would move to a chairman role. Palo Alto Networks replaced its CEO twice with current chief executive McLaughlin's hire in 2011. Sourcefire appointed a new CEO in April 2013, just six months before it was acquired. Arista Networks brought in Jayshree Ullal in 2008. Chandna says the decision to replace a CEO is always a combined one, but that he's not afraid to tell founders truths that might not win him a popularity contest. "Most enterprise companies don't get to the scale that AppDynamics did, or the opportunity ahead," he says." If you do get to that, it becomes a question of, how does a product visionary also develop leadership skills? If you ask what's holding a company back, it's usually the people dimension." Replacing a CEO, however, remains a fraught task. With Bansal, who declined to comment for this story, Chandna calls the replacement process "delicate." And while he says that many of the transitions in his portfolio have happened collaboratively and without drama—founders recognizing that they'd rather focus on the technology or product than scaling a business and managing other leaders—Chandna admits: "These searches are brutal, they're emotionally draining." The most important thing, he believes, is for investors to remain intellectually honest and truthful in their assessments of a company's opportunity and management's skillsets for getting it there. "Generally the people in the room know what the issues are," he says. "They know what the elephants in the room are." At Skyhigh Networks, Gupta says that Chandna's affable, quiet demeanor makes it "possible to underestimate" him. He'd be disappointed and surprised, he says, if Chandna ever felt the company would do better under different leadership and didn't frankly let him know. "He's emotionally honest," says Sinha at Rubrik. "In addition to being a founder, I'm also a shareholder of the company who wants it to have the best opportunity possible. The day I feel I am not the best person to lead this business, I will step aside," says Rubrik's CEO. "People's livelihoods are tied to the company." Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Credit: Rubrik

When AppDynamics was acquired by Cisco for $3.7 billion just days before the app performance company was set to go public in January 2017, one of the biggest shareholders was Asheem Chandna, representing Sand Hill Road venture capital firm Greylock Partners. Bespectacled, slight of build and soft-spoken, Chandna projects as someone who could be mistaken for a professor on the nearby campus of Stanford University, where he goes to jog and hike. But Chandna had played a major role in AppDynamics' path to multi-billion exit—including a transition from its founder to CEO.

AppDynamics wasn't a fluke for Chandna or Greylock. The investor, who moves to #28 on the Midas List in 2017, was also an early investor in two $10 billion market cap enterprise companies in Palo Alto Networks, which went public in 2012, and Arista Networks, which went public in 2012. Another, Sourcefire, was acquired for $2.7 billion by Cisco for $2.7 billion in 2013. Two of his active portfolio, Rubrik and Skyhigh Networks, are valued north of $100 million; add up Chandna's investments and he's returned 10x the capital he's bet on startups back to Greylock, for a combined market capitalization of more than $33 billion.

Now as one of Chandna's newest investments, Awake Networks, gears up to make public its security tools, Forbes caught up with some of the Midas investors' portfolio founders and CEOs to find out what separates a great enterprise investor from a good one.

The networker

Skyhigh Networks CEO Rajiv Gupta calls Chandna "the most connected person in Silicon Valley." While many might give that title to more public faces such as Ron Conway or Marc Andreessen, Chandna's strength, his founders say, is that he knows more mid-level executives at big tech companies than anybody. Chandna had first met Gupta in 2004, when Gupta was starting a company called Securent that would be acquired by Cisco in 2007 for $100 million. Gupta was set on a different investor; Chandna met him at the lobby of the Fairmont hotel in San Jose and convinced him to change his mind. Years later, when Gupta was founding cloud visibility company Skyhigh, Chandna was his first call. And after Greylock led Skyhigh's Series A round in 2012, Chandna introduced the company to customers and partners, most importantly resellers who created a channel for indirect sales for Skyhigh that Gupta says he would've waited for years to set up otherwise.

Five years since its IPO, Palo Alto Networks keeps Chandna on its board despite Greylock long since distributing its shares in the company. "He's as helpful in talent identification today as he was then and in the years prior to that," says CEO Mark McLaughlin. At cloud data manager Rubrik, CEO Bipul Sinha knows first-hand what investors should bring to the table—the cofounder was formerly a full-time VC himself at Lightspeed Venture Partners. Quickly Chandna proved his value when Sinha and his company were looking for a new vice president of sales for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Chandna recommended an executive he'd met through one of his previous portfolio companies. The sales pro was too experienced for Sinha's team to think they could hire them that early in the company's history, if not for Chandna, who personally brought in the hire. The same story's played out with some of Rubrik's recent partnerships, which Sinha declines to name specifically but implies are significant to the company's success. "These are partnerships that are a little bit around the corner," he says. "Ones that aren't obvious."

At AppDynamics, Chandna introduced the company to its first vice presidents of marketing and sales. With the marketing leader, the company was close to hiring someone else when Chandna got an email from an executive he'd been tracking. "I said, 'I'm calling you this afternoon, don't make a move,'" he says now. Four days later the executive was an AppDynamics employee. For the sales leader, he digged into his rolodex to find an executive running sales at McAfee and convinced him to meet with the young company. Across his portfolio, the average percentage of customers introduced to the startups in their first three years would average between 10% and 30%, says Chandna. "He's able to cast a very wide net, fidning the people who have unique capabilities," says Shlomo Kramer, CEO of Cato Networks, whom Chandna backed at Imperva and who before that was Chandna's boss at cybersecurity company Check Point Software 22 years ago. "Asheem was born to be a VC."

The incubator

Some firms such as Founders Fund pride themselves on acting hands-off with their portfolio investments. For Chandna, some of his biggest wins have come in an opposite way, incubating the companies from their beginnings out of Greylock. That was the case with Nir Zuk, who incubated Palo Alto Networks out of Greylock's offices; billionaire Aneel Bhusri, an advisory partner at Greylock, did the same with Workday, where he's still CEO.

Most recently Chandna's been working with Michael Callahan, a two-time Greylock founder who spent a few months at the firm recently as an entrepreneur-in-residence. During that stay, Chandna approached Callahan to share some ideas he was looking at in the cloud and security. "He drew my attention to some challenges that if we could address them, would have a real impact," says Callahan. Out of that would come the kernel of Awake Networks, which raised its Series A quietly from Greylock in 2015. Callahan says that while he was taking a salary from Greylock and "eating their lunches," he had no obligation to have the firm lead the investment in his company. While he planned for Greylock to take some of the round anyway, he anticipated working with several firms given the high amount of money he'd need to get off the ground, more than he'd estimated with Chandna in the weeks before. "Forty-five minutes after our pitch meeting, Asheem says, don't worry about anyone else, we will put up the whole check. Don't talk to anybody else."

Awake Networks is still stealthy, but Callahan says his company is working to solve the problem of security teams in large organizations not having the tools to properly do their jobs and keep an organization safe. Awake is currently deployed with a number of customers, he says, after two years of developing its technology; it's since moved out of Greylock into its own office.

The CEO replacer

At several of Chandna's most successful exits, the CEO with which the company ended its journey to IPO or acquisition wasn't the one who started it all. The most high profile was AppDynamics, which appointed David Wadhwani CEO in September 2015. Wadhwani was an executive at Adobe at the time, one rumored to be on the short list of potential successors to run the whole company. Chandna asked Wadhwani to dinner at his office. The executive wasn't interested, but walked away thinking they'd be friends. But Chandna kept meeting, and meeting. "I said no many times," says Wadhwani now. "Eventually his passion for the company and the space made me realize this was something special." After meeting with founder Jyoti Bansal several times, the three agreed that Bansal would move to a chairman role.

Palo Alto Networks replaced its CEO twice with current chief executive McLaughlin's hire in 2011. Sourcefire appointed a new CEO in April 2013, just six months before it was acquired. Arista Networks brought in Jayshree Ullal in 2008. Chandna says the decision to replace a CEO is always a combined one, but that he's not afraid to tell founders truths that might not win him a popularity contest. "Most enterprise companies don't get to the scale that AppDynamics did, or the opportunity ahead," he says." If you do get to that, it becomes a question of, how does a product visionary also develop leadership skills? If you ask what's holding a company back, it's usually the people dimension."

Replacing a CEO, however, remains a fraught task. With Bansal, who declined to comment for this story, Chandna calls the replacement process "delicate." And while he says that many of the transitions in his portfolio have happened collaboratively and without drama—founders recognizing that they'd rather focus on the technology or product than scaling a business and managing other leaders—Chandna admits: "These searches are brutal, they're emotionally draining." The most important thing, he believes, is for investors to remain intellectually honest and truthful in their assessments of a company's opportunity and management's skillsets for getting it there. "Generally the people in the room know what the issues are," he says. "They know what the elephants in the room are."

At Skyhigh Networks, Gupta says that Chandna's affable, quiet demeanor makes it "possible to underestimate" him. He'd be disappointed and surprised, he says, if Chandna ever felt the company would do better under different leadership and didn't frankly let him know. "He's emotionally honest," says Sinha at Rubrik. "In addition to being a founder, I'm also a shareholder of the company who wants it to have the best opportunity possible. The day I feel I am not the best person to lead this business, I will step aside," says Rubrik's CEO. "People's livelihoods are tied to the company."

See the full 2017 Midas List here.

Follow along on social media: #ForbesMidas

Follow Alex on Forbes, Twitter and Facebook for more coverage of startups, enterprise software and venture capital.