MH370 likely in new search area,say Australian scientists
Ocean drift analysis shows MH370 most likely in new search area


Australian scientists claim the location of missing Malaysia Airlines MH370 is north of the original search area, in a previously rejected location.

New ocean debris drift analysis confirms that the most likely location of MH370 is a new 25,000 sq km area, north of the original 120,000 sq km search area, Australia's chief science agency, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) said in its new report.

The Boeing 777 aircraft vanished en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014 with 239 people on board and its disappearance is one of the greatest aviation mysteries.

New ocean debris drift analysis using a modified Boeing 777 wing (pictured) confirms that the most likely location of Malaysia Airlines MH370 is north of the original search area

The Boeing 777 aircraft disappeared en route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8, 2014 with 239 people on board and is one of the greatest aviation mysteries (stock image)

The new area was revealed in December, and the Australian Transport Safety Bureau chief commissioner Greg Hood has described it as 'highly likely' that the area identified by experts contains the aircraft.

However Transport Ministers from Malaysia, China and Australia were unmoved and suspended the search until 'credible new evidence' was found.

The $AUD200 million ($USD150.54 million) search for the aircraft was suspended when Malaysia and Australia rejected a recommendation to search north of the 120,000 sq km area already canvassed, saying the new area was too imprecise.

The new debris drift analysis suggests the missing Boeing 777 may be located in a much smaller 25,000 sq km (9,652 sq mile) zone within that proposed northern search area.

A CSIRO research team led by Dr David Griffin said their latest testing had used a Boeing 777 flaperon - part of a plane's wing - that was identically damaged to the MH370 flaperon found at La Reunion Island near Africa in July 2015.

The tests involved seeing how the flaperon drifted through the water, whether it went straight downwind, or off at an angle, and at what speed through the water.

New ocean debris drift analysis confirms that the most likely location of MH370 is a new 25,000 sq km area, north of the original 120,000 sq km search area, Australia's chief science agency said

A Boeing 777 flaperon (L) cut down to match the one from flight MH370 found on Reunion island off the coast of Africa in 2015, floats after being lowered into water by CSIRO team

Previous tests had involved using inexact replicas, but Dr Griffin said testing an almost identical flaperon 'added an extra level of assurance to the findings from our earlier drift modelling work'.

The arrival of MH370's flaperon at La Reunion now made perfect sense, he said.

'It indicates that the most likely location of MH370 is in the new search area,' Dr Griffin said.

'We cannot be absolutely certain, but that is where all the evidence we have points us, and this new work leaves us more confident in our findings.'

'Knowing how the flaperon, and the other parts of MH370 that have been found, respond to wind and waves is just as important as knowing the currents of the Indian Ocean.'

Previous tests had involved using inexact replicas, but Dr Griffin said testing an almost identical flaperon 'added an extra level of assurance'

The new area was revealed in December, and the Australian Transport Safety Bureau chief commissioner Greg Hood has described it as 'highly likely' that the area contains the aircraft

'We've found that an actual flaperon drifts about 20 degrees to the left, and faster than the replicas, as we thought it might,' said Griffin.

'The arrival of MH370´s flaperon at La Reunion in July 2015 now makes perfect sense.'

Australian Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Darren Chester said he welcomed the new CSIRO report but said it was important to note it did not provide new evidence leading to a specific location of MH370.

He said a copy of the report had been provided to Malaysia for consideration in its ongoing investigation into the disappearance of the aircraft.

'Malaysia is the lead investigator and any future requests in relation to searching for MH370 would be considered by Australia, at that time,' Chester said.