Juicero And United: Two Real-Time Case Studies In Crisis PR For Entrepreneurs
Juicero And United: Two Real-Time Case Studies In Crisis PR For Entrepreneurs
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Robert Wynne       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Juicero Juicero's high-tech pricey juicer The last two weeks have created a goldmine for the crisis public relations industry, or at least for the pundits who comment about reputation train wrecks. United Airlines, Bill O’Reilly and now Juicero are dominating the news. After the video of a passenger being dragged off a United Airlines flight in Chicago to make room for United employees went viral, the media, PR experts, the public, and the rest of the airline industry, predictably and rightfully so, went ballistic. Besides the incredibly rude act, the blunders multiplied. After refusing to pay a decent voucher for the inconvenience of being removed, airline management initially refused to apologize and blamed the passenger. They appeared to justify the physical response. Then they sort of apologized, but not really, citing “airline rules.” Finally, after the stock dipped and the public turned on them, they pledged to do better in the future. The glacial response allowed the media to find many other examples of this practice, extending the life of the story and deepening the damage. Leona Helmsley couldn’t have done worse. This week Juicero entered the crisis zone. We haven’t heard this much uproar about “The Juice” since a white Ford Bronco raced across the 405 towards Brentwood. If you missed it, the Juicero machine, which squeezes juice packets of fruits and vegetables via a Keurig-like machine, has swallowed some pulp. A Bloomberg News story, “Silicon Valley’s $400 Juicer May Be Feeling the Squeeze,” demonstrated that a reporter could crush the bag almost as well as the machine. This development, after much Silicon Valley hype, hasn’t played well. “Doug Evans, the company’s founder, would compare himself with Steve Jobs in his pursuit of juicing perfection,” Bloomberg noted.” He declared that his juice press wields four tons of force—“enough to lift two Teslas,” he said. Google’s venture capital arm and other backers poured about $120 million into the startup. Juicero sells the machine for $400, plus the cost of individual juice packs delivered weekly. Tech blogs have dubbed it a “Keurig for juice.” After those promises, much was expected, but then, a surprise. “After the product hit the market, some investors were surprised to discover a much cheaper alternative: You can squeeze the Juicero bags with your bare hands.” Ouch. “Bloomberg performed its own press test, pitting a Juicero machine against a reporter’s grip. The experiment found that squeezing the bag yields nearly the same amount of juice just as quickly—and in some cases, faster—than using the device.” Before raking Juicero over the coals, or in this case, the kale fields, let’s examine what they did right. The CEO Jeff Dunn posted a quick response to the crisis on Medium. The tone was almost perfect, concerned but not panicked, confident but not arrogant. After pumping up the company and defending their product, he launched into a well-written defense. “The sum of the system — the Press, Produce Packs and App — working together is what enables a great experience,” Dunn said. “However, you won’t experience that value by hand-squeezing Produce Packs, which to be clear, contain nothing but fresh, raw, organic chopped produce, not juice. What you will get with hand-squeezed hacks is a mediocre (and maybe very messy) experience that you won’t want to repeat once, let alone every day.” Finally, and probably a little too far down into his response, he offers a full money back guarantee. Well done. “While it is never easy to face some of this week’s headlines and critiques, we’re still learning, listening, and improving, and we confidently stand behind our promise to help people on their journey to health. So, for the next 30 days, we’ve decided to extend our Happiness Guarantee to any Juicero customer — new or old — who feels that we aren’t making it easier, more enjoyable and delicious to form a healthy habit. That means that if you send us your Press, we’ll refund the money you paid for it. Period.” Maybe Juicero learned from United, or maybe they were just well prepared. Regardless, they came across as honest and thoughtful. In a PR crisis, you can’t hope for more than that. Now as for Bill O’Reilly losing his nightly program on Fox News, you could argue either way. Many will claim Fox made the right call, but what took them so long? Those who believe O’Reilly leaves under a shameful cloud have to admit he went out well-compensated. The New York Times reported his severance package at close to $25 million. That will buy a lot juice machines. And a private plane. Robert Wynne owns a public relations agency in Redondo Beach, CA. He is the author of the upcoming book, "Straight Talk About Public Relations" available June 13. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Juicero

The last two weeks have created a goldmine for the crisis public relations industry, or at least for the pundits who comment about reputation train wrecks. United Airlines, Bill O’Reilly and now Juicero are dominating the news.

After the video of a passenger being dragged off a United Airlines flight in Chicago to make room for United employees went viral, the media, PR experts, the public, and the rest of the airline industry, predictably and rightfully so, went ballistic.

Besides the incredibly rude act, the blunders multiplied. After refusing to pay a decent voucher for the inconvenience of being removed, airline management initially refused to apologize and blamed the passenger. They appeared to justify the physical response. Then they sort of apologized, but not really, citing “airline rules.” Finally, after the stock dipped and the public turned on them, they pledged to do better in the future.

The glacial response allowed the media to find many other examples of this practice, extending the life of the story and deepening the damage. Leona Helmsley couldn’t have done worse.

This week Juicero entered the crisis zone. We haven’t heard this much uproar about “The Juice” since a white Ford Bronco raced across the 405 towards Brentwood.

If you missed it, the Juicero machine, which squeezes juice packets of fruits and vegetables via a Keurig-like machine, has swallowed some pulp. A Bloomberg News story, “Silicon Valley’s $400 Juicer May Be Feeling the Squeeze,” demonstrated that a reporter could crush the bag almost as well as the machine.

This development, after much Silicon Valley hype, hasn’t played well.

“Doug Evans, the company’s founder, would compare himself with Steve Jobs in his pursuit of juicing perfection,” Bloomberg noted.” He declared that his juice press wields four tons of force—“enough to lift two Teslas,” he said. Google’s venture capital arm and other backers poured about $120 million into the startup. Juicero sells the machine for $400, plus the cost of individual juice packs delivered weekly. Tech blogs have dubbed it a “Keurig for juice.”

After those promises, much was expected, but then, a surprise. “After the product hit the market, some investors were surprised to discover a much cheaper alternative: You can squeeze the Juicero bags with your bare hands.”

Ouch.

“Bloomberg performed its own press test, pitting a Juicero machine against a reporter’s grip. The experiment found that squeezing the bag yields nearly the same amount of juice just as quickly—and in some cases, faster—than using the device.”

Before raking Juicero over the coals, or in this case, the kale fields, let’s examine what they did right. The CEO Jeff Dunn posted a quick response to the crisis on Medium.

The tone was almost perfect, concerned but not panicked, confident but not arrogant. After pumping up the company and defending their product, he launched into a well-written defense.

“The sum of the system — the Press, Produce Packs and App — working together is what enables a great experience,” Dunn said. “However, you won’t experience that value by hand-squeezing Produce Packs, which to be clear, contain nothing but fresh, raw, organic chopped produce, not juice. What you will get with hand-squeezed hacks is a mediocre (and maybe very messy) experience that you won’t want to repeat once, let alone every day.”

Finally, and probably a little too far down into his response, he offers a full money back guarantee. Well done.

“While it is never easy to face some of this week’s headlines and critiques, we’re still learning, listening, and improving, and we confidently stand behind our promise to help people on their journey to health. So, for the next 30 days, we’ve decided to extend our Happiness Guarantee to any Juicero customer — new or old — who feels that we aren’t making it easier, more enjoyable and delicious to form a healthy habit. That means that if you send us your Press, we’ll refund the money you paid for it. Period.”

Maybe Juicero learned from United, or maybe they were just well prepared. Regardless, they came across as honest and thoughtful. In a PR crisis, you can’t hope for more than that.

Now as for Bill O’Reilly losing his nightly program on Fox News, you could argue either way. Many will claim Fox made the right call, but what took them so long? Those who believe O’Reilly leaves under a shameful cloud have to admit he went out well-compensated. The New York Times reported his severance package at close to $25 million. That will buy a lot juice machines. And a private plane.

Robert Wynne owns a public relations agency in Redondo Beach, CA. He is the author of the upcoming book, "Straight Talk About Public Relations" available June 13.