7 Steps To Rebound From Student Loan Refinancing Rejection
7 Steps To Rebound From Student Loan Refinancing Rejection
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Zack Friedman       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Shutterstock Refinancing your student loans comes with many benefits : a lower interest rate, a lower monthly payment, one combined loan and the opportunity to pay off your student loans faster. That means that over the life of your student loans, you potentially could save up to tens of thousands of dollars. So, you check your new interest rate, prepare your application, assemble your documents and wait for a response. But, then rejection strikes and the dream of all those savings quickly fades. What do you do next? You Make Lemonade. Here's how to rebound from student loan refinancing rejection: Student loan refinancing is an excellent tool to help lessen the financial burden of student loan repayment. However, getting approved for student loan refinancing is not guaranteed. Why? While the federal government issues student loans, the federal government does not refinance student loans. Therefore, if you want to refinance student loans, you have to refinance only with a private lender. Each private lender has its own eligibility criteria, underwriting requirements and approval processes. If one lender denies your application, the good news is that you can still apply to another lender - or reapply to the same lender - to obtain approval. If your application is denied, the lender has to provide a reason for the denial. Some common reasons for denial include: If you are unemployed or have low income, lenders may question your ability to meet your monthly life expenses, including debt obligations such as student loan payments. This ratio is expressed as a percentage, and measures the amount of your monthly debt payments as a percentage of your monthly income. Lenders understand that you may have other debt obligations such as a mortgage, but they want to make sure you can pay your student loan debt, other debt and life expenses. Many lenders want to ensure that you have stable employment, or at least a written job offer. This means that it can be difficult to refinance your student loans while you are unemployed, a student or a recent college graduate without sufficient work experience. However, some lenders will refinance student loans for medical residents or third year law school students with a written job offer, for example. Lenders want you to demonstrate a history of financial responsibility. Your credit score is one way to measure your financial health. If your credit score is too low, you may be ineligible to refinance student loans. Most lenders require a minimum credit score in the mid 600's. A rejection from one lender does not preclude you from receiving approval from another lender. Remember that each lender has its own eligibility and underwriting criteria. Therefore, you should apply to multiple lenders to increase your chances for approval and to find the lowest rate on your student loans. A student loan refinancing application takes only two minutes to receive your new interest rate. If you apply to multiple lenders within 30 days, typically this is treated as a single inquiry on your credit report. Ask your spouse, parent, grandparent or someone else close to you to act as a co-signer for your student loans. Your co-signer needs to have a strong credit profile and income, and be willing to be equally responsible with you for your student loan. Having a qualified co-signer can make the difference between "approved" and "denied" The good news for your co-signer is that after you are approved to refinance your student loans, many student loan lenders offer a co-signer release, which releases your co-signer of financial responsibility if the co-signer and you can meet certain qualifications. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Refinancing your student loans comes with many benefits: a lower interest rate, a lower monthly payment, one combined loan and the opportunity to pay off your student loans faster.

That means that over the life of your student loans, you potentially could save up to tens of thousands of dollars.

So, you check your new interest rate, prepare your application, assemble your documents and wait for a response.

But, then rejection strikes and the dream of all those savings quickly fades.

What do you do next?

You Make Lemonade. Here's how to rebound from student loan refinancing rejection:

Step 1: Diagnose the problem

Student loan refinancing is an excellent tool to help lessen the financial burden of student loan repayment.

However, getting approved for student loan refinancing is not guaranteed. Why? While the federal government issues student loans, the federal government does not refinance student loans. Therefore, if you want to refinance student loans, you have to refinance only with a private lender.

Each private lender has its own eligibility criteria, underwriting requirements and approval processes. If one lender denies your application, the good news is that you can still apply to another lender - or reapply to the same lender - to obtain approval.

If your application is denied, the lender has to provide a reason for the denial. Some common reasons for denial include:

Insufficient Income: If you are unemployed or have low income, lenders may question your ability to meet your monthly life expenses, including debt obligations such as student loan payments.

High Debt/Income Ratio: This ratio is expressed as a percentage, and measures the amount of your monthly debt payments as a percentage of your monthly income. Lenders understand that you may have other debt obligations such as a mortgage, but they want to make sure you can pay your student loan debt, other debt and life expenses.

Lack of Work Experience: Many lenders want to ensure that you have stable employment, or at least a written job offer. This means that it can be difficult to refinance your student loans while you are unemployed, a student or a recent college graduate without sufficient work experience. However, some lenders will refinance student loans for medical residents or third year law school students with a written job offer, for example.

Low Credit Score: Lenders want you to demonstrate a history of financial responsibility. Your credit score is one way to measure your financial health. If your credit score is too low, you may be ineligible to refinance student loans. Most lenders require a minimum credit score in the mid 600's.

Step 2: Apply To Other Lenders

A rejection from one lender does not preclude you from receiving approval from another lender. Remember that each lender has its own eligibility and underwriting criteria. Therefore, you should apply to multiple lenders to increase your chances for approval and to find the lowest rate on your student loans.

A student loan refinancing application takes only two minutes to receive your new interest rate.

If you apply to multiple lenders within 30 days, typically this is treated as a single inquiry on your credit report.

Step 3: Get A Qualified Co-Signer

Ask your spouse, parent, grandparent or someone else close to you to act as a co-signer for your student loans. Your co-signer needs to have a strong credit profile and income, and be willing to be equally responsible with you for your student loan.

Having a qualified co-signer can make the difference between "approved" and "denied"

The good news for your co-signer is that after you are approved to refinance your student loans, many student loan lenders offer a co-signer release, which releases your co-signer of financial responsibility if the co-signer and you can meet certain qualifications.