Barack Obama Will Make First Post-Presidency Public Appearance in Chicago Next Week
Barack Obama Will Make First Post-Presidency Public Appearance in Chicago Next Week
On Friday, the office of Barack Obama announced on Monday he would make his first public appearance since he became an ex-president, thus ending a three month period of relative inactivity and relaxation. While he has released public statements defending the Affordable Care Act, and supporting protests of successor Donald Trump's travel ban, he has spent a good deal of his time vacationing in Palm Springs, California, French Polynesia, and on a Caribbean island with Richard Branson. Since you're probably wondering, he is not expected to go after Trump at the event. Instead it'll be a town hall talk, at the University of Chicago, that will be held with some young adults about "community organizing and civic engagement." The discussion is set to be Pres. No. 44's reentry into the public sphere. "This event is part of President Obama’s post-presidency goal to encourage and support the next generation of leaders driven by strengthening communities around the country and the world," said his reps in a statement, according to . Sounds like you can expect plenty of talk about how the youth can get involved with their communities, delivered with those patented William Shatner-esque pauses he always does. Should be a piece of cake compared to his old job.

On Friday, the office of Barack Obama announced on Monday he would make his first public appearance since he became an ex-president, thus ending a three month period of relative inactivity and relaxation.

While he has released public statements defending the Affordable Care Act, and supporting protests of successor Donald Trump's travel ban, he has spent a good deal of his time vacationing in Palm Springs, California, French Polynesia, and on a Caribbean island with Richard Branson.

Since you're probably wondering, he is not expected to go after Trump at the event. Instead it'll be a town hall talk, at the University of Chicago, that will be held with some young adults about "community organizing and civic engagement." The discussion is set to be Pres. No. 44's reentry into the public sphere. "This event is part of President Obama’s post-presidency goal to encourage and support the next generation of leaders driven by strengthening communities around the country and the world," said his reps in a statement, according to The Hill.

Sounds like you can expect plenty of talk about how the youth can get involved with their communities, delivered with those patented William Shatner-esque pauses he always does. Should be a piece of cake compared to his old job.