Paris attack puts security at the top of the agenda two days before French election
Paris attack could benefit the far-right two days before French election
Shares               Thursday’s shooting on the Champs-Elysees boulevard in Paris has pushed security to the top of the political agenda and added more unpredictability to a close presidential race two days before French voters head to the polls . The attack, which killed one police officer, could influence voters who will cast their ballots Sunday, analysts say. “It seems inevitable that this attack will have some impact on Sunday’s vote,” Jim Shields, professor of French politics at Aston University in Birmingham, England, told ABC News. “We have had terrorist attacks during other election campaigns but never this close to polling day.” Four candidates lead the race, which is still too tight to call – so even a small effect on the first round of voting Sunday could make a big difference, he said. “With four leading candidates running neck and neck and up to a third of voters still undecided, even a marginal effect in increasing support for a particular candidate could be decisive,” he said. This could benefit two candidates, he added: far-right leader Marine Le Pen and the conservative François Fillon, who have made security and the fight against terrorism central issues in their campaigns. The candidates who could lose votes are centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron and far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who had seen a recent surge in polls, he said.     Le Pen, slightly behind frontrunner Macron in the polls, has already reacted to the attack by saying she will introduce tougher immigration and border control, and she will likely continue to capitalize on it, said Françoise Boucek, lecturer at the School of Politics and International Relations at Queen Mary University of London. “I definitely think that it’s Le Pen who might try to capitalize on it the most because her agenda is really about internal security, anti-terrorism and anti-Islamism. She’s going to capitalize on this and say, ‘Look, that's what I’ve been saying all along,’” Boucek told ABC News. France has been under a state of emergency since November 2015. The country has seen a series of attacks that have killed nearly 240 people in the past two years. Thursday’s attack reminds voters of the security challenges the country is facing, Boucek said. “It puts internal security on the top of the agenda and on the top of people’s consciousness so I would think that this is definitely going to affect people’s decisions on Sunday,” she said. Le Pen is expected to make it to the second round, which she is then predicted to lose to Macron, according to the polls. Boucek said she’d still be surprised if Le Pen became president, even if she does get more votes than expected before Thursday’s attack.  President Trump tweeted today that the attack "will have a big effect" on the presidential election .  Another terrorist attack in Paris. The people of France will not take much more of this. Will have a big effect on presidential election!  The attack adds to an already unpredictable race, said Simon Lightfoot, senior lecturer in European Politics at the University of Leeds. Thursday’s attack is likely to benefit Le Pen and Fillon, he said. Le Pen was already expected to move on to the second round so the question is whether Fillon could now get enough votes to be the second candidate. “If it’s a runoff between two right-wing candidates; it will be quite interesting,” Lightfoot told ABC News. But the latest polls suggest that the second-round runoff on May 7 will be between Macron and Le Pen, and even if more people vote for Le Pen because of Thursday's attack, he doesn’t think the shift will be big enough for a far-right victory. “I don’t think it will change the runoff dramatically,” he said. Le Pen is an anti-European Union politician who has promised to dump the euro currency. If she wins, it could change France’s place in the world and deal a blow to the E.U., already dealing with the British exit from the bloc. Shares                  Paris attack could benefit the far-right two days before French election   Inside the cabin where Elizabeth Thomas and Tad Cummins were found   Russian aircraft fly close to Alaska for 4th time in 4 days   AG Jeff Sessions stands by his controversial Hawaii comments   ISIS leader who planned Istanbul nightclub attack killed in US ground raid   Man who tipped off authorities about missing student describes 'clues'   US pilot ejects from jet near carrier headed for Korean peninsula   Drones used for first time in major search at Grand Canyon   VP Pence aims to reassure Australia after tense Trump call   Trump had undisclosed meeting with former Colombian presidents   Fresno, California gunman enters court shouting   Power Ranger window washers thrill kid patients at hospital   4-year-old boy has meltdown over haircut before realizing it will grow back   5 dates to fly for cheaper summer airfare   Soccer jerseys show off family's co-parenting skills   Crafty corgi owners transform retro TV into chic dog bed   Mom launches Mustard Challenge after losing daughter to cancer   Firefighters throw surprise baby shower for woman who lost apartment in fire   Teen battling cancer decides to 'take control,' shaves head before chemo   Texas cop plays hopscotch with young girl during his break   Treasury denies Exxon waiver to drill in Russia   Afghan official: Army compound attacked by gunmen   Trump says 'no deal' was made for charity worker   Russia denies it is moving troops close to North Korea   Chelsea Clinton: Someday, someone's mother will be president   Volkswagen to pay $2.8 billion in US diesel emission scandal   US Defense Sec'y Mattis: Syria still has chemical weapons   Oregon man arrested after setting stranger ablaze at Denny's   Florida state senator who used racial slur resigns   Paris police-killing suspect identified   Trump says Paris attack will 'probably help' Marine Le Pen   ISIS claims responsibility for Paris attack that killed police officer, wounded 2   How the new 'Trumpcare' proposal could affect consumers   Trump signs executive actions to review tax regulations, roll back Dodd-Frank   Future of revamped health care bill remains dubious in House   Prince was 'greatest performer of his generation'   William, Kate and Harry discuss parenthood, grief over Princess Diana   3 killed in shooting at Russian intelligence agency's office   Caitlyn Jenner on how her relationship with her kids has changed   Queen Elizabeth II turns 91   'The Promise' and 'Unforgettable' among this week's new movie releases

Thursday’s shooting on the Champs-Elysees boulevard in Paris has pushed security to the top of the political agenda and added more unpredictability to a close presidential race two days before French voters head to the polls.

The attack, which killed one police officer, could influence voters who will cast their ballots Sunday, analysts say.

“It seems inevitable that this attack will have some impact on Sunday’s vote,” Jim Shields, professor of French politics at Aston University in Birmingham, England, told ABC News. “We have had terrorist attacks during other election campaigns but never this close to polling day.”

Four candidates lead the race, which is still too tight to call – so even a small effect on the first round of voting Sunday could make a big difference, he said.

“With four leading candidates running neck and neck and up to a third of voters still undecided, even a marginal effect in increasing support for a particular candidate could be decisive,” he said.

This could benefit two candidates, he added: far-right leader Marine Le Pen and the conservative François Fillon, who have made security and the fight against terrorism central issues in their campaigns. The candidates who could lose votes are centrist candidate Emmanuel Macron and far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon, who had seen a recent surge in polls, he said.

Le Pen, slightly behind frontrunner Macron in the polls, has already reacted to the attack by saying she will introduce tougher immigration and border control, and she will likely continue to capitalize on it, said Françoise Boucek, lecturer at the School of Politics and International Relations at Queen Mary University of London.

“I definitely think that it’s Le Pen who might try to capitalize on it the most because her agenda is really about internal security, anti-terrorism and anti-Islamism. She’s going to capitalize on this and say, ‘Look, that's what I’ve been saying all along,’” Boucek told ABC News.

France has been under a state of emergency since November 2015. The country has seen a series of attacks that have killed nearly 240 people in the past two years. Thursday’s attack reminds voters of the security challenges the country is facing, Boucek said.

“It puts internal security on the top of the agenda and on the top of people’s consciousness so I would think that this is definitely going to affect people’s decisions on Sunday,” she said.

Le Pen is expected to make it to the second round, which she is then predicted to lose to Macron, according to the polls. Boucek said she’d still be surprised if Le Pen became president, even if she does get more votes than expected before Thursday’s attack.

President Trump tweeted today that the attack "will have a big effect" on the presidential election.

Another terrorist attack in Paris. The people of France will not take much more of this. Will have a big effect on presidential election! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2017

The attack adds to an already unpredictable race, said Simon Lightfoot, senior lecturer in European Politics at the University of Leeds.

Thursday’s attack is likely to benefit Le Pen and Fillon, he said. Le Pen was already expected to move on to the second round so the question is whether Fillon could now get enough votes to be the second candidate.

“If it’s a runoff between two right-wing candidates; it will be quite interesting,” Lightfoot told ABC News.

But the latest polls suggest that the second-round runoff on May 7 will be between Macron and Le Pen, and even if more people vote for Le Pen because of Thursday's attack, he doesn’t think the shift will be big enough for a far-right victory.

“I don’t think it will change the runoff dramatically,” he said.

Le Pen is an anti-European Union politician who has promised to dump the euro currency. If she wins, it could change France’s place in the world and deal a blow to the E.U., already dealing with the British exit from the bloc.