'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2' won't be the Guardians' only big adventure this summer
'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2' won't be the Guardians' only big adventure this summer
Can't get enough of the Guardians of the Galaxy, but don't have the means to join them in outer space? Well, then, you're in luck, because the a-holes' next adventure brings them a little closer to home. SEE ALSO: This 'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2' homemade trailer is so similar to the original that even we were confused Disney has unveiled the first look at , the new ride coming to Anaheim's California Adventure theme park this summer. (It replaces the , to the regret of some old-school Disney fans.) As explained by lead designer and Disney Imagineer Joe Rohde in the video above, follows an entirely original storyline in which the Guardians have been taken prisoner by Taneleer Tivan, the Collector, and must find their way to freedom. In bringing the world of the from the big screen to the theme park, Rohde had help from several people directly involved with the movies, including director James Gunn, composer Tyler Bates, and Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige. The result, Rohde promised to , is "an extension of the world that you're familiar with" – right down to the -worthy soundtrack, which includes the Jackson 5's "I Want You Back." Click on the video above to take a peek. If you're into it, opens May 27 at Disney California Adventure. Head into the weekend like David Hasselhoff rapping on 'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2' Rachael Leigh Cook puts an updated spin on classic anti-drug PSA Anne Hathaway and James Corden perform an entire rom-com in 5 minutes It was chill of Zayn to release the 'Still Got Time' video the day after 420

Can't get enough of the Guardians of the Galaxy, but don't have the means to join them in outer space?

Well, then, you're in luck, because the a-holes' next adventure brings them a little closer to home.

Disney has unveiled the first look at Guardians of the Galaxy – Mission: Breakout!, the new ride coming to Anaheim's California Adventure theme park this summer. (It replaces the Tower of Terror, to the regret of some old-school Disney fans.)

As explained by lead designer and Disney Imagineer Joe Rohde in the video above, Mission: Breakout! follows an entirely original storyline in which the Guardians have been taken prisoner by Taneleer Tivan, the Collector, and must find their way to freedom.

In bringing the world of the Guardians from the big screen to the theme park, Rohde had help from several people directly involved with the Guardians movies, including director James Gunn, composer Tyler Bates, and Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige.

The result, Rohde promised to Entertainment Weekly, is "an extension of the world that you're familiar with" – right down to the Awesome Mix-worthy soundtrack, which includes the Jackson 5's "I Want You Back."

Click on the video above to take a peek. If you're into it, Guardians of the Galaxy – Mission: Breakout! opens May 27 at Disney California Adventure.