North Korea's latest military parade analyzed
What North Korea's military parade says about capabilities, ambitions


North Korea’s military parades are an impressive sight that can also give away important information about the regime’s capabilities and ambitions.

Its latest display of military hardware - to commemorate the 'Day of the Sun' on Saturday, April 15 - focused more on new missiles and less on tanks and artillery, suggesting it was trying to project the image of a country with advanced capabilities in warfare.

There has been a gradual decline in conventional weapons on display since 2012, Kim Jong Un's first parade as leader, and a move to showcase more sophisticated weapons such as ballistic missiles.

Scroll down for video

North Korea's leader Kim Jong-Un (pictured right) applauds during the military parade held on Saturday, April 15 to commemorate the 'Day of the Sun' in Pyongyang. The image was released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency

The parade took place in Kim Il Sung Square and showcased the militaristic nation's new hardware. According to Reuters, Jong Un is trying to project that North Korea has advanced capabilities in warfare

This graph shows the procession of new weapons displayed at military parades since October 2010

North Korea displayed two completely new kinds of intercontinental ballistic missile.

Canister launchers mounted on the back of trucks suggest Pyongyang is working towards a 'new concept' of ICBM, said Melissa Hanham, a senior research associate at the U.S.-based Middlebury Institute of International Studies.

'However, North Korea has a habit of showing off new concepts in parades before they ever test or launch them,' Hanham said. 'It is still early days for these missile designs.'

Intercontinental ballistic missiles are driven down a road during the military parade. Canister launchers are mounted on the back of trucks

The land-based variant of the Pukkuksong-1, called Pukkuksong-2, was also on display for the first time.

The missile was tested successfully last February. Its range is believed to be around 2,000km.

The tracked launcher it is mounted on could allow it to move off-road, making it difficult to monitor.

The 'Pukkuksong-2' (pictured) was revealed for the first time and is a land-based variant of the submarine-launched Pukkuksong-1. The land-based missile is believed to have a range of around 2,000km

The submarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBM) called Pukkuksong-1s were also on show for the first time at a military parade.

It was successfully tested last August and believed to use solid fuel, with a range of around 900km.

Having the ability to fire a missile from a submarine could help North Korea evade the new THAAD anti-missile system currently being deployed in South Korea.

A navy truck carries the 'Pukkuksong-1' which was on show for the first time at a military parade. Its range is thought to be around 900km

A variation of a Scud missile, perhaps a KN-17, was mounted on a tracked launcher that appears to have control surfaces on its re-entry vehicle, or nose section, according to Jeffrey Lewis of the Middlebury Institute of International Studies.

This could indicate that North Korea is working on a maneuvering system, potentially allowing the North to target nearby ships.

One missile has not been seen at a parade before. Analysts have said that it could be a stretched version of the Musudan intermediate-range ballistic missile, or a shorter type of North Korea’s KN-08 ICBM.

The scud missile is pictured on top of a tracked launcher. According to the Middlebury Institute of International Studies, the weapon displayed might indicate that North Korea is working on a maneuvering system

The missile pictured might be a stretched version of the Musudan intermediate-range ballistic missile or a shorter type of the KN-08 ICBM. It appeared for the first time in a North Korea military parade on April 15

The transporter used is a parade newcomer, but the canisters on top of the vehicle resemble the Russian KH-35 anti-ship cruise missile.

Its range of more than 100 km could pose a threat to opposing naval vessels.

'It makes it harder for those sea-based missile defense assets to get close to North Korea,' said Jeffrey Lewis of the Middlebury Institute of International Studies.

The transporters pictured also appeared for the first time on Saturday. Mounted on them are canisters that resemble the Russian KH-35 anti-ship cruise missile

After the heavy equipment and brigades of tightly-coordinated, goose-stepping soldiers pass by, thousands of North Korean civilians bring up the rear of the parade, carrying flags and walking alongside colorful floats.

Divided into work units, they had prepared for months for this day. As they move past Kim Jong Un's balcony, some are overcome with emotion and cry. Others look exhausted.