Wait, Rob Lowe Is The New KFC Colonel?
Wait, Rob Lowe Is The New KFC Colonel?
Hold up. Wait, what? Rob Lowe is the new KFC colonel? Guess so. The fast food company announced Friday that it has selected the actor to become the latest in a long list of colonels ― a group that has included comedians like Darrell Hammond and Norm Macdonald in the past. Introducing Mission Commander Colonel Sanders. He’s got the face of an angel and the chicken-sandwich salesmanship of a Colonel Sanders. pic.twitter.com/3WtpOE1xCF In his first commercial for the company, Lowe dons an astronaut suit and proclaims his intent to blast a new chicken filet sandwich called the Zinger into space for some reason. “The time has come to explore beyond our known horizons to push KFC’s spicy, crispy chicken sandwich to new heights,” he says. “Sure, there’ll be questions,” he continues. “Like why.” We don’t really have many questions, but Lowe did put out a statement on Friday that was rather serious considering the circumstances. “My grandfather was the head of the Ohio chapter of the National Restaurant Association in the 1960s and took me to meet Colonel Harland Sanders when I was a kid,” Lowe said. “It was a big deal.” He added, “I thought this would be a nice homage to both Colonel Sanders and to my grandfather.” Anyway, it’s a commercial for a chicken sandwich featuring a celebrity. You get it. ALSO ON HUFFPOST Fast Food Chains With Recognizable Smells       Share this slide:       MORE:

Hold up. Wait, what? Rob Lowe is the new KFC colonel?

Guess so. The fast food company announced Friday that it has selected the actor to become the latest in a long list of colonels ― a group that has included comedians like Darrell Hammond and Norm Macdonald in the past.

Introducing Mission Commander Colonel Sanders. He’s got the face of an angel and the chicken-sandwich salesmanship of a Colonel Sanders. pic.twitter.com/3WtpOE1xCF — KFC (@kfc) April 21, 2017

In his first commercial for the company, Lowe dons an astronaut suit and proclaims his intent to blast a new chicken filet sandwich called the Zinger into space for some reason.

“The time has come to explore beyond our known horizons to push KFC’s spicy, crispy chicken sandwich to new heights,” he says.

“Sure, there’ll be questions,” he continues. “Like why.”

We don’t really have many questions, but Lowe did put out a statement on Friday that was rather serious considering the circumstances.

“My grandfather was the head of the Ohio chapter of the National Restaurant Association in the 1960s and took me to meet Colonel Harland Sanders when I was a kid,” Lowe said. “It was a big deal.”

He added, “I thought this would be a nice homage to both Colonel Sanders and to my grandfather.”