Govt Tells Restaurants To Let The Customers Decide How Much Service Charge They Wish To Pay
Govt Tells Restaurants To Let The Customers Decide How Much Service Charge They Wish To Pay
Govt Tells Restaurants To Let The Customers Decide How Much Service Charge They Wish To Pay The Central government has once again made it clear that paying service charges at hotels and other eateries is completely up to the customers and it cannot be enforced. Issuing an advisory on this regard, Consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan said, According to the government directive, eateries should leave the "service charge" column blank and let customers decide how much they want to pay. This is a standard practice in many major cities across the globe. Terming mandatory service charges as an unfair trade practice , the minister said, Under the new guidelines, customers can take restaurants to court for imposing service charges. “If there is a mandatory levy of service charge, customers can file a complaint in the Consumer Court,” a senior Consumer Affairs Ministry official said. But the hospitality industry said they will not abide by the guidelines unless it is made into a law. "Guidelines are not laws," Riyaaz Amlani, president of the National Restaurant Association of India said. The government had in January made it clear that hotels and restaurants cannot impose service charges on customers and that it was optional. The hospitality industry had hit back saying only people who are willing to pay service charges are welcome at their hotels and restaurants.

The Central government has once again made it clear that paying service charges at hotels and other eateries is completely up to the customers and it cannot be enforced.

BCCL/ Representative Image

Issuing an advisory on this regard, Consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan said,

"Service charge has no legal sanctity. We have made it more clear for the benefit of consumers."

According to the government directive, eateries should leave the "service charge" column blank and let customers decide how much they want to pay.

BCCL/ Representative Image

This is a standard practice in many major cities across the globe.

Terming mandatory service charges as an unfair trade practice, the minister said,

"It's an unfair trade practice and can be challenged legally. We are circulating the guidelines to states, hotels and restaurants' associations and voluntary consumer organisations that can help consumers pursue any case in consumer forums."

Under the new guidelines, customers can take restaurants to court for imposing service charges.

“If there is a mandatory levy of service charge, customers can file a complaint in the Consumer Court,” a senior Consumer Affairs Ministry official said.

BCCL/ Representative Image

But the hospitality industry said they will not abide by the guidelines unless it is made into a law. "Guidelines are not laws," Riyaaz Amlani, president of the National Restaurant Association of India said.

The government had in January made it clear that hotels and restaurants cannot impose service charges on customers and that it was optional.

The hospitality industry had hit back saying only people who are willing to pay service charges are welcome at their hotels and restaurants.

Don't Miss 98.4 K SHARES 53.9 K SHARES 56.4 K SHARES 23.4 K SHARES