ISIS Paris terrorist was caught with knives two months ago
Paris ISIS terrorist was caught two months ago with knives and masks


The ISIS terrorist who killed a police officer in Paris was caught two months ago with hunting knives and Scream masks - but was let go because he claimed they were 'for a carnival', it was revealed tonight.

Karim Cheurfi, 39, drove his silver Audi on to the Champs Elysee, the most famous street in the French capital, and 'targeted' officers using a Kalashnikov on Thursday night.

He killed 37-year-old policeman Xavier Jugele as he sat in a patrol van at a red light and hit another police officer in the chest, but he survived because he was wearing a bulletproof vest.

Cheurfi then tried to run away with his rifle and wounded a third officer before being gunned down near a Marks & Spencer store on the world-famous avenue.

Pictured (left and right) is the suspected ISIS gunman, who has been identified locally as 39-year-old Karim Cheurfi

The alleged ISIS gunman, identified as 39-year-old Karim Cheurfi - who was jailed for 20 years for trying to kill officers in 2001 - parked his Audi and opened fire after police stopped at a red light on the world famous avenue. Pictured is his arrest warrant from last month, when he was detained for trying to obtain weapons 'to kill police'

Traffic officer Xavier Jugele (pictured), 37, died instantly with a shot to the head, while the other two were hurt before Cheurfi himself was gunned down by nearby armed police

ISIS immediately claimed responsibility for the incident and Cheurfi was known to the authorities because he had a long string of police-hating convictions.

He was jailed for 20 years after trying to kill officers in 2001 but prosecutors tonight denied Cheurfi was on a security watch list and added he showed no signs of radicalisation before the attack.

French officials revealed that Cheurfi was detained in Meaux, 24 miles east of Paris, on February 23 this year, after it emerged he was trying to buy weapons 'to kill police'. He was let go in March due to lack of evidence.

French security services are under immense pressure as they face troubling questions as to how they failed to prevent him from carrying out the attack.

Details of Cheurfi's terrifying career as a determined criminal was outlined by Paris prosecutor Francois Molins during a press conference in the capital city on Friday evening.

Mr Molins said: 'Karim Cheurfi was known to the police and the judiciary. In the course of 2017, he sought to obtain weapons and made statements suggesting that he wanted to kill policemen.'

Referring to a commuter town north east of Paris, Mr Molins said: 'The prosecutor's office in Meaux opened a preliminary investigation on 13 January 2017.

'He was taken into custody on 23 February 2017 and his home was searched. He had hunting knives, masks from the film Scream and a GoPro camera.

'But these elements were not sufficient to provide proof that he wanted to carry out a threat of assassination. For example, he said the masks were for a local carnival.'

Mr Molins added: 'At that stage, no link with the radical Islamist movement was apparent. Nothing justified further investigations by my office.'

Pictured is armed police crowded two other officers, believed to have been shot in the attack, on Champs Elysees on Thursday night

French police leave the home of ISIS gunman Karim Cheurfi in the suburb of Chelles, in Paris, following last night's attack

A woman places a flower near the spot on the Champs Elysees where the shooting occurred last night in the French capital

A body is removed from the scene after a traffic officer was killed by an ISIS gunman in cental Paris last night

French police officers and forensic teams searched a vehicle which was close to the scene on the Champs Elysees in Paris

A police lorry seized the Audi which the attacker was driving, before he got out and shot at traffic officers last night

A still image from video footage shows police forensic investigators inspect the car used by the attacker in Paris last nigh

Cheurfi, who was born in France, was a recluse who blamed police for ruining his life, a friend of the family revealed today.

He did not attend formal mosque prayer services and became fascinated by jihadist propaganda via the internet, a confident of his mother claimed. He also drank alcohol and smoked cannabis.

'Karim did not pray, he drank alcohol and watched jihadist propaganda,' neighbour Hakim, 50, told MailOnline.

'He was not a good Muslim, he was a lost soul. He had no friends, no girlfriend, he never went out. He stayed at home all day watching stuff on the internet.'

Another neighbour added: 'Karim didn't go to the mosque. He just stayed at home. You never saw him.'

Hakim continued: 'Karim blamed the police for ruining his life. He fired (a pistol) at police during a burglary and got sentenced to 15 years prison.

'He was only 20 at the time. He hated the police, he said they had ruined his life. He was 'anti-cop'. He would swear at officers in the street, call them bastards. He didn't care.'

In January, it is understood that he used Amazon to buy two knives, a GoPro video camera – which sick jihadists use to film their atrocities – and sinister masks from the 1996 US horror film Scream.

But Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said the items ‘were not sufficient to provide proof that he wanted to carry out a threat of assassination’. ‘For example, he said the masks were for a local carnival,’ he said.

‘At that stage, no link with the radical Islamist movement was apparent. Nothing justified further investigations by my office.’ He also showed no signs of radicalisation in jail, said Mr Molins.

In the latest developments after the attack:

French police have this morning arrested three family members of ISIS gunman Karim Cheurfi

Police are hunting a second suspect, who was brought to their attention by Belgian authorities

A man whose image appeared on social media as 'second suspect' handed himself to police in Antwerp claiming he was not linked to the plot. Detectives have said this man had nothing to do with the attack

Far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen called for all French terror suspects to be expelled

France's government has reviewed its already extensive election security measures and says it is 'fully mobilised' and nothing will stop Sunday's presidential vote

US President Donald Trump believes the attack will have a 'big effect' on the outcome of the election

British Prime Minister Theresa May has sent condolences to the French president following the latest attack but the pair have not spoken directly since last night

Iran's foreign secretary Bahram Ghasemi said France was feeling a blowback for its support of rebels in Syria

Hakim, whose family is close to Cheurfi's mother, said the gunman had only recently returned to the quiet residential street after spending years behind bars.

Cheurfi lived separately from his mother in a purpose-built apartment in the front of the property.

Hakim added: 'He lived in the studio in the garden. The mother lived in the big house.'

Cheurfi's Algerian-born mother had divorced his father and had married a Frenchman with who she had second son. She later divorced her second son.

Another neighbour said: 'His parents split up but they stayed living at the same property.

'The father Salat lived in the apartment in the front of the garden and the mother lived in the house at the back of the property.

'The mother married again, to a Frenchman, and they had a son together but the father stayed living at the property.

'So it was a bit complicated but that's life. Karim got on well with his half brother who is called Stephane.

'But he went to live in the apartment with his father when he got of prison.'

Another neighbor added: 'The mother is not here. She is in Algeria. She goes there every few months to visit relatives. She's not been well.'

Officers have been searching the home of Karim in east Paris and arrested three of his family members.

A French government spokesman said the ISIS gunman began firing against police using 'a weapon of war'.

The fatal incident unfolded as presidential candidates, including National Front party leader Marine Le Pen, debated on a TV show nearby before Sunday's election.

The gunman has been identified by police but they will not officially reveal his name until investigators determine whether he had accomplices, according to the Paris prosecutor.

KILLER DECLARED ALLEGIANCE TO ISIS: TERRORIST LEFT NOTE AT THE SCENE - BUT DID BLUNDERING JIHADISTS CLAIM THE WRONG MAN DID IT? The Paris police killer declared his allegiance to ISIS in a note he left just yards from where he brutally gunned down an officer using a Kalashnikov, French prosecutors announced on Friday night. Detectives are desperately trying to determine whether terrorist Karim Cheurfi, 39, had accomplices who helped him carry out the attack on the Champs Elysees last night. ISIS immediately claimed responsibility for the incident which left police officer Xavier Jugele, 37, suffering a fatal head wound, but in its haste it may have mixed up the attacker's identity, according to a radicalisation expert. Their initial claims of responsibility are usually released by their self-styled news agency Amaq on the social media application Telegram. But Thursday's claim, which came briefly after the attack, was unusual both in its alacrity and also in identifying the attacker by his epithet - Abu Yussef al-Belgiki, or the Father of Yussef the Belgian. In previous attacks in the West, claims on Amaq often came up to a day later. For example, IS claimed an October Hamburg stabbing almost two weeks later. Charlie Winter, a senior research fellow with the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Political Violence at King's College, London, said: ' The claim was much faster than it has ever been for this kind of attack. 'The sooner the claim comes after the attack, the more easy it is for the organisation to amplify it. 'It could be they thought one guy was carrying out the attack and it turned out to be another. It could just be they were plain wrong.' For other attacks, the Amaq bulletin - often a terse sentence saying the attacker belonged to IS - is often followed by a longer statement with details on the attack and assailant. This second statement, published on ISIS's 'Nasher' Telegram accounts, may be followed by a picture of the attacker or a video of him pledging allegiance to the group, again sometimes days later. But in the case of the latest Paris attack, no further statement was forthcoming. The identification of the attacker by Amaq, and naming him as a Belgian rather than the French assailant who was shot dead as he fled, also raised questions. Cheurfi may have identified himself as Belgian in communications with IS handlers, but that is unlikely. French IS members are usually identified as such, with the epithet al-Faransi, or 'the Frenchman'. Jade Parker, an expert on ISIS, said: 'The unusual willingness of IS to provide an alleged kunya (epithet) after the commission of yesterday's shooting in Paris suggests there may be more here than meets the eye. 'Whether IS had foresight of the event, mistook yesterday's attacker for someone else or simply made an imbecilic error remains to be seen.'

An armed police officer hoists his weapon as they storm the streets of Paris after the latest terror attack to hit the city

Armed police outside a shop in central Paris after an ISIS gunman killed a traffic officer and injured three other people

Armed police officers on the streets of Paris after a gunman killed a traffic cop and seriously injured two others last night

Armed police officers stood guard after they rushed to the scene in the centre of the capital following the incident which left frightened witnesses sprinting for their lives

A team of forensic detectives examine the Audi, which the gunman was driving. ID of Karim Cheurfi was found in the vehicle

OFFICER SHOT DEAD GUARDED BATACLAN AT ITS REOPENING By Sam Tonkin for MailOnline The policeman killed by an ISIS gunman on the Champs-Elysees was today named as Xavier Jugelé, a 37-year-old Paris officer who defiantly said 'no to terrorists' at the reopening of the Bataclan theatre last November. He was shot in the head when the terrorist - identified today as French national Karim Cheurfi, 39 - launched his attack on three police officers at around 9pm last night. Jugelé, who was a proud defender of gay rights, was named as the victim who died by French newspaper Le Parisien. It has since emerged that Jugelé (pictured left and right) was on duty at the reopening of the Bataclan theatre on November last year - a year on from the Paris attacks which left 130 dead It has since emerged that Jugelé was on duty at the reopening of the Bataclan theatre on November last year - a year on from the Paris attacks which left 130 dead. As British singer Sting marked the occasion with a performance at the concert hall, Jugelé defiantly told PEOPLE.com that he was there 'to say no to terrorists'. The policeman added: 'I'm happy to be here. Glad the Bataclan is reopening. It's symbolic. 'We're here tonight as witnesses. Here to defend our civic values. This concert's to celebrate life. To say no to terrorists. 'It doesn't feel strange, it feels important,' he added. 'Symbolic.'

Cheurfi was first arrested in 2001 after a road rage incident in Roissy-en-Brie, near Paris, involving an off duty security manager and his brother.

After a chase, Cheurfi shot at them, wounding them seriously in the chest. In custody, Cheurfi took advantage of a moment of inattention of a custody officer, and tried to kill him with his own revolver.

Four years later, in 2005, Cheurfi was sentenced by judges sitting at the Val-de-Marne Assize Court to 15 years in prison.

At times he was given periods of supervised release from his sentence, which was reduced by five years on appeal.

Despite this, Cheurfi was a notoriously disruptive prisoner who in November 2009 was given another 18 month sentence for attacking a cell mate.

He was also convicted of a number of offences including burglary while out on bail, and also broke his monitoring conditions by travelling to Algeria.

Cheurfi was finally released completely on October 14 2015, but had to make regular appearances before a judge in Meaux. The last summons was in April.

A French police officer has been shot dead on the Champs Elysees in Paris (pictured) - just as presidential candidates took part in a TV debate nearby

People held their hands up as they walked towards officers close to the scene where a policeman was fatally shot in Paris

Police closed off the popular avenue (pictured) after a policeman was killed during a shooting incident in the French capital

Pictured is the scene of a restaurant in Paris when the gunman opened fire on the streets outside. Diners are seen cowering on the ground in fear

An armed policeman speaks to diners in a nearby Parisien restuarant, who cowered to the floor in fear of the ISIS gunman

Despite not showing any obvious signs of radicalisation, Mr Molins said Cheurfi had dropped notes in his Audi 80 car expressing his alleged devotion to Islamic State.

His car was packed with more weapons, including a pump action shotgun and knives. A copy of the Koran was also found in the vehicle.

Pierre-Henry Brandet, spokesman for the French Interior Ministry, confirmed that both injured officers in hospital were now 'out of danger' and 'stable', while the female tourist hit by a ricocheting bullet was far less badly hurt.

ISIS named the attacker by his 'war name' of 'Abu Yousuf al-Belgiki', which translates to 'the Belgian' in Arabic - a name that was listed in documents obtained from the terror group last year.

France goes to the polls in the first round of a presidential election on Sunday, and rival candidates used the Cheurfi attack to accuse each other of being soft on terrorism.

Marine Le Pen, of the far-Right National Front, said 'We cannot afford to lose this war' and called for borders to be reinstated and 'foreigners' to be expelled.

The attack which took place on the Champs Elysees (pictured) comes just three days before the first round of balloting in France's tense presidential election

French police officers search the home (pictured) of Karim Cheurfi after he was named as the man believed to be responsible for the attack

Police officers secured the area after a gunman got of an Audi vehicle and targeted officers by firing an automatic gun towards them

A man and a woman put their hands in the air as armed officers stood just yards away from them following the incident in the city

Officers searched the home of the suspected gunman on Thursday evening after they travelled to his home in the east part of the capital

People were seen running away from the area after Thursday night's attack, which has been described as being 'terrorist related'

Police officers searched the home of the suspected gunman in east Paris following the attack in the capital on Thursday

The Audi which is believed to belong to the attacker was taken away from the scene on the back of a lorry as police rushed to the popular avenue

Forensic experts and police officers were seen examining evidence from a van on the Champs Elysees in central Paris

Such hardline views were echoed by the conservative Republicans candidate François Fillon who said: 'We are at war, there is no alternative, it's us or them.'

But Emmanuel Macron, the independent favourite to win the election, said such discourse made matters worse, adding: 'I think we must one and all have a spirit of responsibility at this fraught time and not give in to panic and not allow it to be exploited.'

Bernard Cazeneuve, the Socialist prime minister, meanwhile accused Ms Le Pen of 'shamelessly seeking to exploit fear and emotion for exclusively political ends'.

Like many others, Mr Cazeneuve pointed out that Cheurfi was a born and bred Frenchman who had lived in the Paris suburbs all his life.

Mr Cazeneuve said: 'Nothing, no element of the inquiry, no intelligence, allows us to make any link whatsoever between immigration and asylum and what happened last night in Paris.

'For all of the French this attack is a tragedy. Ms Le Pen is seeking to turn it into an opportunity - a mediocre electoral opportunity that flouts the truth.'

French presidential election candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon (pictured) took part in the TV show just days before the election

The fatal shooting took place as French presidential candidates, including National Front party leader Marine Le Pen (pictured), took part in a debate nearby

Police officers quickly secured the area - which is popular with tourists and Parisians - after the attack and the road was on lockdown by 9pm

Police officers took positions near the Champs Elysees avenue in Paris after the gunman - who was known to the security services - launched the attack

An armed soldier spoke to a man a told him to leave the area following the fatal shooting close to the Arc de Triomphe (pictured)

French soldiers secure the Champs Elysees Avenue after a police officer was killed when a gunman opened fire in Paris

French police officers searched the area after some of their colleagues were shot in the heart of Paris on Thursday evening

French President Francois Hollande (pictured) said the attack was 'terrorist related' and scheduled an emergency meeting following the shootings

LE PEN ACCUSED OF 'EXPLOITING' ATTACK FOR VOTES By Thomas Burrows for MailOnline French Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve has accused far-right candidate Marine Le Pen of 'exploiting' the Champs-Elysees terror attack to win votes ahead of Sunday's presidential election. In the wake of the shooting Le Pen called for foreign terror suspects to be expelled immediately and claimed France needed a 'presidency which acts and protects us.' Responding to that, Cazeneuve, a Socialist, said Le Pen's National Front (FN) 'after each attack, seeks to exploit it and use it for purely political means.' Experts believe the shooting last night could boost Le Pen's chances of getting elected just days before France goes to the polls. Le Pen today called for foreign terror suspects to be kicked out the country despite the fact the ISIS gunman was French Voters could flock to far-right candidate Marine Le Pen following the latest terror attack In last night's attack a police officer was killed and two more were injured after a gunman opened fire close to the Champs-Elysees. Le Pen today called for foreign terror suspects to be kicked out the country despite the fact the ISIS gunman was French. The 39-year-old had used the war name 'Abu Yousuf the Belgian'. Officials confirmed the homegrown fanatic was a French national despite his nickname. A manhunt is underway for the second suspect who travelled by train to France from Belgium. The Champs-Elysees terror attack could boost far-right candidate Marine Le Pen's chances of getting elected, experts believe The shooting took place just four days before the French election and experts believe it could bolster Le Pen's chances of being elected. Le Pen has made immigration and security the core part of her campaign. She has pledged to tighten French borders controls and build more jails, and claimed authorities were not doing enough to protect citizens from terror attacks. More than half of police officers in France had already said they were voting for Le Pen because of her strong anti-terror stance, according to an IFOP poll. Experts believe it could increase her chances of winning Sunday's election. Fredrik Erixon, director at the European Centre for International Political Economy, told CNBC: '[It could lead to] a greater performance of Marine Le Pen than otherwise would have been the case. 'It's difficult to see how this attack will not play into the hands of political forces that want this campaign to be focused only on issues around migration and terrorism.' Vishnu Varathan, senior economist at Mizuho Bank, added: 'The Paris gunman attack may well swing support in her favor; and this may not be picked up by the polls in a timely manner.'

An eyewitness, called Chelloug, said: 'It was a terrorist. He came out with a Kalashnikov and started shooting, but he could've shot us on the pavement and killed more people with a spray of shots.

'But he targeted the policemen and fortunately there were the policemen who killed him.'

At his mother’s house in Chelles, police seized a computer, telephones, a rifle butt, prayer mats and an application for a hunting permit.

Prosecutors said three people ‘close to’ Cheurfi remained in custody.

Another witness said: 'I saw someone shoot at the police officers. They returned fire, they killed him, he fell on the floor. And then the emergency services came.

'It took place by Zara and there was a CRS (Republican Security Companies) van parked up and the man shot the police officers. He took out a weapon and shot them.

'I think the police officer was killed on the spot and his colleagues fired back and killed the individual.'

A witness, identified only as Ines, told BFM that she heard a shooting, saw a man's body on the ground and the area was quickly evacuated by police.

It comes just two days after police arrested two men in southern Marseille with weapons and explosives who were suspected of preparing an attack to disrupt the first-round of the presidential election on Sunday.

France is in a state of emergency and at its highest possible level of alert since a string of terror attacks that began in 2015, which have killed over 230 people.

Thousands of troops and armed police have been deployed to guard tourist hotspots such as the Champs Elysees or other potential targets like government buildings and religious sites.

Armed police officers were quick on the scene and closed the world famous avenue following the incident which shocked the city

The world famous was shut at around 9pm and it is believed police are still searching for a second suspect in relation to the attack

Police officers blocked the access of a street near the Champs Elysees in Paris after the fatal shooting on Thursday, April 20

Officers were wearing vests and helmets as they patrolled the area close to where the fatal shooting took. A 39-year-old man is believed to be responsible for the shooting

The world famous street was put on lockdown by 9pm and officers guarded the area in central Paris (pictured, the Eiffel Tower in the background)

A policeman attended the scene and was armed with a gun following the incident. Police have reportedly issued a warrant for a second attacker

Up until now, polls showed voters more concerned about unemployment and their spending power than terrorism or security, though analysts warned this would change in the event of further bloodshed.

For weeks, centrist former banker Le Pen has been out in front but opinion polls now show there is a chance that any of the four leading candidates could reach the second-round runoff on May 7.

Scandal-plagued conservative Fillon and far-left firebrand Jean-Luc Melenchon have closed the gap substantially in the last two weeks.

The UK Foreign Office said: 'The British Embassy is in contact with local authorities and urgently seeking further information following reports of a shooting incident on the Champs-Elysees in Paris.

'You should remain vigilant and follow the advice of the local security authorities and/or your tour operator.

'If you're in the area and it is safe to do so, contact your friends and family to tell them you are safe.'

The shooting came just hours after one of the busiest roads in Paris was closed off by police as officers dealt with a 'suspicious package'.

Reports suggested that items were discovered by officers as Rue de Rivoli remained shut. Stunned witnesses described seeing a large police presence on the two-mile-long road.

Rue de Rivoli is a busy commercial street just north of the River Seine which is home to some of the most fashionable shops in the world.

A COUNTRY UNDER SIEGE: TIMELINE OF FRANCE TERROR By Rory Tingle for MailOnline March, 18, 2017 - Convicted criminal with links to radical Islam shouted 'I am here to die for Allah, there will be deaths' seconds before he was shot dead during an attack at Orly airport. The 39-year-old, named locally as career criminal Ziyed Ben Belgacem, was killed after wrestling a soldier's gun from her and fleeing into a McDonald's. He sent a text message to his brother and father stating 'I shot the police', shortly before he was killed. February 3, 2017 - A man is shot five times outside the Louvre museum in the heart of Paris after attempting to storm the historic art gallery. July 14, 2016 - Amid Bastille Day celebrations in the Riviera city of Nice, a large truck is driven into a festive crowd. Some 86 people from a wide variety of countries are killed. The driver is shot dead. Islamic State extremists claim responsibility for the attack. The state of emergency in France is extended and extra protection, including robust barriers to prevent similar attacks, is put in place at major sites in France. June 13, 2016 - Two French police officers are murdered in their home in front of their 3-year-old son. Islamic State claims responsibility for the slaying, which was carried out by a jihadist with a prior terrorist conviction. He is killed by police on the scene. Nov. 13, 2015 - Islamic State militants kill 130 people in France's worst atrocity since World War II. A series of suicide bomb and shooting attacks are launched on crowded sites in central Paris, as well as the northern suburb of Saint-Denis. Most of those killed are in a crowded theater where hostages are taken. Islamic State extremists claim responsibility and say it was in retaliation for French participation in airstrikes on the militant group's positions in Syria and Iraq. It leads to the declaration of a state of emergency in France. Police powers are expanded. Jan. 7, 2015 - Two brothers kill 11 people inside the Paris building where the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo is headquartered in what Islamic State extremists claim is retaliation for the publication of cartoons about the Prophet Muhammad. More are killed subsequently in attacks on a kosher market in eastern Paris and on police. There are 17 victims in all, including two police officers. The attackers are killed.

Masked police officers were photographed standing on top of a vehicle on the Champs Elysees following an incident which left one officer dead

French police officers reacted after the shooting which left one officer dead and two more seriously injured in Paris

French soldiers were armed with guns (pictured) and stood guard at the Arc de Triomphe near the Champs Elysees in Paris

Heavily armed officers had flooded the area following the gunshots which were heard in a busy part of the French capital

Reports have suggested that two police officers have been killed on the Champs Elysees in central Paris (pictured) this evening

It was originally believed the other officer was seriously wounded while the attacker was killed on the world famous avenue (pictured)