Ilie Nastase in f-word tirade at British stars during Fed Cup clash
Ilie Nastase in f-word tirade at British stars during Fed Cup clash
lie Nastase faces a lengthy ban from tennis after he was ejected from the Great Britain v Romania Fed Cup tie for abusive language. He then left the Tennis Club IDU with parting shots at everyone from the match referee to the British team and finally visiting journalists. Nastase’s behaviour completely overshadowed the matchplay on a day that should have been about top 10 players Johanna Konta and Simona Halep. Instead, local TV stations found themselves repeating clips of his disgraceful departure from the venue. ad he not been restrained by security, he may well have assaulted me. The same goes for Eleanor Crooks, the reporter for the Press Association, at whom he aimed some personal insults before he was finally hustled into a waiting car. Crooks filmed his final outburst, and her videotape will support the need for the International Tennis Federation to respond in the strongest of terms. My second run-in with Ilie Nastase. He then called me ugly off camera, just for good measure pic.twitter.com/pt2begOpTx fter a largely uneventful first match, in which Halep beat Heather Watson comfortably, the trouble began roughly halfway through the second. It seemed that Jaume Kampistol, the chair umpire, triggered Nastase’s ire by asking for the crowd to be respectful to the players . Nastase is understood to have then challenged Kampistol with the words “This isn’t the opera, what’s your ---ing problem?” He was warned for his conduct, but as so often during his playing days, the argument only escalated and he was asked to leave the court by referee Andreas Egli, whom he called a “----ing asshole” on his way off. He also called the two British women on the court, Anne Keothavong and Johanna Konta, “----ing bitches”. fter a short delay, the players tried to resume, with the Romanian player Monica Niculescu occupying the place at courtside where Nastase should have been. At that point, a discombobulated Konta dropped her serve and then began to cry. Again, play was halted, and Egli agreed that the players should be allowed a break. t this stage, the ITF should probably have awarded the match to Konta. “In circumstances that are flagrant and particularly injurious,” the rulebook says, “the referee shall have authority to declare a default for a single violation." ortunately, the ITF’s failure of nerve made no difference in the end. As soon as the players returned, Konta took sole command of the match, reeling off the last five games to claim a 6-2, 6-3 victory. The players will resume on Sunday with the tie poised at one rubber apiece. As Nastase left the building, I asked him why he had been ejected from the court. He replied “Because of what you wrote yesterday, you stupid, stupid…”  reported this morning that Nastase had made an off-key quip about the colour of Serena Williams’s baby during Friday’s draw ceremony, before asking Keothavong for her room number. We await word from both teams, and from the ITF.

Fortunately, the ITF’s failure of nerve made no difference in the end. As soon as the players returned, Konta took sole command of the match, reeling off the last five games to claim a 6-2, 6-3 victory. The players will resume on Sunday with the tie poised at one rubber apiece.

As Nastase left the building, I asked him why he had been ejected from the court. He replied “Because of what you wrote yesterday, you stupid, stupid…”

The Daily Telegraph reported this morning that Nastase had made an off-key quip about the colour of Serena Williams’s baby during Friday’s draw ceremony, before asking Keothavong for her room number.

We await word from both teams, and from the ITF.