I Tried 5 Different Subscription Boxes For My Period So That You Don't Have To
I Tried Five Different Period Subscription Boxes To See If They Were Worth It
1. Overall usefulness of the box. 2. The most bang for the buck! 3. And did it actually make my period better somehow?                                                                    Le Parcel is the cheapest of the boxes I ordered at just $12, and even though I expected less from it due to the price and description, I was still a little shocked at how bare it was. It was literally just tampons and marshmallows. Don't get me wrong, I use tampons currently, so that was handy and I didn't have to make a special trip this month. And who doesn't want a chocolate marshmallow when you're deep in the throes of PMS? If I ever just want tampons and a treat, I'll definitely order again. 1. : 9/10 — I used the tampons and ate the marshmallows. 2. : 5/10 — At $12, it's more expensive than an actual box of tampons and marshmallows, but at least they came right to my door and I didn't even have to put pants on to get them. 3. : 3/10 — The tampons helped soak up my blood, but that's about it.                                   This box was so cute that it *almost* made me forget that my period was about to ruin my life. It had a variety of snacks — the box came with popcorn, a granola bar, AND special PMS Bites that are made with different herbs that are supposed to combat PMS (and was on !!). The box also included a bath bomb, lipstick, lip balm, and a Beautyblender. I might start getting this box every month. 1. : 7/10 — I used most of the stuff in the box within a week of receiving. 2. : 9/10 — At $15, it came with a lot of stuff that made it feel worth it. 3. : 7/10 — I loved the inclusion of the PMS Bites, and while it didn't make my period easy, it certainly didn't make it any worse.                                   I really, really liked this box right off the bat because it had the option to include portable heating pads that you can activate with just hot water, which is so key for someone with endometriosis. In fact, you can add on a shit ton of stuff, but it will cost you. I was impressed enough to order it again. 1. : 8/10 — The portable heating pads were brilliant, and as much as I wish I didn't need painkillers on my period, I do. 2. : 6/10 — The basic box at $15 had some stuff that I felt was worth it — and to me heating pads are priceless — so paying extra for them felt worth it to me. But it's not something I would want to do 12 times a year. 3. : 10/10 — I actually took the portable heating pads with me on vacation to Italy, which eased some of the anxiety I had before leaving about what my pain levels might be like.                                   This box was so fun! It arrived in February and was Mardi Gras–themed. It had alllll kinds of stuff inside. The box included painkillers, Mardi Gras beads, hair ties, loads of chocolate, herbal tea, bath salts, potato chips, tampons, and pads. I ate the chocolate immediately. I would probably try this box again — but because of the price, I wouldn't want it every month. 1. : 6/10 — Some of the stuff (like the chocolate) I used right away — some of the other stuff is still sitting on my kitchen counter waiting to find a way into my everyday life. 2. : 3/10 — At over $20, it didn't feel worth it to me compared to the cheaper boxes I had seen. 3. : 2/10 — It had the standard tampons and pads with some painkillers, but didn't add much else to improve my period.                                   OK, first things first, this box is a little pricey. But I was pleasantly surprised by what came in it...and the options to add even more before checking out on the website. I got a new pair of underwear, fancy Kleenex, a new makeup bag, tampons, pads, fruit chews, lip balm, hair ties, TWO menstrual cups, and Cottonelle fresh wipes. This isn't something I would want every month — but to treat myself every once in a while? Sign me uppppp. 1. : 8/10 — I loved the inclusion of everyday things — like the makeup bag and menstrual cups — because it felt like something I would have purchased anyway. 2. : 6/10 — I loved this box, but I wish it wasn't more than $30, even with all the great stuff it included. 3. : 8/10 — Red underwear is something I didn't know I needed until I started my period in them and realized it didn't matter! It didn't help my pain — but it made me *kind of* look forward to that time of the month knowing that this box was coming. And I guess that's what matters.                                    A reader pointed out that I had add-ons for The Period Store box that cost extra, a complete oversight by me. The post has been updated to reflect the price I paid!

Macey J Foronda

Le Parcel is the cheapest of the boxes I ordered at just $12, and even though I expected less from it due to the price and description, I was still a little shocked at how bare it was. It was literally just tampons and marshmallows. Don't get me wrong, I use tampons currently, so that was handy and I didn't have to make a special trip this month. And who doesn't want a chocolate marshmallow when you're deep in the throes of PMS? This box is simple and straight to the point — but sometimes that's all you need. If I ever just want tampons and a treat, I'll definitely order again.

1. Overall usefulness of the box: 9/10 — I used the tampons and ate the marshmallows.

2. Bang for the buck: 5/10 — At $12, it's more expensive than an actual box of tampons and marshmallows, but at least they came right to my door and I didn't even have to put pants on to get them.

3. Did it actually make my period better somehow?: 3/10 — The tampons helped soak up my blood, but that's about it.