Gujarat Boy Who Went Missing During 2001 Earthquake, Returns 16 Years Later As Monk
Gujarat Boy Who Went Missing During 2001 Earthquake, Returns 16 Years Later As Monk
Gujarat Boy Who Went Missing During 2001 Earthquake, Returns 16 Years Later As Monk When Manmohan Desai directed Amar Akbar Anthony or Rakesh Roshan directed Karan Arjun, as filmmakers, they must have thought of it as just a story being told on the celluloid. It must have never crossed their minds that miracles, exactly like the ones shown in their films would happen in real life – a mishap, a calamity, separation, sadness and final reunion. In what looks like a happy ending for a small family that lives in Bhuj, the son they assumed dead about 17 years ago has come back to them. It happened when the most catastrophic earthquake struck Gujarat, that affected the entire state and Bhuj the most. Lakhs of families coped with deaths of their loved ones and grieved for years for their loss. Same happened with Bhanjibhai Solanki and his family where almost everybody living in their society were found dead, including a mother and son of a family that lived in their neighbourhood. Amidst the chaos and destruction, one of Solanki’s sons went missing. He kept trying to find his son, Arun and hoped that he only went missing and had not passed away in the earthquake. After a while, everyone around him gave up and Solanki was forced to accept that his son too, was a victim of the havoc that nature wreaked upon the land. The disaster had separated and whisked away the young boy from his parents. After 17 years, however, a bunch of ‘ ’ had come to a nearby village in Nakhatrana taluka from Haryana. Word slowly spread that one of the men in the group of monks was his son. Solanki went to meet the group of monks to see his son, only to see that not only was Arun alive but had become Swami Arunananda. Solanki’s son is now 32-year-old, and had a teary reunion with his family after 17 long years, and has reportedly decided to support the renunciation of Arun and even go through the required rituals to do the same.

When Manmohan Desai directed Amar Akbar Anthony or Rakesh Roshan directed Karan Arjun, as filmmakers, they must have thought of it as just a story being told on the celluloid. It must have never crossed their minds that miracles, exactly like the ones shown in their films would happen in real life – a mishap, a calamity, separation, sadness and final reunion.

Source

In what looks like a happy ending for a small family that lives in Bhuj, the son they assumed dead about 17 years ago has come back to them. It happened when the most catastrophic earthquake struck Gujarat, that affected the entire state and Bhuj the most.

Lakhs of families coped with deaths of their loved ones and grieved for years for their loss. Same happened with Bhanjibhai Solanki and his family where almost everybody living in their society were found dead, including a mother and son of a family that lived in their neighbourhood.

Gujarat earthquake detroyed lives. Credit: Reuters

Amidst the chaos and destruction, one of Solanki’s sons went missing. He kept trying to find his son, Arun and hoped that he only went missing and had not passed away in the earthquake. After a while, everyone around him gave up and Solanki was forced to accept that his son too, was a victim of the havoc that nature wreaked upon the land. The disaster had separated and whisked away the young boy from his parents.

Reuters

After 17 years, however, a bunch of ‘sadhus’ had come to a nearby village in Nakhatrana taluka from Haryana. Word slowly spread that one of the men in the group of monks was his son. Solanki went to meet the group of monks to see his son, only to see that not only was Arun alive but had become Swami Arunananda. Solanki’s son is now 32-year-old, and had a teary reunion with his family after 17 long years, and has reportedly decided to support the renunciation of Arun and even go through the required rituals to do the same.

Don't Miss 1 K SHARES 1.8 K SHARES 98.7 K SHARES 58.1 K SHARES 56.6 K SHARES