Classic Shrimp Scampi Recipe

easy Shrimp Toast By Mark Bittman 10 minutes Pickled Shrimp By Tamar Adler Garlic Soup With Shrimp By Mark Bittman Shrimp With Peppers By Pierre Franey 35 minutes Scampi With Cream By Robert Farrar Capon 10 minutes Classic Shrimp With Lobster Sauce By Florence Fabricant Trending Marcella Hazan’s Tomato Sauce By The New York Times 1 hour Trending Spaghetti With Clams By Nigella Lawson 15 minutes Trending Takeout-Style Sesame Noodles By Sam Sifton 10 minutes Trending Sautéed Chicken With Meyer Lemon By Melissa Clark About 30 minutes Trending Rishia Zimmern’s Chicken With Shallots By Sam Sifton 1 hour 30 minutes Trending Pork Tenderloin Stuffed With Herbs and Capers By Melissa Clark 45 minutes Craig Lee for The New York Times Scampi are tiny, lobster-like crustaceans with pale pink shells (also called langoustines). Italian cooks in the United States swapped shrimp for scampi, but kept both names. Thus the dish was born, along with inevitable variations. This classic recipe makes a simple garlic, white wine and butter sauce that goes well with a pile of pasta or with a hunk of crusty bread. However you make the dish, once the shrimp are added to the pan, the trick is to cook them just long enough that they turn pink all over, but not until their bodies curl into rounds with the texture of tires.   A Good Appetite; Shrimp Scampi, A Classic Open To Interpretation .  Butter , Garlic , Shrimp  Ingredients                                    Nutritional analysis per serving (4 servings)    Preparation In a large skillet, melt butter with olive oil. Add garlic and sauté until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add wine or broth, salt, red pepper flakes and plenty of black pepper and bring to a simmer. Let wine reduce by half, about 2 minutes. Add shrimp and sauté until they just turn pink, 2 to 4 minutes depending upon their size. Stir in the parsley and lemon juice and serve over pasta or accompanied by crusty bread. Roasted Carrot Salad With Arugula and Pomegranate By Melissa Clark 45 minutes Pasta With Turkish-Style Lamb, Eggplant and Yogurt Sauce By Melissa Clark 45 minutes Carrot Ring By Melissa Clark 1 1/4 hours Ande ki Kari (Eggs in Spicy Tomato Sauce) By Melissa Clark 1 1/4 hours Roasted Brussels Sprouts With Garlic By Mark Bittman 45 minutes Asparagus With Miso Butter By Mark Bittman 20 minutes Bread-and-Butter Pickles By Melissa Clark Pasta With Green Puttanesca By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Cooking Guide How to Make Pasta By Samin Nosrat Cooking Guide How to Cook Asparagus By David Tanis Cooking Guide How to Frost a Cake By Melissa Clark Cooking Guide How to Roast a Turkey By Melissa Clark

Scampi are tiny, lobster-like crustaceans with pale pink shells (also called langoustines). Italian cooks in the United States swapped shrimp for scampi, but kept both names. Thus the dish was born, along with inevitable variations.

This classic recipe makes a simple garlic, white wine and butter sauce that goes well with a pile of pasta or with a hunk of crusty bread. However you make the dish, once the shrimp are added to the pan, the trick is to cook them just long enough that they turn pink all over, but not until their bodies curl into rounds with the texture of tires.

Featured in: A Good Appetite; Shrimp Scampi, A Classic Open To Interpretation.