Zayn Malik & PARTYNEXTDOOR Throw NSFW Party in 'Still Got Time' Video: Watch
Zayn Malik & PARTYNEXTDOOR Throw NSFW Party in 'Still Got Time' Video: Watch
Zayn Malik & PARTYNEXTDOOR Throw NSFW Party in 'Still Got Time' Video: Watch  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   YOUTUBE   PRINT   COMMENTS  Why weren't we invited? From the looks of it, Zayn Malik threw a hell of a party for theÂ " Still Got Time " video. The NSFWÂ clip for his tropoical houseÂ collabo with PARTYNEXTDOOR Â is basically what every fan thinks their favorite pop star is up to when they have a few friends over to chill: drinking, smoking, topless dancing, lots of passed out friends, lingerie-clad pole dancing, making out, more smoking (it dropped on 4/20, after all), same-sex make-outs, indoor skating, home tats and hair cuts, teepee hangs, levitation and lots of French inhaling.Â For real, someone floats on air, because it's that kind of party.Â Plus, aÂ morning after hangover smoke with a monkey and a crocodile, of course.  The clip was shot at Malik's London home in early April and in a statement director CalmaticÂ said it was pretty spot-on in terms of chronicling the late-night vibe at ZMal'sÂ parties. "We met at his crib and he said he wanted to throw the wildest house party imaginable. So we invited everyone we knew and let the cameras roll. The rest is history." The song is the first single from Malik's second solo album, due out this summer. Five new remixes of the track are available here . But seriously, why weren't we invited? ( : contains brief nudity and copious pot smoking.) Check it out: Â

Zayn Malik & PARTYNEXTDOOR Throw NSFW Party in 'Still Got Time' Video: Watch

Why weren't we invited? From the looks of it, Zayn Malik threw a hell of a party for theÂ "Still Got Time" video. The NSFWÂ clip for his tropoical houseÂ collabo with PARTYNEXTDOORÂ is basically what every fan thinks their favorite pop star is up to when they have a few friends over to chill: drinking, smoking, topless dancing, lots of passed out friends, lingerie-clad pole dancing, making out, more smoking (it dropped on 4/20, after all), same-sex make-outs, indoor skating, home tats and hair cuts, teepee hangs, levitation and lots of French inhaling.Â

For real, someone floats on air, because it's that kind of party.Â Plus, aÂ morning after hangover smoke with a monkey and a crocodile, of course.

The clip was shot at Malik's London home in early April and in a statement director CalmaticÂ said it was pretty spot-on in terms of chronicling the late-night vibe at ZMal'sÂ parties. "We met at his crib and he said he wanted to throw the wildest house party imaginable. So we invited everyone we knew and let the cameras roll. The rest is history." The song is the first single from Malik's second solo album, due out this summer. Five new remixes of the track are available here.

But seriously, why weren't we invited? (Warning: contains brief nudity and copious pot smoking.)

Check it out:

Â