Chris Pratt 'Officially' Weighs In On That ‘Jurassic World’ Theory
Chris Pratt 'Officially' Weighs In On That ‘Jurassic World’ Theory
Following the release of “ Jurassic World ,” a popular theory started going around that’d make anyone say, “Clever girl, internet.” Somewhat ironically, it’s now a superhero who’s bringing us back to reality. The theory claims that the kid who Dr. Alan Grant scares the hell out of in “Jurassic Park” grew up and turned into Chris Pratt ’s “Jurassic World” character, Owen Grady. As proof, the characters’ ages would line up nicely with the release dates of “Jurassic Park” (1993) and “Jurassic World” (2015), and, as Redditor farceur318 explained, “Grant tells [the kid] to ‘have a little respect’ for raptors, and in the trailers for ‘Jurassic World,’ Pratt’s character describes his relationships with the park’s raptors as ‘a relationship based on respect.’” Yeah, we know how you feel. The theory became so popular that even director Colin Trevorrow wouldn’t dispel it, saying, “Let’s not kill the fun.” Well now, it’s killed. It’s killed dead. “I have heard about that,” Pratt told The Huffington Post in an interview. “I don’t see it as being true.” Pratt, who’s starring as Star-Lord in the upcoming “ Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 ,” said, “It’s sweet though. And I love that kid, and I love the idea of that possibility, but I do officially say, as the bastion of Owen’s backstory, but not the creator of the character, that’s not true.” Pratt then laughed and added, “It’d be cooler if it was.” The actor’s got enough cool stuff going on in his life right now. His “Guardians of the Galaxy” follow-up is getting a lot of positive early reviews , and it has Pratt over the moon (figuratively, not literally like Star-Lord). “We stuck the landing,” he said. “I have a feeling, through the course of my career, there are going to be very few moments like this in my life. And it feels really fucking good.” It probably feels a lot better than when Dr. Grant scared you with that raptor claw, right? Er ... never mind. Like dinosaurs, this theory is officially extinct. But who cares? Pratt is so excited about “Guardians of the Galaxy” that you can’t help but be excited, too. ALSO ON HUFFPOST 12 Highest-Rated Movies on Netflix       Share this slide:       MORE:

Following the release of “Jurassic World,” a popular theory started going around that’d make anyone say, “Clever girl, internet.” Somewhat ironically, it’s now a superhero who’s bringing us back to reality.

The theory claims that the kid who Dr. Alan Grant scares the hell out of in “Jurassic Park” grew up and turned into Chris Pratt’s “Jurassic World” character, Owen Grady.

Universal Pictures

As proof, the characters’ ages would line up nicely with the release dates of “Jurassic Park” (1993) and “Jurassic World” (2015), and, as Redditor farceur318 explained, “Grant tells [the kid] to ‘have a little respect’ for raptors, and in the trailers for ‘Jurassic World,’ Pratt’s character describes his relationships with the park’s raptors as ‘a relationship based on respect.’”

Yeah, we know how you feel.

The theory became so popular that even director Colin Trevorrow wouldn’t dispel it, saying, “Let’s not kill the fun.”

Well now, it’s killed. It’s killed dead.

“I have heard about that,” Pratt told The Huffington Post in an interview. “I don’t see it as being true.”

Pratt, who’s starring as Star-Lord in the upcoming “Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2,” said, “It’s sweet though. And I love that kid, and I love the idea of that possibility, but I do officially say, as the bastion of Owen’s backstory, but not the creator of the character, that’s not true.” Pratt then laughed and added, “It’d be cooler if it was.”

The actor’s got enough cool stuff going on in his life right now. His “Guardians of the Galaxy” follow-up is getting a lot of positive early reviews, and it has Pratt over the moon (figuratively, not literally like Star-Lord).

“We stuck the landing,” he said. “I have a feeling, through the course of my career, there are going to be very few moments like this in my life. And it feels really fucking good.”

It probably feels a lot better than when Dr. Grant scared you with that raptor claw, right? Er ... never mind. Like dinosaurs, this theory is officially extinct.

But who cares? Pratt is so excited about “Guardians of the Galaxy” that you can’t help but be excited, too.