I Asked Teens For Advice For Earth Day And What They Said Gives Us Hope
I Asked Teens For Advice For Earth Day And What They Said Gives Us Hope
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Marshall Shepherd       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. When there is a leak in our homes, we have the option to go to a relative's home or stay in a hotel. If we get tired of a neighborhood or city, we can move. Unfortunately, we do not have a "plan B" or vacation planet to hop to for the weekend if it is damaged. As I am writing this, I noticed an ominous headline about carbon dioxide levels going past 410 parts per million this week and that is not a good thing for Earth's climate. Saturday, April 22nd is Earth Day. The first Earth Day was celebrated on that date in 1970 during a time of lead gas, bad air pollution, oil spills, and tainted water. As the Earth Day websites points out , Clean Air Act Clean Water Act Endangered Species Act Such important activities and the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by the Nixon Administration are part of the reason we are spoiled. Most of us wake up each morning not thinking about putting on a mask because the air quality is bad outside, inspecting our tap water, or wondering if the kids' school has lead in the walls. Sound, non-partisan environmental stewardship delivers a higher and healthier quality of life for all of us. It is not a threat, but it is easy to take it for granted. On this Earth Day, there is uncertainty about the future of our planet.  Jon Mooallem wrote a "must-read" yet depressing piece in the New York Times this week entitled, "Our Climate Future Is Actually Our Climate Present."  It is not just climate change that threatens our health, security, economy, water supply, ecosystems and food productivity. Important environmental regulations are being rolled back . Trash and other debris are strangling our oceans . Landscapes are being deforested . Activities related to wastewater disposal and energy exploration may be contributing to more earthquakes . As somber as these facts are, conversations with some adults about this can be equally depressing. Some adults, particularly beyond a certain age, are often so hampered by political perspectives, ideology, or level of environmental literacy that they do not recognize our obligation for stewardship of our home (and habitable) planet. NASA Website, https://www.nasa.gov/content/goddard/on-earth-day-show-nasa-how-there-s-noplacelikehome A 2015 NASA Earth Day Banner As a scientist who speaks to these issues from the White House to the Waffle House, I experience the range of viewpoints (often misinformed or willfully misguided), but the next generation gives me hope because they "get it." They rise above personal marinades that confine adults. I know and interact with experts on climate and the environment from every corner of the Earth, but I decided to get the perspectives of teenagers from family, friends, friends of friends, colleagues, and associates from across the United States. They come from families of a wide variety of racial, cultural, religious, and political perspectives. With the consent of their parents, I asked them what they recommend for the Earth or the environment in one sentence. Their answers were not solicited in categories, but I have organized them into key theme areas below: Sarah, 14, " Arissa, 13, "I did a project on tropical infectious diseases and I am worried that as climate warms these diseases will become more widespread as certain mosquitoes move north where we live, so we have to do something now." Sydney, 15, "W Lauren, 15, "Our Mother Earth is experiencing high carbon levels in the atmosphere, one solution would be alleviating gas automobiles and converting all cars to electric." Christina, 15, "C Olivia, 15, " Jordan, 17, " Jamorad, 16, "A Malcolm, 16, "For more people to actually care about harmful factors in the enviornment like pollution and not just mention it and do nothing to actually help better the environment." Ameel, 16, "Stop tearing down what was already there like trees, for example." Brian, 18,"We can preserve our ecosystems by better managing hunting/over hunting." Brooklyn, 14, " Alexis, 15, " Annabel, 15, "T Everett, 16, "Teach people to recycle." Pria, 13, "   Mason, 13, " Jovi, 16, Henson, almost 12, " Max, 13, " Taylor, 18, "A small, yet effective thing that everyone can do to better the environment is watching the amount of water we use when carrying out certain tasks like shaving or brushing our teeth." Chazz, 18, "Spread awareness and enlighten people on their harmful actions and how they affect people and their environment." Aaron, 14, "Do a better job educating people around the world about climate issues." Katie, 16, " Finn, 12.5, "Cooperation." I think young Finn's answer captures the essence of what is needed in all challenges that face humanity. If these responses did not lift your environmental spirit, I am not sure what will. As a Professor, I am constantly energized by the objectivity, candor, and spark of our youth. Teen Vogue offered a starter list for teens last Earth Day (this link) , and it still works today. It is clear from the answers that these teens understand that they will be the generation that inherits the planet that we give them (or what's left of it). If you do not believe me, check out this story about the teenagers that brought forth a lawsuit because of their concern about climate change . I was also struck by how the students offered solutions that focused on local to global issues and literacy.  This spectacular picture was taken from the Cassini spacecraft and shows Earth as a speck of light between Saturn's rings. It provides even greater perspective on how small and fragile our "home" really is. Happy Earth Day . Let's get to work. NASA JPL Earth and our moon seen as tiny specks of light through Saturn's rings. Source: NASA Dr. Marshall Shepherd, Dir., Atmospheric Sciences Program/GA Athletic Assoc. Distinguished Professor (Univ of Georgia), Host, Weather Channel's Sunday Talk Show, Weather (Wx) Geeks, 2013 AMS President Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

When there is a leak in our homes, we have the option to go to a relative's home or stay in a hotel. If we get tired of a neighborhood or city, we can move. Unfortunately, we do not have a "plan B" or vacation planet to hop to for the weekend if it is damaged. As I am writing this, I noticed an ominous headline about carbon dioxide levels going past 410 parts per million this week and that is not a good thing for Earth's climate. Saturday, April 22nd is Earth Day. The first Earth Day was celebrated on that date in 1970 during a time of lead gas, bad air pollution, oil spills, and tainted water. As the Earth Day websites points out,

Such important activities and the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by the Nixon Administration are part of the reason we are spoiled. Most of us wake up each morning not thinking about putting on a mask because the air quality is bad outside, inspecting our tap water, or wondering if the kids' school has lead in the walls. Sound, non-partisan environmental stewardship delivers a higher and healthier quality of life for all of us. It is not a threat, but it is easy to take it for granted. On this Earth Day, there is uncertainty about the future of our planet. Climate is not "going" to change, it is actually changing before our eyes and with consequences. Jon Mooallem wrote a "must-read" yet depressing piece in the New York Times this week entitled, "Our Climate Future Is Actually Our Climate Present."

It is not just climate change that threatens our health, security, economy, water supply, ecosystems and food productivity. Important environmental regulations are being rolled back. Trash and other debris are strangling our oceans. Landscapes are being deforested. Activities related to wastewater disposal and energy exploration may be contributing to more earthquakes. As somber as these facts are, conversations with some adults about this can be equally depressing. Some adults, particularly beyond a certain age, are often so hampered by political perspectives, ideology, or level of environmental literacy that they do not recognize our obligation for stewardship of our home (and only habitable) planet. This Earth Day indeed feels more vital and urgent than others.

NASA Website, https://www.nasa.gov/content/goddard/on-earth-day-show-nasa-how-there-s-noplacelikehome

As a scientist who speaks to these issues from the White House to the Waffle House, I experience the range of viewpoints (often misinformed or willfully misguided), but the next generation gives me hope because they "get it." They rise above personal marinades that confine adults. I know and interact with experts on climate and the environment from every corner of the Earth, but I decided to get the perspectives of teenagers from family, friends, friends of friends, colleagues, and associates from across the United States. They come from families of a wide variety of racial, cultural, religious, and political perspectives. With the consent of their parents, I asked them what they recommend for the Earth or the environment in one sentence. Their answers were not solicited in categories, but I have organized them into key theme areas below:

Climate and Greenhouse Gases

Sarah, 14, " One thing I recommend to improve the earth or environment is the regulation of greenhouse gases."

Arissa, 13, "I did a project on tropical infectious diseases and I am worried that as climate warms these diseases will become more widespread as certain mosquitoes move north where we live, so we have to do something now."

Sydney, 15, "W e need to stop using fossil fuels to power heavy machinery and power plants."

Derrick, 14, "We need to release less CFCs because they contribute to the hole in the ozone layer which is increasing the amount people diagnosed with skin cancer." ( Thankfully there is progress on this one Derrick ).

Lauren, 15, "Our Mother Earth is experiencing high carbon levels in the atmosphere, one solution would be alleviating gas automobiles and converting all cars to electric."

Pollution

Christina, 15, "C ars and all the pollution in our air. Starting simple could be using electric cars."

Olivia, 15, " America and other countries should cut down on their dependency on factory usage due to the pollution they cause."

Jordan, 17, " One thing we can do to improve the environment is to recycle to cut down pollution."

Jamorad, 16, "A World Wide Day of Cleaning other than Earth Day being once a year to help my local community control the air pollution coming from local industry and continue to support the students that strive to have something done with the local water treatment plant located behind my high school."

Malcolm, 16, "For more people to actually care about harmful factors in the enviornment like pollution and not just mention it and do nothing to actually help better the environment."

Sustainability

Ameel, 16, "Stop tearing down what was already there like trees, for example."

Brian, 18,"We can preserve our ecosystems by better managing hunting/over hunting."

Brooklyn, 14, " Recycle as much as possible."

Alexis, 15, " Use less pesticides and reduce carbon dioxide in the air."

Annabel, 15, "T he first thought to come to mind was pick up after ourselves."

Everett, 16, "Teach people to recycle."

Pria, 13, " Throw away trash instead of littering and recycle, recycle, recycle."

Kevin, 16, "We can improve the environment by decreasing deforestation."

Energy, Food, and Water Intersections

Mason, 13, " I know adults like cheap gas but I noticed when gas is cheaper, people drive more, which pollutes our environment more."

Jovi, 16, "Taking our food supply back to basics and not mass produce it with tons of chemicals and artificial things."

Henson, almost 12, " The use of alternative renewable energy sources like solar, hydro and wind."

Max, 13, " Use more environmentally friendly resources, like hydroelectric power."

Taylor, 18, "A small, yet effective thing that everyone can do to better the environment is watching the amount of water we use when carrying out certain tasks like shaving or brushing our teeth."

Climate Literacy and Awareness

Chazz, 18, "Spread awareness and enlighten people on their harmful actions and how they affect people and their environment."

Aaron, 14, "Do a better job educating people around the world about climate issues."

Katie, 16, " Everyone need to be aware of what they do and how it affects the planet, and people need to want to make a difference for future generations."

Finn, 12.5, "Cooperation."

I think young Finn's answer captures the essence of what is needed in all challenges that face humanity. If these responses did not lift your environmental spirit, I am not sure what will. As a Professor, I am constantly energized by the objectivity, candor, and spark of our youth. Teen Vogue offered a starter list for teens last Earth Day (this link), and it still works today.

It is clear from the answers that these teens understand that they will be the generation that inherits the planet that we give them (or what's left of it). If you do not believe me, check out this story about the teenagers that brought forth a lawsuit because of their concern about climate change. I was also struck by how the students offered solutions that focused on local to global issues and literacy. This spectacular picture was taken from the Cassini spacecraft and shows Earth as a speck of light between Saturn's rings. It provides even greater perspective on how small and fragile our "home" really is. Happy Earth Day. Let's get to work.

NASA JPL

Dr. Marshall Shepherd, Dir., Atmospheric Sciences Program/GA Athletic Assoc. Distinguished Professor (Univ of Georgia), Host, Weather Channel's Sunday Talk Show, Weather (Wx) Geeks, 2013 AMS President