Ann Coulter finds an unlikely ally in her free-speech spat with Berkeley: Bill Maher

An unlikely person has come to the defense of conservative pundit Ann Coulter in her ongoing push to give a speech at the University of California at Berkeley: liberal television host and comedian Bill Maher. Coulter was scheduled to give a speech at the university on April 27, but the university canceled it Wednesday, citing security concerns. In recent months, the campus has been the site of several political protests, some turning violent . Though the school reversed its decision and extended a new invitation for Coulter to speak on campus on May 2, she rejected the offer. Instead, she has vowed to speak in Berkeley on the original date and is accusing the university of trying to restrict her rights to free speech.   Maher addressed the controversy on his show, HBO’s “Real Time with Bill Maher ,” on Friday night — by first acknowledging how surprising his defense of Coulter might seem to his viewers. “I know, we don’t like Ann Coulter’s views,” he said, to audience laughter. “I like her as a person. I’ve never agreed with one thing she ever said.” Maher referred to his own similar situation with Berkeley, when some students petitioned to remove him as the university’s commencement speaker in 2014 . School officials ultimately stuck by Maher, allowing him to speak .   “They got their act together and I wound up doing it, and apparently that’s what’s going to happen to (Coulter), I think,” Maher said. “But Berkeley, you know, used to be the cradle of free speech, and now it’s just the cradle for f—ing babies.” Speaking to S.E. Cupp, a conservative political commentator and guest on his show, Maher compared the cancellation of Coulter’s speech to “the liberals’ version of book burning.” “And I feel like this goes on all over the country on campuses,” Maher told Cupp. “They invite someone to speak whose not what liberals want to hear and they want to shutter it. … And it’s got to stop.” Maher also blasted former Democratic presidential candidate Howard Dean, who erroneously tweeted on Thursday that “hate speech” was not protected by the First Amendment of the Constitution. Hate speech is not protected by the first amendment. https://t.co/DOct3xcLoY — Howard Dean (@GovHowardDean) April 21, 2017 “Yes, it is!” Maher said. “ are not protected by the First Amendment. … That’s what the First Amendment means. It doesn’t mean just shut up and agree with me.” Cupp agreed with Maher. As The Post’s William Wan reported , the group that invited Coulter to speak at Berkeley has threatened to sue the university if it does not let Coulter speak on a campus venue during the evening of April 27. Berkeley spokesman Dan Mogulof said that moving the date and time of Coulter’s speech was a matter of student security. “We are confident that we are on very solid legal grounds,” Mogulof said in response to the threatened lawsuit. “We are concerned about her disregard for the assessment and recommendations of law enforcement professionals whose primary focus is the safety and well-being of our students and other members of our campus community.” This is hardly the first time Berkeley has been in the spotlight over a conservative speaker’s plans to visit the campus. In February, conservative provocateur and then-Breitbart News editor Milo Yiannopoulos was scheduled to give a speech at Berkeley when violent protests broke out on campus, forcing the speech to be canceled and the campus to be placed on lockdown . The incident prompted President Trump to weigh in on Twitter, apparently threatening to withhold federal funding from the university. If U.C. Berkeley does not allow free speech and practices violence on innocent people with a different point of view – NO FEDERAL FUNDS? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2017 Yiannopoulos accused Berkeley of infringing on his First Amendment rights then. “The event has been canceled,” he wrote on his Facebook page in February. “I’ll let you know more when the facts become clear. One thing we do know for sure: the Left is absolutely terrified of free speech and will do literally anything to shut it down.” The university said in a statement then that “the threats and unlawful actions of a few have interfered with the exercise of First Amendment rights on a campus that is proud of its history and legacy as the home of the Free Speech Movement.” Pro-Trump rally in Berkeley turns violent as protesters clash with the president’s supporters Milo Yiannopoulos resigns from Breitbart, proving his free ride on free speech is over Anthony Bourdain bashes fellow ‘privileged Eastern liberals’ for making Trump win possible

Conservative pundit Ann Coulter says she will still go to the University of California at Berkeley despite the university canceling her speech over safety concerns. In February, riots occurred when conservative Milo Yiannopoulos was asked to speak by a group of campus Republicans. (Reuters)

An unlikely person has come to the defense of conservative pundit Ann Coulter in her ongoing push to give a speech at the University of California at Berkeley: liberal television host and comedian Bill Maher.

Coulter was scheduled to give a speech at the university on April 27, but the university canceled it Wednesday, citing security concerns. In recent months, the campus has been the site of several political protests, some turning violent.

Though the school reversed its decision and extended a new invitation for Coulter to speak on campus on May 2, she rejected the offer. Instead, she has vowed to speak in Berkeley on the original date and is accusing the university of trying to restrict her rights to free speech.

[Coulter rejects Berkeley’s new invite; GOP students threaten to sue college]

Maher addressed the controversy on his show, HBO’s “Real Time with Bill Maher,” on Friday night — by first acknowledging how surprising his defense of Coulter might seem to his viewers.

“I know, we don’t like Ann Coulter’s views,” he said, to audience laughter. “I like her as a person. I’ve never agreed with one thing she ever said.”

Maher referred to his own similar situation with Berkeley, when some students petitioned to remove him as the university’s commencement speaker in 2014. School officials ultimately stuck by Maher, allowing him to speak.

[The Berkeley rally aftermath: Mass arrests, a stabbing and weaponized Pepsi]

“They got their act together and I wound up doing it, and apparently that’s what’s going to happen to (Coulter), I think,” Maher said. “But Berkeley, you know, used to be the cradle of free speech, and now it’s just the cradle for f—ing babies.”

Speaking to S.E. Cupp, a conservative political commentator and guest on his show, Maher compared the cancellation of Coulter’s speech to “the liberals’ version of book burning.”

“And I feel like this goes on all over the country on campuses,” Maher told Cupp. “They invite someone to speak whose not exactly what liberals want to hear and they want to shutter it. … And it’s got to stop.”

Maher also blasted former Democratic presidential candidate Howard Dean, who erroneously tweeted on Thursday that “hate speech” was not protected by the First Amendment of the Constitution.

Hate speech is not protected by the first amendment. https://t.co/DOct3xcLoY — Howard Dean (@GovHowardDean) April 21, 2017

“Yes, it is!” Maher said. “Threats are not protected by the First Amendment. … That’s what the First Amendment means. It doesn’t mean just shut up and agree with me.”

Cupp agreed with Maher.

As The Post’s William Wan reported, the group that invited Coulter to speak at Berkeley has threatened to sue the university if it does not let Coulter speak on a campus venue during the evening of April 27.

Berkeley spokesman Dan Mogulof said that moving the date and time of Coulter’s speech was a matter of student security.

“We are confident that we are on very solid legal grounds,” Mogulof said in response to the threatened lawsuit. “We are concerned about her disregard for the assessment and recommendations of law enforcement professionals whose primary focus is the safety and well-being of our students and other members of our campus community.”

This is hardly the first time Berkeley has been in the spotlight over a conservative speaker’s plans to visit the campus. In February, conservative provocateur and then-Breitbart News editor Milo Yiannopoulos was scheduled to give a speech at Berkeley when violent protests broke out on campus, forcing the speech to be canceled and the campus to be placed on lockdown. The incident prompted President Trump to weigh in on Twitter, apparently threatening to withhold federal funding from the university.

If U.C. Berkeley does not allow free speech and practices violence on innocent people with a different point of view – NO FEDERAL FUNDS? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2017

Yiannopoulos accused Berkeley of infringing on his First Amendment rights then.

“The event has been canceled,” he wrote on his Facebook page in February. “I’ll let you know more when the facts become clear. One thing we do know for sure: the Left is absolutely terrified of free speech and will do literally anything to shut it down.”

The university said in a statement then that “the threats and unlawful actions of a few have interfered with the exercise of First Amendment rights on a campus that is proud of its history and legacy as the home of the Free Speech Movement.”

Here's a look at some of the protests in the Berkeley, Calif., area in recent months. (Gillian Brockell/The Washington Post)

Read more:

Pro-Trump rally in Berkeley turns violent as protesters clash with the president’s supporters

Milo Yiannopoulos resigns from Breitbart, proving his free ride on free speech is over

Anthony Bourdain bashes fellow ‘privileged Eastern liberals’ for making Trump win possible