Deviate: The Science of Seeing Differently by Beau Lotto review – why we need brain control

eau Lotto is a gung-ho neuroscientist. “[The] great minds of history,” he says, “had theories, but now neuroscience has an answer.” The latest research has, it seems, established that everything you experience “takes place in the brain” and that “you never, ever see reality!” (Lotto loves his italics and exclamation marks.) Your brain may be beautiful, but “what makes it beautiful is that it is delusional” and you should therefore get shot of your inhibitions and summon the courage to “deviate!” Perhaps we should back up a little. Early in the book, Lotto mentions a French scientist called Michel Chevreul who started working at the Gobelins textile factory in Paris in the 1820s. Chevreul had to deal with complaints about coloured yarns that seemed to fade after being woven into tapestries, and his patient chemical analyses did not get him anywhere. But then he shifted his attention from the science of dyestuffs to the psychology of perception, and he was on the way to a solution: colours, he discovered, change their appearance when looked at side by side. I needed respite from Lotto’s exclamation marks so I spent an afternoon in the British Library looking through a gorgeous old volume in which Chevreul expounded his “law of the simultaneous contrast of colours”. Chevreul began by showing how a black line has drastic effects on the appearance of adjacent colours, and how a red patch makes its surroundings look green. He then discussed the difference between colours in an object and colours in a painting, and offered suggestions about the design of picture frames and the use of colour in theatre; and he finished with wonderful planting plans for beds of multicoloured crocuses and dahlias. The book is itself an exuberant work of art, with tinted pages and fold-out arrays of coloured dots looking like prototypes of the spot paintings of Damien Hirst . I also went back to a book about perception that enjoyed a huge vogue in the 1970s. by the late Richard Gregory comprises a full-colour collection of optical illusions together with a commentary on the physics and neurology of vision, providing a triumphant demonstration that, as Gregory put it, seeing an object “involves many sources of information beyond those meeting the eye”. When I got back to Lotto I was quite shocked. He says Chevreul “tripped up” because he had no idea “how the brain works”, while Gregory belonged to a benighted age when the brain was regarded as “a ready-made entity”, incapable of adaptation. But these are more enlightened days: we now know that the brain is susceptible to change (did anyone ever doubt it?) and that it exhibits a “neurological tendency toward delusion”. At this point Lotto surprised me by declaring his allegiance to the 18th-century Christian philosopher George Berkeley, who famously equated “being” with “perceiving or being perceived”. Berkeley was, in Lotto’s opinion, “a theoretical neuroscientist before the field even existed”, blessed with “ahead-of-his-time insights” to the effect that “we don’t have direct access to the world”. He realised, according to Lotto, that we live inside our perceptions rather like a person shut inside a caravan with tiny windows offering only a few partial glimpses of the world outside. But that gets Berkeley spectacularly wrong: his big idea was that the notion of material objects distinct from perception is not only unnecessary but self-contradictory, and he drew the conclusion that perception, far from confining us to a private inner world, places us in the midst of God’s bountiful creation. If you want to steer clear of theology, you might say Berkeley recognised that perception takes us out of ourselves into a world of shared experience. Professor Lotto, however, thinks your perceptions terminate at the boundaries of your brain, and while he is sparing with neurological detail, he is liberal with moral advice. Once you know your brain is delusional, he says, you must start “actively living the knowing”. You will need to “choose your delusions”, thus taking back control of your brain. You will have to ask yourself the big question: “Why are things this way and not another way?” And then you must prepare to deviate! Asking questions and deviating have, according to Lotto, been the trigger for every single step of human progress, from the American and French revolutions to the fall of the Berlin Wall; and in the 21st century we need to question and deviate as never before. Let us question and deviate by all means. But once you start asking “Why?” you may well find yourself wondering why Lotto imagines that we need to take up neuroscience in order to do so: the American and French revolutionaries and the Berlin wall-demolishers seem to have managed quite well without it. You may also wonder why the question “Why?” is supposed to be allied to the politics of liberal progress: might it not lead to ignorant hate-filled exasperation instead? You might also want to ask why a 21st-century book about perception is printed in black and white and shades of grey without a dash of colour. As for deviation, my advice would be to deviate towards the works of Chevreul (you will find samples on the internet) and to Gregory’s , which has never gone out of print.  by Beau Lotto (W&N, £20). To order a copy for £15, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.  Science and nature   Philosophy   Neuroscience   reviews

Beau Lotto is a gung-ho neuroscientist. “[The] great minds of history,” he says, “had theories, but now neuroscience has an answer.” The latest research has, it seems, established that everything you experience “takes place in the brain” and that “you never, ever see reality!” (Lotto loves his italics and exclamation marks.) Your brain may be beautiful, but “what makes it beautiful is that it is delusional” and you should therefore get shot of your inhibitions and summon the courage to “deviate!”

Perhaps we should back up a little. Early in the book, Lotto mentions a French scientist called Michel Chevreul who started working at the Gobelins textile factory in Paris in the 1820s. Chevreul had to deal with complaints about coloured yarns that seemed to fade after being woven into tapestries, and his patient chemical analyses did not get him anywhere. But then he shifted his attention from the science of dyestuffs to the psychology of perception, and he was on the way to a solution: colours, he discovered, change their appearance when looked at side by side.

I needed respite from Lotto’s exclamation marks so I spent an afternoon in the British Library looking through a gorgeous old volume in which Chevreul expounded his “law of the simultaneous contrast of colours”. Chevreul began by showing how a black line has drastic effects on the appearance of adjacent colours, and how a red patch makes its surroundings look green. He then discussed the difference between colours in an object and colours in a painting, and offered suggestions about the design of picture frames and the use of colour in theatre; and he finished with wonderful planting plans for beds of multicoloured crocuses and dahlias. The book is itself an exuberant work of art, with tinted pages and fold-out arrays of coloured dots looking like prototypes of the spot paintings of Damien Hirst.

I also went back to a book about perception that enjoyed a huge vogue in the 1970s. Eye and Brain by the late Richard Gregory comprises a full-colour collection of optical illusions together with a commentary on the physics and neurology of vision, providing a triumphant demonstration that, as Gregory put it, seeing an object “involves many sources of information beyond those meeting the eye”.

When I got back to Lotto I was quite shocked. He says Chevreul “tripped up” because he had no idea “how the brain works”, while Gregory belonged to a benighted age when the brain was regarded as “a ready-made entity”, incapable of adaptation. But these are more enlightened days: we now know that the brain is susceptible to change (did anyone ever doubt it?) and that it exhibits a “neurological tendency toward delusion”. At this point Lotto surprised me by declaring his allegiance to the 18th-century Christian philosopher George Berkeley, who famously equated “being” with “perceiving or being perceived”. Berkeley was, in Lotto’s opinion, “a theoretical neuroscientist before the field even existed”, blessed with “ahead-of-his-time insights” to the effect that “we don’t have direct access to the world”. He realised, according to Lotto, that we live inside our perceptions rather like a person shut inside a caravan with tiny windows offering only a few partial glimpses of the world outside. But that gets Berkeley spectacularly wrong: his big idea was that the notion of material objects distinct from perception is not only unnecessary but self-contradictory, and he drew the conclusion that perception, far from confining us to a private inner world, places us in the midst of God’s bountiful creation. If you want to steer clear of theology, you might say Berkeley recognised that perception takes us out of ourselves into a world of shared experience.

Asking questions and deviating have been the trigger for progress, from the US revolution to the fall of the Berlin Wall

Professor Lotto, however, thinks your perceptions terminate at the boundaries of your brain, and while he is sparing with neurological detail, he is liberal with moral advice. Once you know your brain is delusional, he says, you must start “actively living the knowing”. You will need to “choose your delusions”, thus taking back control of your brain. You will have to ask yourself the big question: “Why are things this way and not another way?” And then you must prepare to deviate! Asking questions and deviating have, according to Lotto, been the trigger for every single step of human progress, from the American and French revolutions to the fall of the Berlin Wall; and in the 21st century we need to question and deviate as never before.

Let us question and deviate by all means. But once you start asking “Why?” you may well find yourself wondering why Lotto imagines that we need to take up neuroscience in order to do so: the American and French revolutionaries and the Berlin wall-demolishers seem to have managed quite well without it. You may also wonder why the question “Why?” is supposed to be allied to the politics of liberal progress: might it not lead to ignorant hate-filled exasperation instead? You might also want to ask why a 21st-century book about perception is printed in black and white and shades of grey without a dash of colour. As for deviation, my advice would be to deviate towards the works of Chevreul (you will find samples on the internet) and to Gregory’s Eye and Brain, which has never gone out of print.

• Deviate by Beau Lotto (W&N, £20). To order a copy for £15, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.