Tamil Nadu Farmers Protest, Arms Racket Busted In Delhi And Other Must Read Stories
Tamil Nadu Farmers Protest, Arms Racket Busted In Delhi And Other Must Read Stories
Tamil Nadu Farmers Protest, Arms Racket Busted In Delhi And Other Must Read Stories The demands of the Tamil Nadu farmers seem to be falling on deaf ears as the government has not listened to them for the last 40 days. The farmers demanding loan waiver took their protest to another level as they drank urine to protest the delay from the government. They took the extreme step after the two-day deadline the protesters had given to the government for a written assurance on loan waiver ended. Read more 1. Ahead Of MCD Polls, Delhi Police Bust An Arms Racket, Seize 20 Pistols Amid the preparations for the upcoming municipal elections, the Delhi police claimed to have busted an illegal firearm trading racket with the arrest of a 25-year-old man and recovery of at least 20 sophisticated semi-automatic pistols. According to reports, the accused, Taiyab, was arrested yesterday from near Harkesh Nagar Bus stand, Mathura Road and 20 semi-automatic sophisticated pistols of 7.65 mm were recovered, police said. Read more  2. TN Minister Tries To Save Water By Covering A Dam With Thermocol, And This Is Something Only He Could Have Thought Of According to Tamil Nadu Co-operatives Minister Sellur K Raju one way to save water is by making sure that the water doesn't get evaporated! So Mr Raju got this brilliant idea and decided to put that into practice. On Friday he took a large group of journalists to Vaigai dam in Madurai. Only after reaching there he disclosed his plan - to cover the entire dam surface with thermocol sheets to prevent the water from evaporating. Read more 3. Fuel On Call: Govt Plans Home Delivery Of Petrol, Diesel To Shorten The Queues At Petrol Pumps The oil ministry is planning a scheme under which fuel will be delivered at home like food items and LGP gas. According to reports this will be done through the vehicles carrying petroleum products which can deliver the required things at the doorsteps.

The demands of the Tamil Nadu farmers seem to be falling on deaf ears as the government has not listened to them for the last 40 days. The farmers demanding loan waiver took their protest to another level as they drank urine to protest the delay from the government.

They took the extreme step after the two-day deadline the protesters had given to the government for a written assurance on loan waiver ended. Read more

1. Ahead Of MCD Polls, Delhi Police Bust An Arms Racket, Seize 20 Pistols

Amid the preparations for the upcoming municipal elections, the Delhi police claimed to have busted an illegal firearm trading racket with the arrest of a 25-year-old man and recovery of at least 20 sophisticated semi-automatic pistols.

According to reports, the accused, Taiyab, was arrested yesterday from near Harkesh Nagar Bus stand, Mathura Road and 20 semi-automatic sophisticated pistols of 7.65 mm were recovered, police said. Read more

2. TN Minister Tries To Save Water By Covering A Dam With Thermocol, And This Is Something Only He Could Have Thought Of

According to Tamil Nadu Co-operatives Minister Sellur K Raju one way to save water is by making sure that the water doesn't get evaporated! So Mr Raju got this brilliant idea and decided to put that into practice. On Friday he took a large group of journalists to Vaigai dam in Madurai.

Only after reaching there he disclosed his plan - to cover the entire dam surface with thermocol sheets to prevent the water from evaporating. Read more

3. Fuel On Call: Govt Plans Home Delivery Of Petrol, Diesel To Shorten The Queues At Petrol Pumps

The oil ministry is planning a scheme under which fuel will be delivered at home like food items and LGP gas. According to reports this will be done through the vehicles carrying petroleum products which can deliver the required things at the doorsteps.

Don't Miss 9.3 K SHARES 98.8 K SHARES 59.1 K SHARES 56.6 K SHARES

"Suppose you leave for work at 9 am. So you go to the portal, book your delivery, make online payment and say that you want the fuel delivered at 8 am the next day. It will be done before you leave home," oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan told TOI on Friday. Read more

4. Govt Tells Restaurants To Let The Customers Decide How Much Service Charge They Wish To Pay

The Central government has once again made it clear that paying service charges at hotels and other eateries is completely up to the customers and it cannot be enforced.

Issuing an advisory on this regard, Consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan said, "Service charge has no legal sanctity. We have made it more clear for the benefit of consumers." Read more

5. Cow Vigilantes Thrash Five Of A Nomadic Family For Keeping Cattle In J&K; 9-YO Badly Hurt

A notorious vigilante group calling itself 'Gau Rakshaks' has shown its ugly colours, yet again, this time in Jammu and Kashmir.

A nomadic family herding their cattle was their latest victims. According to local media reports the nomad family was moving with their livestock near Talwara area on Thursday when they were intercepted by a large group of armed men. Read more