NBA investigating incident between fan and Houston Rockets guard Patrick Beverley
Sources: NBA reviewing Beverley, fan incident
Sources: NBA reviewing Beverley, fan incident Stop! How elite NBA defenders get job done BPI playoff chances for playoff teams How special were NBA superstars this season? With James Harden at point guard, 'Everybody eats' During the Rockets' Game 3 matchup, Patrick Beverley appears to take exception to something a fan says to him.  After the game concluded, Beverley went up to the fan before being escorted away. (0:34) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Senior writer for ESPN.com Spent seven years at the Los Angeles Daily News Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment OKLAHOMA CITY -- The NBA is investigating an incident between a fan and Houston Rockets guard Patrick Beverley after Game 3 of the Western Conference playoffs on Friday night, multiple league sources told ESPN. In the first half, Beverley got knocked down after attempting a layup and landed at a fan's feet, identified as Stuart Scaramucci, son of minority Thunder owner Jay Scaramucci. Beverley got up and immediately started to complain about Scaramucci. He pointed at Scaramucci as referee Scott Foster and several Rockets went to help him up. After the game, Beverley approached Scaramucci, who was sitting behind the basket, and they got into a heated discussion. Rockets forward Sam Dekker went to pull Beverley away and he left the court as fans yelled at him. A team source told ESPN the Rockets requested the league look into the incident after Beverley informed them of it. "The Rockets are taking care of the situation," Beverley said before Saturday's practice. "I'll talk after the investigation is done." Whenever an incident occurs, the league reviews footage from the arena and television broadcasts to determine if the player went into the stands before determining if any discipline is appropriate, sources said. Beverley also will be interviewed. A spokesman for Chesapeake Energy Arena told ESPN that the facility was aware of an incident occurring immediately following last night's game and would cooperate with the NBA any way it could. The spokesman said the arena had not yet received any requests from the NBA for information or video. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Sponsored Headlines

During the Rockets' Game 3 matchup, Patrick Beverley appears to take exception to something a fan says to him. After the game concluded, Beverley went up to the fan before being escorted away. (0:34)

OKLAHOMA CITY -- The NBA is investigating an incident between a fan and Houston Rockets guard Patrick Beverley after Game 3 of the Western Conference playoffs on Friday night, multiple league sources told ESPN.

In the first half, Beverley got knocked down after attempting a layup and landed at a fan's feet, identified as Stuart Scaramucci, son of minority Thunder owner Jay Scaramucci. Beverley got up and immediately started to complain about Scaramucci.

He pointed at Scaramucci as referee Scott Foster and several Rockets went to help him up. After the game, Beverley approached Scaramucci, who was sitting behind the basket, and they got into a heated discussion.

Rockets forward Sam Dekker went to pull Beverley away and he left the court as fans yelled at him. A team source told ESPN the Rockets requested the league look into the incident after Beverley informed them of it.

"The Rockets are taking care of the situation," Beverley said before Saturday's practice. "I'll talk after the investigation is done."

Whenever an incident occurs, the league reviews footage from the arena and television broadcasts to determine if the player went into the stands before determining if any discipline is appropriate, sources said. Beverley also will be interviewed.

A spokesman for Chesapeake Energy Arena told ESPN that the facility was aware of an incident occurring immediately following last night's game and would cooperate with the NBA any way it could. The spokesman said the arena had not yet received any requests from the NBA for information or video.

Information from ESPN's Calvin Watkins was used in this report.