'Deadpool 2' and Two New 'X-Men' Movies Just Got 2018 Release Dates
'Deadpool 2' and Two New 'X-Men' Movies Just Got 2018 Release Dates
Fans have been breathlessly awaiting the sequel to since the moment it released, and they won't be waiting much longer. Fox announced the official release date for on Saturday morning, and the follow-up to their surprise hit will debut on June 1, 2018. It's a relief to finally get the most important piece of information on following a steady stream of leaks on the project over the last year or so. The recently-released teaser for even poked fun at the anticipation in typical Deadpool fashion, with the words "Not Soon Enough" standing in for the release date: The new movie will feature significant additions to the cast Josh Brolin was selected to play the legendary mercenary Cable, and don't be surprised if other member of the X-Men slowly start finding their way into the series. will be part of an X-Men heavy lineup for the movie studio in 2018, as three different movies in the X-Men universe are set to release next year. a popular-spin off in the comic series featuring a cast of younger, teenaged mutants—will hit the box office first on April 13, 2018. The movie is expected to feature the junior X-Men facing off against one of their long-time enemies, Demon Bear. The final X-Men feature of 2018 will be a sequel to 2016's titled The storyline is a favorite for fans of the comic book series, and follows well-known mutant Jean Grey as she becomes host of the Phoenix Force, best described as the central hub of psychic power in the universe. is expected to show up in theaters on Nov. 2, 2018. In other Fox news, four different sequels also received release dates on Saturday, with James Cameron and Fox planning on releasing Avatar movies as far down the line as holiday season 2025.

Fans have been breathlessly awaiting the sequel to Deadpool since the moment it released, and they won't be waiting much longer. Fox announced the official release date for Deadpool 2 on Saturday morning, and the follow-up to their surprise hit will debut on June 1, 2018.

It's a relief to finally get the most important piece of information on Deadpool 2 following a steady stream of leaks on the project over the last year or so. The recently-released teaser for Deadpool 2 even poked fun at the anticipation in typical Deadpool fashion, with the words "Not Soon Enough" standing in for the release date:



The new movie will feature significant additions to the cast; Josh Brolin was selected to play the legendary mercenary Cable, and don't be surprised if other member of the X-Men slowly start finding their way into the Deadpool series.

Deadpool 2 will be part of an X-Men heavy lineup for the movie studio in 2018, as three different movies in the X-Men universe are set to release next year. New Mutants—a popular-spin off in the comic series featuring a cast of younger, teenaged mutants—will hit the box office first on April 13, 2018. The movie is expected to feature the junior X-Men facing off against one of their long-time enemies, Demon Bear.

The final X-Men feature of 2018 will be a sequel to 2016's X-Men: Apocalypse titled X-Men: Dark Phoenix. The Dark Phoenix storyline is a favorite for fans of the comic book series, and follows well-known mutant Jean Grey as she becomes host of the Phoenix Force, best described as the central hub of psychic power in the universe. Dark Phoenix is expected to show up in theaters on Nov. 2, 2018.

In other Fox news, four different Avatar sequels also received release dates on Saturday, with James Cameron and Fox planning on releasing Avatar movies as far down the line as holiday season 2025.