This London Crowd Completely Lost It When Giggs Performed His "KMT" Verse
This London Crowd Completely Lost It When Giggs Performed His "KMT" Verse
The U.K. received plenty of love on Drake’s album. Artists like Skepta, Jorja Smith, and Sampha were introduced to a wider U.S. audience with cameos on a handful of standout tracks. Some of Drizzy’s fans were into the British vibes, while others … not so much. This was most evident in Giggs ' polarizing verse on “KMT.” The cut was one of two that featured the South London rapper (the other being “No Long Talk”). It was clear that as soon as the project dropped, listeners either loved Giggs’ contributions or hated it. “It’s a wack verse. Giggs is dope, but it’s a wack verse,” DJ Akademiks said during an episode of Complex’s . “ […] It’s for the first time I’m seeing other people’s music culture, it’s kind of infiltrating and kind of being forced upon U.S. hip-hop culture […] People are still resisting the mother fucking just accent they got is just really turning a lot of people off, but I think we’re going to get used to it.” While we wait for Americans to get used to the sound, the U.K. is clearly loving all the recognition. During a recent performance in London, Giggs surprised fans with a performance of “KMT,” causing the crowd to go completely wild. You can barely hear Giggs’ voice as the audience chants every line in unison. The closing “Batman” line really got them going. You can check out clips of the performance below. LON DON❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ A post shared by GIGGS (@officialgiggs) on Apr 22, 2017 at 2:10am PDT LON FUCKIN DON PT.2 @champagnepapi MUUUUUUUUUD A post shared by GIGGS (@officialgiggs) on Apr 22, 2017 at 2:16am PDT

The U.K. received plenty of love on Drake’s More Life album. Artists like Skepta, Jorja Smith, and Sampha were introduced to a wider U.S. audience with cameos on a handful of standout tracks. Some of Drizzy’s fans were into the British vibes, while others … not so much. This was most evident in Giggs' polarizing verse on “KMT.”

The cut was one of two that featured the South London rapper (the other being “No Long Talk”). It was clear that as soon as the project dropped, listeners either loved Giggs’ contributions or hated it.

“It’s a wack verse. Giggs is dope, but it’s a wack verse,” DJ Akademiks said during an episode of Complex’s Everyday Struggle. “ […] It’s for the first time I’m seeing other people’s music culture, it’s kind of infiltrating and kind of being forced upon U.S. hip-hop culture […] People are still resisting the mother fucking just accent they got is just really turning a lot of people off, but I think we’re going to get used to it.”

While we wait for Americans to get used to the sound, the U.K. is clearly loving all the recognition. During a recent performance in London, Giggs surprised fans with a performance of “KMT,” causing the crowd to go completely wild. You can barely hear Giggs’ voice as the audience chants every line in unison. The closing “Batman” line really got them going.

You can check out clips of the performance below.

LON DON❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️ A post shared by GIGGS (@officialgiggs) on Apr 22, 2017 at 2:10am PDT