War veterans: Confessions of a Japanese kamikaze pilot, Nazi officer, Russian war hero and more...
War veterans: Confessions of a Japanese kamikaze pilot, Nazi officer, Russian war hero and more...
hotographer Sasha Maslov has tracked down more than 100 Second World War veterans over the last decade - and has travelled around the world to photograph them at home. Among his subjects are a Japanese pilot who was recruited at just 14, a German officer who risked execution by his own country to help his men, and a heroic British SAS commando. Here he shares some of their remarkable stories Ken Smith, Britain I remember the day the war broke out . I was in church and at 11am Chamberlain was going to make an announcement,  so I ran home. I remember him saying, ‘We are at a state of war.’ e were told to be ready for air raids, so the first thing  I did was go into the garden and dig a  big trench. I was there the whole day, expecting a raid. But during the night, it rained heavily, and the next morning  the trench was filled up with water. I loved football, and a friend of mine said, ‘Join the Royal Marines; you’ll get plenty of football.’ I joined when I was 18 and was sent to a ship in Newcastle, HMS Manchester. We used to go around Iceland in the bitter cold, looking for German weather ships. ne day we pulled into Scapa Flow, off the coast of Scotland, to collect supplies from HMS Hood [the last battlecruiser built for the Royal Navy], and I received a telegram that said my father was dying. tried to get leave, but because I was a gunner, the commander said no. I asked for the captain: he said no. So I said, ‘Can I see the admiral?’ He was on HMS Hood. I had to dress up in my best uniform before seeing him.  While I was getting ready, they spotted the Bismarck (the German battleship). ressed in my best, I had to help hoist the ship’s anchor. The bugle went, and we shot out of Scapa Flow. We went looking around the north of Iceland, while the Bismarck went around the Denmark Strait, and the Hood went along the south. The Bismarck sunk it, blew her to bits. We chased the Bismarck until we ran out of petrol. We were lucky enough that she was sunk about a week later by five ships. Next we took a convoy to Malta. We were almost there when torpedo bombers attacked us. The stern of the ship was blown away; we had a lot killed. he deck was covered in blood and oil and there were bodies all around. We made it back to Gibraltar and were patched up, but they weren’t equipped for all the repairs. We were in Philadelphia next and as soon as we docked, hundreds of workmen came aboard and repaired us  – this was hush-hush because America wasn’t in the war at the time. Later I was sent to another ship, the HMS Penelope, which was hit so many times we became known as HMS Pepperpot. The Germans were about to invade Greece in 1941, so we left Algeria and bumped into a German invasion armada on the way. We sunk most of it. hile leaving, we were hit by a bomb. We had a lot killed on the gun deck. The sergeant major asked if I would like to be a commando and I said, ‘Anything to get off this ship.’ hortly after I left, the Penelope was hit by three torpedoes – 417 men went down with her. I spent the rest of the war as a commando in a new top-secret unit [the SAS]. First I went to its base in Haifa, Israel, then I did ski training, a parachute course, a gunnery course in Jerusalem, and a sniping course in Cairo  (I went to the pyramids, where they had  a range) before being attached to a special boat section in two-man canoes. e did commando raids on various islands. I got a bullet in the arm in 1944 during a night raid on the island of Lošinj, in Croatia, as the Germans were waiting for us. The bullet is still there. When the war ended, my SAS unit was ordered to return and I was on the first boat back to England .  These days, the past is hard to remember, but I can recall those exploits like they were yesterday. Haku Kikuchi, Japan I was born into a family of farmers; the fourth of six children and the only boy. When the war started, the other men in my area [Ibaraki, east Japan] went to be soldiers. I began training in 1941 , at 12 years old. I was young. I wanted to help Japan. I had no fear of death. e had been taught that we should be honoured to die for our country – everyone was brainwashed and we thought it was noble – so I applied to become a child pilot when I turned 14. merican planes would fly over and bomb us. When Japanese planes met them in the air, the Americans would shoot them down. I remember being very scared. nce, a bunch of P-51s [fighter planes] flew over – so many, I couldn’t see the sky. They shot up everything. When I heard the war was over, I thought everything was ended. I couldn’t believe it at first. We had been told that we were winning. Then again, we were brainwashed to believe the Emperor Hirohito was God. After we realised that he wasn’t, we lost our will to fight. We were embarrassed. So many people died for nothing in the war. Stuart Hodes, USA The day of the Pearl Harbor attack, my brother and I were in the kitchen of our family apartment in New York, and we jumped up and down in excitement. We wanted to get into the war. I wanted to be a pilot – I’d read the ads in the paper. n 1943, when I was 18, I was drafted into the Army Air Corps (we didn’t call it the Air Force then) and sent for training, then 10 weeks of tests. There were colour-blindness tests, they put us in a room with tear gas, and they checked we could swim. When we graduated we were sent to either a school for multi-engine planes (bombers) or for single-engine planes (fighters). was sent to  a twin-engine school because they needed bomber pilots . Part of the reason you wanted to become a fighter  pilot was the glamour, but the secret was that they were also safer. asualties were fewer than with bombers. We weren’t fire-breathing Top Gun types. We wanted to survive. We flew about two missions a week. loved flying – I was crazy about it.  On my sixth or seventh, I was sent to look for a target over the Alps but it was covered by heavy clouds. We were allowed a target of opportunity (one against which bombing has not been planned), so we looked for a bridge and bombed it. I turned the plane on one side to see if we’d hit it – that was the first time I got a real sense that I was maybe killing people. Anatoly Uvarov, Russia In May 1942, after basic training at a naval-engineering school in Leningrad (now St Petersburg), I joined the Caspian Flotilla. There was a lot of action.  Tankers came from Baku, Azerbaijan, and transferred oil to smaller tankers that would go up the Volga river to refineries in Russia. he Germans learnt this was happening and began to bombard the transfer points – so the Caspian Flotilla was involved in taking down German planes. Our ship, the Polyus, a regular vessel rebuilt for war use with anti-aircraft guns on the bow and stern, was so effective that the Germans were forced to bomb from higher altitudes, reducing their accuracy. I remember only one bombardment reached a tanker. t was at night, and the oil had spilt and caught fire over the water. A terrifying scene. It looked like the sea was on fire. I could see people jumping from the flaming vessel. here was nowhere for them to go but into the fire in the water. After the war, I was awarded a medal ‘for the victory over Germany ’. This was presented during the Victory Parade, which took place on 24 June, 1945. t was outstanding – an incredible parade that was organised on the orders of Stalin. About 15,000 soldiers took part. I’ll never forget that day. It’s something that has stayed with me my entire life. Michele Montagano, Italy In 1942 I was one of the GAF (Guardia alla Frontiera) soldiers fighting  against the Yugoslav Tito Partisans (a Communist-led resistance to the Axis powers). t was tough. In the daytime, they were smiling and saying hello, but at night they were our enemies. n September 1943, the state ordered us to return home: Italy had become the enemy of Germany. The Nazis caught us two days later. They treated us like animals. We were put on trains with 50 or 60 of us in each carriage and kept without fresh air for nine days, then taken to various camps. After an agreement between Mussolini and Hitler, we were told that Italian prisoners had to work for the Germans, but a group of 214 of us refused, arguing that under international law, official soldiers can’t be made to do civilian work. he German guards divided us into groups, and threatened to kill some of us if we didn’t. When we still refused they took us outside to be shot. We waited for six hours but nothing happened. Later we heard that it was decided at government level to keep us alive. ext we were taken to a camp in Unterlüß [a satellite of Belsen], Germany, where the Russian and Polish guards used to beat prisoners. Our destiny was to die. Then, after 40 days, the Allied troops appeared. Just like that, we were free. We exploded with happiness. Willie Glaser, Canada My family were Polish Jews. I was one of five children and lived a happy childhood with my three sisters and brother in Bavaria, Germany. But when the Hitler years arrived, it became very tough. y father, who worked in the toy-export industry, tried frantically to take us all to England, but was unable to make it work.He managed to send one of my sisters there, and in 1939, when  I was 17, he arranged for me to go to Belfast. I resolved that it was my duty to join the effort and went to the British recruiting office. Because of my passport, I was sent to join the Polish Army that was forming in Scotland. owards the end of the war, when  I was in the 10th (Polish) Mounted Rifles regiment, we were commanded to get our tanks ready and head to Normandy. Within weeks, we were thrust into one of the biggest battles of the war, the Battle of the Falaise Pocket. Over 50,000 German soldiers  were pounced on by British, American and Polish troops. ince I was a German speaker, I interviewed the German soldiers and learnt that some were officers of the 12th SS Hitler Unit, Hitler’s bodyguard regiment. When I asked one for his ID card, it showed that he was from my hometown. I spoke to him in our dialect then told him he was being interrogated by a Jew. hat knocked his socks off. Years later, after settling in Canada, I learnt my parents and three of my  siblings were murdered in Bėlzec concentration camp. In my quiet moments  I pondered the war. I had no idea how my Christian friends were capable of killing so many. Aged six, we all played together. Then war turned them into monsters. It was heartbreaking, but I couldn’t let it break me. Uli John, Germany In 1944, after attending officers’ school in Berlin, I went to Belgium for the Ardennes offensive, and on 31 December, I lost my left arm. here was an order from the highest levels of the army , that all those with injured arms or legs should have amputations because recovery would be faster. It meant that four weeks later, amputees would be at the front. Later, I went back to Germany for the final fight against the Americans. he soldiers on the front line had no idea what was happening at home. We were told that we weren’t going to war against America or France, only that we were going to rescue the homeland. Perhaps many of us were doing wrong things with good intentions. I remember once, on Christmas Eve, in Russia, soldiers were throwing presents they’d gotten from home to each other, across the lines. he packages were full of sweets, cakes, cigarettes. A symbol for the holiday. The last year of the war was a mess. I was an officer, commanding my unit, and I did something forbidden: I dissolved my unit. wrote everyone leave passes and put them in groups of two or three with one weapon among them. They all made it back. I could have been shot for this but the war was ending and I felt that they needed to get home. After the war I established contact with many veterans in foreign countries : France, Russia, the US. I made some friends of former enemies. Only people who fought in the war know what war really means.

Photographer Sasha Maslov has tracked down more than 100 Second World War veterans over the last decade - and has travelled around the world to photograph them at home. Among his subjects are a Japanese pilot who was recruited at just 14, a German officer who risked execution by his own country to help his men, and a heroic British SAS commando. Here he shares some of their remarkable stories

Ken Smith, Britain

I remember the day the war broke out. I was in church and at 11am Chamberlain was going to make an announcement, so I ran home. I remember him saying, ‘We are at a state of war.’