We need to stop being hysterical about President Erdogan – he is not all Turkey has to offer
We need to stop being hysterical about President Erdogan – he is not all Turkey has to offer
I fell in love with Turkey several years ago when I went on a solo trip to Huzur Vadisi, a yoga retreat in the middle of a huge pine forests, high above the small town of Göcek on the country’s southwestern coast. I’m not the kind of person who jumps at the opportunity of travelling to a foreign country alone. I’m neither brave nor adventurous enough. So less than a month after the Gezi Park protests and a wave of civil unrest that swept through the country, Turkey was far from the top of my travel list. Perhaps the trip was a test of sorts, and after a few days my patience wore somewhat thin on the yoga, but I’d rarely experienced such deep and genuine hospitality, felt so welcome and appreciated, and been spoiled with such cultural and culinary delights. UK news in pictures               UK news in pictures    20 April 2017   Casket of civil rights activist Darcus Howe   Rex     20 April 2017   Tamara Howe, reads an intimate address to the congregation about her father Darcus Howe   Rex     20 April 2017   Funeral of civil rights activist Darcus Howe, All Saints Church, Notting Hill, London.  The service held in the church also incuded the Mangrove Steelpan pan, who played Amazing Grace to the congregation. Tamara Howe, Darcu Howes daughter addressed the mourners with an intimate insight into the activists life, and a handwritten letter from the leader of the Labour party Jeremy Corbyn was read out, thanking Mr Howe for all his contributions throughout his life   Rex     20 April 2017   British Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson greets US Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul Ryan at the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office in central London   EPA     20 April 2017   Labour Leader Jeremy Corbyn waves to supporters as he arrives to make his first campaign speech of the 2017 general election at Assembly Hall in Westminster   Getty Images     20 April 2017   Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May visits radar manufacturer Kelvin Hughes Limited in Enfield, north London   Reuters     19 April 2017   Physiotherapist Aldo Vetere and Wladimir Klitschko during a training session   Rex     19 April 2017   Anthony Joshua takes a break during the media workout at EIS Sheffield   Getty Images     19 April 2017   Whizbee the Bee, mascot for the World Para Athletics Championships and Hero the Hedgehog, mascot for the IAAF World Championships London 2017 pose for pictures near Tower Bridge, London   Getty Images     18 April 2017   Prime Minister Theresa May makes a statement in Downing Street, London, announcing a snap general election   PA wire     10 April 2017   A girls looks at floral tributes for PC Keith Palmer during the funeral parade outside Parliament in London   EPA     10 April 2017   Police officers line the route in Southwark as the funeral procession of PC Keith Palmer makes its way to Southwark Cathedral   Getty Images     10 April 2017   Pall bearers carry the coffin of PC Keith Palmer, in to Southwark Cathedral   Getty Images     9 April 2017   John Boyega attends The Olivier Awards 2017 at Royal Albert Hall in London   Getty Images     9 April 2017   Amanda Holden attends The Olivier Awards 2017 at Royal Albert Hall in London   Getty Images     9 April 2017   Kenneth Branagh and Lindsay Brunnock attend The Olivier Awards 2017 at the Royal Albert Hall   Getty Images     6 April 2017   London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app   PA wire     6 April 2017   London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app.   PA wire     6 April 2017   The cocaine haul in the fishing boat The Bianca, as her skipper Michael McDermott will be sentenced after he tried to smuggle more than £80 million of cocaine into the UK   PA wire     6 April 2017   Jon Platt arrives at the Supreme Court in central London with his wife Sally where the Court will rule on the much-anticipated legal case on an unauthorised holiday during school term time   PA wire     6 April 2017   Bunny Penny, the Playboy Club Bunny of the Year wears an edible chocolate corset and bunny ears at Marble Arch in London   PA wire     6 April 2017   105-year-old Jack Reynolds receives his Guinness World Record certificate after riding the Twistersaurus rollercoaster to raise money for the Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Rutland Air Ambulance fund at Flamingo Land in Malton, North Yorkshire.  Reynolds, who broke a Guinness World Record by becoming the oldest person in the world to get a tattoo at the age of 104, said he was not nervous, particularly after flying in a Tiger Moth plane last year   PA wire     6 April 2017   Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, leaves after meeting Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May inside 10 Downing Street   Reuters     5 April 2017   Member of the European Parliament and former leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage wears socks with Union Jack flag at the European Parliament in Strasbourg   Getty Images     5 April 2017    Getty Images     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands   Rui Vieira/PA Wire     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     2 April 2017   Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy   Reuters     1 April 2017   Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London   Ben Stevens/PA Wire  Several years later, and unrelated, I married into a Turkish family. We visit Izmir, Turkey’s third biggest city, regularly. Two months after last July’s coup d’état attempt, we threw a huge engagement party there. Friends and family came from all over. A local farmer lent us his donkey for me to ride in on. I’ve rarely laughed harder in my life. People gave us more gifts than we could pack in our suitcases and I never wanted to leave. Last Sunday, President Tayyip Erdogan declared victory in a deeply acrimonious referendum granting him sweeping powers to make decisions without parliamentary approval. It’s likely that many of the changes won’t come into effect for some time, but already (and to my non-expert eye) this looks like the most radical overhaul of the modern Turkish political system yet. The legitimacy of the vote has been challenged by opponents of the government, sparking a fierce war of words, and on the international stage what’s happening in the country isn’t doing Turkey any favours. Countries including Germany and the Netherlands banned Turkish officials from holding rallies ahead of the referendum, further damaging already battered relations. After the vote, Erdogan repeated that he intends to review Turkey’s suspension of the death penalty, something that could well be a final nail in the coffin for the country’s half-century-long ambition of EU accession. Add to the mix that Turkey is at the epicentre of a historical migrant crisis. Ten year ago we associated the country’s beaches with boozed-up Brits on package holidays. Now we associate them with rubber dinghies under cover of darkness. It’s not easy to sell Turkey, neither as a tourist destination nor as an investment case. The currency is hitting a fresh record low every time I look and has depreciated more than 27 per cent against the dollar over the last year. Interest rates have been jacked up by hundreds of basis points this year alone. Alarm bells are certainly ringing but the country is not about to default. This is not Argentina or Ukraine or Greece. The IMF forecasts economic growth of 2.5 per cent for the country this year and 3.3 per cent next. That’s not quite the above four per cent the government itself is predicting, but – just for context – the IMF thinks the eurozone economy will grow by 1.7 per cent in 2017 and the UK by two per cent. And yes, an emerging economy would naturally be expected to have a faster growth rate than a developed economy or region, but not one that’s on the cusp of collapse.   The European dream is over for Turkey The index of the 30 biggest stocks listed in Istanbul has risen more than seven per cent over the last year, partially as a result of the crashing lira, but Turkey is the EU’s fourth largest export market and the fifth largest provider of imports to the bloc. Topically, it has a customs union with the EU that’s unlikely to go away any time soon – something that’s not the case for every country now, is it? Turkey’s banks, which account for almost 40 per cent of that stock index, remain well-capitalised and Moody’s assigns a Ba1 credit rating to its sovereign debt. That qualifies as junk but it’s still 10 notches above what’s considered to be a default. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch have it at BB and BB+ respectively, in the same ballpark and a far cry from bankruptcy. The country can still borrow money on international markets. Investors still hold Turkish assets. Geopolitical risk is sky high, and the future is about as clear as a room full of tightly packed Anatolian whirling dervishes, but through it all there is a case for buying into Turkey – financially or otherwise – at some point in the future. And now perhaps more relevantly for most of us, the hoi polloi of cash-strapped, sun-seeking, holiday-starved tourists: Turkey is beautiful, largely safe in places where you would want to holiday, deeply welcoming and culturally one of the richest places in the world.   The reason Trump congratulated Erdogan is disturbing The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against travel to within six miles of the border with Syria and to Diyarbakir, the city at the centre of a bloody conflict between the government and Kurdish insurgent groups, but also says that it’s “generally” safe to travel to the country. The UK Government warns of “a high threat from terrorism” following a string of attacks in Turkey, but the same warning applies to France, Germany, Belgium, Australia, Russia and dozens of other countries. Despite the weak pound against a lofty euro, we don’t think twice about hopping on a flight to Paris or Berlin for the weekend. Or getting on the Tube in London. We live in a world where terrorism has become commonplace, economic distress and market turmoil the norm, and world leaders profoundly and terrifyingly divisive. But we must stop reducing countries to their faults. Not the UK, not the US and certainly not Turkey. More about: Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan European Union Comments

I fell in love with Turkey several years ago when I went on a solo trip to Huzur Vadisi, a yoga retreat in the middle of a huge pine forests, high above the small town of Göcek on the country’s southwestern coast.

I’m not the kind of person who jumps at the opportunity of travelling to a foreign country alone. I’m neither brave nor adventurous enough. So less than a month after the Gezi Park protests and a wave of civil unrest that swept through the country, Turkey was far from the top of my travel list.

Perhaps the trip was a test of sorts, and after a few days my patience wore somewhat thin on the yoga, but I’d rarely experienced such deep and genuine hospitality, felt so welcome and appreciated, and been spoiled with such cultural and culinary delights.

UK news in pictures







30 show all UK news in pictures

























































1/30 20 April 2017 Casket of civil rights activist Darcus Howe Rex

2/30 20 April 2017 Tamara Howe, reads an intimate address to the congregation about her father Darcus Howe Rex

3/30 20 April 2017 Funeral of civil rights activist Darcus Howe, All Saints Church, Notting Hill, London. The service held in the church also incuded the Mangrove Steelpan pan, who played Amazing Grace to the congregation. Tamara Howe, Darcu Howes daughter addressed the mourners with an intimate insight into the activists life, and a handwritten letter from the leader of the Labour party Jeremy Corbyn was read out, thanking Mr Howe for all his contributions throughout his life Rex

4/30 20 April 2017 British Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson greets US Speaker of the House of Representatives Paul Ryan at the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office in central London EPA

5/30 20 April 2017 Labour Leader Jeremy Corbyn waves to supporters as he arrives to make his first campaign speech of the 2017 general election at Assembly Hall in Westminster Getty Images

6/30 20 April 2017 Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May visits radar manufacturer Kelvin Hughes Limited in Enfield, north London Reuters

7/30 19 April 2017 Physiotherapist Aldo Vetere and Wladimir Klitschko during a training session Rex

8/30 19 April 2017 Anthony Joshua takes a break during the media workout at EIS Sheffield Getty Images

9/30 19 April 2017 Whizbee the Bee, mascot for the World Para Athletics Championships and Hero the Hedgehog, mascot for the IAAF World Championships London 2017 pose for pictures near Tower Bridge, London Getty Images

10/30 18 April 2017 Prime Minister Theresa May makes a statement in Downing Street, London, announcing a snap general election PA wire

11/30 10 April 2017 A girls looks at floral tributes for PC Keith Palmer during the funeral parade outside Parliament in London EPA

12/30 10 April 2017 Police officers line the route in Southwark as the funeral procession of PC Keith Palmer makes its way to Southwark Cathedral Getty Images

13/30 10 April 2017 Pall bearers carry the coffin of PC Keith Palmer, in to Southwark Cathedral Getty Images

14/30 9 April 2017 John Boyega attends The Olivier Awards 2017 at Royal Albert Hall in London Getty Images

15/30 9 April 2017 Amanda Holden attends The Olivier Awards 2017 at Royal Albert Hall in London Getty Images

16/30 9 April 2017 Kenneth Branagh and Lindsay Brunnock attend The Olivier Awards 2017 at the Royal Albert Hall Getty Images

17/30 6 April 2017 London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app PA wire

18/30 6 April 2017 London black cab drivers hold a demonstration in Whitehall during a protest over the regulation private hire cars using the Uber app. PA wire

19/30 6 April 2017 The cocaine haul in the fishing boat The Bianca, as her skipper Michael McDermott will be sentenced after he tried to smuggle more than £80 million of cocaine into the UK PA wire

20/30 6 April 2017 Jon Platt arrives at the Supreme Court in central London with his wife Sally where the Court will rule on the much-anticipated legal case on an unauthorised holiday during school term time PA wire

21/30 6 April 2017 Bunny Penny, the Playboy Club Bunny of the Year wears an edible chocolate corset and bunny ears at Marble Arch in London PA wire

22/30 6 April 2017 105-year-old Jack Reynolds receives his Guinness World Record certificate after riding the Twistersaurus rollercoaster to raise money for the Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Rutland Air Ambulance fund at Flamingo Land in Malton, North Yorkshire. Reynolds, who broke a Guinness World Record by becoming the oldest person in the world to get a tattoo at the age of 104, said he was not nervous, particularly after flying in a Tiger Moth plane last year PA wire

23/30 6 April 2017 Donald Tusk, the President of the European Council, leaves after meeting Britain's Prime Minister, Theresa May inside 10 Downing Street Reuters

24/30 5 April 2017 Member of the European Parliament and former leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP) Nigel Farage wears socks with Union Jack flag at the European Parliament in Strasbourg Getty Images

25/30 5 April 2017 Getty Images

26/30 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, arrives to lay flowers and view floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

27/30 2 April 2017 Lydia Wilkinson, the daughter of stabbing victims Peter and Tracey Wilkinson, views floral tributes at her family home in Stourbridge, West Midlands Rui Vieira/PA Wire

28/30 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles stands next to Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

29/30 2 April 2017 Britain's Prince Charles walks along with Italy's Civil Protection agency members during his visit to the town of Amatrice, which was levelled after an earthquake last year, in central Italy Reuters

30/30 1 April 2017 Britain First and EDL (English Defence League) protesters walk along Northumberland Avenue during a demonstration in London Ben Stevens/PA Wire

Several years later, and unrelated, I married into a Turkish family. We visit Izmir, Turkey’s third biggest city, regularly. Two months after last July’s coup d’état attempt, we threw a huge engagement party there. Friends and family came from all over. A local farmer lent us his donkey for me to ride in on. I’ve rarely laughed harder in my life. People gave us more gifts than we could pack in our suitcases and I never wanted to leave.

Last Sunday, President Tayyip Erdogan declared victory in a deeply acrimonious referendum granting him sweeping powers to make decisions without parliamentary approval. It’s likely that many of the changes won’t come into effect for some time, but already (and to my non-expert eye) this looks like the most radical overhaul of the modern Turkish political system yet.

The legitimacy of the vote has been challenged by opponents of the government, sparking a fierce war of words, and on the international stage what’s happening in the country isn’t doing Turkey any favours.

Countries including Germany and the Netherlands banned Turkish officials from holding rallies ahead of the referendum, further damaging already battered relations.

After the vote, Erdogan repeated that he intends to review Turkey’s suspension of the death penalty, something that could well be a final nail in the coffin for the country’s half-century-long ambition of EU accession.

Recep Tayyip Erdogan to Turkish referendum critics: ‘Talk to the hand’

Add to the mix that Turkey is at the epicentre of a historical migrant crisis. Ten year ago we associated the country’s beaches with boozed-up Brits on package holidays. Now we associate them with rubber dinghies under cover of darkness.

It’s not easy to sell Turkey, neither as a tourist destination nor as an investment case. The currency is hitting a fresh record low every time I look and has depreciated more than 27 per cent against the dollar over the last year. Interest rates have been jacked up by hundreds of basis points this year alone. Alarm bells are certainly ringing but the country is not about to default. This is not Argentina or Ukraine or Greece.

The IMF forecasts economic growth of 2.5 per cent for the country this year and 3.3 per cent next. That’s not quite the above four per cent the government itself is predicting, but – just for context – the IMF thinks the eurozone economy will grow by 1.7 per cent in 2017 and the UK by two per cent.

And yes, an emerging economy would naturally be expected to have a faster growth rate than a developed economy or region, but not one that’s on the cusp of collapse.

The index of the 30 biggest stocks listed in Istanbul has risen more than seven per cent over the last year, partially as a result of the crashing lira, but Turkey is the EU’s fourth largest export market and the fifth largest provider of imports to the bloc.

Topically, it has a customs union with the EU that’s unlikely to go away any time soon – something that’s not the case for every country now, is it?

Turkey’s banks, which account for almost 40 per cent of that stock index, remain well-capitalised and Moody’s assigns a Ba1 credit rating to its sovereign debt. That qualifies as junk but it’s still 10 notches above what’s considered to be a default. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch have it at BB and BB+ respectively, in the same ballpark and a far cry from bankruptcy. The country can still borrow money on international markets. Investors still hold Turkish assets.

Geopolitical risk is sky high, and the future is about as clear as a room full of tightly packed Anatolian whirling dervishes, but through it all there is a case for buying into Turkey – financially or otherwise – at some point in the future.

And now perhaps more relevantly for most of us, the hoi polloi of cash-strapped, sun-seeking, holiday-starved tourists: Turkey is beautiful, largely safe in places where you would want to holiday, deeply welcoming and culturally one of the richest places in the world.

The UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against travel to within six miles of the border with Syria and to Diyarbakir, the city at the centre of a bloody conflict between the government and Kurdish insurgent groups, but also says that it’s “generally” safe to travel to the country.

The UK Government warns of “a high threat from terrorism” following a string of attacks in Turkey, but the same warning applies to France, Germany, Belgium, Australia, Russia and dozens of other countries. Despite the weak pound against a lofty euro, we don’t think twice about hopping on a flight to Paris or Berlin for the weekend. Or getting on the Tube in London.

We live in a world where terrorism has become commonplace, economic distress and market turmoil the norm, and world leaders profoundly and terrifyingly divisive. But we must stop reducing countries to their faults. Not the UK, not the US and certainly not Turkey.