'Hobbits’ may be one of the earliest form of human
'Hobbits’ in Indonesia may be one of the earliest forms of human


For more than one million years, the remote Indonesian island of Flores was home to a mysterious species of Hobbit-sized humans.

Called Homo floresiensis, the primitive humans stood at just 3ft (0.9 metres) tall and until now, little has been known about their origins.

But researchers have finally discovered that the tiny island dwellers evolved from one the earliest species of human more than 1.75 million years ago - and they may have been the first out of Africa.

Scroll down for video

Scientists have discovered that the miniature human species Homo floresiensis evolved thousands of years earlier than previously believed. They came to this conclusion by studying the skeleton of H. floresiensis, which has a number of primitive features (pictured)

WHO WERE THE FLORES HOBBITS? Standing a little over 3ft (0.9 metres) tall, the inhabitants of Liang Bua cave on the remote Indonesian island of Flores are known from just a few fragmented remains. The first remains were found in 2003 and since then partial skeletons of nine individuals, including one complete skull have been unearthed. Researchers believe the little people were descendants of prehistoric humans, who became isolated on the island around one million years ago. There are various theories for how they got there. Some believe they may have walked across a landbridge from the mainland Asia and as sea levels rose they became cut off. Others suggest they were swept to the island following a tsunami. Once cut off, these hominins then had to survive on what food they could find, they evolved a small stature. Scientists have previously said they were clever hunters because they had found evidence of toolmaking, butchering and fires.

Scientists carried out the world's most comprehensive study on the bones of the Flores people and found that they most likely evolved at the same time as Homo habilis.

Homo habilis is one of the earliest species of human, which lived in Africa roughly 2.1 to 1.5 million years ago.

The findings cast doubt on the widely held assumption that the islanders evolved from Homo erectus, a more modern species of human.

The new discovery means that the Flores island people evolved hundreds of thousands of years earlier than previously thought.

Lead researcher Dr Debbie Argue, from the Australian National University, told MailOnline: 'We analysed the characteristics of the skulls, jaws, and teeth; and shoulder, arm and leg bones of H. floresiensis and compared them to H. erectus, another species of Homo, and the Australopithecines [early human-like ancestor].

'Using a statistical program, we produced a family tree of relationships among the species.

'In this we found that H. floresiensis was very closely related to H. habilis.

Homo floresiensis (pictured) is a primitive human species that stood at just 3ft (0.9 metres) tall. Pictured is an artist's reconstruction of the species

HOW DO WE KNOW WHEN THE HOBBITS EVOLVED? An artist used information from fossiled remains to create a detailed 3D reconstruction of a Flores woman Researchers have finally discovered that the tiny island dwellers evolved from one the earliest species of human more than 1.75 million years ago. Where previous research had focused mostly on the skull and lower jaw, this study used 133 data points ranging across the skull, jaws, teeth, arms, legs and shoulders. The researchers found that many parts of the body indicated that Homo floresiensis was more primitive than previously thought. The findings casts doubt on the widely held assumption that the islanders evolved from Homo erectus, a more modern species of human. Dr Debbie Argue, from the Australian National University, talked through these body parts with MailOnline. Arms and legs: 'It's got relatively short legs that make the arms appear long,' she said. 'Not as long as, say, a chimpanzee, but way outside the range of modern humans.' Feet: 'It's got long feet compared to the length of the legs,' Dr Argue said. 'Even though they were such short, one-metre tall beings. 'Again, this is way outside the range we see in modern humans.' Shoulders: 'Its shoulders are shrugged and face forward,' she said. Skull: Dr Argue said: 'The skull is low, widest around the level of the ears; and it has a sloping forehead. 'It has a mound of bone in the eyebrow area that extends around the outside of the eye area. 'It has no chin. Instead the jaw slopes backwards.' Pelvis: 'The pelvis is like that of Australopithecus afarensis,' she said. A. afarensis is an human-like ape that lived 3.9 million years ago.

'In fact, we can say that these two species are most likely to have shared a unique common ancestor that was not shared with any other species in our analysis.'

Dr Argue said none of the data supported the theory that Homo floresiensis evolved from Homo erectus.

'We looked at whether Homo floresiensis could be descended from Homo erectus,' she said.

'We found that if you try and link them on the family tree, you get a very unsupported result.

'All the tests say it doesn't fit - it's just not a viable theory.'

Homo floresiensis is known to have lived on Flores until as recently as 54,000 years ago.

A skull of a Flores man. Scientists carried out the world's most comprehensive study on the bones of the Flores people and found that they most likely evolved 1.75 million years ago

Leg bones of the Flores man. The species had short legs and long arms, a feature common of early humans and modern apes such as the chimpanzee

The study suggests that the island dwellers may have lived undisturbed in Indonesia for more than one million years.

Dr Argue said: 'Now to me this is one of the most amazing aspects of H. floresiensis.

'It existed at least between around 60,000 and 100,000 years ago on Flores, Indonesia.

'H. habilis, its closest relative, however, lived in Africa from around 1.75 million years ago till one million years ago.

A profile view of a H. floresiensis skull. The skull's sloping forehead and lack of chin suggest that the early humans were primitive

'They shared a common ancestor, so we have to conclude that H. floresiensis' lineage must have evolved earlier than H. habilis, or, perhaps, around the same time.

'So even though we only know of H. floresiensis from relatively recent times, its linage would go back 1.75 million years ago or more.'

Researchers used their fingings to create a detailed 3D reconstruction of a Flores woman.

Where previous research had focused mostly on the skull and lower jaw, this study used 133 data points ranging across the skull, jaws, teeth, arms, legs and shoulders.

Jaw bones of H. floresiensis. The jaw slopes backwards, which suggests that Flores were a primitive species of human

H. floresiensis lived in Liang Bua cave on the remote Indonesian island of Flores and are known from just a few fragmented remains

The researchers found that many parts of the body indicated that H. floresiensis was more primitive than previously thought.

For example, the species had short legs and long arms, a feature common of early humans and modern apes such as the chimpanzee.

It also had primitive facial features.

Dr Argue said: 'The skull is low, widest around the level of the ears; and it has a sloping forehead.

'It has a mound of bone in the eyebrow area that extends around the outside of the eye area.

The shape of the skull suggested that the tiny people had small brains and may not have been intelligent as other Hominin species

'It has no chin. Instead the jaw slopes backwards.'

She added the shape of the skull suggested that the tiny people had small brains and may not have been intelligent as other Hominin species.

But there is evidence that the primitive people had well developed frontal lobes, the part of the brain associated with more complex human behaviours.

'We studied scans of the imprint of the brain inside the H. floresiensis skull,' Dr Argue said.

'We found that H. floresiensis had a highly developed frontal lobe.

Shoulder bones of H. floresiensis. The species had sloping shoulders, a feature of our earliest human ancestors

'This is the part of the brain that helps us plan, pass information from generation to generation, and learn from mistakes.'

Her study also sheds light on why the Flores people were so small.

Scientists once believed that the Flores people were deformed modern humans, affected by a condition similar to dwarfism.

But the new study suggests that the people may have been small because they evolved before H. erectus, which was the first hominin to grow tall.

An artist used features of the skull to recreate the face of a Flores woman. The artist first estimated the points of muscle attachment and then used software to add a layer of skin

Dr Argue said: 'H. floresiensis is indeed a small species.

'But they were not much smaller than H. habilis, and similar to the stature of the Australopithecines, so it's likely they were a small species to begin with.'

But we are no closer to understanding why the island people, who lived on Flores for more than one million years, suddenly died out.

'At this stage, we simply don't know when H. floresiensis died out,' said Dr Argue.

'Until we can get a handle on this, we are not in a position to work out why it became extinct.

'In summary – we don't know when it became extinct, nor what caused this.'