Bucks Mascot Roasts Raptors with Series of Jokes Before Game 4
Bucks Mascot Roasts Raptors with Series of Jokes Before Game 4
The Milwaukee Bucks' Snapchat...😂😂😂 https://t.co/FYrbq3xZOZ The Milwaukee Bucks are not hosting the Toronto Raptors graciously. For the second straight game, they introduced Toronto's starting lineup with the theme song: A photo posted by Sports Videos (@ houseofhighlights ) Milwaukee's mascot, Bango, extended the ribbing with a string of jokes posted on the team's Snapchat account. "What do the Toronto Raptors and possums have in common?" the first setup sign asked, per ProCity Hoops. "Both play dead at home and get killed on the road." Courtesy of KALB's Mike Cianciolo, Bango also questioned the Raptors' ability to play a full 48 minutes: Here's the last Raptors punchline from @BucksBango on the Bucks Snapchat. #FearTheDeer #ShowNoMercy https://t.co/yvlB92zx0I ESPN Stats & Info had quantified those road troubles after Toronto's Game 3 loss at Milwaukee: Raptors: 6-27 all-time on road in playoffs, 2nd worst win pct among active franchises (Pelicans) Before you say the Bucks should "act like they've been there before," consider they haven't won a playoff series since 2001. Giannis Antetokounmpo was six years old at the time. Milwaukee entered Saturday's Game 4 up 2-1 in the series. [Twitter, Instagram]

The Milwaukee Bucks are not hosting the Toronto Raptors graciously.

For the second straight game, they introduced Toronto's starting lineup with the Barney theme song:

Milwaukee's mascot, Bango, extended the ribbing with a string of jokes posted on the team's Snapchat account.

"What do the Toronto Raptors and possums have in common?" the first setup sign asked, per ProCity Hoops. "Both play dead at home and get killed on the road."

Courtesy of KALB's Mike Cianciolo, Bango also questioned the Raptors' ability to play a full 48 minutes:





ESPN Stats & Info had quantified those road troubles after Toronto's Game 3 loss at Milwaukee:

Before you say the Bucks should "act like they've been there before," consider they haven't won a playoff series since 2001. Giannis Antetokounmpo was six years old at the time.

Milwaukee entered Saturday's Game 4 up 2-1 in the series.

[Twitter, Instagram]