Donald Trump: How do Americans rate the President 100 days in?



Donald Trump: How do Americans rate the President 100 days in?

Posted

It has been a volatile first 100 days in America under Donald Trump.

We have seen White House infighting, leaks and sackings, suspicion over Russian influence, failed healthcare reform, stalled immigration orders, slashed bureaucratic budgets, backpedalled environmental policy, and mixed messaging.

Military spending has been upgraded, foreign policy has been inconsistent but seemingly toughened, free trade has been wound back, and a new Supreme Court Justice has been appointed.

The President's primary domestic focus has been on jobs and the economy under the banner of "America First".

So, how do Americans judge the President's performance in his first 100 days?

Here is what people in Mr Trump's hometown, New York City, said:

Andrea Sikorksi, real estate broker

Andrea Sikorski is a New York real estate agent who supports Mr Trump.

She is also a member of the LGBTQI community.

Ms Sikorksi supports Mr Trump because of his pro-business policies and tough stance on law and order.

"What I personally like is how he's invited a lot of American companies into the White House to try and negotiate how we can bring back jobs to America," she said.

"First 100 Days in office — I feel like it's definitely put a lot of fear in America. Especially the far left. I feel that they are trying to do whatever they can to bring Trump down."

Monica Sibri, undocumented American

Monica Sibri is a 25-year-old undocumented immigrant from Ecuador.

She is part of a mixed status family.

Because New York is a sanctuary city, she has been able to get an education and now works in migrant advocacy.

While she and her parents and sisters are undocumented and have no path to citizenship, she has a three-year-old brother who was born in America and is a US citizen.

Monica fears she and her family will be deported under Mr Trump's immigration policy, leaving her brother alone.

"We are not only fearful for our families and communities but fearful for the future of this country," she said.

"America no longer stands for what it used to be, which was a sense of community building, appreciating diversity and bringing communities together.

"All we see today is fear, people scared and uncertainly about what will this America look like in the future for all of us."

David Hani Bazargan, Iranian-American immigration lawyer

David Hani Bazargan is an Iranian American.

Born and raised as a Muslim in Tehran, he came to America 19 years ago. Mr Bazargan is no longer a practising Muslim.

He is an immigration lawyer who has been representing people affected by Mr Trump's executive orders limiting travel for people from a number of Muslim majority countries. The orders are currently frozen due to court action.

Mr Bazargan thinks the executive orders are illogical because they wrongly target people and countries under the guise of fighting terrorism, while excluding other terrorist hotspots.

"My personal experience — since Donald Trump became the president, there are so many people, so many immigrants that have unreasonably and unduly been hurt," he said.

"I believe all these immigrant laws and all these immigration petitions that came after Donald Trump became the President, they should be withdrawn."

Kenneth Shelton Jr, Black Lives Matter activist

Kenneth Shelton Jr is a 21-year-old African-American who was born and raised in Queens.

He is part of the Black Lives Matter Movement of Greater New York and does community and activist work with a range of social justice organisations.

He is opposed to Mr Trump's presidency and expects it will spark an opposition movement that will mobilise against his policies.

"Donald Trump's first 100 days symbolises and represents what people of colour already knew — that this country wasn't built for them, it was built on the backs of them … it just shows people of colour all along that Donald Trump personifies what America is and always has been — that's a racist institution," he said.

"But also he's also given us a lot of hope in the first 100 days that we're going to mobilise and we're going to build power within our own communities and nationally against him."

Michael Rendino, bar owner

Michael Rendino manages a bar near Yankee Stadium in The Bronx, and is the chairman of the local branch of the Republican Party.

He is also a former firefighter and was injured during the September 11 terrorist attacks on the Twin Towers in New York.

Michael supports Mr Trump because he brings something new to politics.

"We've had some issues but he's trying to drain the swamp that is Washington DC and that will not come without casualties. Unfortunately, returning the power to the people and from the Washington DC conglomerate is going to be hard work and it's going to take some time, but I'm confident he can do it," he said.

"We've seen one of the best job numbers in a long time and confident as long as he gets the economy going the American people will support him and he'll have a success four to eight years in office."

Topics: federal-government, government-and-politics, world-politics, immigration, community-and-society, united-states