North Korea WILL launch a nuclear strike if Trump attacks
North Korea WILL launch a nuclear strike if Trump attacks


North Korea has issued statement threatening 'nuclear war' against the United States if it is attacked.

'The DPRK will react to a total war with an all-out war, a nuclear war with nuclear strikes of its own and surely win a victory in the death-defying struggle against the US imperialists,' a Foreign Ministry spokesman wrote Saturday.

This message, which was one of three delivered Saturday, echoed the message delivered by a top official at the massive 'Day of the Sun' military parade in Pyongyang earlier this month.

North Korea has issued statement threatening 'nuclear war' against the United States if it is attacked

A Foreign Ministry spokesman accused mounting tensions in the region on the Trump administration and said that they would start nuclear war if they are attacked. Pictured is a submarine=-launched ballistic missile displayed during a 'Day of the Sun' military parade

The spokesman accused the United States and the Trump administration of the spike in tensions in recent months, saying that officials have been 'spouting a load of rubbish,' and are 'seeking to bring nuclear aircraft carrier strike groups one after another to the waters of the Korean peninsula,' reported CBS News.

His message appears to refer directly to the impending arrival of the USS Carl Vinson carrier group to the region.

North Korea appears to have resumed work at its nuclear test site in Punggye-ri, in the northeastern part of the country, according to the New York Times.

In photos dating from Wednesday analysts noted that North Korea appears to be preparing for what would be its sixth nuclear test

Satellite photos posted by two international studies analysts show that the country appears to be going about work as usual after a bizarre series of volleyball matches were held there. The photos of volleyball matches could have been a form of deception

Satellite photos posted by two international studies analysts show that the country appears to be going about work as usual after a bizarre series of volleyball matches were held there.

In a previous study of satellite photos, taken last Sunday, analysts noted several times that there were teams individuals playing volleyball, which could have been a form of deception, or could have been a leisurely past time activity on a day off.

However, in photos dating from Wednesday, the analysts noted that North Korea appears to be preparing for what would be its sixth nuclear test.

This would come just as the country plans to celebrate another major holiday on Tuesday 85th anniversary of the founding of the Korean People's Army, an occasion they normally use to show off military advances, reported the New York Times.

Another nuclear test would come just as the country plans to celebrate a holiday celebrating the anniversary of the Korean People's Army, and occasion they normally use to show off military advances. Pictured are soldiers on the last major North Korean holiday, the 'Day of the Sun'

If the country were to test another nuclear device, it would be a major show of defiance by their leader after repeated warnings by the American President. Pictured is a North Korean missile displayed during the 'Day of the Sun' parade

If the country were to test another nuclear device, it would be a major show of defiance by their leader after repeated warnings by the American President.

The increased tension in the region and with the United States will be a hot topic in Washington on Monday with the visit of US Ambassador Nikki Haley, who will be escorting Security Council members to the capital for a series of meetings with congress and in the White House, according to CBS.

At the White House the members of the Security council will have a photo-op and lunch with Trump, giving UN diplomats an unusually high level of access to the new President.

The increased tension in the region and with the United States will be a hot topic in Washington on Monday with the visit of US Ambassador Nikki Haley (pictured)

This statement from North Korean officials comes about a week after a failed missile test on the anniversary of the birth of King Il Sung, the country's late founder. Pictured is the military parade from the celebration of his birth

This statement from North Korean officials comes about a week after a failed missile test on the anniversary of the birth of King Il Sung, the country's late founder.

US officials said that the missile, which was meant to be a show of force from the current leader, exploded immediately after liftoff.

However, that failure did not dial back the regime's intense rhetoric, and they are hoping that this most recent statement, in which the spokesman refers to North Korea as a 'peace-loving socialist state' will send a message of strength.

'The DPRK is a nuclear power capable of countering any option and means of the US and will not avoid any options made by it. The world will clearly witness this time the fact that gone are the days never to return when the US forced is will upon other countries,' the statement read.

The Foreign Ministry spokesman says that North Korea 'neither fears war nor wants to avoid it,' and claims that the country's nuclear program is defensive in its nature.

The spokesman issued two other memos on Saturday, one that was titled 'Are You Good at Dancing to the Tune of Others,' that backhandedly takes aim at China.

Vice President Mike Pence recently visited South Korea (pictured), and declared that 'the era of strategic patience is over'

This new show of force from North Korea comes in response to Vice President Pence's visit to South Korea (pictured), and increased force shown by the two allied countries

The third is meant for Australia, and warms the country that it has 'better think twice' about the 'rubbish' statements of its foreign minister, reported CBS.

This new show of force comes in response to those shown by the United States and its ally South Korea last week.

Vice President Mike Pence recently visited the country, and declared that 'the era of strategic patience is over'.

Tens of thousands of US troops are already stationed in South Korea, and ambassador Haley told reporters Tuesday that 'we are not trying to pick a fight, so don't try and give us one,' reported CBS.

On Thursday the UN Security Council issued a strongly worded statement, condemning North Korea's latest missile test (which took place just hours after the pictured parade ended), and calling for a 'dialogue' with Pyongyang at the request of Russia

Since 2006, North Korea has worked to develop a small nuclear warhead and an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) that would be capable of reaching targets as far as the United States

Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said on Wednesday that the President is reviewing whether or not to add North Korea to the US list of state sponsored terrorism.

On Thursday the UN Security Council issued a strongly worded statement, condemning North Korea's latest missile test, and calling for a 'dialogue' with Pyongyang at the request of Russia.

The body said that these nuclear activities are 'greatly increasing tension in the region and beyond,' and demanded an immediate end with a threat to take 'further significant measures'.

Since 2006, North Korea has worked to develop a small nuclear warhead and an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) that would be capable of reaching targets as far as the United States.