Chance the Rapper Recruits King Louie and DJ Oreo for His Upcoming Be Encouraged Tour
Chance the Rapper Recruits King Louie and DJ Oreo for His Upcoming Be Encouraged Tour
Just days before Chance the Rapper kicks off his spring tour in Southern California , the Chicago rapper has finally revealed which acts will accompany him. Fellow Chicagoans King Louie and DJ Oreo will hit the road for the 43-stop Be Encouraged tour. Chance made the announcement on social media this week, adding he had recovered tickets purchased by scalpers for the first week’s shows. DJ Oreo toured with Chance right after the release of 2013’s , and went on to DJ for the likes of Vic Mensa and Lil Yacht y . King Louie is also a well-known Chano collaborator, working with him on the Donnie Trumpet “Familiar” track, as well as making a cameo in the “No Problem” music video. Louie also appeared on “New Chevy” and “Favorite Drink,” tracks by Chance’s little brother Taylor Bennett. Be Encouraged Tour w King Louie & DJ Oreo next week. Got tix back from scalpers on first week of shows. AVAIL NOW @ ChanceRaps.com A post shared by Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) on Apr 21, 2017 at 1:33pm PDT The Be Encouraged tour will begin this Monday in San Diego, and will include stops in Dallas, Detroit, Toronto, NYC, and Miami, before wrapping up on Oct. 20 in Phoenix. Tickets are available now at ChanceRaps.com .

Just days before Chance the Rapper kicks off his spring tour in Southern California, the Chicago rapper has finally revealed which acts will accompany him. Fellow Chicagoans King Louie and DJ Oreo will hit the road for the 43-stop Be Encouraged tour.

Chance made the announcement on social media this week, adding he had recovered tickets purchased by scalpers for the first week’s shows.

DJ Oreo toured with Chance right after the release of 2013’s Acid Rap, and went on to DJ for the likes of Vic Mensa and Lil Yachty. King Louie is also a well-known Chano collaborator, working with him on the Donnie Trumpet “Familiar” track, as well as making a cameo in the “No Problem” music video. Louie also appeared on “New Chevy” and “Favorite Drink,” tracks by Chance’s little brother Taylor Bennett.

Be Encouraged Tour w King Louie & DJ Oreo next week. Got tix back from scalpers on first week of shows. AVAIL NOW @ ChanceRaps.com A post shared by Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) on Apr 21, 2017 at 1:33pm PDT

The Be Encouraged tour will begin this Monday in San Diego, and will include stops in Dallas, Detroit, Toronto, NYC, and Miami, before wrapping up on Oct. 20 in Phoenix. Tickets are available now at ChanceRaps.com.