Karlie Kloss Schools Desiigner on Climate Change for Bill Nye's New Show on Netflix
Karlie Kloss Schools Desiigner on Climate Change for Bill Nye's New Show on Netflix
Climate change is a problem that will impact us all, whether you're a sushi-eating fiend or just trying to drink a cup of coffee to get your morning started. That's the premise for a sketch from an episode of Bill Nye's new Netflix show, which shows just how many things can be lost if climate change isn't taken seriously. To get the point across, Nye employed model Karlie Kloss to show Desiigner how many delicious things could disappear if the world doesn't make climate science a priority. As the "Panda" rapper goes to eat a number of tasty treats, Kloss swoops in and tells him how close we are to losing access to things like chocolate, fish, and yes, even pandas. Desiigner crossover to acting if he ever has a desire to do so. It's purposefully absurd—models probably aren't going to swoop in and present you with bags of black jelly beans anytime soon—but it's a concise illustration of the far-reaching impact of climate change. The broader discussion of climate change tends to center around temperatures, icebergs, and more abstract concepts, so providing a few concrete examples helps get the point across. released its first season on Netflix on April 21, and features more guest appearances from Zach Braff, Steve Aoki, and more. If you miss getting a regular does of science goodies from Nye back in your elementary school days, this will be right up your alley.

Climate change is a problem that will impact us all, whether you're a sushi-eating fiend or just trying to drink a cup of coffee to get your morning started. That's the premise for a sketch from an episode of Bill Nye's new Netflix show, Bill Nye Saves The World, which shows just how many things can be lost if climate change isn't taken seriously.

To get the point across, Nye employed model Karlie Kloss to show Desiigner how many delicious things could disappear if the world doesn't make climate science a priority. As the "Panda" rapper goes to eat a number of tasty treats, Kloss swoops in and tells him how close we are to losing access to things like chocolate, fish, and yes, even pandas. Desiigner is a good sport throughout the whole thing, and his low-key demeanor might help him crossover to acting if he ever has a desire to do so.

It's purposefully absurd—models probably aren't going to swoop in and present you with bags of black jelly beans anytime soon—but it's a concise illustration of the far-reaching impact of climate change. The broader discussion of climate change tends to center around temperatures, icebergs, and more abstract concepts, so providing a few concrete examples helps get the point across.

Bill Nye Saves The World released its first season on Netflix on April 21, and features more guest appearances from Zach Braff, Steve Aoki, and more. If you miss getting a regular does of science goodies from Nye back in your elementary school days, this will be right up your alley.