Chez Panisse Meyer Lemon Meringue Pie Recipe

Meyer Lemon Tart By Amanda Hesser 1 hour Grapefruit-and-Meyer-Lemon Marmalade By Amanda Hesser 2 hours, plus cooling time easy Braised Fennel With Meyer Lemon and Parmesan By Jill Santopietro 30 minutes easy Sautéed Chicken With Meyer Lemon By Melissa Clark About 30 minutes Meyer Lemon and Blood Orange Marmalade By Melissa Clark 1 hour healthy Creamy Meyer Lemon Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes Trending Faux Babbo Ravioli By Sam Sifton 1 hour 20 minutes Trending Real Sour Cream Onion Dip By Mark Bittman 15 minutes Trending Seared Halibut With Anchovies, Capers And Garlic By Mark Bittman 20 minutes Trending Fast Vietnamese Caramel Bluefish By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Pasta Primavera with Asparagus and Peas By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Baked Egg With Prosciutto and Tomato By Mark Bittman 15 minutes Danny Ghitis for The New York Times This adaptation of Alice Waters’s lemon meringue pie came to the Times in a 1987 article in the Sunday magazine. It takes a little time, but your efforts will be rewarded with a spectacular centerpiece dessert to be proud of: a cloud of toasted meringue atop a pool of buttery and bright lemon curd in a light and flaky crust. If you can't find Meyer lemons, regular supermarket lemons will make a worthy substitute.   Food; American Pie .  Vegetarian , Nut Free , Egg , Meyer Lemon , Pie Shell  Ingredients    The filling:                   The meringue:             Preparation Prepare the shell. Roll the pastry into a 12-inch circle, 1/8-inch thick, and fit gently into the pan. Tri the edge a half-inch beyond the rim, fold under and crimp or pinch to make a decorative edge. Prick the bottom with a fork. Freeze the shell for 20 to 30 minutes. Prepare the filling. Grate the zest from the lemons into a small, noncorrodable bowl. Strain in the lemon juice, then press through as much lemon pulp as possible. In a heavy, noncorrodable saucepan, beat the eggs, yolks and sugar until just mixed. Stir in the lemon juice and pulp, then the six tablespoons of butter. Cook, stirring constantly, over low to medium heat, until the mixture comes together and thickens enough to coat a spoon. Remove from heat, allow to stand five minutes, then whisk briefly to smooth. Set aside. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Line the frozen shell with aluminum foil, weight with beans or pie weights and bake for 20 minutes, or until set and dry looking. Remove the weights and foil, turn the heat down to 350 and continue baking until shell is golden brown, about 12 to 15 minutes. Set aside and allow to cool slightly, but leave the oven on. Spread the prepared filling in the shell and bake for 10 to 15 minutes or until the filling is just set. Remove pie and turn oven to 375. Make the meringue. Beat the egg whites until frothy, add the cream of tartar and continue beating until rounded peaks form. Beat in sugar and vanilla. Spread the meringue over the filling, making sure it meets the edges of the crust to make a seal. Swirl in a design with a knife or spatula and bake for about 10 minutes, or until the meringue is lightly browned. Allow to cool completely, from one to two hours, but do not refrigerate. Meyer Lemon Tart By Amanda Hesser 1 hour Grapefruit-and-Meyer-Lemon Marmalade By Amanda Hesser 2 hours, plus cooling time Braised Fennel With Meyer Lemon and Parmesan By Jill Santopietro 30 minutes Sautéed Chicken With Meyer Lemon By Melissa Clark About 30 minutes Chocolate Pecan Pie By Melissa Clark Double Apple Pie By Melissa Clark Brandied Pumpkin Pie By Melissa Clark Butter Pie By The New York Times 2 hours Cooking Guide How to Make Pasta By Samin Nosrat Cooking Guide How to Make Burgers By Sam Sifton Cooking Guide How to Grill By Sam Sifton Cooking Guide How to Make Pizza By Sam Sifton

Let's Get Started

Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below.

Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below.