Cop In Madhya Pradesh Gets Thrashed Brutally For Issuing A Fine To A BJP Leader's Relatives
Cop In Madhya Pradesh Gets Thrashed Brutally For Issuing A Fine To A BJP Leader's Relatives
Cop In Madhya Pradesh Gets Thrashed Brutally For Issuing A Fine To A BJP Leader's Relatives Back in the day, when Orwell wrote the legendary Animal Farm, little did he know that his prediction will come true and the consequences will be too dangerous for us all. Today, close to 7 decades after his death, we stand staring at a scenario where everyone's equal, but some people are more equal than others. The most recent case in point is the brutal thrashing of a cop in Madhya Pradesh. His crime was that he thought of issuing a fine to a politician's relatives. The constable was thrown on the ground, punched, kicked and repeatedly beaten by a group of 4-5 men, as spectators watched. The incident happened yesterday, in Guna, about 200 kilometres from Bhopal. The savage attack, which was captured on cell phone cameras, was led by the family members of a local BJP leader. The girls immediately called their family members and they arrived at the spot within minutes of the call. The gang included BJP leader's husband, Rajiv Raghuvanshi and some of his supporters. A scuffle broke out in which constable Ashutosh Tiwari was pushed to the ground and roughed up. As another policeman tries to intervene, Mr Raghuvanshi is seen in a video threatening him. As of now, the police has filed two cases - obstructing a government officer from doing his duty and another of beating up a government officer on duty.

Back in the day, when Orwell wrote the legendary Animal Farm, little did he know that his prediction will come true and the consequences will be too dangerous for us all.

Today, close to 7 decades after his death, we stand staring at a scenario where everyone's equal, but some people are more equal than others.

The most recent case in point is the brutal thrashing of a cop in Madhya Pradesh. His crime was that he thought of issuing a fine to a politician's relatives.

Amazing Viral Videos

The constable was thrown on the ground, punched, kicked and repeatedly beaten by a group of 4-5 men, as spectators watched.

The incident happened yesterday, in Guna, about 200 kilometres from Bhopal. The savage attack, which was captured on cell phone cameras, was led by the family members of a local BJP leader.

The accused politician here is Shobhna Raghuvanshi, the BJP block president and three girls belonging to her family. As these girls violated a traffic rule, the cop decided to fine them, however, it turned out to be an absolute nightmare for him instead.

The girls immediately called their family members and they arrived at the spot within minutes of the call. The gang included BJP leader's husband, Rajiv Raghuvanshi and some of his supporters.



A scuffle broke out in which constable Ashutosh Tiwari was pushed to the ground and roughed up. As another policeman tries to intervene, Mr Raghuvanshi is seen in a video threatening him.

As of now, the police has filed two cases - obstructing a government officer from doing his duty and another of beating up a government officer on duty.

Don't Miss 99.1 K SHARES 64 K SHARES 25.2 K SHARES