On The 100th Episode Of His Show, Kapil Sharma Thanked His Entire Team Including Those Who Weren’t There
On His Show's 100th Episode, Kapil Sharma Thanked His Entire Team Including Those Not Present
On The 100th Episode Of His Show, Kapil Sharma Thanked His Entire Team Including Those Who Weren’t There

On the 100th episode of his show, Kapil Sharma took a minute to thank his entire team for their contribution. Not only did he thank those present on the sets then, but also thanked those weren’t a part of the show.

There was a time when people had applauded Kapil Sharma and his team for staying intact, even when they had to take their show to another channel. However, there came a time when a feud taking place on the flight dispersed them grabbing headlines.

We all know that Sunil Grover, Ali Asgar and Chandan Prabhakar chose to boycott the show after the incident took place. But Kapil hasn’t forgotten their contribution to show. On the century episode of The Kapil Sharma Show, he thanked his team and crew involved, and took a special mention of those who weren’t there. However, he didn’t take anyone’s name.

Here’s what he said:

“Today is our 100th episode. I would like to thank our audience, all the celebrities who have come to our show—be it from sports or any other industry. I would like to thank our on-stage team or backstage team and all those people who are with us today, and those who are not with us.”

Sidhu also added that the show was never a one man show, and requested everyone involved to keep it together.

“I look at this show as destiny. It is like a bouquet crafted by God. It’s not possible for just one person to make and successful run such a big show for so many episodes. I pray and request everyone to not let this bouquet fall apart, and keep it united. Yeh guldasta sirf mera ya tera nahi hai, yeh pure desh ka guldasta hai, isse bikharne mat do.”

Watch the video below:

The 100th episode of the show will seek the presence of Women’s cricket team members, including Veda Krishnamurthy, Mithali Raj, Harmanpreet Kaur and Jhulam Goswami.

Don't Miss 474 SHARES 10.3 K SHARES 52.5 K SHARES 13.8 K SHARES 17.8 K SHARES