Meet Zamzam Farah: Olympian, refugee and the most extraordinary athlete at this year's London Marathon
Meet Zamzam Farah: Olympian, refugee and the most extraordinary athlete at this year's London Marathon
ess than a year after running round the Olympic Stadium in August 2012, the cheers of 80,000 spectators ringing in her ears, the Somalian 400 metres runner Zamzam Farah was living on the streets of London. Unable to return to her home country because of threats to her life, barely able to speak the language, hungry, cold and terrified, at just 21 years old she was adrift in the capital. This was not the Olympic legacy we had imagined. “I was so scared,” she says, the tears falling as she remembers the gathering panic of being alone and lost in a foreign city. “So, so scared.” Four years on and things are looking altogether brighter. Thanks to the intervention of a small, fleet-footed organisation called the Running Charity, she is now a legal resident in Britain, has a job and a roof over her head. And on Sunday she is joining 36,000 others on the start line of the London Marathon. “I feel...

Less than a year after running round the Olympic Stadium in August 2012, the cheers of 80,000 spectators ringing in her ears, the Somalian 400 metres runner Zamzam Farah was living on the streets of London. Unable to return to her home country because of threats to her life, barely able to speak the language, hungry, cold and terrified, at just 21 years old she was adrift in the capital. This was not the Olympic legacy we had imagined.

“I was so scared,” she says, the tears falling as she remembers the gathering panic of being alone and lost in a foreign city. “So, so scared.”

Four years on and things are looking altogether brighter. Thanks to the intervention of a small, fleet-footed organisation called the Running Charity, she is now a legal resident in Britain, has a job and a roof over her head. And on Sunday she is joining 36,000 others on the start line of the London Marathon.

“I feel...