The woman famous for explaining 'why women still can't have it' perfectly explains how anyone's priorities can change
The woman famous for explaining 'why women still can't have it' perfectly explains how anyone's priorities can change


Anne-Marie Slaughter once famously explained 'why women still can't have it'. In her interview with Business Insider, she explains how anyone's priorities can change over time. Following is a transcript of the video.

I mean the title to be, "Why women can't have it all... yet." Right? I was never saying that women can't do exactly what men can do. I was just saying that we got a long way to go, but no, the shock to me was that when the chips were down and our son really needed both of us there, I would have told you, "But wait a minute, but this is my dream job and my husband was there and he'd be fine" and - but when the chips were down, it was clear to me that no matter how ambitious I was, and I wanted that job and I wanted the next one, this was the right thing to do. And once I realized that, it's not that I think every women should make my choice or every man.



Man and woman make different choices. But I came to understand all those women who are really forced because their work won't let them do both or because they have a divorce or because of a child with special needs or a husband who just won't do it or is earning much more money. They feel like somebody's gotta be there and now I really respect that choice. Well, what I tell people is, when you are 25, remember who you were at 15. Right? You're really different. Now think, "Okay I changed that much between 15 and 25. I'm going to change that much again between 25 and 35." So at 25, I wasn't thinking about kids. I mean they were in some distant land. My 30s were a distant land. At 35, all I could think about was "how do I have a baby?" Right? And then 35 to 45, so what I tell people is, you already have changed that much. Assume that you can not know right now who you will be 10 years from now. Â