Thanks To This Adorable Therapy Donkey, A Little Girl Overcame Her Speech Disorder
Thanks To This Adorable Therapy Donkey, A Little Girl Overcame Her Speech Disorder
Thanks To This Adorable Therapy Donkey, A Little Girl Overcame Her Speech Disorder Apart from being cute and adorable, most animals have an incredible ability, that of healing. A growing body of scientific research is proving that animals have the power to help humans overcome diseases or disability. Case in point: A therapy donkey, named Shocks, helped a little girl overcome her speaking obstacles. Shocks is rescue donkey, who was found in a dire condition at a farm in Ireland. His neck was lacerated and was abused by people in farm. But things turned around, when The Donkey Sanctuary in Birmingham adopted him and treated his wounds. Shocks was then trained to be a therapy donkey for disabled children. Back in 2013, 2-year-old Amber was Shock's first patient. Amber and her twin were born prematurely and at 26 weeks and moments after her birth she was rushed for operation to help her breath. Unfortunately, the operation saved her life, but rendered Amber completely mute. Amber also suffered from Cerebral Palsy which made things more complicated. Her parents were desperately looking for help. When Amber met Shocks, they clicked almost instantly. Shocks lowered his head and let Amber wrap her arms around his neck. “It was to do with confidence and trust. They trusted each other, no words needed to be said, they just got on with it," the Express UK quoted Amber's mother. Shocks encouraged Amber to be active, and helped her overcome her disability. Her first words were for Shocks, when she said, "I love you"!

Apart from being cute and adorable, most animals have an incredible ability, that of healing. A growing body of scientific research is proving that animals have the power to help humans overcome diseases or disability.

Case in point: A therapy donkey, named Shocks, helped a little girl overcome her speaking obstacles.

Facebook/Amber

Shocks is rescue donkey, who was found in a dire condition at a farm in Ireland. His neck was lacerated and was abused by people in farm.

But things turned around, when The Donkey Sanctuary in Birmingham adopted him and treated his wounds. Shocks was then trained to be a therapy donkey for disabled children.

Facebook/Amber

Back in 2013, 2-year-old Amber was Shock's first patient.

Amber and her twin were born prematurely and at 26 weeks and moments after her birth she was rushed for operation to help her breath. Unfortunately, the operation saved her life, but rendered Amber completely mute.

Facebook/Amber

Amber also suffered from Cerebral Palsy which made things more complicated. Her parents were desperately looking for help.

When Amber met Shocks, they clicked almost instantly. Shocks lowered his head and let Amber wrap her arms around his neck.

Facebook/Amber

“It was to do with confidence and trust. They trusted each other, no words needed to be said, they just got on with it," the Express UK quoted Amber's mother.

Shocks encouraged Amber to be active, and helped her overcome her disability. Her first words were for Shocks, when she said, "I love you"!

Don't Miss 540 SHARES 99 K SHARES 62.5 K SHARES 56.8 K SHARES 21.1 K SHARES

Her parents were so overwhelmed that they even wrote a book about the entire incident.

How adorable is that!