Houston Rockets guard Patrick Beverley fined $25,000 by NBA for fan altercation
Rockets' Beverley fined $25K for fan incident
Rockets' Beverley fined $25K for fan incident Old dog, new tricks: Celtics' Gerald Green an unexpected playoff starter Draymond Green has mastered the 'art' of trash talking Stop! How elite NBA defenders get job done BPI playoff chances for playoff teams How special were NBA superstars this season? Ramona Shelburne reports the latest on Patrick Beverley, who has been fined $25,000 by the NBA for an incident with a fan during the Rockets' Game 3 loss to the Thunder. (0:51) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Senior writer for ESPN.com Spent seven years at the Los Angeles Daily News Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment The NBA has fined Houston Rockets guard Patrick Beverley $25,000 over his interaction with a fan during Game 3 of the Western Conference playoffs Friday night, NBA executive vice president of basketball operations Kiki VanDeWeghe announced Sunday. In the first half, Beverley got knocked down after attempting a layup and landed at a fan's feet. The fan was identified as Stuart Scaramucci, son of Oklahoma City Thunder minority owner Jay Scaramucci. Beverley got up and immediately started to complain about Scaramucci. He pointed at Scaramucci as referee Scott Foster and several Rockets went to help him up. After the game, Beverley approached Scaramucci, who was sitting behind the basket, and they got into a heated discussion. Rockets forward Sam Dekker went to pull Beverley away, and he left the court as fans yelled at him. Whenever an incident occurs, the league reviews footage from the arena and television broadcasts to determine if the player went into the stands before determining if any discipline is appropriate, sources told ESPN. Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Sponsored Headlines

Ramona Shelburne reports the latest on Patrick Beverley, who has been fined $25,000 by the NBA for an incident with a fan during the Rockets' Game 3 loss to the Thunder. (0:51)

The NBA has fined Houston Rockets guard Patrick Beverley $25,000 over his interaction with a fan during Game 3 of the Western Conference playoffs Friday night, NBA executive vice president of basketball operations Kiki VanDeWeghe announced Sunday.

In the first half, Beverley got knocked down after attempting a layup and landed at a fan's feet. The fan was identified as Stuart Scaramucci, son of Oklahoma City Thunder minority owner Jay Scaramucci. Beverley got up and immediately started to complain about Scaramucci.

He pointed at Scaramucci as referee Scott Foster and several Rockets went to help him up. After the game, Beverley approached Scaramucci, who was sitting behind the basket, and they got into a heated discussion.

Rockets forward Sam Dekker went to pull Beverley away, and he left the court as fans yelled at him.

Whenever an incident occurs, the league reviews footage from the arena and television broadcasts to determine if the player went into the stands before determining if any discipline is appropriate, sources told ESPN.

Information from ESPN's Calvin Watkins was used in this report.