5 Contenders in the French Election
5 Contenders in the French Election
Mr. Macron is a strong defender of the EU. He plans to reduce charges for employers and allow people who quit their job to receive unemployment benefits. He has pledged to invest €50 billion ($53.6 billion) in green energy, new technologies and the modernization of urban space. At 39, the former Rothschild investment banker has never run for office. But the consensus-seeking politician has succeeded in thrusting himself among the lead contenders for the presidential job by rallying traditional supporters of the Socialist and conservative parties. Ipsos Sopra-Steria poll projects 23%.            The National Front leader is offering French people a break from the traditional order by reversing decades of EU integration. To restore France’s sovereignty on everything from borders to currency, she has pledged to orchestrate a “patriotic revolution,” with referendums on leaving the EU and the euro. She has also promised to temporarily halt immigration and forcefully deport illegal aliens. In plotting her course to the Elysée Palace, she has attempted to clean up her party’s image as a xenophobic movement. Ipsos Sopra-Steria poll projects 22.5%.          The flag-bearer of France’s conservative camp wants to redress public finance by slashing 500,000 state-sector jobs , and shift EU diplomacy by knitting closer ties with Russia. Mr. Fillon long held pole position in opinion polls. But he has spent most of the campaign since January defending himself against accusations first made by the Canard Enchaîné satirical newspaper, and since leveled by investigative magistrates that he used public funds to provide members of his family with fake jobs. Mr. Fillon has apologized for hiring relatives but denied allegations the jobs were fake. Ipsos Sopra-Steria poll projects 19.5%.          A seasoned orator donning Mao jackets , Mr. Mélenchon has vowed to “eradicate misery and unemployment” by turning up the heat on the rich and lifting blue-collar workers. He has promised to grant French people a sixth week of paid holidays and lower the retirement age to 60 from 62. He wants more autonomy to protect French companies from foreign competitors and has threatened to pull out of the EU should other members reject his ideas for a looser bloc. Mr. Mélenchon has also proposed adhering to the little-known Bolivarian Alliance launched by Venezuela and Cuba in 2004. Ipsos Sopra-Steria poll projects 19%.          The Socialist Party candidate wants to introduce universal basic income financed by a tax on companies that replace human labor with robots. He also wants to establish a second EU parliament dedicated to represent countries sharing the euro. A former education minister in the administration of President François Hollande, Mr. Hamon has been critical of what he regarded as pro-business measures the Socialist president promoted in the second part of his five-year mandate. Yet polls suggest many leftist voters have flocked to Mr. Mélenchon, who has proposed more-radical measures. Ipsos Sopra-Steria poll projects 8%.

A seasoned orator donning Mao jackets, Mr. Mélenchon has vowed to “eradicate misery and unemployment” by turning up the heat on the rich and lifting blue-collar workers. He has promised to grant French people a sixth week of paid holidays and lower the retirement age to 60 from 62. He wants more autonomy to protect French companies from foreign competitors and has threatened to pull out of the EU should other members reject his ideas for a looser bloc. Mr. Mélenchon has also proposed adhering to the little-known Bolivarian Alliance launched by Venezuela and Cuba in 2004.

Ipsos Sopra-Steria poll projects 19%.