Arsenal 2-1 Manchester City: FA Cup semi-final – as it happened

Report from Wembley:      A rare joyous moment for Arsene Wenger in the context of this season and a win that might just give him the encouragement he needs to sign that new contract. They’re into the FA Cup final, where they’ll face Chelsea, and they’re there because they showed spirit to recover from a goal down. Nacho Monreal and Alexis Sanchez scored the goals and Arsenal were dogged enough to hold out in the end. As for Manchester City , their first season under Pep Guardiola is fizzling out. Their last chance of a trophy has gone and they face a fight to hold off Manchester United in the fight for the top four now. They’re a point above United and host them on Thursday night. Thanks for reading and emailing. Bye! Updated       Full-time: Arsenal 2-1 Manchester City That’s it! Arsenal are in the FA Cup final thanks to Alexis Sanchez’s winner!      Iheanacho’s offside. Arsenal have to hold on for one minute.      Francis Coquelin replaces Mesut Ozil.      Toure curls one wide from 20 yards. The Arsenal fans let out a relieved cheer.      Toure can’t stop giving the ball away.      Otamendi’s booked for clumping Ramsey’s heels.      Navas slips a pass through to De Bruyne, whose cross shot slithers across the face of goal. The Belgian looks anguished.      City have Arsenal pinned back at the moment, but Guardiola’s men are running out of time. “Anyone remember that first hour when this game was, pardon my French, naff?” says Matt Loten. “Me neither. These teams might not have the refinement of Chelsea or Spurs, but this has turned into a cracking watch.” It’s so flawed, though, both midfields leaving much to be desired.      All of a sudden, De Bruyne romps through the middle, Arsenal all over the shop. He tees up Delph to his left, but the slightest of blocks from Bellerin takes the midfielder’s shot into the side netting. Some City fans think it’s in. It’s not. City still have a corner here, but Iheanacho heads wide. Updated       Toure’s free-kick is straight into the wall.      In a deeper position now, De Bruyne slips a pass through to Iheanacho, who can’t take the ball with him. Arsenal survive. But it’s not long before they concede a free-kick 25 yards out. It’s to the left of the D and Toure fancies his chances.      Delph shots well wide from 25 yards. “Bellerin’s hair is a clear example of the dysfunction at Arsenal ,” says Matthew Carpenter-Arevalo.      City get the final period underway. Iheanacho has come on for the wretched Sterling, City using the fourth sub granted to them in extra-time. Updated       Kelechi Iheanacho is coming on for Raheem Sterling.      Half-time (extra-time): Arsenal 2-1 Manchester City Arsenal are 15 minutes away from another FA Cup final and I’m not sure how Manchester City get themselves out of this mess.      Danny Welbeck should wrap it up, only to head Ozil’s cross wide from close range. Xhaka was also booked for that nonsense with Delph.      : Hector Bellerin replaces Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain. Bellerin has cornrows. Okay. Updated       Craig Pawson has to sort out a melee, with Fabian Delph losing his cool after being manhandled by Xhaka. The City midfielder’s booked.      With the outside of his right foot, De Bruyne finds Sterling on the right. He tries to set up Sane, but Holding diverts it behind for a corner, which comes to nothing.      Sane’s been booked for dissent. How are City going to score without a striker on the pitch? Over to you, Fabian Delph.      GOAL! Arsenal 2-1 Manchester City (Sanchez, 101 min) Mesut Ozil dinks the free-kick to the far post. It’s nodded down and although Danny Welbeck misses his kick, Alexis Sanchez gathers the loose ball and bundles it past Bravo from close range! Arsenal lead! Updated       This looks like Arsenal’s game to win. City are increasingly underwhelming. They’ve lacked intelligence and personality. Welbeck wins a free-kick deep on the left, Kompany clumsily bringing him down. And...      Manchester City make a double change, Fabian Delph replacing Sergio Aguero and Fernando replacing Fernandinho. Kevin De Bruyne has moved up front. Updated       Ozil sends the corner to the near post from the right, but the unmarked Holding heads just over. What a miss. Fernandinho’s down, meanwhile, and Fabian Delph is going to come on. Updated       Welbeck, threatening since his introduction, robs Fernandinho, then bustles to the byline on the right. His cross is blocked. It comes to Sanchez. He settles for a corner.      Glenn Hoddle’s wondering whether Claudio Bravo will take a penalty for Manchester City .      After a hypnotic City passing move, De Bruyne tries to feed Sane, but he takes it out of play.      This is the third time I’ve been taken to extra-time this week. Arsenal get us underway. Guardiola doesn’t have many game-changing options on the bench. Kelechi Iheanacho is there. The others are defensive players. Wenger can still call upon Theo Walcott and Alex Iwobi.      Full-time: Arsenal 1-1 Manchester City We shall have extra-time.      : There will be three added minutes. “Yeah, tis a pity Chelsea and Tottenham weren’t kept apart in the semi final draw,” says Simon McMahon. “Then we might have had a final for the ages, rather than a semi final. As it is, it’s hard to see either of these sides giving the Chelsea management and players sleepless nights.”      De Bruyne’s booked for a cynical trip on Sanchez. City are a weirdly slow team without Silva. They aren’t incisive enough.      Welbeck, using his pace, gallops after a long pass down the right channel. He takes on Otamendi, beats the Argentinian slightly fortuitously, then bends a shot inches past the far post when he could have set up Ramsey or Sanchez for a tap-in. Ramsey and Sanchez are fuming. Updated       Otamendi and Fernandinho get in each other’s way and a high ball drops to Welbeck. He moves it on to Ozil, but Navas covers when he tries to find Ramsey.      Danny Welbeck replaces Olivier Giroud.      De Bruyne slides a pass to Sane on the left. The sliding Gabriel concedes a corner with an important challenge. De Bruyne lifts the corner to the far post and Fernandinho smacks a header against the bar! City have hit the woodwork again! The ball bounces back to Navas, who fires wide from 20 yards.  FA Cup   Arsenal   Manchester City

Arsenal will play Chelsea in the FA Cup final thanks to Nacho Monreal’s equaliser and Alexis Sanchez’s extra-time winner