Hash browns recalled due to 'extraneous golf ball materials'
Hash browns recalled due to 'extraneous golf ball materials'
In what might be one of the strangest reasons we've heard for a product recall, a U.S. food retailer is recalling bags of hash browns that may contain... golf balls. In a statement issued Friday from McCain Foods USA, Inc., bags of their Roundy’s Brand, 2 lb. Bag of Frozen Southern Style Hash Browns and Harris Teeter Brand, 2 lb. Bag of Frozen Southern Style Hash Browns are recalled due to the likelihood that there are pieces of crushed up golf balls mixed in with the potatoes. SEE ALSO: Are foodie millennials really fueling food waste? McCain Foods says that despite its "stringent supply standards," the golf balls "may have been inadvertently harvested with potatoes used to make this product." So far, it says, no one's reported a sports equipment-related food injury. The statement includes photos of the product packaging, should you want to double check those frozen hash browns in your freezer. And if you do have to trash your frozen potatoes, take heart: At least you didn't find a dead bat in your salad . Image:  MCCAIN FOODS USA,  INC. Image:  mccain foods usa,  inc. WATCH: Snack and game worry-free with this handy desktop mop

In what might be one of the strangest reasons we've heard for a product recall, a U.S. food retailer is recalling bags of hash browns that may contain... golf balls.

In a statement issued Friday from McCain Foods USA, Inc., bags of their Roundy’s Brand, 2 lb. Bag of Frozen Southern Style Hash Browns and Harris Teeter Brand, 2 lb. Bag of Frozen Southern Style Hash Browns are recalled due to the likelihood that there are pieces of crushed up golf balls mixed in with the potatoes.

McCain Foods says that despite its "stringent supply standards," the golf balls "may have been inadvertently harvested with potatoes used to make this product." So far, it says, no one's reported a sports equipment-related food injury.

The statement includes photos of the product packaging, should you want to double check those frozen hash browns in your freezer. And if you do have to trash your frozen potatoes, take heart: At least you didn't find a dead bat in your salad.

Image: MCCAIN FOODS USA, INC.

Image: mccain foods usa, inc.