Swingers campsite opens in southwestern France
Swingers campsite opens in southwestern France


A swingers campsite has opened its tent doors in southwestern France for holidaymakers seeking some nature-based partner swapping action.

Le Diamant Noir campsite, located in the leafy region of Dordogne, serves up a range of onsite activities including 'naughty games' and 'muscle awareness water aerobics'.

Owner Bruno Mazaferro, who set up the park with his wife Sandra, says his aim is to make swingers holidays more affordable with overnight stays at his site starting from €25.

Swingers holiday: Le Diamant Noir has opened its tent doors in southwestern France for holidaymakers seeking some nature-based partner swapping action

Day passes can also be purchased, with lone women charged €12 and single men billed €45 for some 'horizontal adventure'.

All park-goers must where coloured bracelets identifying if they are single or part of a couple.

Mr Mazaferro told The Local fr that his vacation idea has proved to be success so far.

Over Easter weekend he was fully-booked and he hopes the trend will continue into summer.

When it comes to accommodation at Le Diamant Noir, people can bring their own tents or rent a mobile home - complete with a bathroom - for a more luxury experience.

On the entertainment front, along with 'naughty games' and heart-pounding water aerobics, the campsite also hosts nightly parties where underwear is optional.

Ideal escape: Apparently Le Diamond Noir has been inundated with guests since opening (above, stock image)

Themed shindigs at Le Diamant Noir's bar include, Sexy Hawaii, Eyes Wide Shut and Leather and Latex.

People are also encouraged to get up close and personal, with allocated 'cuddle corners'.

If park guests aren't in the mood for love, there is also a boules field and mountain bike rentals.

Mr Mazaferro added that the only rules for visitors are that they are at least 21 years old and that they respect each another.

Revealing where his main clients have come from, he said: 'It's been mostly French people so far, but also people from Belgium, Holland, Switzerland... all of Europe, but not anyone from England.

'At least not yet.'

Apparently Le Diamant Noir campsite is the third of its kind in France.