These 10 Home Cutting-Edge Solutions Can Save You Thousands Of Dollars Every Year
These 10 Home Cutting-Edge Solutions Can Save You Thousands Of Dollars Every Year
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Omri Barzilay       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. Imagine a home that not only customizes itself to your exact needs, but simultaneously helps to cut down on your monthly bills. With advances in smart home technology expected to be a 770 million dollar industry by 2021 , your home can do just that with a few simple adjustments that will make for one big change in the way you budget your monthly home expenses. The experts at Blink home security have rounded up their favorite tips and smart home solutions that anyone can implement in their own home to cut down on the cost of the monthly bills we have become all too familiar with paying each month. : Programmable thermostats, like Nest Learning Termostat, Honeywell’s Lyric , WiFi thermostat or ecobee3 lite , allow you to adjust the cooling and heating of your home while you’re at work, asleep or on vacation, helping you save on your cooling and heating bills. ecobee ecobee3 lite : Instead, install a Mohu Leaf HDTV antenna - a modern-day version of the old “bunny ear” antenna which offers unlimited access to free over-the-air networks like ABC, NBC, CBS, FOX and more for a one-time fee. Not only do Mohu’s antennas save money by getting rid of cable bills, but they also cut down on energy bill costs, adding no additional energy consumption. Pair with streaming devices like Apple TV or Roku to gain access to popular on demand shows and movies like Hulu, Netflix, HBO, etc. for minimal monthly fees. Mohu Leaf Mohu Leaf If your water heater, air conditioning unit, or plumbing system gets broken, it will be very expensive to repair it. Some companies offer home warranty insurance policies covering all electrical appliances, roofing, heating, electricity and plumbing in your house for as low as $30/a month. : Gone are the days of pay phones, and your landline is likely next. For homeowners looking to cut down on unnecessary costs, but still want a backup option in addition to their smartphone, Google Voice allows users to call, text and check voice mails all from one cohesive app. Another option is the Ooma Telo Free Home Phone Service , which uses HD technology to place nationwide calls using your high-speed internet for a minimal monthly fee of $4. Ooma Telo Ooma Telo : Smart home light bulbs like those from Philips Hue or LIFX are roughly four times more energy efficient than regular bulbs, saving users more than $100 in energy costs over each bulb’s lifetime. For added affordability, check out if your state offers home energy audits , as free LED light bulbs are often provided. Philips Philips Hue Most alarm systems on the market cost hundreds of dollars to install, and require long-term contracts and hefty monthly fees. Instead, opt for a DIY self-install, affordable, wire-free and HD video monitoring system like home security, which offers two-year battery life, free cloud storage and no monthly fees. Want to take your home security to the great outdoors? Blink’s outdoor camera, Blink XT , offers the same two-year battery life, is weatherproof, IP-65 rated and IR rated for round-the-clock surveillance day or night. Blink Blink XT Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

Imagine a home that not only customizes itself to your exact needs, but simultaneously helps to cut down on your monthly bills. With advances in smart home technology expected to be a 770 million dollar industry by 2021, your home can do just that with a few simple adjustments that will make for one big change in the way you budget your monthly home expenses.

The experts at Blink home security have rounded up their favorite tips and smart home solutions that anyone can implement in their own home to cut down on the cost of the monthly bills we have become all too familiar with paying each month.

Install Smart Thermostats: Programmable thermostats, like Nest Learning Termostat, Honeywell’s Lyric, WiFi thermostat or ecobee3 lite, allow you to adjust the cooling and heating of your home while you’re at work, asleep or on vacation, helping you save on your cooling and heating bills.

ecobee

Cut Your Cable: Instead, install a Mohu Leaf HDTV antenna - a modern-day version of the old “bunny ear” antenna which offers unlimited access to free over-the-air networks like ABC, NBC, CBS, FOX and more for a one-time fee. Not only do Mohu’s antennas save money by getting rid of cable bills, but they also cut down on energy bill costs, adding no additional energy consumption. Pair with streaming devices like Apple TV or Roku to gain access to popular on demand shows and movies like Hulu, Netflix, HBO, etc. for minimal monthly fees.

Mohu Leaf

Buy a Home Warranty Coverage: If your water heater, air conditioning unit, or plumbing system gets broken, it will be very expensive to repair it. Some companies offer home warranty insurance policies covering all electrical appliances, roofing, heating, electricity and plumbing in your house for as low as $30/a month.

Say Goodbye To Your Landline: Gone are the days of pay phones, and your landline is likely next. For homeowners looking to cut down on unnecessary costs, but still want a backup option in addition to their smartphone, Google Voice allows users to call, text and check voice mails all from one cohesive app. Another option is the Ooma Telo Free Home Phone Service, which uses HD technology to place nationwide calls using your high-speed internet for a minimal monthly fee of $4.

Ooma Telo

Install LED Light bulbs: Smart home light bulbs like those from Philips Hue or LIFX are roughly four times more energy efficient than regular bulbs, saving users more than $100 in energy costs over each bulb’s lifetime. For added affordability, check out if your state offers home energy audits, as free LED light bulbs are often provided.

Philips

Ditch Expensive Alarm Systems: Most alarm systems on the market cost hundreds of dollars to install, and require long-term contracts and hefty monthly fees. Instead, opt for a DIY self-install, affordable, wire-free and HD video monitoring system like Blink home security, which offers two-year battery life, free cloud storage and no monthly fees. Want to take your home security to the great outdoors? Blink’s outdoor camera, Blink XT, offers the same two-year battery life, is weatherproof, IP-65 rated and IR rated for round-the-clock surveillance day or night.