Freshman killed during hammer throw while volunteering at Wheaton College track and field event
Freshman killed during hammer throw while volunteering at Wheaton College track and field event
Ethan Roser, a 19-year-old freshman at Wheaton College near Chicago, died Saturday after being struck by a hammer during the hammer throw event at a track and field competition at the school. Roser, a transfer student from Cincinnati, was volunteering at the competition. He was an athlete at Mason High School , where he graduated from in 2016. Safety personnel from Wheaton College and the city of Wheaton were on the scene immediately, the school said, but Roser was pronounced dead upon being transported to a hospital. "We are deeply grieved, but, because of our faith in Christ, not without hope," Wheaton College President Philip Ryken said in a statement . "We ask people to pray for Ethan's family, his friends, and our campus community.” The hammer is a metal ball that weighs 16 pounds for men’s competition and 8.8 pounds for women, CNN notes . It is not clear which size hammer hit Roser.

Ethan Roser, a freshman at Wheaton College, died Saturday after being struck by a hammer during the hammer throw at an event at the school.

Ethan Roser, a 19-year-old freshman at Wheaton College near Chicago, died Saturday after being struck by a hammer during the hammer throw event at a track and field competition at the school.

Roser, a transfer student from Cincinnati, was volunteering at the competition. He was an athlete at Mason High School, where he graduated from in 2016.

Safety personnel from Wheaton College and the city of Wheaton were on the scene immediately, the school said, but Roser was pronounced dead upon being transported to a hospital.

"We are deeply grieved, but, because of our faith in Christ, not without hope," Wheaton College President Philip Ryken said in a statement. "We ask people to pray for Ethan's family, his friends, and our campus community.”

The hammer is a metal ball that weighs 16 pounds for men’s competition and 8.8 pounds for women, CNN notes. It is not clear which size hammer hit Roser.