French election: Emmanuel Macron, Marine Le Pen through to runoff, projections show



French election: Emmanuel Macron, Marine Le Pen through to runoff, projections show

Updated

Centrist Emmanuel Macron and far-right leader Marine Le Pen are set to face each other in a May 7 runoff for the French presidency after coming first and second in Sunday's first round of voting, early projections show.

Key points: Emmanuel Macron predicted to get about 24 per cent of vote

Marine Le Pen slightly behind on 22 per cent

Other top candidates Francois Fillon and Jean-Luc Melenchon likely eliminated

In a race that was too close to call up to the last minute, Mr Macron, a pro-European Union ex-banker and economy minister who founded his own party only a year ago, was projected to get 24 per cent by the pollster Harris and 23.7 per cent by Elabe.

Ms Le Pen, leader of the anti-immigration and anti-EU National Front, was given 22 per cent by both institutes.

Harris gave both conservative candidate Francois Fillon and far-left contender Jean-Luc Melenchon 20 per cent, which would mean their elimination from the race.

Protesters angry that Ms Le Pen was advancing scuffled with police in Paris.

Crowds of young people, some from anarchist and anti-fascist groups, gathered on the Place de la Bastille in eastern Paris as results were coming in.

Riot police surrounded the area and tear gas was fired to disperse the increasingly rowdy crowd.

Fillon backs Macron as Le Pen praises 'historic result'

Former prime minister Mr Fillon conceded defeat and said he was the only person responsible for the unsuccessful bid.

"There is no other choice but to vote against the far right, I will vote for Emmanuel Macron," he told supporters.

Mr Fillon had consistently been polling third in surveys leading up to the election.

The result, if confirmed, will mean a face-off between politicians with radically contrasting economic visions for a country whose economy lags that of its neighbours and where a quarter of young people are unemployed.

French Prime Minister Bernard Cazeneuve called on voters to support Mr Macron.

Though Mr Macron, 39, is a comparative political novice who has never held elected office, opinion polls in the run-up to the ballot have consistently seen him winning the final clash against the 48-year-old Ms Le Pen.

That in turn reduces the prospect of an anti-establishment shock on the scale of Britain's vote last June to quit the EU and the election of Donald Trump as US President.

Following the early projections, Ms Le Pen celebrated the "historic result" with her supporters while vowing to defend France against "rampant globalisation".

"This result is historic. It puts on me a huge responsibility to defend the French nation, its unity, its security, its culture, its prosperity and its independence," Ms Le Pen told supporters.

"The main thing at stake in this election is the rampant globalisation that is endangering our civilisation," she added, urging French voters to shake off the shackles of an "arrogant elite".

Mr Macron favours gradual deregulation measures that will be welcomed by global financial markets, while Ms Le Pen wants to ditch the euro currency and possibly pull out of the EU.

Whatever the outcome on May 7, it will mean a redrawing of France's political landscape, which has been dominated for 60 years by mainstream groupings from the centre-left and centre-right, both of whose candidates faded.

The final outcome on May 7 will influence France's standing in Europe and the world as a nuclear-armed, veto-wielding member of the UN Security Council and founding member of the organisation that transformed itself into the European Union.

Reuters/AP

Topics: elections, government-and-politics, world-politics, france

First posted