Arrests Made in Coachella 2017 Cellphone Thefts
Arrests Made in Coachella 2017 Cellphone Thefts 
Arrests Made in Coachella 2017 Cellphone Thefts  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  Police have arrested five people in the theft of more than 40 cellphones, cash and credit cards at the Coachella music festival in the Southern California desert. Indio police say multiple festival-goers reported the thefts, and investigators identified two separate groups of suspects who had multiple phones on them Saturday (April 22). The  reports that five people were booked into Riverside County jail on theft and conspiracy charges.  Police believe two women, 35-year-old Angela Trivino of New York City and 38-year-old Viviana Hernandez of Los Angeles, were working together. They identified the other group as 29-year-old Brenda Cansino of Miami, 27-year-old Marco Leon of Los Angeles and 25-year-old Sharon Ruiz of Van Nuys. It's unclear whether they have attorneys. One man was arrested at Coachella with more than 100 cellphones in his backpack on April 14.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Festivalgoers attend day 2 of the 2017 Coachella Valley Music & Arts Festival (Weekend 2) at the Empire Polo Club on April 22, 2017 in Indio, Calif.

Police have arrested five people in the theft of more than 40 cellphones, cash and credit cards at the Coachella music festival in the Southern California desert.

Indio police say multiple festival-goers reported the thefts, and investigators identified two separate groups of suspects who had multiple phones on them Saturday (April 22).

The Desert Sun reports that five people were booked into Riverside County jail on theft and conspiracy charges.

Police believe two women, 35-year-old Angela Trivino of New York City and 38-year-old Viviana Hernandez of Los Angeles, were working together. They identified the other group as 29-year-old Brenda Cansino of Miami, 27-year-old Marco Leon of Los Angeles and 25-year-old Sharon Ruiz of Van Nuys.

It's unclear whether they have attorneys.

One man was arrested at Coachella with more than 100 cellphones in his backpack on April 14.