What to Cook This Week
What to Cook This Week
Good morning. I wrote about Jamie Oliver for the Eat column in The New York Times Magazine this week, and we published his recipe for chicken in milk to go with it. I hope you’ll read the column, then cook the recipe for dinner tonight. Jamie’s a good interview, and the chicken makes for astonishingly good eating. Make version for the dish, by the way. Don’t follow the recipe you found on Pinterest or a blog somewhere. Too many adaptations of chicken in milk, including on Jamie’s own site , omit the enormous amount of butter he calls for using at the start. (Don’t worry! You discard the bulk of it before setting the dish in the oven.) That step appears in the recipe he originally published in his 2002 cookbook, “ Happy Days With the Naked Chef .” I talked to Jamie about that. (He’s Jamie to me.) “It’s definitely better with butter, 100 percent,” he said. I told him about the adaptation on his site, just olive oil, no butter. “Strange,” he said. “I’ll find that person and cook them in milk!” Advertisement So that’s Sunday. Monday night, give David Tanis’s recipe for Spanish asparagus revuelto a spin. It’s one of those breakfast-for-dinner winners that you may come back to more than a few times this spring. (Or, you know, just make instant ramen and watch CNN. But make it perfect instant ramen if you do.) For Tuesday, let’s try David’s recipe for spicy Thai pork tenderloin salad . And follow it up the next night with Melissa’s dead simple recipe for sheet-pan chicken , a classic of the one-pan dinner oeuvre. Sign Up for the Cooking Newsletter Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Which brings us to Thursday and its alliterative tendency to tacos: perhaps in the form of these lovely blackened-fish tacos , or tacos with black beans and poblanos . Or, if you’re jammed for time, grab a roast chicken from a hot-bulb place, shred it, douse with lime and hot sauce and taco away. It’s a Thursday night, and you’ve been cooking hard for four days straight. (Unless you made the ramen one night, in which case, cook!) And then you can round out the week with a classic old Moira Hodgson recipe for grilled salmon with lemon-herb marinade . We published it in 1996 and revisited it in your name. It’s legit remarkable. I think you will like. You can find thousands of others recipes to cook this week on Cooking . Go search among them and save the ones you like to your recipe box, so you can find them easily when you’re ready to cook. You can, in fact, save recipes from anywhere on the web to your Cooking recipe box. Here’s how to do that . Put stars on the recipes when you’re done cooking and leave notes if you’ve come up with a smart ingredient substitution or cooking hack. And, if you run into a jam with the technology or your kitchen work, do write for help. We monitor cookingcare@nytimes.com as if we are Houston and you are on Apollo 13 . Now, what are you reading these days? I’m primed for Omar El Akkad’s first novel, “ American War .” (Here’s Michiko Kakutani’s review in The Times .) He’s not for everyone, but I stand strong for Randy Wayne White and his Doc Ford tales of southwest Florida: Here’s his new “ Mangrove Lightning .” (And here’s a meal to go with it: Yucatán shrimp , a dish I learned to make at White’s restaurant on Sanibel Island.) And if the great Norman Rush is writing about the great Teju Cole, “ A Burning Collection ,” for The New York Review of Books? You should read that, too, and seek out both their works, right away. Have a great week. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. COOKING    COOKING    COOKING    COOKING

Photo

Sam Sifton emails readers of Cooking five days a week to talk about food and suggest recipes. That email also appears here. To receive it in your inbox, register here.

Good morning. I wrote about Jamie Oliver for the Eat column in The New York Times Magazine this week, and we published his recipe for chicken in milk to go with it. I hope you’ll read the column, then cook the recipe for dinner tonight. Jamie’s a good interview, and the chicken makes for astonishingly good eating.

Make our version for the dish, by the way. Don’t follow the recipe you found on Pinterest or a blog somewhere. Too many adaptations of chicken in milk, including on Jamie’s own site, omit the enormous amount of butter he calls for using at the start. (Don’t worry! You discard the bulk of it before setting the dish in the oven.) That step appears in the recipe he originally published in his 2002 cookbook, “Happy Days With the Naked Chef.”

I talked to Jamie about that. (He’s Jamie to me.) “It’s definitely better with butter, 100 percent,” he said. I told him about the adaptation on his site, just olive oil, no butter. “Strange,” he said. “I’ll find that person and cook them in milk!”

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So that’s Sunday. Monday night, give David Tanis’s recipe for Spanish asparagus revuelto a spin. It’s one of those breakfast-for-dinner winners that you may come back to more than a few times this spring. (Or, you know, just make instant ramen and watch CNN. But make it perfect instant ramen if you do.)

For Tuesday, let’s try David’s recipe for spicy Thai pork tenderloin salad. And follow it up the next night with Melissa’s dead simple recipe for sheet-pan chicken, a classic of the one-pan dinner oeuvre.

Sign Up for the Cooking Newsletter Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Which brings us to Thursday and its alliterative tendency to tacos: perhaps in the form of these lovely blackened-fish tacos, or tacos with black beans and poblanos. Or, if you’re jammed for time, grab a roast chicken from a hot-bulb place, shred it, douse with lime and hot sauce and taco away. It’s a Thursday night, and you’ve been cooking hard for four days straight. (Unless you made the ramen one night, in which case, cook!)

And then you can round out the week with a classic old Moira Hodgson recipe for grilled salmon with lemon-herb marinade. We published it in 1996 and revisited it in your name. It’s legit remarkable. I think you will like.

You can find thousands of others recipes to cook this week on Cooking. Go search among them and save the ones you like to your recipe box, so you can find them easily when you’re ready to cook. You can, in fact, save recipes from anywhere on the web to your Cooking recipe box. Here’s how to do that.

Put stars on the recipes when you’re done cooking and leave notes if you’ve come up with a smart ingredient substitution or cooking hack. And, if you run into a jam with the technology or your kitchen work, do write for help. We monitor cookingcare@nytimes.com as if we are Houston and you are on Apollo 13.

Now, what are you reading these days? I’m primed for Omar El Akkad’s first novel, “American War.” (Here’s Michiko Kakutani’s review in The Times.)

He’s not for everyone, but I stand strong for Randy Wayne White and his Doc Ford tales of southwest Florida: Here’s his new “Mangrove Lightning.” (And here’s a meal to go with it: Yucatán shrimp, a dish I learned to make at White’s restaurant on Sanibel Island.)

And if the great Norman Rush is writing about the great Teju Cole, “A Burning Collection,” for The New York Review of Books? You should read that, too, and seek out both their works, right away. Have a great week.