Rajon Rondo of Chicago Bulls fined $25,000 for attempted trip
Bulls' Rondo fined $25K for attempted trip
Bulls' Rondo fined $25K for attempted trip Old dog, new tricks: Celtics' Gerald Green an unexpected playoff starter Draymond Green has mastered the 'art' of trash talking Stop! How elite NBA defenders get job done BPI playoff chances for playoff teams How special were NBA superstars this season? The Bulls took a 2-0 series lead on the road with Rajon Rondo on the court, and the Celtics got back into the series with him on the bench for Game 3. (0:56) Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Pinterest Email print comment Chicago Bulls point guard Rajon Rondo was fined $25,000 for sticking out his leg from the bench in an attempt to trip Boston Celtics forward Jae Crowder on Friday. Rondo was on the bench after suffering a right thumb fracture in Game 2. The Bulls are up 2-1 in the series; Game 4 is Sunday night, and Rondo says he will be out a "couple weeks." NBA vice president of basketball operations Kiki VanDeWeghe announced the fine. Rondo said after the game Friday that he was not trying to trip the Celtics player. "When you tear an ACL, your legs get stiff on you every once in a while," Rondo said. "I stretched my leg out. I also do that throughout the game. I guess he was so deep into our bench, it looked maybe whatever may have happened." Celtics swingman Gerald Green said Saturday that he might believe Rondo's stretching excuse. "He may have had to stretch his leg out. I don't know," Green said. "I ain't no snitch, so I don't know. That's not something I grew up being a part of. Where I'm from they know snitches get stiches. So I don't know." Facebook Twitter Facebook Messenger Email comment Sponsored Headlines

The Bulls took a 2-0 series lead on the road with Rajon Rondo on the court, and the Celtics got back into the series with him on the bench for Game 3. (0:56)

The Bulls with Rondo are much better than the Bulls without him (0:56)

Chicago Bulls point guard Rajon Rondo was fined $25,000 for sticking out his leg from the bench in an attempt to trip Boston Celtics forward Jae Crowder on Friday.

Rondo was on the bench after suffering a right thumb fracture in Game 2. The Bulls are up 2-1 in the series; Game 4 is Sunday night, and Rondo says he will be out a "couple weeks."

Rajon Rondo watched from the bench Friday night, a place he expects to be for about two weeks if the Bulls march on in the playoffs. AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast

NBA vice president of basketball operations Kiki VanDeWeghe announced the fine.

Rondo said after the game Friday that he was not trying to trip the Celtics player.

"When you tear an ACL, your legs get stiff on you every once in a while," Rondo said. "I stretched my leg out. I also do that throughout the game. I guess he was so deep into our bench, it looked maybe whatever may have happened."

Celtics swingman Gerald Green said Saturday that he might believe Rondo's stretching excuse.

"He may have had to stretch his leg out. I don't know," Green said. "I ain't no snitch, so I don't know. That's not something I grew up being a part of. Where I'm from they know snitches get stiches. So I don't know."