Kailash Kher Has A Problem With Sonakshi, KJo Lashes Out At Troller And More From Ent.
Kailash Kher Has A Problem With Sonakshi, KJo Lashes Out At Troller And More From Ent.
Kailash Kher Has A Problem With Sonakshi, KJo Lashes Out At Troller And More From Ent. 1. Here's A Deleted Scene From Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani Going Viral Which Is Totally Melting Our Hearts A beautiful scene which we feel should have made to the final cut. The video is totally melting our hearts. Take a look. 2. Sonakshi Sinha Lashes Out At Social Media Trolls With The Most Sarcastic Shayari Ever   This time is no different. The 29-year-old has lashed out at everyone who use social media to demean celebrities. But her way of conveying that, is something no one has ever attempted. She is sarcastic, she is witty and she makes a valid point.  3. Kailash Kher Has A Serious Problem With Justin Bieber And Sonakshi Sinha Performing Together   He added: "Whenever any singer from the West comes to India, we get an actor on board to match their level. We don't get singer for another singer, but actor... Event managers and producers of entertainment industry are so scared." 4. Aamir Khan Breaks His Award Show Ban, To Attend Dinanath Mangeshkar Award The actor will reportedly be attending an award ceremony  which is the prestigious Master Dinanath Mangeshkar Awards. 5. Karan Johar Hits Out At Troller For Calling Him Chhaka Filmmaker Karan Johar took the high road after a social media user called him a 'chhaka (eunuch) on Twitter, and asked him to get well soon.

A beautiful scene which we feel should have made to the final cut. The video is totally melting our hearts. Take a look.





This time is no different. The 29-year-old has lashed out at everyone who use social media to demean celebrities.

But her way of conveying that, is something no one has ever attempted. She is sarcastic, she is witty and she makes a valid point.





He added: "Whenever any singer from the West comes to India, we get an actor on board to match their level. We don't get singer for another singer, but actor... Event managers and producers of entertainment industry are so scared."















The actor will reportedly be attending an award ceremony which is the prestigious Master Dinanath Mangeshkar Awards.

Filmmaker Karan Johar took the high road after a social media user called him a 'chhaka (eunuch) on Twitter, and asked him to get well soon.

Don't Miss 1.3 K SHARES 14.2 K SHARES 18.4 K SHARES 11.9 K SHARES