Emmanuel Macron And Marine Le Pen Set To Win First Round Of France’s Presidential Election
Emmanuel Macron And Marine Le Pen Set To Win First Round Of France’s Presidential Election
The preliminary results of France’s first round of presidential elections are in, and independent candidate Emmanuel Macron is predicted to win with 23.7 percent of the vote. Far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen appears to be the runner-up with 21.7 percent and would face off against Macron in the second round if these figures hold. Far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon and conservative Republican party leader Francois Fillon were narrowly edged out of the final round, both with an estimated 19.5 percent of the vote. These numbers are early estimates released after polls closed at 8 p.m. local time, and official tallies will come later in the evening. People around the world are watching the election as a litmus test of just how influential the strains of populism and nationalism in Europe have become. French candidates and politicians reacted almost immediately to the results, and many called for the country to rally around Macron in the second round. Fillon, while giving his concession speech, called on supporters to vote for Macron. Ruling Socialist party candidate Benoit Hamon, as well as senior Republican party officials, also threw their support behind Macron in light of the results. “The French have expressed their desire for change. We’re clearly turning a page in French political history,” Macron said of the early results in a statement to Agence France-Presse. Le Pen, on the other hand, also reacted triumphantly to the result. “The great debate will finally take place. The French must seize this historic opportunity.” she tweeted. The first-round vote whittled down the field of 11 candidates, and the top two will face off in a head-to-head contest on May 7. In the days prior to the vote, four front-runners emerged in the tight race to succeed Socialist François Hollande as France’s next leader. Macron and Le Pen were leading in the polls at 23 percent and 22 percent, respectively . Meanwhile, Fillon and Mélenchon hovered between 19 and 20 percent. France finds itself at somewhat of a crossroads in its political history. Working-class voters are struggling with high unemployment and an economy that hasn’t fully recovered from the European debt crisis. Several French cities are reeling from recent deadly terrorist attacks. (A 39-year-old French national killed one police officer and injured several more Thursday night on Paris’ Champs Elysées, in an incident that the self-described Islamic State took credit for shortly after. French authorities foiled yet another attack in the city of Marseille last week.) Following the Champs Elysées attack, President Donald Trump predicted that the shooting would have a “big effect” on the election and Le Pen gave a speech in which she vowed to protect France. Fillon also sought to position himself as tough on terror following the attack, saying that fighting “Islamist totalitarianism” needed to be a priority for the government. But despite the hard-line rhetoric, the attack did not appear to shift voting patterns. The early results mostly reflected polls before the attack, and neither Fillon nor Le Pen gained a boost that propelled them into first place. Security fears still loomed over France on Sunday as citizens voted, however, and a polling station in the eastern town of Besancon was evacuated after a stolen vehicle was reportedly abandoned nearby with its engine still running. French citizens abroad also voted Sunday, forming long lines at polling stations in a number of major cities across the globe. As of early evening, turnout was down around 1 percent from the 2012 election. The threat of terror and a lack of jobs have fueled distrust in the government and reinvigorated a vicious debate about immigration and national identity. The vote is just as much a test for the future of Europe. Compounding France’s internal challenges are the rise of populism and the rejection of establishment politics in places like Britain and the United States. Trust in the European system has eroded, and proposals to depart the European Union have become en vogue for populist candidates across the continent. Amid these larger challenges, the French election has also been marked by scandal, surprises and upsets at every turn. First, Hollande announced he would not seek re-election. Then, former President Nicolas Sarkozy failed to win his party’s nomination when Fillon, who served as prime minister from 2007 to 2017, beat him in the primaries. The conservative Fillon was a likely front-runner, appealing to right-wing voters with a pro-business and socially conservative platform mixed with anti-immigration and anti-Islam views. But a series of scandals, including allegations Fillon had paid his family members to work as parliamentary aides, caused his support to plummet. As Fillon’s star faded, Macron ’s rose. A relative political novice, Macron founded his own political party, En Marche! (which translates roughly to “Onward!”). After leaving investment banking in 2014, he served as Hollande’s economic minister until deciding to run for office last year. Unlike Le Pen, Macron is pro-E.U. and pro-immigration. For Le Pen, the election is the ultimate test of her efforts to bring the extreme-right National Front into the mainstream. Le Pen took over the party’s leadership from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, and has worked hard to clean up its image. She remains vehemently anti-immigration and has vowed to hold a referendum on France’s membership in the European Union if elected. Le Pen is also an open admirer of Russian President Vladimir Putin. During a visit to the Kremlin last month , she called sanctions against Russia “silly” and reiterated her desire for closer ties with Russia. Faced with declining polls in recent weeks, Le Pen has made a sharp turn to the right and intensified her anti-immigrant rhetoric. For months, polls have been leaning in favor of a runoff between Le Pen and Macron, putting Le Pen’s presidential dream within reach. And she’s managed to harness the youth vote : An Ifop survey last month revealed that 39 percent of French voters between the ages of 18 and 24 back her. But the far-left Mélenchon, 65, threw a major curveball by soaring to prominence in the final stretch of the race. A open admirer of former Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez and former Chinese communist leader Mao Zedong, Mélenchon spent decades in the Socialist Party before forming his own party, La France Insoumise (“A France That Won’t Bow Down”) last year. He views himself as a patriot who wants to end austerity and boost the economy with a giant stimulus package while also reducing the workweek to 32 hours. Like Le Pen, he opposes E.U. and various other international institutions, including the World Trade Organization. Trump suggested that he was keeping an eye on the election, tweeting that it was “very interesting.” Very interesting election currently taking place in France. ALSO ON HUFFPOST France Strikes           Share this slide:           MORE: CONVERSATIONS   Learn more

The preliminary results of France’s first round of presidential elections are in, and independent candidate Emmanuel Macron is predicted to win with 23.7 percent of the vote. Far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen appears to be the runner-up with 21.7 percent and would face off against Macron in the second round if these figures hold.

Far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon and conservative Republican party leader Francois Fillon were narrowly edged out of the final round, both with an estimated 19.5 percent of the vote.

These numbers are early estimates released after polls closed at 8 p.m. local time, and official tallies will come later in the evening. People around the world are watching the election as a litmus test of just how influential the strains of populism and nationalism in Europe have become.

French candidates and politicians reacted almost immediately to the results, and many called for the country to rally around Macron in the second round. Fillon, while giving his concession speech, called on supporters to vote for Macron. Ruling Socialist party candidate Benoit Hamon, as well as senior Republican party officials, also threw their support behind Macron in light of the results.

“The French have expressed their desire for change. We’re clearly turning a page in French political history,” Macron said of the early results in a statement to Agence France-Presse.

Le Pen, on the other hand, also reacted triumphantly to the result.

“The great debate will finally take place. The French must seize this historic opportunity.” she tweeted.

The first-round vote whittled down the field of 11 candidates, and the top two will face off in a head-to-head contest on May 7.

In the days prior to the vote, four front-runners emerged in the tight race to succeed Socialist François Hollande as France’s next leader. Macron and Le Pen were leading in the polls at 23 percent and 22 percent, respectively. Meanwhile, Fillon and Mélenchon hovered between 19 and 20 percent.

POOL New / Reuters From left to right: François Fillon, Emmanuel Macron, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Marine Le Pen and socialist Benoît Hamon.

France finds itself at somewhat of a crossroads in its political history. Working-class voters are struggling with high unemployment and an economy that hasn’t fully recovered from the European debt crisis. Several French cities are reeling from recent deadly terrorist attacks. (A 39-year-old French national killed one police officer and injured several more Thursday night on Paris’ Champs Elysées, in an incident that the self-described Islamic State took credit for shortly after. French authorities foiled yet another attack in the city of Marseille last week.)

Following the Champs Elysées attack, President Donald Trump predicted that the shooting would have a “big effect” on the election and Le Pen gave a speech in which she vowed to protect France. Fillon also sought to position himself as tough on terror following the attack, saying that fighting “Islamist totalitarianism” needed to be a priority for the government.

But despite the hard-line rhetoric, the attack did not appear to shift voting patterns. The early results mostly reflected polls before the attack, and neither Fillon nor Le Pen gained a boost that propelled them into first place.

Security fears still loomed over France on Sunday as citizens voted, however, and a polling station in the eastern town of Besancon was evacuated after a stolen vehicle was reportedly abandoned nearby with its engine still running.

French citizens abroad also voted Sunday, forming long lines at polling stations in a number of major cities across the globe. As of early evening, turnout was down around 1 percent from the 2012 election.

The threat of terror and a lack of jobs have fueled distrust in the government and reinvigorated a vicious debate about immigration and national identity.

The vote is just as much a test for the future of Europe. Compounding France’s internal challenges are the rise of populism and the rejection of establishment politics in places like Britain and the United States. Trust in the European system has eroded, and proposals to depart the European Union have become en vogue for populist candidates across the continent.

GEORGES GOBET via Getty Images A person casts a ballot at a polling station on April 23, 2017 in Tulle, France.

Amid these larger challenges, the French election has also been marked by scandal, surprises and upsets at every turn.

First, Hollande announced he would not seek re-election. Then, former President Nicolas Sarkozy failed to win his party’s nomination when Fillon, who served as prime minister from 2007 to 2017, beat him in the primaries.

The conservative Fillon was a likely front-runner, appealing to right-wing voters with a pro-business and socially conservative platform mixed with anti-immigration and anti-Islam views. But a series of scandals, including allegations Fillon had paid his family members to work as parliamentary aides, caused his support to plummet.

As Fillon’s star faded, Macron’s rose. A relative political novice, Macron founded his own political party, En Marche! (which translates roughly to “Onward!”). After leaving investment banking in 2014, he served as Hollande’s economic minister until deciding to run for office last year. Unlike Le Pen, Macron is pro-E.U. and pro-immigration.

HuffPost France

For Le Pen, the election is the ultimate test of her efforts to bring the extreme-right National Front into the mainstream.

Le Pen took over the party’s leadership from her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, and has worked hard to clean up its image. She remains vehemently anti-immigration and has vowed to hold a referendum on France’s membership in the European Union if elected.

Le Pen is also an open admirer of Russian President Vladimir Putin. During a visit to the Kremlin last month, she called sanctions against Russia “silly” and reiterated her desire for closer ties with Russia. Faced with declining polls in recent weeks, Le Pen has made a sharp turn to the right and intensified her anti-immigrant rhetoric.

POOL New / Reuters Francois Fillon, presidential candidate and member of the center-right Republican Party in France, casts his vote.

For months, polls have been leaning in favor of a runoff between Le Pen and Macron, putting Le Pen’s presidential dream within reach. And she’s managed to harness the youth vote: An Ifop survey last month revealed that 39 percent of French voters between the ages of 18 and 24 back her.

But the far-left Mélenchon, 65, threw a major curveball by soaring to prominence in the final stretch of the race.

A open admirer of former Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez and former Chinese communist leader Mao Zedong, Mélenchon spent decades in the Socialist Party before forming his own party, La France Insoumise (“A France That Won’t Bow Down”) last year.

He views himself as a patriot who wants to end austerity and boost the economy with a giant stimulus package while also reducing the workweek to 32 hours. Like Le Pen, he opposes E.U. and various other international institutions, including the World Trade Organization.

Trump suggested that he was keeping an eye on the election, tweeting that it was “very interesting.”

Very interesting election currently taking place in France. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 23, 2017