Sacked By Trump Administration, Indian-American Surgeon General Vivek Murthy Says His Success Was A ‘Uniquely American Story’
Sacked By Trump Admin, Indian-American Top Doc Says His Success was A ‘Uniquely American Story'
Sacked By Trump Administration, Indian-American Surgeon General Murthy Says His Success Was A ‘Uniquely American Story’ Former US surgeon general Vivek Murthy says that his’ is a uniquely American story’ as the transition from a ‘grandson of a poor farmer in India’ to USA’s surgeon general was indeed a transition many wouldn’t be able to pull off. Murthy who was picked as America’s top doctor by Obama administration in 2014 was sacked by Trump administration on Friday. Murthy was the first Indian-American ever to be named for the post which was one of many achievements of the tiny yet economically strengthened community. The US health and human services said in a statement on Friday he had been asked “to resign from his duties as surgeon general after assisting in a smooth transition into the new Trump Administration … (and stood) relieved of his duties”. Rear Admiral Sylvia Trent-Adams, a nurse by training and currently the deputy surgeon general was named as acting surgeon general While he went on to recount his goals and achievements as surgeon general and said he “had hoped to do more to help our nation tackle its biggest health challenges, (but) I will be forever grateful for the opportunity to have served”. Murthy’s exit was the second in a row for Indian American in a high position after Preet Bharara, who was among several US attorneys asked to resign by Trump in March. But Trump has named several Indian Americans to senior positions, including Nikki Haley as ambassador to the UN, a cabinet-level post that is a first for the community, Seema Verma at the human and health services and Ajit Pai as head of the Federal Communications Commission. Murthy who's parents are originally from Karnataka is now 39. He came to the United States with his family at the age of three and grew up in Florida. He studied biomedical sciences at Harvard and medicine at Yale. Murthy became an early supporter of  Obama, starting a group of doctors supporting Obama in 2007-2008, which later became Doctors for America, a non-profit. His nomination as surgeon general was opposed by Republicans and took 10 months.

Former US surgeon general Vivek Murthy says that his’ is a uniquely American story’ as the transition from a ‘grandson of a poor farmer in India’ to USA’s surgeon general was indeed a transition many wouldn’t be able to pull off.

Murthy who was picked as America’s top doctor by Obama administration in 2014 was sacked by Trump administration on Friday. Murthy was the first Indian-American ever to be named for the post which was one of many achievements of the tiny yet economically strengthened community.

BCCL

The US health and human services said in a statement on Friday he had been asked “to resign from his duties as surgeon general after assisting in a smooth transition into the new Trump Administration … (and stood) relieved of his duties”. Rear Admiral Sylvia Trent-Adams, a nurse by training and currently the deputy surgeon general was named as acting surgeon general

While he went on to recount his goals and achievements as surgeon general and said he “had hoped to do more to help our nation tackle its biggest health challenges, (but) I will be forever grateful for the opportunity to have served”.

Murthy’s exit was the second in a row for Indian American in a high position after Preet Bharara, who was among several US attorneys asked to resign by Trump in March.

But Trump has named several Indian Americans to senior positions, including Nikki Haley as ambassador to the UN, a cabinet-level post that is a first for the community, Seema Verma at the human and health services and Ajit Pai as head of the Federal Communications Commission.

FB

Murthy who's parents are originally from Karnataka is now 39. He came to the United States with his family at the age of three and grew up in Florida. He studied biomedical sciences at Harvard and medicine at Yale.

Murthy became an early supporter of Obama, starting a group of doctors supporting Obama in 2007-2008, which later became Doctors for America, a non-profit. His nomination as surgeon general was opposed by Republicans and took 10 months.

Don't Miss 1.4 K SHARES 68 K SHARES 34.4 K SHARES 23.6 K SHARES