President Trump to hold rally in Pennsylvania on night of White House Correspondents Dinner
President Trump to hold rally on night of White House Correspondents Dinner
Shares               President Trump, who previously announced that he would not be attending the White House Correspondents Dinner next Saturday night, said today that he will instead hold a rally for supporters that night in Pennsylvania. The president announced the rally in a tweet on Saturday.  Next Saturday night I will be holding a BIG rally in Pennsylvania. Look forward to it!  The rally will take place at 7:30 p.m. the Pennsylvania Farm Show complex and Expo Center in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. In addition to the president's absence at the correspondents dinner, no members of the White House staff are planning to attend either. Shares                  President Trump to hold rally on night of White House Correspondents Dinner   After controversial Hawaii comment, Sessions says 'nobody has a sense of humor'   California Attorney General: 'We're ready' to fight Trump administration over sanctuary cities   Sessions, unlike Trump, says DREAMers are 'subject to being deported'   'This Week' Transcript 4-23-17: Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Xavier Becerra   The Pences spend last day in Sydney sightseeing   Trump at 100 days: 96 percent of his voters say they'd do it again (POLL)   Government funding, health care top agenda as Congress returns   President Trump awards Purple Heart in first visit to Walter Reed   Scientists, supporters march calling for respect, funding   Surgeon General removed from post by Trump administration   Sunday on 'This Week': Jeff Sessions and Xavier Becerra   Centrist Macron, populist Le Pen advance in French election that has consequences for Europe   North Korea detained a professor who is US citizen; at least 3rd American held   Israel-China construction deal reportedly bans settlements   Hillary Clinton makes surprise appearance at Tribeca Fest

President Trump, who previously announced that he would not be attending the White House Correspondents Dinner next Saturday night, said today that he will instead hold a rally for supporters that night in Pennsylvania.

The president announced the rally in a tweet on Saturday.

Next Saturday night I will be holding a BIG rally in Pennsylvania. Look forward to it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 22, 2017

The rally will take place at 7:30 p.m. the Pennsylvania Farm Show complex and Expo Center in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

In addition to the president's absence at the correspondents dinner, no members of the White House staff are planning to attend either.