Twitter Dragged Paul George for Missing Final Shot After Saying He Should Take Final Shot
Twitter Dragged Paul George for Missing Final Shot After Saying He Should Take Final Shot
Be careful what you wish for. Following Game 1 of the Indiana Pacers ' first-round series against the Cleveland Cavaliers , Paul George was forced to give the ball to teammate C.J. Miles after getting double-teamed, passing up on an opportunity at taking the final game-winning shot. Even though George made the smart basketball play, he was adamant that he should have been the last Pacers player with the rock in his hands. Pacers' Paul George on final possession in Game 1 loss vs. Cavaliers: "Situations like that, I've got to get the last shot." pic.twitter.com/nZIud7OvCU Fast forward to Game 4, George got exactly what he wished for and...yikes. "i let my guys know ... i gotta get that shot" - Paul George pic.twitter.com/nnMtTVckf0 And much like Pepperidge Farm, Twitter doesn't forget anything, and people were quick to remind George of that little statement he made earlier in the series. Paul George: "I have to be the one to take the last shot" Also Paul George: pic.twitter.com/dfIA9RiK3m Paul George: "I want that last shot." Also Paul George: pic.twitter.com/lNUr1dc2gv CJ Miles watching Paul George miss the final shot:  Pacers pic.twitter.com/1NWY8UoJEl Paul George's final shot 😂 pic.twitter.com/4GfqDhPpqk Let me get this straight: Paul George blasted CJ Miles after he didnt get the final shot in GM1 but he is 2-32 on game-tying or go-ahead FGs pic.twitter.com/pBHg10m4av Paul George : Makes it clear after game 1 that he should have had the final shot  Also Paul George: Gets it in Game 4, doesn't hit rim Paul George should've let CJ Miles take the final shot, at least he hit the rim... #nbaplayoffs Paul George says he needs to take final shot, gets it and Airball!! With the Pacers' season officially over, the focus is now on George's future. Will he be in an Indiana uniform next season? At this moment, PG isn't even thinking about all that. Pacers' Paul George on whether he wants to stay in Indiana: "I ain't even at that point yet, Bob. Next question." pic.twitter.com/A85CPLtkVA sportstips@complex.com

Be careful what you wish for. Following Game 1 of the Indiana Pacers' first-round series against the Cleveland Cavaliers, Paul George was forced to give the ball to teammate C.J. Miles after getting double-teamed, passing up on an opportunity at taking the final game-winning shot. Even though George made the smart basketball play, he was adamant that he should have been the last Pacers player with the rock in his hands.

Pacers' Paul George on final possession in Game 1 loss vs. Cavaliers: "Situations like that, I've got to get the last shot." pic.twitter.com/nZIud7OvCU — Ben Golliver (@BenGolliver) April 15, 2017

Fast forward to Game 4, George got exactly what he wished for and...yikes.

"i let my guys know ... i gotta get that shot" - Paul George pic.twitter.com/nnMtTVckf0 — everything i'm not (@no_cut_card) April 23, 2017

And much like Pepperidge Farm, Twitter doesn't forget anything, and people were quick to remind George of that little statement he made earlier in the series.

Paul George: "I have to be the one to take the last shot"

Also Paul George: pic.twitter.com/dfIA9RiK3m — Flexbrook (@RussFlexbrook) April 23, 2017

Paul George: "I want that last shot."

Also Paul George: pic.twitter.com/lNUr1dc2gv — Andy Puente (@AndyJPuente) April 23, 2017

CJ Miles watching Paul George miss the final shot:



Pacers pic.twitter.com/1NWY8UoJEl — MJ⛳️ (@MJGWrites) April 23, 2017

Paul George's final shot 😂 pic.twitter.com/4GfqDhPpqk — Dante Kinney (@DanteJK90) April 23, 2017

Let me get this straight: Paul George blasted CJ Miles after he didnt get the final shot in GM1 but he is 2-32 on game-tying or go-ahead FGs pic.twitter.com/pBHg10m4av — Eric Dwayne II (@ED_TheSecond) April 23, 2017

Paul George : Makes it clear after game 1 that he should have had the final shot



Also Paul George: Gets it in Game 4, doesn't hit rim — ....... (@ejprod_ktda) April 23, 2017

Paul George should've let CJ Miles take the final shot, at least he hit the rim... #nbaplayoffs — Bryce Busk (@Glory801) April 23, 2017

Paul George says he needs to take final shot, gets it and Airball!! — h g corry (@hgcorry) April 23, 2017

With the Pacers' season officially over, the focus is now on George's future. Will he be in an Indiana uniform next season? At this moment, PG isn't even thinking about all that.

Pacers' Paul George on whether he wants to stay in Indiana: "I ain't even at that point yet, Bob. Next question." pic.twitter.com/A85CPLtkVA — Ben Golliver (@BenGolliver) April 23, 2017

Send all complaints, compliments, and tips to sportstips@complex.com.