No Regrets: 96 Percent of Trump Voters Stand By Their Decision

No Regrets: 96 Percent of Trump Voters Stand By Their Decision // // As President Trump closes in on 100 days in office, an overwhelming majority of Americans who voted for him say they don't regret doing so in 2016. In a new Washington Post poll , 96 percent of Trump voters say supporting the former New York businessman was the right thing to do, while only 2 percent regret their vote. That poll contrasts with the president's current approval rating, which sits around 42 percent. On "Fox & Friends Weekend," Connell McShane said the wide difference shows voters are willing to give Trump more time to get his agenda through. McShane said many voters think Trump has not gotten as fair a shake in his "honeymoon period" as previous presidents. Abby Huntsman pointed out that a large number of voters supported Trump because of his promise to replace late Justice Antonin Scalia with someone of equal jurisprudence. The confirmation of Justice Neil Gorsuch appears to have validated those voters wishes, which could part of the reason for such a high percentage of voter support. Next Saturday, Trump will be headlining a rally at the massive arena inside the Pennsylvania Farm Show complex in Harrisburg, Pa. to celebrate his first 100 days.

Fox News Channel has a brand-new primetime lineup debuting on Monday, as Tucker Carlson Tonight moves to 8:00pm ET and The Five shifts to the 9:00pm timeslot.

As President Trump closes in on 100 days in office, an overwhelming majority of Americans who voted for him say they don't regret doing so in 2016.

In a new Washington Post poll, 96 percent of Trump voters say supporting the former New York businessman was the right thing to do, while only 2 percent regret their vote.

That poll contrasts with the president's current approval rating, which sits around 42 percent.

On "Fox & Friends Weekend," Connell McShane said the wide difference shows voters are willing to give Trump more time to get his agenda through.

DNC Chair Slammed for Continuing Anti-Trump Profanity on 'Unity Tour'

'They Almost Won Something': Gutfeld Jabs Dems for Celebrating GA Election Loss

'Time to Fight Back': Pirro Slams Left-Wing 'Snowflakes' Trying to Mute Free Speech

McShane said many voters think Trump has not gotten as fair a shake in his "honeymoon period" as previous presidents.

Abby Huntsman pointed out that a large number of voters supported Trump because of his promise to replace late Justice Antonin Scalia with someone of equal jurisprudence.

The confirmation of Justice Neil Gorsuch appears to have validated those voters wishes, which could part of the reason for such a high percentage of voter support.

Next Saturday, Trump will be headlining a rally at the massive arena inside the Pennsylvania Farm Show complex in Harrisburg, Pa. to celebrate his first 100 days.