Ivanka Trump worshiped as a 'Goddess' by Chinese fans
Ivanka Trump worshipped as a 'Goddess' by Chinese fans


Her father's brand may be struggling for popularity in the US, but Ivanka Trump is cultivating a cult following in China.

An online fan club on the website Weibo, which is similar to Twitter, even refers to the president's daughter as 'Goddess Ivanka'.

NBC News reports the page with the same title has about 12,000 followers, many of whom are effusive in their praise for the 35-year-old.

Hu Xingdou, a Beijing professor, told the network much of Ivanka Trump's popularity comes from people thinking she is supportive of China.

Ivanka Trump is cultivating a huge following in China - where fan clubs have popped up across social media

'Most people in China love Ivanka because of her friendly gestures towards the Chinese people,' Xingdou said.

'Ivanka is an important bridge during this period of uncertainties in China-US relations.'

The professor then referenced videos Trump posted on social media of her daughter, Arabella, singing in Chinese to President Xi Jinping earlier this month.

'That was a boost for Chinese cultural nationalism,' he said.

This picture shows the 'Goddess Ivanka' fan club page that has more than 12,000 followers on Weibo

'It shows that Chinese culture has an important place in international society.'

The reports of Trump's popularity came as the Chinese foreign ministry was forced to defend the government's handling of Ivanka's trademark applications in the wake of her father becoming president.

Beijing Foreign Affairs spokesman Lu Kang was asked about the trademarks Wednesday, a day after it was reported the president's daughter had won provisional approval for at least five January's inauguration.

Three of those approvals were granted April 6, the day Ivanka Trump and her husband sat next to Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife for dinner at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida during a state visit to the US.

Ivanka Trump and her husband are seen during a dinner with Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago on April 6

Ivanka Trump speaks in the South Court Auditorium on the White House complex in Washington on April 4

Lu said China follows the law in granting trademarks and 'the principle of giving equal protection to foreign trademark holders.'

Asked about the timing of the April 6 approvals, Lu said: 'There are perhaps some media engaging in hyping certain gossip to hint at something undisclosed.

'I can tell you that they will never succeed.'

Beyond the provisionally approved trademarks, Ivanka Trump Marks LLC has 16 registered trademarks in China and more than 30 pending applications, according to China's Trademark Office database.

Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping are pictured during a dinner this month. Ivanka Trump is seen on the left

They collectively cover a wide range of goods and services, including cosmetics, jewelry, leather handbags, luggage, clothes, shoes, retail, spa and beauty services.

The trademarks grant the company monopoly rights to sell Ivanka-brand jewelry, bags and spa services in the world's second-largest economy.

Other countries where the company has pending and registered trademarks include Japan, Mexico, Turkey, Israel, Canada and Saudi Arabia.