Risk Is Back On After French Election; Euro Jumps: Markets Wrap
Risk Is Back On After French Election; Euro Jumps: Markets Wrap
CMC's Spooner Says Markets Will Assume a Macron Win Investors swung back into a risk-taking mode on speculation that pro-growth centrist Emmanuel Macron will become France’s next president. The euro jumped the most in a month while the yen retreated and volatility ebbed as Macron and far-right nationalist Marine Le Pen won the first round of voting. U.S. stock-index futures rose, while Japan shares rallied to lead equities across Asia. China shares resumed a selloff. Gold dropped and 10-year Treasury yields climbed the most since March 1 on a closing basis. The results of the weekend vote, in which both establishment parties were eliminated, triggers a runoff on May 7 between two radically different visions of the country’s future. Le Pen, who wants to take France out of the euro and clamp down on immigration, has trailed Macron, a committed globalist, in almost every opinion poll for the runoff by a margin of some 20 percentage points. A snap Ipsos survey late on Sunday suggested he’d win by 62 percent to 38 percent for Le Pen. “The market will likely fully price in the outcome of the second round today in favor of Mr. Macron,” said Jordan Rochester, London-based foreign exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “If that view is right then Emmanuel Macron ought to be the next president of France. And that in turn should be positive for the French economy and for broader European economic stability.” In the wake of last year’s Brexit referendum and Donald Trump’s victory in U.S. elections, investors have been anxiously viewing the French vote as an event that could shape European politics for years to come. The rejection of the two main parties reflects the anger coursing through a society traumatized by Islamic terrorism and buffeted by years of sub-par economic growth and high unemployment. A victory for Le Pen would bring that discontent to a head. “If you’re in the market, you’re expecting a Macron win -- a fairly comfortable win -- in the second round,” Chris Weston , Melbourne-based chief market strategist at IG Ltd., told Bloomberg TV. He expects the CAC 40 Index to open about 140 points higher when trading begins in Paris, signaling gains of almost 3 percent. “There’s going to be some relief coming through.” Read analysis from Bloomberg’s macro strategist here: Enjoy the party, markets, but beware of the hangover . Read our Markets Live blog here: What investors are watching beyond the elections: A U.S. government shutdown is possible on April 29 if Congress doesn’t approve a spending bill to fund the government past April 28. The earnings season is in full swing. Alphabet Inc., Microsoft Corp., Amazon.com Inc., Twitter Inc., Intel Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG, Barclays Plc, Bayer AG, Daimler AG and Total SA are among many major companies releasing earnings. The Bank of Japan is widely expected to keep the settings on its monetary easing program unchanged at the end of a two-day policy meeting on Thursday. Though inflation remains well below the central bank’s 2 percent target, it’s ticking up. The European Central Bank sets monetary policy later that same day. With officials indicating little chance of a policy change, the focus will be on any signals from President Mario Draghi that the ECB is starting to discuss an exit from its extraordinary stimulus. U.S. GDP is due at the end of the week. The economy probably expanded at a 1.5 percent annualized rate in the first quarter, the weakest pace in nearly a year, the estimate is projected to show. Here are the main market moves: Currencies The euro climbed 1.1 percent to $1.0844 as of 10:44 a.m. in Tokyo. The currency soared as much as 2 percent earlier. Other European currencies rallied, with the Swedish krona jumping 1.5 percent and the Norwegian krone increasing 1.3 percent. The yen fell 0.8 percent to 110.05 per dollar, after capping the first weekly loss in three on Friday. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index slipped 0.4 percent, trading near the lowest level since the U.S. election in November. Stocks Futures on the S&P 500 Index rose 0.8 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced for a third day, gaining 0.3 percent. Japan’s Topix increased 0.9 percent, after its first weekly advance in more than a month. South Korea’s Kospi rose 0.2 percent. New Zealand’s S&P/NZX 50 Index added 0.4 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 gained 0.3 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng increased 0.2 percent and the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index advanced 0.3 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.8 percent to the lowest since January. Volatility measures slumped, with a gauge for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average falling 13 percent, the most since March 6. A similar measure for Hong Kong dropped 10 percent, the biggest decline since November. Bonds Treasury 10-year yields rose six basis points to 2.31 percent. Australian benchmark yields jumped five basis points to 2.59 percent. The cost of insuring Asia corporate and sovereign bonds from nonpayment fell the most in five weeks. Commodities Gold slipped 0.6 percent to $1,276.17 an ounce. Oil climbed 0.4 percent to $49.82 a barrel. Crude fell about 7 percent last week for the worst performance in more than a month.

Investors swung back into a risk-taking mode on speculation that pro-growth centrist Emmanuel Macron will become France’s next president.

The euro jumped the most in a month while the yen retreated and volatility ebbed as Macron and far-right nationalist Marine Le Pen won the first round of voting. U.S. stock-index futures rose, while Japan shares rallied to lead equities across Asia. China shares resumed a selloff. Gold dropped and 10-year Treasury yields climbed the most since March 1 on a closing basis.

The most important market news of the day. Get our markets daily newsletter.

The results of the weekend vote, in which both establishment parties were eliminated, triggers a runoff on May 7 between two radically different visions of the country’s future. Le Pen, who wants to take France out of the euro and clamp down on immigration, has trailed Macron, a committed globalist, in almost every opinion poll for the runoff by a margin of some 20 percentage points. A snap Ipsos survey late on Sunday suggested he’d win by 62 percent to 38 percent for Le Pen.

“The market will likely fully price in the outcome of the second round today in favor of Mr. Macron,” said Jordan Rochester, London-based foreign exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “If that view is right then Emmanuel Macron ought to be the next president of France. And that in turn should be positive for the French economy and for broader European economic stability.”

In the wake of last year’s Brexit referendum and Donald Trump’s victory in U.S. elections, investors have been anxiously viewing the French vote as an event that could shape European politics for years to come. The rejection of the two main parties reflects the anger coursing through a society traumatized by Islamic terrorism and buffeted by years of sub-par economic growth and high unemployment. A victory for Le Pen would bring that discontent to a head.

“If you’re in the market, you’re expecting a Macron win -- a fairly comfortable win -- in the second round,” Chris Weston, Melbourne-based chief market strategist at IG Ltd., told Bloomberg TV. He expects the CAC 40 Index to open about 140 points higher when trading begins in Paris, signaling gains of almost 3 percent. “There’s going to be some relief coming through.”

Read analysis from Bloomberg’s macro strategist here: Enjoy the party, markets, but beware of the hangover.

Read our Markets Live blog here:

What investors are watching beyond the elections:

A U.S. government shutdown is possible on April 29 if Congress doesn’t approve a spending bill to fund the government past April 28.

Congress doesn’t approve a spending bill to fund the government past April 28. The earnings season is in full swing. Alphabet Inc., Microsoft Corp., Amazon.com Inc., Twitter Inc., Intel Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG, Barclays Plc, Bayer AG, Daimler AG and Total SA are among many major companies releasing earnings.

The Bank of Japan is widely expected to keep the settings on its monetary easing program unchanged at the end of a two-day policy meeting on Thursday. Though inflation remains well below the central bank’s 2 percent target, it’s ticking up.

The European Central Bank sets monetary policy later that same day. With officials indicating little chance of a policy change, the focus will be on any signals from President Mario Draghi that the ECB is starting to discuss an exit from its extraordinary stimulus.

U.S. GDP is due at the end of the week. The economy probably expanded at a 1.5 percent annualized rate in the first quarter, the weakest pace in nearly a year, the estimate is projected to show.

Here are the main market moves:

Currencies

The euro climbed 1.1 percent to $1.0844 as of 10:44 a.m. in Tokyo. The currency soared as much as 2 percent earlier. Other European currencies rallied, with the Swedish krona jumping 1.5 percent and the Norwegian krone increasing 1.3 percent.

The yen fell 0.8 percent to 110.05 per dollar, after capping the first weekly loss in three on Friday.

The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index slipped 0.4 percent, trading near the lowest level since the U.S. election in November.

Stocks

Futures on the S&P 500 Index rose 0.8 percent.

The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced for a third day, gaining 0.3 percent.

Japan’s Topix increased 0.9 percent, after its first weekly advance in more than a month.

South Korea’s Kospi rose 0.2 percent. New Zealand’s S&P/NZX 50 Index added 0.4 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 gained 0.3 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng increased 0.2 percent and the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index advanced 0.3 percent.

The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.8 percent to the lowest since January.

Volatility measures slumped, with a gauge for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average falling 13 percent, the most since March 6. A similar measure for Hong Kong dropped 10 percent, the biggest decline since November.

Bonds

Treasury 10-year yields rose six basis points to 2.31 percent.

Australian benchmark yields jumped five basis points to 2.59 percent.

The cost of insuring Asia corporate and sovereign bonds from nonpayment fell the most in five weeks.

Commodities