North Korea Is Said to Detain Another U.S. Citizen
North Korea Is Said to Detain Another U.S. Citizen
SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea has detained a United States citizen, the Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang and a university chancellor said Sunday, raising the number of Americans thought to be held by the secretive nation to three. The arrest, if confirmed, would further complicate Washington’s relations with the country at a particularly tense moment . The man, Tony Kim, who also goes by his Korean name, Kim Sang-duk, was detained on Saturday, Park Chan-mo, the chancellor of Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, told The Associated Press. Mr. Park said Mr. Kim had taught accounting at the university for about a month, and had taught at Yanbian University of Science and Technology in China before coming to Pyongyang. He said Mr. Kim had been detained by officials at Sunan International Airport in Pyongyang as he was trying to leave North Korea . South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency, citing unnamed sources, said earlier that a Korean-American man identified by only his last name, Kim, had been arrested at the airport. Advertisement It said the man, who is in his late 50s and is a former professor at Yanbian University, has been involved in aid and relief programs to North Korea. The Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang, the capital, said it was aware that the North had recently detained a Korean-American citizen, The A.P. reported. The United States does not have formal diplomatic ties with North Korea, and the embassy looks after consular affairs in the North on behalf of Washington. The South Korean government, including its Unification Ministry and National Intelligence Service, said it could not confirm the report. North Korea has a history of detaining foreigners. The North has been accused of holding Americans on what many see as dubious charges in order to use them as diplomatic leverage. At least two other Americans are known to be held in the country. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy Relations with Washington have reached a pitch recently, as North Korea has tested missiles and the United States has threatened to send warships to the region. North Korea said Sunday it was ready to sink a United States aircraft carrier to demonstrate its military might, as two Japanese Navy ships joined a United States carrier group for exercises in the western Pacific, Reuters reported. “Our revolutionary forces are combat-ready to sink a U.S. nuclear-powered aircraft carrier with a single strike,” Rodong Sinmun, the newspaper of the North’s ruling Workers’ Party, said in a commentary. Last year, North Korea sentenced an American college student , Otto F. Warmbier, to 15 years’ hard labor after accusing him of trying to steal a political banner from his hotel in Pyongyang. It later sentenced another American, Kim Dong-chul , to 10 years’ hard labor on charges of spying and other offenses. In 2014, an American citizen, Jeffrey E. Fowle, was arrested and accused of leaving a Bible in a hotel. He was released that year. Kenneth Bae , a Korean-American missionary sentenced to 15 years’ hard labor after he was charged with trying to establish a secret proselytizing network, was freed in 2014 after the American government sent the director of national intelligence at the time, James R. Clapper Jr., to North Korea. Advertisement Americans are not the only foreigners being held in the North. In 2015, a South Korea-born Canadian pastor was sentenced to hard labor for life on charges of plotting to overthrow the North Korean leadership. The North has also arrested at least four South Koreans on spying and other charges in recent years. An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the person in the portrait at right. It shows Kim Jong-il, a former leader of North Korea, not his son, Kim Jong-un, the country’s current leader. A version of this article appears in print on April 24, 2017, on Page A6 of the with the headline: North Korea Said to Hold U.S. Citizen,  Its Third.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.

Photo

SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea has detained a United States citizen, the Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang and a university chancellor said Sunday, raising the number of Americans thought to be held by the secretive nation to three.

The arrest, if confirmed, would further complicate Washington’s relations with the country at a particularly tense moment.

The man, Tony Kim, who also goes by his Korean name, Kim Sang-duk, was detained on Saturday, Park Chan-mo, the chancellor of Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, told The Associated Press.

Mr. Park said Mr. Kim had taught accounting at the university for about a month, and had taught at Yanbian University of Science and Technology in China before coming to Pyongyang. He said Mr. Kim had been detained by officials at Sunan International Airport in Pyongyang as he was trying to leave North Korea.

South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency, citing unnamed sources, said earlier that a Korean-American man identified by only his last name, Kim, had been arrested at the airport.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It said the man, who is in his late 50s and is a former professor at Yanbian University, has been involved in aid and relief programs to North Korea.

The Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang, the capital, said it was aware that the North had recently detained a Korean-American citizen, The A.P. reported. The United States does not have formal diplomatic ties with North Korea, and the embassy looks after consular affairs in the North on behalf of Washington.

The South Korean government, including its Unification Ministry and National Intelligence Service, said it could not confirm the report.

North Korea has a history of detaining foreigners. The North has been accused of holding Americans on what many see as dubious charges in order to use them as diplomatic leverage. At least two other Americans are known to be held in the country.

Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

Relations with Washington have reached a pitch recently, as North Korea has tested missiles and the United States has threatened to send warships to the region.

North Korea said Sunday it was ready to sink a United States aircraft carrier to demonstrate its military might, as two Japanese Navy ships joined a United States carrier group for exercises in the western Pacific, Reuters reported.

“Our revolutionary forces are combat-ready to sink a U.S. nuclear-powered aircraft carrier with a single strike,” Rodong Sinmun, the newspaper of the North’s ruling Workers’ Party, said in a commentary.

Last year, North Korea sentenced an American college student, Otto F. Warmbier, to 15 years’ hard labor after accusing him of trying to steal a political banner from his hotel in Pyongyang. It later sentenced another American, Kim Dong-chul, to 10 years’ hard labor on charges of spying and other offenses.

In 2014, an American citizen, Jeffrey E. Fowle, was arrested and accused of leaving a Bible in a hotel. He was released that year.

Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary sentenced to 15 years’ hard labor after he was charged with trying to establish a secret proselytizing network, was freed in 2014 after the American government sent the director of national intelligence at the time, James R. Clapper Jr., to North Korea.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Americans are not the only foreigners being held in the North. In 2015, a South Korea-born Canadian pastor was sentenced to hard labor for life on charges of plotting to overthrow the North Korean leadership. The North has also arrested at least four South Koreans on spying and other charges in recent years.