Chris Pratt Says His Blue-Collar America Remark Was ‘Pretty Stupid’
Chris Pratt Says His Blue-Collar America Remark Was ‘Pretty Stupid’
Anna Faris has been live-tweeting her life away this week, so maybe she noticed that her husband’s comments about diversity in Hollywood didn’t exactly go over well on social media. Earlier in the week, Chris Pratt told Men’s Fitness that Hollywood has a representation problem when it comes to blue-collar Americans, despite an Oscar season that highlighted the experience of working-class people (see: “Moonlight, “Manchester By The Sea” or “Fences”). “I don’t see personal stories that necessarily resonate with me, because they’re not my stories,” he said. “I think there’s room for me to tell mine, and probably an audience that would be hungry for them. The voice of the average, blue-collar American isn’t necessarily represented in Hollywood.” His comments immediately elicited a passionate response from tweeters who were quick to remind Pratt that not only are there a tons of movies about working-class white men, there are other and more pressing representational issues to focus on in Hollywood. @runwithskizzers Dear Chris Pratt, there is literally no shortage of movies about blue collar white men. Go home. You're canceled. "The average, blue-collar American worker isn't represented in Hollywood" says Chris Pratt who played a shoe shiner on a popular sitcom pic.twitter.com/zlp4voqztn So when Chris Pratt says Hollywood doesn't show blue collar, I feel at the root he's saying "more rich Whites than working/poor Whites." Pratt apparently realized the error of his ways and took to social media on Friday to walk back his statements after the backlash. “That was actually a pretty stupid thing to say. I’ll own that,” he wrote on Friday. “There’s a ton of movies about blue-collar America.” That was actually a pretty stupid thing to say. I'll own that. There's a ton of movies about blue collar America. https://t.co/DclYfNsiv3?ncid=edlinkushpmg00000313 Celebrities, take note. Now is how to take responsibility and apologize publicly.

Chris Pratt attends the ceremony honoring him with a Star on The Hollywood Walk of Fame.

Anna Faris has been live-tweeting her life away this week, so maybe she noticed that her husband’s comments about diversity in Hollywood didn’t exactly go over well on social media.

Earlier in the week, Chris Pratt told Men’s Fitness that Hollywood has a representation problem when it comes to blue-collar Americans, despite an Oscar season that highlighted the experience of working-class people (see: “Moonlight, “Manchester By The Sea” or “Fences”).

“I don’t see personal stories that necessarily resonate with me, because they’re not my stories,” he said. “I think there’s room for me to tell mine, and probably an audience that would be hungry for them. The voice of the average, blue-collar American isn’t necessarily represented in Hollywood.”

His comments immediately elicited a passionate response from tweeters who were quick to remind Pratt that not only are there a tons of movies about working-class white men, there are other and more pressing representational issues to focus on in Hollywood.

@runwithskizzers Dear Chris Pratt, there is literally no shortage of movies about blue collar white men. Go home. You're canceled. — Jess (@jessicaesquire) April 21, 2017

"The average, blue-collar American worker isn't represented in Hollywood" says Chris Pratt who played a shoe shiner on a popular sitcom pic.twitter.com/zlp4voqztn — Eric Francisco (@EricTheDragon) April 21, 2017

So when Chris Pratt says Hollywood doesn't show blue collar, I feel at the root he's saying "more rich Whites than working/poor Whites." — Trudy (@thetrudz) April 21, 2017

Pratt apparently realized the error of his ways and took to social media on Friday to walk back his statements after the backlash.

“That was actually a pretty stupid thing to say. I’ll own that,” he wrote on Friday. “There’s a ton of movies about blue-collar America.”

That was actually a pretty stupid thing to say. I'll own that. There's a ton of movies about blue collar America. https://t.co/DclYfNsiv3?ncid=edlinkushpmg00000313 — chris pratt (@prattprattpratt) April 21, 2017

Celebrities, take note. Now this is how to take responsibility and apologize publicly.