Prince's Fashion Evolution: A Look Back at His Iconoclastic Style
Prince's Fashion Evolution: A Look Back at His Iconoclastic Style
Prince's Fashion Evolution: A Look Back at His Iconoclastic Style  by   FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS  From his earliest days in the public eye back in the '70s, Prince awed audiences with his dynamic, vivid fashion sense and his dizzying array of looks. Always iconoclastic, never dull, take a look back at The Artist's ever-colorful, often daring, always stylish looks. A shirtless, wavy-haired Prince appeared on the cover of his 1979 self-titled sophomore album, looking his audience dead in the eye and boldly reintroducing himself au naturale. Never one to be timid, a "Dirty Mind"-era Prince performed in a sleeveless tee, a bandana, thigh-highs and black underwear at the Los Angeles' Flipper's Roller Disco Boogie Lounge in March 1981. Intently playing his guitar, Prince rocked a fierce two-piece suit, decorated with swirls of raspberry and purple on stage in 1985, around the time his album hit shelves. In a high-collared, ruffled white shirt, pearl-studded pastel jacket (and plenty of pink feathers), curly-haired -era Prince reigned on stage. Prince sported a white lace two-piece outfit while letting loose in performance at California's Fabulous Forum on Feb. 19, 1985. Reveling in asymmetry, Prince sported a black lace half-sleeve on his right arm and lets his left roam free while he performs at the Fabulous Forum on Feb. 19, 1985 in high-waisted black pants with a shining decorative belt, and most of his torso bared to the audience. With his hair cropped shorter, Prince wowed an L.A. crowd in a sleeveless shirt that bared his abs and matching skin-tight, button-dotted pants in 1986, -- the same year his album brought Hot 100 No. 1 single "Kiss" to fans' ears. A bit more reserved than usual, Prince wore a debonair light suit and tie on London's Wembley Arena on Aug. 14, 1986. A costume change at that same 1986 Wembley performance revealed that it was only a matter of time before Prince showed some more skin. Here he wore the black variant of the sleeveless torso-baring shirt and matching button-lined pants that we'd seen before. Prince always had a way of spicing up what could have been a mundane outfit. Instead a simple black shirt and white tailored pants, Prince took it a step further in contrasting polka dots as he performed in Philadelphia on October 18, 1988, a few months after releasing the album . In high-waisted white pants, with no shirt and a barely-there black vest, Prince let the wind breeze through his long hair onstage in 1990. A bearded Prince wore a gold two-piece outfit with a matching guitar to the MTV Video Music Awards on September 5, 1991. Viewers of the show got an unexpected eyeful when Prince turned tail and revealed the outfit's ass-less pants to the cameras. Singing in London on June 16, 1992, the year he changed his name to a symbol, a lightly-bearded Prince again turns to gold -- in this case a gold, form-fitting outfit with purple embellishments. Prince rocked a pajama-like green-and-blue striped suit with a few gold chains dangling from his neck, a megaphone, and shades completing the look in 1993. Also in 1993, Prince wore a torso-bearing blue and red rocks a pajama-like green and blue stripped suit with a few gold chains dangling from his neck, a megaphone, and shades completing the look. In a police cap adorned with face-obscuring chains -- and singing into a gun-shaped microphone -- Prince performs at that same Radio City show in New York. In a low-dropping V-neck white shirt and matching pants, Prince and his cane stroll into a VH1 performance on Sept. 3, 1994 in London. Wearing a short haircut, with some of the ends of his locks dyed, Prince sports a big loose white jacket and a purple lace two-piece outfit at the San Jose State Event Center in San Jose, California on April 19, 1997. Shades, a big coat and a checkered white shirt comprise the look Prince wears in 1998 in New York City, the year he released his "Crystal Ball" box set. The Artist stuns in a red ruffled two-piece sprayed with gold onstage in Paris in August 1998. Wearing a loose, shimmering gray sweater and matching pants, Prince makes his way into a June 1999 charity event. In blue leather and beaded braids, Prince hits the stage at the MTV Video Music Awards at Metropolitan Opera House in New York in September 1999. In a fluffy white sweater and yellow tinted shades, Prince hosts a New York City press conference on May 16, 2000 to announce details for Prince: A Celebration, a seven-day festival at his Paisley Park that June. Dapper in a red fedora and shirt and a pin-striped suit, Prince performs at the 19th annual Rock & Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel March 15, 2004. With a rugged goatee, a red and black sleeved flowing outfit, asymmetrical '80s shades and his trusty guitar, a permed Prince plays on July 2, 2004 at Essence Music Festival. Apparently, both the hair and the facial hair were a disguise. He was attempting to be a quiet opening act. The Purple One aptly wears a double-breasted suit and a solid gold shirt, tie and pocket square alongside Beyonce at the 46th Annual Grammy Award on Feb. 8th, 2004. Sporting a mustache and a soul patch, a hooded Prince goes all-white at the People's Choice Awards at the Pasadena Civic Auditorium on January 9, 2005. At the 77th Annual Oscars, Prince rocks a purple jacket and white wide-bottomed pants while presenting an award on Feb. 27, 2005 at the Kodak Theater in Hollywood. Prince goes simple here at the NAACP Image Awards in a black and white pullover and white pants on March 19, 2005 in Los Angeles. In an orange and blue-lined shirt and white pants, Prince performs at the Brit Awards on Feb. 15, 2006 in London. Prince wears a blood red shirt with a purple jacket and matching slacks during the Season 5 finale of "American Idol" on May 24, 2006 at the Kodak Theatre in Hollywood. With a beauty on his arm, Prince goes orange all over for his Super Bowl XLI Halftime press conference at the Miami Convention Center on Feb. 1, 2007 in Miami. Basking in adoration, Prince wears an aqua blue suit and orange shirt on stage at Super Bowl XLI on Feb. 4, 2007 at Dolphin Stadium in Miami. In a peach suit with a sky blue shirt underneath, Prince hits the 49th Annual Grammy stage on Feb. 11, 2007. Enjoying an All-Star basketball on Feb. 18, 2007 in Las Vegas, Prince goes all-black -- from his shoes, to his shiny jacket, to hit tilted hat. Performing at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, Prince wows the audience in a flowing white tunic featuring a beaded trim on April 26, 2008 in Indio, Calif. Prince accepts a BET Award Lifetime Achievement Award, wearing a shirt with a drawing on his chest and sky blue sleeves at The Shrine Auditorium on June 27, 2010 in Los Angeles. Dressed in dazzling gold and rocking out, it was at this same show that he invited Kim Kardashian onstage to dance before kicking her off because she refused to groove. In black sunglasses, a quiet black suit and gold shirt, Prince attends a Versace for H&M fashion show on November 8, 2011 in New York. In bright yellow pants and matching heels, a subdued yet colorful turtleneck top, Prince plays in Vegas on Sept. 22, 2012 at the  iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas.  FACEBOOK   TWITTER   EMAIL ME   PRINT   COMMENTS

Frank Micelotta/Getty Images

1988

Prince always had a way of spicing up what could have been a mundane outfit. Instead a simple black shirt and white tailored pants, Prince took it a step further in contrasting polka dots as he performed in Philadelphia on October 18, 1988, a few months after releasing the album Lovesexy.