Dolly Parton College Course Combines Music, History and Appalachia Pride
Dolly Parton College Course Combines Music, History and Appalachia Pride
The first thing you need to know is that this is no easy elective. If you want to learn about the country music superstar Dolly Parton, you’d better come prepared. A course called Dolly’s America at the University of Tennessee ’s main campus in Knoxville is devoted to the life story of Ms. Parton, who hails from nearby Sevier County in the eastern part of the state. But this is much more than a surface-level study of a popular musician, said Lynn Sacco, the associate professor who teaches the course. It’s a thesis seminar meant for history students in the honors program, and it’s meant to give students a new way of understanding Appalachia’s modern history and Ms. Parton’s role in it. “It’s really kind of a nerdy class,” Dr. Sacco said. The second thing you need to know is that for many natives of eastern Tennessee, Ms. Parton, 71, is known for much, much more than just music. She is an icon for a place that outsiders can sometimes underestimate, said Carson Hollingsworth, the student body president at the University of Tennessee Knoxville. Advertisement “I think there are some stereotypes associated with the area, especially in rural Appalachia,” he said. “I think it’s great that we have a figure like Dolly Parton who comes from the area and is able to shed light on it and be an ambassador.” Advertisement The course, which was taught for the first time last year and will be taught again in the fall, gained attention when Ms. Parton herself tweeted about it last week. From the girl voted in High School 'least likely to succeed' this sure is a blessing! https://t.co/3EnB8ixB4f  Through her representatives, Ms. Parton declined an interview. According to Dr. Sacco’s syllabus, the seminar looks at a history of the 20th century not from the vantage point of elites, but through the eyes of Ms. Parton, “a poor white girl born in midcentury Appalachia.” It has a wealth of reading materials, including Ms. Parton’s own 1994 book, “ Dolly: My Life and Other Unfinished Business ,” and a slew of contemporary articles from periodicals such as The Tennessee Magazine , The Knoxville News Sentinel and The New York Times . Their topics range from child labor in the early 20th century to the Kennedy-era Appalachian Regional Commission and modern economic anxiety in the region. Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. You are already subscribed to this email. View all New York Times newsletters. See Sample Manage Email Preferences Not you? Privacy Policy The syllabus also includes plenty of videos of historic footage from YouTube . Ms. Parton, born to a poor family in Sevier County in 1946, was only a child when she started singing at local television and radio stations. She moved to Nashville right after high school to pursue a music career. In 1974, she scored four number one hits on the Billboard country chart – including “ Jolene ” and “ I Will Always Love You ” — and she hasn’t stopped, winning awards, for singing, songwriting and acting, that include Kennedy Center Honors in 2006 and a Grammy lifetime achievement award in 2011. Dr. Sacco, who is from Chicago and moved to Tennessee in 2004, said she was struck by the ardor of Ms. Parton’s fan base in Tennessee. “She is beloved here,” she said. “If she would run for governor, no one would oppose her.” Ms. Parton’s Dollywood theme park, about an hour’s drive from the Knoxville campus, is a popular attraction in the region, pulling millions of visitors annually to the Smoky Mountains. “You want to feel like you’re doing something good,” Ms. Parton said to The Tennessean during a 2015 visit to the park. “I really feel proud as a citizen of this area, and just being a daughter of the hills here.” The university, in particular, has close ties to the country star: It awarded her an honorary doctoral degree in 2009. Advertisement During that ceremony, she took the stage in a sparkling, tasseled pink dress to perform songs and to give a commencement speech. “I’m very grateful for my life, but if I had but one wish for you, it would be for you to dream more,” she said. Then Ms. Parton changed into a tailor-made, figure-hugging black robe to accept her honorary degree. Ms. Parton is also known for her philanthropic work. Some call her “The Book Lady” for her program, called Imagination Library, which distributes free books through the mail to children. As recently as December, she hosted a three-hour telethon to raise millions of dollars after a wildfire raged through Sevier County , killing 14. Ms. Parton promised $1,000 a month , for up to six months, to families displaced by the blaze. “She did a lot of work with relief efforts here,” said Mr. Hollingsworth. “I’m not a big fan of country music, but I’m a big fan of her.” The university said 87 percent of its undergraduate population is from Tennessee. “Using pop culture as a way to talk about how to use history sources was actually the goal of the course,” Dr. Sacco said. “But the personal part is for students to see that history is not just about dead presidents. It’s one way for them to tie in a lot of personal feelings about coming from East Tennessee, from Appalachia.” A version of this article appears in print on April 21, 2017, on Page A21 of the with the headline: Honors Course: Dolly Parton’s America.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page.    SNAPSHOT

The course, which was taught for the first time last year and will be taught again in the fall, gained attention when Ms. Parton herself tweeted about it last week.

Through her representatives, Ms. Parton declined an interview.

According to Dr. Sacco’s syllabus, the seminar looks at a history of the 20th century not from the vantage point of elites, but through the eyes of Ms. Parton, “a poor white girl born in midcentury Appalachia.”

It has a wealth of reading materials, including Ms. Parton’s own 1994 book, “Dolly: My Life and Other Unfinished Business,” and a slew of contemporary articles from periodicals such as The Tennessee Magazine, The Knoxville News Sentinel and The New York Times. Their topics range from child labor in the early 20th century to the Kennedy-era Appalachian Regional Commission and modern economic anxiety in the region.

Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

The syllabus also includes plenty of videos of historic footage from YouTube.

Ms. Parton, born to a poor family in Sevier County in 1946, was only a child when she started singing at local television and radio stations. She moved to Nashville right after high school to pursue a music career. In 1974, she scored four number one hits on the Billboard country chart – including “Jolene” and “I Will Always Love You” — and she hasn’t stopped, winning awards, for singing, songwriting and acting, that include Kennedy Center Honors in 2006 and a Grammy lifetime achievement award in 2011.

Dr. Sacco, who is from Chicago and moved to Tennessee in 2004, said she was struck by the ardor of Ms. Parton’s fan base in Tennessee. “She is beloved here,” she said. “If she would run for governor, no one would oppose her.”

Ms. Parton’s Dollywood theme park, about an hour’s drive from the Knoxville campus, is a popular attraction in the region, pulling millions of visitors annually to the Smoky Mountains. “You want to feel like you’re doing something good,” Ms. Parton said to The Tennessean during a 2015 visit to the park. “I really feel proud as a citizen of this area, and just being a daughter of the hills here.”

The university, in particular, has close ties to the country star: It awarded her an honorary doctoral degree in 2009.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During that ceremony, she took the stage in a sparkling, tasseled pink dress to perform songs and to give a commencement speech. “I’m very grateful for my life, but if I had but one wish for you, it would be for you to dream more,” she said.

Then Ms. Parton changed into a tailor-made, figure-hugging black robe to accept her honorary degree.

Ms. Parton is also known for her philanthropic work. Some call her “The Book Lady” for her program, called Imagination Library, which distributes free books through the mail to children.

As recently as December, she hosted a three-hour telethon to raise millions of dollars after a wildfire raged through Sevier County, killing 14. Ms. Parton promised $1,000 a month, for up to six months, to families displaced by the blaze.

“She did a lot of work with relief efforts here,” said Mr. Hollingsworth. “I’m not a big fan of country music, but I’m a big fan of her.”

The university said 87 percent of its undergraduate population is from Tennessee. “Using pop culture as a way to talk about how to use history sources was actually the goal of the course,” Dr. Sacco said.

“But the personal part is for students to see that history is not just about dead presidents. It’s one way for them to tie in a lot of personal feelings about coming from East Tennessee, from Appalachia.”