Kendrick Lamar Announces The Damn Tour
Kendrick Lamar Announces The Damn Tour
After seeing Kendrick Lamar perform at Coachella last Sunday night, we speculated about what his performance could mean for a potential upcoming tour. From the setlist to the stage design, we broke down what a tour to promote his latest album, , could look and feel like. But as it turns out, we aren’t going to need to speculate about a Kendrick tour for very long, as early Monday morning the Compton rapper announced dates for The Damn Tour on Twitter. As of now, the tour includes 17 dates and is set to kick off in Phoenix, Arizona on July 12 before making stops in Houston, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Brooklyn, Washington, D.C., Boston, Toronto, and a handful of other major cities in the U.S. and Canada. The tour will conclude on August 6 in Los Angeles. Kendrick won’t be touring alone, either. In addition to taking his act across North America, Kendrick will also be bringing Travis Scott and D.R.A.M. along with him. You can check out the full schedule below: THE DAMN. TOUR pic.twitter.com/RK89UlBayi just hit a major milestone for Kendrick. The critically acclaimed album earned the best-selling chart debut of 2017 last week by moving more than 600,000 units, easily topping Drake’s , which moved just over 500,000 units in March. Unfortunately for fans, Kendrick has debunked rumors about him possibly releasing a second project at some point in the near future, but The Damn Tour announcement should be more than enough to help them get their minds off it. Stay tuned for information on when and where to purchase tickets for The Damn Tour.

After seeing Kendrick Lamar perform at Coachella last Sunday night, we speculated about what his performance could mean for a potential upcoming tour. From the setlist to the stage design, we broke down what a tour to promote his latest album, Damn, could look and feel like. But as it turns out, we aren’t going to need to speculate about a Kendrick tour for very long, as early Monday morning the Compton rapper announced dates for The Damn Tour on Twitter.

As of now, the tour includes 17 dates and is set to kick off in Phoenix, Arizona on July 12 before making stops in Houston, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Brooklyn, Washington, D.C., Boston, Toronto, and a handful of other major cities in the U.S. and Canada. The tour will conclude on August 6 in Los Angeles.

Kendrick won’t be touring alone, either. In addition to taking his act across North America, Kendrick will also be bringing Travis Scott and D.R.A.M. along with him. You can check out the full schedule below:

Damn just hit a major milestone for Kendrick. The critically acclaimed album earned the best-selling Billboard chart debut of 2017 last week by moving more than 600,000 units, easily topping Drake’s More Life, which moved just over 500,000 units in March. Unfortunately for fans, Kendrick has debunked rumors about him possibly releasing a second project at some point in the near future, but The Damn Tour announcement should be more than enough to help them get their minds off it.

Stay tuned for information on when and where to purchase tickets for The Damn Tour.