North Korea: Chinese President Xi Jinping asks for restraint during call with Donald Trump



North Korea: Chinese President Xi Jinping asks for restraint during call with Donald Trump

Updated

Chinese President Xi Jinping has called for all sides to exercise restraint when dealing with North Korea during a phone call with US President Donald Trump, as Japan conducts joint drills with a US aircraft carrier strike group headed for Korean waters.

Key points: Mr Xi told Mr Trump that all sides should avoid doing anything to worsen the tense situation

Japanese destroyers have joined the US carrier group for drills in the western Pacific

North Korea will celebrate the 85th anniversary of the foundation of its Korean People's Army tomorrow

The carrier group was sent by Mr Trump for exercises in waters off the Korean peninsula as a warning, amid growing fears North Korea could conduct another nuclear test soon in defiance of United Nations sanctions.

Angered by the approach of the US carrier group, a defiant North Korea said at the weekend it was ready to sink the USS Carl Vinson.

Two Japanese destroyers have already joined the carrier group for drills in the western Pacific, and South Korea has said it is also in talks about holding joint naval exercises.

But during his phone call with Mr Trump, Mr Xi said he hoped all relevant sides would exercise restraint and "avoid doing anything to worsen the tense situation on the peninsula", a statement from the Chinese foreign ministry said.

The nuclear issue can only be resolved quickly with all relevant countries pulling in the same direction, and China is willing to work with all parties, including the United States, to ensure peace, Mr Xi said.

The Trump administration has warned that all options, including a military strike, are "on the table" to halt North Korea's ambitions of developing a nuclear-tipped missile that could reach the US mainland.

The issue has gained added urgency as North Korea prepares to celebrate the 85th anniversary of the foundation of its Korean People's Army tomorrow.

It has marked similar events in the past with nuclear tests or missile launches.

Today's call was the second time Mr Xi and Mr Trump had spoken by telephone since meeting in Florida earlier this month.

Japan, South Korea brace for further action

Earlier, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe also spoke with Mr Trump and described the conversation as a "thorough exchange of views".

"We agreed to strongly demand that North Korea, which is repeating its provocation, show restraint," Mr Abe said.

"We will maintain close contact with the United States, keep a high level of vigilance and respond firmly."

Mr Abe also said he and Mr Trump agreed that China, North Korea's sole major ally, should play a large role in dealing with Pyongyang.

A Japanese official said the phone call between Mr Trump and Mr Abe was not prompted by any specific change in the situation.

The US Government has not specified where the carrier strike group is, but US Vice-President Mike Pence said on Saturday it would arrive "within days".

South Korean Defence Ministry spokesman Moon Sang-gyun gave no further details about the South's plans, other than saying Seoul was holding discussions with the US Navy.

"I can say the South Korean and US militaries are fully ready for North Korea's nuclear test," Mr Moon said.

South Korean and US officials have feared for some time that North Korea could soon carry out its sixth nuclear test.

Satellite imagery analysed by 38 North, a Washington-based North Korea monitoring project, found some activity under way at North Korea's Punggye-ri nuclear test site last week.

However, the group said it was unclear whether the site was in a "tactical pause" before another test or was carrying out normal operations.

Adding to the heightened tensions, North Korea detained a US citizen on Saturday as he attempted to leave the country.

Reuters/AP

Topics: world-politics, unrest-conflict-and-war, korea-democratic-people-s-republic-of, korea-republic-of, japan, pacific, asia, china, united-states

First posted