Perrigo CEO Faces Mounting Pressure as Investors Sound Alarms
Perrigo CEO Faces Mounting Pressure as Investors Sound Alarms
Biography Vipal Monga @vipalmonga Google+ vipal.monga@wsj.com John Hendrickson



       faces a daunting challenge: One year into his tenure as chief executive of drugmaker Perrigo   PRGO  , he must convince investors he has a handle on the company’s wobbly business. Perrigo shares peaked at $203.69 two years ago, when the maker of store-brand cold and allergy medications was among the many highflying pharmaceuticals companies embroiled in a merger frenzy. Since that peak, the stock has lost roughly two-thirds of its value, as investors fret about missed earnings projections and management turmoil. Shares closed Friday at $66.43. Activist investor Starboard Value LP is applying pressure as well. As one of the largest shareholders of Dublin-based Perrigo, it has put three directors on the board , and will nominate two more independent directors later. Jeff Smith, Starboard’s founder, prodded the company to sell assets and undo much of its expansion from the past decade. “They’re in a tough spot,” said Randall Stanicky, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. The company may become more efficient by selling off units, he said, but it would also lose revenue and its stock could continue to drop. “It’s a bit of a conundrum.” Mr. Hendrickson, 54 years old, joined Perrigo as an engineer in 1989. As a rising executive, he gained a reputation as the type of manager who knows the name of every worker on the factory floor. But as CEO, he has struggled to right a 130 year-old business careening between crises. “The Perrigo management team and board decline to comment as a result of being in a previously disclosed quiet period,” said a company spokesman. Perrigo is in a quiet period until it discloses its 10K annual report. Mr. Hendrickson took control of the company’s management after former CEO Joe Papa stunned investors and quit to join  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International  last year. Mr. Papa benefited from rising drug prices and used an acquisition-focused strategy to increase Perrigo’s stock price by roughly seven times during his decade at the firm. But only five months after persuading shareholders to turn down a takeover offer worth more than $26 billion from Mylan NV in November 2015, Mr. Papa resigned. To thwart Mylan, Mr. Papa promised an earnings and growth surge that never materialized, souring investors on the stock . The market today values Perrigo under $10 billion, less than half Mylan’s offer. Mr. Hendrickson didn’t get much of a honeymoon as CEO. Starboard put his feet to the fire less than five months into his tenure. “Although we recognize you are new to the CEO role and hope you will have fresh ideas, we also know that you have been at Perrigo for approximately 27 years, and, to date, no new plans have been announced for a meaningful change in strategic direction or operational excellence,” wrote Mr. Smith in a September letter to Mr. Hendrickson. Starboard didn’t respond to requests for comment. Mr. Hendrickson is contending with disappointing results from Mr. Papa’s last major acquisition, the roughly $4.5 billion purchase in March 2015 of Omega Pharma Invest NV, a Belgium-based drugmaker that expanded Perrigo’s European consumer reach. Meanwhile, the sales from the generic drug business, which Mr. Papa grew during his decadelong tenure, have weakened as competition causes drug prices to fall. Amid those difficulties, Perrigo cut earnings projections three times last year and put a share buyback on hold to pay down debt. The company also lost key executives, including 



      Doug Boothe, 



       head of the generics business, who left in July, and former finance chief 



      Judy Brown, 



       who resigned at the end of February to take a finance job at biotech giant Amgen   The soft-spoken Mr. Hendrickson, who labeled himself “action oriented” in his first earnings call as CEO, has tried to quickly stabilize the company. He fired the Omega business head, 



      Marc Coucke, 



       began a strategic review of the generics business, announced a layoff of 750 employees, and took Starboard’s advice in selling Perrigo’s rights to the royalty stream from the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri. But investors’ doubts persist. “Management needs to execute, that’s the key,” said David Hackfort, portfolio manager at North Star Asset Management, which owns almost 100,000 Perrigo shares. “We’ll gain confidence depending on how they do.” Perrigo’s $2.2 billion sale in March to Royalty Pharma of the Tysabri royalties —worth $2.85 billion if Tysabri sales reach certain levels—disappointed some investors and analysts, who felt the company could have received more for the asset. The company’s stock lost ground the day the deal was announced. That deal announcement was also tarnished when Perrigo’s auditor, Ernst & Young, demanded revisions to the company’s accounting for the royalty. The surprise intervention caused Perrigo to delay its 10K report, bolstering the impression that the company didn’t have a good grip on its numbers. “We remain committed to providing timely, accurate and transparent financial reporting,” said Mr. Hendrickson at the time. At Starboard’s urging, the company is now reviewing its generic drugs business. Although Mr. Hendrickson and Perrigo’s board haven’t made any decision to sell, any plan to unload the business must take into account the complicated process of unwinding the unit’s supply chain and manufacturing from the other consumer drug business. For all the time Mr. Hendrickson has spent dealing with Mr. Papa’s legacy, he hasn’t yet made his mark on the company, said David Maris, a Wells Fargo analyst. “He hasn’t articulated a clear strategy,” said Mr. Maris. “After a year on the job, he can no longer blame the last guy.”  Vipal Monga at vipal.monga@wsj.com     Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ   Text Size Regular Medium Large   Google+ Print  Most Popular Videos   Star Cars of the Shanghai Auto Show 2017    French Election: Macron and Le Pen Through to Final Round    Airlines Boosting First Class, and More    Trump Approval Rating Slides    Opinion Journal: The Climate Change Debates You Never Hear About  Most Popular Articles      Disapproval of Trump Grows in Latest Poll        North Korea Arrests U.S. Citizen        Brick-and-Mortar Stores Are Shuttering at a Record Pace        Once-Flush Startups Struggle to Stay Alive        French Presidential Runoff Heralds New Political Era

CEO John Hendrickson, shown last year, joined Perrigo as an engineer in 1989. Photo: Amir Cohen/REUTERS

John Hendrickson faces a daunting challenge: One year into his tenure as chief executive of drugmaker Perrigo Co. PRGO -0.49% , he must convince investors he has a handle on the company’s wobbly business.

Perrigo shares peaked at $203.69 two years ago, when the maker of store-brand cold and allergy medications was among the many highflying pharmaceuticals companies embroiled in a merger frenzy. Since that peak, the stock has lost roughly two-thirds of its value, as investors fret about missed earnings projections and management turmoil. Shares closed Friday at $66.43.

Activist investor Starboard Value LP is applying pressure as well. As one of the largest shareholders of Dublin-based Perrigo, it has put three directors on the board, and will nominate two more independent directors later. Jeff Smith, Starboard’s founder, prodded the company to sell assets and undo much of its expansion from the past decade.

“They’re in a tough spot,” said Randall Stanicky, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. The company may become more efficient by selling off units, he said, but it would also lose revenue and its stock could continue to drop. “It’s a bit of a conundrum.”

Mr. Hendrickson, 54 years old, joined Perrigo as an engineer in 1989. As a rising executive, he gained a reputation as the type of manager who knows the name of every worker on the factory floor. But as CEO, he has struggled to right a 130 year-old business careening between crises.

“The Perrigo management team and board decline to comment as a result of being in a previously disclosed quiet period,” said a company spokesman. Perrigo is in a quiet period until it discloses its 10K annual report.

Stephanie Stamm

Mr. Hendrickson took control of the company’s management after former CEO Joe Papa stunned investors and quit to join Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. last year. Mr. Papa benefited from rising drug prices and used an acquisition-focused strategy to increase Perrigo’s stock price by roughly seven times during his decade at the firm.

But only five months after persuading shareholders to turn down a takeover offer worth more than $26 billion from Mylan NV in November 2015, Mr. Papa resigned. To thwart Mylan, Mr. Papa promised an earnings and growth surge that never materialized, souring investors on the stock. The market today values Perrigo under $10 billion, less than half Mylan’s offer.

Mr. Hendrickson didn’t get much of a honeymoon as CEO. Starboard put his feet to the fire less than five months into his tenure.

“Although we recognize you are new to the CEO role and hope you will have fresh ideas, we also know that you have been at Perrigo for approximately 27 years, and, to date, no new plans have been announced for a meaningful change in strategic direction or operational excellence,” wrote Mr. Smith in a September letter to Mr. Hendrickson.

Starboard didn’t respond to requests for comment.

Mr. Hendrickson is contending with disappointing results from Mr. Papa’s last major acquisition, the roughly $4.5 billion purchase in March 2015 of Omega Pharma Invest NV, a Belgium-based drugmaker that expanded Perrigo’s European consumer reach. Meanwhile, the sales from the generic drug business, which Mr. Papa grew during his decadelong tenure, have weakened as competition causes drug prices to fall.

Amid those difficulties, Perrigo cut earnings projections three times last year and put a share buyback on hold to pay down debt.

The company also lost key executives, including Doug Boothe, head of the generics business, who left in July, and former finance chief Judy Brown, who resigned at the end of February to take a finance job at biotech giant Amgen Inc.

The soft-spoken Mr. Hendrickson, who labeled himself “action oriented” in his first earnings call as CEO, has tried to quickly stabilize the company. He fired the Omega business head, Marc Coucke, began a strategic review of the generics business, announced a layoff of 750 employees, and took Starboard’s advice in selling Perrigo’s rights to the royalty stream from the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri.

But investors’ doubts persist.

“Management needs to execute, that’s the key,” said David Hackfort, portfolio manager at North Star Asset Management, which owns almost 100,000 Perrigo shares. “We’ll gain confidence depending on how they do.”

Perrigo’s $2.2 billion sale in March to Royalty Pharma of the Tysabri royalties—worth $2.85 billion if Tysabri sales reach certain levels—disappointed some investors and analysts, who felt the company could have received more for the asset. The company’s stock lost ground the day the deal was announced.

That deal announcement was also tarnished when Perrigo’s auditor, Ernst & Young, demanded revisions to the company’s accounting for the royalty. The surprise intervention caused Perrigo to delay its 10K report, bolstering the impression that the company didn’t have a good grip on its numbers.

“We remain committed to providing timely, accurate and transparent financial reporting,” said Mr. Hendrickson at the time.

At Starboard’s urging, the company is now reviewing its generic drugs business. Although Mr. Hendrickson and Perrigo’s board haven’t made any decision to sell, any plan to unload the business must take into account the complicated process of unwinding the unit’s supply chain and manufacturing from the other consumer drug business.

For all the time Mr. Hendrickson has spent dealing with Mr. Papa’s legacy, he hasn’t yet made his mark on the company, said David Maris, a Wells Fargo analyst.

“He hasn’t articulated a clear strategy,” said Mr. Maris. “After a year on the job, he can no longer blame the last guy.”

Write to Vipal Monga at vipal.monga@wsj.com