South West voters: Tell us what issues will decide this election

and    For the last six years, The Guardian’s Anywhere But Westminster video series has chronicled huge political changes in the UK, from where the action has really happened: not the centres of power, but in our communities. From the Scottish independence referendum of 2014, through Labour’s watershed defeat in 2015 and on to Brexit, we’ve shone light on the people and places that have driven the news, and got a better sense of what’s been happening than most pollsters and pundits. With another General Election now looming, we’re going back on the road. But as ever, we want our itinerary to be shaped by people across the country. So, please tell us: at such a huge juncture for the UK , where should we go, what should we cover, and who should we speak to? Share your views and experiences We start our election series on Monday . If you live there or anywhere else in the UK, please get in touch by filling in the form below and tell us what issues will decide this election.  General election 2017   Anywhere but Westminster

The Guardian’s Anywhere but Westminster video series is back on the road to find out which issues people in the UK most care about - and they want your help along the way

For the last six years, The Guardian’s Anywhere But Westminster video series has chronicled huge political changes in the UK, from where the action has really happened: not the centres of power, but in our communities. From the Scottish independence referendum of 2014, through Labour’s watershed defeat in 2015 and on to Brexit, we’ve shone light on the people and places that have driven the news, and got a better sense of what’s been happening than most pollsters and pundits.

With another General Election now looming, we’re going back on the road. But as ever, we want our itinerary to be shaped by people across the country. So, please tell us: at such a huge juncture for the UK , where should we go, what should we cover, and who should we speak to?

Share your views and experiences

We start our election series on Monday in the South West, travelling from Cornwall to Bristol. If you live there or anywhere else in the UK, please get in touch by filling in the form below and tell us what issues will decide this election.

Your responses are secure as the form is encrypted and only the Guardian has access to your contributions.