6 Morning Rituals That Will Make You Productive All Day
6 Morning Rituals That Will Make You Productive All Day
{{contrib_block.display_author.name}}  Brian Scudamore       Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own. Full profile →'"> The author is a Forbes contributor. The opinions expressed are those of the writer. If you're running your own business or you're career-driven, it’s easy to burn the candle at both ends and find yourself in a constant state of exhaustion. I used to find it difficult to get out of bed in the mornings, hitting “snooze” repeatedly before rushing out the door to start a 12-hour day. But now that I’ve made some tweaks to my routine, I jump out of bed at 5:55am on the dot — and I’ve never felt more energized and productive. O2E Brands. Being productive starts when you wake up. I’m not the only entrepreneur who knows the power of an early start: Tim Ferriss , Oprah and Apple’s Tim Cook all begin their days before sunrise. If you’re looking to make the most of those key hours before you hit the office, try out a few of these morning routines for yourself. Why have a super-precise wake-up time? There’s something psychological about being specific that tells your brain to pay attention - it’s the same reason we do our company morning huddle at 10:55 each morning. I used to set my alarm for 6:00am, changing the wake-up call by a few minutes forward or back every day and hitting snooze (a lot). Now I don’t compromise: it’s set for 5:55, and the specific routine is ingrained in my psyche, forcing me out of bed on time. I head straight from bed to the coffee maker. While my espresso is brewing, I take a moment to set my intention for the day. Writing down your goals makes you significantly more likely to achieve them and I firmly believe that what gets measured, gets done. When I log an intention, I have successful, happy days. On the days I don’t, it’s harder to focus. I use my iPhone notepad to jot down one goal (just one!) to accomplish in the next 24 hours. These intentions are always simple and attainable. For example, today it was “hit the gym”; other times it might have to do with how I eat. Though these are related to personal health, taking care of myself ultimately means taking care of my business. Print Send Us Feedback Report Corrections Reprints & Permissions Trending on {{channel_name}}

If you're running your own business or you're career-driven, it’s easy to burn the candle at both ends and find yourself in a constant state of exhaustion. I used to find it difficult to get out of bed in the mornings, hitting “snooze” repeatedly before rushing out the door to start a 12-hour day. But now that I’ve made some tweaks to my routine, I jump out of bed at 5:55am on the dot — and I’ve never felt more energized and productive.

O2E Brands.

I’m not the only entrepreneur who knows the power of an early start: Tim Ferriss, Oprah and Apple’s Tim Cook all begin their days before sunrise. If you’re looking to make the most of those key hours before you hit the office, try out a few of these morning routines for yourself.

1. Set Your Alarm with Precision

Why have a super-precise wake-up time? There’s something psychological about being specific that tells your brain to pay attention - it’s the same reason we do our company morning huddle at 10:55 each morning. I used to set my alarm for around 6:00am, changing the wake-up call by a few minutes forward or back every day and hitting snooze (a lot). Now I don’t compromise: it’s set for 5:55, and the specific routine is ingrained in my psyche, forcing me out of bed on time.

2. Write Down 1 Daily Intention

I head straight from bed to the coffee maker. While my espresso is brewing, I take a moment to set my intention for the day. Writing down your goals makes you significantly more likely to achieve them and I firmly believe that what gets measured, gets done. When I log an intention, I have successful, happy days. On the days I don’t, it’s harder to focus.

I use my iPhone notepad to jot down one goal (just one!) to accomplish in the next 24 hours. These intentions are always simple and attainable. For example, today it was “hit the gym”; other times it might have to do with how I eat. Though these are related to personal health, taking care of myself ultimately means taking care of my business.