Macron and Le Pen through to run-off
Macron and Le Pen through to run-off - BBC News
French right-wing daily Le Figaro deplores the failure of the centre-right to reach the second round. Ex-Prime Minister François Fillon was "wiped out", it writes. "The impossible has happened. The right,
which has thrashed the Socialists in all elections in the past
five years, the right, whose ideas and values have never been
so deeply preponderant inside the country, this right
whose victory seemed inevitable, was wiped out yesterday," it lamented. It remains to be seen how the next president will govern, however, as Mr Fillon's Republicans and the rival Socialists are the biggest groups in parliament. So the June parliamentary election could deliver another shock to French politics. It will be a huge challenge for either Mr Macron or Ms Le Pen to get enough of their candidates elected to parliament. Read more about these links. Liberation, a left-wing daily, says Mr Macron is in a position to forge a new centrist, democratic bloc in French politics - neither left nor right. He could become like a US Democrat president, a commentary in the paper says. But he was also urged by Barack Obama on Thursday to "fight until the last moment of the campaign", the paper reports. That appears to be a veiled reference to Hillary Clinton's defeat in the US presidential election despite most observers expecting her to win. Read more about these links. The left-leaning daily Le Monde warns Emmanuel Macron in an editorial that he must still work hard to woo the many disillusioned voters. The vote has been a shock to the French political system, it says, noting that the far-right National Front (FN) got more than 20% of votes for the first time in a presidential election. Mr Macron also needs to take stock of the degree of social protest reflected in the strong vote for far-left candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon, Le Monde says. Read more about these links. Eric Maurice, a political analyst at the euobserver website, predicts that the decisive second round will be a contest between the EU and the far-right. He says it will amount to a referendum. Mr Macron, unlike Ms Le Pen, is a firm believer in the European project. "The prospect of Le Pen being beaten and the wave of anti-EU forces being contained in the bloc’s second biggest country sent sighs of relief in Europe," Maurice writes. Read our profile of Emmanuel Macron , charting his meteoric rise. Read more about these links. Mr Macron's win in the first round sent European shares surging on Monday and the euro briefly reached five-month peaks, Reuters news agency reports. There appears to be market relief that another Brexit-like
shock is not on the cards. The pan-European STOXX 50
index rose 3%, France's CAC40 almost 4% and bank stocks more than 6%. The STOXX Europe 600 index was also up more than 1.6%. Read more about these links. The results map below shows that Mr Macron (pink) dominated regions in the west and part of central France. Ms Le Pen (navy blue) polled strongly in the north-east and south-east. The map has just been released by the interior ministry. Read more about these links. Today Programme BBC Radio 4 Jérôme Rivière, a top adviser to Marine Le Pen, tells the BBC that it is now a battle between a pro-EU "open borders" candidate - Mr Macron - and Ms Le Pen, who speaks of restoring French sovereignty. He told the BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "People are fed up... Macron is not talking about France, but about Europe only. "We don’t like the EU, we want to gain our sovereignty back... all we have been saying is we want to go back to this Europe of nations." He said the National Front would "protect our citizens from the massive flow of immigration, from the globalised economy". "France has been hit very drastically, because of people that took advantage of open borders." Read a full profile of Ms Le Pen . Read more about these links. After the result of the vote became clear on Sunday night clashes erupted in Paris between "anti-fascist" protesters and police. BFMTV reports 29 arrests, and minor injuries to six police officers and three protesters. The leftist "anti-fascist" and "anti-capitalist" protesters were opposed to both Mr Macron and Ms Le Pen. Read more about these links. The French Interior Ministry has published the first-round results, showing a turnout of 78.69% - that is, 36.4m voters. The percentages based on an almost complete count of the vote are: Macron - 23.8% Le Pen - 21.5% Fillon - 19.9% Mélenchon - 19.6% Read more about these links. Defeated first-round candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon has yet to endorse Emmanuel Macron, as his other rivals have done - prompting comment from political reporters. Read more about these links. Marine Le Pen successfully attracted many younger voters in depressed parts of France, hit by the impact of globalisation, says a leading French journalist and blogger, Anne-Elisabeth Moutet. Speaking on BBC World TV, she said many of those voters in struggling "rust belt" areas used to vote for the left, including the Communists. "They are like the Trump and Brexit voters - they feel that globalisation has treated them very badly," she said. Those younger voters, she pointed out, have little awareness of the earlier history of Ms Le Pen's far-right National Front (FN). Ms Le Pen's father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, has convictions for Holocaust denial. Read more about these links. Sylvie Goulard, an MEP and adviser to Emmanuel Macron, has
been speaking to BBC Radio 4’s Today programme. Asked if, when things began, she thought Mr Macron would be
the top contender at this stage, she said: “to be honest, no.” “But we had the feeling that something new was absolutely necessary.
The parties – the traditional ones – brought us where we are… we needed,
desperately, something else.” “At the beginning, Emmanuel was still at the government, but
everyone knew he was not feeling at ease at all, because he could not have the
impact he wanted.” And when asked if the young candidate would really be the reformist
he promises to be, she said: "Well, we hope – and I trust him. “And not only France, but we really want to change Europe.
We are at a turning point – after Trump’s election, with Putin, with Erdogan –
it’s a global challenge. “Either we stick to unilateral co-operation of states, or we
go back to nationalism that will bring us nowhere.” Read more about these links. Welcome to our live coverage of the French presidential election, a vote which saw the political establishment candidates knocked out. Two - Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen - will fight the decisive second round on 7 May. The main developments so far: Liberal centrist Emmanuel Macron won with 23.9% of the vote, slightly 
ahead of far-right National Front (FN) leader Marine Le Pen with 21.4%, with nearly all votes counted Mr Macron pledged to unite "patriots" behind his agenda to renew French politics 
and modernise the country, against Ms Le Pen and "the threat of nationalists" Conservative former Prime Minister François Fillon was third, with 19.9%, narrowly ahead of far-left contender Jean-Luc Mélenchon on 19.6% Turnout was forecast to be high, at nearly 78% Opinion polls suggest that Mr Macron can beat Ms Le Pen in the second round by a wide margin Read more about these links. Le Monde speaks of a new split in French society, after Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen defeated the traditional centre-left and centre-right blocks in the election. An editorial in the left-leaning daily says the first-round result pits pro-EU, pro-business voters - Mr Macron's supporters - against protectionist, nationalist voters hostile to globalisation, who backed Ms Le Pen. It is different from the old left-right divide. And voting trends in rural areas were also markedly different from the cities, it says. The backlash against globalisation was reflected in the strong anti-establishment vote. Read more about these links. French TV channel BFMTV's round-up of the French front pages on Monday morning, with all newspapers focusing on the left-right battle ahead in the second round - without either of the traditional political parties, the Republicans or the Socialists. Read more about these links. With 97% of votes counted, the two front-runners have maintained their shares of the ballot. Read more about these links. Thomas Fessy BBC News, Paris Emmanuel Macron is pragmatic - he says he wants to create a new kind of politics, breaking down the divisions between the traditional left and right. His manifesto blends liberal economic reforms with left-leaning policies on social issues. He wants to make it easier for companies to hire and fire staff, to lower taxes on businesses and extend the 35-hour week. Mr Macron also wants to extend unemployment benefits to more people, including the self-employed, to make education a top priority and to encourage a shift to renewable energy. He presents himself as an optimistic and pro-European candidate who wants to push for deeper integration. Political analysts have compared him to former UK Prime Minister Tony Blair but his critics say he's all talk and no policies. At 39, Emmanuel Macron could become France's youngest president, but whether he could then secure a majority in parliament remains unclear.   He has promised to select candidates from outside the political system - half of them women - for parliamentary elections in June. Read more about these links. Jean-Marie Le Pen, the former president of the Front National and Marine Le Pen's father, held an election night gathering at his Montretout estate in Paris's western suburbs. He told reporters that he was not jealous of his daughter's success. "Jealous? Me?" he said, according to French news site 20 Minutes . Read more about these links. The value of the euro jumped to a five-month high, following news of Emmanuel Macron's election success. In Asia, the euro was up 2% to its highest level since mid-November. Dean Turner, economist at UBS Wealth Management, said: There will be some relief among investors that a mainstream candidate made it through to the second round.As things stand, Macron is on course to be the next French president, so it is likely that we see a recovery in risk appetite toward French and other European markets." Markets react to French result Read more about these links. Front National supporters in the south of France watched the election coverage with great anticipation. Stephane Ravier, mayor of a section of Marseille, was among them, and told the BBC how the party has changed. Read more about these links. Hugh Schofield BBC News, Paris France is entering uncharted political water - and it is not because Marine Le Pen is in the final round of the presidential election. It is because the next head of state is almost certain to be Emmanuel Macron. Let us remind ourselves how preposterous this state of affairs would have seemed just a few months ago. Here was a man who, at 39, had the gall to walk out of government - turning his back on his protector, President François Hollande - and set up his own political "movement". He had no experience of electoral politics. He had no party backing. He had none of the organisational support of the Socialists, the Republicans or even the Front National. And yet somehow Emmanuel Macron read the zeitgeist. He found an untapped reservoir of support among the young, the disillusioned-but-optimistic, the anti-cynics. Read more about these links. Bild's front page sees Emmanuel Macron's lead in the first round as allowing Europe to breathe a sigh of relief Read more about these links. The number of votes counted has reached 91% and Emmanuel Macron's margin of victory is now 23.5% to 22.08%. François Fillon is in third with 19.74% and far-left Jean-Luc Mélenchon on 19.47%. The French TV projection published hours earlier by Ipsos/Sopros Steria (below) suggested Mr Macron's final margin would be around 2%. Read more about these links. The chairman of the foreign relations committee of the Russian Lower House, Konstantin Kosachev, voiced support for Marine Le Pen in a Facebook post. Hope dies last, he says. Read more about these links. James Reynolds BBC News, Paris At times,
Emmanuel Macron’s campaign HQ felt like an extremely polite rave. During the
long wait for the candidate to come and speak, loudspeakers played techno
music. Volunteers holding French flags swayed and some chanted “Macron
President". Most crammed towards the front to get a better look at their
candidate. Mr Macron himself came on stage to cheers. But the campaign supporters inside
the arena were not his main audience. His victory speech was a
pre-presidential address, directed towards the rest of the country that did
not vote for him. He was sober, sombre, and emotional only when he spoke of his
wife’s support. After he left, the crowd drifted away. The DJ played Michael
Jackson and Earth, Wind & Fire. In the street at night, as I waited to head
back into central Paris, I saw no celebrations, no-one honking their car horns.
There is still a second round to fight. Read more about these links. With just over 6% of the vote, Benoît Hamon's score is the worst achieved by a centre-left candidate since 1969. And like him the Socialist candidate in that year, Gaston Deferre, finished far behind a hard-left candidate - Communist Jacques Duclos - who won 21% in the first round. The fact that Mr Hamon finished only marginally ahead of Nicolas Dupont-Aignan, a Eurosceptic outsider, is a humiliation for the Socialists who have spent the past five years running the country. Read more about these links. She may have qualified for the second round but Le Monde commentator Olivier Faye warns that her failure to win the first round has complicated the task she faces on 7 May. He says she may have done better than she did in 2012, when she polled 17.9% of the vote, and better than her father in 2002, but for several years the opinion polls suggested she would win this first round, and she hasn't. Read more about these links. Read more about these links. It is the first time since France's presidential system was introduced in 1958 that neither the centre-right nor the socialist left make the second round  of a presidential election. It is also the best-ever score for a far-right party, with more than 7m votes. Read more about these links. First editions have been published in France and the UK. The Guardian says today's result "redraws the French political divide", while The Times suggests that the French "elite" have been "humiliated". The headline in France's Le Figaro, "Knock-out for the Right", focuses on the failure of François Fillon. Libération's headline "A step away" points out that Emmanuel Macron is closing in on the presidency. Read more about these links. The euro jumped 2% in early trading in Asia as the first round result became clear. The markets appear to be relieved that Emmanuel Macron, a mainstream candidate, is through to the run-off, rather than left-wing firebrand Jean-Luc Mélenchon. You can read more here. Read more about these links. With 78% of the vote counted, the centrist candidate has moved ahead of Marine Le Pen. That is because the results are coming through from the big cities, where Emmanuel Macron has greater support than his far-right rival. Here are the latest results from the interior ministry: Macron 23.23% Le Pen 22.83% Fillon 19.75% Mélenchon 18.92% Hamon 6.06% Read more about these links. Read more about these links. Left-wing demonstrators have taken to the streets of several cities, including Nantes, in western France, and the centre of Paris. One organiser told news agency AFP
"we came to protest against the masquerade of this election". The hashtag #NuitDesBarricades ("night of barricades") is trending on Twitter. Protesters in Nantes lit flares and carried banners condemning both run-off candidates: "Not a banker, nor a racist." Read more about these links. Emmanuel Macron founded En Marche! (On the move) only a year ago and now he will fight the National Front's Marine Le Pen for the presidency on 7 May. So who is he? An ex-banker who has never stood for election before, he was an adviser to outgoing Socialist President Francois Hollande, and then the economy minister As part of a deregulation drive, he allowed shops to open for longer on Sundays as well as championing digital start-ups He resigned from the government to contest the presidency as head of his own centrist movement What does he want? Unify France's complex pension system, made up of 35 different public schemes Cut 120,000 public-sector jobs and bring down the budget deficit Big cut in corporation tax and more leeway for companies to renegotiate 35-hour week Send more teachers to deprived areas, ban mobile phone use in schools for under-15s A strong believer in the EU, he is calling for closer economic co-operation between eurozone countries. You can read more about him here: Emmanuel Macron's meteoric rise Read more about these links. Marine Le Pen will face Emmanuel Macron on 7 May, the first time the National Front has reached a presidential run-off since 2002, when her father was heavily defeated by Jacques Chirac. So who is she? She's been the leader of the party since 2011 when she took over from her father She led the party to big electoral gains in regional elections in 2015 She's been a front-runner for most of the presidential campaign but is not expected to win the second round She has softened the FN's far-right stance on many issues but remains hardline on immigration She is an MEP for north-west France What does she want? Negotiation with Brussels on a new EU, followed by a referendum "Automatic" expulsion of illegal immigrants Legal immigration cut to 10,000 per year following a total moratorium "Extremist" mosques closed and priority to French nationals in social housing Retirement age fixed at 60 and 35-hour week assured You can read more about Marine Le Pen's story here: Hugh Schofield: Is France's National Front leader far-right? Read more about these links. Three detained near Place de la Bastille as left-wing activists clash with security forces, France 2 reports Read more about these links. Only one candidate, Jean-Luc Mélenchon has refused to acknowledge that the result is clear. With more than two-thirds of the votes counted, the interior ministry says Marine Le Pen is in the lead with 23.42%, Emmanuel Macron is close behind with 22.93%, François Fillon has 19.69% and Mr Mélenchon is on 18.61%. The pollsters predict Mr Macron will finish first because counting is still going on in the big cities. Read more about these links. Footage has emerged of anti-National Front demonstrators clashing with riot police in the Bastille area of Paris, as Sunday's presidential election result became clear. Read more about these links. German Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesman tweets: "It's good that Emmanuel Macron was successful with his course for a strong 
EU and social market economy. All the best for the next two weeks."  The German leader met Mr Macron last month in Berlin. Read more about these links.

screenshot

French right-wing daily Le Figaro deplores the failure of the centre-right to reach the second round. Ex-Prime Minister François Fillon was "wiped out", it writes.

"The impossible has happened. The right, which has thrashed the Socialists in all elections in the past five years, the right, whose ideas and values have never been so deeply preponderant inside the country, this right whose victory seemed inevitable, was wiped out yesterday," it lamented.

It remains to be seen how the next president will govern, however, as Mr Fillon's Republicans and the rival Socialists are the biggest groups in parliament.

So the June parliamentary election could deliver another shock to French politics.

It will be a huge challenge for either Mr Macron or Ms Le Pen to get enough of their candidates elected to parliament.