Emmanuel Macron: Don't underestimate youth and inexperience, Bernard-Henri Levy says



Emmanuel Macron: Don't underestimate youth and inexperience, Bernard-Henri Levy says

Updated

Emmanuel Macron's progression into the final round of the French election is good news for France, author and commentator Bernard-Henri Levy says.

Mr Macron will face off against the far-right National Front leader Marine Le Pen.

The leader of France's centrist En March! party, who is 39-years-old and who only formed his party a year ago, is seen as most likely to win the presidential vote despite much having been made of his youth and perceived inexperience.

But Mr Levy likened the political newcomer to former US president Barack Obama.

"[Mr Macron] was five years, side-by-side with president [Francois] Hollande. He was his main adviser, then he was the holder of the key to the ministry of finance. So he has experience," he said.

"What is true is that he's young. Youth can be a defect and can be a quality. Youth can be a handicap and can be a virtue. This is the crossroad where we are.

"When Barack Obama came out of nowhere in America, he was just senator in the state of Illinois … he was in the same position — not so much experience, very young — his main quality was his charisma and it was one of the good pages of the recent history of America."

Mr Levy, a leader of the 1970s New Philosophers movement, praised Mr Macron for not being a career politician.

"He's not making a sort of lifetime achievement, he decided to run for office because he had the genuine feeling that the political system in France was blocked, that we have reached an end of an era, that the way in which left and right were seen was obsolete, was too old," he said.

"There is something really genuine in the way of Mr Macron."

Le Pen victory 'terrible' for France: Levy

On the other hand, Mr Levy warned that a Le Pen victory would lead to a disruptive future for France.

"If it were Marine Le Pen the future would be terrible for the civil peace. She would launch the French citizens against each other," he said.

"It would be terrible for the prosperity of the country because her program would lead inevitably to the ruin of [those who] have little.

"It would be a ruin for the foreign policy of France and for its image. Under Marine Le Pen France would have a very hard and dark time."

Topics: world-politics, france

First posted