Cheaper Tickets, LCD Screens, Bio-Toilets And Vending Machines On The Upcoming Utkrisht Double-Decker AC Yatri Trains
Cheaper Tickets, LCD Screens And Bio-Toilets On Upcoming Utkrisht Double-Decker AC Yatri Trains
Cheaper Tickets, LCD Screens, Bio-Toilets And Vending Machines On The Upcoming Utkrisht Double-Decker AC Yatri Trains The Indian Railways is gearing up to launch the Utkrisht Double-Decker AC Yatri (Uday) Express, a special class service for overnight journey that will ply on high-demand routes in July. The train will be equipped with reclining chairs and will have 120-seater AC coach. It will also have large automatic food and tea/cold drink vending machines for passengers. The train will have the facility for providing pre-cooked hot food from food vending boxes in each coach. It will also boast of large LCD screens in every coach with Wi- Fi speaker system. Uday service will ply on high-demand routes like Delhi- Lucknow and the fare will be lower than that of 3AC class in regular mail/express trains. The USP of the double-decker Uday is providing better passenger amenities in less than 3AC fare, said a senior Railway Ministry official. Since the train will have 40% more carrying capacity than other trains, it will help the public transporter clear the rush in high-demand routes. Though it will not have sleeper berths despite being an overnight service, measures have been taken to make the journey comfortable with many added facilities, the official said.

The Indian Railways is gearing up to launch the Utkrisht Double-Decker AC Yatri (Uday) Express, a special class service for overnight journey that will ply on high-demand routes in July.

The train will be equipped with reclining chairs and will have 120-seater AC coach. It will also have large automatic food and tea/cold drink vending machines for passengers. The train will have the facility for providing pre-cooked hot food from food vending boxes in each coach.

BCCL

It will also boast of large LCD screens in every coach with Wi- Fi speaker system.

Uday service will ply on high-demand routes like Delhi- Lucknow and the fare will be lower than that of 3AC class in regular mail/express trains.

BCCL

The USP of the double-decker Uday is providing better passenger amenities in less than 3AC fare, said a senior Railway Ministry official.

Since the train will have 40% more carrying capacity than other trains, it will help the public transporter clear the rush in high-demand routes.

Though it will not have sleeper berths despite being an overnight service, measures have been taken to make the journey comfortable with many added facilities, the official said.

With PTI Inputs

Don't Miss 6.1 K SHARES 613 SHARES 36.7 K SHARES 40 K SHARES 26.6 K SHARES