24 CRPF Jawans Martyred AsAmbush Them In Chhattisgarh's Sukma, CM Raman Singh Calls Emergency Meeting
24 CRPF Jawans Martyred AsAmbush Them In Chhattisgarh, CM Raman Singh Calls Emergency Meeting
24 CRPF Jawans Martyred AsAmbush Them In Chhattisgarh's Sukma, CM Raman Singh Calls Emergency Meeting 24 CRPF were today killed in a deadly ambush by Naxals in the Sukma area of Chhattisgarh. Sukma Additional SP Jitendra Shukla said 11 CRPF jawans were martyred and six others injured. The Naxals’ encounter with the 74 battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) occurred at Kala Pathar near Chintagufa in Sukma, touted to be the worst Maoist violence-affected district. Jawans injured in CRPF-Naxals encounter in Chhattisgarh's Sukma shifted to hospital in Raipur. pic.twitter.com/6x5zZKANVy MoS Home Hansraj Ahir will visit Raipur today in the wake of Naxal attack that claimed the life of 24 CRPF personnel (File Pic) pic.twitter.com/MIjOFcxCQY Naxals laid an ambush for the patrolling CRPF batallion which was supporting road construction work when they were attacked. Around 50 naxals attacked the party. As per the reports, the gunbattle lasted for over an hour.  Jawans’ arms were also looted. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh also called an emergency meeting.

24 CRPF were today killed in a deadly ambush by Naxals in the Sukma area of Chhattisgarh.

Sukma Additional SP Jitendra Shukla said 11 CRPF jawans were martyred and six others injured.

The Naxals’ encounter with the 74 battalion of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) occurred at Kala Pathar near Chintagufa in Sukma, touted to be the worst Maoist violence-affected district.

Jawans injured in CRPF-Naxals encounter in Chhattisgarh's Sukma shifted to hospital in Raipur. pic.twitter.com/6x5zZKANVy — ANI (@ANI_news) April 24, 2017

MoS Home Hansraj Ahir will visit Raipur today in the wake of Naxal attack that claimed the life of 24 CRPF personnel (File Pic) pic.twitter.com/MIjOFcxCQY — ANI (@ANI_news) April 24, 2017

Naxals laid an ambush for the patrolling CRPF batallion which was supporting road construction work when they were attacked.

Around 50 naxals attacked the party.

As per the reports, the gunbattle lasted for over an hour. Jawans’ arms were also looted.

Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh also called an emergency meeting.