Jimmy Butler Rips Marcus Smart for 'Acting Tough' With Him: 'He's Not About That Life'
Jimmy Butler Rips Marcus Smart for 'Acting Tough' With Him: 'He's Not About That Life'
The post-game interviews following NBA playoff games this season have been entertaining to say the least. From Grizzlies coach David Fizdale’s now-legendary "Take that for data!" rant last week to Russell Westbrook ’s verbal altercation with an Oklahoma City columnist following a game on Sunday night, there has been no shortage of fireworks during post-game press conferences during the first round of the 2017 NBA Playoffs. Bulls star Jimmy Butler added to them on Sunday night after Chicago’s loss to the Celtics. During Game 4 of the Bulls/Celtics series, Butler and Boston guard Marcus Smart were involved in a confrontation on the court after Smart shoved Butler. Words were exchanged between the two players and tensions were high between the two teams. Jimmy Butler just went all the way in on Marcus Smart pic.twitter.com/GMlmzsXvoS But it seems Butler isn’t buying into Smart’s tough guy act. While speaking with reporters after the game, he referred to Smart as a "great actor" and went as far as to say that he doesn’t think Smart is "about that life." He suggested that Smart not get into it with him again when the Bulls and Celtics play Game 5 on Wednesday. Jimmy Butler and Marcus Smart get into it. 👀   pic.twitter.com/5yvBaO6xwt "He’s a great actor, acting tough, that’s what he does—but I don’t think he’s about that," Butler said. "And I’m the wrong guy to get in my face. So he needs to take it somewhere else because I’m not the one for that…We’re not gonna sit here and get in each other’s faces. Like I said, he’s not about that life. Calm it down." Will Smart listen to Butler? Ha. Oh, he’ll hear what he said. But we wouldn’t expect him to actually take Butler’s advice, and if anything, it’ll only make Game 5 that much more intense.

The post-game interviews following NBA playoff games this season have been entertaining to say the least. From Grizzlies coach David Fizdale’s now-legendary "Take that for data!" rant last week to Russell Westbrook’s verbal altercation with an Oklahoma City columnist following a game on Sunday night, there has been no shortage of fireworks during post-game press conferences during the first round of the 2017 NBA Playoffs.

Bulls star Jimmy Butler added to them on Sunday night after Chicago’s loss to the Celtics. During Game 4 of the Bulls/Celtics series, Butler and Boston guard Marcus Smart were involved in a confrontation on the court after Smart shoved Butler. Words were exchanged between the two players and tensions were high between the two teams.

Jimmy Butler just went all the way in on Marcus Smart pic.twitter.com/GMlmzsXvoS — Kenny Ducey (@KennyDucey) April 24, 2017

But it seems Butler isn’t buying into Smart’s tough guy act. While speaking with reporters after the game, he referred to Smart as a "great actor" and went as far as to say that he doesn’t think Smart is "about that life." He suggested that Smart not get into it with him again when the Bulls and Celtics play Game 5 on Wednesday.

Jimmy Butler and Marcus Smart get into it. 👀



pic.twitter.com/5yvBaO6xwt — NBA SKITS (@NBA_Skits) April 23, 2017

"He’s a great actor, acting tough, that’s what he does—but I don’t think he’s about that," Butler said. "And I’m the wrong guy to get in my face. So he needs to take it somewhere else because I’m not the one for that…We’re not gonna sit here and get in each other’s faces. Like I said, he’s not about that life. Calm it down."

Will Smart listen to Butler? Ha. Oh, he’ll hear what he said. But we wouldn’t expect him to actually take Butler’s advice, and if anything, it’ll only make Game 5 that much more intense.