President Trump to hold rally in Pennsylvania on night of White House Correspondents Dinner
President Trump to hold rally on night of White House Correspondents Dinner
Shares               President Trump, who previously announced that he would not be attending the White House Correspondents Dinner next Saturday night, said today that he will instead hold a rally for supporters that night in Pennsylvania. The president announced the rally in a tweet on Saturday.  Next Saturday night I will be holding a BIG rally in Pennsylvania. Look forward to it!  The rally will take place at 7:30 p.m. the Pennsylvania Farm Show complex and Expo Center in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. In addition to the president's absence at the correspondents dinner, no members of the White House staff are planning to attend either. Shares                  President Trump to hold rally on night of White House Correspondents Dinner   Russia investigations on the Hill: Where things stand   Ivanka Trump makes debut foreign trip   ANALYSIS: Trump's impact exceeds accomplishments in first 100 days   What to expect for President Trump's last week of his first 100 days   'Shattered' authors: Bill Clinton pushed for different tone in Hillary's campaign   After controversial Hawaii comment, Sessions says 'nobody has a sense of humor'   California Attorney General: 'We're ready' to fight Trump administration over sanctuary cities   Sessions, unlike Trump, says DREAMers are 'subject to being deported'   'This Week' Transcript 4-23-17: Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Xavier Becerra   The Pences spend last day in Sydney sightseeing   Trump at 100 days: 96 percent of his voters say they'd do it again (POLL)   Government funding, health care top agenda as Congress returns   New Orleans to take down Confederate statues   US Defense Sec'y Mattis in Afghanistan to discuss war needs   Power Ranger window washers thrill kid patients at hospital   4-year-old boy has meltdown over haircut before realizing it will grow back   5 dates to fly for cheaper summer airfare   Soccer jerseys show off family's co-parenting skills   Crafty corgi owners transform retro TV into chic dog bed   Mom launches Mustard Challenge after losing daughter to cancer   Firefighters throw surprise baby shower for woman who lost apartment in fire   Teen battling cancer decides to 'take control,' shaves head before chemo

President Trump, who previously announced that he would not be attending the White House Correspondents Dinner next Saturday night, said today that he will instead hold a rally for supporters that night in Pennsylvania.

The president announced the rally in a tweet on Saturday.

Next Saturday night I will be holding a BIG rally in Pennsylvania. Look forward to it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 22, 2017

The rally will take place at 7:30 p.m. the Pennsylvania Farm Show complex and Expo Center in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

In addition to the president's absence at the correspondents dinner, no members of the White House staff are planning to attend either.