Frank Ocean Premieres New Version of "Slide on Me" f/ Young Thug
Frank Ocean Premieres New Version of "Slide on Me" f/ Young Thug
Very early Monday morning, Frank Ocean hit Apple Music with a new episode of his Beats 1 radio show . Tucked into the latest episode was a new version of Ocean's track "Slide on Me" featuring Young Thug , which was promptly ripped: The full episode will have an encore airing later Monday, at which point "Slide on Me" will be made available for on-demand streaming: Hear Frank Ocean's #blondedRADIO 005 again in less than 1 hour on Beats 1. Audio on Demand coming soon. https://t.co/rEvIkly8lf  pic.twitter.com/yhkDuDZQA5 The new version of "Slide on Me" follows the release of two versions of "Lens," both of which premiered on Sunday. One version features Travis Scott, who was just announced as the opener on Kendrick Lamar's upcoming Damn tour . The playlist for Sunday's show also included cuts from Playboi Carti, Schoolboy Q, Lil Uzi Vert, and Ezro. @trvisXX  @Beats1 🔥🔥 Ocean's was released last August as an Apple Music exclusive, just one day ahead of the debut of his album. —which was intentionally not submitted for Grammy consideration— opened at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 and featured collaborations with Pharrell Williams, James Blake, and Kanye West. In a Tumblr post in February, Ocean addressed comments made by Grammys producer Ken Ehrlich and writer David Wild. "In reality, I actually wanted to participate in honoring Prince on the show but then I figured my best tribute to that man's legacy would be to continue to be myself out here and to be successful," Ocean wrote . "Winning a TV awards doesn't christen me successful. It took me some time to learn that."

Very early Monday morning, Frank Ocean hit Apple Music with a new episode of his Beats 1 radio show Blonded Radio. Tucked into the latest episode was a new version of Ocean's Endless track "Slide on Me" featuring Young Thug, which was promptly ripped:

The full episode will have an encore airing later Monday, at which point "Slide on Me" will be made available for on-demand streaming:

Hear Frank Ocean's #blondedRADIO 005 again in less than 1 hour on Beats 1. Audio on Demand coming soon. https://t.co/rEvIkly8lf pic.twitter.com/yhkDuDZQA5 — Beats 1 (@Beats1) April 24, 2017

The new version of "Slide on Me" follows the release of two versions of "Lens," both of which premiered on Blonded Radio Sunday. One version features Travis Scott, who was just announced as the opener on Kendrick Lamar's upcoming Damn tour. The playlist for Sunday's show also included cuts from Playboi Carti, Schoolboy Q, Lil Uzi Vert, and Ezro.

Ocean's Endless was released last August as an Apple Music exclusive, just one day ahead of the debut of his Blonde album. Blonde—which was intentionally not submitted for Grammy consideration—opened at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 and featured collaborations with Pharrell Williams, James Blake, and Kanye West.

In a Tumblr post in February, Ocean addressed comments made by Grammys producer Ken Ehrlich and writer David Wild. "In reality, I actually wanted to participate in honoring Prince on the show but then I figured my best tribute to that man's legacy would be to continue to be myself out here and to be successful," Ocean wrote. "Winning a TV awards doesn't christen me successful. It took me some time to learn that."