Spitting Image to make a comeback with new HBO series
Spitting Image to make a comeback with new HBO series
BO, the US network behind series including Game of Thrones, Veep and The Sopranos, is reportedly working on bringing a new series of Spitting Image to television. According to the Sun , the revived programme will be aimed at a US audience, but is likely to air in the UK on Sky. “There has never been more material for political satirists," a source told the Sun. “It’s a huge project by HBO. Preparation on the famous faces has already begun.” The satirical sketch show, in which puppets made by Roger Law and Peter Fluck lampooned politicians and celebrities, originally ran from 1984 to 1996. Harry Enfield, Steve Coogan, John Culshaw and Chris Barrie were among the impressionists who provided the puppets' voices. TV had planned to revive Spitting Image in 2006, but the plans were shelved following a falling-out with Roger Law, after the network made puppets of Ant and Dec for a documentary without Law's permission. 2015 sketch show Newzoids was billed as something of a spiritual successor to Spitting Image, although it failed to capture the public's imagination to the extent of it's predecessor which, at its peak, regularly attracted audiences of 15 million. John Lloyd, co-creator of Spitting Image, suggested to the Telegraph last year that the time seemed right for a revival . “ Donald Trump would have been a gift to Spitting Image ,” he told Julia Llewellyn Smith. “Watching him, you do think you’re watching the Muppets. It doesn’t seem to matter what he says, it doesn’t make any difference.” ere the show to return, Lloyd said he thought it would do “a very good public service”. “It informed people in an entertaining way about what was actually going on and it gave people a way of laughing at the situation, rather than going out in the street and burning a car, so I think it reduced the amount of civil disorder,” he said. loyd also revealed he had tried to revive the show, but failed to secure funding: “We did a study and worked out that we needed about £5 million before we even had a single frame on air. "When we started it was a very obscure show that gradually built up and we made more puppets every week, but now we’d have to start where we left off [it ended after 18 series in 1996], which means thousands of puppets, and you need a broadcaster with that kind of money. I can’t think of one… Though Channel 4 bought Bake Off for £75 million – I only need £7 million!”

HBO, the US network behind series including Game of Thrones, Veep and The Sopranos, is reportedly working on bringing a new series of Spitting Image to television.

According to the Sun, the revived programme will be aimed at a US audience, but is likely to air in the UK on Sky.

“There has never been more material for political satirists," a source told the Sun.

“It’s a huge project by HBO. Preparation on the famous faces has already begun.”

The satirical sketch show, in which puppets made by Roger Law and Peter Fluck lampooned politicians and celebrities, originally ran from 1984 to 1996. Harry Enfield, Steve Coogan, John Culshaw and Chris Barrie were among the impressionists who provided the puppets' voices.